283 THE MUSGLP]S AND FASCIyE OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. ^-OO^OOo The scapular or lonfj head arises by a slender ten- don from the axillary margin of the scapula and from the infra-glenoid tubercle. It is in close proximity to the shoulder-joint, and passes downward between the Teres Major and Teres Minor muscles to be in- serted on the posterior surface of the aponeurosis of the muscle. The external head arises tendinously from the pos- terior surface of the neck of the humerus below the great tuberosity, and by fleshy fibres from the poste- rior surface above the spiral groove and from the ex- ternal intermuscular septum. Its fibres are inserted into the npper part of the external surface of the aponeurosis. Some of the fibres contribute to form the inner head. The internal head arises from the posterior surface of the humerus below tlie spiral groove, and from the internal intermuscular septum. Its fibres are inserted on the deep anterior surface of the aponeurosis. Some of the fibres of this head are nearly horizontal. The fibres of the ajwneurosis converge a short dis- tance above the elbow-joint to form the tendon, which is thick and massive, and which is inserted into the olecranon at its upper and posterior parts, and into an oblique ridge separating tlie posterior and external surfaces of the process. Use.—To extend the ulna, and consequently the forearm. In this act the humeral attachments are chiefly efficient. ' The long head can fix the shoulder- joint, thus aiding the Supra-Spinatus. It aids feebly in depressing the raised humerus. The long head tends to support the shoulder-joint posteriorly as the long head of the Biceps in a greater degree supports it anteriorly. Under the name of the Subanconeus, Theile de- scribes a pair of muscular slips, which arise respec- tively from the epitrochlea and epicondyle, and which are inserted upon the capsule of the elbow-joint.—A fibrous band is described by Holbertsma extending from the scapular head near its origin to the Latis- sinius Dorsi. Nerve. — The muscle is supplied by the niusculo- spiral nerve. Variations in the Triceps muscle consist of additional slips of origin from the coracoid process, from the shaft of the humerus, and from the capsule of tlie slioulder-joint. Botli fibrous and muscular accessions may be received from the Latissimus Dorsi, Teres Major, and Anconeus. The fibres of the external head may be continuous with those of the Extensor Carpi Ulnaris—an arrangement constantly seen in some quadrupeds. THE ANCONEUS. This muscle appears to be a continuation of the outer head of the Triceps. It is a small slip placed to the outer side of the elbow-joint. Arising from the epicondyle of the humerus, its fibres pass downward in a radiating manner to be inserted into the outer surface of the olecranon, or to extend thence to the upper third of the shaft of the ulna. The upper fibres are nearly horizontal, while the lower fibres are oblique. Use.—The Anconeus muscle assists the Triceps in extending the forearm. Nerve. — The muscle receives a branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. The Variations of the Anconeus consist in fusing witii the Triceps, in sending an accession to the Extensor Carpi Ul- naris, in receiving an accession from the Latissimus Dorsi, in splitting into two parts, and in sendmg a fascicle to bridge the ulnar nerve. The Pronator and Flexor jMuscles of the Forearm. The Pronator and Flexor muscles of the forearm embrace— The Pronator Radii Teres. The Flexor Carpi Radialis. The Pal maris Longus. The Flexor Carpi Ulnaris. The Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. The Flexor Profundus Digitorum. The Lumbricales. The Flexor Longus PoUicis. The Piouator Quadratus. tue pronator radii teres. This muscle arises by two heads: one from the anterior surface of the epitrochlea in common with the intermuscular septum separating the Palmaris Longus and the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum, and by a slip from the aponeurosis of the forearm; the other by a slip from the inner aspect of the coronoid pro- cess of the ulna. The median nerve passes between the heads. The muscle passes downward and out- ward, and is inserted into the radius below the oblique line, in close relation to the line of radial origin of the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. Its origin is in common witli tlie flexor mass arising for the most part from the septum above described. The inser- tion is tendinous; the inner border in part is tendinous. The ulnar head is often fleshy, but has been described as tendinous.