313 TEE MUSCLES OF THE INFEEIOR EXTREMITY. c-OO^OCXs anterior border of the fibula, from the external tuberosity of the tibia, from the fascia of the leg, from the septum between the muscle and the Tibialis Anticus, and from the septum between the muscle and the Peroneus Longus and the Peroneus Brevis. An important accession is secured from the interosse- ous membrane. The tendon passes beneath the annu- lar lio-ament, sometimes in a sheath in common with that of the Extensor Proprius Pollicis, but oftener in a separate compartment, to reach the dorsum of the foot, where it divides into four tendons which are in- serted on the dorsal aponeuroses of the second, third, fourth, and fifth toes. Each of the tendinous expan- sions receives the tendons of insertion of the Interossei and Lumbricales muscles. Use.—To extend the four outer toes and to abduct and to flex the foot. Acting with the Tibialis Anticus the muscle flexes the foot. The foot is flexed and adducted, or abducted, according to the action of the other muscles. When the Gastrocnemius and the Soleus are atrophied, the Extensor Longus Digitorum, acting in conjunction with the Peroneus Longus, barely brings the foot to a right angle with the leg.' Nerves.—The muscle is supplied by numerous small nerves from the anterior tibial nerve ; these for the most part pierce the Extensor Proprius Pollicis for the purpose. A separate long nerve from the same source supplies the deep surface of the muscle. At its origin the muscle is fusiform at the anterior border, but soon becomes penniform—the tendon lying at tlie ante- rior border—and is compressed laterally—Eacli tendon splits into three slips at the base of the first phalanx. The median slip is inserted into the lateral edge of the second phalanx; the remaining slips unite upon the dorsal surface of the second phalanx, and are inserted upon the lateral border of the third phalanx.^ The tendon of the Extensor Longus Digitorum for the second and fourth toes is free at the lower tiiird of the leg. It can be traced within the muscle as far as the upper fifth. The tendons for the fifth toe and filth metatarsal bone (Peroneus Tertius) are distinct from the abo\e and less extensive. Each of the tendons, excepting the last, is joined laterally by a tendon of the Extensor Brevis Digitorum Two bursas are sometimes seen in connection with the Ex- tensor Longus Digitorum, one lying beneath the annular ' Ducheniie, Pliysiologie des Mouvements. 2 The peroneus tertius.—Under this head some authors give the following arrangement of fibres of the Extensor Longus Digitorum : This so-called muscle arises from the distal portion of the median surface and the anterior border of the fibula. The tendon becomes free beneath the annular ligament, and is inserted on the proximal end of the fourth metatarsal bone, a slij) being received on the fifth. 40 ligament at the lateral edge of the tendons, and another between the tendons and the head of the astragalus.—The Extensor Longus Digitorum and the Extensor Brevis Digi- torum are often rudimentary, or in a state of fatty degenera- tion, in congenital talipes varus. Variations Partial longitudinal cleavage may separate the fibular and the tibial slips—Tiie remaining variations pertain to tiie tendon of insertion. A tendon may be inserted on the first toe. A slip may pass to the first phalanx of the second toe, and to the fifth metatarsal bone. Slips may be derived from the Flexor Brevis Digitorum and from the Pero- neus Brevis. The tendon to the fifth toe may be duplicated. Tlie muscle may arise from the fibula for its entire length. Tlie so-called Peroneus Tertius may fuse with the proper Extensor Longus Digitorum. It may be absent, when tlie latter muscle takes its place. The slip to the fifth toe may be absent. The muscle may send a slip to the Extensor Brevis Digitorum. Relations To the lateral side is the Peroneus Longus. To the median side, near the proximal third of the leg, lie the Tibialis Anticus, and in the middle third the Tibialis Anticus and the Extensor Proprius Pollicis. The latter underlies the Extensor Longus Digitorum in great part as well. At the ankle the tendons overlie the anterior tibial vessels and nerve. The tendon of the Extensor Proprius Pollicis lies to the median side. On the dorsum of the foot the tendons overlie the Extensor Brevis Digitorum. THE EXTENSOR BREVIS DIGITORUM PEDIS. This muscle arises from the upper and outer sur- faces of the anterior portion of the calcaneum. It receives an accession from the anterior annular liga- ment. It crosses the dorsum of the foot obliquely, and divides into four slips which end in delicate tendons and are inserted into the four inner toes. The slip to the great toe is larger than the others, and its tendon is attached to the proximal extremity of the first phalanx. The remaining tendons are in- serted into the lateral borders of the tendons of the Extensor Longus Digitorum. A bursa lies near the sinus tarsi beneath the muscle. Use.—To extend the toes. Tlie muscle is secon- dary in its action to the Extensor Longus Digitoruni. Its oblique direction from without inward counteracts the inward traction of the long extensor, the tendons 'of which lie on the dorsum of the foot obliquely from within outward. Relations.—The groove for the Peroneus Brevis lies be- hind the line of origin of the muscle. Nerve.—It is supplied by the anterior tibial nerve. Some of the fibres of origin can be traced in the sinus tarsi to the interosseous astragalo-calcaneal ligament. Otiier fibres may arise from the superior calcaneo-cuboid lig'ameut.