289 THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE UPPEE EXTREMITY. ooO^O<x: by the same sheath, and lie in the' outer of two grooves at the distal end of the dorsal aspect of the radius; and, together with the Supinator Longus and lesser radial ex- tensor are crossed at an acute angle by the Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis and the Extensor Primi Internodii Polli- cis. A bursa is seen beneath its insertion upon the second metacarpal bone. Variations Among the variations of the muscle may be mentioned its fusion with the short radial extensor, or the reception of a slip from that muscle.* It may undergo partial cleavage, by which the tendon is duplicated. THE EXTENSOR CARPI RADIALIS BREVIOR. This muscle arises tendinously from the rough tri- angular space at the distal end of the epicondyle of the humerus, and by fleshy fibres from au intermuscular septum between it and the Extensor Communis Digi- torum. The muscle passes downward to terminate in a tendon whicli widens slightly to be inserted on the dorsal aspect of the .proximal ends of the second and the third metacarpal bones, a thin fibrous expan- sion being sent to the dorsum of the fourth. Use.—To directly extend the carj^us and incline it laterally. Nerve.—The muscle is supplied by a branch of the musculo-spiral. The muscle is tendinous at tlie distal half anteriorly, and at the proximal half posteriorly. The tendon grooves tlie pyramidal projection of the proximal end of the metacarpal bone in such a manner as to support tlie articulation of tliis bone with the trapezoid and the os magnum. Relations.—In front, on the lateral border of the muscle, lie the Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior, and in part dis- tally the Supinator Longus. On the median border, i. e., along the line of the radius, the Supinator Brevis, the radial border of tlie Pronator Radii Teres, and the radial nerve. To the dorsal aspect is tlie Extensor Communis Digitorum. ■—The muscle last named is directly continuous with the Extensor, as the two muscles lie in contact with the Supi- nator Brevis. A bursa commonly lies between the muscle and the Supin- ator Brevis, and anotlier between the tendon and the joint uniting the second and third metacarpal bones The belly, above, apparently forms a continuation with the Su- pinator Longus An extension of the thin fascia from this muscle passes inward, covering in the upper portion of the ' Welcker (Zeitsclir. fiir Anat. und Entwickelungsgesch., 1876, 173) proposes to call all slips of muscular fibre passing between two muscles of tlie same group conjuyaie fasciculi, since they seem to yoke or bind the two muscles. Conjugate fascicles indicate that tlie process of diflferentiation of two muscles from a, generalized ancestor has been imperfectly accomplished. They will sometimes be found present in a muscle like the Semimembranosus of the raccoon, when the two main bundles united by them are not sepa- rately named. 37 Supinator Brevis, and is continuous in front of the elbow- joint, where it is lost in the capsule. Variations The muscle presents but few variations. It may undergo longitudinal cleavage, and have as many as three tendons of insertion; the supernumerary slips may pass to the second and third metacarpal bones. It may be absent. Its origin may be intimately associated with the external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint, THE EXTENSOR COMMUNIS DIGITORUM. The Extensor Communis Digitorum muscle arises tendinously from the epicondyle of the humerus in com- mon with other extensor muscles, and from the deep fascia of the forearm ; also from an intermuscular septum between it and the Extensor Carpi Radialis Erevior, on the radial side, and another between it and the Extensor Minimi Digiti on the ulnar side. The muscle divides a short distance below the middle of the forearm into four tendons, which pass beneath the annular ligament, inclosed in a common synovial sheath (in common also with the Extensor ludicis), and are inserted into the backs of the phalanges of the four outer fingers. The tendons of the second, third, and fourth fingers are connected by flattened bands. A special union exists between the tendon of the fourth finger and that of the Extensor Minimi Digiti. Use.—To extend the fingers, notably the third pha- lanx on the second, and to aid in the lateral motions of the fingers. The extension of the first phalanges places the second and third phalanges in a favorable position for apposition of the finger tips with the extremity of the thumb. Nerve.—The muscle is supplied by a branch of the musculo-spiral. One or more minute fibrous bands, called vincula, pass between each tendon and the phalanges.—The muscle is thin and tendinous at its origin The tendon for the third finger is the most powerful. Relations The muscle is free upon the posterior surface of the forearm. Beneath it lie the Supinator Brevis, tlie extensors of the thumb, and the Extensor Indicis. To the lateral side, above, is the Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior; below, are the Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior and the ex- tensors of the thumb. To the median side is the Extensor Minimi Digiti. The tendons are arranged in pairs at the annular liga- ment, the two central tendons, and the slips for the fourth and fifth fingers remaining together. The outer fasciculus, lower down, is placed in front of the middle fasciculus. The external and internal tendons answer to the interosseous spaces, which they cross obliquely in order to assume a posi- tion behind the liead of the metacarpal bones to which they belong. The manner of insertion of each tendon on the phalanges is as follows: The tendon, as it passes the meta-