AND FASCIA. 306 THE MUSCLES neatli the Iliacus, which descended into the thigh behind the tendon, and thence behind the femoral vessels in front of the hip-joint and toward the inner part of the thigh. In rare instances, the pus, after being guided by the common tendon its entire length, passes to the outer side of it, and collects beneath the Tensor Vaginae Femoris and the anterior portion of the Gluteus Medius muscle. Instead of following the course of the muscle be- yond the pelvis, the pus may rupture the sheath and empty into the abdominal cavity, as in the case men- tioned above. It may, indeed, rupture in more than one direction, pus passing downward behind the muscle as well as anteriorly into the abdomen. Mr. T. Holmes' reports a lesion of this kind in a boy eight years old. Contracture of the Psoas may be excited by the presence of pus either within or alongside the mus- cle. In perinephritic abscess the value of this sign was determined byBowditch;^ while Benjamin Lee^ invited attention to it in psoas abscess pointing at the groin. In contracture the patient inclines the body for- ward when standing, and thus relieves the weight of the body upon the affected side. The heel is slightly raised, the toes alone touching the ground. Under these circumstances the vertebral column in the lumbar region is deeply curved forward, but with- out projection above, or it inclines from the affected side. The bursa beneath the tendon of the Psoas and the Iliacus, when inflamed, may counterfeit disease of the hip-joint. In a case occurring under the care of the writer, an obscure flattened swelling existed over the joint, associated with local pain, lameness, and wasting of the affected limb. The swelling was be- lieved to be due to an inflammation within the bursa. THE ILIACUS INTERNUS. The Iliacus Internus muscle arises from that por- tion of the iliac fossa which is bounded in front by 3 Med. Times and Gazette, Dec. 1862, 630. Boston Med. Surg. Journ., May 4, 18G8. 5 Trans. Med. Soc. Penna. 1876, 539. a line from the anterior superior spinous process to the notch beneath the anterior inferior spinous pro- cess, as well as from the anterior two-thirds of the inner lip of the crest. It also arises from the sacro- iliac juncture, from the ilio-lumbar ligament and base of the sacrum, as Avell as from the anterior surface of the capsule of the hip-joint. From this extensive surface the fibres converge to be inserted, while still for the most part fleshy, into the lateral border of the tend(m of the Psoas Magnus. It occupies the groove between the anterior inferior spinous process and the ilio-pectineal line. The fibres at this point are somewhat twisted. The lower ones have a dis- tinct insertion into the trochanter minor. Beneath the common tendons of the two muscles there is a large bursa, which may communicate with the hip- joint. Use.—See functions of Psoas Magnus. Nerves.—These are derived from the main trunk of the anterior crural nerve. Variations—Tlie lowest fibres are sometimes separate from tlie main muscle. They then arise from the anterior inferior spinous process and the anterior portion of the capsule, and are inserted into the trochanter minor The bursa is the largest in the body. It is oftener found to communicate with the joint in the aged than in the young. A second smaller one, bursa iliaca, is found beneath tlie tendon. THE SARTORIUS. The Sartorius muscle arises from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and from a small portion of the adjacent bone. The long rib- bon-shaped muscle passes downward and inward, crossing the front and gaining the inner side of the thigh, along which it descends nearly vertically on a line with the posterior margin of the internal femoral condyle. At this point it becomes tendinous, and, crossing the knee-joint, turns slightly forward, and is inserted by a broad thin tendon on the inner side of the head of the tibia and for a short distance below it. With the tendons of the Gracilis and the Scmi- tendinosus, the Sartorius forms the broad aponeurotic sheet on the proximal inner surface of the leg; this sheet has received from French writers the name of palte (.Voie. EXPLANATION OF PLATE LIV. Fig. 1. The muscles of the anterior surface of tlie thigh. Fig. 2. The muscles of the buttock and those of the posterior surface of the tliigh. Fig. 3. The muscles on the median surface of the thio^li.