THE MUSCLES AND FASCIJ2. 312 =00^00= ■ that the median border is somewhat elevated. In conjunction with the Extensor Loiigus Digitorum and the Extensor Proprius Pollicis the muscle flexes the foot only. In the act of riding, the Tibialis Anticus assists in maintaining the foot in the stirrup. The muscle is antagonized by the Peroneus Longus. Nerve.—It is supplied by the anterior tibial nerve. The Tibialis Anticus is greatly compressed from side to side, being widest at the superficies of" the leg and narrow at the interosseous membrane A fibrous slip passes from the tendon of insertion to strengthen the ligaments at the me- dian border of the foot A bursa lies beneath the tendon of insertion. Remarks.—In talipes varus the tendons of the Tibialis Anticus, and of the muscles which extend the toes as they lie in front of the ankle-joint, incline to the median side of the leg; and the tendon of the Tibialis Anticus as it crosses the joint is placed in a marked degree to the same side. In pronounced cases the tendon passes obliquely downward across the inner malleolus and inclines backward toward the first cuneiform bone.—In the adult, the subject of talipes varus^ the tendon of this muscle passes obliquely downward and backward on the surface of the inner malleolus, and takes a curved direction inward and backward to its insertion. As the tendon crosses the ankle-joint it passes in an oblique direc- tion from the inner malleolus behind rather than in front of the process. This, in the judgment of Mr. Adams, is an exceedingly important point, since the tendon in a normal foot is found below and in front of the inner malleolus. L. A. Sayre' found atrophy of the Tibialis Anticus associated with contracture of the peroneal muscles. Variations The muscle may undergo partial cleavage. The tendon may be i-arely inserted into tlie neck of the as- tragalus, but more frequently into the first metatarsal bone. A slip may join the Extensor Brevis Digitorum Pedis, or the Extensor Proprius Pollicis Pedis. A fascicle may be separated from the anterior portion of the muscle, which (or a fibrous slip from its tendon) is inserted either into the ' Orthopsedic Surgery aud Diseases of the Joints, 64. annular ligament or the fascia dorsalis pedis. This slip is probably related to tiie more anterior of the two anterior tibial muscles of Pjchidna. Relations—In the leg the Tibialis Anticus lies upon the tibia, upon the interosseous membrane, upon the proximal portion of the Extensor Proprius Pollicis, and to a less extent upon the Extensor Longus Digitorum. To the median side are the tibia, and to the lateral the Extensor Proprius Polli- cis. Between the muscle and the Extensor Proprius Pollicis are the anterior tibial vessels and nerve. At the ankle the tendon lies directly beneath the integument to the median side of the anterior tibial vessels and nerve. THE EXTENSOR PROPRIUS POLLICIS PEDIS. The Extensor Proprius Pollicis Pedis mirscle arises from the middle two-fourths of the narrow anterior border of the fibula, but secures most of the fibres from the interosseous membrane. Its fascicles are directed obliquely forward and downward, and the tendon, passing beneath the annular ligament in a distinct compartment, is inserted into the second pha- lanx of the first toe. Use.—To extend the first toe. The muscle is distinctly penniform, the tendon lying ante- riorly. Variations The muscle may undergo longitudinal cleav- age. It may send a slip to the Extensor Communis Digi- torum. A delicate fascicle, as a rule, is sent from the inner border of the tendon, at its insertion, to be inserted on the base of the first plialanx of the great toe at the side of the metatarso-phalangeal joint. A bursa commonly underlies the tendon at the instep. Nerve.—The nerves are derived from the anterior tibial nerve. Relations.—The muscle lies in a sulcus between the Tibi- alis Anticus and the Extensor Longus Digitorum. In front of the ankle it crosses the anterior tibial vessels and nerve. On the dorsum of the foot it overlies some of the deeper veins, and, along the median border, the dorsal ligaments. EXTENSOR LONGUS DIGITORUM PEDIS. The Extensor Longus Digitorum Pedis muscle arises from the liead and the proximal three-fourths of the EXPLANATION OF PLATE LV. Fig. \. The muscles on the lateral and anterior surfaces of the leg and the foot. Fig. 2. The muscles of the ham and the posterior surface of the leg. Fig. 3. The same, showing a deeper layer of the muscles of the leg. Fig. 4. An additional study of the muscles on the median surface of the thigh.