THE MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR OOOgJO<x= EXTREMITY. 315 septum between the Extensor Communis Digitoram and the Peroneus Tertius on the median side, and by a few unimportant fascicles from the Flexor Longus PoUicis on the lateral. The muscle passes downward, and becomes entirely tendinous at the level of the external malleolus, although the broad stout tendon extends partially concealed higher up the leg; it passes behind the external malleolus in company with the Peroneus Longus muscle to gain the outer side of the calcaneum, on the lateral surface of which it lies in a shallow oblique groove above a corresponding groove for the Peroneus Longus muscle, and is in- serted upon the lateral process of the fifth metatarsal bone. A tencKnous slip passes from the tendon of insertion to the base of the first phalanx of the fifth toe. Others ordinarily join the rudimentary fascia on the dorsum of the fool, or unite with the tendons of the extensors of the toes. The sheatlis and tlie vincula at the outer side of the ankle are so stout that they naturally assist tlie tendons of tlie Peroneus Longus and Peroneus Brevis in supporting the ex- ternal lateral ligament. Use.—To abduct the foot. Acting together with the Peroneus Longus, it aids in pronation, and to- gether with the Tibialis Anticus in extension. Nerve.—The muscle is supplied by the musculo- cutaneous branch of the popliteal nerve. Variations.—Slips may join the Peroneus Longus and the Abductor Minimi Digiti. The tendinous slip to the fifth toe may be absent, or be compensatory with a slip from the Peroneus Tertius. The Muscles of the Posterior Region of the Leg and Foot. The muscles of the posterior region of the leg and foot include— The Gastrocnemius. The Soleus. The Plantaris. The Popliteus. t The Flexor Longus Digitorum Pedis. -N The Flexor Accessorius. ( The Lumbricales. The Flexor Longus Pollicis Pedis. The Tibialis Posticus. the gastrocnemius and soleus. The Gastrocnemius muscle arises tendiuouslv bv two heads from the femur, the larger inner head from above the inner condyle, and the outer head from above the lateral aspect of the outer. The two heads unite at the upper third of the leg, and are inserted by a broad aponeurosis upon the Soleus.^ The Soleus muscle arises from the posterior surface of the head of the fibula, from about the upper half of the outer border of the fibula, from the oblique line of the tibia, and from an arch of fibres which extend from the tibia to the head of the fibula. The muscle de- scends to form a massive tendon (tendo Achillis) about one and a half or two inches in length, which is inserted into the lower part of the tuberosity of the calcaneum. Use.—The Gastrocnemius and the Soleus extend the foot at the saine time that they produce a pivot movement in the ankle, to which is due the fact that the toes are carried inward and the heel outward; the outer border is at the same time depressed, and the foot is turned inward. The Gastrocnemius feebly flexes the leg on the thigh. AYhen the leg is flexed on the thigh the muscle can extend the foot. The muscle acts in harmony with the Soleus, and in atro- phy of this muscle is ineffective. When both muscles are atrophied the heel is depressed and the Peroneus Longus over-active. The action of the Gastrocnemius through its origin is to relax the capsule of the knee- joint. Nerve.—The Gastrocnemius is supplied by a num- ber of short nerves from the popliteal. Tlie Soleus is supplied at the popliteal space by a single long nerve from the same trunk, which, as it descends, overlies the Plantaris muscle, and by a second smaller nerve which arises from the posterior tibial nerve in the calf of the leg. Variations A sesamoid bone may be found in each of the two heads of the Gastrocnemius, but more commonly in the outer.^ It may undergo incomplete longitudinal or com- plete planal cleavage. It may receive an accessory slip from the Biceps, and a few slips from the capsule, and liave a third head from the femur or the capsule of the knee-joint. Variations in the Soleus embrace planal cleavage in the origin from the head of the fibula. It may not fuse with the Gastrocnemius, and, in such an instance, may be inserted, separately therefrom, into the tuberosity of the calcaneum.— A few slips, arising from the deep tibial fascia, may be in- serted into the inner side of the tendo Achillis, or pass to the annular ligament The origin from the oblique line is un- important; this line is chiefly occupied by the Flexor Longus Digitorum and the Popliteus. ' This union is not bi-pennifoi m, for no central tendon exists. It is composed of the expanded aponeurosis of the outer head which receives upon its superficies the fibres of the inner head. ^ For an elaborate study of tliese bones see W. Gruber, Meui. de FAcad. Imp. des Sciences. St. Petersbourg, 1876.