266 THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA, OOC^OOo The First Group of muscles includes tlie Erector Spinse and its subdivisions. THE ERECTOR SPINJi:. The Erector Spinae consists of two portions—a median and a lateral. The median portion is called the Longissimus Dorsi, and the lateral the Sacro- Lurabalis. The Longissimus Dorsi arises from the spines of the sacrum and the spines of the lumbar vertebree, as well as from the lower and back part of the sacrum. It is inserted by serrate slips into the posterior ends of the ribs (excepting the first and last) near their tubercles, and into the transverse processes of the lumbar ver- tebrae. , The Sacro-Lumbalis (more properly called the Ileo- Costalis) arises by fleshy fibres from the outer fifth of the crest of the ilium, and is inserted by serrate slips into the inferior border of each rib, near the angle. The subdivisions of the Erector Spinse embrace— The Spinalis Dorsi. y The Transversalis Cervicis. Splenius Capitis. Splenius Colli. Extensor Coccygis. Intertransversales. Rectus Posticus Major. Rectus Posticus Minor. Obliquus Superior. Obliquus Inferior. The Third Layer of the Serratus Posticus Superior, Serratus Posticus Inferior. The Fourth Layer of the Erector Spinse and its subdivisions The Fifth Layer of the Bemispinalis Dorsi. Semispinalis Colli. Multifidus Spinse. Rotatores Spinse (Supra Spinales). Interspinales. Hyrtl arranges the muscles into three groups according to their shapes : the Broad, the Long, and the Short. The Broad Muscles embrace the Trapezius. Serratus Posticus Superior. Latissimus Dorsi. Serratus Posticus Inferior. Rhomboideus. Splenius. Levator Anguli Scapula?. The Long Muscles embrace the Erector Spinse. Semispinalis Dorsi (Spinalis Cer- Complexus. vicis, Semispinalis Cervicis). Spinalis Dorsi. The Short Muscles embrace the Multifidus Spinse. Rectus Capitis Posticus Minor. Interspinales. Rectus Capitis Posticus Laterale. Intertransversales. Obliquus Capitis Minor. Rectus Capitis Posticus Major. Obliquus Capitis Major. Henle defines first a superficial group of sheath-like muscles pass- ing from the spinous processes outward. It includes the Trapezius, Rhomboideus, Latissimus Dorsi (with Teres Major), the two pos- terior Serrati, and Splenius. He includes in his second group all the remaining muscles. The Musculus Accessorius. The Ascendens Cervicis. The Spinalis Dorsi is a long narrow^ muscle some- times described as distinct from the Longissimus. It extends from the spines of the first two lumbar and the two lowest dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into from four to eight of the higher dorsal spines. Under the name of the Transversalis Cervicis the Longissimus sends a cervical slip from the transverse processes of the fourth and fifth dorsal vertebrae to the posterior tubercle of the transverse process of each of the cervical vertebra3 excepting the first and the seventh. The Transversalis Cervicis may secure slips of origin from the two lower cervical vertebrae. The Musculus Accessorius and Ascendens Cervicis are accessory cervical slips analogous to the Transver- salis Cervicis. They pass upward from the upper five or six ribs to the transverse processes of the third or the fourth cervical vertebra. Tlie Longissimus Dorsi is apparently united hy fibrous tissue to the crest of the ilium. It effects a slight union with the lumbar fascia. When the Erector Spinae is removed, the Posterior Inferior Serratus, and the deep layer of the aponeu- rosis are exposed. The latter is known as the pos- terior layer of the lumhar fascia. It extends from the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae between the last rib and the crest of the ilium. It affords fibres of attachment to the Longissimus Dorsi, and covers in the Quadratus Lumborum muscle. The anterior layer of the lumhar fascia is best seen from within the abdomen. It is in relation with the prevertebral region. It serves as the fascial covering of the anterior surface of the Quadratus Lumborum, and is continuous above with the ligavienta arcuata of the Diaphragm. Use.—When both act, to extend the spine. When one muscle acts separately, particularly when the Longissimus Dorsi contracts, to draw the vertebral column to one side. Variation The Erector Spinse is subject to slight and unimportant variations. The Vertebral Aponeuroses.—The Vertebral Apo- neuroses is the name given to a system of mem- branous layers attached to the vertebrte and serving to define the relations between the muscles of the back. When the skin of the lumbar region is re- moved, the superficial layer of the aponeurosis or dorso-lumbar fascia is exposed. This layer is a beauti- ful glistening membrane occupying the interval be- tween the sacral and lumbar spines and the crest of