THE MUSCLES AND FASCIiE OF THE PERINEUM. 827 filial region having boundaries dift'erent from those which have been named. The perineum of surgical anatomy is a triangular ■plane lying between an imaginary line connecting the ischial tuberosities posteriorly, and the root of the scrotum anteriorly. Laterally it is without exact limitation, unless the position of two imaginary lines passing from the ischial tuberosities to the root of the scrotum can be such, and is continuous with the median surfaces of the thighs. The gynecologist speaks of the perineum of the female as the superficies lying between the anus and the posterior angle of the vulva. The structures underlying it enter into the composition of the recto- vaginal septum. [b) The jjostei-ior permeum includes the region of the anus, and the spaces between the rectum and the ischial tuberosities. The first of these is commonly called the anal region, and the second the ischio-rectal fossa of each side. The anal reyion may be defined to be the space answering to the embrace of the Sphincter Ani muscle. The ischio-rectal fossa is the space between the Levator Ani muscle and the pelvic fascia covering the Obturator Intern us muscle of its own side. It is open beneath, where it communicates with the gluteal region. It is occupied by fat. 1. The Muscles of the Perineum. (See Plates illustrating the Genito Urinary Organs.) The muscles of the perineum are divided into a genito-urinary and an anal group. The Genito-Urinary group embraces— The Transversus Perinsei Superficialis. The Bulbo-Cavernosus. The Ischio-Cavernosus. The Transversus Perina3i Profundus. The Constrictor Urethrte. The Anal group embraces— The Sphincter Ani. The Levator Ani. The Ischio-Coccygeus. THE TRANSVERSUS PERIN^I SUPERFICIALIS MUSCLE. The Transversus Peri nasi Superficialis is a delicate and somewhat inconstant structure. It arises from the inner surface of the pubic arch, and is inserted together with its fellow of the opposite side at the perineal centre. The muscle lies beneath the deep layer of the su])erficial perineal fascia, and directly in front of the line of its uniun with the fascia propria. It is sometimes continuous by some of its fibres with the Sphincter Ani. Function.—Both muscles acting together tend to elevate the perineum. They are both active at the close of defecation (hence the name of Levator Ani Parvus sometimes given them) and of parturition. In the male they assist in the expulsion of semen by the elevation of the perineal tissues against the prostate gland and the bulb of the spongy body. Fiff. 81 A. Bnlho-cavernosns m-iscle. E. Tschio-cavernosns muscle, c. Transver- sus periuaei superficialis. d. Levator ani. E. (Jluteus maximus. u. Crua penis. H. Urethra, a. Transverse perineal artery. 6. Superficial perineal artery, c. Branch of sciatic artery. 1. Inferior hemorrhoidal nerve. 2, 3. Superficial perineal nerve. 4. Inferior pudendal nerve. THE BULBO-CAVERNOSUS MUSCLE. The Bulbo-Cavernosus muscle (Bulbo-Urethralis, Accelerator Urinpe, Ejaculator Seminis) surrounds the bulb of the urethra apparently as a single muscle, which is found on careful inspection to be divided by a raphe into two muscles. Each lateral portion or muscle arises not only from the raphe but from the perineal centre. It passes thence forward and out- ward by oblique fibres, and is inserted posteriorly into the triangular ligament, and anteriorly (by ascending between the crus and the bulb of the urethra) it is inserted upon the back of the spongy body. A few variable slips reach the dorsum of the penis where thev are continuous with the aponeurosis of that organ. Function.—In the unerccted penis the muscle assists in voluntarily expelling the urine from the urethra at the end of micturition. In the erected organ it aids in maintaining the erected state chiefly by the compression of the veins of the bulb, and less couistantly by the tension of the aponeurosis of the