292 THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA. ^.OO^COO ■ serted on the base of the second phalanx. The ten- don is inclosed in a distinct sheath. Use.—To extend the terminal phalanx, and indi- rectly the entire thumb. The muscle may be regarded as a differentiation from the Extensor Communis Digitorum, and is to the tliumb what the Extensor Indicis is to the index finger. Hence its isolation from the Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis and the Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis A number of tendinous slips of origin are often noticed which have not been included in the description The tendon lies halfway within the muscle. Relations Tlie muscle lies beneath the Extensor Com- munis Digitorum. Beneath it lie the interosseous mem- brane and the ulna. To the radial side are the Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis and Extensor Carpi Kadialis; to the ulnar side the Extensor Indicis and Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior. Tlie tendon crosses the sheath of the ten- don of the Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior over the first interosseous space to gain the median edge of the first meta- carpal bone. Variations.—The muscle may undergo entire cleavage, or develop more than one tendon. The insertion may advance along the thumb. It may partially fuse with the Abductor Pollicis. THE EXTENSOR INDICIS. This muscle arises from about the lower third of the posterior surface of the ulna and from the inter- osseous ligament, and is inserted on the last two phalanges of the second finger. The tendon enters the sheath of the Extensor Communis Digitorum as far as the carpus. Use.—To extend the second finger at the first phalanx. It may, in this connection, act conjointly with the Extensor Communis Digitorum. Duchenne detected a slight abducting power in the muscle when faradized. Nerve.—It is supplied by a branch of the posterior interosseous. The posterior surface of this muscle, as it lies beneath the fibrous surface of the Extensor Carpi Ulnaris, is distinctly fibrous. Tiiis layer is continuous with tiie intermuscular septum to the outer side of the Extensor Communis Digi- torum. Relations Above it lies the Extensor Carpi Ulnaris; below, the muscle rests upon the interosseous membrane. To the radial side lies the Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis, and to the outer side, the ulna—The tendon crosses the carpus and tlie second interosseous space obliquely, and lies to the median side of the tendon given off" to the index finger by the Extensor Communis Digitorum. Variations of this muscle embrace tlie following:— (1) Errors by excess, by which the tlu'rd and fourth fingers receive tendons. (2) Excess of cleavage, by which the belly may be divided throughout, or the tendons be duplicated. (3) Accessions, received from the Extensor Communis Digi- torum. (4) Errors by defect, by which the muscle arising from the radius, may be inserted on the fascia of the hand, or may be absent. The Muscles of the Hand. The muscles of the hand include those of the— Palm. The Palmaris Brevis. Thumb. The Abductor Pollicis. The Opponens Pollicis. The Flexor Brevis Pollicis. The Adductor Pollicis. Fifth Finger. The Abductor Minimi Digiti. The Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti. The Opponens Minimi Digiti. Interossei. The Dorsal Interossei. Tlie Palmar Interossei. THE PALMARIS BREVIS. The Palmaris Brevis is a small muscle of a quadri- lateral form. It arises from the ulnar margin of the palmar fascia and the annular ligament, and is in- serted upon the skin toward the ulnar border of the palm. Use.—To assist in deepening the palm in the act of opposing the first and fifth fingers. Duchenne assigns to it a function of flexing the hand, and be- lieves it to be second only in importance in this act to the Palmaris Longus. Nerve.—The muscle is supplied by the ulnar nerve, a number of branches commonly underlying it. Variations—Commonly inconspicuous, it is rarely absent. The numerous reported instances of its absence are tliouglit by Macalister to be errors in observation. It may secure attachment from the pisiform bone, and is of unusual size when the Palmaris Longus is absent. Some fibres may reach the hypothenar eminence. THE ABDUCTOR POLLICIS. This muscle arises from the trapezium and the annular ligament. It is a flat muscle forming the greater part of the superficies of the ball of the thumb. The fibres pass downward and outward and are in- serted by a broad thin tendon on the lateral border of the first phalanx of the thumb near the dorsum, and are in part continuous with the expansion of the dorsal aponeurosis.