303 THE MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. o^iO^CXX: Variations It may be absent, when the Gemellus Infe- rior may take its place It may fuse with the Adductor Magnus, the Obturator Externus, and the Semimembranosus. Its insertion is apt to be divided into a number of separate fascicles It may send a fascicle to the great bursa beneath tiie Gluteus Maximus.—A bursa may lie beneath the muscle at the trochanter m'lnor. Relations The Quadratus Femoris is a member of llie adductor group of muscles. It is separated from the Ad- ductor Magnus by the internal circumflex vessels, and from the Semimembranosus behind by a quantity of adipose tissue. Above, it is crossed by the origin of the posterior femoral group of muscles, by the great sciatic nerve, and in part by the Gluteus Maximus muscle; behind by the Obturator Internus. The Posterior Femoral or Hamstring Muscles. The muscles of this group include— The Biceps Flexor Cruris. The Semitendinosus. The Semimembranosus. THE BICEPS FLEXOR CRURIS. The Biceps muscle (external hamstring), as is im- plied by the name, possesses two heads—an ischiatic and a femoral. The ischiatic head arises tendinouslj from the tuberosity of the ischium in conjunction with, the Semitendinosus; and for a short distance below the place of origin the two muscles are con- joined. The femoral or shorter head arises by fleshy fibres from the lower two-thirds of the linea aspera and the posterior surface of the sheath of the Vastus Externus (external intermuscular septum). This head forms a ribbon-shaped bundle, and joins the long head at its anterior surface to form the body of the muscle a short distance above the formation of the tendon of insertion. The muscle is inserted into the head of the fibula, and usually sends fibrous ex- pansions to the external femoral condyle, to the fascia of the leg, and to the head of the tibia. Near the insertion the muscle is aponeurotic on the super- ficial, and fleshy on the deep, surface. Near the origin it is fleshy on the superficial, and aponeurotic on the deep, surface. With care a dissection can be made showing the continuity of the origin of the Biceps with the great sacro- sciatic ligament. Use.—To flex the leg on the thigh, and, to a slight degree, to extend the thigh on the pelvis. It usually acts with the Semitendinosus, which passes to the median side of the proximal end of the tibia, the Biceps passing to the corresponding end of the fibula. The two muscles pull the leg backward somewhat after the manner in which the reins held in the hand of the driver can pull back the head of a horse. AVhen the muscle acts alone, it produces external rotation of the leg.-—-The tendon of insertion supports the capsule of the knee-joint laterally. To a slight degree it makes tense the fascia of the leg, and prepares the Peroneal muscles for action. Undue or unantagonized action of the Biceps is seen in some of the forms of "knock-knee." It in- duces outward rotation of the leg, and accompanies some varieties of paralysis of the femoral inward rotators. This action of the Biceps connects the muscle functionally with the Gluteus Maximus (see fascia of lower extremity). Nerve.—The muscle is supplied by branches from the great sciatic. Relations.—In front lies the sciatic nerve, which follows this muscle more closely than it does the other liamstrings and the Adductor IMagnus. Tiie Gluteus Maximus covers in the origin. It aids in defining the popliteal space ex- ternally. The tendon of insertion is a guide to the external popliteal nerve which lies to the median side The muscle is exceptionally vascular. The origin of tlie Semitendinosus lies behind that of the Biceps.—The superficial lamina of the Semitendinosus alone fuses with the Biceps A slip of the tendon lies behind tlie long external lateral ligament Tiie tendon of insertion is attached to the fibula at the middle of tiie styloid process A bursa lies between the tendon and the capsule of the knee- joint. Enlarged conditions of this bursa have been detected in the living subject.' Variations.—The femoral head of the Biceps may be absent. A second long liead may arise from the tuberosity of the ischium. A third femoral head may arise from near the proximal end of the linea aspera. It may receive a fascicle from the Gluteus Maximus. It may arise in part from the great sacro-sciatic ligament and the sacral vertebrae. It may join the Gastrocnemius near the tendo Achillis, or a pelvic slip may reach the fascia of the leg. A slip may pass to the knee-joint and to the long external lateral ligament. The tendon of insertion, in part, is almost always continu- ous with the Peroneus Longus. THE SEMITENDINOSUS. This muscle arises from the tuberosity of the ischium, and from the tendon of the Biceps Flexor for about three inches. It forms a fusiform belly, Avhich passes downward and inward to form a slender rounded tendon at about the middle of the thigh; and is iu.serted into the outer condyle of the femur, the ' W. Maceweii, Glasgow Med. Journ. 1876, 409.