THE MUSCLES OF THE INFEEIOK EXTREMITY. 301 ^XXS^OOO- Variations The anterior portion of the muscle may be partially or entirely distinct from the rest of the muscle form- ing the slip—constant in some of the man-like apes, and occasionally seen in the coati — known as the Scansorius. This slip, or head as some writers denominate it, may be intimately associated with the Sartorius and the Tensor Vagina? Femoris.—The muscle may be in close union with Anterior portions of Gluteus Medius, Gluteus Minimus (sCcansorial fibres), Tensor VaginaB Femoris, Posterior portions of Gluteus Merlins, Gluteus Miuimus, the capsule of the hip-joint. Its insertion into the trochanter may be strengthened by a slip from the ilio-femoral fascicle of the capsule A slip may pass from the muscle to the fascia lata. The following table may serve a useful purpose in correlating the functionally separated portions of the gluteal muscles with other anatomical facts. Rotate the tliigh inward, in which act they are assisted by the anterior fibres of the Gluteus Maximus. Tend to fuse with one another. Arise from the innominate bone from tlie first concavity of the dorsum (see p. 18G) by nearly vertical fibres, and are in close association with the fascia lata. ' Rotate the thigh outward, in which act they are assisted by the posterior fibres of the Gluteus Maximus, Pyriformis, Obturator luternus, Obturator Externus, Quadratus Femoris, and Adductor Muscles. Tend to fuse with the Pyriformis, and with tlie posterior fibres of the Gluteus ^laximus. Arise from the innominate bone by oblique fibres beyond ((. e., posterior to) the first concavity, and are nearly free from the fascia lata. THE PYRIFORMIS. The Pyriformis muscle arises from the antero-lateral surface of the sacrum at the intervals between the grooves of the second and the fourth sacral foramina, from the ilium at the great sciatic notch, and near the sacro-iliac junction, and from the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The muscle passes nearly horizontally outward through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and is inserted into the femur at the upper border of the great trochanter. It is here in close connection with the tendon of the Obturator Internus. Use.—Besides rotating the femur outward, it at the same time induces an oblique movement backward and a little outward, after the manner of the most posterior of the fibres of the Gluteus Medius and the Gluteus Minimus muscles. Nerve.—It is supplied by a branch of the sacral plexus. Relations In front lie the rectum, the sacral plexus of nerves, and the internal iliac vessels as the muscle lies within the pelvis, and the capsule of the hip-joint without. Behind lie the sacrum and the innominate bone. Above it lies the Gluteus Medius, and below it the Obturator Internus. The Gluteal vessels and nerves lie at its upper border. The central tendon is composed of thin pearly fibres be- neath. It is more or less continuous with the capsule of the hip-joint. The muscle may be considered to be an im- perfectly differentiated slip of the Gluteus MediUjg. Variations The muscle is sometimes double, allowing the great sciatic nerve to escape between tlie two bellies. It may fuse with the Glutens Medius, with tlie Coccygeus above, and with the Obturator Internus below. It may be inserted into the capsule of the hip-joint. F. S. Eve' found this muscle and the Gemelli ruptured in dislocation of the head of the femur backward. ' Med. Chir. Trans., Ixii., 51. THE OBTURATOR INTERNUS. This muscle arises from the narrow strip of bone to the inner side of the obturator foramen, from the posterior surface of the obturator ligament, and from the bone as far back as the sciatic notch. It also arises from the tendinous arch which converts the sub-pubic (obturator) groove into a canal, and from the obturator fascia. It passes through the lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen, its tendon winding around the trochlear surface on the ischium, and is inserted into the femur at the bottom of the digital fossa. As it escapes from the pelvis the muscle re- ceives a pair of accessory slips known as the Gemelli muscles. The Superior Gemellus arises from the spine of the ischium; the Inferior Gemellus from the tuberosity, and in part from the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The two slips converge and form a groove-like in- closure for the tendon of the Obturator Internus, a short distance from its termination. A bursa exists beneath the tendon at its point of reflection over the ischium. The tendon here is often marked by several minute longitudinal streaks. A second small bursa lies between the tendon and the fibrous capsule of the joint. Variations Accessory slips of origin from within the pelvis below the ilio-pectineal line, and the parts about the margin of the inferior pelvic strait. Infrequently a slip may arise from the third sacral vertebra The Superior Gemellus may be absent, or be fused with tlie Obturator Internus. It may be distinct and inserted in llie capsule of the hip-joint, or be fused either with the Pyriformis or tlie Gluteus IMinimus. —The Inferior Gemellus may be absent, fused with, or com- pensatory with the Quadratus Femoris. Use.—To rotate the femur outward, in which ac- tion it is aided by the Quadratus Femoris and the Obturator Externus. Under traction from the mus-