THE MUSCLES AND EASCl^ OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 279 adduct the humerus, and assist when both sets act to- gether in the act of foldiiig the arms. When the arm is raised above the horizontal position, these fibres depress and adduct it. They often act in conjunc- tion with the Coraco-Brachialis. When the anterior fibres are active, the posterior fibres are at rest.—The posterior fibres raise the humerus and abduct it. When the arm is raised above the horizontal position, these fibres depress and draw it backward, a move- ment aided by the Teres Major and Rhomboideus muscles. The anterior fibres are meanwhile relaxed. —The middle fibres are feebler than either of the preceding. They elevate the humerus in a direct line They can act either with the anterior or poste- rior fibres in their respective functions.—The actions of the Deltoid muscle, as above described, are de- pendent upon apposition of the humeral and scapular articular surfaces through the agency of the Supra- Spmatus muscle. — The Serratus Magnus, the long head of tlie Triceps, and the middle fibres of the Tra- pezius fix or limit the motions of the scapula during the action of the Deltoid. Action upon the line of origin is limited to the posterior fibres, which can aid the lower fibres of the Trapezius in drawing the scapula downward. Outward rotation of the humerus aids the differ- ent movements of the Deltoid. Nerve and Artery.—The Deltoid is supplied by the circumflex nerve and artery. The Deltoid muscle is remarkably fasciculated. The fascicles are coarse, and are arranged in the form of narrow wedges, seven in number The muscle is of loose texture in the clavicular and middle fasciculi, but is aponeurotic over the posterior portion, where it is continuous with the fascia of the Infra-Spinatus. The fascia is stouter as it passes to the Triceps than as it passes to the Biceps muscle. Posteriorly it lies over the head and shaft of the humerus, a large bursa intervening The muscle is liable to undei'go atrophy — a change that may ibilow comparatively trivial injuries. When the muscular wasting is marked, the hu- merus falls away from the scapula Sedillot' reports an example of rupture of the Deltoid The Deltoid, when re- laxed, owing to the entire absence of connection with tiie humerus above the deltoid ridge, can be so grasped as to raise tlie body of the muscle well from the humerus. Variations—The variations of the Deltoid are arranged in six groups. (1) Those examples showing a tendency to cleavage, by which the scapular portion is distinct from the rest of tlie muscle. The acromial fibres may pass almost independently to the humerus. (2) Those tending to fusion, by which the clavicular fibres pass to the internal intermuscular septum, and are thence continuous with the Brachialis Anticus. The clavicular fibres may also fuse with the Pectoraiis Major, the fibres of insertion of the entire muscle becoming continuous with the Supinator Longus. (3) Those in which accessions may be received from the fascia over the Infra-Spinatus muscle. (4) Those in which con- tributions may be received from the Trapezius. (5) Those in which the acromial or clavicular portions may be absent. Relations The fibres arising from the spine of the scapula overlap the fibres of the external and the long heads of tlie Triceps at their upper parts. The inferior median portion is supplied by terminal twigs of the artery lying between the Deltoid and the Pectoraiis Major. The proximo-median portion, namely, that part lying over the coracoid process, receives a lateral branch from the same artery. The Muscles of the Shoulder. The muscles of the shoulder, besides those included in the extrinsic set, embrace— The Supra-Spinatus. The Infra-Spinatus. The Teres Minor. The Teres Major. The Subscapularis. the SUPRA-SPINATUS. The Supra-Spinatus muscle arises from two-thirds of the supra-spinous fossa, from the upper surface of the scapular spine for its entire length, and from the under surface of the supra-spinous aponeurosis. The muscle is directed outward, the tendon passing over the base of the coracoid process, and is inserted ten- dinously into the uppermost facet of the greater tube- rosity of the humerus, and by a few fibres into the capsule of the shoulder-joint. The tendon has the dull aspect of ligamentous tissue. Use.—The Snpra-Spinatus muscle can elevate the humerus and carry it forward and inward. It aids in holding the head of the humerus close to the scap- ula during the action of the other muscles, notably the Deltoid, and rotates the humerus outward. When the Deltoid acts before the Supra-Spinatus, as when the parts are suddenly brought into action, it is apt to dislocate the head of the humerus. The muscle aids supination, and acts with the Teres Minor. Hamilton' mentions an instance of a woinan who, after carrying a bundle of hay upon her head for a long way with her arms uplifted, suddenly threw it to the ground, and in so doing dislocated the head of the humerus. In this case it is fair to suppose that the muscles holding the arm up had become fatigued, and were no longer efficient in retaining- the head of ' Mem. et Prix de la Soc. de Med. de Paris, 1817. Fractures and Dislocations, 534.