326 THE ML^SOLES AND FASCIA, JSTot only does this ligament define the upper and outer lateral .borders of the saphenous opening, but it is continuous beneath the pubic attachment of Pou- part's ligament with Gimbernat's ligament. The inner (median) border of the saphenous opening is thus on a lower plane than the upper and outer border. It is not sharply defined, but is represented by a smooth layer of pectineal fascia which is traceable upward heneath the femoral ring to the iliac fascia of the trunk. The femoral or crural canal is thus seen to be a curved passage of intricate outline determined by the relation of the superficial and deep layers of femoral fascia, and by the different planes which these structures necessarily occupy at the region of the groin. The loop of intestine passing along this canal receives no additional covering. "When, however, it reaches the saphenous opening, it encounters the general superficial fascia of the thigh, which has here received the distinctive name of the cribriform fascia from its sieve-like appearance. From the structural peculiarities of the saphenous opening already noticed, the loop of intestine inclines upward, and is turned abruptly over the sharp edge of Hey's ligament. The coverings of femoral hernia from without in- ward are, therefore, skin, cribriform fascia, trans- versalis fascia (crural septum), and peritoneum. Sir Astley Cooper and his followers accept the so-called fascia 2^T0])ria as a layer in place of the crural septum. The fascia propria is by these writers said to intervene between the cribriform fascia and the crui'al septum, and to be derived from the sheath of the femoral vessels. The point of constriction in femoral hernia is com- monly at the femoral ring, where either Hey's liga- ment or Poupart's ligament requires nicking before the constriction is overcome. In attempts at the re- duction of a femoral hernia it is of importance to re- member the flexion of the hernial mass upward over Hey's ligament. The loop must be drawn downward from this position, and brought in the same line with that of the femoral canal before success can be ex- pected. When the thigh is flexed and carried across its fellow, all the fascial expansions at the groin are relaxed. This, therefore, becomes the most favorable position in which the limb can be placed for the re- duction of femoral hernia. A knowledge of the relations of the obturator artery is of importance in the operation for femoral hernia.^ ' For figures of the fascia of tlie lower extremity the reader is referred to Plate LXXV. YI. THE MUSCLES AND FASCIAE OF THE PEEINEUM.i The perineum is the region which limits the trunk inferiorly, and is composed of those structures which fill in the inferior strait of the pelvis. Its boundaries are thus the same as those of the pelvic outlet, while its components of necessity vary in the two sexes.— In the male the perineum is composed of the anus, and the muscles inserted into it, of the bulb of the spongy body, and of the muscles connected therewith. The skin-surface of the perineum is marked by a conspicuous raphe extending from the anus to the root of the scrotum. The point of junction between a line connecting the tuberosities of the ischium and the raphe is called the perineal centre, and serves as a convenient point of comparison in describing the component parts of the perineum.—In the, female the perineum, as in the male, includes the anus and the muscles inserted into it, but, instead of including any portion of the genitals, ends at the posterior margin of the vulva. The perineum of the male is divided by the sur- geon into two regions by an imaginary transverse line uniting tlie ischial tuberosities. The region in advance of the line is called the anterior perineum or the perineum proper; the region back of the line is called the posterior perineum. (a) The anterior or true perineum is the genito- urinary portion of the pelvic outlet. It includes the membranous, muscular, and other structures occupy- ing the sub-pubic arch. The form is that of a tri- angle whose base is directed backward. It presents two layers, an anterior and a posterior—the two being traversed by the membranous portion of the urethra, bloodvessels, and nerves. Surrounding the urethra within these layers is the Transversus Perinasi Pro- fundus and the Constrictor Urethrjie muscles, and imbedded among the fibres of the latter are the glands of Cowper. From the great interest attached to this region in the operations upon the neck of the bladder and the membranous portion of the urethra, in the male, the true perineum has been elaborately studied as an arti- I In a classification of mnscles, p. 246, the muscles of the genital apparatus or the perineum are placed in the fourth or last section, and include the muscles of the anal region and those of the genito- urinary tract. Those of the third section, viz., the muscles of tlie larynx, are desorihed under the section treating of that organ. The muscles of the present group may for convenience he considered as a sixth section of the classification presented.