259 THE MUSCLES OF THE NECK, the halves of the thyroid cartilage, and thus lessening the transverse diameters of the larynx. Variations Slips may be received from tlie Tl:yro- Hyoid, tlie Crico-Tiiyroid, and the Sterno-Tliyroid muscles. The muscle may receive a few fascicles directly from the trachea. The pharynx, in addition to the muscles named, is strengthened by submucous longitudinal fibres, and by the fibres of insertion of the Stylo-Pharyngeus, the Palato-Pharyngeus, and other fascicles passing from the cartilage at the orifice of the Eustachian tube. THE STYLO-PHAKYNGEUS. The Stylo-Pharyngeas is a slender muscle arising from the styloid process and. inserted into the side of the pharynx between the Middle and the Inferior Constrictor. Use.—It aids the Stylo-Hyoid muscle in elevating the pharynx. Nerve.—This muscle is supplied by a branch of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Relations Beneath the muscle lies the ascending pharyn- geal artery. Above it lies the submaxillary salivary glund. THE PALATO-GLOSSUS arises from the anterior surface of the soft palate at the base of the uvula, and passes downward along the lateral wall of the pharynx to be inserted into the side of the base of the tongue. It is of a dusky-red color in health, and the fold of mucous membrane over it forms the palato-glossal fold or the " anterior half arch." Use.—To draw the palate slightly downward and forward. It also aids in keeping the tonsil in position. Both muscles acting together depress the soft palate and draw it forward, and, in the act of sucking, con- srict the nipple. Each muscle may be looked upon as a sphincter on a deeper plane than the lips, but like it in nature, and it is supplied by the same motor nerve, viz., the facial. It is also a noteworthy fact that the plane of the two muscles limits the region of involution of the epiblast—so that the palato-glossal muscles are less splanchnic than the pharyngeal muscles proper. THE PALATO-PHARYNGEUS arises from the soft palate at the base of the uvula behind the Palato-Glossus. It passes downward to be inserted into the lower part of the side of the pha- rynx. Some of its fibres can be occasionally traced to the thyroid cartilage. The fold of mucous mem- brane over it constitutes the palato-pharyngeal fold or "posterior half arch." Use.—To keep the soft palate in position during respiration. In deglutition, to elevate the pharynx; in order to make this action efficient, the palate must be elevated. The muscles then secure fixed points at their palatal connections, and assume a nearly vertical position. C. J. P. Yule^ concludes, from observa- tions on his own person, that the Palato-Pharyngeus is the chief factor in opening the Eustachian tube. THE TENSOR PAL ATI. This muscle arises from the sphenoid bone and the Eustachian tube. From the former it arises from the scaj^hoid fossa, and from the angular or spinous pro- cess. From the latter it arises from the hook carti- lage. The fibres of both surfaces are at their origin contiguous, and form a small muscle which descends vertically to the end of the pterygoid process as far as the hamular process, around which its tendon turns to be distributed radially upon the aponeurosis of the soft palate. Some of iis fibress are inserted upon the palatal bone. Use.—-This muscle, as its name expresses, was sup- posed to make the soft palate tense. This view is now no longer held. The muscle probably dilates the orifice of the Eustachian tube. THE LEVATOR PALATI arises from the end of the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone, and from the under surface of the Eustach- ian tube near its pharyngeal orifice. It receives some fibres from the cartilage of the tube. It is inserted into the soft palate near the uvula. The direction of the muscle is obliquely downward and inward. Use.—With reference to the soft palate: The muscle elevates the soft palate and makes it tense, since the right and left muscles act synchronously. With reference to the Eustachian tube: The shorten- ing of the body of the muscle, together with the in- crease of its diameter, has a tendency to close the orifice of the tube by elevating the lower border. The action of the Levator Palati can be readily studied in the living subject by the rhinal mirror. B}^ such aid the course of the muscle, even when at rest, can be seen corresponding to an oblique fold of mucous membrane which may receive the name of the salpingo-palatal fold. ' Journ. of Anat. and Pliys., viii. 1873 ; also Author's memoii-on Soft Palate, Trans. Amer. Med. Assoc. 1872, .537.