THE MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. 273 < Trans. Path. Soc. London, v. 1854, 245. 4 Ibid.,'1865, 235. ■ ooo^ooo cartilage. It is remarkable for tlie tendinous trans- verse lines interrupting the vertical bundles compos- ing it. These lines have received the name of the linex transversse {inscriptiones tendinese)^ and are dis- posed as follows: one opposite the navel, one half- way between it and the ensiforin cartilage, and one opposite that cartilage. A fourth, though incomplete, often divides the tract between the navel and the pubis. Relations The rectus muscle is in part inclosed in a sheath, already described (see External and Internal Ab- dominal Muscles). The Linea Alba.—This is a white fibrous band formed by the intimate union of the aponeuroses of the Oblique and Transversalis muscles. It occupies the interval between the Recti muscles, and embraces the umbilicus. It is slightly broader above than below, where a larger number of longitudinal fibres are seen. The linea alba is a favorite locality for incision in ovariotomy, and in the high operation for stone in the bladder. The Linea Semilunaris.—This resembles the linea alba in construction, but is curved and lies to the outer side of the Rectus muscle. Each line is about three inches from the umbilicus. Remarks.—The Rectus may be ruptured by mus- cular exertion. A good example of this is presented by C. Holthouse.^ A man while tying up a scaffold pole, both his hands being raised for that purpose, suddenly stepped from the plank upon which he was standing, and saved himself from falling by hanging on with his hands, his body being suspended in the air. At the same instant he felt a sudden tear in the region of the Rectus muscle. In a case reported by S. B. Richardson,^ the rupture involved all the fibres of the muscle of the right side at a point two inches below the umbilicus. The corresponding deep epigastric vessels and nerves were also completely severed. A htematoma ensued, accompanied by symptoms of peritoneal irritation, which were supposed to indicate ventral hernia. An exploratory incision was made and the clot turned out. The patient, a male of twenty-eight years, recovered. The muscle may be ruptured in tetanus.^ In a case reported by Curling^ the muscle of the right side, 1 Trans. Path. Soc. London, xiii. 1862, 263. 2 American .Journ. Med. Sci., Jan. 1S57, 41. ° Francis Mason, Trans. Path. Soc. London, 1808, 448. 35 about one inch above the pubis, was found after death to be torn transversely. Sedillot,^ in collecting the cases of ruptured muscle, found that thirteen in twenty- one occurred at the termination of the muscular fibres in the tendon, while eight occurred in the fleshy fibres alone. Rupture of the Rectus with hemorrhage is not infrequent in typhus and typhoid fever. Zenker^ shows that such lesions are due to disintegration of the muscular fibres. He describes two forms, one in which the sheathed structure of the muscle disap- pears, and in which the sarcous matter is converted into a quantity of minute granules; and the other in which the sarcolemma becomes filled with masses of a transparent strongly refracting waxy substance. Mur- chison describes^ an abscess occurring in the Rectus muscle of a man, thirty-seven years of age, who died of typhoid fever. The sheath of the Rectus may be the seat of an enormous abscess, which, according to Mr. Adams,* may have its origin in the symphysis pubis. Contraction of the bellies of the Recti muscles, owing either to inflammation of the subjacent peri- toneum or stomach, or in cases of increased muscular irritability, to the mere application of the hands, is frequently mistaken by inexperienced observers for hepatic enlargement. The spaces between the Abdominal muscles and between the Rectus and its sheath may serve for the location of abscesses and for fistulous tracts. In neglected abscess about the hip-joiut, pus has been known to point far up the abdominal wall, having found its way thither between the Oblique muscles. If a collection either of air, pus, or blood lies in the space between the External Oblique muscle and the skin, it can be distinguished from one more deeply situated, by the fact that it is arrested at Poupart's ligament. THE PYRAMIDALIS. This muscle is of a triangular shape as the name implies, and rests within the sheath of the Rectus. It arises from the horizontal ramus of the pubis close to the symphysis. It ascends along the inner border of the Rectus, and is lost within the linea alba. • Mem. et Prix de la Soc. de M^d. de Paris, 1817. 2 Ueber die Veranderungen der wilkurliclien Typlius Abdominalis, Leipzig, 1864. 3 Trans. Path. Soc. London, xvi. 275. Muskfcln im