334 DISPLACEMENTS IN FEACTUEE. Dislocation of Sternum.—The gladiolus is lifted up and carried iu advance of the manubrium by the force transmitted to it from the ribs, the manu- brium remaining fixed by the first and second ribs. W. Eivington/ in describing a lesion of this charac- ter, Avhich resulted from a bag of seed falling from a height of forty feet upon the trunk between the shoulders, conceives that the shock of the blow had been received by the six or seven upper dorsal verte- brae, and transmitted by the true ribs to the sternum, driving that bone forward. Owing to the greater mobility and leverage of the five lower true ribs, the gladiolus was acted upon more powerfully than the manubrium, and the result was that the strain fell on the structures uniting the two segments, and that the gladiolus was pressed forward in front of the maniibrium. Fracture of the Sacrum.—When the lesion is trans- verse and at the lower portion, the lower fragment may be drawn forward by the Gluteus Maximus, Coccygeus, and Sphincter Ani muscles. I'he Coccyx.—Similar forces to those above cited will cause the detached portion to be drawn forward. The Femur.—Fracture of the neck. The lower fragment is drawn upward by the gluteal muscles, aided by the Eectus Femoris and the hamstrings, and inward by the Pectineus, Iliacus Internus, and Psoas Magnus, and the Obturator Internus, aided by the adductor muscles. The eversion of the limb ordi- narily resulting from this lesion has been explained on theoretical grounds as the result of the action of the Obturator and Pyriformis muscles, together with the Iliacus and Psoas. The tendency for the foot to turn out is more easily rcferi-ed to the weight of the foot, and takes place as readily in states of unconscious- ness or after death as when the muscular system is active. Fracture below the trochanter minor. The upper fragment is tilted forward by the Iliacus Internus and Psoas Magnus, and rotated outward by the Gluteal muscles and the external rotators. The lower frag- ment is drawn upward by the adductor, hamstring, and Rectus Femoris muscles. The eversion of the limb is owing to the same causes as in fracture of the neck. Fracture in the middle third. The upper fragment, as in the foregoing lesion, lies in advance of the lower, owing to the operation of the same causes, viz.. the tilting of the upper fragment by the Iliacus and Psoas. At the same time the Adductor Magnus and Gastrocnemius draw back the lower fragment. Short- ening occurs from the traction of the Eectus and hamstring muscles. Fracture in the lower third of the femur. The upper fragment, as in the other examples of fracture of the shaft, lies in front of the lower, and is drawn slightly inward. The lower fragment is drawn back- ward toward the ham by the Gastrocnemius muscle. The displacement is slight. Some writers give undue prominence to its amount, while others deny its occurrence under any circumstances. It is generally held that the twoVasti muscles also materially aid in the backward tilting of the fragment. Congenital Dislocation.—The flexed femur in the foetus presses upon the posterior and inferior portion of the acetabulum. While in this position, according to Dr. Caruochan,! the bone is moved by the mus- cles which arise from the pelvis and are inserted in or about the trochanter. The Glutei being the more powerful of these muscles have a tendency by undue contraction to drag the head of the femur upon the dorsum of the ilium, thus creating a congenital dis- location of the hip. The Patella.—In fracture of the patella the upper fragment is drawn upward by the Quadriceps Femoris muscle. T'he Tilia.—Fracture of the shaft of the tibia at the superior or middle third prevents displacement of the fragments which vary according to the ob- liquity and direction of the opposed surfaces. The upper fragment often presents anteriorly and has been described as tilted forward by the Quadriceps Femoris. Such a motion, however, is exceedingly slight, and at best is not enough to account for the position. The shortening of the limb by the Gastro- cnemius muscle and the slipping upward of the tip of the oblique surfa.ce of the lower fragment behind the upper, thus pushing it forward, is a much more rational explanation. But the lower fragment may be in front and to the outer side of the upper; the fibres of the Gastrocnemius and Soleus muscles being responsible for the traction. The peroneal muscles may draw the foot slightly outward. In fracture of the fibula with lateral subdislocation of the ankle, the peroneal muscles strongly abduct the foot and tend to evert it. 1 Med. Chir. Trans., Iviii., 106. 1 Congenital Dislocation of the Hip, New York, 1850.