249 THE MUSCLES OF THE HEAD, According to Eoser, the anterior layer of the inner division of the Orbicularis Palpebrarum dilates the lachrymal sac, while the posterior layer serves appa- rently to compress it. The so-called tendon of the Orbicularis runs trans- versely over the middle of the lachrymal sac; conse- quently, when this is swollen, the resulting tumor appears sometimes to be divided into an upper and a lower portion. THE CORRUGATOR SUPERCILII. This muscle arises from the supra-ciliary ridge near its inner part, passes outward and upward, and is in- serted into the brow. It is a small muscle, and is pro- bably an imperfectly isolated group of fasciculi be- longing to the preceding muscle. THE TENSOR TARSI. The Tensor Tarsi (Horner's muscle) is a deep fascicle of the ciliary fibres of the Orbicularis Palpebrarum. It arises from the lachrymal bone behind the lach- rymal sac, and divides into two portions, a superior and an inferior. Each portion follows the direction of the lachrymal canal adjacent to it, and is lost on the structures about the median border of the corre- sponding tarsal cartilage. The Nasal Group includes the following muscles:— The Compressor Naris. The Depressor Alae Nasi. The Dilator Naris Anterior et Posterior. The Compressor Naris, the Depressor Alse Nasi, and the Dilatores Naris are unimportant fascicles whose actions are implied in the names they bear. The Compressor Naris arises by a narrow surface from the canine fossa of the superior maxilla. The fibres diverge from one another, and are inserted on a fibrous expansion at the side of the nose. This mus- cle descends to the alveolar line, and lies to the outer side of the Depressor Labii Superioris, and on nearly the same plane with the Levator Auguli Oris. The Depressor Alse Nasi arises from the superior incisive fossa of the superior maxilla, and is inserted into the integument over the nasal septum. A few fibres pass to the ala as well. Indistinct fibres of the Dilatores Naris pass between the cartilages of the ala and the integument. The Oral Group is composed of— The Orbicularis Oris. The Levator Labii Superioris Alyeque Nasi. 32 The Levator Labii Superioris Proprius. The Zygomaticus Major. The Zygomaticus Minor. The Levator Anguli Oris. The Depressor Labii Superioris. The Depressor Anguli Oris. The Levator Labii Inferioris. The Mentalis. THE ORBICULARIS ORIS is a thin layer of muscular fibres surrounding the mouth. It sends slips upward to the nose, and receives the remaining muscles of the oral group and the Buccinator. The labial fibres are continuous around the angle. Slips are sent off from the muscle to the septum and alse of the nose. Relations—The skin is intimately associated with the muscle in front, while the mucous membrane overlies it be- hind. It is supplied by branches of the facial nerve and the fifth pair, and receives a coronary branch of the facial artery. THE LEVATOR LABII SUPERIORIS AL^QUE XASI arises from the nasal process of the superior maxilla near the inner border of the orbit, where some of its fibres are continuous with those of the Orbicularis Palpebrarum. It passes downward, and is inserted upon the wing of the nose and the upper lip. THE LEVATOR LABII SUPERIORIS PROPRIUS. This muscle arises from the lower ed^e of the inner third of the orbit, from the superior maxilla, and from the malar bone. It passes downward to the upper lip. Lying upon the same general plane as the muscle last described, it is often united with it. Relations The muscle lies just beneath the skin, but is overlapped above by the lower fibres of the Orbicularis Pal- pebrarum. Beneath it lie the infraorbital nerve and blood- vessels, and the Levator Anguli Oris. THE ZYGOMATICUS MAJOR. The Zygomaticus Major arises from the malar bone, and passes downward and forward to be in- serted into the angle of the mouth. THE ZYGOMATICUS MINOR. The Zygomaticus Minor arises from the superior maxilla between the two last-mentioned muscles, and passes downward, parallel with the Zygomaticus