THE MUSCLES OF THE INFEEIQE EXTREMITY. 319 The Muscles of the Sole of the Foot. The muscles of the sole of the foot are divided, for convenience in dissecting, into four layers. The muscles of the first layer include— The Flexor Brevis Digitorum. The Abductor Pollicis Pedis. The Abductor Minimi Digiti. the flexor brevis digitorum. This muscle arises from the inner tuberosity of the calcaneura, from the plantar fascia near this origin, and from the intermuscular septa on either side. It passes forward and divides beneath the meta- tarsus into four small rounded tendons, which are pierced by the tendons of the Flexor Longus Digito- rum, and are inserted into the second phalanges of the four outer toes. Use.—To flex the toes. Nerve.—The muscle is supplied by branches of the internal plantar nerve. Variations But three tendons may be present, the fifth toe being without connection with the muscle. The muscle may secure a slip from tlie tibia. It may arise from both calcaneal tuberosities and from tlie space between them. THE ABDUCTOR POLLICIS PEDIS. The Abductor Pollicis Pedis muscle arises from the tubercle on the median surface of the calcaneum, from the annular ligament, and from a tendinous arch overlying the plantar vessels and nerves. It passes forward along the inner border of the foot, the tendon becoming free at the metatarso-plialangeal joint, and is inserted on the first phalanx of the first toe and on the inner sesamoid bone. Use.—To abduct the first toe. Nerve.—The muscle is supplied by a branch of the internal plantar nerve. Variations.—It may send a slip to the first phalanx of the second toe, or to the skin of the ball of the first toe. ABDUCTOR MINIMI DIGITI. This muscle arises from the under surface of the calcaneum at and between the tuberosities, and from the plantar fascia and the external intermuscular sep- tum. It passes forward along the lateral margin of the foot, and is inserted into the lateral surface of the proximal end of the first phalanx of the fifth toe. Use.—To abduct the fifth toe. It acts as a cushion to the median border of the sole. Nerve.—The muscle is supplied by the external plantar nerve. Variations The muscle is often described as connected with a slip of the plantar fascia extending from tiie calca- neum to the fifth metatarsal bone. A variable slip is often inserted into the fifth metatarsal bone. It may fuse with the Flexor Brevis Pollicis and tlie Adductor Pollicis. The Abductor Pollicis and Adductor Pollicis with the Flexor Brevis Pollicis may be regarded as liomologous with the parts of a metatarso-plialangeal flexor of the mammalian foot. The muscles of the second layer include— The Flexor Accessor!us. The Lumbricales. For accounts of these muscles see page 317. The muscles of the third layer include— The Flexor Brevis Pollicis Pedis. The Adductor Pollicis. The Transversalis Pedis. The Flexor Minimi Digiti. THE FLEXOR BREVIS POLLICIS PEDIS. This muscle arises by two obscurely defined heads: one from the plantar surface of the first cuneiform bone, from the calcaneum, from the sheath of the Flexor Longus Digitorum, and from the adjacent fibrous tissue; and the other from the cuboid and third cuneiform bones. The fascicle of the inner head passes forward parallel with the tendon of the Abductor Pollicis, and is inserted into the inner sesa- moid bone at the first metatarso-phalangeal joint. The fascicles of the outer head are inserted into the outer sesamoid bone in company with the tendon of the Transversalis. Use.—To flex the first toe. Nerve.—The muscle is supplied by the internal plantar nerve. Variations—The inner head often receives a slip from the Tibialis Posticus. It may fuse in part with the Abduc- tor Pollicis and the Adductor Pollicis. The Flexor Brevis Pollicis is a survivor of a group of metatarso-plialangeal flexors almost constantly present in the mammalian foot. THE ADDUCTOR POLLICIS muscle arises from the plantar aspect of the cuboid and of the third cuneiform bones, from the proximal ends of the third and fourth metatarsal bones, and from the sheath of the Peroneus Longus muscle. It passes forward and inward, and is inserted on the outer sesamoid bone at the first metatarso-phalangeal joint. Use.—To adduct and flex the first toe. Nerve.—The muscle is supplied by the deep branch of the external plantar.