THE MUSCLES OF THE INFEEIOE EXTEEMITY. 817 ooO^O^»«= — of the articulation of tlie knee. As lonji as the limb is ex- tended, the tendon of the Popliteus is not in the groove; but as the knee bends, the tendon slides over the smooth lip of the groove, and sliould the Hexion continue to a considerable degree, tlie tendon at last slips into the groove, whicli may thus be said to have been ibrmed for the occasional reception of tlie tendon of the Popliteus (Winslow).^ Variations The muscle may have a second head.'^ Av sesamoid bone has been found in the tendon. The Semi- membranosus may send slips of insertion to the fascia over the muscle. THE FLEXOE LOXGUS DIGITORUM. The Flexor Longus Digitorum inuscle arises from the oblique line and the posterior surface of the tibia from its middle third to within a short distance of the ankle, as well as from a fibrous septum between it and the Tibialis Posticus muscle. At the distal third of the leg the muscle forms a tendon which reaches to the inner side of the ankle, where it lies on the astragalus and the calcaneum, and, passing to the sole of the foot, divides into four tendons, which are inserted into the terminal phalanges of the four outer toes, piercing for this purpose the tendons of the Flexor Brevis Digitorum. Use.—To flex the four outer toes. Nerve.—It is supplied by a branch of the posterior tibial nerve. The tendon lies in a distinct sheath, and is protected at tiie ankle by the stout annular ligament. Hj'rtl describes this muscle as two-headed; the/oh^ head being that given above as the one for the entire muscle; the short head being the Flexor Accessorius. Relations In the leg tlie muscle lies on the same plane as that of the Tibialis Posticus and the Flexor Longus Pol- licis, and, like them, is covered to near the ankle by a layer of the deep fascia. At the ankle the tendon is in close asso- ciation with the tendon of the Tibialis Posticus, but while it slightly overlies this tendon to the inner side, it is in a dis- tinct sheath. In the sole of the foot the tendon passes beneath the Abductor PoUicis and the Flexor Brevis Digitorum, and lies at the median edge of the Flexor Accessorius in com- pany with the tendon of the Flexor Longns Pollicis. Variations.—It may undergo longitudinal cleavage. A second head may arise from the fibula It may fuse in part with the Tibialis Posticus or tlie Flexor Longus Pollicis. The muscle is slightly .separated from the tendon of the Tibialis Posticus in talipes vai-us, and a little below the level of the ankle-joint passes suddenly inward and back- ward at a right angle to the leg toward the sole of the foot. ^ See also Knox's edition of Cloquet, and J. Goodsir's Anatomi- cal Works. 2 Gruber, Mullei-'s Arcliiv, 187.5, 599, fig. THE FLEXOR ACCESSORIUS. The Flexor Accessorius is a square muscle arising from the calcaneum by two separate masses—one fleshy and broad, from the median surface of the bone, and one tendinous, from the lateral surface at a point in advance of the external tubercle. It is inserted into the oblique tendon of the Flexor Longus Digi- torum. Use.—To assist the Flexor Longus Digitorum. Nerve.—It is sup^jlied by the external plantar nerve. Variations The muscle may secure an increased origin from the calcaneum, or a slip of origin from the leg—either from the fibula, the fascia, or from the Soleus or Peroneus Brevis muscles. It varies greatly in its insertion, tending in the main to send slips to the flexor tendons of the third and fifth toes. THE LUilBRICALES. The Lumbricales are .slender fusiform muscles, four in number, arising from the median side of the ten- dons of the Flexor Longus Digitorum. They pass forward to the web of the foot, where they turn to- ward the dorsal surface, and are inserted on the dorsal aponeurosis (or tendon of the Extensor Longns Digitorum) at the distal end of the second phalanx of each of the four outer toes. Use.—To assist the Extensor Longus Digitorum. Nerve.—They are supplied by branches of the ex- ternal plantar nerve. Variations One or more of the muscles may be absent. THE FLEXOR LONGUS POLLICIS. The Flexor Longus Pollicis, the strongest muscle of the deep layer, arises from the distal two-thirds of the posterior surface of the fibula (excepting a small portion near the ankle), from the septum between it and the Peroneus Longus and the Peroneus Brevis, and from the posterior surface of the Tibialis Posticus muscle. The stout tendon becomes free near the ankle-joint, and descends to the sole of the foot close to the ankle-joint, and lies deep within the interval between the internal malleolus and the astragalus, the posterior border of which it grooves, and is held close to the side of the calcaneum beneath the sustentxi- culum tali. The tendon in the sole of the foot passes along the median border, and is inserted into the terminal phalanx of the great toe. It constantly sends a slip to one of the tendons of the Flexor Com- munis Digitorum.