298 THE MUSCLE results, indeed, from tlie simple thickening of this fascia. It extends in the main from the anterior distal ends of the radius and the ulna, and protects, while affording a pulley-like band for, the muscles passing beneath it to the liands. It is strengthened bj bands from the pisiform bone. In the undissected subject its position is indicated by a transverse fold in the skin. Remarks.—Coulson^ describes, in connection with the superficial fascia, a number of bursas, as follows: a bursa in the axilla; one over the internal epicondyle, which has been known to assume the size of a Avalnut; one over the olecranon; one at the distal end of the radius; one at the distal end of the uhia; one at the carpus (this may often become enlarged, and contain about a drachm of fluid); a large bursa over the first joint of the thumb; other bursas, often double, over the first and second joints of the fingers. The annular ligament, in its practical relations, is perliaps the most important portion of the fascia of the forearm. When the sheaths of the flexors are distended by an excess of fluid, it divides the swelling into two parts, since it is too rigid to yield to pressure.^ Symes' recommends its division in distension of tlie siicaths of the fingers. Accord- ing to Sir Ciiarles Bell,* the fascia in inflammatory states of the arm acts as a bandage, and constricts the parts beneatii without itself becoming eitlier inflamed or contracted. In marked examples the forearm may be flexed on tiie arm, and tiie fingers may be flexed. Free incisions of the fascia are recommended to relieve tlie tension Nelaton^ describes a condition of deep-seated suppuration in tlie forearm in Avhich the pus ap[)ears to originate about the tendon of the Flexor Longus Pollicis, the sheath of which participates in the * Lond. Med. Jonrn., 1851. ^ Coulson, Lond. Med. Joum., 1851. ^ Edinburgh Monthly Journ., Oct. 1844. * Surgery, i. G7. 5 N. Y. Med. .Journ., April, 1SG6 (from vol. iii. Journ. of Prac. Med. and Surg.). AND FASCIA. disease, and thence passes to the front of the interosseous ligament and the Pronator Quadratus. He recommends that an incision be made laterally: viz., near the radial margin of the forearm, using the tendon of the Flexor Carpi Radialis as a guide, and thence boldly pushing down through the Flexor Profundus. Tlie Palmar Fascia.—Under the name of the Pal- mar Fascia is embraced the delicate aponeurosis lying beneath the skin of the palm. Its longitudinal fibres are in continuity with the tendon of the Pal- maris Longus and receives accessions from the fascial layer of the annular ligament about the wrist. It gives shape to the body of the hand, assists in the formation of the Aveb of the fingers, provides slips extending to the metacarpal bones, and aids in the formation of sheaths for the Lumbricales and In- terossei muscles.^ The bands assisting to form the Aveb of the fingers are known as the "fibres of Gerdy." These are the most conspicuous of the transverse fibres of the fascia. They are specially well developed at the distal border, where they so unite the first row of phalanges as to interfere with the complete separate flexion of any one finger. ' In the course of an elaborate study of the palmar fascia in con- nection with " Dupuytren's Finger Contraction," my friend Dr. W. W. Keen has called attention to this feature. Arching over from one melacariial bone to the other are three strong fibrous bands, posterior to which lie the Interosseous muscles.—From the under surface of the fascia, as it reaches the level of the knuckles, eight or nine more or less well-marked partitions arise and pass posteriorly to be attached as follows: four of them reach the meta- carpals, blending with the arching fibrous bands just described; the others are attached directly to these bands at points between their bony attachments. These partitions or pillars form seven distinct canals. Through four of these pass the flexor tendons of each finger in jjairs. Through the other three pass the three ulnar Lumbricales, and with them the interosseous artery and the digital nerves. The radial or first Lumbrical muscle is sometimes included in a separate canal, more often it is not. These canals secure the flexor tendons in the j)alm. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XLIX. Fig. 1. The muscles of the palmar surface of the hand. Fig. 2. Tlie interossei muscles, seen from the palmar surface. Fig. 3. The interossei muscles, seen from the dorsal sur. face.