THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA cx^O^fC^ OF THE PERINEUM 329 Fig. 82. A View of the Dissection of the Posterior Perinftm of the Male.—a. The spliiufter iuii (exterual vortim)- B. Fibres of the SHiiie at the aual orifice. It. Levator aui. E. Gluteus niaximus. a. Puilie artery, b. luferior hanior- rhoidal artery, c. Brauch of the sciatic artery. 1. Inferior liemorrhoidal nerve. 2. The superficial perineal uerve. 3. The perineal branch of the fourth sacral uerve. 4. The small sciatic uerve. surrounding it. The muscle may be raptured by forcible dilatation from side to side. This procedure will take the place of division under some circum- stances, and greatly facilitate operations within the rectum, and it will enable the operator to explore the deeper parts with the hand. THE LEVATOR ANI. The Levator Ani is a thin sheet-like muscle lying upon the side of the true pelvis. Its somewhat ex- tended line of origin embraces the horizontal ramus of the pubis between the upper and the lower bor- ders, a small portion of the descending ramus of the pubis, the upper border of the pelvic fascia as it lies between the Obturator Internus muscle (arcus tendinosus), the spine of the ischium, and the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament. The anterior fibres (Levator Prostati) are inserted at the base of the bladder and about the prostate gland. The fibres arising from the pelvic fascia pass downward and inward toward the rectum, with the coats of which they are incor- porated near the Sphincter Ani. The posterior fibres arising from the spine of the ischium pass downward and inward, and, approaching one another, are in- serted ill a raphe extending from the tip and sides of the coccyx to the anus. Function.—^The Levator Ani muscles form a dia- phragm across the inferior pelvic strait which supple- ments in respiration the thoracic diaphragm. When the motions of the last-named structure are impaired, 42 as in the fixation of the lower ribs from a dressing for fractured rib, or in the use of the plaster jacket, the perineum, through the agency of the Levator Ani muscles, is seen to rise in expiration and descend in inspiration. The muscle also aids in the act of defecation and in supporting the pelvic viscera. The membranous surfaces affording origin to its fascicles are rendered tense by the act of squatting, owing to the continuity of these membranes with the lines of origin of the Biceps Flexor Femoris. Relations The Levator Ani muscle is covered below the arciis tendinosus by the pelvic fascia, which thus sepa- rates it i'rom the peritoneum. Below tlni fascia se[)arates the muscle from the bladder and rectum in the male, and from the rectum and vagina in the female. Nerve.—The Levator Ani is supplied by branches of the fourth sacral nerve. THE ISCHIO-COCCYGEUS. The Ischio-Coccygeus muscle arises by a broad base from the tip and side of the coccj'x and a small portion of the sacrum. It passes outward, its fibres converging as it does so, to be inserted into the spine of the ischium and in part upon the lesser sacro- sciatic ligament. Its anterior border is nearly con- tinuous with the posterior fibres of the Levator Ani. Functions.—The muscle aids in supporting the pel- vic viscera. When both muscles act.together they may draw the coccyx slightly forward, and thus lessen the antero-posterior diameter of the inferior strait of the pelvis. The Ischio-Coccygeus is homologous with the lateral tractor of the tail in the Quadrumana. Nerve.—The Ischio-Coccygeus is supplied by a branch of the fourth sacral nerve. 2. The Fascij<; of the Perineum.' The fascia? at the inferior outlet of the pelvis may be studied (1) from above, /. e., from within the pelvis, or (2) from below, i. e., from the skin surface.^ (1) The perineum, studied from alove. Under this head are included two fascia? as fol- lows :— The Obturator Fa.'^cia. The Pelvic Fascia. ' For convenience the descriptions of the amis and of the ischio- rectal fossa are included in this section. 2 This division of the structures at the outlet is shown to be correct by a study of the development of the parts. The pelvic organs are sustained by structures whicli are common to the ab- dominal cavity. The skin, the perineal fasciae and muscles, as op- posed to these, are tefjumentanj structures.