THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 293 vol. X. See also T. Holmes, Surgery, 286. metatarsal bones, an Opponens, entirely irrespective of function. ■ C'OO^OO-a Use.—To abduct the thumb. It is assisted in this act by the superficial head of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis and the Opponens Pollicis. Relations A very narrow cellular line separates it on the median side from the superficial head of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis, whicli is situated on the same plane. It covers the Opponens Pollicis, from which it can be distinguished by the direction of its fibres, and by a thin intervening aponeurosis. Variations The muscle may undergo longitudinal cleav- age. It frequently receives a fibrous slip from the Exten- sor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis, and a muscular slip from the styloid process of the radius. A slip may be inserted into the skin. The trapezoid fibres may be absent. The subcutaneous section of the tendon of this muscle should be essayed, according to Holden,' at a point one inch above its insertion. THE OPPONEXS POLLICIS. The Opponens Pollicis muscle (Flexor Ossis Me- tacarpi Pollicis) arises from the anterior annular ligament in front of the Flexor Carpi Radialis and Palmaris Longus muscles, as well as from the ridge of the trapezium. The muscle is directed outward and is inserted for the most part by fleshy fibres, along the entire extent of the lateral border of the first metacarpal bone. Use.—To flex and abduct the first metacarpal bone. The term Opiionens^ has been given this muscle, and the Opponens Minimi Digiti under the supposition that these are the chief muscles engaged in oiqwsiwj the first and fifth metacarpal bones. It is inaccu rate to confine the term to the Opponens Pollicis, since its action in this regard cannot be separated from that of the Abductor Pollicis and the deep head of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis. THE FLEXOR BREVIS POLLICIS. The Flexor Brevis Pollicis muscle is composed of two portions, a superficial and a deep. The superficial portion arises by fleshy and tendinous fibres from the annular ligament. The cZee/; portion arises from the trapezium and os magnum, from the sheath of the Flexor Carpi Radialis, and from the proximal ends of the second and third metacarpal bones. The deep narrow interspace between the heads is occupied by the tendon of the Flexor Longus Pollicis. The two portions are commonly united by a conjugate fasci- cle, but each division is inserted separately npon the ' Landmarks, 103. ' It has become customary for anatomists to name any group of muscular fibres intrinsic to the hand or foot, and wfiich may be inserted upon the palmar or plantar surfaces of the metacarpal or proximal end of the first phalanx of the thumb, the superficial portion to the lateral and the deep to the median side. A sesamoid bone lies within each ten- don. Use.—To flex and abduct the first phalanx of the thumb. ISTerve.—The superficial portion is supplied by the median and the deep portion by the ulnar nerve. The superficial portion is thus a member of the abductor set of muscles (including the Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis, Abductor Pollicis, and Opponens Pollicis) with which it is in intimate association. The deep portion is a true adductor, and is to be studied in connection with the Ad<luctor Pollicis. This fact has long been insisted upon by French anatomists, and has received endorsement from Duchenne in his studies of the electrization of muscles in the living subject.—Hyrtl's statement that the muscle is analogous to the Flexor Subliniis Digitorum—the long flexor being analogous to the Flexor Prol'undus Digitorum—can- not be sustained. Relations The superficial portion is on a level with the Opponens Pollicis, wiiile the deep is on a level with the Ad- ductor Pollicis. The former overlaps the Adductor Pollicis at the lateral edge. The branches of the median nerve for the thumb cross it. Variations The superficial portion at its origin is in part united with the Opponens Pollicis. It may fuse with the Abductor Pollicis. The entire muscle may be absent. Remarks.—The mechanism of backward disloca- tion of the first phalanx of the thumb has been care- fully studied by Fabbri,' and, since it brings into play anatomical peculiarities of the short flexor of the thumb, may be here described :— "The first phalanx, as it moves backward, takes with it the two heads of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis, and the sesamoid bone developed in them ; the ante- rior and the lateral ligaments of the joint are torn off from the head of the metacarpal bone, which tears a way for itself through the fibrous tissue uniting the two heads of the Flexor Brevis, between which it projects as a button docs out of a buttonhole." THE ADDUCTOR POLLICIS. This irregularly triangular muscle arises from the anterior two-thirds of the palmar surface of the meta- carpal bone of the middle finger, and by a fasciculus from the anterior part of the carpus. The fibres from this extensive origin converge outward to form a short tendon to be inserted with the deep head of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis through the medium of the sesamoid bone into the base of the first phalanx of the ' Memoire dell' Accad. delle Scienze dell' lustituto di Bologna,