THE MUSCLES OF THE HEAD. 255 ■ ooo^ooo — and by the skin. It is overlapped sliglitly from behind by the parotid gland, and crossed by the parotid duct and fila- ments of the facial nerve. Below it are the ramus of the lower jaw and the terminal portion of the tendon of the Temporal muscle, while in front lies the Buccinator, from which the Masseter is separated by a mass of delicate fat. Use.—The Masseter elevates the lower jaw, and draws it slightly forward. Artery.—The muscle is supplied by the masseteric artery, a branch of the internal maxillary. N'erve.—The muscle receives a branch of the facial nerve at the sigmoid notch. THE TEMPORAL. The Temporal muscle arises by fleshy fibres from the entire surface of the temporal fossa (excepting that portion defined by the orbital septum) and from the upper third of the temporal aponeurosis. The latter structure is a beautiful glistening layer of fibres extending from the borders of the temporal fossa to the zygomatic arch. It is thin and weak at its origin, but increases in thickness as it descends, and divides near the zygoma into two leaflets. Between these is inserted a small quantity of compact adipose tissue. The Temporal muscle is composed of two portions—a superficial, thin and delicate, which arises from the aponeurosis; and a deep, which arises from the floor of the fossa. The fibres of the superficial are con- tinuous above with the deep fibres, but below they are gradually lost in the deep layer of the Masseter muscle. The fibres of the deep portion, which com- pose the great bulk of the muscle, assume a position more vertical before than behind, where they are nearly horizontal. They gradually converge to a central tendon, which is inserted upon the coronoid process of the lower jaw, chiefly along its inner sur- face and anterior border. Use.—To elevate the lower jaw. Artery.—The muscle receives the temporal branches of the external carotid superficially, and the deep temporal branches of the internal maxillary artery from beneath. Nerves.—Its nerves are branches of the facial and of the auriculo temporal. Relations Superficially to the Temporal muscle lie the integument, the temporal fascia, and the aponeurosis of the Occipito-Frontalis muscle as it atlbrds origin to the auricu- lar muscles. Beneath lie a portion of the temporal fossa, the External Pterygoid muscle, and the internal maxillary artery. Eemarks.—Pus may be guided from a deep tempo- ral abscess to the coronoid process, and thence into the mouth, along the loose fat lying about the deeper portion of the muscle. By means of the great thickness of the substance of the muscle an extensive fracture of the skull at the temporal fossa may be disguised. The delicacy of the fibres arising from the temporal fossa, and the radiate manner in which they pass from the bone, explain why blood is not found in a clot be- tween the muscle and the skull in instances of frac- ture of the latter through the temporal fossa, but is found Incorporated with the muscle-fibres themselves. In the language of clinical writers the muscle is said to be "infiltrated" with blood. If the bleeding has been extensive, the deep portion of the muscle presents the appearance of a firm blood-clot, which, however, is limited outwardly by the position of the tendon. the internal pterygoid. The Internal Pterj^goid muscle has a tendinous origin from the pterygoid fossa. The fibres pass backward, downward, and outward, and are inserted upon the inner surface of the angle and the ascending ramus of the lower jaw. The muscle is of coarse structure, and is interspersed with stout bands of fibrous tissue. The Internal Pterygoid muscle is an important factor in maintaining false anchylosis of the temporo- maxillary joint. After division of the anterior border of the Masseter muscle this condition may persist, but the anchylosis readily yields to division of the Internal Pterygoid.^ Use.—In connection with the Temporal and the Masseter the Internal Pterygoid raises the lower jaw. In connection with the External Pterygoid it draws the lower jaw forward. Relations.—Fi-om the oblique position of the muscle the relations of its median portion are different from those of its outer portion. Thus the former is related to the Tensor Palati and Superior Constrictor of the pharynx ; while to the lateral side of the latter portion lie the internal lateral liga- ment, the internal maxillary vessels, and the inferior dental artery and nerve. THE external PTERYGOID. The External Pterygoid muscle arises by two heads from the sphenoid bone: one from the under surface of the great wing at the pterygoid ridge; and one from the outer surface of the external plate of the pterygoid 1 C. S. Tenner, Am. Journ. Med. Sci., July, 1854, 131.