332 DISPLACEMENTS IN FEACTUEE. into tlie perineum and diffuse cellulitis are in this ft-ay liable to occur. The iscbio-rectal fossa is a frequent site of alscess and of fistulous tracks extending thence from the rectum. In the course of wasting diseases—notably pulmonary consumption—the fat occupying the fossa is absorbed, and the region appears, under the altered condition resulting from the absorption, to be liable to attacks of inflammation and abscess. Extensive infiltration may cause large irregular abscesses to form in the posterior perineum, which, however, as a result of the union existing between the fascia pro- pria and the second layer of the oerineal fascia, never involve the anterior perineum. ON DISPLACEMEN After a fracture in any of the movable bones, the action of the muscles connected with the fragments, conjoined to the weight of the limb or adjacent parts, is liable to produce displacements. These are distor- tions of the axis of the broken bone. The displace- ment depends, among other things, upon the direction of the fracture. It is more decided in oblique than in transverse fractures, and also holds a direct relation to the development of the muscles attached to the fragments. The brief account here given of these displacements is not intended to include all tlie possible forms, but to give those which may be said to be typical. For the unusual forms of displacement, and the explana- tions of them, the student must consult the elaborate w^orks on surgery. The Lower Jaw.—In the fracture of the lower jaw at the anterior third of the horizontal portion, the short fragment is elevated, and turned slightly inward by the Temporal, Masseter, and Internal Pterygoid muscles. The larger fragment remains nearly station- ary, or is drawn slightly downwards by the depressors of the lower jaw. When the mental portion is separated by a frac- ture on each side of the incisorial portion, the middle fragment is drawn forcibly downward by the Genio- Hyoid and Mylo-Hyoid muscles, and, if the detached portion includes the digastric fossa, by the Digastric muscle. The lateral fragments are elevated and drawn inward. Fracture of ihe Clavicle.—In all fractures of the clavicle, the weight of the superior extremity tends to pull the outer fragment downward, the displace- ment being modified by the mobility of the scapula. The most common location of fracture in this bone is at the outer end of the middle third. The weight of the superior extremity here causes the outer fragment TS IN FRACTURE. of the bone to fall below the level of the inner frag- ment, which is held in position by the rhomboid ligament and the Subclavius muscle. Some writers believe that the inner fragment may be slightly ele- vated by the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscle. In ad- dition to its downward traction, the outer fragment is ordinarily drawn in toward the chest, as well as slightly forward, by the Subclavius and Pectoral muscles. It may be drawn slightly backward as well as downw^ard by the muscles holding the scapula and humerus backward, viz., the Serratus Magnus, the Latissimus Dorsi, and possibly by the Ehomboi- deus. When the fracture occurs near the sternal end, the outer fragment behaves as in fracture at the middle third. The movements, however, are restricted by the pressure of the first rib immediately beneath and behind the inner end of the outer fragment. The fragment cannot pass backward or downward by reason of the position of this rib, and hence forms a forward projection. The sternal fragment is not de- flected. When the fracture is at the point of the bone answering to the interval between the fibres of the coraco-clavicular ligaments or between the ligaments and the acromial end, little or no displacement occurs. It is limited to an alteration in the direction of the bone by which the natural convexity of this portion of the clavicle is increased. When the lesion is between the trapezoid ligament and the sterno-clavicular articulation, the displace- ment of the outer fragment is considerable. When the lesion is to the sternal side of the rhomboid ligament, the acromial fragment alone is ordinarily displaced; since muscular action, the weight of the upper extremity, and the mobility of the scapula all combine to depress the acromial portion, and press