244 THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA, c-OO^OOo ■ The Shapes of Muscles. The simplest form of a muscle is that of a lamina or ring. In either case the muscle is fleshy throughout, and little or no differ- ence is detected between the points of origin and in- sertion. Diversity in voluntary muscles is established by division of the single lamina into separate thongs or fascicles, and by the variety exhibited in the attach- ment of these to adjacent parts by means of fibrous sheets or bands. In the involuntary or semivoluntary muscles diversity occurs by the circular fibres about a tube, such as the intestine, becoming spiral or even longitudinal. The change which either a lamina or a ring undergoes in furnishing the patterns for forms more complex than themselves, is said to be the result of its s2')ecialization or differentiation^ these terms being used interchangeably. In those muscles which have been formed by differentiation from lamina3 a tendency exists for one or more such, fascicles to remain imperfectly separated from the main sheet. When a muscle has two points of origin and but one of insertion, one of the slips of origin is said to be an attempt at the formation of a distinct muscle. Thus, in the Biceps Flexor Cubiti the scapular and the coracoid heads are liable to become distinct, and thus the chief variation seen in the muscle completes the division hinted at by the presence of the second head. This tendency has been formulated under the name of the law of Meckel, which in substance is as follows: The pres- ence of more than one head to a muscle is an indica- tion that such accessory head is in reality the begin- ning of a process of differentiation of a distinct muscle. Variations of muscular forms are confined to the following kinds: Variations due to excessive differ- entiation. Variations in defect or excess. Cleavage^ by which term is meant a division of a muscular lamina or set of laminae either longitudinally or trans- versely. In the former instance the cleavage is par- allel to the course of the fibres. In the latter instance it is parallel to the plane of the lamina, and is often spoken of as planal. Variations due to imperfect differentiation. Fusion, a term of convenience, used here to indicate that two muscles conventionally dis- tinct have united in whole or in part. Compensatory variations, by which one muscle takes the place of another in whole or in part. A muscular bundle arising from one muscle to be inserted in another is said to send to such muscle an accessor?/ slip; one receiving a fascicle from another is said to receive a slip of contribution. When a muscle is highly specialized, and fibrous bands connect it to its origin and insertion, the muscu- lar mass is called its hodi/ or belly, and the fibrous bands the tendon of origin and the tendon of insertion respectively. The tendon of origin as well as of insertion often passes a variable distance within the belly, and is thus concealed; or it may be displayed upon the sur- face of the muscle. In either case the fibrous tissue is greatly thinned, and is lost upon the sheath. Nomenclature of Muscles. When a narrow tendon receives oblique fasciculi upon one side only, such a muscle is called penni/orm.—When the edge of a concealed tendon becomes apparent between divi- sions of a belly composed of oblique fascicles, such a muscle is called bi-penniform.—When a concealed tendon becomes apparent at right angles to the longi- tudinal axis of the muscle such a muscle is said to possess an "inscription." Some muscles of the body tend to be twisted upon themselves near their inser- tions. Such a disposition is called torsion.—When a tendon is long or well pronounced its action is not necessarily in a straight line with the longitudinal axis of the belly, but may be influenced by angula- tion about a resisting bony surface. Such muscles are called trochlear or pulley muscles. The pulley form is not confined to the muscles ordinarily termed trochlear. Many muscles, such as the Obturator Internus, are at all times trochlear, the posterior border of the ascending ramus of the ischium representing the pulley. Other muscles which may be straight in one position will be trochlear in another, as, for example, the Uiacus In- ternus and the Psoas Magnus, which, while straight in the position of rest, become trochlear when the lower limb is thrown backward, as in running. In the act of swinging the lower limb forward and inward these muscles are again trochlear as far as they are in- volved. Many trochlear forms are thus temporarily established by bone, and even by sheaths surrounding tendons, bands of fascia, etc. In addition to the arrangement of muscles accord- ing to this degree of complexity, or the manner of their fasciculation, or of the formation of their tendons, they are susceptible of classification by their positions relative to the skin. In this sense the terms super- ficial and deep muscles are employed. Superficial muscles embrace all the subdivisions of the great subcutaneous muscle (Panniculus Carnosus), which is well developed in many animals such as the hedge- hog and the seal, and of which the little muscles moving the outer ear—the muscles of expression —the Platysma Myoides, etc., are rudiments. The former of these are,'as a rule, longer, and possess