ANATOMICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE TORPEDO. 409 ANATOMICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE TORPEDO^ By John Hunter, F.R.S. I WAS desired some time since, by Mr. Walsh, whose experiments at La Rochelle had determined the effect of the torpedo to be electrical, to dissect and examine the peculiar organs by which that animal pro- duces so extraordinary an effect. This I have done in several subjects furnished to me by that gentleman. I am now desired by him to lay before the Society the observations I have made ; and for the better understanding of them, to present, on his part, a male and female torpedo in spirits; in the latter of which the electric organs are exposed in different views and sections ; like- wise a copper-plate, which he took care to have engraved, exhibiting those organs. Of the general structure and anatomy of the torpedo I say nothing, since the animal does not differ very materially, excepting in its electric organs (as they have been properly named by Mr. Walsh), from the rest of the rays, of which family it is well known to be. I will only premise that the torpedo, of which I treat, is about eighteen inches long, twelve broad, and in its central or thickest part two inches thick ; which is nearly the size of the female specimen now presented to the Society, as well as of that from which the plate was taken : but where there is any difference in the organ arising from difference in size, no- tice will be taken of it in this account. The electric organs of the torpedo'^ are placed on each side of the cranium and gills, reaching from thence to the semicircular cartilages of each great fin, and extending longitudinally from the anterior ex- tremity of the animal toThe transverse cartilage which divides the thorax from the abdomen ; and within these limits they occupy the whole space between the skin of the upper- and of the under surfaces : they are thickest at the edges near the centre of the fish, and become gradually thinner towards the extremities. Each electric organ, at its inner longitudinal edge, is unequally hollowed, being exactly fitted to the irregular projections of the cranium and gills. The outer longitu- dinal edge is a convex elliptic curve. The anterior extremity of each organ makes the section of a small circle; and the posterior extremity “ [This paper was read before the Royal Society July 1,1773, and published in the 63rd volume of the Philosophical Transactions.] ^ [PI. liii., fig. 1, 2, a a.']