372 OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE through the head, across the fauces and along the trachea, are rendered one continued canal; this union of glottis and epiglottis with the pos- terior nostril, making only a kind of joint, admits of motion, and of dilatation and contraction of the fauces, in deglutition, from the epi- glottis moving more in or out of the posterior nostril. This construction of parts answers a purpose similar to that of the epiglottis in the quadruped; it may be considered as the epiglottis and the arytenoid cartilages joining to make a tubular or cylindrical epi- glottis, instead of a valvular one. The reasons why there should be so peculiar a construction of parts do not at first appear; but we certainly see by it an absolute guard placed upon the lungs, that no water should get into them. This tribe being without the projecting tongue of the quadruped, and wanting its extensive motion and the power of sucking things into the mouth, may probably require the construction between the air and lungs to be more perfect; but how far it is so I will not pretend to say. The Brain and Medulla Spinalis, ■ The size of the brain differs much in different genera of this tribe, and likewise in the proportion it bears to the bulk of the animal. In the porpoise, I believe, it is the largest, and perhaps in that respect comes nearest to the human. The size of the cerebellum in proportion to that of the cerebrum is smaller in the human subject than in any animal with which I am ac- quainted. In many quadrupeds, as the horse, cow, &c. the dispropor- tion in size between cerebellum and cerebrum is not great, and in this tribe it is still less; yet not so small as in the bird, &c. The whole brain in this tribe is compact, the anterior part of the cerebrum not projecting so far forwards as in either the quadruped or in the human subject; neither is the medulla oblongata so prominent, but flat, lying in a kind of hollow made by the two lobes of the cerebellum‘s. The brain is composed of cortical and medullary substances, very di- stinctly marked; the cortical being in colour like the tubular substance of a kidney, the medullary very white. These substances are nearly in the same proportion as in the human brain. The two lateral ventricles are large, and in those that have olfactory nerves are not continued into them as in many quadrupeds ; nor do they wind so much outwards as in the human subject, but pass close round the posterior ends of the tha- “ [The most characteristic feature of the brain of the Cetacean is its great breadth, which exceeds its length. Each hemisphere is divided below by a fissura magna into an anterior and middle lobe, which extends over the cerebellum, so as to form a pos- terior lobe.]