OF PERSONS APPARENTLY DROWNED. 170 which a large column of blood so vitiated (consisting of what had been propelled from the heart after respiration stopped, and might be sup- posed the cause of the heart ceasing to act, together with all that re- mained in the heart and pulmonary veins,) was again pushed forward without any ill effect having been produced; and next, from the return to life of persons drowned and children still-born, which, were such a supposition true, could never happen, unless we imagine a change of the blood to take place in the brain, prior to the restoration of the heart’s motion. This restoration must therefore depend immediately on the application of air to the lungs, and not on the effects which air has upon the blood, or that blood upon the vital parts. If the affections of the mind have had any share in the cessation of action in the heart, its motion will not be so easily restored as in other cases. In our attempts to recover those who have been drowned, it might therefore be proper to inquire if there had been time sufficient for the person to form any idea of his situation previous to his being plunged into the water, as it is not unlikely that the agitated state of mind might assist in killing him; and in such case I should very much doubt the probability of restoring him to life. In the history of those who have and who have not been recovered, could the difference be ascribed to any such cause, it might lead to something useful; as in those who have had an intention to destroy themselves, a great difference in the chance of recovery may arise, from the mind having been previously very much affected. It frequently happens, in the case of drowning, that assistance cannot be procured till a considerable time after the accident; every moment of this delay renders recovery more precarious, the chances of which aie not only diminished in the parts where the first powers of action prin- cipally reside, but also in every other part of the body. In offering my sentiments on the method of treating persons who are apparently drowned, I shall say, first, what I would recommend to have done; secondly, what I would wish might be avoided. When assistance is called in soon after the immersion, perhaps blow- ing air into the lungs may be sufficient to effect a recovery*; but if a considerable time, as an hour, has been lost, it will seldom be sufficient, the heart in all probability having by that time lost its intimate con- nexion with the lungs. It will in these cases, therefore, be proper to apply, mixed with the air, such stimulating medicines as the vapour of volatile alkali, which may easily be done, by holding S23irits of hartshorn * Perhaps the dephlogisticated air described by Dr. Priestley (oxygen gas) may prove more efficacious than common air. It is easily procured, and may be preserved in bottles or bladders for that purpose.