OF ABSORPTION BY VEINS. 309 reply lo Mr. Hewsou, that this discovery of Mr. II outer’s had been communicated to Dr. Cidlen by Dr. George Fordyce, and had materially influenced Dr. Monro’s opinions respecting the absorbent system. Mr. Hewson also informs us^ that prior to his own publication on the Absorbent System of Amphibia, Mr. Hunter had discovered and demonstrated to him the chyle, and we must suppose the lacteal vessels, of a crocodile. With respect to the absorbent system in fish, the discovery of this must be awarded to Mr. Hewson. As early as 1701 experiments had been instituted with a view to discover the func- tion of the lacteal vessels, indicated of old by Erasistratus, and rediscovered by Aselhus. Martin Lister and Musgrave satisfied themselves that coloured matter was taken up by these vessels, which they termed lacteal veins, from the intestine h Neverthe- less, until the observations and experiments of the Hunters, the lymphatics generally were believed by Haller and other physiologists to be simply continuations of capil- lary or lymphatic arteries, and they were supposed to have no other function than to carry back into the circulation the serum or lymph of the blood. Dr. William Hunter having observed that he could not inject the lymphatics from the arteries excepting the injection were extravasated in the cellular substance, but that he could readily in- ject the lymphatics both from the common cellular substance and that which assists in forming the parenchyma of the glands, as the testis, spleen, &c.; observing also that the course of the venereal poison, when introduced into the system, indicated that it was carried along by the lymphatics, affecting the inguinal glands when applied to the glans penis or prepuce, and in like manner affecting the glands of the armpits when applied to the hands, and the cervical glands when communicated l.*y the lips; per- ceiving also the close analogy of the lymphatics to the lacteal absorbeiits, in their val- vular structure and mode of termination; he concluded from all these circumstances that they had an analogous function; that they were not reflected capillary arteries, but originated from all the interstices and cavities of the body, forming the absorbing ves- sels of the general system, as the lacteals w'ere allowed to be of the alimentary canal. This doctrine was supported by the experiments of John Hunter given in the text, which were first published in 1762, while he was abroad with the army at Belleisle, by his brother. Dr. William Hunter, in the Medical Commentaries. It would seem, how- ever, that Mr. Hunter did not consider these alone as sufficiently conclusive to be sub- mitted to the public, since he left them in manuscript with his brother, who made use of them, four years afterwards, in the controversial essay with the Monros, while John was abroad with the army at Belleisle. They were unaccompanied by any additional proof or observation, but were considered by Dr. William Hunter as being decisive in depriving the veins of the power of absorbing altogether. Mr. Hunter, however, con- tinued these experiments in other classes, as is shown in the following manuscript note in the possession of Mr. Clift. “ The experiments upon the bird, to ascertain whether the mesenteric veins absorbed or not, were nearly the same with those made upon the ass, in 1758, M'ith musk, as also with spirits of wine; and although in those researches 1 did not discover the lacteals in the bird, yet I discovered that the red veins in the mesentery in them most probably did not absorb, because I never could find any of the liquors which had been thrown into the gut mixed with the blood of the veins of the mesentery; and which I look upon as one of the first steps towards proving another system.” Subsequent experiments, especially those of Tiedemann and Ginelin, Meyer * [See Experiments for transmitting blue-coloured Liquor into the Lacteals. Mus- grave, Phil. Trans., vol. xii. p. 996. Experiments for altering the Colour of the Chyle in the Lacteal Veins, by M. Lister, Phil. Trans., vol. xiii. p. 6. Powdered Blues pass into Lacteal Veins, ibid, vol. xxii. p. 819.]