428 OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. were therefore intended to have a tolerably well-regulated warmth, without which, of course, they are very uncomfortable and soon die ; and which makes not only a part of their internal oeconomy respecting the individual, but a part of their external or common oeconomy, and is therefore necessary to be known. The heat of bees is ascertainable by the thermometer, and I shall give the result of experiments made at two dilFerent seasons of the year. July 18th, at ten in the evening, wind northerly, thermometer at 54® in the open air, I introduced it into the top of a hive full of bees, and in less than five minutes it rose to 82®. I let it stand all night; at five in the morning it was down at 79®; at nine the same morning it had risen to 83°, and at one o’clock to 84°; and at nine in the evening it was down to 78®. December 30th, air at 35®, bees at 73®. Although bees support a heat nearly equal to that of a [quadruped, yet their external covering is not different from that of insects which do not; there is no difference between their coat and a common fly’s or wasp’s, nor are they fatter, all which makes them bad retainers of heat; therefore they are chilly, and in a cold too severe for them to be com- fortable in, they make up for their want of size singly and get into clusters. A single bee has so little power of keeping itself warm, that it presently becomes numbed, and almost motionless : a common night in summer will produce this effect. A cold cajDable of producing such effects kills them soon, by which means vast numbers die; therefore a common bee is obliged to feed and live in society to keep itself warm in cold weather. We know that the consumption of heat may be greater than the power of forming it; when that is the case we become sensible of it, and then take on such actions as are either instinctive, such as arise naturally out of the impression, or as reason, custom, or habit di- rect. Many animals upon the impression of cold, coil themselves up in their own fur, bringing all their extremities into the centre or hollow of the belly; birds bring their feet under the belly, and thrust their bill between their wing and body; many, if not all, go to the warmest places, either from instinctive principle or habit; but the bees have no other mode but forming clusters, and the larger the better. As they are easily affected by cold, their instinctive principle respecting cold is very strong, as likewise with regard to wet. I have seen a swarm hanging out at the door of a hive ready to take flight, and then return; a chill has come on of which I was not sensible, and in a few in proportion to the energy with which the functions (tf respiration and locomotion go on in the insect.]