123 CROP OF BREEDING PIGEONS. There is infinite variety in the means by which Nature provides for the support of the young in the second stage of animal life. In many insects it is effected by the female instinctively depositing the egg, or whatever contains the rudiments of the animal, in such a situation that, when hatched, it may be within reach of proper food; others, as the humble-bee and black-beetle *[Blatta]' collect a quantity of peculiar substance, which both serves as a nidus for the egg, and nourishment for the maggot, when the embryo arrives at that state. Most birds, and many of the bee-tribe, collect food for their young; when at a more advanced period the task of feeding them is performed by both male and female, with an exception in the common bee, the young ones of w'hich are not fed by either parent, but by the working-bees, which act the part of the nurse. There is likewise a number of animals capable of supplying immediately from their own bodies the nourishment proper for their offspring during this second stage, a mode of nourishment which has hitherto been supposed to be peculiar to that class of animals Avhich LInnseus calls Mammalia; nor has it, I imagine, been ever sus- pected to belong to any other. I have, however, in my inquiries concerning the various modes in which young animals are nourished, discovered that all of the dove kind are endowed with a similar power. The young pigeon, like the young quadruped, till it is capable of digesting the common food of its kind, is fed with a substance secreted for that purpose by the parent animal; not, as in the Mammalia, by the female alone, but also by the male, which, perhaps, furnishes this nutriment in a degree still more abun- dant. It is a common property of birds, that both male and female are equally employed in hatching, and in feeding their young in the second stage ; but this particular mode of nourishment, by means of a substance secreted in their own bodies, is peculiar to certain kinds, and is carried on in the crop. Besides the dove kind, I have some reason to suppose parrots to be endowed with the same faculty, as they have the power of throwing up the contents of the crop, and feeding one another. I have seen the cock parroquet regularly feed the hen, by first filling his own crop, and then supplying her from his beak. Parrots, maccaws, cockatoos, &c., when they are very fond of the person wdio feeds them, may likewise exercise of its tentacles, until it is finally cast off. The viviparous animals are the Mam- malia, and the nourishment alluded to is the lacteal secretion. The nutritious substance with which the oviparous animals continue for a short period to be supported after their exclusion from the egg is the yolk, which has then passed into the abdomen, where it is finally absorbed.]