136 ON ANIMALS PRODUCING HEAT. least in proportion to the quantity of brain in that class*. It is most pro- bable that it arises from some other principle ; a principle so connected with life that it can, and does, act independently of circulation, sensa- tion, and volition, and is that power which preserves and regulates the internal machine. This power of generating heat is in the highest per-, fection when the body is in health; and in many deviations from that state we find that its action is extremely uncertain and irregular, some- times rising higher than the standard, and at other times falling much below it. Instances of this we have in different diseases, and even in the same disease, within very short intervals of time. A very remark- able one fell under my own observation, in a gentleman who was seized with an apoplectic fit; and while he lay insensible in bed, covered with blankets, I found that his whole body would, in an instant, become ex - tremely cold in every part, continuing so for some time; and, as sud- denly, would become extremely hot. While this was going on alter- nately there was no sensible alteration in his pulse for several hours Being satisfied of the foregoing fact, that animals had a power of ge- nerating heat, I pursued the subject still further; not so much with a view to account for animal heat, as to observe the different phenomena, with the variations or difference in the heat in different animals. In the course of my experiments, having found variations in the degree of heat and cold in the same experiment, for which I could not account, I suspected that this might arise from some imperfection in the construc- tion of the thermometer. I mentioned to Mr. Ramsden my objections to the common construction of that instrument, and my ideas of one more perfect in its nature, and better adapted to the experiments in which I was engaged. He accordingly made me some very small ther- mometers, six or seven inches long, not above two twelfths of an inch thick in the stem, having the external diameter of the ball very little larger than that of the stem, on which was marked the freezing point. ^ [Although, from the experiments on vegetables subsequently given, it appears that vital heat is not dependent on a nervous system ; yet it has been shown that the pro- duction of heat in warm-blooded animals is modified by the nervous influence. See the Physiological Researches, ‘ On the Influence of the Brain on the action of the Heart, and on the generation of Animal Heat,’ by B. C. Brodie, F.R.S., Phil. Trans., vol. ci. p. 36; vol. cii, p. 380 ; also the experiments of Home and Mayo, Phil. Trans., vol. cxv, p. 7 ; and by Legallois, Annales de Chimie, t. iv. 1817.] ^ [Here ends the first paper in the 65th vol. of the Phil. Trans. The second com- munication commences as follows: “ In the course of a variety of experiments on ani- mals and vegetables, I have frequently observed that the result of experiments in the one has explained the (economy of the other, and pointed out some principle common to both; I have therefore collected some experiments which relate to the heat and cold of those substances;” and then proceeds as in the text.]