148 ON ANIMALS PRODUCING HEAT. about ten minutes had its heat reduced to 37°. Being allowed to stay ten minutes longer, the mixture at 13°, its heat was reduced to 35°. It was continued ten minutes more in the mixture at 20°, and its heat was reduced to 31°; nor did it sink lower, its tail beginning to freeze, and the animal now becoming very weak. It may be remarked, that it cooled much slower than many of the animals mentioned in the follow- ing experiments. The frog being in its structure more similar to the viper than to either the fowl or fish, I made the following experiments on that animal. Experiment XXXIV. I introduced the ball of the thermometer into its stomach, and the quicksilver stood at 44°. I then put the frog into a cold mixture, and the quicksilver sunk to 31°; the animal appeared almost dead, but recovered very soon: beyond this point it was not possible to lessen the heat without destroying the animal. But its de- crease of heat was quicker than in the viper, although the mixture was nearly the same. The next experiments were made on fishes. Experiment XXXV. In an eel, the heat in the stomach, which at first was at 37°, sunk, after it had been some time in the cold mixture, to 31°. The animal at that time appeared dead, but was found to be alive the next day. Experiment XXXVI. In a snail, whose heat was at 44°, it sunk, after it had been put into the cold mixture, to 31°, and then the ani- mal froze. Experiment XXXVII. Several leeches having been put into a bottle, and the bottle immersed in the cold mixture, the ball of the thermometer being placed in the middle of them, the quicksilver sunk to 31°; and by continuing the immersion for a sufficient time to destroy life, the quicksilver rose to 32°, and then the leeches froze. In all these experiments the animals when thaw^ed were found dead. Finding that animals of the imperfect classes will, without life being totally extinguished, admit of their heat being reduced to that point at which the dead solids and fluids freeze, but if sunk much below that, death must be the consequence, I wished therefore to be able to deter- mine to what degree the heat of the animal could be raised. Experiment XXXVIII. A healthy viper was placed in an atmo- sphere heated to 108°, and allowed to stay seven minutes ; when the heat of the animal in the stomach and anus was found to be 92-f°; be- yond which it could not be raised in the above state of the atmosphere. The same experiment was made upon frogs, with nearly the same result. Experiment XXXIX. An eel, very weak, its heat at 44°, which was