181 OF AIR-CELLS IN BIRDS. Some authors have considered the diploe in the cranium of a bird as a continuation of the mammillary process, and looked upon it as a circum- stance peculiar to singing birds, which is not really true. These facts, which had been formerly observed, led me in the year 1758 to make several experiments upon the breathing of birds, that might prove the free communication between the lungs and the before- mentioned parts. First, I made an opening into the belly of a cock, and having intro- duced a silver cannula, tied up the trachea. I found that the animal breathed by this opening, and might have lived; but by an inflammation in the bowels coming on, adhesions were produced, and the communi- cation was cut off. I next cut the wing through the os humeri, in another fowl, and tying up the trachea, as in the cock, found that the air passed to and from the lungs by the canal in this bone. The same experiment was made with the os femoris of a young hawk, and was attended with a similar result. But the passage of air through the divided parts, in both these experiments, especially in the last, was attended with more difficulty than in the former one; it was indeed so great as to render it impos- sible for the animal to live longer than evidently to prove that it breathed through the cut bone. I have made several preparations of these cells, by throwing into the trachea an injection, commonly called the corroding injection, which first filled the air-cells of the lungs, then all the others, such as the cells in the abdomen, anterior and superior part of the chest, axilla, os hu- meri, cells of the back-bone and thigh; and the whole being afterwards put into spirit of sea-salt, and corroded, the cast of injection came out entire. The singularity of these communications in birds put me upon con- sidering what might be their final intention. At first I supposed it might be intended to assist the act of flying, that being the circumstance which appears the most peculiar to birds; and it might be of service in that respect, I thought, by increasing the volume and strength with the same quantity of matter, without adding to the weight of the whole, which indeed would rather be diminished by the diflference of specific gravity between the external and internal air. This opinion was strengthened their internal supply of air. Camper states that it is received by the meatus auditorii, believing that birds had no Eustachian tubes: “ I’air entre dans le diploe du crane en- tier par les trous auditifs; car les oiseaux n’ont point de trompes d’Eustache comme les quadrupedes et les amphibies.” {Mem. de MaUiem. et de Physiqucy tom. vii. 1776, p. 334.)]