306 OF ABSORPTION BY VEINS. we should suppose the absorbed liquor must have been apparent if any had been taken up by the veins from the cavity of the intestine. “ After the animal was dead I blowed into a mesenteric vein, and the air found a passage into the cavity of the gut; though in making the experiment when the animal was alive, I could not force the milk by injection from the vein into the gut. “ Animal Fifth.—If any animal could be supposed a fitter subject for such experiments than a sheep, it would be an ass. He is not so large nor so strong but that he may be managed ; he is patient in the greatest degree ; his mesentery and vessels being larger, it is so much more easy to fix injecting pipes, make ligatures, &c.; and, what is a very great ad- vantage in making such experiments, his mesentery is very thin, with- out fat, so that the vessels are conspicuous and distinct. Hence it is easy to separate the artery from the vein, to fix pipes, to tie up anasto- mosing vessels by a needle, &c. “ Therefore 1 got an ass, and on the 24th of August, 1759*, put him upon his back in an open garden, and tied him fast to four stakes drove into the ground, then opened his abdomen, &c. “Experiment I. I poured a solution of musk in warm water into a piece of the intestine, and confined it there by two ligatures. In doing this the animal struggled, and a little of the liquor was spilt upon the outside of the intestine and mesentery. “ After waiting a little while, I opened with a lancet some lacteals of this part, which were full of a watery fluid, and catched a little of their contents in a small spoon. It smelled strongly of the musk, and though it could hardly be doubted that the musk had been taken up from the intestine by absorption, yet as some of the musk-solution had been spilt upon the external surface of the parts, and as it was impossible to col- lect the lymph from the lacteals without resting the edge of the spoon upon the mesentery, the smell of the spoon might be owing to that cir- cumstance. “ After this I wiped a vein upon the mesentery very clean, and opened it with a lancet: a gentleman who had kept out of the way of the musk came immediately with a clean spoon, and filled it from the stream of blood without touching any part of the animal, and carried it directly off, but it had not the least smell of musk. “ Experiment II. We j)oured some starch-water, made very blue with indigo, into a part of the gut in the same manner as in some of the former experiments, tied the vein and artery of this part, then punctured the vein close to the ligature, and pressed out almost all the blood; then * In presence of Doctors Macaulay and Michaelson, and of Messrs. Edwards, White, and Gee.