ON THE GLANDS CALLED VESICULiE SEMINALES. 27 In the beaver the bags are convoluted; their ducts have no commu- nication with the vasa deferentia, but both the one and the other open on the verumontanum. In the Guinea-pig they are composed of long cylindrical tubes, and lie in the cavity of the belly, are smooth on their external surface, and do not communicate with the vasa deferentia. They contain a thick bluish transparent substance, which is softest near the fundus, and be- comes firmer towards the openings into the urethra, where it is as solid as common cheese. From this circumstance, and what is observed in the horse, the fundus appears to be the part that secretes this substance, which is very different in colour and consistence from the contents of the vasa deferentia, and is often found in broken pieces in the urethra. To be more certain that the substance contained in these bags was not the secretion of the testicle, I extracted one of the testicles of a Guinea-pig; and six months afterwards gave it the female. As soon as the action of copulation was over (in which all the parts containing semen should naturally have emptied themselves) I killed the animal, and upon examination found the vesicula of the perfect side, and that of the side from which the testicle had been removed, both filled with a substance in every respect similar. It will scarcely be alleged that this substance had been contained in the bag before the extirpation of the testicle; nor could it be semen, which must have been all thrown out in the previous connexion with the female. To ascertain that the contents of the vesiculse are not discharged in- to the vagina of the female with the semen in the act of emission, I killed a female Guinea-pig as soon as the male had left her, and ex- amined with attention what was contained in the vagina and uterus; in neither could I find any of the mucus of the vesiculse, which from its firmness must have been easily detected. In the hedgehog these bags are very large, being more than twice the size of the vesiculae in the human subject. Many animals have no such bags; and I believe they are wanting in the greater part of that class which live chiefly upon animal food : they are, however, to be found in some of them, and the hedgehog is an example a. There is no apparent difference in the testicles, vasa defe- rentia, or semen of the animals which have vesiculse and of .those which have none; and the mode of copulation, as far as these bags can be con- cerned, is very similar in both. In birds, as far as I have yet observed, there is nothing analogous to * [The vesiculae seminales are wanting in all the Ferae with the exception of the In- sectivora; also in the Ruminants, in the carnivorous Cetacea, and in all the Marsupiata; they are equally wanting in the insectivorous Monotremata, which of all mammiferous animals approximate most closely to the oviparous Vertebrata.]