OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. Ill experiment; yet I took two ducks, and fed one with barley, the other with sprats, for about a month, and killed both at the same time : when they were dressed, the one fed wholly with sprats was hardly eatable, it tasted so strongly of fish. Although bones are in part composed of animal substance, and so far digestible, yet they require stronger powers to digest them than common meat, from the animal substance being guarded by the earth. Thus the animal part of a bone is less easily soluble in an alkali than flesh, or than even the animal part when deprived of its earth by an acid; nor will a bone, being guarded by the calcareous earth, submit to putre- faction so readily as meat; therefore animals which live upon others, and swallow them whole, as the heron, digest bone with more ease than the crow or magpie, that are not accustomed to swallow bones, but commonly pick the flesh only. The degree of ease or difficulty with which substances are digested, will not only arise from a difference in solidity, but from a difference in the structure of the parts themselves; brain, liver, muscle, and tendon being digestible in the order here put down. There is not only a difference in the degree of facility with which the various kinds of natural food are digested, but these can also be made to undergo changes by art, which render them still more easy of diges- tion ; for it appears from my experiments that boiled and roasted, and even putrid meat, is easier of digestion than raw, which, in the two first, may be supposed to arise from their juices being coagulated; but the same reason will not hold good with regard to the putrid^. A raw egg is thought more easy of digestion than an egg hard boiled, although the raw one must be coagulated in the stomach before it can be digested; and it has likewise been observed, that what is easy of digestion in one stomach will not be so in another; but such cases may probably arise from the stomach not being in a healthy state. In many animals the whole of the food does not appear to be digested, the substance in part being found in the faeces; for if a dog is fed with tallow, his excrements will consist of a somewhat firm unctuous sub- stance, so that the oil is only digested in part. The circumstance of * [From the various experiments instituted by Sir Astley Cooper on the digestibility of different substances, it appears that pork is more digestible than mutton, this than veal, while beef is the least digestible of any. In feeding dogs with determinate quan- tities of each, and opening them at the expiration of a given period, it happened that in some instances the pork and mutton had entirely disappeared, while the beef re- mained but little altered. Fish and cheese were also found to be very digestible sub- stances. Potatoes were digestible in a less degree. Boiled veal was found to be two thirds more digested than the same meat roasted, &c. Muscular tissue, skin, gristle, tendons, bone, were digestible in the order here set down.]