AND CECONOMY OF WHALES. 351 softer texture, with a thinner cuticle. This part is possessed of the greatest elasticity; why it should be so elastic is difficult to say, as it covers the thorax, which can never be increased in size ; yet there must be some peculiar circumstance in the oeconomy of the species requiring this structure, which we as yet know nothing of*^. The skin is intended for various purposes. It is the universal cover- ing given for the defence of all kinds of animals ; and that it might an- swer this purpose well, it is the seat of one of the senses^. Of the Mode of catching their Food, The mouths of animals are the first parts to be considered respecting ® [A strong and extensive cutaneous muscle is intimately connected wth the skin, but is separated by a loose cellular texture from the deep-seated muscles.] [The skin of the Cetacea has been made the subject of a special and minute study by MM. Breschet and Roussel de Vauzeme, who distinguish in it, as in that of other Mammalia, six chief constituents, which either penetrate or are superimposed upon one another, as follows: 1. The derm or corimn {le derme)y a dense fibrous cellular texture, which contains and protects all the other parts of the skin. In the w'hale it is constantly white and opake, and its peripheral surface presents a series of papillae, the intervals of which are occupied by the epidermis, which forms for each a sheath. 2. The papillary bodies {les corpspapillaires) consist of papillae covered by the derm. They have a nacreous lustre, and are several lines in length in the whale, but are much shorter in the common dolphin and porpesse. These papillae are composed of fibres penetrated by vessels ; they originate from the subcutaneous nervous plexus, and re- turn back again to the same; the derm serves merely as a sheath to the papillae, the extremities of which exercise the sense of touch. 3. The sudorific apparatus {Vappareil sudorifique) consists of soft, elastic, spiral ca- nals, which extend through the entire thickness of the derm, and open in the inter- vals of the papillae by an orifice generally closed by a small epidermic valve. 4. The inhalent apparatus {Vappareil d’inhalation) is formed by extremely delicate canals, which are smooth, straight, silvery, branched, and very easily ruptured : they originate in a plexus extended in the dermis beneath the sudorific canals, anastomose together, and are provided with partitions. The lymphatic vessels have no connection with these canals, which communicate directly with the arteries and veins. They are absorbing canals. 5. The mucous apparatus {Vappareil hlennogene). This is composed of secerning glands and excretory ducts, which open between the papillae like the orifices of the preceding canals. It is wholly contained in the derm, and produces a mucous mate- rial, which by desiccation (or condensation) becomes the cuticle. In the whales this cuticle acquires an extreme thickness: it is much thinner in the dolphins^. 6. The colorific apparatus {Vappareil chromatogene) is hkewise composed of secern- ing glands and excretory ducts ; it is situated in the first superior (peripheral) layers of the corium on the right and left sides of the outlet of the excretory ducts of the pre- ceding apparatus, and it pom’s out the coloured product at the same point where the mucous matter is excreted, where it stains it.] ^ [In the Cachalot the external layer of cuticle is extremely fine, resembling gold- beaters’ skin.]