371 AND CECONOMY OF WHALES. After these canals emerge from the bones near the external opening, they become irregular, and have several sulci passing out laterally, o irregular forms, with corresponding eminences. The structure of these eminences is muscular and fatty, but less muscular than the tongue of a quadruped. In the porpoise there are two sulci on each side ; two large and two small, with corresponding eminences of different shapes, the large ones being thrown into folds. The spermaceti whale has the least of this structure; the external opening in it comes further forwards towards the anterior part of the head, and is consequently longer than in others of this order. Near to its opening externally, it forms a large sulcus, and on each side of this canal is a cartilage, which runs nearly its whole length. In all that I have examined, this canal, forwards from the bones, is entirely lined with a thick cuticle of a dark colour. In those w^hich have only one external opening, it is transverse, as in the porpoise, grampus, bottle-nose and spermaceti whale, &c.: where double, they are longitudinal, as in the piked whale, and the large whalebone whale. These openings form a passage for the air in respi- ration to and from the lungs : for it would be impossible for these ani- mals to breathe air through the mouth; indeed, I believe the human species alone breathe by the mouth, and in them it is mostly from habit; for in quadrupeds the epiglottis conducts the air into the nose. In the whole of this tribe, the situation of the opening on the upper surface of the head is well adapted for this purpose, being the first part that comes to the surface of the water in the natural progressive motion of the animal; therefore it is to be considered principally as a respira- tory organ, and where it contains the organ of smell, that is only se- condary. As the animals of this order do not live in the medium which they inspire, the organs conducting the air to the lungs are in some sort particularly constructed, that the water in which they live may not in- terfere with the air they breathe. The projecting glottis, which has been described, passes into the posterior nostrils, by which means it crosses the fauces, dividing them into two passages. The enlargement of the termination of the glottis, ol)served in some of them, would seem to be intended to pre- vent its retraction : but, as it seems confined to the porpoise and gram- pus, it may, perhaps, in them answer some other purpose. The beginning of the posterior nostrils, which answers to the pala- tum molle in the quadruped, having a sphincter, the glottis is gi'asped by it, which renders its situation still more secure, and the passages 2 B 2