156 •ON THE HEAT OF VEGETABLES. EXPERIMENTS AND OBSERVATIONS ON VEGETABLES, WITH RESPECT TO THE POWER OF PRODUCING HEAT^ T. O ascertain whether vegetables could he frozen, and afterwards re- tain all their properties when thawed, or had the same power of gene- rating heat with animals, I made several experiments. Vegetable juices when squeezed out of a green plant, such as cabbage and spinage, froze in a cold of about 29°; and between 29° and 30° thawed again, which is about 4° above the point at which the animal juices freeze and thaw. Experiment I. I took a young growing bean, about three inches long in the stalk, and put it into the leaden vessel with common water, and then immersed the whole into the cold mixture. The water very soon froze all round it; however, the bean itself took up a longer time in freezing than the same quantity of water would have done; yet it did freeze, and was afterwards thawed and planted in the ground, but it soon withered. The same experiment was made upon the bulbous roots of tulips, and with the same success. Experiment II. A young Scotch fir, which had two complete shoots and a third growing, and which consequently was in its third year, was put into the cold mixture, which was between 15° and 17°. The last shoot froze with great difficulty, which appeared to be owing in some measure to the repulsion between the plant and the water. When thawed, the young shoot was found flaccid. It was planted; the first and second shoot we found retained life, while the third, or growing shoot, withered. Experiment III. A young shoot of growing oats, with three leaves, had one of the leaves put into the cold mixture at 22°, and it soon was frozen. The roots were next put in, but did not freeze ; and when put into the ground the whole grew, excepting the leaf which had been frozen. The same experiment was made upon the leaves and roots of a young bean, and attended with the same success. Experiment IV. A leaf taken from a growing bean was put into the cold mixture and frozen, and afterwards thawed, which served as a ® [This paper includes those portions of the two communications to the Royal So- ciety, On the Heat of Animals and Vegetables, which were omitted by Hunter in tlie * Animal (Economy.’ Sec Phil. Trans., Ixv., 1775, p, 450.]