30 ON THE GLANDS CALLED VESICUL.E SEMINALES. have been so formed as merely to assist in the expulsion of the urine. To illustrate this opinion, let us observe what is the difference between these parts in the perfect male and in a male that has been deprived of the testicles when very young, at an age in which they have had no such influence upon the animal oeconomy as to affect the growth of the other parts. In the perfect male the penis is large; the corpora cavernosa* being capable of dilatation. The corpus spongiosum is very vascular f; that part of the canal which is called the bulb is considerably enlarged, forming a cavity; and the musculi acceleratores urinae, as they are termed, are strong and healthy. In many animals which have a long penis, the muscular fibres are continued forwards to the end of it; and in others, though not extended so far, they are very large. On the contrary, in the castrated animal the penis is small, and not capable of much dilatation; the corpus spongiosum is less vascular; the cavity at the bulb is little larger than the canal of the urethra; and the muscles are white, small, and have a ligamentous appearance. The same observations are true, if applied to the erectores penis. The penis of the perfect male is of a sufficient length, when erected, to reach to the further end of the vagina of the female. In the castrated animal it is much shorter, and erections having then become unneces- sary, the parts which should project often adhere to the inside of the prepuce. The erectores muscles in the perfect male are strong enough * The cells of the corpora cavernosa are muscular, although no such appearance is to be observed in men; for the penis in erection is not at all times equally distended. The penis in a cold day is not so large in erection as in a warm one; which, probably, arises from a kind of spasm that could not act upon it if it were not muscular. In the horse the parts composing the cells of the penis appear evidently muscular to the eye; and in a horse just killed they contract upon being stimulated®. f It may not be improper to observe,'that the corpus spongiosum urethrae and glans penis are not spongy or cellular, but made up of a plexus of veins. This structure is discernible in the human subject, but much more distinctly seen in many animals, as the horse, &c. exclusive relation of the penis to the functions of the testes is afforded by the discoveries in natural history which have been made since the time of Hunter. Thus, in those re- markable Australian quadrupeds the Ornithorhynchus and Echidna, which form the passage from the mammiferous to the oviparous vertebrates, the penis, although perfo- rated through its whole extent, does not carry off the urine, which escapes by the cloaca, but the urethra is destined solely for the passage of the fecundating fluid during the time of the coitus.] a [The disposition of the muscular fasciculi of this part is chiefly longitudinal, inter- lacing in an undulating manner with the transverse tendinous fibres. They are most numerous near the termination of the corpora cavernosa, and gradually diminish as they approach the origin. When examined with a high magnifying power the ulti- mate fibres of these fasciculi exhibit, but in a fainter degree, the transverse striae cha- racteristic of the voluntary muscular fibre.]