OBSERVATIONS ON SOME FOSSIL BONES. 476 the hare kind, and the bones of birds; yet there are some of a small dog or fox, and likewise shells. Those in Dalmatia appear to be mostly of the ruminating tribe; yet I saw a part of the os hyoides of a horse ; but those from Germany are mostly carnivorous. From these facts we should be inclined to suppose that their accumulation did not arise from any instinctive mode of living, as the same mode could not suit both carnivorous and herbivorous animals^. In considering animals respecting their situation upon the globe, there are many which are peculiar to particular climates, and others that are less confined, as herrings, mackerel, and salmon; others again which probably move over the whole extent of the sea, as the shark, porpus, and whale tribe; while many shellfish must be confined to one spot^. If the sea had not shifted its situation more than once, and was to leave the land in a very short time, then we could determine what the climate had formerly been by the extraneous fossils of the stationary animals, for those only would be found mixed with those of passage ; but if the sea moves from one place to another slowly, then the remains of animals of different climates may be mixed, by those of one climate moving over those of another, dying, and being fossilized; but this I am afraid can- not be made out. By the fossils we may, however, have some idea how the bones of the land animals fossilized may be disposed with respect to those of the sea. If the sea should have occupied any space that never had been dry land prior to the sea’s being there, the extraneous fossils can only be those of sea animals ; but each part will have its particular kind of those that are stationary mixed with a few of the amphibia, and of sea birds, in those parts that were the skirts of the sea. I shall suppose that when the sea left this place it moved over land where both vegetables and land animals had existed, the bones of which will be fossilized, as also those of the sea animals; and if the sea continued long here, which a remarkable proportion of Edentata, some of them of gigantic proportions, but all protected by a bony armour analogous to that of the armadillos, which are peculiar to South America.] * [Mr. Lyell thus describes some of the circumstances under which the bones of animals are accumulated at Gibraltar: “ At the north extremity of the rock are per- pendicular fissures, on the ledges of which a number of hawks nestle and rear their young in the breeding season. They throw down from their nests the bones of small birds, mice, and other animals, on which they feed, and these are gradually united into a breccia of angular fragments of the decomposing limestone with a cement of red earth.” (Principles of Geology, vol. iii. p. 158.)] ^ [For a full development of the relation which the geographical distribution of animals bears to the science of Oryctology, or Fossil Remains, the reader is referred to the second and third volumes of LyelPs Principles of Geology.]