OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION, 81 SOME OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. The paper which I formerly presented to the Royal Society, “ On the Stomach itself being digested after Death,” was published in 1772, in the 62nd. volume of the Philosophical Transactions, and has attracted the attention of Spallanzani^ and others. In the course of these my observations I shall make some remarks upon the experiments and opinions of these gentlemen, compare them with those of Reaumur^, and, having given some general facts of my own upon digestion, shall conclude by adding a copy of the above-mentioned paper, with the hope that others will take up the subject in a more enlarged point of view, and prosecute an inquiry which is of so much consequence in the in- vestigation of the operations of the animal oeconomy. I cannot at pre- sent spare sufficient time to give my opinions at large on this subject, with all the experiments and observations I have made upon it; but as soon as I have leisure I shall lay them before the public. To discover new parts has been a principal object in the researches of the young or practical anatomist; but the connexion, arrangement, mode of action, and uses of the whole, or of particular organs, have more commonly been reserved for the consideration of those whose views were extended further, and whose powers of reasoning had been en- larged by habits of observation and inquiry. Curious and speculative men have likewise made attempts in this way, but often without being sufficiently acquainted with the structure of the parts they were about to consider, and consequently ill informed respecting their relations and connexions with one another. Not contented to reason from those which were most obvious, which might have led to useful knowledge, they have been directed by what best suited their fancy, and have prin- cipally attempted the most obscure and intricate. Generation, or the mode of continuing the species, and digestion, or the means of preserv- ing the individual, have been with them the great objects of inquiry; yet it does not appear that they have been very successful. Although ® [Spallanzani’s observations on digestion appeared first in his work called Fisica Animale e Fegetahile, 12nao, 1782; a translation of which was published in London, with the title ‘ Dissertations relative to the Natural History of Animals and Vegetables,* in 1784.] [“Surla Digestion des Oiseaux,” Mem. de VAcad, des Scmices de Paris, 1752, pp. 266—307, and pp. 461—495.] VOL. IV. G