OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. 430 lost, this attachment is broke ; they give up industry, probably die, 'or we may suppose, join some other hive. This is not the case with those of this tribe whose queen singly forms a colony; for although the queen is destroyed, yet they go on with that work which is their lot, as the wasp, hornet, and humble bee. Most probably the whole oeconomy of the bee, which we so much admire, belongs to the non-breeders, and depends on their instinctive powers being set to work by the presence of the breeders, that being their only enjoyment; therefore when we talk of the wonderful ceconomy of bees, it is chiefly the labourers at large we are to admire, although the queen gets the principal credit for the extent of their instinctive properties. This oeconomy, in its appearances and operations, is somewhat simi- lar to human society, but very different in its first causes and mode of conduct. The human species sets up its own standard; the bee has one set up by nature, and therefore fulfils all the necessary purposes. This standard of influence, which is the breeder, is called the queen, and I shall keep to the name, although I do not allow her voluntary influence or power. The non-breeders are what compose the hive, or what may be called the community at large ; and the males are mere males : each of these parts of the community I shall hereafter consider separately. To take up the common bee in any one period of the year, or in other words, in any one month, and carry it round to the same, and observe what happens in that time, is probably including the whole oeconomy of bees; for although they may live more than one year, which I believe is not known, from its not being easily ascertained, yet each year can only be a repetition of the last, as I conceive they are complete in the first; therefore the history of one year may be said to make a whole, and of course it is not material at what time in the circle we begin the history. Perhaps the best time to begin the history of such insects as only come to full growth the season they are bred, and live through the winter, and breed the summer following, is when they emerge from the torpid state, and begin to breed ; but it might be thought that the common bee is an exception to this rule, because they begin early in the spring to breed, generally before they can be observed ; and as they breed to form a colony, which is to go otf from the old stock, in order to set out anew, it might seem most natural to begin with this colony, and trace it through its various actions of life for one year, when it as it were regenerates itself, and comes round to the same point again that the old stock was in when it threw off this colony. Bees, like every other animal that is taken care of in the time of