139 ON ANIMALS PRODUCING HEAT. about the size of walnuts, and put them in the same situation, allowing them only to melt in part, that the application of cold might be better kept up, occasionally spitting out the water arising from the solution. Having continued this for ten minutes, I found, on introducing my ther- mometer, that it fell to 77°; so that the mouth at this part had lost 20° of heat. The thermometer gradually rose to 97° again; but did not in this experiment sink so low as it would have done in the hand, if a piece of ice had been held in it for the same length of time. Perhaps the sur- face under the tongue being surrounded with warm parts renders it next to an impossibility to cool it below that degree; but I rather suspect that such parts as the hand will allow of greater latitude in this respect, from having insensibly acquired the habit of varying the degree of cold, and becoming of course less susceptible of its impressions, and therefore less easily excited. As a further proof that the more perfect animals are capable of vary- ing their heat in some measure according to the external heat applied, 1 shall adduce the following experiments made on the human subject. The mouth being a part so frequently in contact with the external atmosphere in the action of breathing, whatever is put into it may be supposed to be influenced by that atmosphere; this will always render an experiment made in that part, relative to heat and cold, somewhat uncertain. I imagined that the urethra would answer better, because, being an internal cavity, it can only be influenced by heat and cold applied to the external skin of the parts. I imagined also that, what- ever effects the application of heat and cold might have, they would sooner take place in the urethra, as being a projecting part, than in any other part of the body; and therefore, if living animal substance was in any degree subject to the common laws of matter in this respect, the urethra would be readily affected. To determine this I procured a per- son who allowed me to make such experiments as I thought necessary. Experiment II. I introduced the ball of my thermometer into the urethra about an inch; which having remained there about a minute, the quicksilver rose to 92°; at two inches it rose to 93° ; at four inches to 94°; and when the ball had got as far as the bulb of the urethra" where it was surrounded by warm parts, the quicksilver rose to 97°. Experiment III. These parts being immersed for one minute in water, heated only to 65°, and the thermometer introduced about an inch and a half into the urethra, the quicksilver rose to 79°; which was repeated several times with the same result. To discover if there were any difference in the quickness of the transition of heat and cold in liv- ^ ing and dead parts, and to determine if the extent to which each would go were likewise different, I procured a dead penis, for the purpose of