340 OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE Of the Bones, The bones alone, in many animals, when properly united into what is called the skeleton, give the general shape and character of the ani- mal. Thus a quadruped is distinguished from a bird, and even one quadruped from another; it only requiring a skin to be thrown over the skeleton to make the species known. But this is not so decidedly the case with this order of animals, for the skeleton in them does not give us the true shape. An immense head, a small neck, few ribs, and in many a short sternum and no pelvis, with a long spine terminating in a point, require more than a skin being laid over them to give the regular and characteristic form of the animal. The bones of the anterior extremity give no idea of the shape of a fin, the form of which depends wholly upon its covering. The different parts of the skeleton are so inclosed, and the spaces between the pro- jecting parts are so filled up, as to be altogether concealed, giving the animal externally an uniform and elegant form, resembling an insect enveloped in its chrysalis coat. The bones of the head are in general so large as to render the cavity which contains the brain but a small part of the whole ; while in the human species and in birds this cavity constitutes the principal bulk of the head. This is, perhaps, most remarkable in the spermaceti whale; for, on a general view of the bones of the head, it is impossible to de- termine where the cavity of the skull lies till led to it by the foramen m.agnum occipitale. The same remark is applicable to the large whale- bone and bottle-nose whale ; but in the porpoise, where the brain is larger in proportion to the size of the animal, the skull makes the prin- cipal part of the head. Some of the bones in one genus differ from those of another. The lower jaw is an instance of this. In the spermaceti and bottle-nose whales, the grampus, and the porpoise, the lower jaws, especially at the posterior ends, resemble each other; but in both the large and small whalebone whales the shape differs considerably. The number of some ])articular bones varies likewise very much. The piked whale has seven vertebrae in the neck, twelve which may be reckoned to the back, and twenty-seven to the tail, making forty-six in the whole**. » [In the skeleton of the Balcena rostrata preserved in the Museum of the College of Surgeons, there are only eleven pairs of ribs, and two or three vertebrae are wanting at the extremity of the tail; but the total number of vertebrae could not have exceeded fifty. In the Baleenoptera Boops the number of vertebrae exceeds sixty; there being seven cervical, fourteen dorsal, and fi'om forty-one to forty-four caudal vertebrae. In the skeleton of this species, exhibited in the year 1827, in London, at Charing-cross, sixty- two vertebrae were distinguishable, and two or three more must have been concealed in the portion of the tail which had been preserved in aitu. There were fourteen pairs