CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 226 ones; they may be broad and thin, or hollowed and circular, making rings ; all which varieties of size and shape are connected w’ith their ac- tion and use, and have induced anatomists to give them different names, as teres major, latissimus dorsi, longus colli, palmaris brevis, sphincter oris, &c., rhomhoides, deltoides, pyramidalis, &c. &c. The form and size of muscles are adapted to the uses in which they are employed; and these in general arise from the nature of the parts or joints to be moved. In some muscles the position of the whole leads to the general direc- tion of all its fibres; but this does not always happen, being the case only in muscles of a more simple construction. A muscle, for example, lies between the os hyoides and the upper end of the sternum, which two points lying nearly in the same plane would lead one to presuppose the fibres of such a muscle to be rectilineal, which is really the case. The figure of the muscle often shows the motion of the joint which it moves, particularly if it is a simple motion. This is the case in the rectilineal muscles and those which are nearly so, or those which are radiated, as the pectoralis, diaphragm, &c. The different kinds of Muscles. Muscles are more or less complex, arising generally from the different dispositions of their fibres, which difference is owing to the manner of their arising and being inserted, more particularly the former; and hence we say, muscles are straight, broad, radiated, half-penniform, complete- penniform, and complex. The most simple muscle would be one whose fibres are in the direc- tion of its body, or in a straight line between the two resisting points, and should be called rectilineal; but there is not in the human body a muscle truly rectilineal, and from what has been observed of the dispo- sition of the muscles and their tendons, also of their origins, it is hardly possible to have one. The straight muscles have fewer fibres in proportion to their size than the oblique, therefore their powers are less; some are round, or nearly so; others are flat and broad : some of these last are radiated. The half-penniform muscle, although nearly as simple as any in the body, appears to be the first stage towards combination. It is composed of a series of fibres, arising from a bone, tendon, or fascia, but more com- monly a tendon, of which the insertion runs nearly parallel to the origin, representing a quill with one side of the feathers taken off. This dispo- sition of fibres, from the mode of origin or general disposition of the bones and fascia above described, is almost as common as any in the body.