128 ON THE GILLAROO-TROUT. end in a very thin cuticle, A^'hich lines the passages of the oesophagus and intestine for a little way, and at the other end is lost in the same manner in the membranous bag. The two large muscles may be considered as a pair of jaws, whose teeth are occasionally supplied, being small rough stones or pebbles which the animal swallows, which from the feeling of the tongue can distinguish such as are proper from those which are not, instantly drop- ping out of its mouth such as are smooth and otherwise unfit for the purpose. Some birds with gizzards have also a craw or crop, which serves as a reservoir, and for softening the grain ; but as all of them have not this organ, it is not to our present purpose. There are other animals, besides this class of birds, which masticate their food in the stomach ; hut teeth are placed there by Nature : of this kind are crabs and lobsters. The gradation from gizzard to stomach is made by the muscular sides becoming weaker and weaker, and the food keeps pace with this change, varying gradually from vegetable to animal^. In one point of view, there- fore, food may be considered as a first principlCj with respect to which the digestive organs with their appendages act but as secondary parts, being adapted to and determined by the food as the primary object. We find then that in all granivorous animals there is an apparatus for the mastication of the food, although often differing in construction and situation; but in true carnivorous animals, of whatever tribe, mastica- tion not being so necessary, they have no apparatus for that purpose. The teeth of such quadrupeds as are carnivorous serve chiefly to pro- cure food and prepare it for deglutition; the same thing is performed in the true carnivorous birds by their beak and talons, whose office it is to procure the aliment and fit it for deglutition, corresponding in this respect with the teeth of the others. i\pplying this reasoning to fisli, it seems, at first sight, as if there were no occasion in them for that variety of structure in the digestive organs as is found in the before- mentioned quadrupeds and birds, the food of fish being principally of one sort, namely animal; which, however, with regard to the digestive powers, is to be distinguished into two kinds, viz. common soft fish and shell-fish. Such fish as live on the first kind have, like the carnivorous quadrujieds and birds, no apparatus for mastication, their teeth being intended merely for catching the food and fitting it to be swallowed. But the shells of the second kind of food render some degree of masti- * [The gizzards of birds which live on hard-coated coleopterous insects are stronger than those which have to digest soft pulpy fruits.]