89 OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. governor) ordered a table to be spread for us, with cold ham and fowls, which only we three sat down to, and in a short time dispatched more than ten men with common appetites would have done. It is amazing that our eating to that excess we had done, from the time we first got among these kind Indians, had not killed us; we were never satisfied, and used to take all opportunities, for some months after, of filling our pockets when we were not seen, that we might get up two or three times in the night to cram ourselves. Captain Cheap used to declare that he was quite ashamed of himself."" Spallanzani has made several attempts to prove what few will sub- scribe to, that stones in the gizzards of birds are of no use towards the breaking or grinding down the grain; and that they are picked up without design. These stones have long been supposed to answer the purposes of trituration, and have been considered as affording assistance to the stomach, in the manner of teeth, and of course as being neces- sary to the act of digestion. Spallanzani combats this opinion; but as stones are universally found in gizzards, and it was necessary to account for the mode of their being conveyed there, he attributes it to chance. But we find that the gizzards which have most occasion for them, and are most able to use them, are likewise best supplied with them: to corroborate which facts may be added what we observ’^ed before, that in the larger gizzards are found the largest pebbles. In a turkey two hundred were found; in a goose, a thousand; which could not depend entirely upon chance. In trying whether the stones were of service, Spallanzani introduced tubes, needles, and lancets into gizzards in which there were but very few stones, yet found them broken. In this ex- periment these substances had been forty-eight hours in the gizzards; whereas in the former experiments, with the-same kind of tubes, thirty- six hours w'as the longest time; in another, eighteen hours; and in an- other, the breaking of them was begun in less than two hours ; therefore the experiments were not perfectly fair, as the times w'ere not equal. What he thinks the most conclusive is, that where he had taken care there should be no stones, the hard indigestible substances w’ere acted upon much in the same way as when there were stones; but in this ex- periment he does not give the time, which is very accurately stated in most of the others. He discovered that the inner surface of the stomach was not hurt by such substances ; and indeed it is scarcely possible for the inner coat of the stomach of a fowl to be pierced by such as are even sharp-pointed, the quantity of its motion being so inconsiderable as hardly to make them pass through its inner coat. But the principal cause of their being harmless arises from the motion being lateral, and not pressing perpen-