OBSERVATIONS ON SOME FOSSIL BONES. 471 their external surface has only acquired a covering of crystallized earth, and little or no change has taken place in their internal structure. height of summer, been found below temperate. Caution is therefore necessary to its visitors; for it is remarkable that people, having spent any time in this or the other caverns, always on their coming out again appear pale, which in part may be owing to the coolness of the air, and in part likewise to the particular exhalations within the caves. A very narrow, winding, and troublesome passage opens further into a “ Third cave or chamber, of a roundish form, and about thirty feet diameter, covered all over with stalactites. Very near its entrance there is a perpendicular descent of about twenty feet, into a dark and frightful abyss; a ladder must be brought to descend into it, and caution is necessary in using it, on account of the rough and slippery sta- lactites. When you are down, you enter into a gloomy cave, of about fifteen feet diameter and thirty feet high, making properly but a segment of the third cave. “ In the passage to this third cave, some teeth and fragments of bones are found; but coming down to the pit of the cave, you are every way surrounded by a vast heap of animal remains. The bottom of this cave is paved with a stalactical crust of near a foot in thickness; large and small fragments of all sorts of bones are scattered every- where on the surface of the ground, or are easily drawn out of the mouldering rubbish. The very walls seem filled with various and innumerable teeth and broken bones. The stalactical covering of the uneven sides of the cave does not reach quite down to its bottom, whereby it plainly appears that this vast collection of animal rubbish some time ago filled a higher space in the cave, before the bulk of it sunk by mouldering. “ This place is in appearance very like a large quarry of sandstones; and indeed the largest and finest blocks of osteolithical concretes might be hewn out in any number, if there was but room enough to come to them, and to carry them out. This bony rock has been dug into in different places, and everywhere undoubted proofs have been met with, that its bed, or tliis osteolithical stratum, extends every way far beneath and through the limestone rock into which and through which these caverns have been made; so that the queries suggesting themselves about the astonishing numbers of animals buried here confound all speculation. “ Along the sides of this third cavern there are some narrower openings, leading into different smaller chambers, of which it cannot be said how deep they go. In some of them bones of smaller animals have been found, such as jaw-bones, vertebrae, and tibiae, in large heaps. The bottom of this cave slopes toward a passage seven feet high, and about as wide, being the entrance to a “ Fourth cave, twenty feet high and fifteen wide, lined all round with a stalactical crust, and gradually sloping to another steep descent, where the ladder is wanted a second time, and must be used with caution as before, in order to get into a cave forty feet high and about half as wide. In those deep and spacious hollows, worked out through the most solid mass of rock, you again perceive with astonishment immense numbers of bony fragments of all kinds and sizes, sticking everywhere in the sides of the cave, or lying on the bottom. This cave also is surrounded by several smaller ones; in one of them rises a stalactite of uncommon bigness, being four feet high and eight feet diameter, in the form of a truncated cone. In another of those side grot- tos, a very neat stalactical pillai’ presents itself, five feet in height, and eight inches in diameter. ^ “ The bottom of all these grottos is covered with true animal mould, out of which may be dug fragments of bones. “ Besides the smaller hollows, spoken of before, round this fourth cave, a very nar- row opening has been discovered in one of its corners. It is of very difficult access,