PREFACE. XXXll invertebrata, than that which was generally accepted at the pe^ riod when Hunter wrote. We associate this progress with Hunter’s superior knowledge of the organization and oeconomy of animals as its just and natural cause, and we proceed to ad- duce additional evidences of Hunter’s attempts to frame a na- tural arrangement of animals. Perceiving that the modifications of the heart alone were in- adequate to the formation of a natural and symmetrical classi- fication of animals, he next tested the efficiency of characters taken from conditions of the respiratory system, and proposed the following scheme : The first class includes all those animals which have lungs with cells through the whole, and a diaphragm. The second class, all those which have their lungs at- tached to the ribs, so as to confine them to their place. The third class, all those whose lungs come into the belly and are loose. “ The fourth class, all those whose lungs are in their necks, called gills. The fifth class, all those whose lungs are in their sides In this scheme we have most exact and concise characters of the four classes of vertebrate animals, as afforded by the breathing organs; and in this case Hunter was enabled by his profound anatomical knowledge to rise far above Linnaeus. In the Systerna Naturae, the Mammalia and Aves, which correspond with Hunter’s first and second classes,'according to the organs of respiration, have both the same characters as- signed to them, “ pulmones respirantes reciproce,” while the Amphibia, to which Hunter’s third class corresponds, are said by Linnaeus to have “ pulmones spirantes arbitrarie.” Neither Hunter nor Linnaeus, however, arrived at the perception of that condition of the respiratory organs which characterizes their first four classes in common, viz. that the breathing organs com- municate with the mouth; nor am I aware that the Vertebrata have ever been distinguished in any system as oral breathers, in contradistinction to the Mollusca, which may be termed anal breathers, and to the Articulata, which respire by aper- Pbysiological Catalogue, Introduction to the Third Volume, p. v.