ON THE GLANDS CALLED VESICULiE SEMINALES. 23 right vesicula so full of blood. But upon opening the vesiculae, both appeared to be filled with the same kind of mucus, and similar to that which is found in other dead bodies; the vesicula of the right side being rather larger than that on the left. Whatever, therefore, may be the real use of these vesiculse, we have a proof from this dissection that in the human subject they do not contain the semen. In a man who died in St. George’s Hospital with a very large bubo- nocele, the testicle of the diseased side was discovered to have almost lost its natural texture, from the pressure of the hernial sac; and upon examining the testicle with attention there was no appearance of vas deferens till we came near the bladder, where it was almost as large as usual. The vesicula of that side was found to be as full as the other, and to contain the same kind of mucus. I extirpated the left testicle of a Frenchman, who was a married man, and died about a year afterwards, having been extremely ill for several months before his death. On examining the body, the vesiculgp were both found nearly full, more especially that on the left side, which miglit be accidental; but the vas deferens of the left side, where it lies along this bag, and where it has a similar structure with the vesiculee, was likewise filled with the same kind of mucus; which I believe is always the case, whether the testicle has been removed or not. A young man, a coachman, with his left testicle much diseased, had it removed, at St. George’s Hospital, by Mr. Walker, in August 1785; and in February 1786 he returned again to the hospital, on account of uncommon pains all over him. For these he requested to be put into the warm bath; but as he was going from the ward for that purpose, he dropped down and died almost immediately. The body was in- spected, with a view to discover the cause of his death; and, upon ex- amination of the vesiculse, the bag of the left side was as full as that on the right, and the contents in both were exactly similar. In the winter 1788 another case occurred nearly resembling the above. In dissecting a male subject, in the year 1755, for a side view of the contents of the pelvis, I found a bag on the left side, lying contiguous to the peritonaeum, just on the side of the pelvis where the internal iliac vessels divide above the angle of reflection of the peritonaeum at the union of the bladder and rectum. The left vas deferens was seen pass- ing on to this bag; and what is very singular, that of the right, or op- posite side, crossed the bladder, near its union with the rectum, to join it. I traced the left vas deferens down to the testicle ; but, on follow- ing the right through the ring of the external oblique muscle, I dis- covered that it terminated at once, about an inch from its passage out of the abdomen, in a blunt point, which was impervious. On examining