OF THE WOLF, JACKAL, AND DOG. 319 OBSERVATIONS TENDING TO SHOW THAT THE WOLF. JACKAL, AND DOG, ARE ALL OF THE SAME SPECIES. T. HE true distinction between different species of animals must ulti- mately, as appears to me, be gathered from their incapacity of propa- gating with each other an offspring capable again of continuing itself by subsequent propagations : thus the horse and ass beget a mule ca- pable of copulation, but incapable of begetting or producing offspring. If it be true that the mule has been known to breed, which must be al- lowed to be an extraordinary fact, it will by no means be sufficient to determine the horse and ass to be of the same species; indeed, from the copulation of mules being very frequent, and the circumstance of their breeding very rare, I should rather attribute it to a degree of monstro- sity in the organs of the mule which conceived, as not being a mixture of two different species, but merely those of either the mare or female ass. This is not so far-fetched an idea, when we consider that some true species produce monsters, which are a mixture of both sexes, and that many animals of distinct sex are incapable of breeding at all. If then we find Nature in its most perfect state deviating from general principles, why may it not happen likewise in the production of mules ; so that sometimes a mule shall breed from the circumstance of its being a monster respecting mules ? The time of uterine gestation being the same in all the varieties of every species of animals, it becomes a necessary circumstance towards determining a species. The affinity between the fox, wolf, jackal, and several varieties of the dog, in their external form and several of their properties, is so striking, that they appear to be only varieties of the same species. The fox would seem to be further removed from the dog than either the jackal or wolf, at least in disposition, being naturally a solitary animal, and neither so sociable respecting its own species or man; from which I should infer that it is only allied to the dog by being of the same genus. It is confidently asserted by many that the fox breeds with the dog; but this has not been accurately ascertained; if it had, the inquiry would probably have been carried further; and once breeding, according to what we have said, does not constitute a species; this, however, is a part I mean to investigate. I do not know if, in a wild state, there ever is in the same country a variety in any species of animal, but am