ON ANIMALS PRODUCING HEAT. 137 The stem was embraced by a small ivory scale, so as to slide upon it easily, and retain any position. Upon the hollow surface of this scale were marked the degrees, which were seen through the stem^. By these means the size of the thermometer was very much reduced, and it could be applied to soft bodies with much more ease and certainty, and in many cases in which the former ones could not be conveniently used; I therefore repeated with it such of my former experiments as had not at first proved satisfactory, and found the degrees of heat very different, not only from what I had expected, but also from what I had found by my former experiments with thermometers of the common construction. I have observed above, and find it supported by every experiment I have made on the heat and cold of animals, that the more perfect have the greater power of retaining a certain degree of heat, which may be called their standard heat, and allow of much less variation than the more imperfect animals : however, it will appear from the three expe- riments which I am now going to relate, that many, if not all of the more perfect, are still incapable of keeping constantly to one degree, but may be altered from their standard heat either by external appli- cations or disease. These variations are much greater below that standard than above it, the perfect animals having a greater power of resisting heat than cold, so that they are commonly near their ultimate heat. Indeed we do not want any other proof of a variation than our own feelings, being all sensible of heat and of cold, which sensations could not be produced without an alteration really taking place in the parts affected; and that alteration could not take place if they did not become actually warmer or colder. I have often cooled my hands to such a degree that I could warm them by immersing them in water just pumped; therefore my hands were really colder than the pump-water. An increase of absolute heat must alter the texture or position of the parts, so as to produce the sensation which we call heat; and as that heat is diminished, the texture or position of the parts is altered in a contrary way, and, when carried to a certain degree, becomes the cause of the sensation of cold. Now these effects could not take place in either case without an increase or decrease of absolute heat in the part; heat, therefore, in some one of its different degrees, must be present. I shall not in this place attempt to settle whether heat is a body or matter, or only a property of matter, which appears to me to be merely a difference in terms ; for a property must belong to something. When heat is applied to the surface of the body the skin becomes in some de- gree heated according to the application, which may be carried so far as actually to burn the living parts : on the contrary, in a cold atmosphere “ [Plate XL.]