OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. 116 gastric juice ; but though inclined to suppose that the living powers of the animal may guard it against such effects, yet he is still disposed to fear that in all cases they may not be sufficient. * The living power in the stomach must indeed be very w'eak to admit of its being digested ; where that was likely to happen, I imagine the secretion of the gastric juice would be too defective to allow of the stomach being acted upon. Dr. Stevens gives two cases, with the dissections, to prove that the living stomach has not always the power to resist the action of the gas- tric juice ; but he has not made it clear that those very stomachs might not have been digested after death. The appearance of the edges of the hole should have been more particularly described; for if it took place before death it is probable it was owing to ulceration, which I have sometimes seen. Men should be very accurate in ascertaining the truth of facts before they advance them, especially when they tend either to overturn a received opinion or to establish a new one. As to the j)ossibility of animals swallowed alive being digested, no fresh proofs are necessary, as we eat oysters every day ; but this does not j)rove that they are digested while alive. In his experiments made on ruminating animals and the dog, as the vegetables were not so readily digested as the meat, he concludes, “It is possible every species of animal has its peculiar gastric liquor, capable of dissolving certain substances only which is certainly not true. , Mr. Senebier relates some experiments made by Mr. Gosse upon himself, but which hardly contain anything except a curious conjecture of Mr. Senebier’s, “ That distention of the stomach is the cause of the secretion of the gastric liquor.” He mentions the substances, both animal and vegetable, which are not digestible; then those difficult of digestion; afterwards, those easily digested; also what substances fa- cilitate digestion, and what retard it. But if we are to judge of the truth of these facts from a detail of the experiments which he made to ascertain them, I am quite inclined to believe that the experiments have not been made with sufficient accuracy to be depended upon. ON THE DIGESTION OF THE STOMACH AFTER DEATH. The following account of the stomach being digested after death was drawn up at the desire of the late Sir John Pringle, when he was Pre- sident of the Royal Society; and the circumstance which led to it was ns follows. I had opened, in his presence, the body of a patient who iiad been under his care, in which the stomach was found to- be in part