OF THE OVAIUA. 50 AN EXPERIMENT TO DETERMINE THE EFFECT OF EXTIR- PATING ONE OVARIUM UPON THE NUMBER OF YOUNG PRODUCED^ In all animals of distinct sex, tlie females, those of the Bird-kind excepted, have, I believe, two ovaria, and of course the oviducts are in pairs. By distinct sex I mean when the parts destined to the purposes of generation are of two kinds, each kind appropriated to an individual of each species, distinguished by the appellation of male and female, and equally necessary to the propagation of the animal. The testicles, with their appendages, constitute the male; the ovaria, and their appendages, the female sex. As the ovaria are the organs which, on the part of the female, furnish what is necessary towards the production of the third, or young ani- mal, and as females appear to have a limited portion of the middle stage of life allotted for that purpose, it becomes a question, whether those organs are worn out by repeated acts of propagation; or whether there is not a natural and constitutional period to that power on their part, even if such power has never been exerted ? If we consider this sub- ject in every view, taking the human species as an example, we shall discover that circumstances, either local or constitutional, may be ca- pable of extinguishing in the female the faculty of propagation. Thus we may observe when a woman begins to breed at an early period, as at fifteen, and has her children fast, that she seldom breeds longer than the age of thirty or thirty-five; therefore we may suppose either that the parts are then worn out, or that the breeding constitution is over. If a woman begins later, as at twenty or twenty-five, she may continue to breed to the age of forty or more; and there are, now and then, in- stances of women who, not having conceived before, have had children as late in life as at fifty years or upwards. After that period few women breed, even though they should not have bred before; therefore there must be a natural period to the power of conception. A similar stop to propagation may likewise take place in other classes of animals, pro- bably in the female of every class, the period varying according to cir- ^ [Originally published in the Philosophical Transactions, vol. Ixxvii. p. 233; read, March 22, 1787.]