OBSERVATIONS ON SOME FOSSIL BONES. 477 there is reason to believe, then those mixed extraneous fossils will be covered with those of sea animals. Now if the sea should again move, and abandon this situation, then we should find the land and sea fossils above mentioned disposed in this order; and as we begin to discover extraneous fossils in a contrary direction to their formation, we shall first find a stratum of those of animals peculiar to the sea, which were the last formed, and under it one of vegetables and land animals, which were there before they were covered by the sea, and among them those of the sea, and under this the common earth. Those peculiar to the sea will be in depth in proportion to the time of the sea’s residence and other circumstances, as currents, tides, &c. From a succession of such shiftings of the situation of the sea we may have a stratum of marine extraneous fossils, one of earth, mixed pro- bably with vegetables and bones of land animals, a stratum of terres- trial extraneous fossils, then one of marine productions; but from the sea carrying its inhabitants along with it, wherever there are those of land animals there will also be a mixture of marine ones ; and from the sea commonly remaining thousands of years in nearly the same situ- ation, we have marine fossils unmixed with any others^. All operations respecting the growth or decomposition of animal and vegetable substances go on more readily on the surface of the earth than in it; the air is most probably the great agent in decomposition and combination, and also a certain degree of heat. Thus the deeper we go into the earth we find the fewer changes going on; and there is probably a certain depth where no change of any kind can possibly take place. The operation of vegetation will not go on at a certain depth, but at this very depth a decomposition can take place, for the seed dies, and in time decays; but at a still greater depth the seed retains its life for ages, and when brought near enough to the surface for vegetation it grows. Something similar to this takes place with respect to extra- neous fossils; for although a piece of wood or bone is dead when so situated as to be fossilized, yet they are sound' and free from decompo- sition, and the depth, joined with the matter in which they are often found, as stone, clay, &c. preserves them from putrefaction, and their dissolution requires thousands of years to complete it; probably they may be under the same circumstances as in a vacuum ; the heat in such ^ [The importance of the study of fossil remains in the elucidation of the nature of the changes to which the earth's surface has been subject, here dwelt upon by Hunter, was placed in a strong light by the subsequent researches of Cuvier and Brogniart on the structure of the Paris Basin, and the fossils which have rendered it so famous. By the aid of these fossils Cuvier was enabled to refer the succession of strata to several distinct alternations of marine and freshwater formations.]