45 OF AN EXTRAORDINARY PHEASANT. be observed that every species has a disposition to deviate from Nature in a manner peculiar to itself®. It is likewise worthy of remark, that each species of animals is disposed to have nearly the same sort of defects, and to have certain supernumerary parts of the same kind : yet every part is not alike disposed to take on a great variety of forms; but each part of each species seems to have its monstrous form originally impressed upon it* **. It is well known that many orders of animals have the two parts de- signed for the purpose of generation different in individuals of the same species, by which they are distinguished into male and female ; but this is not the only mark of distinction, in the greatest part the male being distinguished from the female by various other marks. The varieties which are found in the parts of generation themselves I shall call the first or principal marks, being originally formed in them, and belonging equally to both sexes; all others depending upon these I shall call se- condary, as not taking place till the first are becoming of use, and being principally, although not entirely, in the male. One of the most general marks is, the superior strength of make in the male ; and another circumstance, perhaps equally so, is this strength being directed to one part more than another, which part is that most immediately employed in fighting. This difference in external form is more particularly remarkable in the animals whose females are of a peaceable nature, as are the greatest number of those which feed on ve- getables, and the marks to discriminate the sexes are in them very nu- * [The value of the principle here enunciated will be appreciated, when it is stated that it is the basis of the latest and most elaborate work on the subject of mon- sters. It is claimed for GeofFroy St. Hilaire as the most important of his deductions in Teratology, and the chief point in which his system differs from, and is superior to, those of his predecessors. “ C’est de principes precisement inverses que mon pere a pris sur point de depart; et c’est aussi, comme cela devait etre d des resultats inverses qu’il est parvenu. Etablissant, par un grand nombre de recherches, que les monstres sont, comme les etres dits normaux, soumis a des regies constantes, il est conduit a ad- mettre que la m^thode de classification que les naturalistes emploient pour les seconds, pent etre appliquee avec succes aux premiers.” Isid. Geoffroy St.-Hilaire, loc. cit., p. 99.] ^ [In this principle Mr. Hunter is opposed to Geoffroy St.-Hilaire, who attributed the production {Vordonnee) of monstrosities to the operation of exterior or mechanical causes at some period of foetal development. Defective formation in parts of a foetus has indeed been produced by destroying a portion of the respiratory surface of an egg du- ring incubation; but this result by no means affords adequate grounds for assigning as the sole cause of every malformation accidental adhesions between the foetus and its coverings. Mr. Hunter also made experiments with reference to monstrosities, and succeeded in effecting what, at first sight, seems the most difficult to produce, viz. the monsters by excess, of which several specimens of Lacerta,w\i\i a double tail (No. 2219— 2223), afford examples. It is evident, however, from the expression in the concluding paragraph of the text, that he regarded the cause of congenital malformation as existing in the primordial germ.]