258 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. Swammerdam himself doubted its being conclusive, believing the air might be compressed during the heart’s action ; but we have no proof of the presence of air in a muscle in the simple state of air. Boerhaave and Sauvages accounted for the water descending by the blood being pressed out by the contraction of the muscle, which blood was returned into it by the relaxation, and raised the water. This cer- tainly w'ould be the case in the experiment made upon a W’hole limb; for we know, from every day’s experience, that in bleedings from the arm the blood is throwm out more forcibly while the muscles are in ac- tion ; therefore there is less blood in the vessels of the limb when the muscles are contracted than in a state of relaxation, and of course the limb is less in bulk at that time than in the other; but when a single muscle or a whole animal is immersed in water, whatever loss the muscle has in its substance must be gained by the w^ater, so that the w^hole can neither be diminished nor increased. Hambergerus tied a string round a man’s arm, and found that during the action of the muscles it cut him; he therefore thought that muscles in action were increased ; but the experiment only proved that it became thicker, w'hich is generally allow''ed. It has been objected to such experiments, that if a person acts only with one set of muscles, their opponents become stretched or relaxed in proportion, keeping up an equilibrium in the part: as antagonizing muscles, however, never bear a just proportion to one another in strength, it follows, that if we act with the strongest set of mucles the limb will of course become thicker in the proportion that the strength of the act- ing muscles bears to the strength of the relaxing ones, and vice versd. To ascertain with as much precision as possible whether a muscle really alters in size or not when contracted, I repeated the experiments of Goddard, Glisson, and Swammerdam, but in such a way as to have little or no doubt what was the effect. I got a glass blown which con- tained almost a gallon ; its mouth was about three inches over, to admit its receiving a pretty large muscle, and was fitted with a ground-glass stopper, which was water-tight, and a glass tube was fitted into this s topper, so as to communicate with the cavity of the glass, being at the same time water-tight. This apparatus could be filled with water, and have the water stand at any height in the tube which might be required, so as to give with great nicety the comparative size (should there be any difference,) of a muscle when contracted and when relaxed, while immersed in it. The muscles best adapted for experiments of this kind are those which have no antagonists, for in that case the contraction of one muscle pro- duces the elongation of the other. The muscle should be wholly de-