90 OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. dicularly to the axis, one surface sliding in a contrary direction to the other, and that not in a straight, but in a circular direction, as will be explained hereafter. In considering the strength of the gizzard, and its probable effects when compared with the human stomach, it must appear that the giz- zard is in itself very fit for trituration; we are not, however, to conclude that stones are entirely useless; for if we compare the strength of the muscles of the jaws of animals which masticate their food with those of birds which do not, we shall say that the parts are well calculated for the purpose of mastication; yet we are not from thence to infer that the teeth in such jaws are useless, even although we have proof that the gums do the business when the teeth are gone. If stones are of use, which we may reasonably conclude they are, birds have an advantage over animals having teeth, so far as stones are always to be found, while the teeth are not renewed. Spallanzani concludes, “ That we have at length a decision of the famous question concerning the use of these pebbles, so long agitated by authors; it appearing that they are not at all necessary for the trituration of the firmest food, &c.”; but says, “He will, however, not deny that when put in motion by the gastric muscles, they are capable of producing some effects on the contents of the stomach.” Now if we constantly find in an organ substances which can only be subservient to the functions of that organ, should we deny them to be of any use because the part can to a certain degree do its office without them ? To account for pebbles being found in the gizzard, Spallanzani sup- poses the birds to have picked them up by chance, or not to have di- stinguished between their food and these stones. But it appears sin- gular that only those which have gizzards should be so stupid; and he owns that Redi and himself found that birds died of hunger, yet without having picked 'up more stones than usual, which we might suppose they would have done if they had not had a choice, or could not have distin- guished stones from the grain on which they feed. The stones assist in breaking the grain, and by separating its parts in the beginning of the process, and afterwards by rubbing off the surface already digested, allow the gastric juice to come more completely in contact with the whole. It has been said, that the motion of the gizzard is so small as hardly to be observable, and that it cannot be felt by the hand. But as its cavity is very small, and must be capable of adapting itself to the quan- tity it contains (or it could not possibly grind), much motion is not ne- cessary for the purposes of trituration : a swelling and collapsing, like the motion of the heart, would have no effect. The extent of motion