CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 209 I am afraid we can go no further in the investigation of the cause of the action of muscles than by observing the phenomena which happen, and these all lead us to one cause of action. The visible external cause of the action of a muscle is called ‘ stimu- lus,’ and it is reasonable to suppose that all causes of such action are si- milar. This, however, may admit of dispute, the heart certainly having no visible stimulus for its motion, except the being called upon, by the sympathy which subsists between the combined powers of the animal ceconomy, to exert itself in their favour, which will not account for the heart’s motion when removed from that connexion. The great question has hitherto been, whether a muscle is susceptible of impression without the medium of a nerve, or whether a nerve is in all cases necessary to its being called into action ; for a stimulus must either affect the nerve which affects the muscle, or the muscular fibre itself must be susceptible of immediate impression from the stimulus. A muscle would appear to be capable of being affected in both ways, for many animals certainly exist without nerves, and plants are sus - ceptible of stimulus where it must be immediate, they never having been supposed to have nerves^. It is also evident in animals with nerves that by stimulating a nerve the muscle to which it goes will be imme- diately thrown into action, the nerve becoming the immediate stimu- lant, so that a muscular fibre may be stimulated by a nerve as well as by any other impression. ® [Those who admit that a muscle is susceptible of stimulus only through the medium of the nervous matter blended with its substance, do not scruple to ascribe nervous or sensitive globules to vegetables. But they here create the necessity which an unde- monstrable organ is called in to supply. Now the more simple and philosophical mode of considering this question seems to be to examine whether the moving organs are stimulated in any new, distinct, and additional manner in thos.e organized beings in which nerves have been detected; and if it be found that they all manifest spontaneous actions,—motions of parts independent of any external stimulus,—a phenomenon which has never been witnessed in any plant, then the next step would be to determine by experiment the relations subsisting between the new function and the superadded or- gan. The irritable fibre does not contract in a different manner when stimulated by the will than when stimulated mechanically out of the body; nerves, it is true, convey impressions which excite action, and are essential to the application of the voluntary stimulus, but not, therefore, to the muscular contraction. Hence, when we come to account for the cause of the spontaneous actions in animals in which no nerves have been detected, w^e are justified, by analogy, in attidbuting the spontaneous stimulus to the presence of undemonstrable nervous matter. But in the case of plants, if we at- tribute the contractions to anything but the irritability of the moving parts them- selves, w'e must first hypothetically assume that nerves are necessary for the action, and then gratuitously infer their existence. This, however, only leads to a greater difficulty, to account, viz. for the non-existence of spontaneous motions in those organized beings to which nerves are, in the above theory, attributed.] VOL. IV. r