CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 197 The second may be divided into two kinds,—first, where this action has an effect upon some other part, or moves it, which is the ultimate effect, as the heart moving the blood by contracting,—secondly, where the action is applied to some other body adapted for a particular motion, which is to produce the ultimate effect, such as the muscles of a joint. We may in general observe, from what we know of motion or action in matter, that it is always preceded by something which we call the cause; and that the immediate cause is an irresistible impulse to action, which action becomes the effect. A body endowed with the power of self-motion is under the same influence of im^julse as matter in general: it cannot move without an immediate cause for its motion. Self-motion may be of three kinds in the more perfect animals. The first is where the motion is excited by a cause from within the animal itself, and is em23loyed in the oeconomical operations and functions of the machine, and with the materials the machine is already in posses- sion of, which are only made use of in the growth of parts, secretion of fluids, &c. The second is where motion is excited from an internal cause, and is employed in particular functions and operations, but where such materials used are out of the body; as in those excited in conse- quence of hunger ancTthirst, the passion between the sexes, &c. The third is where motion is excited by external stimuli, and where whole parts are put in motion ; as where the sight or voice of a person excites one to approach him ; the application of a medicine which excites vomit- ing, &c. We can have no other idea of these motions in animals but that they are muscular: and as the two first of these actions exist in vegetables, it is natural to suppose that there is a similarity in the cause which produces the same final intention, although the same mode of ac- tion or a similar power is not made use of to produce it. These immediate causes of action in an animal are called stimuli, and the capability in parts for action is termed irritability; but such a de- finition is too confined for the numerous actions excited in an animal bod)^ The word stimulus is pretty well determined in its signification ; it is an incitement to an action of a proper or salutary nature ; but the call- ing a part capable of being stimulated an irritable part, weakens the idea of the stimulus being the cause of the action; and indeed the ex- pression of a part being irritated conveys a different meaning from what would be annexed to the effect produced by a stimulus. I would there- fore define a ‘ stimulus ’ to be the cause of an increased natural action; and an ‘ irritation’ to be the cause of an unnatural, disagreeable, or dis- eased action. Vegetables as well as animals have their motions produced by these causes, and are subject to the very same laws. A stimulus or excite-