106 OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION in others the disposition to form it may be destroyed, which may be the reason why, by a kind of instinctive principle, many girls are fond of eating sour fruit and of drinking vinegar; while others, on the contrary, from a different cause, often eat chalk, lime, and other substances of that sort. But the acid not being always found, it is not yet determined on what occasions it is formed, or in w^hat manner it is destroyed. The process of digestion differs from every other natural operation in the change it produces on different bodies; yet it is by no means fer- mentation, though it may somewhat resemble it. For fermentation, a spontaneous process, is that natural succession of changes by which ve- getable and animal matter is reduced to earth; therefore must be widely to red. But it is necessary, for the accuracy of the experiment which is to determine this fact, that the animal should not be fed upon vegetables for some time before the trial is made, these being liable in some degree to become sour; therefore it is hardly fair to make the experiment on the contents of the stomach of animals who live upon vegetables. In many trials of this kind we may be deceived, and led to suppose an alkali; for certain animal secretions being of a yellow cast, when such are mixed with the syrup of violets the mixture is changed to a green. The truth of the experiment may, however, be known by adding a little acid; for if the green has been produced merely by a mechanical mixture, it wilt become immediately a scarlet, by being then a mixture of red and yellow ; but if the secretion is not only of a yellow colour, but of an alkaline nature, it will also continue green ; and by adding a little more acid than what saturates the alkali the colour will then become orange®. ® [Various opinions have been entertained as to the acidity of the gastric juice. Spal- lanzani believed it to be a neutral fluid. Carminati could detect no acid in the gastric juice of carnivorous animals and mixed feeders, but found it to exist in that of vegetable feeders. {Ueher die Natur des Magensaftes, Wien, 1785.) ' Helm, who examined the gastric juice in a patient with a fistulous opening in the stomach, also states that it con- tains no sensible acid. {Zwei KrankengescMcten, Wien, 1803.) The same cause of orror has probably operated in each of the preceding cases, viz. not making a suflScient distinction between the ordinary mucous secretion of the stomach and the peculiar fluid which is poured out from the stimulus of the contact of food, or any innutritions sub- stances. In the experiments of Tiedemann and Gmelin the ordinary secretion of the stomach in fasting horses and dogs was found to be almost neutral, or very slightly acid; but on stimulating the surface by means of stones, (by which any cause of error from a change of fermentable substances, as alluded to by Hunter, was avoided,) then the secretion manifested unequivocally the presence of acidity. Beaumont has more fully established the acidity of the gastric juice in the work before quoted. He observed in the man with gastric fistula that the gastric juice was poured out from numerous minute clear points or papillae. It is a clear inodorous fluid, with a somewhat salt and very marked acid taste, like that of thin mucilage which has been soured with muriatic acid. It dissolves in water, wine, and alcohol; slightly effervesces with alkali; decomposes slowly, and retards the decomposition of animal matter. Saliva imparts to the gastric juice a blue colour and a frothy appearance. Chemical analysis shows the gastric juice to contain both the muriatic and acetic acids, alkaline phosphates, muriate of soda, magnesia, and limcj and an animal matter which is soluble in cold but not in hot water.]