234 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION; produce the various motions of the parts, and, as the construction for motion is hardly the same in any two joints, more nicety and art is re- quired ; the insertions of muscles are commonly more determined than the origins. Few muscles are so situated as to arise from surfaces at right angles to the direction of their fibres, as they generally pass nearly in the same direction with the surface from which they arise, whether bone, tendon, or fascia. They therefore take their origin from a part as they pass along it, which renders it very oblique, and produces the form of muscle called half-penniform. Some muscles, however, both arise from, and are inserted into, surfaces at right angles to the direction of their fibres, as many of the spine, &c. The insertions of muscles are more general than their origins, for they must be inserted into every part of the body to be moved, and therefore we find them inserted into bones, cartilages, periosteum, tendons, fascia, and many of them into soft parts, as the skin, cellular membrane, the tongue, &c. In describing muscles, they are never said to be inserted into, or to arise from, periosteum, but from the bone the periosteum covers, as it is upon the bone the effect is produced. Muscles never arise from, or are inserted into, capsular ligaments, for although in some few cases they seem to run into, or are attached to them, the effect is not immediately on the capsular ligament, but on the bone beyond it, and the ligament is strengthened at this part in proportion to the power of the muscle; so that in this case, as far as regards the mechanical effect, the ligament and tendon may be consi- dered as one. Many tendons, in their course over joints, adhere to the ligaments, and bring them along with them in the action of their muscles. 'Fins adhesion, however, is only to bring out a secondary use, to save the li- gament from being bruised between the bones, which otherwise might have been the case. Many muscles besides these insertions give off fibres to the fasciae, which cover other muscles, as is evident from the lower edge of the pectoralis major, biceps flexor cubiti, semitendinosus, &c., but what is intended by it is difficult to determine. T'he origins of muscles are generally further from the centre of mo- tion of the part to be moved than the insertion; remarkable instances of this are seen in the biceps flexor and triceps extensor of the forearm, and all the movers of the hand and fingers. This gives neatness to the parts to be moved; but its principal use is to give velocity to the motion, with a small quantity of contraction ; what it gains, how'ever, in velocity, it loses in strength. That velocity is the intention is evident, for if the