THE FIRST MONTH OF PREGNANCY. 57 est, was nearly half an inch; where it terminated towards the cervix it was pendulous and unattached. There were also several loose pro- cesses, all turned towards the cervix, one of them very thin, as broad as a silver penny, and only attached by one edge to the fundus near the opening of the right Fallopian tube. On slitting open the Fallopian tubes, the coagulum was found to pass some way into them, and to extend more than half an inch on the left side, which had the corpus luteum. The coagulum was thickest at the orifice of the tube, and there adhered to the inner surface for the eighth part of an inch; beyond which it became smaller and terminated in a point. In the left tube the coagulum was in two places coiled or folded upon itself, as if thrown back by the action of the tube. The portions of the coagulum at the orifices of the tubes were hollow. When the inner surface of the cavity of the uterus was examined with a magnifying glass it was found extremely vascular, and dotted with innumerable whitish spots too small to be seen by the naked eye. In the examination of this uterus and Fallopian tubes, as Mr. Hunter’s chief object was the detection of the embryo, no precaution Avas omitted Avhich could be dcAused to prevent it being overlooked or destroyed. Tlie uterus was opened in a bason of clear water, the incision was conducted with great circumspection, and very slowly continued, till the whole of the caAuty was exposed. Every part of the internal sur- face was minutely examined with magnifying glasses; but in no situ- ation w'as there anything resembling an embryo to be found. The presence of a corpus luteum, the enlargement of the uterus, the newly-formed vascular membrane, or decidua, lining the cavity, and the histor}^ of the case, sufiiciently prove conception to have taken place; and the embryo being nowhere detected by an examination so accurate, and conducted by an anatomist so skilful in minute investigation, would induce a belief that the foetus had not been sufficiently advanced to take on a regular form. The appearances in the uterus, here described, the late Dr. Hunter, in his lectures, mentioned to have seen at a very early period after im- pregnation : so far they are not entirely new. The accuracy of the examination renders this case valuable, as it seems to enable us to de- cide a point hitherto not at all understood—that certain changes in the uterus not only take place previous to the reception of the foetus, but that the foetus does not acquire a visible form for some time after these changes have been made^. * [The positive conclusions deduced from this case, viz. that certain changes take place in the uterus within one month after conception, have been confirmed by all those