275 THE USE OF THE OBLIQUE MUSCLES. capable of moving from object to object, or of following any object in motion, but also necessary that there should be a power to keep it fixed on any one object to which the mind might be attentive ; therefore the muscles are formed so as not only to be able to move the eye from object to object, but likewise to keep its point of vision fixed upon any parti- cular one, while the eye is moving progressively with the head or body. This is the use of these muscles, when the parts from whence they arise are kept fixed respecting the objects the eye is pointed to ; but it is often necessary, while the eye is fixed upon a particular object, that the eye- ball and the head in which it is fixed should shift their situation respect- ing that object; and this would alter the direction of the eye, if the muscles had not the power of taking up an action that produces a con- trary effect, that is, keeping the point of insertion of the muscles as the fixed point, by causing their fibres to contract according as the origins of the muscles vary their position respecting the object. From this me- chanism we find these three modes of action produced: first, the eye moving from one fixed object to another; then the eye moving along with an object in motion ; and, last, the eye keeping its axis to an object, although the whole eye, and the head, of which it makes a part, are in motion. From either of these motions taking place singly, or being combined, the eye is always kept towards its object. In the two first modes of action the origins of the muscles are fixed points respecting the object; and, in the last, the object becomes as it were the centre of motion, or fixed point, commanding the direction of the actions of the eye, as the north commands the direction of the needle, let the box in which it is placed be moved in what direction it may. These two first modes of action are performed by the straight muscles; for the head being a fixed point, they are capable of moving the eye up and down, from right to left, with all the intermediate motions, which, taken to- gether, constitute a circular movement; or, when the eye is to become the fixed point, then the head itself performs the circular movement. Thence appears the necessity why the object, the axis of the eye, and the point of sensation, should all three be in the same straight line. But this does not take place in all movements of that whole of which the eye makes a part; for besides those which we have already taken notice of, the head is capable of a motion from shoulder to shoulder, the axis of which is through the axis of the two eyes, from the fore to the back part. It should be here observed, that for distinct vision the ob- ject must be fixed as respecting the pupil of the eye, and not in the least allowed to move over its surface^. To prevent any progressive motion * Optical writers seem to have been entirely ignorant of this ; for they not only sup- pose distinct vision compatible with the object having a motion over the different parts T 2