6 OF THE SITUATION OF THE TESTIS IN THE FCETUS. proportion to the size of the testicle and pendulous situation in other animals. But what purpose it answers in the foetus, or in animals whose testicles remain in the abdomen, is not easily imagined, there being no apparent reason why such a muscle should exist^. The cremaster, or musculus testis, appears to be composed of the lower fibres of the obliquus internus and transversalis muscles in the foetus, turning upwards, and spreading upon the anterior surface of the gubernaculum, immediately under the peritoneum ; it appears to be lost on the peritoneum, a little way from the testicle. This, although now inverted, is more evidently seen in adult subjects who have had a hydro- cele or rupture ; in such cases the muscle becomes stronger than usual, and its fibres can be traced spreading on the tunica vaginalis, and seem at last to be lost upon it, near to the lower end of the body of the tes- ticle. The nerves which supply this muscle are probably branches from the nerves of the obliquus internus and transversalis muscles ; for the same cause which throws the abdominal muscles into action produces a simi- lar effect on the musculus testis; which circumstance appears to be most remarkable in the young subject. When we cough or act with the ab- dominal muscles, we find the testicles to be drawn up; the musculus testis and abdominal muscles taking on the same action from the same cause At this time of life the testis is connected in a very particular man- ner with the parietes of the abdomen, at that place where in adult bodies the spermatic vessels pass out, and likewise with the scrotum. This connexion is by means of a substance which runs down from the lower “ [The cremaster does not in fact exist in the true testiconda^ as the elephant, hyrax, seal, walrus, the Cetaceous and Monotrematous Mammalia; in these the testes are merely supported by their vessels and a fold of peritoneum analogous to the broad ligaments of the uterus and ovaries; but when the cremaster is met with in apparent testiconda it is always in relation to a partial or temporary escape of the testis from the abdomen, as in bats and most insectivorous Ferae, and in many of the Glires, as the rats, squirrels, bea- ver, porcupine, &c.] [The first lumbar nerve, which gives many small branches to the transversalis abdo- minis, sends off a branch which, in conjunction with smaller branches from the second lumbar nerve, forms the ‘external spermatic nerve’ from which the cremaster is sup- plied.] ^ [As the cremaster is supplied from common or spinal nerves, it is not surprising that it should in same cases, like the occipito-frontalis muscle, be under the control of the will. Mr. Marshall observes, in his work On Recruits, “ Some individuals have the voluntary power of contracting and relaxing the cremaster muscle; others can ele- vate the testicle on one side but not on the other; and I have seen a few persons who could voluntarily raise a testicle, but had not the power of letting it return into the scrotum.”]