305 OF ABSORPTION BY VEINS. Experiment VII. I fixed a pipe into an artery, and tied up the vein and all the communications; then injected milk for some time into the artery till the vein became quite turgid and tight; this was continued for some little time, and with as much force as we~ thought the vessels would bear without bursting; then we opened the intestine at that part, and there was no appearance of milk in its cavity. “ Experiment VIII. I took a piece of the intestine that was quite empty and clean, and filled it with warm water. The returning blood in the vein of this part appeared not at all diluted or thinner than in the other veins. Then I tied up the artery and all the communications, and attended to the state of the vein for some time; it did not grow more turgid, nor did its blood become more watery, nor was there any appearance whatever of the water’s having got into the veins. “ The animal was quite alive all the time of our making these expe- riments and observations, which lasted from one o’clock till half an hour after three. I chose a sheep rather than a dog, both because the animal was much larger, and therefore its mesenteric vessels were fitter for being easily injected, and besides, because it is much more patient and quiet. These advantages we were all sensible of when we made the experiments. ‘‘Animal Third.—June 22nd, 1759. We repeated most of these experiments on another sheep, to see if the effect would be the same, but in this animal the viscera were diseased, inflamed, and thickened in most parts, so that the experiments were much less successful, less sa- tisfactory, and conclusive. After injecting milk into the mesenteric ar- tery for some time, and allowing it to return by the vein, we opened that part of the intestine which had been previously emptied, and found in it a watery fluid of a whitish cast, as if a few drops of milk had been mixed wdth it. “ Animal Fourth.—In July, 1759*, I repeated most of the experi- ments related in articleSecond, upon another sheep. The ef- fect of all of them was so nearly the same that I need not be particular. “ I shall only observe, that when the intestine was filled with starch- water and indigo, and milk injected by the artery till the vein was washed clean of blood, and a ligature put upon the artery and vein, so as to leave them about half full of pure white milk, after waiting more than half an hour we could not observe that the vein was in the least more filled or turgid, nor had the milk in the veins acquired the least of a bluish cast, not even in the small veins upon the gut itself, where * In presence of Doctors Macaulay, Ramsey, and Michaelson, and Messrs. Edwards and Tomlinson, VOL. IV. X