246 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION, be looked upon as a chain of joints whose general centre of motion is iri the joints of the thighs; but each has its fulcrum, or centre of motion, which is always on that side next to the first, or the general centre of motion of the whole, by which means the smaller moves upon the greater, the toe upon the foot, the foot upon the leg, the leg upon the thigh, and the thigh upon the body. The same in the arms, the wings of birds, the tails of fishes, the oars of a boat, &c. But those motions can be, and often are, inverted, so that the greater can be made to move upon the smaller; as, for instance, the body upon the thigh, the thigh upon the leg; or, in birds, the body upon the wing, &c.; but then the smaller must be so circumstanced as to be the fixed point, which cannot be without external resistance. It is the inverted motions, then, which produce the progressive ; but it is necessary, for the production of a succession of them, to bring in also the motion of smaller parts upon greater; the two kinds of motion are, therefore, acting alternately when- ever the progressive motion is continued beyond the first action. The animals which move upon the earth have it for their point of re- sistance. Birds are supported and propelled in their flight by the resist- ance of the air ; and fishes, like boats, by the resistance of the water. The effects of muscular contraction may be divided into three lands. The first is, where the effects are in those parts of the body which are principally composed of muscle: these simply vary their configuration without extending their power beyond themselves, as in the actions of many of the more imperfect tribes of animals, as the leech, polypus, &c., and in many parts of the more perfect animals, as the heart, stomach, intestines, bladder, and all the vascular system^. The second is where the effect is more extended and reaches beyond the muscles themselves to such adjoining parts as are either formed simply for motion, as bones, cartilages, &c., or whole parts of the body, such as an eye, a lip, the skin, &c. The third is where the effects are mixed, viz. partake of both the preceding, as in those produced by the muscles of the tongue, of respi- ration, of the abdomen, &.C., where they both move parts and alter their configuration. The first and third kind of effects of muscles, when considered in the more perfect animals, are more connected with the internal (economy of the animal than with the mechanical application of the power of mus- * [This is not exactly true of these viscera, for their contents ejected by the contrac- tion of the surrounding fibres act upon the parts into which they are propelled, as the bone moved by the muscle inserted into it also carries the parts connected with it along with it in its motions.]