<?ROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 259 tached, having neither origin nor insertion, as a muscle cut out of the body, or cut from its attachment, as in crimped fish; those muscles however are best which have no natural attachment, as the heart. In repeating such experiments it will be hardly possible to have the result of two exactly the same, for no two muscles will be equally re- laxed at the beginning of the experiment, nor will any two muscles contract equally ; but if there is one universal general effect taking place in all of them, that general effect becomes the result of the experiment intended, and is what is to be attended to. Experiment 1. I killed a dog instantaneously, and took out the heart as expeditiously as possible, and put it into the glass filled with water, and immediately after putting in the stopper with the glass tube fixed in it. I now observed the height at which the water stood in the tube. The heart had so far lost its action as not to contract and relax al- ternately, having only the power of contraction from the stimulus of death, and when put into the water was perfectly relaxed. It was al- lowed to remain in the water some hours; and it was observed, that by its apparent loss of bulk it had contracted considerably; and we also found that the water in the tube had fallen*. The next thing to be done was to ascertain how much the heart had lost in size, which was known by the quantity necessary to fill up the glass to the first height, which was sixteen grains. The size of the heart was equal to two ounces six drachms, and thirty- eight grains of water, that is, 1328 grains, so that the contracted state was to the relaxed as 82 to 83, or -gVi’d part of the whole. Experiment 2. I took the heart of a sheep, whose size was equal to 13 ounces or 104 drachms of water; it lost in contraction 1 drachm ; so that the contracted state was to the relaxed as T-o-^th part of the whole. Experiment 3. I took a live eel, which was gutted, to remove as much as possible everything not muscular, and then crimped, to destroy the attachment of most of the muscles. The eel was equal to 14 ounces and 133 grains, or 6853 grains of water, and it lost in contraction 39 grains, or of whole^. * * It is to be observed that the water was kept in the same degree of heat through I the whole of the experiment. * [In the experiments above detailed Hunter drew his conclusions, as to the change of bulk in a muscle during contraction, from the effects observed in the level of the sur- rounding fluid, after the last contraction of the part or ‘ rigor mortis.’ In Mr. Mayo’s well- known experiment, which is similar to the first of Hunter’s, the ordinary contractions of the ventricles of a dog’s heart, alternating with relaxations of the same parts, produced i no perceptible change in the level of the water in the tubek In comparing the above ^ [Anatomical and Physiological Commentaries, vol. i. p. 12.] s 2