AND (ECONOMY OF WHALES. 349 the pure oil, separating in the same manner from this, swims above all. What remains after all the oil is extracted retains a good deal of its form, is almost wholly convertible into glue, and is sold for that purpose. llie cellular, or rather what should be called the uniting membrane, in this order of animals is similar to that in the quadruped; we find it uniting muscle to muscle, and muscle to bone, for their easy motion on one another. The cellular membrane, which is the receptacle for the oil near the surface of the body, is in general very dilferent from that in the qua- druped, as has been already observed. Of the Skin. The covering of this order of animals consists of a cuticle and cutis. The cuticle is somewhat similar to that on the sole of the foot in the human species, and appears to be made up of a number of layers, which separate by slight putrefaction ; but this I suspect arises in some degree from there being a succession of cuticles formed. It has no degree of elasticity or toughness, but tears easily ; nor do its fibres appear to have any particular direction. The internal stratum is tough and thick, and in the spermaceti whale its internal surface, when separated from the cutis, is just like coarse velvet, each pile standing firm in its place ; but this is not so distinguishable in some of the others, although it appears rough from the innumerable perforations. It is the cuticle that gives the colour to the animal; and in parts that are dark I think I have seen a dirty-coloured substance washed away in the separation of the cuticle from the cutis, which must be a kind of rete mucosum. The cutis in this tribe is extremely villous on its external surface, answering to the rough surface of the cuticle, and forming in some parts small ridges, similar to those on the human fingers and toes. These villi are soft and pliable; they float in water, and each is longer or shorter, according to the size of the animal. In the spermaceti whale they were about a quarter of an inch long ; in the grampus, bottle-nose, and piked whales, much shorter; in all, they are extremely vascular. The cutis seems to be the termination of the cellular membrane of the body more closely united, having smaller interstices and becoming more compact^. This alteration in the texture is so sudden as to make ^ [That is to say, the denser external layer or dermis, and the more open cellular and fibrous structure below, which in the Cetacea is loaded with oil, are essentially modifications of pne and the same structure. It is this combination of the dermal with the adipose tissues in the blubber of the whale which serves to retain the inter- nal heat, and at the same time resist the external pressure, which must be occasionally enormous.]