373 AND (ECONOMY OF WHALES. iami nervorum opticorum^. The thalami themselves are large, the cor- pora striata small the crura of the fornix are continued along the windings of the ventricles, much as in the human subject‘d. The plexus choroides is attached to a strong membrane which covers the thalami nervorum opticorum, and passes through the whole course of the ven- tricle, much as in the human subject^. The substance of the brain is more visibly fibrous than I ever saw it in any other animal, the fibres passing from the ventricles as from a centre to the circumference, which fibrous texture is also continued through the cortical substance. The whole brain in the piked whale weighed four pounds ten ounces®. The nerves going out from the brain, I believe, are similar to those of the quadruped, except in the want of the olfactory nerves in the genus of the porpoise. The medulla spinalis is much smaller in proportion to the size of the body than in the human species, but still bears some proportion to the quantity of brain; for in the porpoise, where the brain is largest, the medulla spinalis is largest; yet this did not hold good in the spermaceti whale, the size of the medulla spinalis appearing to be proportionally larger than the brain, which was small when compared to the size of the animal. It has a cortical part in the centre, and terminates about the twenty-fifth vertebra, beyond which is the cauda equina, the dura mater going no lower. The nerves which go off from the medulla spi- ^ [They extend, as in the Imman subject, into an anterior, descending, and posteriox horn; but the latter is very small.] - ** [The smallness of size of these parts, and the shortness of the anterior lobes of the brain are in relation with the absence of olfactory nerves. The corpora striata are brought into communication wth each other by an anterior commissure.] ® [The fornix sends down two slender anterior pillars to the corpora albicantia, and is continued into the anterior part of the corpus callosum; it then bends backwards along the under surface of the corpus callosum and above the thalami, and its poste- rior crura sink down, and diverge from each other to form the hippocampi.] ^ [The hemispheres of the brain are united by a corpus callosum, chiefly remarkable for its position, being much inclined downwards and forwards; its size is large, bearing the usual proportion to that of the hemispheres. The bigeminal bodies are large; the anterior pair are rounded and lie close together; the posterior are oval, and are sepa- rated by a depression which receives the anterior part of the vermiform process of the cerebellum. The medulla oblongata is characterized by the absence of the trapezoid bodies, in which respect it resembles that in the human subject and orang. The re- markable number and depth of the cerebral convolutions have been noticed by Tyson in the porpoise, by Scoresby in the whale, and by Tiedemann in the dolphin.] ■ ® [Scoresby found the brain of the mysticete whale (Balcena Mystieetus) to weigh 1 three pounds twelve ounces. Tyson found the brain of a porpoise, which weighed j ninety-six pounds avoirdupoise, to w^eigh sixteen ounces and a half. I found the w'cight ! of the brain of an adult male porpoise to be one pound tw o ounces and three quarters avoirdupois.]