278 ON THE COLOUR OF THE PIGMENTUM OF THE EYE. mouse, &c. it is completed in one. But this change is not always to white, though still approaching nearer to it in the young than in the parent, being sometimes to dun, at others to spotted, of all the various shades between the two extremes. This alteration in colour being con- stantly from dark to lighter, may we not reasonably infer that in all animals subject to such variation the darkest of the species should be reckoned nearest to the original; and that where there are specimens of a particular kind, entirely black, the whole have been originally black? Without this supposition it will be impossible, on the principle I have stated, to account for individuals of any class being black. Every such variety may be considered as arising in the cultivated state of animals; but whether, if left to themselves, they would in time resume their ori- ginal appearance, I do not know*. The colour of the pigmentum of the eye always corresponds, I believe, with that of the hair and skin, especially if the animal be only of one colour, but is principally determined by the hair; and the most general colour is a very dark brown, approaching to black, from whence it had the name, nigrum pigmentum f. The colour differs in different classes of animals, often in the same class, and even in the same species. In the human it is most commonly dark, in the ferret kind always light, and its difference of colour in the same species is evident from the vari- ety observable in the eyes of different people. There is even a difference of colour in the same eye in many classes of animals, in all of the cat and dog kind, and perhaps in most part of the granivorous. In some it is partly black, and partly of the appearance of polished silver; and in many classes the variation from dark is of two colours : for in the cow, in sheep, deer, horses, and I believe in all animals feeding on grass, there are in the same eye certain portions of it white, and others of a fine green colour. The difference in colour of this pigmentum in the eyes of different animals of the same species is very remarkable : in the human species it is of all the different shades between black and almost white, and the same variety is seen in rabbits, mice, crows, blackbirds, &c., but in these it is of one colour only in the same eye. Every spe- cies is, perhaps, subject to such variations; and some of these are so extraordinary as with propriety to be denominated monstrous J. * In vegetables, I believe, it invariably holds good that, however improved by cul- ture, if neglected, they soon degenerate into their first state. f As the colour of this membrane corresponds with the colour of the skin and hair of the person, it is probable that the people among whom it first got the name were dark. X Perhaps the word moostrous is too strong, or not exactly just. It certainly may be laid down as one of the principles or laws of Nature to deviate under certain circum- stances. It may also be observed, that it is neither necessary, nor does it follow that