OBSERVATIONS ON SOME FOSSIL BONES. 478 situations is uniform, probably in common about 52° or 53°, and in the colder regions they are still longer preserved. I believe it is generally understood that in extraneous fossils the animal part is destroyed, but I find that this is not the case in any I have met with. Shells, and bones of fish, most probably have the least in quantity, having been longest in that state; otherwise they should have the most; for the harder and more compact the earth, the better is the animal part preserved, which is an argument in proof of their having been the longest in a fossil state. From experiment and observation the animal part is not allowed to putrefy; it appears only to be dissolved into a kind of mucus, and can be discovered by dissolving the earth in an acid: when a shell is treated in this way the animal substance is not fibrous or laminated, as in the recent shell, but without tenacity, and can be washed off like wet dust j in some, however, it has a slight appearance of flakes. In the shark's tooth, or glosso-petra, the enamel is composed of animal substance and calcareous earth, and is nearly in the same quantity as in the recent; but the central part of the tooth has its animal substance in the state of mucus interspersed in the calcareous matter. In the fossil bones of sea animals, as the vertebrae of the whale, the animal part is in large quantity, and in two states, the one having some tenacity, but the other like wet dust; but in some of the harder bones it is more firm. In the fossil bones of land animals, and those which inhabit the waters, as the sea-horse, otter, crocodile, and turtle, the animal part is in considerable quantity. In the stags’ horns dug up in Great Britain and Ireland, when the earth is dissolved, the animal part is in considerable quantity, and very firm. The same observations ap- ply to the fossil bones of the elephant found in England, Siberia, and other parts of the globe; also those of the ox kind; but more particu- larly to their teeth, especially those from the lakes in America, in which the animal part has suffered very little; the inhabitants find little differ- ence in the ivory of such tusks from the recent, but its having a yellow stain; the cold may probably assist in their preservation. The state of preservation will vary according to the substance in which they have been preserved ; in peat and clay I think the most; however, there appears in general a species of dissolution, for the ani- mal substance, although tolerably firm, in a heat a little above 100° becomes a thickish mucus, like dissolved gum, while a portion from the external surface is reduced to the state of wet dust. In incrusted bones the quantity of animal substance is very different in different bones. In those from Gibraltar there is very little; it in