ON THE COLOUR OF THE PIGMENTUM OF THE EYE. 281 dark and light, corresponding with the colour of the hair; yet there seem to be exceptions to this rule in some white rabbits with black eyes, and therefore with black pigmentum ; but in all such there is either a circle of black hair surrounding the eye or the eyelashes, and the skin forming the edge of the lid is also black. In many white cattle this is also ob- servable ; and in that breed of dogs called Danes some have the hair surrounding one eye black, while the hair surrounding the other is white; and the iris of the one is often lighter than that of the other. This cir- cumstance, of the iris of one eye being lighter in colour than that of the other, is a common thing in the human species; and sometimes only one half of the iris is light, without any difference in the colour of the eyelash or eyebrow. Whether this difference in the colour of the iris of the two eyes in the same animal is owing to the pigmentum being different in colour, I do not know, although I rather suspect it is some- thing similar to the white iris in horses, -which makes them what is called wall-eyed. The variation of colour appears most remarkable when a white starts up, either where the whole species is black, as in the crow or blackbird, or where only a certain part of the species is black (but permanently so), as a white child born of black parents; and a perfectly white child, whose hair is white, and who has the pigmentum also white, though born of parents who are fair, should as much be considered as a play of Nature as the others. All these lusus naturse, such as the white negro, the pure white child of fair parents, the white crow, the white blackbird, white mice, &c. have likewise a. white pigmentum corresponding with the colour of the hair, feathers, and skin. Besides the circumstance of animals of the same species differing from one another in colour, there are some distinct species which are, as far as w^e know, alw-^ays of a light colour, arid in them, too, this pigmentum is white : the animal I allude to is the ferret. When the pigmentum is of more than one colour in the same eye, the lighter portion is always placed at the bottom of the eye, in the shape of p half-moon, with the circular arch upwards, the straight line or di- ameter passing almost horizontally across the lower edge of the optic nerve, so that the end of the nerve is within this lighter coloured part, which makes a kind of semicircular sweep above it. This shape is pe- culiar to the cat, lion, dog, and most of the carnivorous tribe; in the herbivorous the upper edge being irregular; in the seal, however, the light part of this pigmentum is equally disposed all round the optic nerve, and is, on the whole, broader than it is commonly found in qua- drupeds. How far this increase of surface is an approach towards the fish kind, in which it is wdiolly of this metallic white, I will not pretend