406 OF THE ELECTRIC PROPERTY OF THE TORPEDO. spect to electricity, of being instantly thrown, by a mere energy, into an opposition of a plus and minus state, like that of the charged phial: that, when they are thus charged, the upper surfaces of the two are in the same state of electricity; as are the under surfaces of the two, though in a contrary to that of the upper; for no shock can be ob- tained by an insulated person touching both organs above, or both be- low : and that the production of the effect depends solely on an inter- course being made between the opposite surfaces of the organs, whe- ther taken singly or jointly. All the parts bordering on the organs act more or less as conductors, either through their substance or by their superficies. While an in- sulated person, placing two fingers on the same surface of one or both organs, cannot be affected, if he removes one of his fingers to any such contiguous part he will be liable to a shock; but this shock will not be near, perhaps not half so violent as one taken immediately between the opposite surfaces of the organ, which shows the conduction to be very imperfect. The parts which conduct the best are the two great lateral fins bounding the organs outwardly, and the space lying between the two organs inwardly. All below the double transverse cartilages scarcely conduct at all, unless when the fish is just taken out of water and is still wet, the mucus with which he is lubricated showing itself as it dries to be of an insulating nature. The organs themselves when uncharged appeared to be, not inte- riorly we might suppose, but rather exteriorly, conductors of a shock. An insulated person touching two torpedos, lying near one another on .a damp table, with fingers placed, one on the organ of one fish, and another on the organ of the other, was sensible of shocks, sometimes delivered by one fish, and sometimes by the other, as might be disco- vered by the respective winking of their eyes. That the organs un- charged served some way or other as conductors, was confirmed with artificial electricity, in passing shocks by them, and in taking sparks from them when electrified. The electric effect was never perceived by us to be attended with any motion or alteration in the organs themselves, but was frequently accompanied with a little transient agitation along the cartilages which surround both organs : this is not discernible in the plump and turgid state of the animal while he is fresh and vigorous; but as his force decays, from the relaxation of his muscles, his cartilages appear through the skin, and then the slight action along them is discovered. May we not from all these premises conclude, that the effect of tlie torpedo proceeds from a modification of the electric fluid } The torpedo