OF THE WOLF, JACKAL, AND DOG. 326 several dogs were procured and left with her. They appeared indiffer- ent about her, probably from being in a strange place; nor did she seem inclined to be familiar with them. One was a large dog, which might not perhaps be able to line her; but she was twice tied by a ter- rier on the 3rd of October. In a few weeks she was evidently bigger; and on the 30th of November, in all fifty-nine days, brought forth five puppies. A few days before this period she dug a hole in the ground, by the side of her kennel, in which she littered; and it was some time before she would allow the puppies to stay in the kennel when put there. Some of these began to open their eyelids in about eight, others of them in nine days. Here then being an absolute proof of the jackal being a dog, and the wolf being equally made out to be of the same species, it now therefore becomes a question whether the wolf is from the jackal, or the jackal from the wolf (supposing them but one origin) } From the supposition that varieties become more tame in their nature than the originals, we should be led to believe the wolf to be the original, and that the jackal was a step towards civilisation in that species of animal, and that there- fore the jackal should be considered as a variety of the wolf. There are wolves of various kinds, each country having a kind peculiar to itself; but the jackals that I have seen have been more uniform in resemblance to each other, probably because only to be found in one country, the East Indies. I am informed, however, that they vary in size. Whether the wolves of different countries are of one species, or some of them only of the same genus, I do not know; but I should rather suppose them to be all of one species. An argument with me in favour of this supposition is, that if there were wolves of distinct species, we should have had by this time a great variety of every species of wolf, with the various disposi- tions arising from variation in other respects ; and those varieties would now have been turned to very useful purposes, as in the case of the dog: for all the wolves we are yet acquainted with should have naturally the principle of cultivation in them (as much probably as any animal), as much at least as those wolves we now know by the name of dogs. The not having a civilised species with all the characteristics of the wolf is, indeed, with me a proof that they are all of the same species with the dog. If they are aU of the same species with the dog, then the first variety that took place would be still in the character of a wolf, differ- ing only in colour or some trivial circumstance, which could only arise from a difference in climate. The wolf is naturally, I believe, the in- habitant of cold climates, and little variety could take place while it remained in such a situation; but if the jackal was originally a wolf, which had strayed by accident more to the southward, a greater varia- tion from the genuine character might be produced, the difference of