444 OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. the winter ; and in such case a new swarm is thrown off, which, how- ever, is commonly not a large one, and generally has too little time to complete its comb, and store it with honey sufficient to preserve them through the winter. This is similar to the second or third swarm of the old hives. Of the Seasons when the different operations of Bees take place, I have already observed that the new colony immediately sets about the increase of their numbers, and everything relating to it. They had their apartments to build, both for the purpose of breeding, and as a storehouse for provisions for the winter. When the season for laying eggs is over, then is the season for collecting honey; therefore when the last chrysalis for the season comes forth its cell is immediately filled with honey, and as soon as a cell is full it is covered over with pure wax, and is to be considered as store for the winter. This covering answers two very essential purposes ; one is to keep it from spilling, or daubing the bees; the other to prevent its evaporation, by which means it is kept fluid in such a warmth. They are also employed in laying up a store of bee-bread for the young maggots in the spring, for they begin to bring forth much earlier than probably any other insect, because they retain a summer heat and store up food for the young. In the month of August we may suppose the queen or queens are impregnated by the males; and as the males do not provide for them- selves, they become burdensome to the workers, and are therefore teazed to death much sooner than they otherwise would die; and when the bees set about this business of providing their winter store, every ope- ration is over, except the collecting of honey and bee-bread. At this time it would seem as if the males were conscious of their danger, for they do not rest on the mouth of the hive in either going out or coming in, but hurry either in or out; however, they are commonly attacked by one, two, or three at a time : they seem to make no resistance, only getting away as fast as possible. The labourers do not sting them, only pinch them, and pull them about as if to wear them out; but I sus2)ect it may be called as much a natural as a violent death. The whole of the males are now destroyed, and indeed it would have been useless to have saved any to impregnate the queen in the spring. That there may be many more than may be wanted I can easily believe, for this we see throughout nature ; but she always times her operations well, although there may be supernumeraries. When the young are w'holly come forth, and either the cells entirely filled, or no more honey to be collected, then is the time or season for remaining in their hives for the winter.