142 ON ANIMALS PRODUCING HEAT. above 0, and left there for fifteen minutes; after which, the thermo- meter being introduced a second time, it rose to 85°. Experiment X. The mouse was again put into a cold atmosphere for fifteen minutes ; and the thermometer being introduced, the quicksilver at first rose to 72° only, but gradually came up to 83°, 84°, and 85°. Experiment XI. It was put a third time into the cold atmosphere, and allowed to stay there for thirty minutes; the lower part of the mouse, at the bottom of the dish, was almost frozen; the whole of the animal was numbed, and a good deal weakened. The thermometer being introduced, the heat was found to vary in different parts of the belly: in the pelvis, near the parts most exposed to the cold, it was as low as 62°; in the middle, among the intestines, about 70; but near the diaphragm it rose to 80°, 82°, 84°, and 85°; so that in the middle of the body the heat had decreased 10°. Finding a variation in differ- ent parts of the same cavity in the same animal, I repeated the same experiments upon another dormouse. Experiment XII. Having brought a healthy dormouse, which had been asleep from the coldness of the atmosphere, into a room in which there was a fire (the atmosphere at 64°), I introduced the thermometer into its belly, nearly at the middle, between the thorax and pubis, and the quicksilver rose to 74° or 75°; turning the ball towards the dia- phragm, it rose to 80°; and when I applied it to the liver, it rose to 8U°. Experiment XIII. The mouse being placed in an atmosphere at 20°, and left there half an hour, when taken out was very lively, even much more so than when put in. Introducing the thermometer into the lower part of the belly, the quicksilver rose to 91° ; and upon turning it up to the liver to 93°. Experiment XIV. The animal being replaced in the cold atmo- sphere at 30° for an hour, the thermometer was again introduced into the belly; at the liver it rose to 93° ; in the pelvis to 92°; the mouse continuing very lively. Experiment XV. It was again put back into an atmosphere, cooled to 19°, and left there an hour; the thermometer at the diaphragm was 87°; in the pelvis 83°; but the animal was now less lively. Experiment XVI. Having been put into its cage, the thermometer being placed at the diaphragm, in two hours afterwards was at 93°. As I was unable to procure hedgehogs in the torpid state, to ascer- tain their heat during that period, I got my friend Mr. Jenner% sur- geon, at Berkeley, to make the same experiments on that animal, that I [Afterwards Dr. .Tenner, the discoverer of Vaccination.]