FROM NEW SOUTH WALES. 487 of which the hind legs are composed are very different. The thigh of the kangaroo is extremely short, and the leg is very long. The hind foot is uncommonly long, on which, to appearance, are placed three toes, the middle toe by much the largest and the strongest, and looks something like the long toe of an ostrich. The outer toe is next in size ; and what appears to be the inner toe, is two inclosed in one skin or covering. The great toe nail much resembles that of an ostrich, as also the nail of the outer toe; and the inner, which appears to be but one toe, has two small nails, which are bent and sharps. From the heel along the under side of the foot and toe, the skin is adapted for walking upon. The fore legs, in the full-grown kangaroo, are small in proportion to the hind, or the size of the animal; the feet, or hands, are also small. The skin on the palm is different from that on the back of the hand and fingers. There are five toes or fingers on this foot, the middle rather the largest; the others become very gradually shorter, and are all nearly of the same shape. The nails are sharp, fit for holding. The tail is long in the old, but not so long, in proportion to the size of the animal, in the young. It would seem to keep pace with the growth of the hind legs, which are the instruments of progressive motion in this animal, and which would also show that the tail is a kind of second instrument in this action^. The under lip is divided in the middle, each side rounded off at the division. It has two clavicles, but they are short, so that the shoulders are not thrown out. The Potoroo or Kangaroo Rat^. The head is flat sideways, but not so much so as in the true Scalpris dcntata. The ears are neither long nor short, but much like those of a mouse in proportion to the size of the animal. [Each of these toes has its proper metatarsal and phalangeal hones.] [It must be remembered that at this time Hunter had never seen the living kan- garoo, hut the numerous opportunities of witnessing the locomotion of this remarkable animal afforded to subsequent observers have all testified to the sagacity of his pre- vision of the use of the tail.] [This animal differs from the kangaroo in having two small canines, in addition to the six incisors in the upper jaw. The first compressed or false molar on each side of each jaw, which is shed in the great kangaroo, is here retained. The first incisors of the upper jaw are also relatively longer and more curved. The potoroo, therefore, forms the type of a distinct genus, which was named by Illiger ‘ Hypsiprymnus, ’ from the Greek word 'Y\[/i7rpv/nvos, signifying the hinder parts raised. Of this genus three or four species have been indicated. The skin and cranium of the individual described