OF ABSORPTION BY VEINS. 302 ** I tied up the mesenteric artery and vein that was going to about half a foot of intestine, and put a tight ligature upon the upper part of the intestine, including a little of the mesentery; then emptied that part of the -gut by squeezing it downwards, and put a similar ligature upon the lower part of the gut. In the next place, I made a small hole in the upper end of this part of the gut, and by a funnel poured in some warm milk, and confined it by making a third ligature upon the gut close to this hole. These ligatures prevented the circulation of blood in this part of the bowel. Lastly, I punctured the vein beyond the ligature that had been made upon the mesenteric vessels, and by gently stroking with the end of the finger soon emptied it of its blood. “ Experiment II. I immediately after tliis made the same experi- ment, and in the same manner, on a j)art of the intestine lower down, where the lacteals were filled with a transparent liquor. In the first experiment the lacteals continued to be filled with a milky or white fluid : in the second, the lacteals, which before contained only a transparent lymph, were presently filled with white milk. “In both these experiments we could not observe that the least white fluid had got into the veins. After attending to these appearances a little while, I put all the bowels into the abdomen for some time, that the natural absorption might be assisted by the natural warmth; then took out and examined attentively the two parts of the gut and mesen- tery upon which the experiments had been made : but the lacteals were still filled with milk, and there was not the least appearance of a white fluid in the veins; on the contrary, what little blood was in them was just as thick and as deep-coloured as in the otherveins, and when squeezed out from them coagulated as the blood of other veins. “ Experiment III. I tied up and filled another piece of the intestine with milk in the same manner, but did not make a ligature upon the mesenteric vessels, leaving a free circulation in the part. We looked very attentively at the colour of the blood in the vein of that part, both with our naked eyes and with glasses ; we compared it with that in the artery and in the neighbouring veins, but could not observe that it was lighter-coloured, nor that it was milky, nor that there was any differ- ence whatever. “ Experiment IV. Lastly, we took that part of the gut which was filled with milk in the first or second experiment, and squeezed and pressed it very gradually, in order to see whether any milk would by these means pass into the empty mesenteric veins. This we did gra- dually, with more and more force, till the gut at last burst; but still there was not the least appearance of anything milky in the veins.