145 ON ANIMALS PRODUCING HEAT. Experiment XVH. I made use of one strong and vigorous; and the atmosphere being at 60°, I introduced the thermometer into the abdo- men : the ball being at the diaphragm the quicksilver was raised to 99°, but at the pelvis only to 964°. Here there was a real difference of about 9° between the dormouse and the common, the dormouse only raising it to 80°, in two animals of the same size, in some degree of the same genus, and at the same season of the year, and the atmosphere of nearly the same temperature. Experiment XVIII. The same mouse was put into a cold atmosphere of 13° for an hour, and then the thermometer was introduced as before ; but the animal had lost heat, for the quicksilver at the diaphragm was raised only to 83°, in the pelvis to 78°. Here the real heat of the animal was diminished 16° at the diaphragm, and 18° in the pelvis, while in the dormouse it gained 5°, but lost upon a repetition. Experiment XIX. In order to determine whether an animal that is weakened has the same powers, with respect to preserving heat and cold, as one that is vigorous and strong, I weakened a mouse by fasting, and then introduced the ball of the thermometer into its belly : the ball being at the diaphragm, the quicksilver rose to 97°; in the pelvis to 95°, being two degrees colder than the strong mouse. The mouse being put into an atmosphere as cold as the other, and the thermometer again intro- duced, the quicksilver stood at 79° at the diaphragm, and 74° in the pelvis. In this experiment the heat at the diaphragm was diminished 18°, in the pelvis 21°. This greater diminution of heat in the second than in the first we may suppose proportional to the decreased power of the animal, arising from want of food. To determine how far different parts of other animals than those al- ready mentioned were of different degrees of heat, I made the following experiments upon a healthy dog. Experiment XX. The ball of the thermometer being introduced two inches within the rectum, the quicksilver rose to 1004°. The chest of the dog was then opened, and a wound made into the right ventricle of the heart; and immediately on the ball being introduced, the quicksilver rose to 101° exactly. A wound was next made some way into the substance of the liver, and the ball being introduced, the quicksilver rose to 100-1-°. It was next introduced into the cavity of the stomach, where it stood exactly at 101°. All these experiments were made within a few minutes. VOL. IV. L