230 ON THE COLOUR. OF THE PIGMENTUM OF THE EYE. quently varies from that of the foetus, which last is more liable to change its colour than the other; and the change is generall)^ that of growing darker, especially on the head and the eyelashes*. This difference in the colour of the hair on different parts of the body is not so observable in those nations who are dark or swarthy, as in people inhabiting many of the northern climates. In animals w’hich are var-iegated let us observe the colour of this pig- mentum, and we shall find it regulated by some general principle, and corresponding with the colour of the eyelashes. The magpie, for in- stance, is nearly one third, or fourth part white; and the two colours, if blended, w^ould make the compound grey; but the eyelashes being black the pigraentum is black also. We sometimes meet with people whose skin and hair are very white and yet the iris is dark, which is a sign of a dark pigmentum; but if we examine more carefully we shall also find that the eyelashes are dark, although the eyebrows may be the colour of the common hair. As the colour of the iris in the human species is probably a presum- ptive, though not a certain sign of the colour of this pigmentum, we may be led to suppose that in those who have the iris in one eye differ- ent from that of the other, this substance will likewise differ; but this I cannot determine, never having examined the eyes of any person with such a peculiarity. It is not an uncommon circumstance in some spe- cies of animals, the Angola cat seldom having the colour of the iris the same in both eyes. In people remarkably fair, whether they are of a race that is naturally so, or what may be called monstrous in respect to colour, as white ^Ethiopians, still we find this pigmentum following the colour of the skin and hair, being in some of a light brown, and in others almost white, according to the colour of the hair in such people. All foals are of the same colour, and whatever that may be, as they grow older it generall}' becomes lighter, therefore the pigmentum in them is almost always of the same colour, and does not seem to change with the hair. This change, however, is only in the hair, and not in the skin, the skin of a white or grey horse being as dark as the skin of a black one : yet there is a cream-coloured breed which has the skin of the same colour, whose foals are also of a cream-colour; and by inspecting the parts not covered with hair, such as the mouth, anus, sheath, &c., these, and the pigmentum of the eyes of such horses, are found of a cream-colour likewise. In the pigmentum of the rabbit kind there are all the degrees of * The hair growing grey is not in the least to the present purpose.