105 OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION and in the appendages which I have considered as only reservoirs pre- paratory to digestion, (as the first stomach in the ruminating animal, and the crop in birds,) I have discovered no such power. Yet it is not the digestive power which coagulates those substances, complete co- agulation taking place even where digestion does not at all go on^. This is evident every day in children who suck, and who have diseased stomachs; for we see them throw up the milk coagulated, and discharge it undigested by stool. A very remarkable instance occurred in a child that had lost entirely the power of digestion, yet the milk taken down came away strongly coagulated, some even as firm almost as cheese; which seems to show that the coagulating power is seldom wanting, although the other may. The gastric juice is a fluid somewhat transparent, and a little saltish or brackish to the taste; but whether this is essential or only accidental is not easily determined.' Indeed there are very few of our secretions which have not some salt in them ; it being found in the tears, the sa- liva, the secretion of the glans penis, of the glands of the urethra, and in the first and the last milk secreted in the udders of animals. I am not inclined to suppose that there is any acid in the gastric juice as a component or essential part of it, although an acid is very com- monly discovered, even when no vegetable matter has been introduced into the stomach*. The acid may he increased in some diseases, and * The only trial to which I ever put the gastric juice w'as with the syrup of violets, to ascertain if it was acid; and in many of the trials the colour of the mixture was cnanged the Series of Digestive Organs, (Phys. Catalogue of the Hunterian Collection, vol. i.) he says, “ In some reptiles the teeth are placed in the oesophagus,” alluding to prepa- rations of a Nereis; and in a manuscript, published in the same volume of the Physio- logical Catalogue, there is proof that he experimented on an insect with especial refe- rence to the seat of the digestive power. After detailing the peculiarities of the diges- tive organs in the flesh-fly {Musca vomitorla), he observes: “ The bag belonging to the first-described canal is to be considered a craw or crop, viz. a reservoir for the food to be ready for digestion; and as the abdomen contains almost every internal part of the animal, it is obliged to be situated in this cavity. That it is a reservoir for food I proved by experiment: I kept some of these flies fasting for some time: I then gave them milk, which they drank readily; and when I thought they had filled their bellies, I put them into spirits, which assisted in coagulating the milk wherever it might be. On opening the abdomen, I found this bag full of curd and whey, as also some in the stomach. I kept a fly for twelve hours without food, and then gave it milk, and killed it, and found no milk in the crop, but it had got through almost the whole tract of intestines: here the animal had immediate occasion for food, therefore the milk did not go into the crop. This experiment at the same time show's that, probably, every part of the intestine digests, for the stomach makes no distinct bag.”] * [Or rather the digestive power may be equal to the coagulation, but not to the com- pletion of the digestion of the coagulable substances.]