41 OF THE FREE-MARTIN. are wetted by it, and being covered with wool, and retaining the urine, keeps them continually moist, and gives the animal a strong smell. Tliey are mentioned as both male and female. I believe it had never been even conjectured, notwithstanding all these peculiarities, what was the true nature of the free-martin; and from the singularity of the animal, and the account of its production, I was almost tempted to suppose the whole a vulgar error. Yet by the universality of the testimony in its favour, it appearing to have some foundation, I eagerly sought for an opportunity to see and examine them. I have succeeded in this inquiry, and have seen several, the first of which w’as one belonging to John Arbuthnot, Esq. of Mitcham, and was calved in his own farm. He was so obliging as to allow me to satisfy myself, first by permitting a drawing to be made of the animal while alive, which was executed by Mr. Gilpin, and afterwards to examine the parts when the animal died. At the time the drawing was made of Mr. Arbuthnot’s free-martin, John Wells, Esq. of Bickley Farm, near Bromley in Kent, was present, and informed us that a cow of his had calved two calves, one of which was a bull-calf, and the other a cow-calf. I desired Mr. Arbuthnot to request Mr. Wells to keep them, or let me buy them of him; but, from his great desire of natural knowledge, he very readily consented to preserve both till the bull showed all the signs of a good bull; and when the free-martin was killed, he allowed me to inspect the parts. Of all the specimens which I have dissected, I shall only give the de- scriptions of the three which point out most distinctly the complete free-martin, with the gradations towards the male and female. THE DESCRIPTION OF THE THREE FREE-MARTINS. Mr. Wright's Free-Martin, jive years old. This animal had more the appearance and general character of the ox, or spayed heifer, than of either the bull or cow. The vagina ter- minated in a blind end, a little way beyond the opening of the urethra, from which the vagina and uterus were impervious. The uterus, at its extreme part, divided into two horns. At the termination of the horns were placed the testicles, instead of the ovaria, as is the case in the fe- male. The reasons why I call these bodies testicles are the following. First, they were above twenty times larger than the ovaria of the cow, and nearly the size of the testicles of the bull, or rather of those of the ridgil, the bull whose testicles never come down. Secondly, the sper- matic arteries were similar to those of the bull, especially of the ridgil.