450 OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. light part does not terminate in a straight line, but in two curves,, making a peak, all which gives the belly a lighter colour in the la- bouring bees; more especially when it is pulled out or elongated. The tongue of the female is considerably shorter than that of the la- bouring bee, more like that of the male; however, the tongues of the labourers are not in all of an equal length, but none have it so short as the queen. The size of the belly of the female of such animals varies a little, according to the condition they are in; but the belly of the male and the labourer has but little occasion to change its size, as they are at all times nearly in the same condition with regard to fat, having always plenty of provision ; but the true female varies very considerably ; she is of a different size and shape in the summer to what she is in the winter; and in the winter she has what may be called her natural size and shape ; she is upon the whole rather thicker than the labourer, and this thickness is also in the belly, which probably arises from the cir- cumstance of the oviduct being in the winter pretty large, and the re- servoir for semen full. The termination of the belly is rather more peaked than in the labourers, the last scale being rather narrower from side to side, and coming more to a point at the anus. The scales at this season are more overlapped, which can only be known by drawing them out. In the spring and summer she is more easily distinguished j the belly is not only thicker, but considerably longer than formerly, which arises from the increase of the eggs. We distinguish a queen from the working bee simply by size, and in some degree by colour; but this last is not so easily ascertained, because the difference in the colour is not so remarkable in the back, and the only view we can com- monly get of her is on this part; but when a hive is killed, the best way is to collect all the bees, and spread them on white paper, or put them into water in a broad, flat-bottomed, shallow white dish, in which they swim; and by looking at them singly, she may be discovered. As the queen breeds the first year she is produced, and the oviducts never entirely subside, an old queen is probably thicker than a new-bred one, unless indeed the oviducts and the eggs form in the chrysalis state, as in the silk-worm, which I should suppose they did. The queen is perhaps at the smallest size just as she has done breeding, for as she is to lay eggs by the month of March, she must begin early to fill again ; but I believe her oviducts are never emptied, having at all times eggs in them, although but small. She has fat in her belly, similar to the other bees. It is most probable that the queen which goes off with the swarm is a young one, for the males go off with the swarm to impregnate her, as