ON THE GLANDS CALLED VESICULiE SEMINALES. 33 men acting as a stimulus to the cavity of the bulb of the urethra, the muscles of that part of the canal are thrown into action; the fibres near- est the bladder, probably, act first, and those more forward in quick succession ; the semen is projected with some force; the blood in the bulb of the urethra is by the same action squeezed forward, but re- quiring a greater impulse to propel it, is rather later than the semen, on which it presses from behind; the corpus spongiosum being full of blood, acts almost as quick as undulation, in which it is assisted by the cor- responding constriction of the urethra, and the semen is hurried along with a considerable velocity^. From the facts which I have stated respecting the organs of genera- tion, the observations which I have made, and the series of actions which I have considered as taking place in the copulation of animals, I think the following inferences may be fairly drawn ; That the bags, called vesiculae seminales, are not seminal reservoirs, but glands secreting a peculiar mucus ; and that the bulb of the urethra is, properly speaking, the receptacle in which the semen is accumulated previous to ejection. Although it seems to have been proved that the vesiculm do not con- tain the semen, I have not been able to ascertain their particular use; we may, however, be allowed upon the whole to conclude that they are, together with other parts, subservient to the purposes of generation. bulb, and are only liable to compression made by the intumescence of the muscles C C (muscles of the bulb) that inclose them. “ But the chief agent in continuing the erec- tion of the penis in this animal is the sphincter muscle of its anus, or rather cloaca; and not only the sphincter muscle of the cloaca of the male oppossum, but that of the fe- male also closely embraces the penis in coition, and effectually retard the refluent blood from its corpora cavernosa, by compressing the veins of the penis.” (Phil. Trans., vol. xxiv. 1704, p. 1584.)] ® [Besides the functions here assigned to the bulb of the urethra, in relation to the reception and propulsion of the semen, we may also notice its uses in reference to the distention of the glans penis, of which Cowper, in his description of the male organs of the opossum above quoted, gives a remarkable example. He observes: “ As the bulb of the urethra in man is framed for the use of the glans, to keep it sufficiently distended when required, so it seems it is necessary to have two of these bulbs inclosed with their particular muscles in this animal, to maintain the turgescence of its double or forked glans when the penis is erected.” (Phil. Trans., vol. xxiv., 1704, p. 1585.)]