AND GECONOMY OF WHALES. 333 examined in part, the animals having been too long kept before I pro- cured them to admit of more than a very superficial inspection®. * [Cuvier, in his masterly Chapter on existing Cetaceans (Ossem. Foss., tom. v. pt. i.), divides the Balcents or true vv^hales, (cetaceans having the roof of the mouth furnished with baleen or whalebone,) into those which have, and those which have not a dorsal fin. Of the latter he admits but one species, frequenting the northern latitudes, to be accmately defined, viz. the Balmna Mysticetus of Linnaeus, and which Hunter, from the relative size of its baleen-plates terms the ‘ large whalebone whale.' The species of Balcena found in the southern latitudes differs, according to Cuvier, from the Bal. Mysticetus, in ha\dng all its cervical vertebrae anchylosed, while in Bal. Mysticetus the five posterior cervical vertebrae remain detached; and in the number of ribs, which are thirteen pairs in the Bal. Mysticetus, and fifteen in the Bal. Australis: there are also well-marked differences in the form of the skull in the two species. Of the fin-backed whales or Balcenopterce, Cuvier considers the existence of the spe- cies without ventral plicae, called gibhar or finfish, as reposing on more than doubtful au- thority : in the original figure by Martens (Voyage du Spitzberg, 1671), Cuvier supposes that the plicae were accidentally omitted, rather than absent in nature, since he finds that the skull of the so called gibhar, figured by Camper, and its skeleton figured by Albers {leones ad Anat., Comp, illustr.), are identical with those of the Rorquals or Balcenopterce with the skin of the throat and fore part of the abdomen disposed in lon- gitudinal folds. Mr. Hunter had evidently never met with a specimen of the supposed gibbar, and, as he derived his observations from Nature alone, he did not contribute tow'ards perpetuating the error of Martens, as most nomenclative naturalists and com- pilers had done up to his time, and continued to do until the publication of the w orks of Scoresby and Cuvier. The principal characters by which the Rorquals {Balcenoptera) differ from the Balcence are the greater flatness of the head, the lower jaw projecting beyond the upper, the skin under the throat, chest, and anterior part of the abdomen longitudinally plicated and dilatable; the short and hard baleen-plates, terminating in stiff and brittle bristles, a short and thick fin on the hinder region of the back. Of the Balcenopterce which frequent the northern latitudes three species have been admitted into the Zoologists’ Catalogues, Balcenoptera Boops, Bal. musculus, Bal. ros- trata. Cuvier submits these species to a criticism, severe, as usual, but just: he finds that no two of the species have ever been compared or seen by one naturalist, either together or at different periods; that the only appreciable differences he can gather from the best of their accounts resolve themselves into those of size or degrees of muti- lation of the dorsal fin : and he asks, “ Qui oseroit, d’apres I’observation d’individus vus isolement a de grandes distances de temps et de lieux, et par de personnes di- verses, soutenir que ces differences ne venoient pas de I’age ?” Fabricius, however, as- signs three rows of low ridges on the upper part of the head, extending forwards from the blow-holes, as a character distinguishing his Balcena Boops from Balcena rostrata: a more important distinction is afforded by the number of vertebrae. (See note, p. 340.) The Bal. musculus attains, according to Scoresby, the length of seventy or eighty feet; the Bal. Bocyps of the same author that of forty-six feet. The Bal. rostrata of Fabricius is variously described as seventeen, twenty, and twenty-five feet in length. The young Rorqual dissected by Hunter was but seventeen feet long, and he accord- ingly refers it to the Bal. rostrata of Fabricius. In speaking of it he generally uses the term applied by Sibbald to the species of wdfich this is supposed by Cuvier to be the young, viz., ‘ piked whaleand sometimes from the relative size of the baleen plates, calls it ‘ smal Iwhalebone whale,’ in contradistinction to the ‘ large whalebone whale,'