166 OF PERSONS APPARENTLY DROWNED. an universal violence has not been committed,) be considered as the cri- terion of life ; and even in such cases should be for some time admitted as a probable reason for supposing life still to exist. If an animal appears so far dead as to have lost all the actions cha- racteristic of life, yet a certain degree of action in all the parts will be produced when absolute death is taking place ; and that animal, being still susceptible of stimulus, is recoverable if the proper stimulus could be applied. It is asserted that men have recovered the actions of life even after the contraction, in consequence of the stimulus which precedes death, has taken place. If this be true, which I very much doubt, the stimulus must first produce relaxation, which is an action dependent on life. This is probably the case in the first appearances of death from all violent accidents, except those caused by lightning, electricity, an uni- versal shock, a blow on the stomach, a violent affection of the mind, or some other modes by which absolute death may be instantaneously produced, which all appear to act in the same way, producing absolute and instant death. For in cases which have fallen under my observa- tion, the concomitant circumstances have resembled those which attend death caused by lightning or electricity, such as a total and instantaneous privation of sense and motion without convulsions; consequently, no rigor of muscles having been produced, and the blood remaining unco- agulated, differing entirely in these respects from what appears in per- sons deprived of sense and life by any injury done the brain. It seems only possible to account for this effect of a blow on the stomach, from the connexion subsisting between that viscus and every part of the body, at least with vital parts; the blow most probably causing instant death in that organ, of which the death of the whole animal is the conse- quence*. When death takes place from violent affections of the mind, it must be referred to the universal influence which the mind has over the body. To ascertain when a body is deprived of life it is first necessary to know in what manner apparent death took place; whether in the com- mon way, or from the vital actions being too long suspended. In either case stiffness of the muscles is probably the most certain and most evi- • I should consider the situation of a person drowned to be similar to that of a per- son in a trance. In both the action of life is suspended without the power being de- stroyed ; but I am inclined to believe that a greater proportion of persons recover from trances than from drowning, because a trance is the natural effect of a disposition in the person to have the action of life suspended for a time ; b>it drowning being produced by violence, the suspension will more frequently last for ever, unless the power of life is roused to action by some applications of art.