CROOiVIAN LECTURES ON AJUSCULAR MOTION. 213 and the organ is large in the same manner as the communication be- tween the senses in general and the brain is large. The voluntary muscles have large nerves to command the action of the muscle, which is independent of the will, although in some degree subservient to it; but they are not so large as those of the senses or electric organs, where they give the part its whole action. A nerve being cut going to a voluntary muscle, the muscle cannot obey the will, and thereby loses its voluntary actions; but it may be stimulated into action by immediate impression from other causes, as electricity. The voluntary and involuntary muscles having their quantity of mo- tion in an inverted proportion to their quantity of nerves, is a strong argument against the nerves being the cause of muscular motion. If it is asked why the involuntary parts have nerves at all, the answer may be given that it is not for their common actions, but to keep up the connexion between the whole, for without them an animal would become two distinct machines, and one might be acting very contra- dictorily to the other; but by the intercourse between the will and vo- luntary parts, between the voluntary and involuntary, and also between these last and the mind, an universal and uniform agreement or regula- tion is kept up, which communication produces one kind of sympathy. This connexion between the living principle and the sensitive produces a compound action, which becomes the cause of the instinctive principle in animals. Muscles are either emplo^^ed upon the internal operations of the ani- mal, as the heart, muscles of respiration, stomach, intestines, &c., or upon external matter for the support of both, as those of the extremities. The first of these are nearly of the same strength in the robust strong man and the small woman or man, if equally healthy; and it is right it should be so, for the small man has nearly the same resistance to cope with; but it is the others which constitute the strong or weak man. The power of muscles which are influenced by the will, although they have a common power of action with those independent of the will, sooner lose their powers than those which are wholly involuntary, as the heart, stomach, bladder, blood-vessels, &c., which would seem to show that the power of simple life lasts after the will is no more. We might naturally suppose that the voluntary muscles have nearly the same quantity of power of action as the involuntary ; but upon con- sidering several circumstances, we should rather conceive the contrary ; for when we consider the power by which the colon of a horse propels such a load of solid contents, we can hardly conceive the power of any voluntary muscle of the same thickness equal to it. For, as voluntary motion arises from two causes, or has two causes of action, the moment