OF THE FREE-MARTIN. 38 the animal’s being yet too young. There was no penis passing round the pubis to the belly, as in the perfect male ass. The external female parts were similar to those of the she-ass. Within the entrance of the vagina was placed the clitoris; but much longer than that of a true female, it measuring about five inches. The vagina was pervious a little beyond the opening of the urethra into it, and from thence up to the fundus of the uterus there was no canal. The uterus was hollow at the fundus, or had a cavity in it, and then divided into two horns, which were also pervious. Beyond the termi- nation of the two horns were placed the ovaria as in the true female; but I could not find the Fallopian tubes. From the broad ligaments, to the edges of which the horns of the uterus and ovaria are attached, there passed towards each groin a part similar to the round ligaments in the female, which were continued into the rings of the abdominal muscles; but with this difference, that there accompanied them a process or theca of the peritoneum, similar to the tunica vaginalis communis in the male ass; and in these thecae were found the testicles, but I could not ob- serve any vasa deferentia passing from them. Here then were found, in the same animal, the parts peculiar to each sex (although very imperfect), and that part which is common to both, but different in each, was a kind of medium of that difference. Something similar to the above I have seen in sheep, goats, &c.; but I shall not at present trouble the reader with a description of herma- phrodites in general, as it is a very extensive subject, admitting of great variety, which would make them appear a production of chance; whereas the intention of this account is to point out a circumstance which takes place in the production of hermaphrodites in black cattle that appears to be almost an established principle in their propagation, and is per- haps peculiar to that species of animal. It is a fact known, and I believe almost universally understood, that when a cow brings forth two calves, and one of them a bull-calf and the other to appearance a cow, that the cow-calf is unfit for propagation, but the bull-calf grows up into a very proper bull. Such a cow-calf is called in this country a free-martin, and is commonly as well known among the farmers as either cow or bull. Although it will appear, from the description of this animal, that it is an hermaphrodite (being in no respect different from other hermaphrodites), yet I shall retain the term, free-martin, to distinguish the hermaphrodite produced in this way from those which resemble the hermaphrodite of other animals; for I know that in black cattle such a deviation may be produced without the cir- cumstance of twins ; and even where there are twins, the one a male the