ON THE GLANDS CALLED VESICULiE SEMIN ALES. 21 and excite a degree of heat in the mouth. But the fluid contained in these vesiculse in a dead body is of a brownish colour, and often varies in consistence in different parts of the bag, as if not well mixed. Its smell does not resemble that of the semen, neither does it become more fluid by being exposed to the air. It may, however, be answered to this that the contents of the vesi- culae are generally found in a putrid state, and have by that means un- dergone a change in their sensible properties. But the objection is readily obviated by comparing this fluid with that in the vasa deferentia as it comes from the testicles of the same dead body, between which there appears to be no resemblance. To be still more certain of the nature of what these vesiculse contain than was possible from the examination of bodies which had been dead some time, I took an opportunity of opening a man, immediately after his death, who had been killed by a cannon-ball. The fluid in the vesi- culse was of a lighter colour than has usually been found in men who have been dead a considerable time; but it was not by any means like the semen either in colour or smell. In another man who died instan- taneously, in consequence of falling from a considerable height, whose body I inspected soon after the accident, the contents of the vesiculse W'ere of a lightish whey colour, having nothing of the smell of semen, and in so fluid a state as to run out on cutting into them. I have likewise examined with attention a mucus which some men discharge upon straining hard while at stool, or after throwing out the last drops of urine, an action which requires a considerable exertion of the parts. This discharge is generally called a seminal weakness, and is I believe commonly supposed to be the semen *; but in all the cases of this kind in which I have been, consulted it nearly resembled the con- tents of the vesiculae in the dead body, though perhaps not quite of so deep a colour. I endeavoured in vain to persuade a gentleman who had this complaint that the discharge was not seminal, till by examining his own semen and comparing it with that mucus he was convinced of the difference. This gentleman had the power of emitting the semen in the same quantity as usual immediately after the mucus had been discharged, which is a further proof that this fluid is not semenf. In this country eunuchs seldom come under our examination; but we have sometimes opportunities of opening the bodies of those who * Vide Treatise on the Venereal Disease, edit. 1st and 2nd, p. 197. [vol. ii. p. 303 of the present edition.] f The discharge was truly supposed to be the contents of the vesiculae; and, it being imagined that these contained semen, according to this reasoning the discharge must be seminal.