OF THE ELECTRIC PROPERTY OF THE TORPEDO. 405 would be the effect; and that the shock was communicable from the animal in water to persons in air through some substances. How far harpoons and nets, consisting of wood and hemp, could in like circumstances, as it has been frequently asserted, convey the effect, was not so particularly tried as to enable us to confirm it. I mention the omission in the hope that some one may be induced to determine the point by express trial. : We convinced ourselves on former occasions that the accurate Kaempfer*, who so well describes the effect of the torpedo, and happily compares it with lightning, was deceived in the circumstance that it could be avoided by holding in the breath, which we found no more to prevent the shock of the torpedo when he was disposed to give it, than it would prevent the shock of the Leyden phial. Several persons, forming as many distinct circuits, can be affected by one stroke of the animal, as well as when joined in a single circuit. For instance, four persons, touching separately his upper and lower surfaces, were all affected; two persons likewise, after the electricity had passed through a wire into a basin of water, transmitted it from thence, ifi two distinct channels, as their sensation convinced them, into another basin of water, from whence it was conducted, probably in a united state, by a single wire. How much further the effect might be thus divided and subdivided into different channels was not deter- mined ; but it was found to be proportionably weakened by multiply- f. ing these circuits, as it had been by extending the single circuit. Something may be expected to be said of the parts of the animal immediately concerned in producing the electrical effect. The en- graving which accompanies this letter, while it shows the general figure of the torpedo, gives an internal view of his electric organs. The Society will, besides, have a full anatomical description of these parts from the ingenious Mr. John Hunter, in a paper he has expressly written on the subject at my request. It would therefore be super- fluous for me to say anything either in regard to their situation or struc- I ture. I have to observe, however, that in these double organs resides the : electricity of the torpedo, the rest of his body appearing to be no other- ' wise concerned in his electrical effect than as conducting it: that they are subject to the will of the animal; but whether, like other double parts so controlable, they are exercised at times singly as well as in , concert, is difficult to be ascertained by experiment; that their upper I and under surfaces are capable, from a state of equilibrium with re- * Kaeinpf. Amoen. Exot. 1712, p, 514.