341 AND O£C0N0MY OF WHALES. In the porpoise there ar6 five cervical vertebrse, and one common to the neck and back, fourteen proper to the back, and thirty to the tail; making in the whole fifty-one The small bottle-nose whale, caught near Berkeley, in the number of cervical vertebrse resembled the porpoise : it had seventeen in the back, and thirty-seven in the tail; in all sixty^. In the porpoise four of the vertebrse of the neck are anchylosed ; and in every animal of this order which I have examined the atlas is by much the thickest, and seems to be made up of two joined together, for the second cervical nerve passes through a foramen in this vertebra. There is no articulation for rotatory motion between the first and second ver- tebrse of the neck. The small bottle-nose whale had eighteen ribs on each side, the por- poise sixteen'^, llie ends of the ribs that have two articulations, in the whole of this tribe, I believe, are articulated with the body of the vertebrse above (or before) and with the transverse processes below (or of the succeeding vertebra), by the angles; so that there is one verte- bra common to the neck and back. In the large whalebone whale the first rib is bifurcated, and consequently articulated to two vertebrse. The sternum is very flat in the piked whale, it is only one very short bone; and in the porpoise it is a good deal longer. In the small bottle-nose it is composed of three bones, and is of some length. In the piked whale the first rib, and in the porpoise the three first, are articulated with the sternum^. As a contraction, corresponding to the neck in quadrupeds, would have been improper in this order of animals, the vertebrse of the neck are thin, to make the distance between the head and shoulders as of ribs. Cuvier, in the second edition of his ‘ Lemons d’Anatomie Comparee,’ assigns sL\ty-five vertebrae to the BaUenoptera Boops, of which fourteen are dorsal. In the Balcena Mysticetus there are forty-eight vertebrae, viz. seven ceiwical, thirteen dorsal, and twenty-eight caudal.] “ [In the skeletons which we have examined there are seven cervical vertebrae, the six first being anchylosed, thirteen costal or dorsal, and forty-six lumbar and caudal, making in all sixty-sLx.] ^ [In the Delphinus Tursio there are seven cervical, the two first being anchylosed, thirteen dorsal or costal vertebrae, corresponding with the pairs of ribs, and forty-three to the taU, making in all sixty-three vertebrae.] ® [We have never found more than thirteen pairs of ribs in either the Delphinus Tursio, or Phoccena communis. In the Grampus there are seven cervical vertebrae, twelve costal, and forty-four lumbar and caudal; making in all sixty-three vertebrae. The Cachalot has sixty-one vertebrae, and fourteen pairs of ribs. The number of ribs in Balcenoptera rostrata is eleven pairs.] ^ [In our dissections we find five pairs of ribs articulated to the sternum in the por- poise. In the Hyperoodon there are also five pairs of sternal ribs. In the piked whale {Bal. rostrata) the floating extremities of the ten posterior pairs of ribs are attached to strong ligamentous decussating bands, which form a middle tendinous raphe, in the place of a sternum.]