CHOONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 249 I observed that the muscles, as moving powers in an animal, difler from the moving powers in a machine, the production of art, inasmuch as every part had its power adapted to the motion it is capable of, and therefore the motion of any one part did not depend entirely upon its own configuration and connexion with some other. Although this is in a great measure the truth, yet the motion in most parts is assisted by actions or the contrary in other parts, so that there is a kind of de- pendence and mutual assistance through the whole. This does not, however, arise from any mechanical construction, but from a connexion of the living principle in the powers of one part with those of another, which may be termed a species of intelligence. The motion of parts generally is the motion of a smaller upon a greater, and the greater becomes the fixed point upon which the smaller may be said to move; but we find that there are few motions, however trifling, but what affect the greater part; therefore that this motion in the smaller part m‘ay be more effectual and answer the intended pur- pose, the greater part is either thrown into a counter-motion by its own muscles, or it is supported in its place by them, or it is thrown into the same action with the small part, so as to increase it. Hence the actions of these powers may be said to be of two kinds, immediate and secondary. The first is that which produces the immediate action of the part; the second produces the assistant, supporting, regulating actions, &c. For instance, when a man walks, it at first might appear that the only thing necessary to produce the ultimate effect was the motion of the two legs, the body being first thrown sufficiently forwards, so as always to require that motion of the legs to support the centre of gravity. But this is not sufficient; it is necessary that the muscles of the trunk should act, and regulate the body so as to support the centre of gravity on all sides. . If the right leg moves, the muscles of the left side of the trunk act to support the whole on the left leg, and vice versd; so that the body plays upon the motion of the legs, by which means the legs have much less to do, and therefore can support it longer. In many of the actions of parts of the body other parts are kept im- moveable, although they would appear to have nothing to do with any such actions. A man never performs any considerable action, even with any of the extremities, without the trunk being more or less affected, so as to favour the motion of the extremity. We find that we first make a full inspiration and that all the muscles of respiration act, also the muscles of the glottis, and of the soft palate, so as to confine the