284 ON THE COLOUR OF THE PIGMENTUM OF THE EYE. to the light, they are liable to be affected by strong light to a greater degree than many others. If it is allowed as probable that in animals having the pigmentum di- versified the object to be viewed is thrown upon the lighter coloured portion, how does it happen that such are able to bear the light better than those who have the pigmentum altogether of a light colour.^ Perhaps it is not the illuminated object itself that is offensive to the re- tina, but that diffusion of light in the one kind of eye which does not happen in the other. Having stated the facts, and the general effect arising from the di- versified pigmentum, let us next consider the manner in which it is brought about, that such animals see better with little light than those which have the pigmentum wholly black. Let us then suppose the retina to be the organ of sight, and that by the ra}^s which fall upon it being properly refracted it gives or conveys to the mind an idea of a distinct object, corresponding with the sensation of touch. This is the most common and simple manner in which vision is performed, and is that mode which takes place where the 'pigmentum is black, or nearly so, and where the greatest quantity of external light is required. The retina, although somewhat opaque, is yet so transparent as to allow a considerable quantity of light to pass through it. For if this was not the case there could not be those differences in the appearance of the eye which I have been describing. The rays which pass through, we may suppose, do or do not give sensation in their passage; and we may also suppose that only those which strike against the retina are the cause of sensation : but this is not the present inquiry; the rays which pass through the retina are w^hat I am alone to consider, w'hich falling upon the pigmentum are there disposed of according to the reflecting powers of that substance. If the pigmentum is black the rays will then be absorbed, and entirely lost, therefore in such ejres vision can receive no assistance from it, and consequently a considerable quantity of light is required to produce distinct vision ; but in those w^ho have some part of this pigmentum white, we find that the rays of light which pass through the retina are reflected back again : and in*this case it is not unnatural to suppose that the reflected rays, in their passage back, will strike against the retina, and increase the power of vision. It is evident that a considerable portion passes forwards through the retina, which, I suspect, is partly lost on the inner surface of the lateral and forepart of the eye, where the pigmentum is black, while the remainder passing through the pupil is again thrown on the object looked at. The next thing to be considered is, w'hether the shape of the eye is such as wuli