QJ’ AIR-CELLS IN BIRDS. 179 kept firm in their proper situations, each receiving the air from their respective openings. There is no occasion to describe here all the bags, or their attachments, it being sufficient to have said that they extend over the whole abdomen. The lungs at the anterior part, contiguous to the sternum, have open- ings into certain membranous cells which lie upon the sides of the peri- cardium, and communicate with the cells of the sternum. At the su- perior part the lungs have a communication with the large cells of a loose network, through which the trachea, oesophagus, and great vessels pass as they are going to and from the heart. When these cells are distended with air, the size of that part where they lie is very consider- ably increased, and this enlargement is in general a mark of either the passion of anger or love. It is plainly seen in the turkey-cock, the pouting-pigeon, &c., and is very visible in the breast of a goose when she cackles. These cells communicate with others in the axilla, under the large pectoral muscle, and in some birds are still further extended. In the pelican, for instance, the skin of the whole body, even to the tip of the wing, is united to the part underneath by means of these cells, which are equally formed; and when the skin is removed, the two se- parated surfaces appear as if honeycombed. When the cells are dis- tended the skin is removed to a considerable distance, by which means the volume is proportionally increased*. In most birds, I believe in all that fly, these axillary cells communicate with the cavity of the os hu- meri, by means of small openings in the hollow surface near the head of that bone ; in some they are continued down the wing, communicating with the ulna and radius; in others they reach even as far as the pinions. The ostrich, however, is an exception. The posterior edge of the lungs (which lies on the sides of the spine, and projects backwards between the ribs,) communicates with the cells of the bodies of the vertebrae, with those of the ribs, the canal of the medulla spinalis, and the cells of the sacrum and other bones of the pelvis; from which parts the air finds a passage into the cavity of the thigh bone. This takes place in the greatest number of birds ; but in some the air is even continued part of the way down the thighs. This account agrees with what we generally find, though some birds have “ [Whilst inflating the air-cells of a gigantic crane {Ciconia Jrgala), in which bird they are continued along the wing, beneath the skin, as in the pelican, the wings be- came extended as the air-cells were filled. This phenomenon suggested to me a secon- dary use of the air-cells, which appears not to have been noticed, viz. to render me- chanical assistance to the muscles of the wings, both by keeping the wing extended during the long hovering flight peculiar to this bird, and also by compressing and bracing the muscles, as is done by the fasciae of the extremities in man.] n2