420 AN ACCOUNT OF THE GYMNOTUS ELECTRICUS. from which they come out in pairs between all the vertebrae of the spine*. In their passage from the spine they give nerves to the muscles of the back, &c. They bend forwards and outwards upon the spine, between it and the muscles, and send out small nerves to the external surface, whieh join the skin near to the lateral lines. These ramify upon the skin, but are principally bent forwards between it and the organ, into which they send small branches as they pass along. They seem to be lost in these two parts. The trunks get upon the air-bladder, or rather dip between it and the muscles of the back, and continuing their course forwards upon that bag, they dip in between it and the organ, where they divide into smaller branches ; then they get upon the middle par- tition, on w'hich they continue to divide into still smaller branches ; after which they pass on and get upon the small bones and muscles, which are the bases for the under fin, and at last they are lost on that fin. After having got between the organ and the above-mentioned parts they are constantly sending small nerves into the organs, first into the great organ and then into the small one; also into the muscles of the fin, and at last into the fin itself. These branches, whieh are sent into the organ as the trunk passes along, are so small that I could not trace their ramifications in the organs. In this fish, as well as in the torpedo, the nerves which supply the organ are much larger than those bestowed on any other part for the purposes of sensation and action ; but it appears to me that the organ of the torpedo is supplied with much the largest proportion. If all the nerves which go to it were United together they would make a vastly greater chord than all those which go to the organ of this eel. Perhaps when experiments have been made upon this fish, equally accurate with those made upon the torpedo, the reason for this difference may be assigned. Blood Vessels, How far this organ is vascular I cannot positively determine, but from the quantities of small arteries going to it I am inclined to believe that it is not deficient in vessels. The arteries arise from the large artery which passes down the spine ; they go off in small branches like the intercostals in the human subject, pass round the air-bladder, and get upon the partition together with the nerves, and distribute their branches in the same manner. The veins take the same course backwards, and enter the large vein which runs parallel with the artery^. * PI. EVIL fig. 4. s. * [A vivid and interesting account of the mode of capture of the gyinnotustandthc