339 AND CECONOMY OF WHALES. nor require much action of this part, in applying the food between the teeth for the purpose of mastication or deglutition, being nearly similar to fish in this respect as well as in their progressive motion. In some particulars they differ as much from one another as any two genera of quadrupeds I am acquainted with. The larynx, size of trachea, and number of ribs differ exceedingly. The caecum is only found in some of them. The teeth in some are wanting. The blow-holes are two in number in many, in others only one. The whalebone and spermaceti are peculiar to particular genera; all which constitute great variations. In other respects we find an uni- formity, which would appear to be independent of their living and moving only in the water, as in the stomach, liver, parts of generation of both sexes, and in the kidneys. In these last, however, I believe it depends in some degree upon their situation, although it is extended to other animals, the cause of which I do not understand. All animals have, I believe, a smell peculiar to themselves; how far this is connected with the other distinctions I do not know, our organs not being able to distinguish with sufficient accuracy. The smell of animals of this tribe is the same with that of the seal, but not so strong, a kind of sour smell, which the seal has while alive; the oil has the same smell with that of the salmon, herring, sprat, &c. The observations respecting the weight of the flesh of animals that swim, which I published in my Observations on the GEconomy of cer- tain parts of Animals^, are applicable to these also ; for the flesh in this tribe is rather heavier than beef: two portions of muscle of the same shape, one from the psoas muscle of the whale, the other of an ox, when weighed in air, were both exactly 502 grains; but weighed in water, the portion of the whale was four grains heavier than the other. It is probable, therefore, that the necessary equilibrium between the water and the animal is produced by the oil, in addition to wdiich the princi- pal action of the tail is such as tends either to raise them or to keep them suspended in the water, according to the degree of force with which it acts. From the tail being horizontal, the motion of the animal, when im- pelled by it, is up and down: two advantages are gained by this, it gives the necessary opportunity of breathing, and elevates them in the water; for every motion of the tail tends, as I said before, to raise the animal; and that this may be effected, the greatest motion of the tail is downwards, those muscles being very large, making two ridges in the abdomen; this motion of the tail raises the anterior extremity, which ' always tends to keep the body suspended in the water. ® [Pages 182, 272.] z 2