AN ACCOUNT OF THE GYMNOTUS ELECTllICUS 41 7 the semi-diameter of the body of the animal. They are of different lengths, some being as long as the whole organ. I shall describe them as beginning principally at the anterior end of the organ, although a few begin along the upper edge, and the whole, passing towards the tail, gradually terminate on the lower surface of the organ; the lower- most at their origin terminating soonest. Their breadths differ in dif- ferent parts of the organ. They are in general broadest near the ante- rior end, answering to the thickest part of the organ, and become gra- dually narrower towards the tail; however, they are very narrow at their beginnings or anterior ends. Those nearest to the muscles of the back are the broadest, owing to their curved or oblique situation upon these muscles, and grow gradually narrower towards the lower part, which is in a great measure owing to their becoming more trans- verse, and also to the organ becoming thinner at that place *. They have an outer and an inner edge ; the outer is attached to the skin of the animal, to the lateral muscles of the fin, and to the membrane which divides the great organ from the small, and the whole of their inner edges are fixed to the middle partition formerly described, also to the air-bladder, and three or four terminate on that surface which in- close the muscles of the back. These septa are at the greatest distance from one another at their exterior edges near the skin, to which they are united; and as they pass from the skin towards their inner attach- ments they approach one another. Sometimes we find two uniting into one. On that side next to the muscles of the back they are hollow from edge to edge, answering to the shape of those muscles, but become less and less so towards the middle of the organ, and from that towards the lower part of the organ they become curved in the other direction. At the anterior part of the large organ, where it is nearly of an equal breadth, they run pretty parallel to one another, and also pretty straight, but where the organ becomes narrow'er it may be observed in some places that two join or unite into one, especially where a nerve passes across. The termination of this organ at the tail is so very small that I could not determine whether it consisted of one septum or more. The distances between these septa will differ in fishes of different sizes. In a fish of two feet four inches in length I found them Vt distant from one another, and the breadth of the whole organ, at the broadest part, about an inch and a quarter, in which place were thirty-four septa. The small organ has the same kind of septa, in length passing from end to end of the organ, and in breadth passing quite across; they run somewhat serpentine, not exactly in straight * PI. LVII. fig. 1. 11., where the different breadths are seen in one view. VOL. IV. 2 E