214 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. one of these ceases, the power which remains is either not so strong originally as the whole power of the involuntary muscle which has only this principle of action, or not so strong, from want of habit, not having been always employed as a principle of action in them. It is not clear to me but that every muscle has a sphinctorial power of contraction so as to bring them to the middle state. This we may see in the temporal muscles ; for by opening the jaws the muscle sinks, and by leaving the jaw to itself, not acting with it in the least, the jaw rises and the muscle in part fills up, so that the jaw is suspended by the half action of the muscle; however, this power may be much more in some muscles than others. The great variety of causes of muscular motion make it almost inex- plicable : they may be said to be three,—the will, passions of the mind, and external stimuli. Those actions arising from the will and the mind appear to be most simple, because they are totally unintelligible; but those arising from external stimuli are either voluntary or involuntary, for a muscle that acts by the command of the will at one time is also capable of being thrown into action by a particular state of mind or external stimulus. Those actions which arise from the will have reason and habit for their continuance: they are such as arise out of imitation, reasoning, and all the powers collected by the senses. Those actions which arise from the mind belong mostly to the pas- sions, which affect more muscles of the body than the will; perhaps there is not a muscular fibre in the whole animal machine but is at dif- ferent times affected according to the different affections of the mind, every different state of mind having its particular muscles to stimulate. Upon many of these occasions reason is introduced, which is provided by this state of mind to call in the assistance of other muscles, to act according to that state, either to bring about an increased action which will destroy itself, or to prevent the increase and continuance of those actions. From extraneous stimuli arise all our internal insensible actions, and these depend upon the principle of simple life, upon which depends also the action of medicines ; and health is only the right action of such parts. Some muscles must be put upon the stretch, and they will continue their action far beyond the easy point, or that which w^as so before this action, as the stomach, intestines, and bladder. Others wait to be stretched, as the uterus; this, however, is not the cause of its contract- ing again, it is only putting it in a state to act when another cause takes place, as a miscarriage or foetus at the full time. This is nearly oppo- site to the other, for what endeavours to empty or relax the uterus be- comes the cause of its contraction, not what stretches it.