308 OF ABSORPTION BY VEINS. tica, became turgid; he did not, however, himself publish this obsers^ation, and it might never have seen the light, had not, in the meanwhile, the attention of the anatomical world been drawn to the lymphatic vessels by Bartholinus, an illustrious philosopher of Denmark, in 1651, and by Rudbeck, a Swede, and professor at Upsal, in 1652. In 1668, M. Louis de Bills appears to have traced lymphatic vessels from the ‘jugu- lar gianduls’ of a dog to the thoracic duct. See Phil. Trans., hi. (1668.) p. 791. But the lymphatic absorbents had never been distinguished as a system, either ana- tomically or physiologically, from the capillary vessels. 'Noquez, who of all anatomists before the Hunters, had dwelt more particularly on the lymphatics, and who was cited by some of the contemporaries of the Hunters as having anticipated them in this department of their anatomical labours, divided the lymphatics into four classes: one of these coiTesponded with the capillary blood- vessels of modern physiologists; a second, with the serous exhalent arteries; a third, to the veins con-esponding with these arteries, and to which Noquez gave the name of ‘ conduits absorbents,' until they became large enough to be sensible to the naked eye, and began to receive red blood. His fourth class of lymphatics includes the ab- sorbent vessels of the Hunters, and were described by Noquez as ending in the recep- taculum chyli, the thoracic duct, the vena cava, and the vena portarum. It is therefore obvious that the Hunterian doctrine of the absorbent system was in no way anticipated by Noquez, who appears to have been a mere compiler, undistin- guished by any original research, and whose anatomical treatise was professedly an improvement upon Keill’s. With respect to the extension of our knowledge of the condition of the lymphatic system in the human subject, it appears that Mr. Hunter greatly contributed to this important branch of anatomy. Dr. Hunter describes one of his preparations, which showed the lymphatic vessels extending from the ham upwards to the thoracic duct, as well as the inguinal and lumbar glands, and the larger lacteals at the root of the mesentery, the receptaculura chyli, or what is so called, all finely filled with mercury. He acknowledges his brother’s discovery in 1753 or 1754, that the lymphatic glands, and the lymphatic vessels going from them, could be filled uniformly by pushing a pipe into their substance; and states it to have been Mr. Hunter’s intention to have traced the lymphatic vessels all over the body, and to have given a complete description and figure of the whole absorbing system. This work w'as unfortunately arrested by a very indifferent state of health, the effect of too much application to anatomy, which obliged Mr. Hunter to be much in the country. It was afterwards, as is well known, ably accomplished by another ornament of the Hunterian school, the celebrated Cruik- shank. When the question of the office of the lymphatics first began to be agitated, one of the arguments against their being the exclusive agents of the absorbing processes was founded on their supposed absence in the oviparous vertebrata^. The discovery of this system of vessels in birds formed, therefore, no unimportant support to the views of Dr. William Hunter, and to this discovery Mr. Hunter is justly entitled. Mr. Hew- son, who first published on the lymphatics of birds, and who discovered their lacteal absorbents, acknoMdedges that “ it is but doing justice to the ingenious Mr. John Hunter to mention here that these lymphatics in the necks of fowls were first discovered by him many years ago.” (Phil. Trans., 1768, p. 220.) And it appears from Dr. Monro’s * [“ Lacteal vessels have not as yet been certainly observed in birds, or in the more common fishes, nor in general in the animals called oviparous; and, from a consider- able number of experiments I have made, I am convinced they want the lymphatics as well as the lacteal vessels.”—Monro, Observations Anatomical and Physiological, 8vo. Edinb., p. 57. 1758,]