PREFACE. vm With respect to the rarer and less known invertebrate ani- mals, Hunter was not content with merely recording their structure, and displaying its leading peculiarities in prepara- tions ; but he caused most elaborate and accurate drawings to be made from the recent dissections ; for which purpose he re- tained in his family many years an accomplished draughtsman, Mr. William Bell, better known as the author of two papers in the Philosophical Transactions, descriptive of the Sumatran Rhinoceros and the Ecan Bonna [Platax arthriticuSi Cuv.). Several examples of these beautiful designs have already been published by the Council of the Royal College of Surgeons in the illustrated catalogue of the Hunterian Museum : they re- late to the anatomy of the Sepia and Solen, of the Ascidia and Salpa ; they illustrate the circulation of the blood in the Crus- tacea and Anellida; and the figure which Mr. Hunter has given of the circulation in the Chloeia capillata, a red-blooded worm, far surpasses in beauty and detail any of those with which Cuvier illustrates the ^nemoir* dedicated to w^hat he regarded to his latest breath as one of his most interesting discoveries. Hunter had also minutely investigated the anatomy of the cirripedsf; but of his dissections of these, as of many other animals, it is to be lamented that the preparations and draw- ings are now the sole evidences. The illustrations of the ana- tomy of the Echinodermata, both of the spiny species and of the unarmed Holothuria, have never been surpassed either as to minuteness or accuracy ; and, excepting the disputed ar- ticle of the nervous system, little is added in the elaborate and well-known monograph of Tiedemann, to the anatomy of the Holothuria as it is displayed by Hunter J. Now the anatomical labours of Daubenton were confined to that class of animals whose structure most nearly resembles man ; he describes the position and length and breadth and number of parts with most praiseworthy zoological precision, but never appears to raise his thoughts to the relations of the structures he detected with the habits of the species, or their adaptation to function. Hence he has been said to have made * Bulletin de la Soc. Philomath., 1791, p. 146. f Sen Physiological Catalogue of the Plunterian Collection, vol. i. p. 255, pi. IV. I Ibid., p. 251, pi. III.