396 ANATOMICAL DESCRIPTION OF THE but in a sulcus of the liver, and opens into a bag similar to the pericar- dium ; this bag surrounds the heart and aorta, as the pericardium does in other animals ; from this there is an opening into a vein which lies above, and upon the left of the auricle, which vein seems to receive the blood from the lungs, gills, and head, is analogous to the superior vena cava, and opens into the auricle, which is upon the left of the ventricle. The aorta goes out, passing for a little way in a loose spiral turn, then becomes straight, where it seems to be muscular; at this part the branches go off, between which there is a rising within the area of the aorta like a bird’s tongue, with its tip turned towards the heart*. The liver is principally one lobe, pretty close to the heart at the fore part, and passes back on the right of the stomach and intestines; at its anterior extremity on the left side there is a very short lobe, ending abruptly. The gall-bladder lies in a fissure on the left side of the liver near its middle ; there is no hepatic duct; the hepato-cystic ducts, which seem to be three in number, enter the gall-bladder at its anterior end or fundus, and the cystic duct passes out from the posterior end of the gall-bladder, and terminates in the gut, about half an inch from the pylorus. The oesophagus, which is pretty large, passes back, and is continued into the stomach in the same line. The stomach at * This account of the venae cavae opening into the cavity of the pericardium may appear incredible; and it might be supposed that, in the natural state of the parts, there is a canal of communication going from one cava to the other, which being broken or nipped through, in the act of catching or killing the animal, would give the appearance above described. I can only say that the appearances were what have been described in three different subjects which I have dissected; and in all of them the pericardium was full of coagulated blood. But besides the smallness of the sub- jects, it may be observed that they had been long preserved in spirits, which made them more unfit for anatomical inquiries. They had been in my possession above seven years*. * [There is no preparation in the Hunterian Collection demonstrative of the struc- ture described in the text, and it was in the dissections of the siren, instituted with the view to reconcile or account for Hunter’s description of the heart, that I was led to the discovery of the two distinct auricles in that animal. {Trans. Zool. Soc. vol. i. p. 213, April, 1834.) The inferior vena cava terminates at the lower part of a large mem- branous sinus, which also receives the blood from the two superior cavae by two sepa- rate orifices. The common trunk of the pulmonary veins seems also to end in this sinus, but it merely traverses without communicating with it, and finally opens into a distinct transverse auricular chamber, which is not separated externally from the apparently single and capacious auricle of the venae cavae, which is characterized by numerous elongated fimbriated processes. The glistening fibrous coat of the pericar- dium closely adheres to the surrounding muscles as in fish, so that the absence of any detached bag surrounding the heart, the magnitude of the auricle, and the peculiar passage of the pulmonary veins through the great sinus of the venae cavae may have contributed to mislead Mr. Hunter as to the real stimcture of the part.]