OF ABSORPTION BY VEINS. 313 of an exhausted cupping-glass, or by the direct pressure or ligature of the vein, or a general impediment to the circulation by a plethoric or artificial distension of vessels, will proportionately retard the deadly operations of the poison. M. Majendie has also shown that the rapidity of its action is increased by artificially diminishing the quantity of circulating fluids, and this observation is of great value in a practical point of view; but much is still wanting to sustain his conclusion that the ordinary and na- tural absorbent processes are arrested by a plethoric or distended state of the vessels, and vice versa. The experiments by which M. Majendie endeavours to support the theory of non-vital imbibition or capillary attraction as the immediate cause of absorption are these:—A saturated solution of nux vomica applied to the denuded vein of a living animal passes through the coats of that vein into the circulation and kills. The poison takes a longer time to soak through the coats of an artery; but having done so produces the same deadly effect, {loc. cit., pp. 279, 280.) The nux vomica had certainly affected the system by transuding through the coats of the vessels, for its bitter taste could be de- tected in the blood which adhered to the inside of the coat of the paralyzed vessels. Dead vessels and animal membranes exhibited the same permeability as those which M. Majendie imagines to have retained their vital properties unchanged after four or ten minutes' contact with the narcotic extract. Ink injected ijito the serous cavities of the body of a living animal stains the lining membrane and contiguous parts, (p. 282.) From these experiments the author concludes, “ II me parait done hors de doute que tons les vaisseaux sanguins, arteriels et veineux, morts ou vivans, gros ou petits, presentent, dans leurs parois, une propriete physique propre a rendre parfaitement raison des principaux phenomenes de I’absorption."—Ibid. To be consistent in this application of the theory of physical imbibition to the actions of organized bodies, we ought to conclude from observing the senun transuded after death into the pericardium, that such was the condition in the living state of the parts; and a physiologist could no longer infer from the different appearance of the parts in the immediate proximity of the gall-bladder, when examined in a living and dead animal, that the condition of the coats of that receptacle as to permeability must be influenced by the two states; and that the hving tissue resists the percolation which the dead membrane readily allows. M. Majendie is, in fact, compelled by his theory to deny such difference; “ the bile,” says he, “ does transude through the coats of the living gall- bladder, but the sanguineous current which exists in the small vessels which form in great measure those parietes, carries it off in proportion as it transudes.” Yet the same currents in the serous membranes, which at p. 258 he admits are more abundant in vessels than the mucous, have no such effect in preventing the passage of the ink, &c. But it is evident that he is himself not satisfied with his explanation, for in an ac- count of one of the Hunterian experhnents, in which means were adopted to ascertain whether water injected into the intestine of a living animal v^rould be absorbed by the vein, M. Majendie observes that the vital action of the vein might be interrupted by the ligature of its corresponding artery. Now this objection ought to have no weight if, as he supposes, the veins absorb by a property of simple inorganic imbibition with which their coats ai-e endowed. But laying aside for a moment the consideration of ex- periments, in all of which the vital operations are more or less interrupted, and the parts in question forced into unnatural conditions, let us attentively consider those phaeno- mena of absorption which Nature plainly puts before oin eyes. The chyle is known to contain globules of a definite size and form. It is admitted by M. Majendie that this fluid is exclusively taken up by the lacteal absorbents. The escape of the lacteal glo- bules from the intestine could not be accounted for on the theory of imbibition or per- meability of tissue; organic pores must be supposed to exist of a size adequate to their transmission. These pores have been described by Cniikshank as they were seen by