86 OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. ruminating animals, which substances were not digested, but appeared as if macerated. Let us enumerate the experiments and facts made out by Reaumur. The gizzard was not hurt by acting upon glass, which it ground to a powder. The stomach or gizzard had hardly any visible motion. I’he force of the gizzard was ascertained. The size of the stones found in the gizzard was in proportion to the size of the bird. The stomach of a buzzard digested bone, from which he concluded the gastric juice had a solvent power; but it did not digest bread, al- though it acted in a slight degree on fruit. He made experiments with the gastric juice. The juice in the ruminating animals’ stomachs produced no effect on hay or grass when inclosed in tubes. Reaumur’s experiments, although not complete, paved the way for future investigation ; and Spallanzani, proceeding on the same .ground, has not only confirmed them by his own, but has established several points not completely made out by Reaumur; for in some instances Reaumur gave up the point too soon, especially in the experiments re- specting the buzzard’s power of digesting vegetables. Reaumur not possessing general knowledge sufficient to direct him in his pursuits, was necessarily confined to what he was most master of, the mere making experiments. Being neither an anatomist nor a physiologist, he has not been perfectly just in his description of parts, having con- sidered the crop and the oesophagus leading from it to the gizzard as two distinct stomachs ; but this, however, is only to be set down as a piece of anatomical ignorance, not affecting the subject in the least. Spallanzani is also deficient in his anatomical knowledge ; yet it must be owned that his experiments, as far as they go, are in themselves conclusive; but like all mere experiment-makers, he is not satisfied even with those which are clear and decisive, but multiplies them most un- necessarily, without varying them to elucidate other and essential parts of the same subject. I think we may set it down as an axiom, that experiments should not be often repeated which tend merely to esta- blish a principle already known and admitted; but that the next step should be, the application of that principle to useful purposes. If Spal- lanzani had employed half his time in this way, and had considered di- gestion under all the various states of the body and stomach, with all the varieties of food, both natural and artificial, he had employed his time much better than in making experiments without end. The food of animals in general being composed either of vegetables.