486 DESCRIPTIONS OF SOME ANIMALS respecting the situation of the teeth, it would class in some degree with the Scalpris dentata^, in a fainter degree with the horse and rumi- nants ; and with regard to the line of direction of all the teeth, they are very like those of the Scalpris dentata. The fore teeth in the upper jaw agree with the hog, and those in the lower, in number, with the Scalpris dentata, but with regard to position, and probably use, with the hog. The grinders would seem to be a mixture of hog and ruminant, the ena- mel on their external and grinding surfaces rather formed into several cutting edges than points. There are six incisors in the upper jaw and only two in the lower, but these two are so placed as to oppose those of the upper ; five grinders in each side of each jaw, the most anterior of which is small The proportions of some of the parts of this animal bear no analogy to wdiat is common in most others. The disproportions in the length between the fore legs and the hind are very considerable, also in their strength, yet perhaps not more than in the jerboa. This disproportion between the fore legs and the hind is principally in the more adult; for in the very young, about the size of a half-grown rat, they are pretty well proportioned; which shows that at the early period of life they do not use progressive motion‘d. The proportions of the different parts “ [This tribe includes the rat, &c. (it corresponds to the order Glires of Linnaeus and the Rodentia of Cuvier).] ^ [Hunter appears to have taken this description from a skull in which the first de- ciduous molar was still retained. The total number of molares which are developed in the jaws of a kangaroo are seven on each side of each jaw; the greatest number in use at any given time is four on each side of each jaw ; a posterior or fifth molar may he visible above the socket in the di'y skull, but it does not cut the gum for use till the anterior one is pushed out. The succession of the molares is from behind forwards in both jaws. The first decidu- ous molar, upper jaw, resembles the first permanent false molar in the potoroo; it is elongated, compressed, and traversed by a longitudinal sharp middle ridge, at the inter- nal base of which are three small tubercles. It is for cutting rather than bruising. The corresponding tooth, lower jaw, is similar in form, hut smaller, and has one tubercle in the posterior part of the inner side of the base. In some species of kangaroo, as the Ma- crojms eleyans, the false molar is permanent, but its earlier loss in Macr. major does not warrant a generic distinction. The second deciduous molar has the form of the ordinary grinders, but is smaller; it is shed before the first. The third is similar, but somewhat larger; and so also of the fourth : this grinder is much worn in old skulls, and in tlie 4 4 lower jaw is lost, leaving then only molares in aged individuals. The fifth, sixth, and seventh follow each other from behind forwards, and are of equal size. Before the fourth grinder is in place the permanent incisores are gained; these closely resemble their predecessors, but are somewhat larger. In the Macropus major the exterior incisor upper jaw presents two inflected folds of enamel; these are want- ing in the corresponding teeth of the smaller species, which retain the spurious molares.] [At a still earlier period the fore legs, following the usual law of development, ex- ceed the hind legs in length.]