238 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. generally used in raising the body; but as the body becomes more and more bent it requires less power to overcome the power of gravity in the body, therefore the angle of insertion is becoming more and more in the same plane with the moving part. The same thing takes place in moving the heel. The angle of insertion can only have its effects vary when the inser- tion is some way from the centre of motion, and this only when in levers. When in levers of the first kind (which extend joints) the effect is gradually becoming less; as, for instance, the extensors of the forearm, which are inserted into the olecranon, because the angle is becoming less and less; but perhaps the velocity which the parts may commonly acquire may make up this loss. When inserted into levers of the se- cond kind they are gaining in their effect, the angle becoming greater, as in the flexors of the forearm. In the lever of the first kind the quantity of effect, according to the quantity of contraction, is becoming more and more as the angle be- comes less. In the second it is becoming less and less as the angle becomes greater. Muscles going over more Joints than one. Many muscles, or their tendons, go over two joints w^hile they only move one, and the joint which they do not move is often moving in a contrary direction, from the action of another muscle; this happens in the biceps flexor and extensor of the forearm, the flexors of the leg, &c. This disposition saves a great deal of muscular contraction; for by the biceps going over two joints while it is employed in bending the fore- arm upon the arm, the arm is bending back upon the scapula, which last action would jJroduce in some degree a flexion of the forearm, even if the biceps flexor did not contract at all, but only remained without relaxing. This arises from the motion of these joints going zigzag to one another. Muscles w^hose tendons pass over two joints keep the joint not to he moved, firm; which is of great service, as when we bend the forearm by the biceps flexor, the two heads rising from the scapula, especially the long head which runs through the joint, keeps the joint of the shoulder firm. In this motion there are muscles acting on both sides of the joint. Had it not been for this purpose, the biceps flexor might as well have arisen from the head of the os humeri. Muscles often go over two, three, or four joints, and only move the third and fourth, as the flexors of the last joints of the fingers; but to prevent the first and second joints being moved by this action, the ex-