353 AND CECONOMY OF WHALES. VOL.IV. 2 A The teeth are not divisible into different classes, as in quadrupeds; but are all pointed teeth, and are commonly a good deal similar. Each tooth is a double cone, one point being fastened in the gum, the other projecting: they are, however, not all exactly of this shape. In some species of porpoise the fang is flattened, and thin at its extremity ; in the spermaceti whale the body of the tooth is a little curved towards the back part of the mouth; this is also the case in some others. The teeth are composed of animal substance and earth, similar to the bony part of the teeth in quadrupeds. The upper teeth are commonly worn down upon the inside, the lower on the outside ; this arises from the upper jaw being in general the largest. The situation of the teeth, when first formed, and their progress afterwards, as far as I have been able to observe, is very different in common from those of the quadruped. In the quadruped the teeth are formed in the jaw, almost surrounded by the alveoli, or sockets, and rise in the jaw as they increase in length; the covering of the alveoli being absorbed, the alveoli afterwards rise with the teeth; covering the whole fang; but in this tribe the teeth appear to form in the gum“, upon the edge of the jaw, and they either sink in the jaw as they lengthen, or the alveoli rise to inclose them; this last is most probable, since the depth of the jaw is also increased, so that the teeth appear to sink deeper and deeper in the jaw. This formation is readily discover- ed in jaws not full grown ; for the teeth increase in number as the jaw lengthens, as in other animals. The posterior part of the jaw becoming longer, the number of teeth in that part increases, the sockets becoming shallower and shallower, and at last being only a slight depression. ® [In the young porpesse the capsules and pulps of the teeth are always originally imbedded in the substance of the gum, where the first development of the tooth com- mences, by the formation of the crown. In this structure we see the analogy to the growth of w^halebone, in which the base of the baleen-plates adhere throughout life to the gum only. A superficial or less scrupulous observer might have been led to de- scribe the development of the teeth of the Cetacea according to the ordinary analogies ; but what are we to think of that writer who takes the opportunity to correct (!) Hun- ter’s original and just description of this point, by informing his readers that the germs of the teeth are developed in an alveolar caAUty in other mammalia ? and who, in re- ference to the hypotheses suggested by Hunter to account for the lodgment of the teeth of the Cetacea in sockets, quotes only the first, for the purpose of contradicting it, asserting that the ‘ cavity for the reception of the young teeth cannot be formed by the sinking of the teeth in it,’ but avoids all mention of the second hypothesis, which Hunter states to be the most probable of the two, and which is the true one ? (See Knox, in the Edinburgh Philosophical Transactions, vol. xi. p. 411.) Rapp, however, seems to adopt the first view; he says, the fangs of the teeth grow by degrees into the groove of the jaw: “ Nach und nach wachst dann die Wurzel in die Rinne des Kiefers hinein.” {Cetaceen, p. 127.)]