THE USE OF THE OBLIQUE MUSCLES. •274 THE USE OF THE OBLIQUE MUSCLES. Muscles are the active parts in an animal body, producing different effects, according to the circumstances in which they are placed; and the greater number of parts requiring a variety of motions, it became necessary to have a variety of muscles suited to such motions. The function of a muscle depends on the contraction of its fibres; and the most general effect produced by this contraction is to move some one part of the body upon another. But we may observe, that when mo- tion in a part is performed by one set of muscles, there are other muscles employed in regulating that motion, as in most joints ; and in a whole part, destined to a variety of motions, and composed of smaller parts, intended likewise to have their distinct motions, we find muscles appro- priated for the purpose of keeping some of those parts fixed in a parti- cular position, while the whole part is to be moved by other muscles, according to the nature of the action to be performed. This will, per- haps, be best illustrated by attending to what takes place in the eye, considering it as part of the head. The eye being an organ of sense, which is to receive impressions from without, it was necessary it should be able to give its motions that kind of direction as would permit its being impressed by objects whether at rest or in motion, or moving from object to object; and it was also ne- cessary that there should be a power capable of keeping the eye fixed upon an object when our body or head was in motion. For the better understanding this actibn of pointing the eye towards objects under the various circumstances of vision, it will be necessary to mention that the eye is furnished with muscles, some of which, in the quadruped, bird, amphibia, and fishes, are called straight, from their being placed in the direction of or parallel to the axis of the eye; and two, I believe, have always been named oblique. Of the straight, some animals haye more than others. There are four straight muscles com- mon to most animals; and those which have more have the additional muscles inserted immediately in the eye-ball on its posterior surface, and surrounding the optic nerve. The four straight muscles, which are common to all quadrupeds, pass further forwards, and are rather inserted towards the anterior surface of the eye. For vision at large it was not only necessary that the eye should he