414 AN ACCOUNT OF THE GYMNOTUS ELECTRICUS. AN ACCOUNT OF THE GYMNOTUS ELECTRICUS\ By John Hunter, F.R.S. To Mr. Walsh, the first discoverer of animal electricity, the learned will be indebted for whatever the following pages may contain, either curious or useful. The specimen of the animal which they describe was procured by that gentleman, and at his request this dissection was performed and this account of it is communicated. This fish on the first view appears very much like an eel, from which resemblance it has most probably got its name; but it has none of the specific properties of that fish. This animal may be considered, both anatomically and physiologically, as divided into two parts, viz. the common animal part, and a part which is superadded, viz. the peculiar organ. I shall at present consider it only with respect to the last, as the first explains nothing relating to the other, nor any thing relating to the animal oeconomy of fish in general. The first, or common ani- mal part, is so contrived as to exceed what w^as necessary for itself, in order to give situation, nourishment, and most probably the peculiar property to the second. The last part, or peculiar organ, has an im- mediate connexion with the first, the body affording it a situation, the heart nourishment, and the brain nerves, and probably its peculiar powers. For the first of these purposes the body is extended out in length, being much longer than would be sufficient for what may be called its progressive motion. For the real body, or that part where the viscera and parts of generation lie, is situated, with respect to the head, as in other fish, and is extremely short, so that, according to the ordinary proportions, this should be a very short fish. Its great length, therefore, seems chiefly intended to afford a surface for the support of the peculiar organ; however, the tail part is likewise adapted to the progressive motion of the whole and to preserve the specific gravity; for the spine, medulla spinalis, muscles, fin, and air-bladder^ are con- tinued through its whole length. Besides which parts there is a mem- ® [This paper was read before the Royal Society May 11, 1775, and published in the 65th volume of the Philosophical Transactions.] ^ [The Gymnotm electricus has two air-bladders, one of wliich, of an oval form and bilobed, is situated at the anterior part of the abdomen, beneath the oesophagus; the other is the elongated sac described by Hunter, and extended through the posterior part of the body. In another species, the Gymnotus a;qnilabiatus of Humboldt, the posterior elongated air-bladder is wanting.]