CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 253 “ These two modes of information are next applied in the examina- tion of blood-vessels, which, our author previously observes, seldom bear any visible marks of muscular construction, and scarce ever admit of examination from their effects in the living body, on which account the second mode of information must be adopted as the likeliest to fur- nish some lights in this inquiry. He made a set of experiments on the blood-vessels of a dead horse, which were taken out so carefully as not to affect in the least either their texture or degree of contraction. They were examined both in their natural state and after they had been opened, and stretched different ways, by which means the different ac- tions of the muscular and of the elastic powers become easily discern- ible. The following are the principal facts that resulted from this ex- amination : “ Every part of the vascular system is not equally endowed with muscles ; the larger vessels, especially the arteries, being chiefly com- posed of elastic substances, whilst many parts of the smaller, or what are called the capillary vessels, appear to be almost entirely muscular. “ 111 the middle-sized arteries two substances are visible to the eye, that towards the inner coat being evidently darker in colour, and of a structure somewhat different from the outward. The relative thickness of these coats differs as we recede from the heart, the interior becoming considerably thicker in proportion to the exterior; whence it evidently follows that the external diameter of the duct is not to be inferred from its external thickness, this being always proportionably greater as the vessel diminishes in size. Both these coats are in some measure elastic, but the external is more so than the internal; whence it may be judged that it is the internal that is endowed with muscular properties. This indeed is confirmed by a variety of experiments, in which it was found that the inner surface after death was considerably more contracted than the outward, the latter being thrown into longitudinal corruga- tions, which could only be the effect of the greater transverse or circu- lar contraction of the latter. “ It has further been observed that this muscular contraction is chiefly in the transverse direction, and seldom if ever longitudinal. The physiological application of these faets, especially to arteries, is briefly this. The museular contraction being chiefly circular, and tending to lessen the diameter of the vessel, the animal (economy would suffer greatly if in the larger arteries, where this contraction is greater in proportion as its diameter increases, some power did not counteract this tendency so as to maintain a middle state or equilibrium. Thus also when muscular parts are too much distended, which in large arte- ries will often happen on account of their vicinity to the heart, a simi-