OF AIR-CELLS IN BIRDS. 184 similarity between birds and that class of animals called amphibia; and although a bird and a snake are not the same in the construction of the respiratory organs, yet the circumstance of the air passing in both beyond the lungs, into the cavity of the abdomen, naturally leads us to suppose that a structure so similar is designed in each to answer a similar purpose. This analogy is still further supported by the lungs in both consisting of large cells Now in amphibious animals the use of such a conformation of the lungs is evident, as it is in consequence of this structure that they require to breathe less frequently than others; and in this respect it may in birds have some connexion with flying, as that motion might easily be imagined to render frequency of respi- ration inconvenient, and a reservoir of air would therefore become sin- gularly useful. Although we are not to consider this structure in birds to be an extension of lungs, yet 1 can easily conceive this accumulation of air to be of great use in respiration. For it was observed before re- specting the amphibia, that the air in its passage to and from these cells must certainly have a considerable effect upon the blood in the lungs, by allowing a much greater quantity of air to pass in a given time than if there was no such construction of parts* ; and this opinion will not appear to be ill founded, if we consider that both in the bird and the vi])er the surface of the lungs is small in comparison to what it is in to keep the parts distended ? Is it upon the outlets from the lungs, or is it at the glottis, as in the quadruped? For we may observe that when an animal is using considerable exercise, it never either expands the lungs, nor makes a full expiration, giving the ribs and diaphragm as little extent of motion as possible, so that the body may be kept firm, which obliges it to breathe oftener; and as this quantity of air is not sufficient for the accelerated motion of the blood, the animal gets what is called out of breath, which is no more than the two not being proportioned; and when it rests, it breathes as quick and takes as long strokes as possible, to make up the loss. So that in exercise we pro- bably breathe less air. * It may, perhaps, occur to some, that the whole of these communicating cells are to be considered as extended lungs; but I can hardly think that any air which gets beyond the vesiculated lungs themselves is capable of affecting the blood of the animal, as the other cavities into which it enters, whether of the soft parts or of the bones, appear to be very little vascular. * [The air-cells are smaller, and much more numerous in the lungs of birds than in the corresponding anterior or true respiratory portion of the lungs of reptiles. The analogy which Hunter here mentions, as also that between the abdominal air-recepta- cles of birds and the air-bladders of fishes, to which he previously alludes, had not escaped the observation of Mervey, who says, “Quin etiam (quod tamen a nemine hactenus observatum memini) avium bronchia, sive asperse arterise fines, in abdomen perforantur, aeremque inspiratum intra cavitates illarum membranarum recondunt. Quernadmodum pisces, et serpentes intra amplas vesicas in abdomine positas eundem. attiahunt el reservant; eo<pie facilius natarc existimantur.”—De Geneiatione Jniuia- Uu))i, Ex. 111.]