418 AN ACCOUNT OF THE GYMNOTUS ELECTRICUS. lines *. Their outer edges terminate on the outer surface of the organ, which is in contact with the inner surface of the external muscle of the fin, and their inner edges are in contact with the centre muscles. They differ very much in breadth from one another, the broadest being equal to one side of the triangle, and the narrowest scarcely broader than the point or edge. They are pretty nearly at equal distances from one another, but much nearer than those of the large organ, being only about 3-V part of an inch asunder; but they are at a greater distance from one another towards the tail, in proportion to the increase of breadth of the organ. The organ is about half an inch in breadth, and has fourteen septa. These septa, in both organs, are very tender in consistence, being easily torn. They appear to answer the same pur- pose with the columns in the torpedo, making walls or hutments for the subdivisions, and are to be considered as making so many distinct or- gans. These septa are intersected transversely by very thin plates or membranes, whose breadth is the distance between any two septa, and therefore of different breadths in different parts, broadest at that edge which is next to the skin, narrowest at that next to the centre of the body, or to the middle partition which divides the two organs from one another. Their lengths are equal to the breadths of the septa, between which they are situated. There is a regular series of them continued from one end of any two septa to the other. They appear to be so close as even to touch. In an inch in length there are about two hun- dred and forty, which multiplies the surface in the whole to a vast ex- tent. Of the Nei'ves, The nerves in this animal may be divided into two kinds, the first appropriated to the general purposes of life, the second for the manage- ment of this peculiar function, and very probably for its existence. They arise in general from the brain and medulla spinalis, as in other fish, but those from the medulla are much larger than in fish of equal size, and larger than is necessary for the common operations of life. The nerve which arises from the brain and passes down the whole length of the animal (which I believe exists in all fish) is larger in this than in others of the same size, and passes nearer to the spine f* In the common eel it runs in the muscles of the back, about midway between the skin and spine. f.n the cod it passes immediately under the skin. From its being larger in this fish than in others of the same size one might suspect that it was intended for supplying the organ in * PI. LVI. K L t hi- hVII. fig. 4. T.