55 DESCRIPTION OF THE UTERUS, ETC. THE CASE OF A YOUNG WOMAN WHO POISONED HER- SELF IN THE FIRST MONTH OF HER PREGNANCY: BY THOMAS OGLE, SURGEON, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY. To which is added, an Account of the Appearances after Death ; hy the late John Hunter^, Mary hunt, servant to a gentleman in Charlotte-street, Bedford- square, twenty-five years of age, had for some time shown a partiality for one of the footmen in the same family. She became all at once exceedingly dejected, which was supposed to proceed from his neglect- ing her; and on Thursday, the 19th of April, at twelve o’clock at night, ' took half an ounce of white arsenic, and immediately afterwards drank a quart of wine ; about one o’clock she had so much pain in her stomach as to be obliged to call for assistance. The symptoms were excruciating pain in the stomach, sickness, vo- miting, excessive thirst, and a small tremulous pulse ; these were fol- lowed by pain in the bowels, and several purging stools. She drank brandy and water, wine and water, and several quarts of plain water, to relieve the thirst and ease the pain. Some hours after taking the arsenic she became easier, expressed a desire to be left alone, being inclined to sleep, and remained several hours in a dosing or coma- tose state, from which she did not recover, and died about one o’clock on Friday, thirteen hours after taking the arsenic. Upon inspecting the body after death there were found the following appearances. In the ca^’ity of the abdomen there was an appearance of the eflfects of slight inflammation on the peritoneal coat of the small intestines. The stomach contained a greenish fluid, with a curdy substance in it, in all amounting to about twelve ounces. On the internal surface of the great curvature near the cardia a por- tion of the villous coat, about the size of a crown-piece, was partly de- stroyed, and of a dark red colour, with a regularly defined edge, and some of the arsenic adhering to different parts of its surface. The rest of the stomach was in a natural state. This appearance in the stomach was an effect produced by the arsenic. * [Originally published in the Transactions of a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge, vol. ii. p. 03. Communicated to the Society by Everard Home, and read August ">, 1791.]