393 ON THE ANATOMY OF THE JERBOA. NOTES ON THE ANATOMY OF THE JERBOA, {Dipus Sagitta, Gm.) {Extracted from the Appendix to Russel's History of Aleppo, where they are thus in- troduced.) " Having met with nothing more on the internal structure of the jerboa than what is given by Gmelin from M. Buffon {Hist. Nat. tom. xiii.), I applied to my worthy friend Mr. John Hunter, who very obligingly favoured me with the following circumstances from his Ad- versaria by way of supplement. He was not certain whether the animal he dissected was from Asia or Africa.” .... The meatus auditorius was large like that of a bird. The tym- panum was also large^. There are two venae cavse superiores. The caecum was four inches in length; it makes a close turn upon itself, and gradually diminishing in size, terminates in an obtuse point. The colon, which is large at its beginning, passes first upwards upon the right side, and before crossing the abdomen on the left, makes a little fold upon itself; it then crosses the spine, and making another fold shorter than the former, it passes the left side and commences rectum. The lower part of the abdomen lies upon the anterior part of the pubes, and the bend of the penis is seen within the cavity of the abdomen, making a little projection, as it were, between the origin of the two musculi recti. The penis in a flaccid state lies reverted upon itself, but when in erection has a bone on each side of the part project- ing, in the same manner as in a guinea-pig. The prepuce is furnished with a number of glands which secrete a thick mucus. The testicles are situated on each side of the symphysis, and can occasionally lie in the rings of the abdominal muscles, which are very large, but can never descend much further, there being no scrotum for their reception. The vesiculae seminales are two long bags, which make a turn upon them- selves. The anus is bent downwards towards the parts of generation^. ^ [See the preparation No. 1599 Physiological Series, Hunterian Museum, which is most probably the part here described, and if so, proves the description to be of the Dipus Sagitta.'\ ** [These short and simple notes are interesting as an example of the matter com- posing the lost “ Adversaria," or manuscript notes of Hunter. The comparison which he makes with reference to the structure of the ear-passage shows that he was alive to those interesting points of structure which are indicative of the natural affinities of different groups of animals. The jerboa not only resembles the bird in the large size of the meatus auditorius, but also (together with the whole order of Rodentia) in the un-anchylosed state of the tympanum with the other elements of the temporal bone. In the affinity to the oviparous vertebrata manifested in the two superior cavae the genus Dipus agrees with the following rodent genera: Alactaga, Helamys, Echimys, Hystrix, Sciurus, Pteromys, Orycteropus, Bathyergus, Lepus, and Coelogenys. I have also shown that the same structure characterizes the marsupial animals. See Pro- ceedings of the Zoological Society, April 1832.]