307 OF ABSORPTION BY VEINS. tied up the empty vein, and put all into the cavity of the belly for a quarter of an hour. After that we examined the part, found the lym- phatics very turgid, as the fluid could not pass through them towards the thoracic duct on account of the ligatures made upon the mesenteric vessels; but we found the veins of this part empty, except indeed that a little blood had got into them from the neighbouring vessels, which, from the appearance, had evidently passed the ligatures tied round the ends of the gut, a circumstance which it is very difficult to obviate. “ Experiment III. I next repeated the Third Experiment of Animal Second exactly in the same manner, and precisely with the same effect. Experiment IV. Then I repeated the Fourth Experiment of Animal Second, and the effect was still the same. ** N.B. It may not be amiss to observe that the lacteals continued to absorb the bluish liquor all this time, even at the part upon which this Fourth Experiment was made, where the nerves must necessarily have been tied up with the artery. “ Experiment V. I squeezed a piece of the intestine so as to empty it as entirely as well might be, then tied up all the lateral communica- tions of the vessels, and injected warm milk into the mesenteric vein till it returned by the artery, and continued this operation for some time after all the blood was washed out. Then I opened that part of the intestine through its whole length, and found it quite empty. “ I made this experiment again upon another part of the intestine, in the same manner, and exactly with the same success.” Here is a new doctrine proposed in physiology, viz. that the red veins do not absorb in the human body. The fair inquirer after truth will be convinced, by the observations which occurred to me, that the common opinion, that they do absorb, is supported by some proofs that are at least doubtful or equivocal, and that the other opinion is not without plausibility ; and he must allow that my brother’s experiments render it highly probable * [In attempting to form a correct estimate of the merits of Mr. Hunter as a dis- coverer in reference to the absorbent system, it becomes necessary, in the first place, to distinguish between the discovery of the vessels themselves, whether lacteals or lymphatics, and that of their functions and anatomical relations to the other parts of the vascular system. With respect to the Mammalia, it is scarcely necessary to observe that the existence of both lacteals and lymphatics had been determined in that class long before the time of Dr. William Hunter. The discovery of the lacteals by Asellius was first made publicly known in 1628; and that of the thoracic duct by Pecquet in 1651. In 1652 our countryman Joliff, having placed a ligature round the spermatic cord, saM', upon squeezing the testicle, that certain vessels, which he termed ‘ vasa Ivmpha- x2