168 OF PERSONS APPARENTLY DROWNED.- anything salutary to life, applied to the lungs, will restore the hearts action after it has been at rest some time. I shall divide violent deaths into three kinds: first, where a stop is put only to the action of life in the animal, but without any irreparable injury to a vital part, w^hich action, if not restored in a certain time, will be irrecoverably lost. The length of that time is subject to con- siderable variation, depending on circumstances with which we are at present unacquainted. The second is, where an injury is done to a vital part, as by taking away blood till the powers of action are lost; or by a wound or pressure being made on the brain or spinal marrow wdiile life remains in the solids sufficient for the preservation of the animal, if action could be restored to the vital parts. The third is, where ab- solute death instantly takes place in every part, as is often the case in strokes of lightning ; in the common method of killing eels, by throwing them on some hard substance, in such manner as that the whole length of the animal shall receive the shock at the same instant; by a blow on the stomach ; by violent affections of the mind; and by many diseases, in all which cases the muscles remain flexible*. How far that may be strictly considered as a violent death which is caused by affections of the mind, I will not pretend to say; but if it is to have a place in that class, it must be ranked with those wffiich happen from lightning, and a blow on the stomach; and in most cases of per- sons drowned, I can easily conceive the mind to be so much affected l^rior to the immersion, and in the moment immediately succeeding it, as to make a material difference in the power of recovery. In many sudden deaths arising from violence, and even from disease, death shall take place so immediately that the muscles neither contract, nor does the blood coagulate. The present consideration is, under which of the kinds .of violent death drowning can be classed or arranged ? I am of opinion it will most commonly come under the first, and upon that ground I shall ])rincipally consider the subject, always supposing the body to remain flaccid. The loss of motion in drowning seems to arise from the loss of respi- ration, and the immediate effects wdiich that has ui)on the other vital motions of the animal; except what may have arisen from the affections of the mind. The privation of breathing appears, however, to be the * On the other hand, when an eel is killed by chopping it into a number of pieces, the powers of life are by those means roused into action ; and as every part dies in that active state, every part is found stiff after death. This explains the custom of cutting fish into pieces while yet alive, in order to make them hard, usually known by the name of crimping.