OF ABSORPTION BY VEINS. 311 not, by the most careful and varied experiments, be detected in the veins. Great pre- caution was taken to ascertain that fact. Since the natural colour of the blood ren- dered it difficult to perceive a change of hue, the contents of the veins were collected and suffered to coagulate, in the expectation of the serum manifesting the presence of the indigo; but it had not the least bluish tint. Warm milk was then made to circulate from the artery into the vein; and it might surely have been expected, especially if the doctrine of non-vital imbibition advocated by M. Majendie were true, to have then had a trace of the coloured contents of the in- testine in the venal milk; but no such result took place. The experiment upon the ass, in which the odour of musk was present in the chyle, but not in the venous blood, is not refeiTed to by M. Majendie. In making these comments it is by no means intended to uphold the infallibility of Mr, Hunter; but it may be safely averred that a candid and careful perusal of his ex- periments on absorption, recorded in the text, will not only exonerate him from any charge of haste or negligence, but must impress the unprejudiced reader \Auth the con- viction that those experiments have rarely been equalled and never excelled, either in the ingenuity and foresight manifested in their contrivance, in the skill and precaution against eiTor displayed during their performance, in the fairness of the conclusions deduced from them, or in the minute accuracy and candour which peiwade their nar- ration. To prove the absorbent power of the lymphatics, however, is one thing; that the veins are thereby deprived of the power of absorbing altogether is another; and it is in reference to this latter question that the experiments of M. Flandrin, recorded by M. Majendie, become interesting to the physiologist. But we may observe, enpassant, that if M, Majendie and his collaborateur failed to obtain the same results as Hunter from similar experiments, other and as ‘able experimenters in recent times have been more successful. Schroeder von der Kolk, for example, filled a loop of intestine in a living dog with a solution of the ferro-prusiate of potass, and included the distended loop between two ligatures. He then placed the loop and its contents in a solution of sulphate of iron. The blue compound, which could be formed l)y no other means except by the union of the two chemical fluids, was manifested in the lacteals alone, and not in the veins. {Muller's Physiologie, p. 229.) Viridet and Mattel also found that the chyle derived from yolk of egg was yellow, while that from food mixed with madder was red. It is allowed indeed by all physiologists, and even by M. Majendie, that the lacteals absorb the chyle. But various experiments seem to show that other fluids, and espe- cially those of a poisonous nature, are taken up from the intestines by the veins. Such was the general result of the numerous experiments of Tiedemann and Gmelinh Those related by Majendie are not, however, free from objection. He opened the abdo- men of a dog; a loop of intestine was included between two ligatures and separated from the rest of the canal, all other connection between the intestine and the rest of the body was destroyed except a single mesenteric artery and vein. Two ounces of the decoction of mix vomica were then injected into the detached portion of gut. In six minutes the effects of the poison manifested themselves with the ordinary inten- sity. Great precaution was taken to obviate the doubt which any lacteals remaining attached to the coats of the vessels might have occasioned; but as this objection might still be urged, the following more conclusive experiment was performed: a limb of a dog was amputated with the exception of a single artery and vein, which alone kept up the communication between the limb and the trunk; upas poison was then inserted * [Vcrsuche fiber die Wege auf welchem Substanzen aus dem Magen iind Harm Kanal ins Blut gelangen.]