XXXIX PREFACE. vancing comparative anatomy and physiology, his annual de- monstrations of his collection to such individuals as we have instanced must not be overlooked. We may admit that while so vast a proportion of the stores of his experience lay buried in unpublished manuscripts, his true station in the temple of Science could hardly be discerned ; but, independently of these manuscripts, we cannot hesitate in allowing that his published works, full of profound and original views, combined with the spectacle of his wonderful dissections, must have effected more than had been done by any previous author towards raising the science of comparative anatomy in the scale of human know- ledge. Now, however, we have to estimate the scientific character of Hunter fi’om more extended grounds. ■ Enjo)dng the same privilege of consulting his museum, w^hich the contemporaries of Hunter so highly esteemed, we also pos- sess the advantage of studying it with the aid of those expla- nations of its scope and nature which its great founder had left with a view to ulterior publication. Thanks to the devotion of the last of Hunter’s pupils to the memory of his great master, the evidences of Hunter’s disco- veries and labours, as recorded in his collections, are in a better state of preservation at this moment than they were nearly fifty years ago, when they first fell to the care-and charge of Mr. Clift. And here I embrace with pleasure the opportunity of expressing my grateful thanks to that gentleman for the kind aid which I have on every needful occasion received from him during the impression of the present work, and of recording my deep sense of the advantages which I have derived from a long intercourse with one whom I shall ever regard as the best of friends and worthiest of men. It is to the zeal and industry which induced Mr. Clift to transcribe portions of the Hunterian manuscripts, at a period when he little suspected their ultimate fate, that we owe our additional knowledge of the philosophical views which Hunter entertained of the application of anatomical facts, and of the general principles which he had deduced from them. As such of these extracts from the Hunterian Manuscripts as have been quoted in the present work have already been printed in the