356 OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE length; so that the whole surface, composed of these terminations, forms one plane rising gradually from the roof of the mouth; from this obliquity of the edge of the outer row, we may in some measure judge of the extent of the whole base, but not exactly, as it makes a hollow curve, which increases the base. The whole surface resembles the skin of an animal covered with strong hair, under which surface the tongue must immediately lie when the mouth is shut: it is of a light brown colour in the piked whale, and is darker in the large whale. In the piked whale, when the mouth is shut, the projecting whale- bone remains entirely on the inside of the lower jaw, the two jaws meeting everywhere along their surface ; but how this is effected in the large whale I do not certainly know, the horizontal plane made by the lower jaw being straight, as in the piked whale ; but the upper jaw, being an arch, cannot be hid by the lower. I suppose therefore that a broad upper lip, meeting as low as the lower jaw, covers the whole of the outer edges of the exterior rows. The whalebone is continually wearing down, and renewing in the same proportion, except when the animal is growing it is renewed faster and in proportion to the growth. The formation of the whalebone is extremely curious, being in one respect similar to that of the hair, horns, spurs, &c.; but it has besides another mode of growth and decay equally singular. These plates form upon a thin vascular substance, not immediately adhering to the jaw-bone, but having a more dense substance between, which is also vascular. This substance, which may be called the nidus of the whalebone, sends out (the above) thin broad processes {a. PI. LI.), answering to each plate, on which the plate is formed, as the cock's spur, or the bull’s horn on the bony core, or a tooth on its pulp; so that each plate is necessarily hollow at its growing end, the first part of the growth taking place on the inside of this hollow. Besides this mode of growth, which is common to all such substances, it receives additional layers on the outside (B. PI. LI.), which are formed upon the above-mentioned vascular substance extended along the surface of the jaw. This part also forms upon it a semi-horny substance be- tween each plate, which is very white, rises with the whalebone, and becomes even with the outer edge of the jaw, and the termination of its outer part forms the bead above-mentioned. This intermediate sub- stance (C. PI. LI.) fills up the spaces between the plates as high as the jaw, acts as abutments to the whalebone, or is similar to the alveolar processes of the teeth, keeping them firm in their places. As both the whalebone and intermediate substance are constantly