OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. 103 may be set down as a fact that digestion goes on in the fourth, which is best proved by feeding the animal with a substance that does not re- quire any kind of preparation for digestion, such as milk. If a calf be killed about half an hour after it has sucked its mother, we shall find the whole milk in the fourth cavity firmly coagulated, and formed into a ball, while the first, second, and third cavities contain only such food as requires mastication, or what other preparation is necessary to fit it for digestion. Such animals have the power of conveying the food from the oesophagus, either to the first or fourth cavity, according to the na- ture of the food ; and for this purpose there is a groove leading directly from the oesophagus to the fourth stomach, which I suppose can be con- verted into a canal when wanted. It is possible that digestion may likewise be carried on in the duode- num, especially in its upper part, if either the intestine secretes the same juice with the stomach, or that some of the gastric juice and part of the food have passed into the intestine before it has been completely turned into chyle Although the stomach is the seat of digestion, it is not solely appro- priated to that purpose; and in many animals these organs are not to be considered as only a digesting bag or bags, but in part as a reservoir for food. This is most remarkable in the ruminating animals, where the first stomach or bag is merely a reservoir, and in this respect ana- logous to a crop. It is the same in the porpus, and, I believe, in most animals of this class; although it cannot be supposed that those return the food who have not the power to masticate. In some animals which do not ruminate there is not the same necessity for distinct pouches, the stomach consisting either of one bag singly, or of stomach with ap- pendages, as in the peccari. But the whole organ is not endowed with the property of secreting the gastric juice, there being a part whose structure is very dilferent from that appropriated to digestion, and covered by a cuticle, as in the first, second, and third stomach of the ruminating animals, and in the first stomach of the porpus. The pec- * [This conjecture is confirmed by the observations of Tiedemann and Gmelin, who found that when any vegetable fecula passed the pylorus unaltered it was converted in the duodenum, as in the stomach, into sugar and amydine. Majendie attempted to subject this question to direct experiment, but failed from not having insured the continuance of the substance experimented on in the necessary situ- ation. He found, on introducing a piece of raw flesh into the duodenum of a healthy dog, that in an hour it had been carried to the rectum: its weight was slightly dimi- nished, but there was no other change than a discoloration of its surface. In another experiment he fixed a morsel of flesh in the small intestine with a thread; after the lapse of three hours it had lost about half its weight: the fibrin had been principally acted upon; what was left was entirely cellular, and extremely foetid. See Precis Elementaire de Physiologic, ii. p. 114.]