146 ON ANIMALS PRODUCING HEAT. Experiment XXL The thermometer was introduced into the rectum of an ox, and the quicksilver rose exactly to 99-f®. Experiment XXII. This was also repeated upon a rabbit, and the quicksilver rose to 994-°. From experiments on mice and upon the dog, it plainly appears that every part of an animal is not of the same degree of heat; and hence we may reasonably infer, that the heat of the vital parts of man is greater than either the mouth, rectum, or the urethra. To determine how far my idea was just, that the heat of animals va- ried in proportion to their degree of perfection, I made the following experiments upon fowls^ which I considered as one remove below what are commonly called quadrupeds. Experiment XXIII. I introduced the ball of the thermometer suc- cessively into the intestinum rectum of several hens, and found that the quicksilver rose as high as 103°, 103-^°, and in one of them to 104°. Experiment XXIV. I made the same experiments on several cocks, and the result was the same. Experiment XXV. To determine if the heat of the hen was increased when she was prepared for incubation, I repeated the twenty-third ex- periment upon several sitting or clucking hens; in one th6 quicksilver rose to 104°, in another to 1034-°, ^ third to 103°, as in the twenty- third experiment. Experiment XXVI. I placed the ball of the thermometer under the same hen, in whose rectum the quicksilver was raised to 104°, and found the heat as great as in the rectum. Experiment XXVII. Having taken some of the eggs from under the same hen, where the chick was about three parts formed, I broke a hole in the shell, and introducing the ball of the thermometer, found that the quicksilver rose to 99-4°. some that were addled I found the heat not so high by two degrees; so that the life in the living egg assisted in some degree to support its own heat. Is the increase of three or four degrees of heat, which is the difference found between the fowl and the quadruped, for the purpose of incuba- tion ? The heat in the eggs, which was caused and supported by that of the fowls, was not above the standard of the quadrupeds; and it would probably have been less if the heat of the hen had not been so great. Finding, from the above experiments, that fowls were some degrees warmer than that class commonly called quadrupeds (although certainly less perfect animals), I chose to continue the experiments upon the same principle, and made the following upon those of a still inferior order.