ON ANIMALS PRODUCING HEAT. 143 might compare them with those in the dormouse; and his account is as follows: “ Experiment I. In the winter, the atmosphere at 44®, the heat of a torpid hedgehog, in the pelvis, was 45®, and at the diaphragm 484^®. “ Experiment II. The atmosphere 26®, the heat of a torpid hedge- hog, in the cavity of the abdomen, was reduced so low as 30®. “ Experiment III. The same hedgehog was exposed to the cold at- mosphere of 26® for two days, and the heat of the rectum was found to be 93®; the wound in the abdomen being now so small that it would not admit the thermometer. “ A comparative experiment was made with a puppy, the atmosphere at 50®; the heat in the pelvis, as also at the diaphragm, was 102®. In summer, the atmosphere at 78®, the heat of the hedgehog, in an active state, in the cavity of the abdomen, towards the pelvis, was 95®; at the diaphragm 97®.” We find, from these experiments, that the heat of an animal is in- creased under the circumstances of cold, whenever there are actions to be carried on for which heat is necessary. In the experiments on the first dormouse the heat of the animal was 80®, which is below the standard heat of the actions of that animal; and after being put into the'cold mixture its heat was raised to 85®. In the second dormouse the heat was raised, by repeated experiments, from 75° to 93®. This question naturally occurs here ; Was the increase of heat in the animals generated to resist the artificial cold produced by placing them in a cold atmosphere ? or was it owing to a wound having been made into the cavity of the abdomen, and an exertion of the animal powers being required to repair the injury, which exertion could not take place without the increased degree of heat ? That it was in con- sequence of the wound, appears evident from the experiment made upon the second hedgehog; for in an atmosphere of 26® of heat it was in a very torpid state, and did not raise the thermometer higher than 30®; but after being wounded and put back into the cold, and kept there for two days, its heat in the rectum was 93®, and so far from being torpid, it was lively, and the bed in which it lay felt warm*. Why the heat of the dormouse should be so low as 80®, in an atmo- sphere of between 50® and 60®, is not easily accounted for, except as the effect of sleep. But I should very much suspect that sleep, simply considered, is out of the question, it being an effect that takes place in all degrees of heat and cold. In animals whose voluntary actions are * It is found, from experiments, that the heat of an inflamed part is nearly the greatest or standard heat of the animal, it appearing to be a part of the process of in- flammation to raise the heat up to the standard.