404 OF THE ELECTRIC PROPERTY OF THE TORPEDO. delivered in the air, he constantly gave at least two when wholly in the air, and- constantly one, and sometimes two, when wholly in the water. The shocks in water appeared, as far as sensation could de- cide, not to have near a fourth of the force of those at the surface of the water, nor much more than a fourth of those entirely in the air. The shocks received in a certain time were not on this occasion counted by a watch, as they had been on a former, when fifty were de- livered in a minute and a half by the animal in an insulated and un- agitated state : but from the quickness with which the immersions were made, it may be presumed there were full twenty of these in a minute; from whence the number of shocks in that time must have amounted to above a hundred. This experiment, therefore, while it discovered the comparative force between a shock in water and one in air, and be- tween a shock delivered with greater exertion on the part of the animal and one with less, seemed to determine, that the charge of his organs with electricity was effected in an instant, as well as the discharge. The torpedo was then put into a flat basket, open at top, but se- cured by a net with wide meshes, and in this confinement was let down into the water about a foot below the surface: being there touched through the meshes with only a single finger on one of his electric organs, while the other hand was held at a distance in the water, he gave shocks which were distinctly felt in both hands. The circuit for the passage of the effect being contracted to the finger and thumb ^of one hand, applied above and below to a single organ, produced a shock, to our sensation, of twice the force of that in the larger circuit by the arms. The torpedo, still confined in the basket, being raised to within three inches of the surface of the water, was there touched with a short iron bolt, which was held half above and half in the water by one hand, while the other hand was dipped as before at a distance in the water; and strong shocks, felt in both hands, were thus obtained through the iron. A wet hempen cord being fastened to the iron bolt, was held in the hand above water, while the bolt touched the torpedo; and shocks were obtained through both those substances. A less powerful torpedo, suspended in a small net, being frequently dipped into water and raised again, gave from the surface of the water slight shocks through the net to the person holding it. These experiments in water manifested that bodies immersed in that element might be affected by immediate contact with the torpedo; that the shorter the circuit in which the electricity moved, the greater