224 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. CROONIAN LECTURE ON MUSCULAR MOTION, No. II. [Read before the Royal Society in the year 1797, by John Hunter, F.R.S.l THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE ANIMAL MACHINE, WITH THE ME- CHANICAL EFFECTS PRODUCED BY THE MUSCLES AS MECHANI- ■ CAL POWERS. Mechanical arrangement of the FiJn'es of Muscles, The most simple mode of investigating an animal body is first to con- sider the matter of which it is composed. In this inquiry we shall find it more than probable that there is but one species of matter which is peculiar to animals, and therefore I shall call it animal matter. ' The blood appears to be the most simple modification of this matter: it-is the material from which all the solids are composed. The next modification, or what may be called the simplest organiza- tion, is a certain arrangement of this matter so as to produce some ac- tion. This may be of two kinds: first, such an arrangement as may take place in any kind of matter, so as to produce elasticity. The se- cond is such as is capable of producing a motion in itself, without the cause being mechanical as in elasticity : this is the composing of a mus- cular fibre. A muscular fibre is one of the simplest constructions of an active solid, and it is these fibres which compose almost the whole of many animals. The muscles are the powers in an animal body, and are perhaps the most regular parts of the whole. They are apparently constructed of fibres laid nearly parallel to one another; in some they are extended longitudinally from one end to the other of the muscle which they com- pose ; in others their direction is oblique to the body of the muscle ; this obliquity in some is regular from one end of the muscle to the other, while in other muscles the fibres lie in contrary directions. In some a number of these oblique portions compose the muscle ; the parallelism, however, in each portion is preserved. This parallelism is only found in some of those muscles whose fibres all tend to one point of action, and they are nearly of equal lengths in every part of such muscles ; but where parts of a muscle produce different effects the fibres vary in length, suited to the quantity of motion admitted by the directions of the joints.