FOR THE CROONIAN LECTURE. 289 Mr. Hunter had proceeded thus far in the account of his experiments, when he was suddenly, and very unexpectedly, carried off; and as he has left no notes upon this subject, I am unable to make any addition to the account I have already given. Mr. Hunter’s laying claim to the discovery of a fibrous structure in the crystalline humour, which had been observed long before, and de- scribed by the accurate Leuwenhoek, may appear to require some ex- planation. The discovery of a fibrous appearance in that humour ap- pertains to Leuwenhoek; but the discovery of an eye in which this structure of the crystalline humour was perfectly distinct, and in which all tlie circumstances of course and situation could be determined, is due to Mr. Hunter^: and if it should be found, by future observation and experiments, that this structure, which is different from any that has hitherto been described, is capable of producing consequent actions and effects, sufficient to explain the adjustment of the eye to different distances, it will not be considered as a small or unimportant disco- very. ® [In this investigation by Hunter of the intimate structure of the crystalline lens we may perceive the continuation of the series of discoveries w^hich, commenced by Leuwenhoek, have, in the hands of Sir David Brewster, produced such unexpected results, and opened so interesting a field for philosophical experiment and teleological speculation -with regard to this part of the mechanism of the instrument of ^^sion. Notwithstanding the anatomical remarks of Hunter, the observations of Professor Blair {Edinburgh Transactions, vol. iii.), and the experiments of Young, Wollaston, Wells, and Frauenhofer, we still find, even in very recent physiological works, a mere repetition of the simple statement of Paley that the lens consists of concentric layers, which gradually increase in density from the ckcumference to the centre; and, under the influence of an apt comparison, the principle of the construction of the lens is as- serted to be the same as that of the compound or achromatic object-glass, and the in- vention of Dollond to be a repetition, though an imperfect one, of this the natural type and perfection of a dioptric instrument which is supposed to converge the rays of light into a focus without any dispersion of the rays, and consequently without the produc- tion of false colours round the image. Now the fact is that the image given by the eye is not perfect with regard to colours in its ordinary exercise: there is not only di- spersion of the rays of light, but the quantity of dispersion has been measured, and the different focal lengths of the eye for red and violet lights have been acciurately de- termined by Young and Frauenhofer; the latter philosopher, indeed, has found it ne- cessary to correct the dispersion of the eye in the construction of his achromatic object- glasses. But to return to the structure of the crystalline lens,—this complex and beautiful part consists, according to Sir David Brewster, of innumerable fibres of nearly the same length, each of which tapers from its middle part to its two extremities, like the gores or gussets of a globe. In the lenses of some animals the extremities of all the fibres terminate in two opposite poles ; in others, in a line at each pole, the line at the posterior pole being at right angles to the line at the anterior pole, and all the fibres except a few being bent into the most beautiful curves of contrary flexure. In some lenses the fibres terminate in the lines of a rectangular cross at each pole, the VOL. IV. u