CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 223 and more particularly in great exertions, is therefore the largest and strongest. People who play much at tennis, where the ball is always stiaick with the right hand, have that arm much thicker and stronger than the left; therefore a man originally well-proportioned shall lose that proportion by being employed in any action that does not require the whole body. From these facts it must appear, that if every animal was perfectly made, with respect to any standard proportion of its parts, that few would be allowed to grow to that standard, because few animals exert all their muscles equally, there being in most some circumstances in life which oblige them to exert one set of muscles more than another. This is probably more the case in man than in any other animal, and also in him less determined to any one set of muscles more than another; it, however, also takes place in animals, as there will be a considerable difference in the muscles of two birds’ breasts of the same species, one being allowed to fly, and the other kept in a cage. The increase in the voluntary muscles appears not to be without limi- tation, and indeed if it was we might see them increase beyond concep- tion. What principle sets bounds to this increase from action is not known; the circumstance of these muscles tiring may become a cause. This increase is not confined to the voluntary muscles, for the invo- luntary, when obliged from any circumstance to act with uncommon force, also enlarge, and become stronger, and in a much greater degree than the voluntary. The bladder has been found exceedingly thickened in its muscular coat where there are either strictures in the urethra or stones in the bladder, for in this last complaint, although it discharges the urine, yet it continues to act with more violence than usual, being irritated by the stone, which it cannot expel. I have seen it increased to three times its natural thickness^. Increase of thickness in the auricles and ventricles of the heart, in consequence of an aneurism in the arch of the aorta, is not uncommon. The cremaster muscles I have seen very much enlarged in cases of hydrocele of long standing. In the increase of involuntary muscles there appear to be no limits; the power of increasing seems to be in proportion to the necessity, and as they do not tire there is no end to their power of acting. Whether this increase of the body of a muscle is a new addition of muscular fibres, or an increase in size of those already formed, is not easily determined, but I should be inclined to suppose the last. * [Hunter has preserved many preparations in his Pathological Series illustrative of this fact, as Nos. 746, 762, 755, 758, 759, and 961, &c.]