OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. Il9 other stomachs, but even by the remains of that power which itself had of digesting other things. These observations lead us to account for an appearance which we often find in the stomachs of dead bodies; and they at the same time throw considerable light upon the nature of digestion. The appear- ance we allude to is a dissolution of the stomach as its great extremity, in consequence of which there is frequently a considerable aperture made in that viscus. The edges of this opening appear to be half dis- solved, very much like that kind of solution which fleshy parts undergo when half digested in a living stomach, or when acted upon by a caustic alkali, viz. pulpy, tender, and ragged. In these cases the contents of the stomach are generally found loose in the cavity of the abdomen, about the spleen and diaphragm; and in many subjects the influence of this digestive power extends much further than through the stomach. I have often found that, after the stomach had been dissolved at the usual place, its contents let loose had come into contact with the spleen and diaphragm, had dissolved the diaphragm quite through, and had partly affected the adjacent side of the spleen, so that what had been contained in the stomach was found in the cavity of the thorax, and had even affected the lungs to a small degree. There are very few dead bodies in which the stomach at its great end is not in some degree digested; and one who is acquainted with dis- sections can easily trace these gradations. To be sensible of this effect nothing more is necessary than to compare the inner surface of the great end of the stomach with any other part of its inner surface ; the sound portions will appear soft, spongy, and granulated, and without distinct blood-vessels, opake and thick; while the others will appear smooth, thin, and more transparent; and the vessels will be seen rami- fying in its substance, and upon squeezing the blood which they con- tain from the larger branches to the smaller, it will be found to pass out at the digested ends of the vessels, and to appear like drops on the in- ner surface. I'hough I have often seen such appearances, and supposed that they must have been seen by others, yet I was quite at a loss to account for them. At first I supposed them to have been produced during life, and was therefore inclined to look upon them as the cause of death, only that I never found they had any connexion with the patient’s symptoms; but I was still more at a loss to account for them when I discovered they were most frequent in those who died by sudden violence; a circum- stance which made me suspect that the true cause was not guessed at*. • The first time (hat I had occasion to observe this appearance where death had been produced by violence, and where it could not therefore easily be supposed to be the