323 OF THE WOLF, JACKAL, AND DOG. birds and has a collection of animals on Holborn-hill, repeated the ex- periment on a wolf-bitch, which was very tame, and had all the actions of a dog under confinement. A dog is the most proper subject for com- parison, as we have opportunities of being acquainted with its disposi- tion and mode of exj^ressing its sensations, which are most distinguish- able in the motion of the ears and tail; such as pricking up the ears when anxious, wishing, or in expectation; depressing them when sup- plicant or in fear; raising the tail in anger or love, depressing it in fear, and moving it laterally in friendship; and likewise in raising the hair on the back from many affections of the mind. This animal be- came in heat in the month of December 1785 ; and Mr. Gough having an idea of obtaining a breed from wild animals, as monkies, leopards, &c., he was desirous to have the wolf lined by some dog; but she would not allow any dog to come near her, probably from being always chained, and not accustomed to be with dogs. She was held, however, while a greyhound dog lined her, and they fastened together exactly like the dog and bitch. While in conjunction she remained pretty quiet, but when at liberty endeavoured to fly at the dog; yet in this way was twice lined. She conceived, and brought forth four young ones ; and though the time she went with young was not exactly known, it was believed to be the same as in the bitch. Two of these puppies were like the dog in colour, who had large black spots on a white ground ; another was of a black colour; the fourth of a kind of dun, and would probably have been like the mother^. She took great care of them, yet did not seem very anxious when one was taken from her by the keeper; nor did days at the mosth She brought forth four young ones of a blackish coloiu, some of whose feet, and a part of the breast, were white ; in this respect taking after the dog, which was black and white. From the time she littered she became surly, and set up her back at those who came near her; did not know her masters, and w^ould even have killed the dog if it had been in her power.” ^ This is a longer period than in the bitch by at least ten days, but as the account was made from the first time of her being lined, and she was in heat for a fortnight, and lined in that time, it is very probable, if the time was known when she conceived, that it would prove to be the same period as in the dog. ® [Here it may be observed, that, from the known disposition of varieties to revert to the original, it might have been expected, on the supposition that the w^olf is the original of the dog, that the produce of the wolf and dog ought rather to have re- sembled the supposed original than the variety. In a fitter lately obtained, in the Royal Menagerie at Berlin, from a white pointer and a she-wmlf, two of the cubs re- sembled the common wolf-dog, but the third w^as like a pointer with hanging ears j 2 [Lyell, Principles of Geologj^ vol. ii. p. 438, who cites Wiegmann for this fact.] Y 2