384 OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE cochlea, and one into the semicircular canals®, which afford a passage to the different divisions of the auditory nerve. There is a consider- able foramen in its anterior side near the bottom, for the passage of the portio dura, and which is continued backward to the cavity of the tympanum near the stapes, and emerges near the posterior and upper part of this bone. Of the Organ of Seeing. The eye in this tribe of animals is constructed upon nearly the same principle as that of quadrupeds, differing, however, in some circum- stances ; by which it is probably better adapted to see in the medium through which the light is to pass. It is upon the whole small for the size of the animaP, which would lead to the supposition that their lo- comotion is not great; for I believe animals that swim are in this re- spect similar to those that fly; and as this tribe come to the surface of the medium in which they live, they may be considered in the same view with birds which soar; and we find birds that fly to great heights, and move through a considerable space in search of food, have their eyes larger in proportion to their size. The eyelids have but little motion‘d, and do not consist of loose cel- lular membrane, as in quadrupeds, but rather of the common adipose membrane of the body; the connection, however, of their circumference with the common integuments is loose, the cellular membrane being less loaded with oil, which allows of a slight fold being made upon the sur- rounding parts in oj^ening the eyelids. This is not to an equal degree in them all, being less so in the porpoise than in the piked whale. The tunica conjunctiva, where it is reflected from the eyelid to the eyeball, is perforated all round by small orifices of the ducts of a circle of glandular bodies lying behind it. The lachrymal gland is small ^ ; its use being supplied by those above mentioned; and the secretion from them all I believe to be a mucus ® [The semicircular canals are chiefly remarkable for their small proportional size; they were overlooked by Camper and Pallas, but were described by Comparetti two years later thanHunter,in his Observationes anatomic(zdeAureinternag Patara,1789.] [The longest diameter of the eye of the mysticete whale and of the cachalot is two inches and a half, that of the piked whale four inches; but the eye owes much of its bulk to the thick sclerotic. An affinity to the elephant and other large Pachy- derms is manifested in this circumstance.] ® [The true Cetacea have no tarsal cartilages, and no membrana nictitans, or third eyelid; this is present in the herbivorous species, as the dugong and manatee, and is represented by a thick duplicature of the conjunctiva at the inner canthus in the cachalot.] ^ [This is merely a larger development of the palpebral glands at the inner side of the eyeball, and should therefore be regarded as analogous to a Ilarderian gland.]