99 OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. not have been received from the external air, nor could it have arisen from putrefaction. The case is as follows : A lady, about forty years of age, had been afflicted with complaints in the bladder and parts connected with it. From the symptoms, her disease was supposed by some to be the stone, though upon examination no stone was found; and she had also an umbilical hernia, for which I had been consulted. She grew gradually worse, and from being lusty, became a thin woman. A small tumour appeared in the groin, and the skin over it became red, similar to an abscess when the matter is begin- ning to point externally; but before her death this subsided. A few days before she died I was desired to examine a swelling on the lower and right side of the belly, extending nearly from the navel to the spine of the ilium on the right side. It was tense, evidently contained air, and could be made to sound almost like a drum. It had come on within a few weeks, and I was puzzled to account for it, there being clearly no connexion between that tumour and the umbilical hernia. I was in- clined to suppose it to be a ventral hernia, containing the caecum and part of the colon, filled with air; but as she had stools, as there were no symptoms of a strangulated gut nor any uneasiness in the bowels, as I could not make the air recede, but felt it as if confined to that part, I own I could form no conjecture what the case really was. The wo- man dying in a few days, I was permitted to examine the body. That I might not interfere with the tumour, or umbilical hernia, I made an opening into the abdomen on the right side of the linea alba, and on examining the cavity of the abdomen, found everything natural, except a small portion of the epiploon adhering to the inside of the navel; the parietes of the abdomen corresponding with the tumour being in a na- tural state. On pressing the tumour by the hand, air was heard to make its escape; whether by the vagina or anus was at first doubtful; but on examining with more attention, it was discovered to come from between the labia. I next opened the tumour externally, and let out the air, which was not in the least putrid, and was contained in a sac tolerably smooth on its inside, made up of compressed cellular mem- brane, the abdominal muscles and tendons forming the posterior surface, which extended as low as the inferior edge of Poupart’s ligament. The contents of the abdomen were tolerably sound; but when I in- t spected the viscera contained in the pelvis, they were, found adhering ' to each other; the bladder to the body of the uterus; the broad liga- I ments and ovaria to the uterus; and on examining these adhesions, I ! discovered a cavity between the bladder, uterus, and vagina, on the right side, something like an abscess. From the right side of this cavity ; there was a canal ascending to the brim of the pelvis, in the course of II 2