AND (ECONOMY OK WHALES. 38? The nigrum pigmentum only covers the ciliary processes, and lines the inside of the iris®. The retina appears to be nearly similar to that of the quadruped. The arteries going to the coats of the eye form a plexus passing round the optic nerve, resembling in its appearance that of the sper- matic artery in the bull and some other animals^. The crystalline humour resembles that of the quadruped ; but whe- ther it is very convex or flattened I cannot determine, those I have examined having been kept too long to preserve their exact shape and size‘s. The vitreous humour adhered to the retina at the entrance of the optic nerve. The optic nerve is very long in some species, owing to the vast width of the head'^. I shall not at present consider the eye in animals of this tribe, as it respects the power of vision, that being performed on a general princi- rhuischiana) is equally vascular, of a pale colour, dense, but tliinncr, most delicately villous and lined by a remarkable tapetum of a bluish-white colour in the whale, with a greenish and somewhat yellowish tinge in the cachalot, and of a very light blue in the porpesse. The ciliary zone is black, broad, almost flat, composed of about seventy long processes, thick, flexuous, and extending their cylindrical apices almost as far as the anterior surface of the lens.] ® [When this layer of pigment is removed from the iris, (as Hunter has done in the preparation 1680, Physiological Series), the flbrous structure of the posterior part of the iris becomes very apparent; the outer series of fibres converge towards the mar- gin of the pupil, where they are concealed by the sphincter fibres which surround that part; these latter elliptically disposed fibres are stronger than the radiated ones. The posterior fibrous coat of the iris may be separated without much difficulty from the anterior vascular layer. This consists chiefly of the branches of the two long ciliary arteries, which bifurcate opposite the long axis of the pupil, and, the opposite branches anastomosing, form a canal which surrounds the pupil. Numerous tortuous or wavy branches radiate from this canal towards the outer margin of the iris. In the preparations No. 1680 and 1683 the structure of the iris in the whale is beautifully shown. The choroid is puckered up into numerous minute folds, which form the ciliary zone; of these folds every third, fourth, or fifth becomes enlarged, and is extended forw^ards in the form of a wrinkled process about three lines in length, compressed laterally, and terminating somewhat obtusely ; between these larger cifiary processes, whieh are about seventy in number, there are shorter processes of a similar structure.] ** [See prep. No. 1679, Physiological Series, Hunterian Museum.] [The crystalline lens is inclosed in a strong capsule, is remarkably globose, rather more flattened anteriorly than posteriorly, placed at a veiy small distance from the eornea, and accordingly diminishing the space for the aqueous, while it increases that for the vitreous humour. In the preparations of the crystalline lens in the Hunterian Museum, preps. Nos. 1658—1687, the nucleus is seen to be excentric, and situated on the posterior half of the lens, and is of a dark colour.] ** [When this nerve is divided transversely, and the medullary substance squeezed out, the neurilema does not present the form of tubes, but of numerous septa, which converge from the circumference to the centre of the nerve.] 2c2