35 OF THE FREE-MARTIN. more perfect; and as animals become more complicated, have more parts, and each part is more confined to its particular use, a separation of the two necessary powers for generation seems also to take place*. The unnatural hermaphrodite**, I believe, now and then occurs in every tribe of animals having distinct sexes, but is more common in some than * [The animals in which the organs of the two sexes are naturally combined in the same individual are confined to the invertebrate division, and are most common in the molluscous and radiate classes. If the term hermaphrodite may be applied to those species which propagate without the concourse of the sexes, but in which no distinct male organ can be detected, as well as to those in which both male and female organs are present in the same body, then there may be distinguished three kinds of her- maphroditism. First, the cryptandrous, or in which the female or productive organs are alone de- veloped. Ex, the acephalous mollusks, as the oyster, lamp-cockle, and ascidia; the cystic entozoa, echinoderms, acalephes, polyps, and sponges. Second, the heautandrous, or in which the male organs are developed, but so disposed as to fecundate the ova of the same individual. Ex. the cirripeds, the rotifers, the tre- matode and cestoid entozoa. Third, the allotriandrous, or in which the male organs are so disposed as not to fecun- date the ova of the same body, but where the concourse of two individuals is required, notwithstanding the co-existence in each of the organs of the two sexes. Ex. the gastro- podous mollusks, with the exception of the pectinibranchiate order, the class Annellida. All the other invertebrates, as the cephalopods and pectinibranchiate gastropods, the insects, arachnidans and crustaceans, the epizoa, and the nematoid entozoa, are, like the vertebrate classes, dioecious, or composed of male and female individuals.] [The unnatural hermaphrodites may be divided into those in which the parts pecu- liar to the two sexes are blended together in different proportions, and the whole body participates of a neutral character, tending towards the male and female as the respec- tive organs predominate, and into those in which the male and female organs occupy respectively separative halves of the body, and impress on each lateral moiety the cha- racteristics of the sex. This latter and very singular kind of hermaphroditism has hitherto been found only in insects and crustaceans. In the Extracts from the Minute- Book of the Linnean Society, printed in the 14th Vol. of their Transactions, it is stated that x\lex. MacLeay, Esq., Sec. L.S., exhibited a curious specimen showing that two Papiliones, referred to distinct families by Fabricius, are in reality the male and female of the same species. This specimen presented the forms and colours of both sexes, divided by a longitudinal line on the body: the right wings and side of the body being as in the male (Papilio Polycaon, Fabr.), and the left as in the female (Papilio Laodo- cus, Fabr.). In Loudon’s Magazine of Natural History, (vol. iv. p. 434,) an experi- enced entomologist, Mr. J. O. Westwood, has given descriptions and figures, not only of dimidiate hermaphrodites, (the example is the Bomlyx Penii) but also of quartered hermaphrodites: the latter singular condition is exemplified in a specimen of the Bom- hyx castrensis, in which the right wing, left antenna, and left side of the abdomen are male; the left wing, right antenna, and right side of the abdomen are female: and again in a specimen of the stag-beetle {Lucanus Cervus), in which the left jaw and right elytrum are masculine, and the right jaw and left elytrum feminine. In most dimidiate hermaphrodites the left side is masculine; but an example of the contrary has been observed in Sphinx Populi. It is to be regretted that the condition of the internal organs of generation cannot be ascertained in the above singular examples; but this deficiency is in some degree supplied by the results of Dr. Nicholl’s dissection of a hermaphrodite