453 OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. the latter end of the same month, and beginning of September, they are dying, but seem to be hastened to their end by the labourers. In 1791, as early as the 19th of June, I saw the labourers killing the males of a hive, or rather of a swarm, that had not yet swarmed, but was hanging out; this, however, was out of the common course. Tliey appear to be sensible of their fate, for they hurry in and out of the hive as quick as possible, seemingly with a view to avoid the labourers; and we find them attacked by the labourers, who pinch them with their forceps, and when they are so hurt, and fatigued with attempts to make their escape, as not to be able to fly, they are thrown over on the ground and left to die. That this is the fate of every male bee is easily ascer- tained, by examining every bee in the hive when killed for the honey, which is after this season; no male being then found in it. Bonnet supposes them starved to death, as he never saw w'ounds on them. In the course of a winter I have killed several hives, some as late as April, and in such a way as to preserve every bee, and after examining every one entirely, I never perceived one male of any kind; although it has been asserted there are two sizes of males, and that the small are pre- served through the winter to impregnate the queen. Of the Labouring Bee. This class, for we cannot call it either sex or species, is the largest in number of the whole community; there are thousands of them to one queen, and probably some hundreds to each male, as we shall see by and by. It is to be supposed they are the only bees which construct the whole hive, and that the queen has no other business but to lay the eggs : they are the only bees that bring in materials ; the only ones we observe busy abroad; and, indeed, the idea of any other is ridiculous, when we consider the disproportion in numbers as well as the employ- ment of the others, while the working bee has nothing to take off its attention to the business of the family. They are smaller than either the queen or the males; not all of equal size, although the diflference is not very great. . The queen and the working bees are so much alike that the latter would seem to be females on a different scale: however, this difference is not so observable in the beginning of winter as in the spring, when the queen is full of eggs. They are all females in construction, having the female parts, which are extremely small, and would be easily over- looked by a person not very well acquainted with the parts in the queen: this has been observed by Mr. Riem; indeed, one might suppose that