248 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. muscles, neither of which can possibly be ascertained with any degree of certainty. Every muscular fibre is capable of contracting with a given power, which power simply must be always its absolute force; but from the construction of parts to be moved, and the application of muscles to those parts, either an increased or decreased effect is produced. It is impossible to ascertain the absolute force of a muscle because there is no one known muscle in the body that we can throw into ac- tion separately, and independently of the collateral effects of others. And, if we could, there are many whose power could not be measured by any given quantity of resistance to be overcome, so as to ascertain the power of contraction of that muscle, as, e. g. all those which simply pull bodies in a straight line : but, in those muscles which act upon the bones in the form of levers, if any could be made to act singly its power could easily be known. But whatever this power is it must be always the same; nothing can alter it excepting real weakness in the muscular fibres themselves. As we cannot separate and ascertain the absolute force of a single muscle, so it is impossible to find out the apparent force; and exactly for the same reasons that we cannot find out the absolute. The ap- parent force of circular muscles will be in a ratio proportionably to their diameters, and in those which are inserted into levers it will always be as the distance of the insertion of the muscle from the centre of motion, the angle of insertion, &c. But the relative force us not always the same, or it does not always act alone in the motion of the parts, for it is often joined with velocity, and then it may become vastly greater. But if not joined with velocity it will always be less than the absolute, as the length of lever in the resisting power is longer than in the acting one. The absolute force of a muscle will always be employed in the most simple action of the parts. The most simple action will be where a muscle passes in a straight line from some fixed point to a moveable one and by its contraction simply pulls the moveable one towards the immoveable one, sucli as many of the muscles of the os hyoides, and in many other parts of the body. As the circular muscles are commonly employed in propelling bodies, and principally fluids, they will keep up an equal power upon the body to be expelled; for, the power increasing as the fluid decreases, it is capable of throwing out the same quantity in the same time*. * It may be asked, at what point of the contraction of a muscle has it the greatest power? Or, does it contract with the same force through the whole contraction?