391 AND (ECONOMY OF WHALES. In the bottle-nose whale {Hyperoodon), where the fallopian tubes opened into the horns of the uterus, they were surrounded by pendu- lous bodies hanging loose in the horns. The fallopian tubes, at their termination in the uterus, are remark- ably small for some inches, and then begin to dilate rather suddenly; and the nearer to the mouth the more this dilatation increases, like the mouth of a French horn, the termination of which is five or six inches in diameter®. They are very full of longitudinal rugae through their whole length. The ovaria are oblong bodies about five inches in length, one end at- tached to the mouth of the fallopian tube, and the other near to the horn of the uterus^. They are irregular on their external surface, re- sembling a capsula renalis or pancreas. They have no capsula, but what is formed by the long fallopian tube. How the male and female copulate, I do not know; but it is alleged that their position in the water is erect at that time, which I can readily suppose may be true; for otherwise, if the connection is long, it would interfere with the act of respiration, as in any other position the upper surface of the heads of both could not be at the surface of the water at the same time. However, as in the parts of generation they most resemble those of the ruminating kind, it is possible they may likewise resemble them in the duration of the act of copulation; for, I believe, all the ruminants are quick in this act. Of their uterine gestation I as yet know nothing; but it is very pro- bable that they have only a single young one at a time, there being only two nipples*^. This seemed to be the case with the bottle-nose ® [The margin of this opening, in the porpoise, is entire, without fimbriated pro- cesses.] [In the poi’pesse the ovaria are attached to the ovarian ligament, and are situated half way between the expanded orifice of the fallopian tube and the extremity of the uterine horn.] [The dolphin has generally one, but sometimes two at a birth, according to Aiistotle. According to Pallas, the Beluga {Delphinus Leucas) brings forth two, but the exception to the general rule may have been observed in this case; since Fabricius describes the same species as being uniparous (Fauna Groenlandica, p. 51.). The Green- land whale brings forth a single young one in April. The spermaceti whale produces one young one every year, according to Mr. Beale (Obs. on the Sperm. Whale, 8vo, p. 36.). Mr. F. D. Bennett found in a gravid cachalot a single foetus fourteen feet in length, and six in girth; its position in the uterus was that of a bent bow. (Zool. Proceed., Dec. 1836.) When brought forth the young cachalot is usually twenty feet in length. And we may observe that the cetacea in general are remarkable for the large size of the foetus at birth. Camper describes the new -born porpoise as being half the size of the parent. (Obs. Anatomiques sur les Cetaces, p. 147.) The rudimental condition of the pelvis renders the birth easy.]