FROM NEW SOUTH WALES. 491 at their base, not becoming regularly narrower to a pointy nor with a very smooth edge, and having a small process on the concave or inner surface, near to the base. It has long whiskers from the sides of the cheeks, which begin forwards, near the nose, by small and short hairs, and become longer and stronger as they approach the eyes^. It has very much the hair of a rat, to which it is similar in colour; but near to the setting on of the tail it is of a lighter brown, forming a broad ring round it. The fore feet are shorter than the hind, but much in the same proportion as those of the rat; the hind feet are more flexible. There are five toes on the fore feet, the middle the largest, falling off on each side nearly equally; but the fore or inner toe is rather shortest; they are thin from side to side; the nails are pretty broad, laterally, and thin at their base; not very long, but sharp : the animal walks on its whole palm, on which there is no hair. The hind feet are pretty long, and have five toes; that which answers to our great toe is very short, and has no nail; the next is the longest in the whole, falling gradually off to the outer toe; the shape of the hind toes is the same as in the fore feet, as are likewise the nails ; it walks nearly on the whole foot. The tail is long, and covered with long hair, but not all of the same colour. The teeth of this creature are different from any other animal yet known. The mouth is full of teeth ; the lower jaw narrow, in comparison to the upper, more especially backwards, which allows of much broader grinders in this jaw than in the lower, and which occa- sions the grinders in the upper jaw to project considerably over those in the lower. In the middle the cuspidati oppose one another; the up- per piercers or holders go behind those of the lower ; the second class of incisors in the lower jaw overtop those of the upper, while the two first in the lower go within, or behind those of the upper. In the upper jaw, before the holders ‘ (canines)’, there are four teeth ‘ (incisors)’ on each side, three of which are pointed, the point standing on the in- ner surface; and the two in front are longer, stand more obliquely for- wards, and appear to be appropriated for a particular use^. The holders ‘ (canines)’ are a little way behind the last fore teeth, to allow those of the lower jaw to come between; they are pretty long. The cuspidati (spurious molares) on each side become longer and larger towards the grinders (true molares) ; they are points or cones placed on a broad base. ^ [Temminck describes the ears of Phascogale penicillafa as being “ arrondies par le haut.”—Loc. cit., p. 59.] ^ [“ Les moustaches des levres sont places plus pres des yeux que de nez.”—Ibid.'] ^ [This superiority of size of the two middle incisors of the two jaws is one of the characters which distinguish Phascogale from Dasyurus.']