18 OF THE SITUATION OF THE TESTIS IN THE FCETUS. as the person had all the powers and passions of a man^. In such cases nothing is to be done by art, as it is not possible to give the testicles th^ stimulus of perfection, which I believe is necessary to make them assume the disposition requisite for their descent^; and the ring of the external oblique muscle is perhaps less liable, in such instances, to al- low a portion of intestine to push down, than where the testicles have passed through it; and such persons may probably be more secure from accidents of this kind than if they had been more perfectly formed. The testicle, in changing its situation, does not always preserve a proper course towards the scrotum, there being instances of its taking another direction, and descending into the perinseum. How this is brought about is difficult to say; it may possibly be occasioned by some- thing unusual in the construction of the scrotum; or, more probably, by a peculiarity in that of the perinseum itself; for it is not easy to imagine how the testicle could make its way to the parts about the perinseum if these were in a perfectly natural state. The first instance of this kind that occurred to me was the child of a shopkeeper in Oxford-street, which I visited, in company with Dr. Garthshore, about the year 1775 ; but what became of the patient af- terwards I do not know. I have lately been consulted, in a similar case, by Mr. Hunt, a surgeon, at Burford in Oxfordshire, whose appre- hensions of what may be the consequences of a testicle remaining in the perinseum appear to be well founded. The most effectual method of obviating these will probably be to support the testicle in a situation near the groin, by the application of a bandage that may hinder its de- scent into the perinseum, by which the parts may be in time so conso- lidated as to retain it by the side of the scrotum. “ Dear Sir, “ I take the liberty of writing to you, in consequence of having met ^ [It seems remarkable, that with this experience Mr. Hunter should have formed, from inconclusive analogy, and promulgated an opinion tending to occasion so much unhappiness as that which attributes exceeding imperfection, and probable incapacity of performing their natural functions, to testes which in the human subject are retained within the abdomen. That there is nothing in such a situation which necessarily tends to impair their efficiency, is evident, from the number of animals in which they con- stantly form part of the abdominal viscera. And in those in which the testes naturally pass into a scrotum, their continuance in the abdomen, according to our author’s own ob- servation, is accompanied only with a difference of size or shape: now we may readily sup- pose that this may influence the quantity, but not necessarily the quality of the secretion.] [The case described in the paper on the vesiculae seminales, p. 23, seems to offer an exception to this rule ; the right testicle had passed through the external ring, al- though the vas deferens was impervious.]