441 OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. who feeds upon honey, and even lays up a store of honey for a wet day, yet does not feed the young with it. It is the food of the maggot of a black bee, and also of several others of the solitary kind w'ho also feed upon honey; and wasps, &c. who do not bring in such materials, do not feed themselves upon honey. We cannot suppose that the bee- bread is for the food of the old bees, when we see them collecting it in the months of June, July, &c., at whieh time they have honey in great plenty ; this substance is as common to a hive as any part belonging to the ceconomy of bees. Before they have formed five or six square inches of comb in a young hive, we shall find eggs, honey, and bee-bread; and at whatever time of the year we kill a hive, we shall find this substance ; and if a hive is short of honey and dies in the winter, we find no honey, but all the bee-bread, which was laid up in store for the maggots in the spring. They take great care of it, for it is often covered over with wax as the honey, and I believe more especially in the wdnter ; probably with a view to preserve it till wanted. In April I have found some of the cells full, others only half full. If we slit down a cell filled witli this substance, we shall commonly find it composed of layers of different colours ; some a deep orange, others a pale brown. In glass hives w^e often find that the glass makes one side of the cell, and frequently in such we shall see at once the different strata above mentioned. This is the substance which they bring in on their legs, and consists of the fa- rina of plants. It is not the farina of every plant that the bee collects, at least they are found gathering it from some with great industry, while we never find them on others; St. John’s wort is a favourite plant, but that comes late. The flower of the gourd, cucumber, &c., they seem to be fond of. What they do collect must be the very loose stuff, just ready to be blown off to impregnate the female part of the flower; and to show that this is the case, we find bees impregnate flowers that have not the male part. It is in common of a yellow co- lour, but that of very different shades, often of an orange; and wdien w’e see bees collecting it on bushes that have a great many flowers, so as to furnish a complete load, it is then of the colour of the farina of that bush. It is curious to see them deposit this substance in the cell. On viewing the hives, we often see bees with this substance on their legs, moving along on the combs, as if looking out for the cell to depo- sit it in. They wdll often walk over a cell that has some deposited in it, but shall leave that, and try another, and so on till they fix ; which made me conceive that each bee had its own cell. When they come to the intended cell, they put their two hind legs into it, with the two fore legs and the trunk out on the mouth of the neighbouring cell, and then the tail or belly is thrust down into the intended cell; they then