16 OF THE SITUATION OF THE TESTIS IN THE FCETUS. The descent of that testicle is very slov7 which is not completed be- fore birth, often requiring years for that purpose; and it sometimes never reaches the scrotum, especially the lower part of it. There is oftener I believe an inequality in the situation of the two testicles than is commonly imagined, being seldom equally low in the scrotum; and I am of opinion that the lowest is the most vigorous, having taken the lead readily, and come to its place at once. The part where it meets with the greatest difficulty in its descent is in the division of the tendon of the external oblique muscle called the ring. How far an erect position of body, the action of the abdominal muscles, and the effect produced upon the contents of the abdomen in breathing may contribute mechanically to the descent of the testicles when the natural operations of the animal economy have failed, I will not pretend to decide; but when we see these combined actions producing an un- natural descent of a portion of intestine, we may conceive that they are likewise capable of contributing to the descent of the testicle. When the testicle has remained in the cavity of the abdomen beyond the usual time, it is impossible to say whether the disposition for closing up the passage, after it has passed out, is in any degree lost or not; but when it comes down after birth, we can easily suppose a portion of in- testine or epiploon is more likely to descend and prevent the closing of the mouth of the sac, than before the child was born, when certain ac- tions had not taken place. We should therefore watch this descent of the testicle, and endeavour, by art, to procure that union which the natural powers are either not disposed to perform, or are prevented from completing by the descent of other parts : but art should not be used too soon, nor till the testicle has got a little way below the ring. As this progress is very slow, especially when the testicle is creeping through the ring, a doubt often arises whether it is better entirely to prevent its passage, or to assist it by exercise or other means; and it would certainly be the best practice to assist it, if that could be done effectually and safely. When it has got upon the outside of the tendon it can in general be easily pushed up again into the abdomen; and in these two situations it will sometimes play backwards and forwards for several years, without ever coming low enough to allow of the use of artificial means to hinder its descent, or to prevent a rupture. In this case it becomes difficult to determine what should be done; but, from what I have seen, I should be inclined to wait the descent, giving it every assistance in my power. Indeed, in all cases I would advise wait- ing with patience, for in most of those which I have seen, years have elapsed from the first appearance of the testicle under the ring of the abdominal muscle before it has reached that situation in which we may