206 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. From these experiments we may draw the following conclusions: That there is no fixed time for the leaves of any of the plants to move through its course. That they are less affected as they become accustomed to the stimu- lus, but the power of collapsing is increased (although not in the same degree), so that they do not move through the same arc. That they require a stronger or quicker stimulus to produce motion after being some time accustomed to it, which was evidently seen in comparing these with others which had not been stimulated. It may also be observed that when these plants collapse in the even- ing they have nearly the same quantity of flexion as when roughly touched at noon; but if touched after they have collapsed from the effect of the evening, they become much more bent than by the same touch at noon. This would seem to arise from a disposition to collapse in the evening, and a power of increasing that disposition and action when stimulated. Their collapsing more in the day, and erecting themselves less after a repetition of such actions, may assist in explaining the principle on which this depends. Relaxation in Vegetables, There is an action in plants which appears to be the contrary of ex- pansion ; it may be considered as a relaxation, or an action of those parts antagonizing the others which acted through the day, or at other periods, and takes place at the time these other parts cease to act. This action has hitherto been considered as analogous to sleep in animals, whereas sleep is a total loss of the sensitive principle and all the actions dependent on volition for the time, and therefore can only take place in animals endowed with sensation*. It is rather a defect in the animal than an action or the exertion of a principle. This action of relaxation is seen in the sensitive plant when the foli- oli close upwards and are kept bent by the power of action in the flex- ors, till light and some other of its attendants affect it, when the ex- tensors begin to act, and this action of the flexors ceases. The footstalk dropping down favours the idea of simple relaxation; but this only arises from the position of the plant, for if turned upside down it still bends against its own gravity®. * The polypus does not sleep. ® [The powers which produce the depression and elevation of the leaf-stalk operate in a manner precisely the reverse of the flexor and extensor muscles in animals, push- ing the moving part from, instead of pulling it towards, the fixed point. See Mayo’s Physiology, p. 9 et seq.^