ANATOMICAL DESCRIPTION OF THE 394 ANATOMICAL DESCRIPTION OF THE AMPHIBIOUS BIPES OF ELLIS, (Siren Lacertina, Linn.) By Mr. John Hunter, F.R.S.“ The tongue is broad and has very little motion. It has a bone simi- lar to that in birds, turtles, &c. On the posterior and lateral parts of the mouth are three openings on each side ; these are similar to the slits of the gills in fish, but the partitions do not resemble gills on their outer ® [This paper was read before the Royal Society June 5, 1766, and is interesting from the circumstance of its being the first which Hunter communicated to that learned body, as well as from its being the earliest contribution to the anatomy of one of the most singular tribes of animals at present in existence, viz. the Batrochia perm- nihranchiata, or true Amphibia. The sirens dissected by Hunter were brought from South Carolina in 1758, and purchased along with other subjects of natm*al history by Mr. Hunter; the specimens described by Ellis were transmitted to him by Dr. Alexan- der Gardner, of Charles Town, South Carolina. The natives call the siren “ mud- iguana." It is found in sw ampy and muddy places by the sides of pools, under the trunks of old trees that hang over the w^ater. The external description of the siren by Mr. Ellis is given in the explanation of the plate lii. p. 23. Besides the siren, Mr. Hunter also obtained two other species of perennibranchiate reptiles, dissections of which are preserved in his museum, and recorded in his manu- scripts under the names of “ Katteicayoe," (the Menopoma Alleghanniemis of Dr. Harlan) and the “ Amphibious quadruped," since particularly described by Cuvier under the name of “ Amphiuma." Types of three other genera of perennibranchiata have subsequently been described, and the whole tribe is divided into those which re- tain the external branchicE throughout life, and those which lose these vascular pro- cesses, but retain the gill apertiwes. The sirens and menobranchus of the United States, the axolotl of Mexico, and the proteus of Hungary have external fimbriated branchiae, while the amphiuma and menopoma have only the branchial arches and apertures, but not external gills. These genera are all j)erfectly distinct from each other both in their external and anatomical characters, and it is only with respect to one of them, viz. the axolotl, that any doubt still remains as to whether the external gills are permanent or not. At the period of the discovery of the siren it was natural to suppose from the ana- logy of the newt and salamander that it was a larva ,representing an immature stage of its existence, on which subject Linn^us thus cautiously expresses himself in a letter to Mr. Ellis. “ Upsal, December 27, 1765. I received Dr. Garden’s very rare tw'o-footed animal w ith gills and lungs. The animal is probably the larva of some kind of Lacerta, which I very much desire that he will particularly inquire into. “ If it does not undergo a change, it belongs to the order of Nantes, which have both lungs and gills; and if so, it must be a new' and very distinct genus, and should most probably have the name of Siren. “ I cannot possibly describe to you how much this tw o-footed animal has exercised my thoughts ; if it is a larva he will no doubt find some of them with four feet. It is not an easy matter to reconcile it to the larva of the lizard tribe, its fingers being