412 ANATOMICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE TORPEDO. of respiration. They pass along with the nerves to the electric organ, and enter with them; then they ramify in every direction into innu- merable small branches upon the sides of the columns, sending in from the circumference all around upon each partition small arteries, which ramify and anastomose upon it, and passing also from one partition to another, anastomose with the vessels of the adjacent partitions. The veins of the electric organ pass out close to the nerves and run between the gills to the auricle of the heart. The nerves inserted into each electric organ arise by three very large trunks from the lateral and posterior part of the brain. The first of these in its passage outwards turns round a cartilage of the cranium and sends a few branches to the first gill, and to the anterior part of the head, and then passes into the organ towards its anterior extremity". The second trunk enters the gills between the first and second openings, and after furnishing it with small branches passes into the organ near its middle. The third trunk, after leaving the skull, divides itself into two branches, which pass to the electric organ through the gills ; one between the second and third openings, the other between the third and fourth, giving small branches to the gill itself. These nerves having entered the organs ramify in every direction between the columns, and send in small branches upon each partition, where they are lost. The magnitude and the number of the nerves bestowed on these or- gans, in proportion to their size, must on reflection appear as extraordi- nary as the phenomena they afford. Nerves are given to parts either for sensation or action. Now if we except the more important senses of seeing, hearing, smelling, and tasting, which do not belong to the elec- tric organs, there is no part even of the most perfect animal which, in proportion to its size, is so liberally supplied with nerves; nor do the nerves seem necessary for any sensation which can be supposed to be- long to the electric organs. And wfith respect to action, there is no " [This nerve (a, fig. 2, pi. liv.) is a part of the third division of the fifth pair, and does not greatly exceed the size of the corresponding nerve in other species of the ray tribe ; it distributes branches to the mucous tubes (f fig. 1), which are fewer in number in the torpedo than in the ordinary rays, before it penetrates the electric organ. The other great fasciculi of nerves (b c d, fig. 2, pi. liv.) correspond with the pneurnogas- tric, or eighth pair of nen es ; a large branch is continued from the most posterior to the stomacli, where it is spread over the great arch. Dr. John Davy conjectures that the superfluous electricity when not requh-ed for the defence of the animal may be directed to this organ to promote digestion. In the instance of a Torpedo which he preserv ed alive for many days, and which was frequently excited to give shocks, digestion ap- peared to have been completely arrested ; when it died, a small fish was found in its stomach, much in the same state in which it Avas swallowed ; no portion of it had been dissolved.]