OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. 452 stopping at every one which contained an egg, but at no other, and giving a knock with his tail on the mouth of the cell three times; this he supposed was the mode of impregnating the eggs. The number three has always been a famous number; but it will not do where there are no males, which is the case of a hive in the spring, the time when the queen is most employed in laying eggs; which made him suppose the use of the males was to feed the maggots with their semen. It is probable that the copulation is like that of most other insects. The copulation of the humble bee I have seen, it is similar to the common fly. The sting is extended at the time, and turned up on the back, between the two animals: they are some time in this act. In the hornet it is the same. The circumstances relative to the impregnating the queen not being known, great room has been given for conjecture, which, if authors had presented as conjectures only, it would have shown their candour; but they have given, what in them were probably conceits, as facts. Of the Male Bee. The male bee is considerably larger than the labourers: he is even larger than the queen, although not so long when she is in her full state with eggs: he is considerably thicker than either, but not longer in the same proportion : he does not terminate at the anus in so sharp a point; and the opening between the two last scales of the back and belly is larger, and more under the belly than in the female. His pro- boscis is much shorter than that of the labouring bee, which makes me suspect he does not collect his own honey, but takes that which is brought home by the others; especially as we never find the males abroad on flowers, &c. only flying about the hives in hot weather, as if taking an airing; and when we find that the male of the humble bee, which collects its own food, has as long a proboscis or tongue as the female, I think it is from all these facts reasonable to suppose the male of the common bee feeds at home. He has no sting. The males, I believe, are later in being bred than the labouring bee. As they are only produced to go off with a hive, they are not so early brought forth; for in the month of April I killed a hive, in which I found maggots and chrysalises, but did not find any males among the latter: the maggots are too young for such investigation; but about the 20th of May we observed males: they are all very much of the same size. In the month of August, probably about the latter end, we may suppose they impregnate the queen for the next year, and about