425 OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. while every action is only instinctive, and w'hat they cannot avoid or alter except from necessity, not from fancy. They have been supposed to be legislators, even mathematicians; indeed, upon a superficial view there is some show of reason for such suppositions; but people have gone much further, and have filled up from their imagination every blank, but in so unnatural a way that one reads it as if it were the de- scription of a monster. Probably the best way of treating the history of this insect is only to describe what is, and the reader will immediately see where authors have been inventing; however, there are some asser- tions that should be particularly taken notice of, such as forming queen bees at pleasure. Countries that have but little variety in their seasons may have insects whose oeconomy is well ada}>ted to this uniformity, and which would not be suited to a climate whose seasons are very different; for insects of countries, whose seasons are strongly marked, as in this, have a pe- riod in their life which it is little in our power to investigate, and can scarcely be discovered but by accident, for experiments often give little assistance ; therefore we are obliged to fill up this blank by reasoning, and from analogy, where we have any. This period is principally the winter, in those insects which live through that season. Animals of sea- son are somewhat like most vegetables, while the common bee is only an animal of seasons in the common actions of life, or what may be called its voluntary actions, and therefore it is somewhat like the human species, suited to every country, which may be the reason why it is so universally an animal, for I believe bees are one of the most universe 1 animals known®; yet this may arise from cultivation, in consequence of which they- have been brought into climates where of themselves they would not have come Insects are so small and so few of them are capable of being domes- ticated, that the duration of their life is not easily ascertained; there- fore we are to rely more on circumstantial than on j)ositive or demon- strative proof, and perhaps the life of the common bee may be least in our power to know, for their numbers in the same society make it al- most impossible to be ascertained. From their forming a colony or society, which keeps stationary, the continuance of this society is known. ® [The humble bee was found by Captain Parry in Melville Island, Arctic circle.] ^ [The true honey bee {Jpis mellifica) was originally limited in its geographical range to the old world, whence it has been transported to America and other colonies, where it is now acclimated. The distinguished entomologist Latreille, on whose au- thority we state this fact, finds that the hive bee of the south and east of Europe and that of Egypt differ specifically from the Jpis mellifica of the west of Europe.]