OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. 451 she must be impregnated the same year, because she breeds the same year. The queen has' a sting similar to the working bee. Of the Number of Queens in a Hive. I believe a hive or swarm has but one queen, at least I have never found more than one in a swarm, or in an old hive in the winter; and probably this is what constitutes a hive; for when there are two queens, it is likely that a division may begin to take place. Supernumerary queens are mentioned by Riem, who asserts he has seen them killed by the labourers, as well as the males. November 18th, 1788, 1 killed a hive that had not swarmed the sum- mer before, and which was to appearance ready to swarm every day; but when I supposed the season for swarming was over, and it had not swarmed, I began to suspect that the reason why it did not was owing to there being no young queen or queens; and I found only one. This is a kind of presumptive proof that I was right in my conjecture ; un- less it be supposed, that when they were determined not to swarm, they destroyed every queen except one. In a hive that died, I found no males, and only one queen. This circumstance, that so few queens are bred, must arise from the natural security the queen is in from the mode of their society ; for although there is but one queen in a wasp’s, hornet’s, and humble bee’s nest or hive, yet these breed a great num- ber of queens ; the wasp and hornet some hundreds ; but not living in society during the winter, they are subject to great destruction, so that probably not one in a hundred lives to breed in the summer. I have said that the queen leaves off laying in the month of July ; and now she is to be impregnated by the males before they die. Mr. Riem as- serts, he has seen the copulation between the male and the female, but does not say at what season. I should doubt this; but Mr. Schirach supposes the queen impregnated without copulation. I know not whe- ther he means by this that she is not impregnated at all, and supposes, like Mr. Debraw, that the eggs are impregnated after they are laid, by a set of small drones, who pass over the cells, and thrust their tails down into the cell, so as to besmear the egg*. Mr. Bonnet does not consider it necessary that the drones should he small for this purpose, for he saw a large drone passing over the cells of a piece of comb, * Mr. Debraw, knowing the drones died in the latter end of summer or the autumn, was oliliged to suppose a small set of males, that lived through the winter, for that purpose. 2 G 2