218 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. If the blood is of any other colour the muscle will be tinged with that colour, and also in proportion to the quantity of the blood. All muscles, however, have not the colour of the blood, for many animals having red blood have their muscles almost white; and even in the human body many muscles are much redder than others. The muscles of an arm or leg are much redder than those of the stomach or intestines; those of the face are much paler than the temporal or masseter, although nearly in the same situation. The muscles of quadrupeds are not equally red, there being a great difference between those of a hare and rabbit. The difference in the colour of muscles in the same animal, and in different animals of the same order, is very remarkable, but is equally to be observed in another order of animals, viz. fowls. The blood in fowls is red; there are few, however, in which some muscles are not much redder than others, and in some birds they shall be almost wholly red, as in the black cock, while in others they shall be nearly all pale, as in the turkey. The muscles of birds are more ge- nerally pale than those of quadrupeds, from their having a smaller pro- portion of red blood, and that blood being more partially distributed. The muscles in frogs, snakes, tortoises, &c. are generally pale, from their having a still smaller quantity of red blood, and that quantity more confined to the vital parts than in birds. The muscular parts in fish are generally white, although I believe they have all red blood, but in smaller quantity than even frogs and snakes, so that the motion of red blood in them is much confined in its extent, appearing to go no further than those parts which are essential to life. The muscles of many animals of a still inferior order are generally pale ; the blood in them being not apparently of any colour, and in some almost transparent, as in the lobster, oyster, snail, &c.; and in this or- der of animals, if the blood is of any determined colour, it is generally so confined in its motion, not running minutely into parts, that they are hardly tinged with it, as in the slug, which is black, although the blood is of a milk white. The earth-worm, however, is an exception to these general observations on the more imperfect animals, for it has a great deal of red blood, which is seen through the whole body of the animal, from the external covering being pretty transparent. The red blood in a muscle is in proportion as the red blood in the animal is to the quantity of muscle ; and also in proportion to the quantity of action in the muscle and the quantity of red blood taken together. The blood in the more perfect class of animals, as man and quadru- peds, and in which class w'hales are also included, is in greater quan-