OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE 364 ture keeping up to a certain uniformity in the structure of similar ani- mals ; for the black bear in construction of parts is, in every other re- spect as well as this, like the white bear. The capsulae renales are small for the size of the animal, when com- pared to the human, as indeed they are in most animals. They are flat, and of an oval figure; the right lies on the lower and posterior part of the diaphragm, somewhat higher than the kidney; the left is situated lower down, by the side of the aorta, between it and the left kidney. They are composed of two substances, the external having the direction of its fibres or parts towards the centre; the internal seeming more uni- form, and not having so much of the fibrous appearance. The blood of animals of this order is, I believe, similar to that of quadrupeds, but I have an idea that the red globules are in larger pro- portion. I will not pretend to determine how far this may assist in keeping up the animal heat, but as these animals may be said to live in a very cold climate or atmosphere, and such as readily carries off heat from the body, they may want some help of this kind. It is certain that the quantity of blood in this tribe and in the seal is comparatively larger than in the quadruped, and therefore probably amounts to more than that of any other known animal. This tribe differs from fish in having the red blood carried to the ex- treme parts of the body, similar to the quadruped. The cavity of the thorax is composed of nearly the same parts as in the quadruped, but there appears to be some difference, and the vari- eties in the different genera are greater. The general cavity is divided into two, as in the quadruped, by the heart and mediastinum. The heart in this tribe and in the seal is probably larger in proportion to their size than in the quadruped, as also the blood-vessels, more especially the veins. The heart is inclosed in its pericardium, which is attached by a broad surface to the diaphragm, as in the human body. It is composed of four cavities*, two auricles, and two ventricles: it is more flat than in the quadruped, and adapted to the shape of the chest. The auricles have more fasciculi, and these pass more across the cavity from side to * As the circulation is a permanent part of the constitution respecting the class to wliich the animal belongs, and as the kind of heart corresponds with the circulation, these should be considered in the classing of animals. Thus we have animals whose hearts have only one cavity, others with two, three, and four cavities. simple undivided form ; and although in the manatee and rjdina the kidney presents the subdivided type of formation, yet it has a smooth unbroken external surface in the dugong, and the papillaj form two lateral series opening into a single elongated pelvis.]