ON ANIMALS PRODUCING HEAT. 154 There was a very material dilFerence in the effect between those fowls, the serrated edges of whose combs I suspected to have been frozen in the winter of 1775-6, for they must have dropped off. The only way in which I can account for this difference is, that in those fowls the parts were kept so long frozen that the unfrozen or active parts had time to inflame, and had brought about a separation of the frozen parts, treating them exactly as dead, similar to a mortified part; and that before they thawed, the separation was so far completed as to deprive them of further support. As it is confidently asserted that fishes are often frozen, and again re- turn to motion, and as I had never succeeded in any of my trials of the kind upon whole fishes, I made some experiments upon particular parts, to which I was led by having found a material difference in the result of experiments made upon the whole, and on parts of the more perfect animals. I froze the tail of a tench, as high as the anus, which became as hard as a board; when thawed, that part was whiter than common; and when it moved, the whole tail moved as one piece, and the termination of the frozen part appeared like the joint on which it moved. On the same day I froze the tails of two gold fishes till they became as solid as a piece of wood. They were put into cold water to thaw, and appeared for some days to be very well; but that part of the tails which had been frozen had not the natural colour, and the fins of the tails became ragged. About three weeks after, a fur came all over the frozen parts; their tails became lighter, so that the fishes were sus- pended in the water perpendicularly; they had almost lost the power of motion; and at last died. The water in which they were kept was New River water, shifted every day, and in quantity about ten gallons. I made similar experiments upon an order of animals still inferior, viz. common earth-worms. I first froze the whole of an earth-worm as a standard; when thawed it was perfectly dead. I then froze the anterior half of another earth-worm; but the whole died. I next froze the posterior half of an earth-worm; the anterior half continued alive, and separated itself from the dead part. From some of these experiments it appears that the more imperfect animals are capable of having their heat and cold varied very conside- rably, but not according to the degree of heat or cold of the surround- ing medium in which they can support life; for they can live in a cold considerably below the freezing point, and yet the living powers of the