XXXVll PREFACE. “ The Gall is green in both. The Kidneys are placed in what may be called the pelvis; in both are conglomerated in a particular manner; have the ureter ramifying through their whole substance, and entering into the rectum. The urine is a chalky substance in many of both, and a kind of slime in others. The Testes are situated in the abdomen in the male of both. “ The Vasa deferentia enter the rectum in both. “ The Penis is grooved in both. “ Both oviparous. Structure of Ear similar in both. “ Heart very different.” These writings fully attest the enlarged views which Hunter entertained of comparative anatomy, and of its application not only to the establishment of sound theories of the functions and relative influences of the different organic systems in the animal body, but also of a natural distribution of different ani- mals into classes arranged according to their affinities. It is in this respect that he has more especially surpassed those of his countrymen who have immediately succeeded him in the same field of inquiry, and whose labours in comparative ana- tomy have not been productive of adequate results, chiefly from being restricted to the narrower channel of their physiological application. The museum of Hunter is the chief, but not the sole depo- sitory of the dissections by which he established the general principles to which we have alluded. Hunter had passed his thirtieth year before he had collected a single preparation for himself. All that he had made before that time were added to his brother’s collection, which is now the ornament of the University of Glasgow. In commencing his independent labours in anatomy, he conceived the idea of a collection, in which the illustrations of the human organization should form a part only of a general display of all the types and modifications of animal structure, and practically he was the first who reduced the scattered facts of comparative anatomy to a connected system. When Hunter had brought his museum to an approximate