observations on the structure 366 ramifications and convolutions; and these vessels most probably ana- stomose with those of the thorax^. The subclavian artery in the piked whale, before it passes over the first rib, sends down into the chest arteries which assist in forming the plexus on the inside of the ribs^ ; I am not certain but the internal mam- mary arteries contribute to form the anterior part of this plexus. The motion of the blood in such must be very slow, the use of which we do not readily see. The descending aorta sends off the intercostals, which are very large, and give branches to this plexus; and when it has reached the abdomen, it sends off, as in the quadruped, the different branches to the viscera and the lumbar arteries, which are likewise very large for the supply of that vast mass of muscles which moves the tail. In our examination of particular parts, the size of which is generally regulated by that of the v/hole animal, if we have only been accustomed to see them in those w^hich are small or middle-sized, we behold them with astonishment in animals so far exceeding the common bulk as the whale. Thus the heart and aorta of the spermaceti whale appeared prodigious, being too large to be contained in a wide tub, the aorta measuring a foot in diameter. When we consider these as applied to ® [Tyson, wlio was the first discoverer and describer of this structure (Anatomy of a Porpesse, p. 32, pi. 2, fig. 7,4to, 1680), speaks of it as a ‘ glandulous body,’ but describes it as a cmious contexture of blood-vessels variously contorted and winding, emerging from the medulla spinalis at the holes where the nerves come out between the ribs; and he observes, “ the same substance likewise for a good thickness covered the medulla spinalis throughout.” Hunter first determined the exact nature of this structure, and that it was a reservoir of arterial blood. It is from this reservoir that the central axis of the nervous system receives its appropriate stimulus, and the powerful muscles of the tail their supply of oxygenated blood during the period of submersion and con- sequent interruption of the respiratory function. M. Breschet, in a treatise ex professo on this structure, gives some beautiful figures of it. {See Histoire Anatomigue et Phy- siologique d'un Organe de Nature vascidaire decouvert dans les Ceiaces, par G. M. Breschet; 4to, 1836.) He detected it in the DelpMnus Delphis and Delphinus Glo- biceps, and in a foetus of the Balcena Mysticetus; but in reasoning on the physiology of the great arterial reservoirs which thus seem to be common to the true Cetacea, it is necessary to bear in mind that the structure does not exist in the herbivorous Cetacea.] ^ [It also gives off external thoracics to the pectoral muscles, a subscapular branch, and one to the supraspinal fossa: these arteries supply the moving powers of the fin: the trunk then divides in two branches, which almost immediately subdivide, and form plexuses upon the humerus, which are expended in nourishing the bones and their ligaments and the enveloping integument. This disposition is but remotely analogous to the condition of the axillary artery in the slow lemurs and sloths, where a plexus is formed by a sudden subdivision of the trunk into numerous small b’l'anches, which after a brief course reunite into the common trunk, which then proceeds, as brachial arterv', to supply the muscles of the forearm and hand.]