AND (ECONOMY OF WHALES. 383 the largest, esj)ecially at its beginning; the other begins from the vestibulum. The cochlea is a spiral canal coiled within itself, and di- vided into two by a thin spiral bony plate, which is completed in the recent subject, and forms two perfect canals. In the recent subject, the foramen rotundum is lined with the mem- brane of the tympanum, which terminates in a blind end, forming a kind of membrana cochleae. The other opening, in the recent subject, communicates with the spiral turn, beyond the membranous termination of the foramen rotundum. The foramen ovale has a little projection inwards allround, on which the stapes stands ; within this is the vestibulum, which is common to the other spiral turn of the cochleae, and the semicircular canals; this canal of the cochlea (scala vestibuli) passes out first in a direction con- trary to its general course, but soon makes a turn into the spiral. It is round, and not merely a division of the cochlea into two by a septum % but has a membrane of its own, v/hich is attached to the thin bony plate, and lines that part of the cochlea in such a manner as to retain its structure when the bone is removed. The cochlea in some completes one turn and a half; in others, more^. It is not a spiral on a plane, or cylinder, but on a cone. I have already observed, that by looking in at the foramen rotundum, we see two small ridges ; the uppermost is the swell of the canal from the vestibulum just described ; the lower ridge, which is also a canal, may be observed just to pass along the foramen belonging to this canal, close to the septum between the two; a circumstance, I believe, pecu- liar to this tribe. Its beginning is close to the vestibulum, but does not open from it, and passes along the first-described spiral turn to its apex : when opened, it appears to be a canal full of small perfo- rations, probably the passages of the branches from the auditory nerve. This bony process has several perforations in it; one of them large, for the passage of the seventh pair of nerv’^es. The size of the portio mollis, before its entrance into the organ, is very large‘s, and bears no proportion to that which enters. The passage for this nerve is very wide, and seems to have an irregular blind conical, and somewhat spiral, termination ; its being spiral arises from the closeness to the point of the cochlea. In the terminating part there are a number of perforations into the * [i. e. it is a cylindrical canal, not semicylindiical as usual in quadrupeds.] ^ [In the porpesse, the number of gyrations are two and a half. Rudolph! describes two and a half gjTations in the narwhale. Rapp describes two complete gyrations in the Dclphinus Del2)his, and Pallas the same number in the Delph. Leucas.'] ^ [Tiedemann particularly notices the large size of the acoustic nerv^e in the dolphin.]