36 OF THE FREE-MARTIN. in others* ; and is to be met with, in all its gradations, from the distinct sex to the most exact combination of male and female organs. This, I fancy, happens most rarely in the human species, never having seen an instance. I can say the same of dogs® and cats, v/ith which last, how- ever, I am less acquainted ; but in the horse, ass, sheep, and black cattle it is very frequent. There is one part common to both the male and female organs of ge- neration in all animals which have the sexes distinct: in the one sex it is called the penis, in the other the clitoris; its specific use in both is to continue, by its sensibility, the action excited in coition till the pa- roxysm alters the sensation. In the female it probably answers no other purpose ; but in the male it is more complicated, to adapt it for the pur- pose of conducting and expelling the semen that has been secreted in consequence of the actions so excited. ITiough the unnatural hermaphrodite be a mixture of both sexes, and may possess the parts peculiar to each in perfection, yet it cannot pos- sess in perfection that part which is common to both. For as this com- mon part is different in one sex from what it is in the other, and it is impossible for one animal to have both a penis and clitoris, the common part must of course partake of both sexes, and consequently render the hermaphrodite so far incomplete; but these parts peculiar to each sex may be perfectly joined in the same animal, which will convey an idea of the truest hermaphroditeAlthough it may not be necessary, to con- * Quere: Is there ever, in the genera of animals that are natural hermaphrodites, a separation of the two parts forming distinct sexes ? If there is, it may account for the distinction of sexes ever having happened lobster, {Phil. Trans., xxxvi. p. 290,) in which a testis was found on that side of the body which exhibited externally the male characteristics, and an ovarium on the opposite side.] ® [For an example of hermaphroditism in a dog, see Phil. Trans., Ixxxix. p. 157.] [In a recent work on hermaphroditism, by Geoffroj St. Hilaire, a mechanical reason is assigned for the non-existence of a penis and clitoris in the same individual, viz. because both parts arise from the same points of the pelvis; but in many animals neither the one nor the other has any bony attachment, and the explanation above given, founded on the similarity of their functions, is more philosophical and satisfactory.] [The separation of the two sexual organs from one another in the same body occurs in many of that class of natural hermaphrodites which we have termed ‘ allotriandrous’; and there are many examples in the Hunterian collection showing the fact. What, there - fore, Mr. Hunter seems here to refer to is a spontaneous fission of the body in the inter- val separating the two sexual parts, so that one portion of the body shall contain the male and the other the female organs. Some annellides, as the Na'is, exhibit the phe- nomenon of spontaneous fission, but the separation never occurs so as to divide the two sexual organs from one another, and appropriate one to each division ; and were even such an occurrence to be supposed ever to take place, the application of the fact to ex- plain the occurrence of the distinct sexes in the naturally dioecious classes seems more worthy of a speculatist of the Lamarckian school than of a sober observer of Nature.]