8 OF THE SITUATION OF THE TESTIS IN THE FCETUS. the abdomen till late in life, or never at all. In the ram, when the testis is come down into the scrotum, the cremaster is a very strong muscle; and, though it be placed more inwards at its beginning, it passes down pretty much as it does in the human body, and is lost on the outside of the tunica vaginalis; but in the ram, whose testis still remains sus- pended in the abdominal cavity, I find that the cremaster still exists, though it is a weaker muscle ; and instead of passing downwards, as in the former case, it turns inwards and upwards, and is lost in the peri- toneum that covers the ligament which attaches the testis to the parietes of the abdomen, which in this state of the animal is about an inch and a half in length. In the human foetus, while the testis is retained in the cavity of the abdomen, the cremaster is so slender that I cannot trace it to my own satisfaction, either turning up towards the testis or turning down towards the scrotum. Yet, from analogy, we may con- clude that it passes up to the testicle; since in the adult we find it in- serted or lost on the lower part of the tunica vaginalis, in the same man- ner as in the adult quadruped ‘ ‘ The peritoneum, which covers the testis and its ligament or guber- naculum, is firmly united to the surfaces of these two bodies; but all around, to wit on the kidney, the psoas, the iliacus internus, and the lower part of the abdominal muscles, that membrane adheres very loosely to all the surfaces which it covers. Where the peritoneum is continued or reflected from the abdominal muscles to the ligament of the testis it passes first downwards a little way, as if going out of the abdomen, and then upwards, so as to cover more of the ligament than is within the cavity of the abdomen. At this place the peritoneum is very loose, thin in its substance, and of a tender gelatinous texture; but all around the passage of that ligament the peritoneum is considerably tighter, thicker, and of a more firm texture. When the abdominal muscles are pulled up so as to tighten and stretch the peritoneum this membrane remains loose at the passage of the ligament while it is braced or tight all around; and in that case the tight part forms a kind of border or edge around , ® [By such a pre-arrangement of the relations of the cremaster to the testis the necessity for the latter to overcome in its passage outwards the resistance of the infe- rior fibres of the transversalis abdominis and obliquus internus is obviated. It can- not reasonably be doubted that the cremaster exists, as such, in the human fcetus prior to the descent of the testis, since it is indubitably present and attached to an ab- dominal testis in animals where no mechanical cause could have operated to produce this disposition of the muscular fibres. Besides, the use of the cremaster as a supporter and compressor of the testis is obviously too important for such a connexion to have been allowed to result from the gland accidentally, as it were, pushing before it some opposing fibres of the abdominal muscles in its progress outwaids, as Carus imagines. See his Comparative Anatomy, by Gore, vol. ii. p. 347.]