44 OF AN EXTRAORDINARY PHEASANT. AN ACCOUNT OF AN EXTRAORDINARY PHEASANT. Every deviation from that original form and structure which gives the distinguishing character to the productions of Nature, may not im- properly be called monstrous. According to this acceptation of the term, the variety of monsters will he almost infinite a; and, as far as my knowledge has extended, there is not a species of animal, nay, there is not a single part of an animal body, which is not subject to an extraor- dinary formation. Neither does this appear to be a matter of mere chance; for it may “ [Mr. Hunter attempted, notwithstanding, to reduce this variety of monsters to de- finite groups, and left the following outline of a classification of monsters, in an expla- natory introduction to the extensive series of those objects in his collection: “ 1. Monsters from preternatural situation of parts. “ 2. addition of parts. , “ 3. deficiency of parts “ 4. combined addition and deficiency of parts, as in hermaphro- ditical malformation.” Licetus^, Huber", and Malacarne^ had proposed classifications of monsters prior to the time of Hunter, all of which are more or less tinctured with the superstitions of the times; thus, the tenth class in the system of Licetus is appropriated to the offspring of the illicit intercourse of demons with women: the fifteenth of Malacarne contains the brutes with human members, &c. Blumenbach, towards the end of the eighteenth century, published an arrangement of monsters which closely resembles that of Hunter; he, however, distinguishes, but without sufficient reason, unnatural hermaphrodites from monsters, and divides the latter into “ 1. Monsters by an unnatural conformation of certain parts of the body,—Fabrica aliena. “ 2. transposition of parts,—Situs mutatus. “ 3. — a deficiency of parts,—Monstra per defectum. “ 4. supernumerary parts,—Monstra per excessum." The study of the various congenital aberrations from the specific form presented in the different classes of the animal kingdom, has since been ably and successfully pur- sued by Meckel, Geoffroy St. Hilaire, Otto, Breschet, Charuet, &c., the general results of whose labours may be found in the Histoire Generale et Particuliere des Anomalies del'Organization chez VHomme et lesAnimaux,ou Traite de Teratologic,hy Isid. Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire; 8vo, 1832.] ^ Fortunius Licetus, De Monstris, ex recensione G. Blasii: Amstelodami, 16G5, 4to. 2 Observationes nonnullce de Monstris : 4to, Cassel, 1748. * “ De’ Mostri umani de’ Caretteri fondamentali su cui ne se portrebbe stabilire la Clas- sificazione,” Mem. della Soc. Ital., tom. ix. 4.