ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE PLACENTA. 65 tered the uterus it attaches itself to that coagulable lymph, by which, being covered and immediately surrounded*, there is formed a soft pulpy membrane, tiie decidua, which I believe is peculiar to the human spe- cies and to monkeys, I never having found it in any other animal. That part which covers the seed or foetus, where it is not immediately at- tached to the uterus, and likewise forms a membrane, was discovered by Dr. Hunter, and is by him called decidua reflexaf. The whole of this coagulable lymph continues to be a living part for the time ^ the vessels of the uterus ramify upon it; and where the vessels of the foetus form the placenta there the vessels of the uterus, after passing through the decidua, open into the cellular substance of the placenta, as before described. As this membrane lines the uterus and covers the seed, it is stretched out, and becomes thinner and thinner, as the uterus is dis- tended by the foetus growing larger, especially that part of it, called decidua reflexa, which covers the foetus; as there it cannot possibly acquire any new matter, except we could suppose that the foetus assisted an the formation of it. This membrane is most distinct where it covers the chorion; for where it covers the placenta it is blended with eoagula in the great veins that pass obliquely through it, more especially all round the edge, where innumerable large veins come out; but the cho- rion and decidua can be easily distinguished from one another, the de- cidua being less elastic. From the description now given, I think we are justified in supposing the placenta to be formed entirely by the foetus, which is further con- firmed by extra-uterine cases, and by the formation of the membrane in the egg, there being no living organic part to furnish them; and the “decidua we must suppose to be a production of the mother; of both which the circumstance of the decidua passing between the placenta and uterus may be considered as an additional proof. For if the vessels of the foetus branched into a part of the decidua, we might conceive the whole placenta to be formed from that exudation ; the portion of it, where the vessels had ramified like the roots of a plant, becoming thicker than the rest, and forming the placenta. If that were the case, this * This is somewhat similar to another operation in the animal (economy. If an ex- traneous living part is introduced into any cavity it will be immediately inclosed with coagulable lymph. Thus we find worms inclosed, and hydatids, that have been de- tached, afterwards inclosed ; hut in those cases this is a consequence of the pressure of the extraneous body, whereas in the uterus it is preparatory. f The placenta is certainly a foetal part, and is formed on the inside of the spongy chorion, or decidua. How far the decidua reflexa is a uterine part I do not yet know; if it is, then the ovum must be placed in a doubling of the coagulum, which forms the decidua; hut if the ovum is attached to the inside of the decidua, then the decidua re- flexa is belonging to the foetus. VOL. IV. F