CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 207 The one action is produced by the stimulus of light, the other by that of darkness; for if the sensitive plant is kept in a dark room it will keep bent, and perhaps as long as it lives; and if one part of the plant is kept in the dark and the other in the light, that in the dark will be bent, and continue so, while that in the light will expand itself. Light and darkness become stimuli to the same plant, and have much more influence over vegetables than could at first be imagined. Many plants only grow through the day, others only grow after it is dark. Sympathy in Vegetables. Sympathy is the action of one part in consequence of an application being made to another part, or action in another part. This power of action is extended to few plants, and even in these ap- pears to have little variation. It is evident in the sensitive plant; for if one of the little leaves be wounded at its termination it will collapse immediately, as also its fellow on the other side. This action runs through the whole of the rachis of the compound leaves, the leaves bend- ing regularly^in pairs. If it is a middle foliole that is wounded the same thing takes place; they all collapse towards the footstalk, but seldom towards the extreme end of the leaf, and in a little time the rachis is inflected and the whole leaf drops at the trunk. It may be remarked that a small flexion takes place towards the tip; but this principally arises from a disposition in the folioles, for a middle one ceinnot collapse without pressing or folding a little on the one next to it towards the eild of the leaf which stimu- lates it and makes it collapse. It is evident in the tendril of the vine, for these tendrils generally divide into two, near their ends : these two going out from the principal trunk in different directions, if one lays hold of any body and twines round it, the other immediately alters its direction and gradually ap- proaches the same body till it comes in contact with it, and then bends round it and encircles it. This motion, however, is very slowly per- formed. Sympathy in plants is very slow in producing its actions; the suc- cession of stimuli in them being slow, the consequent actions must also move slowly along. Plants have but one mode of sympathy, which arises from stimulus. Animals wdth no brain or nerves have but one also. Those, however, endowed with sensation have three : they have one mode from stimulus, one from sensation, and one compounded of both. Sympathy in animals, arising from stimulus only, is slow, as in plants; but sympathy from sensation is often very quick.