ON THE GROWTH OF BONES. 318 of bone in the same way in several different animals, so as to be able to examine the bones in the different stages of this process, and found that the earthy part of the living bone in contact with the dead portion was first absorbed; afterwards the animal mucilage itself, so as to form a groove between the two, which became deeper and deeper, till the dead bone was entirely detached, the dead portion itself having undergone no change ^ From these experiments he ascertained the changes which take place in bones during their growth, and the readiness with which the mate- rials of bone are absorbed; and from these facts, laid it down as an esta- blished principle, that the absorbents are the agents by means of which the bones, during their growth, are modelled as it were, and kept of the same shape. Bones, according to Mr. Hunter’s doctrine, grow by two processes going on at the same time, and assisting each other; the arteries bring the supplies to the bone for its increase; the absorbents at the same time are employed in removing portions of the old bone, so as to give to the new the proper form. By these means the bone becomes larger, without having any material change produced in its external shape**. ® [See Preparations Nos. 197 to 204 inclusive, Pathological Series.] [The difference between the Hunterian theory of the growth of bone and that of Duhamel will be readily appreciated by attending to the explanation given by Duha- mel of the phaenomena which he obseiwed during his investigations on this subject. Let us, for example, select from the number of his -ingenious and instructive experi- ments, that in w^hich he placed a ring of silver ware round the middle of the shaft of the thigh-bone of a young pigeon; and found at a subsequent period the ring in the medullary cavity of the bone, instead of embracing the exterior of the shaft, where he had placed it. It need scarcely be observ'ed that the Hunterian physiologist wmuld explain these facts by stating that the arteries of the periosteum had deposited new bone on the external surface of the ring, while the absorbents had removed the old bone in contact with the internal surface of the ring, by wdiich its relations to the osseous parietes of the femiur became reversed. But this physiological view of the phaenomena, arising out of a knowledge of the powers and actions of gi*eat and import- ant vascular systems in the frame, was wholly unsuspected by and unknown to the predecessors of Hunter. Duhamel explains the facts on mechanical principles; assu- ming that the bony layers of the shaft of the thigh-bone were expanded by the in- terposition of additional osseous matter, and that the layers were cut through in this process of expansion by the unjielding wire which he had placed around them. All his explanations bear the same mechanical character, in which processes of growth are assumed which are negatived by observation; and they are frequently vitiated by over- strained analogies, as where, in explaining the process of union in a fractured bone, he compares the periosteum to the bark of trees. But the numerous experiments of Du- hameH, which are characterized by much precision and ingenuity, well merit the at- tention of the student of physiologja] ^ [Sur le development et la crue des os. Memoires de TAcad. dcs Sciences. Paris, 1742, p. 497 ; and 1743, p. 187.]