358 OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE In the piked whale the duodenum passes down on the right side, very- much as in the human subject, excepting that it is more exposed, from the colon not crossing it. It lies on the right kidney, and then passes to the left side behind the ascending part of the colon and root of the mesentery, comes out on the left side, and getting on the edge of the mesentery becomes a loose intestine, forming the jejunum. In this course behind the mesentery it is exposed, as in most quadrupeds, not being covered by it as in the human. The jejunum and ileum pass along the edge of the mesentery downwards to the lower part of the abdomen. The ileum near the lower end makes a turn towards the right side, and then mounting upwards, round the edge of the mesentery, passes a little way on'the right, as high as the kidney, and there enters the colon or caecum. The caecum lies on the lower end of the kidney, considerably higher than in the human body, which renders the ascending part of the colon short. The caecum is about seven inches long, and more like that of the lion or seal than of any other animal I know. The colon passes obliquely up the right side, a little towards the middle of the abdomen, and when as high as the stomach crosses to the left and acquires a broad mesocolon; at this part it lies upon the left kidney, and in its passage down gets more and more to the middle line of the body. When it has reached the lower part of the abdomen it passes behind the uterus and along with the vagina in the female, be- tween the two testicles and behind the bladder and root of the penis in the male, bending down to open on what is called the belly of the animal, and in its W'hole course it is gently convoluted. In those which have no caecum, and therefore can hardly be said to have a colon, the intestine before its termination in the rectum makes the same kind of sweep round the other intestines as the colon does where there is a caecum. The intestines are not large for the size of the animal, not being larger in those of eighteen or twenty-four feet long than in the horse, the colon not much more capacious than the jejunum and ileum, and very short; a circumstance common to carnivorous animals. In the piked whale the length from the stomach to the caecum is twenty-eight yards and a half, length of caecum seven inches, of the colon to the anus two yards and three quarters. The small intestines are just five times the length of the animal, the colon with the caecum a little more than one half the length. Those parts that respect the nourishment of this tribe do not all so exactly correspond as in land animals, for in these one in some degree leads to the other. Thus the teeth in the ruminating tribe point out the kind of stomach, caecum, and colon; while in others, as the horse.