51 OF THE OVARIA. cumstances. But still we are not enabled to determine how far it de- pends on any particular property of the constitution, or of the ovarium alone. As the female, in most classes of animals, has two ovaria, I imagined that by removing one it might be possible to determine how far their actions were reciprocally influenced by each other, from the changes which by comparison might be observed to take place, either by the breeding-period being shortened, or perhaps, in those animals whose nature it is to bring forth more than one at a time, by the number pro- duced at each birth being diminished. There are two views in which this subject may be considered. The first, that the ovaria, when properly employed, may be bodies deter- mined and unalterable respecting the number of young to be produced. In this case we can readily imagine that, when one ovarium is removed, the other may be capable of producing its determined number in two different ways : one, when the remaining ovarium, not influenced by the loss of the other, will produce its allotted number, and in the same time; the other, when affected by the loss, yet the constitution demanding the same number of young each time of breeding, as if there were still two ovaria; it must furnish double the number it would have been re- quired to supply had both been allowed to remain, but must consequently cease from the performance of its function in half the time. The second view of the subject is, by supposing that there is not originally any fixed number which the ovarium must produce, but that the number is in- creased or diminished according to circumstances; that it is rather the constitution at large that determines the number; and that if one ova- rium is removed, the other will be called upon by the constitution to perform the operations of both, by which means the animal should pro- duce with one ovarium the same number of young as would have been produced if both had remained. With an intention to ascertain those points as far as I could, I was led to make the following experiment; and for that purpose gave pigs a preference to any other animal, as being easily managed, producing several at a litter, and breeding perfectly well under the confinement necessary for experiments. I selected two females of the same colour and size, and likewise a boar-pig, all of the same farrow; and, having removed an ovarium from one of the females, I cut a slit in one ear to distinguish it from the other. They were well fed and kept warm, that there might be no impediment to their breeding; and whenever they farrowed, their pigs were taken away exactly at the same age. About the beginning of the year 1779 they both took the boar; the one which had been spayed earlier than the perfect female. The distance E 2