180 OF AIR-CELLS IN BIRDS. more, and some fewer of these communications; for, in the ostrich, no air gets into the os humeri, yet it enters into every other part, as before described, and in very large quantities. In the common fowl no air ap- pears to enter any bone except the os humeri. The woodcock has no air-cells, either in the first bones of the wing or in the thigh-bones. On the other hand, in the pelican the air passes on to the ulna and ra- dius, and into those bones which answer to the carpus and metacarpus of quadrupeds®. Thus the cells of the abdomen, those surrounding the pericardium, those situated at the lower and fore part of the neck and in the axilla, those in the cellular membrane under the pectoral muscles, as well as in that which unites the skin to the body, all communicate with the lungs, and are capable of being filled with air; and again, from them the cells of the sternum, ribs, vertebrae of the back and loins, bones of the pelvis, the humeri, the ulna and radius, with the pinions and thigh- bones, can in many birds be furnished with air. It is not by the lungs alone that air is conveyed into the bones of birds, for the cells of the diploe between the two plates of the skull, in some birds, receive a considerable quantity of air by the Eustachian tube*. Of this the owl is a remarkable instance. The lower jaw of some kinds is likewise supplied with air, and often by the same canal f. * The only thing in other animals similar to this communication in birds, of the cells of bones with the external air, is that which takes place in the internal ear of quadru- peds, by means of the Eustachian tube’’. f When I wrote this account to send it to the Royal Society, I did not then know by what means this was done; for in that I said, “but by what means I do not know”; that is, I did not know whether it was conveyed by the trachea, where it passes along the neck, or the Eustachian tube. Professor Camper, when he did me the honour to call upon me, was so obliging as to take some pains to show me, in the lower jaw of the hawk, the hole where the air entered, which makes me suspect he did not understand what I had written. For after having given the marks by which such openings were particularly distinguished, it will hardly be supposed 1 could say that I did not know the hole where the air entered*^. “ [In the hornbill the air is also extended into the phalanges of the toes, and in short into every bone in the skeleton; whilst in the penguin, on the other hand, the air-cells are confined, as in reptiles, to the thoracic abdominal cavity, and not a single bone of the skeleton is permeated by the atmospheric fluid. These birds present the two e3ftremes of the condition of the respiratory apparatus described by Hunter in the present paper.] ** [Camper, besides citing the mastoid processes as an analogous structure in the mammalia, also adduces the extensive sinuses containing air in the cranium of the ele- phant. The air-cavities of tl'.e diploe of the cranial bones in the porcupine are also remarkable for their extent.] ® [In this note we have undesigned evidence that Hunter had never read the Me- moir of Camper, or he would hardly have omitted to notice the error into which the Dutch anatomi«t fells with reference to the source whence the bones of the head derive