CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 237 ferent direction. The obturator internus of the thigh and circumflexus palati are both of this kind. T he different positions of tendons shall make two muscles produce the same effect in different ways, being inserted in the opposite sides of the same joint. The gastrocnemius, which is inserted into the heel be- hind the joint of the foot, pulls the heel up, which depresses the toes. The tibialis posticus and peronei muscles, which pass in the same di- rection, and are inserted before the joint of the foot by means of their tendon passing round the joint, also pull the toes down, which raises the heel. Muscles, by the course and mode of insertion of their tendons, shall perform very differently a series of regular motions, bending some joints, and extending others. Such are the uses of the lumbricales and inter- ossei interni upon the fingers and toes; for their course is before the centre of motion in the first joint, but by winding round the second bone they get upon the back of the fingers and extend the two last joints. These, by their situation and insertion, produce an effect which could not be performed by the other flexors or extensors of the same parts. From the various formations of joints, and the different positions and insertions of the muscles or powers, the greatest force of the power is required at different periods of the motion. In all those where the power is between the centre of motion and "he resistance, the greatest action of the muscle is required at the beginning, as a smaller contraction of the muscle produces a greater effect at this time than afterwards, as in the deltoid. Where the power and weight are at the two ends and the fulcrum in the middle, as in the biceps extensor of the arm, or where the power and the fulcrum are at the two ends and the weight in the middle, as in the muscles of the tendo Achiilis, the greatest force is required in the last part of the motion. Where there is no lever, but one body moving round a centre as a pulley, which is the case in the extensors of the knee-joint, the same force is required through the whole of the motion. We may observe that the ligaments of the joints are necessarily so constructed and placed with respect to their motion as to produce an effect analogous to that of a centre-pin in a plain circular joint, in all the various situations of the centre of motion. There are few levers of the first kind in the body, on account of the unevenness in the effects of muscular contraction upon them, arising from the variation taking place in the angle of insertion of the muscle; they are therefore introduced where that is compensated by some other circumstance in the action. The motion of the body upon the thigh is a lever of this kind, and is