ON THE HEAT OF VEGETABLES. 157 standard. Another fresh leaf was taken and bent in the middle upon itself; a small shallow leaden vessel was put upon the top of the cold mixture, and the two leaves put upon its bottom; but one half of each leaf Avas not allowed to touch the vessel by the bend : the cold mixture was between 17° and 15°, and the atmosphere at 22°. The surfaces of the two leaves which were in contact with the lead were soon frozen in both; but those surfaces which rose at right angles, and were there- fore only in contact with the cold atmosphere, did not freeze in equal times; the one that had gone through this process before froze much sooner than the fresh one. The above experiment was repeated when the cold mixture was at 25°, 24°, and the atmosphere nearly the same, and with the same success ; only the leaves were longer in freezing, especially the fresh leaf. Experiment V. The vegetable juices above mentioned being frozen in the leaden vessel, the cold mixture at 28°, and the atmosphere the same, a growing fir-shoot was laid upon the surface, also a bean-leaf; and upon remaining there some minutes, they were found to have thawed the surface on which they lay. This I thought might arise from the greater warmth of these substances at the time of application; but by moving the fir-shoot to another part, we had the same effect produced. Experiment VI. A fresh leaf of a bean was exactly weighed; it was then put into the cold atmosphere and frozen. In this state it was put back into the same scale, and allowed to thaw. No alteration in the weight was produced. From the foregoing experiments it appears, first, that plants, when in a state of actual vegetation, or even in such a state as to be capable of vegetating under certain circumstances, must be deprived of their principle of vegetation before they can be frozen. Secondly, vegetables have a power within themselves of producing or generating heat; but not always in proportion to the diminution of heat by application of cold, so as to retain at all times an uniform degree of heat; for the internal temperature of vegetables is susceptible of variations to a much greater extent indeed than that of the more imperfect animals, but still within certain limits: beyond these limits the principle of vegetable, as of animal life, resists any further change. Thirdly, the heat of ve- getables varies according to the temperature of the medium in which they are, which we discover by varying that temperature, and obseiwing the heat of the vegetable. Fourthly, the expense of the vegetating powers in this case is proportioned to the necessity, and the whole ve- getable powers may be exhausted in this way. Fifthly, this power is most probably in proportion to the perfection of the plant, the natural