365 AND (ECONOMY OF WHALES. side than in many other animals ; besides, being very muscular they are very elastic, for being stretched they contract again very considerably. There is nothing uncommon or particular in the structure of the ven- tricles, in the valves of the ventricles, or in that of the arteries. The general structure of the arteries resembles that of other animals, and where parts are nearly similar the distribution is likewise similar. The aorta forms its usual curve, and sends off the carotid and subclavian arteries®. Animals of this tribe, as has been observed, have a greater proportion of blood than any other known, and there are many arteries apparently intended as reservoirs, where a larger quantity of arterial blood seemed to be required in a part, and vascularity could not be the only object. Thus we find that the intercostal arteries divide into a vast number of branches, which run in a serpentine course between the pleura and the ribs, and their muscles, making a thick substance somewhat similar to that formed by the spermatic artery in the bull. Those vessels every- where lining the sides of the thorax pass in between the ribs near their articulation, and also behind the ligamentous attachment of the ribs, and anastomose with each other. The medulla spinalis is surrounded with a network of arteries in the same manner, more especially where it comes out from the brain, where a thick substance is formed by their ® [Both the aorta and pulmonary artery are considerably dilated above their origin in the narwhal, according to Albers, Mayer, and Rapp {Cetaceen, p. 158.). In the por- poise the aorta sends otf, as usual, first the two coronary arteries, then three branches from the convexity of the arch. The first of these is the largest; it sends oif the poste- rior thoracic and then the right carotid, and lastly divides into the right subclavian and internal mammary arteries. The second branch sends otf the left carotid, subclavian, and internal mammary arteries; but the left posterior thoracic arises, as a third branch, immediately from the arch of the aorta. Notwithstanding the shortness of the neck, the common carotid, on each side, sends off a branch, as in most mammalia, before dividing into the external and internal carotids; and the subordinate branches of both these vessels form plexuses in various parts of the head, especially at the basis cranii, and around the optic nerve. The abdominal aorta lies deep in the cleft between the right and left psoae muscles. It gives off the cseliac, and close to it the superior mesenteric, then, at a greater dis- tance, a small inferior mesenteric artery; also a right and left renal artery, which, in the true Cetacea, enter the upper or anterior extremity of the kidney, and subdivides to distribute branches to the different lobules, like the stalk of a bunch of grapes. The spermatic arteries are quickly resolved into plexuses. The lumbar arteries are given off as usual in pairs; and a little anterior to the pelvic bones the aorta divides into two hypogastric arteries (which send off the umbilical arteries to the sides of the bladder), and^a middle caudal artery, which is the largest, and passes, as a continua- tion of the aortic trunk, through the arches of the inferior spines. There are no branches analogous to common iliac and crural arteries.]