AN ACCOUNT OF THE GYMNOTUS ELECTRICUS. 421 power of its electric shocks, is given by Humboldt in his Observaiions de Zoologie et d'Anatomie Comparee, vol. i. p. 49. An abstract of these observations will be found in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology, art. ‘ Animal Electricity,’ from which, towards completing the view of this interesting subject, we quote the following de- scription of the electrical organs in the Silurus or Malapterurm electricus, a fish in- habiting the rivers Nile and Niger. The electrical organs in the Silurus. “ The only organ that can be regarded as connected with the electrical function in this fish is a thick layer of dense cellular tissue, which completely surrounds the body immediately beneath the integuments. So compact is it that at first sight it might be mistaken for a deposit of fatty matter. But under the microscope it appears to be composed of tendinous fibres, closely interwoven, the meshes of which are filled with a gelatinous substance. “ This organ is divided by a strong aponeurotic membrane into tw'o circular layers, one outer lying immediately beneath the corion, the other internal, placed above the muscles. “ Both organs are isolated from the surrounding parts by a dense fascia, excepting where the nerves and blood-vessels enter. The cells or meshes in the outer organ, formed by its reticulated fibres, are rhombic in shape, and very minute, so as to require a lens to see them well. The component tissue of the inner organ is somewhat flaky, and also cellular. “ The nerves of the outer organ are branches of the fifth pair, which runs beneath the lateral line, and above the aponeurotic covering of the organ. This aponeurosis is pierced with many holes for the transmission of the nerves, which are lost within the cellular tissue of the organ. The intercostals supply the inner organ : their elec- trical branches are numerous, and remarkably fine.. The organs of the other known electrical fishes have not yet come under the notice of any anatomist. In taking a general view of these interesting organs, w'e are struck with the existence of a certain degree of analogy amongst them, and yet w'c fail to discover such resemblances as might be expected, and such as exist between the structures of other organs performing the same functions in different animals. Here w^e have tendinous membranes variously arranged, yet all so as to form a series of separate cells, filled with a gelatinous matter. But how^ great is the difference between the large columnar cell in the torpedo, full of delicate partitions, and the minute rhombic cells of the silurus! “ All, however, are equally supplied with nerves of very great size, larger than any others in the same animals, and indeed we may venture to say, larger than any nerve in any other animal of like bulk. The organs vary in diflerent fishes; first, in situa- tion, relatively to other organs. They bound the sides of the head in the torpedo, run along the tail of the gymnotus, and surround the body of the silurus: secondly, in having different sources of nervous energy: and thirdly, in the form of the cells. No other fishes have aponeuroses so extensive, or such an accumulation of gelatine and albumen in any cellular organ. Broussonet remarked that all the electrical fishes at present known to us, although all belonging to different classes, have yet certain cha- racters in common. All, for instance, have the skin smooth, without scales, thick, and pierced wdth small holes, most numerous about the head, and which pour out a pecu- liar fluid. Their fins are formed of soft and flexible rays, united by means of dense membranes. Neither the gymnotus nor torpedo has any dorsal fin; the silurus has only a small one without rays, situated near the tail. All have small eyes.”]