395 AMPHIBIOUS BIPES OF ELLIS. edges, for they have not the comb-like structure. Above* and close to the extremity of each of these openings externally, so many processes arise, the anterior the smallest, the posterior the largest; their anterior and inferior edges and extremity are serrated, or formed into fimbriae ; these processes fold down and cover the slits externally, and would seem to answer the purposes of the comb-like part of the gill in fish. At the root of the tongue, nearly as far back as these openings reach, the trachea begins much in the same manner as in birds. It passes backwards above the heart, and there divides into two branches, one going to each lobe of the lungs. The lungs are two long bags, one on each side, which begin just behind the heart, and pass back through the whole length of the abdomen, nearly as far as the anus. They are largest in the middle, and honey-combed on the internal surface through their whole length. The heart consists of one auricle and one ventri- cle. What answers to the inferior vena cava passes forwards above, * To avoid the confusion in our ideas which might arise from the use of the words anterior, posterior, upper, lower, &c., in the whole of this description the aninml is considered in its natural horizontal position, so that the head is forwards, the back upwards, &c- furnished with claws ; all the larvas of lizards that I know are without them {**di(/iiis muticis”) Then also the branchiffi or gills are not to be met with in the aquatic salamanders, which are probably the larvas of lizards. Further, the croaking noise or sound it makes does not agree with the larvas of these animals, nor does the situa- tion of the anus. So that there is no creature that ever I saw that I long so much to be convinced of the truth as to what this will certainly turn out to be.” Doctor Pockells of Brunswick, who visited the Museum of the Royal College of Sur- geons, in 1820, perceiving some specimens of Amphiuma, concluded from their having four legs and no external gills that they were the adult or perfect Siren, and Rusconi adopted this opinion without further investigation ; but Cuvier has shown that the Amphiuma differs from the Siren in its osteological structure, having in one species ten, and in another twenty-two additional vertebrae, while the construction of the cranium and other parts of the skeleton are also totally different: moreover the com- pletely ossified state of the skeleton of the Siren, without the slightest vestige of pos- terior extremities, proves it to be neither the larva of an Amphiuma or of any other known Amphibian. See Rusconi, Descr. Anat. delle larve Salamandre^ 4to, 1817 ; Bel Proteo Anffuino, 4to, 1819 ; and Amours des Salamandres, fol. 1826, p. 12. Cuvier, Recherches sur les Reptiles douteux, in Humboldt’s Obs. ZooL, 4to, 1811—1827; Osseme7is Fossiles, tom. V. pt. 2.; Mem. du Mus., tom. xiv. See also “ A Notice of a Siren Lacertina,'* kept alive at Canon Mills, Edinburgh, for more than six years, in Janiieson’s Journal, 1832, p. 298. From the observations made on this animal it appears that the branchiae are the respiratory organs most essential to its existence, and its death is supposed to have been occasioned by the fimbriae of the gills becoming completely diied and shrivelled up, in consequence of its accidentally falling out of the box of water in which it was habitually kept. It ate worms, sticklebacks, and small minnows greedily; and showed great alertness and sagacity in concealing itself most accurately beneath a floating patch of fiog-bit.]