PREFACE. XXVll physiology in Continental Europe, where the spirit of Hun- terian inquiries seems to have so long exclusively resided. But the period which has elapsed before those general laws began to be appreciated in the country where they were first detected, affords, perhaps, one of the strongest indications of the great advance which Hunter had made in physiological science. It would be a strange exception to the usual result of an ex- tensive knowledge of comparative anatomy, combined with a tendency to express in general propositions new physiological and structural truths, if the possession and application of that knowledge with that tendency had not led to some correspond- ing advance towards a natural system of zoological classification. Accordingly we find the contemporaries of Hunter ascribing to him the highest accomplishment which the zoologist can aspire to, that of discerning the natural affinities of a nondescript ob- ject ; and this in terms and on occasions which seem to imply a general admission of his possession of such attainments. When the rare quadrupeds of Australia w^ere first brought to England, presenting, as they did, to the eye of the zoologist anomalies and peculiarities not less striking than those which perplexed the botanist in the plants from the same part of the world, it was to Hunter that they were referred. There was no person,” says Dr. Shaw, “ to whom they could be given with so much propriety, he perhaps being most capable of examining accurately their structure, and making out their place in the scale of animals*.” It may not be uninteresting to contrast the sketches of sy- stems of zoological arrangement which Hunter has left, with the Linnaean method which prevailed in his time, and which con- tinued to prevail until superseded by the labours of Cuvier, specially and unremittingly directed to that end. We have al- ready seen that Hunter’s attempts to enunciate general propo- sitions respecting the nervous system led him to detect the con- dition characteristic of the molluscous subkingdom, and to speak of the animals with “ the brain in the form of a ring,” &c. as a class. In still more definite terms he describes the condition of the nervous system which characterizes the articulate Invertebrata. With respect to that higher type of the nervous system, which * Zoological Appendix to White’s Voyage to New South Wales, p. 481 of the present work.