22 ON THE GLANDS CALLED A'ESICULiE SEMINALES. have, in consequence of disease or accident, lost one or both testicles; and several subjects of this kind I have inspected after death. Persons who have had one testicle taken away will better illustrate the point in dispute than those who have been deprived of both. For it is to be pre- sumed that such men have afterwards had connexion with women, and consequently had the action of emission, which must have emptied the vesicula of the castrated side, if this had contained semen ; and, as it could not be replenished, it should have been found empty after death. We have also in such cases an opportunity of making comparative ob- servations between the vesicula of the perfect and that of the imperfect side. In the eunuch such emissions never can happen, for the testicles being gone the natural and leading stimulus is lost; therefore, if in them the vesiculse were found full after death, it might be supposed to be the semen which they had received from the testicles before castra- tion that had remained there from the time of the operation; but cas- tration being, in such cases, usually performed on children, this circum- stance should rather be considered as a proof that they secrete their own mucus. Yet it is probable the vesiculae will neither be so large nor so full in eunuchs as in the perfect man; for I am of opinion that they are con- nected with generation, and that if the constitution is deprived of that power these bags will not grow to the full size. But where only one testicle is removed its loss does not in the least affect generation, there- fore does not produce any change in the vesicula of that side from which the testicle is taken; because the vesicula does not depend upon the testicle for its secretion, but upon the constitution, and on the per- son being capable of the act of generation : therefore as one testicle is sufficient to preserve manhood, it is of course capable of keeping up the action of both those glands. A man who had been under my care, in St. George’s Hospital, for a venereal complaint, died there, and was discovered to have lost his right testicle. From the cicatrix being hardly observable it must have been removed some considerable time before his death; and the complaint for which he was received into the hospital is a convincing proof that he had connexion with women after that period. I inspected the body in the presence of Mr. Hodges, the house-sur- geon, and several of the pupils of the hospital. Upon dissecting out and examining the contents of the pelvis, with the penis and scrotum, I found that the vas deferens of the right side was smaller and firmer in its texture than the other, especially at that end next to the abdominal rings, near to the part which had been cut through in the operation. The cellular membrane surrounding the duct, on the right side, was not so loose as on the left; neither were the vessels which ramified on the