OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. 456 is thicker than the other, and they do not extend so far as the other parts. Each of these scales is composed of two parts, or scales, re- specting its length, one articulated with the other : the first of those scales (cardo) is articulated with the common base, at the articulation of the first part of the tongue, and incloses laterally the second part of the tongue, coming as far forwards as the third articulation : on the end of this is articulated the second scale (lobus), which continues the hollow groove that incloses the tongue laterally ; this terminates in a point. These scales have some hairs on their edge. On the termination of the second part is placed the true tongue, having two lateral portions or processes on each side, one within the other: the external {palpus labialis) is the largest, and is somewhat similar to the before-mentioned scales. This is composed of four parts, or rather of one large part, on which three smaller are articulated, having motion on themselves. I'he first, on wdiich the others stand, is articulated at the edges of the tongue, on the basis or termination of the last-described part of the tongue; this has hairs on its edge. A little further forwards on the edges of the tongue are two small thin processes {paraglosscc), so small as hardly to be seen with the naked eye. The middle part of all, of which these lateral parts are only ap- pendages, is the true tongue {lingua). It is something longer than any of the before-mentioned lateral portions, and is not horny as the other parts are, but what may be called fleshy, being soft and pliable. It is composed of short sections, which probably are so many short muscles, as in fish, for they are capable of moving it in all directions. The tongue itself is extremely villous, having some very long villi at the point, which act, I conceive, somewhat like capillary tubes This whole apparatus can be folded up, into a very small compass, under the head and neck. The larynx falls back into the neck, which brings the extreme end of the first portion of the tongue within the upper lip, or behind the two teeth ; then the whole of the second part, which consists of five parts, is bent down upon and under this first part, and the two last scales are also bent down over the whole, so that the true tongue is inclosed laterally by the two second horny scales, and over the whole lie the two first. The oesophagus, in all this tribe of insects, begins just at the root of ® [Mr. Kirby observes, The upper part of this tongue is cartilaginous, and remark- able for a number of transverse rings : below the middle it consists of a membrane, longitudinally folded in inaction, but capable of being distended to a considerable size. This membranous bag receives the honey, which the tongue, as it were laps from the flowers, and conveys it to the pharynx.”]