110 OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION, or husks in which the nourishment is contained, and in which it would be defended from the powers of digestion. And the third is that which diivides and bruises the food before it is received into the stomach; which mastication is of considerable service, by producing a saving in food^. The husk of the seeds of plants, although a vegetable substance, ap- pears to be indigestible in its natural state. Whether this arises from the nature of the husk itself, or from its compactness, I am not quite certain, but am inclined to suppose the last, as we find the cocoa, which is only a husk, to be digestible when ground to a powder and well boiled, We know likewise that cuticle, horn, hair, and feathers, although ani- mal substances, are not alFected, in the first instance, by the gastric juice ; yet if reduced in Papin’s digester to a jelly, that jelly can be acted upon in the stomach : we must therefore suppose that a certain natural degree of solidity in animal and vegetable substances renders them in- digestible. This compactness in the husk seems to be intended to pre- serve, while under ground, the farinaceous part of the seed, in which the living principle is placed, the husk having probably no other power of resisting putrefaction than what arises from its texture; but what- ever may be the use of the husk, it must be connected with the vege- tative process of the plant. The same purpose of preservation is probably answered by the shells of all ova. Although husks are not capable of being dissolved in the gastric juice, they allow of transudation, and that the seed is in some degree alFected by it is known by its swelling in the stomach; yet it can only take up a certain proportion of it, and that not sufficient to convert it into chyle, the gastric juice having no power of action upon the husks themselves. Therefore we see grain of all kinds, when swallowed whole, pass through entire, though swelled; and even the kernels of some nuts, as chestnuts, are not digestible when eaten raw. The essential oils of vegetables and animals are indigestible; but being soluble either in the gastric juice or chyle, they become medicinal, from their stimulating powers. The essential oil of vegetables, but more particularly that of animals, seems to pervade the very substance of those animals whose food contains much of this oil. Thus, we find sea-birds, whose constant food is fish, taste very strongly of fish; and those who live on that kind of food only during certain times of the year, as the wild duck, have that taste only at such seasons. This fact is so well known that it was hardly necessary to put it to the test of an * [Blumenbach has well suggested that the vitality of the seeds is thus destroyed and they are made subject to the influence of the gastric juice.]