208 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION MOTION IN ANIMALS. Muscles would seem to act by vibration, although in a strong healthy man they are so short as not to be observed; yet if the muscles are made to act beyond their powers they plainly vibrate, but still more plainly in weak constitutions. The weaker a muscle is, the longer would seem to be the vibrations, for if a weak person holds anything out in his hand it shakes. In paralytic cases, whenever they are put to the smallest action, the vibration becomes very long, and the less the action the shorter the vi- bration. Fear also increases the vibration in proportion as it weakens the muscled The Causes of Action in Muscles. The actions of muscles have been hitherto attributed to the nerves as a cause; the mode of action of the nerves, however, not being known, most physiologists have thought themselves obliged either to make a new hypothesis, or support an old one; in all which they make it me- chanical, depending either upon the motion of a fluid, or the vibration of a solid, or vapour; but there is not a single known fact attending the nervous system which could either give rise to, or support, these hypo- theses, except the distance between the seat of the will and a voluntary muscle; and they have consequently been such as few thinking men could adopt. As the brain and voluntaiy muscles are, with respect to our senses, in two different places, and are connected together by the nerves, it might be supposed there was some fluid in motion that would convey the im- pression to the mind, or the will of the mind to the voluntary muscles; but these informations are very probably the effects of sympathy. * [The first part of Dr. Wollaston’s Croonian Lecture for 1809 is devoted to the il- lustration of an opinion on the nature of muscular motion, corresponding with that which Hunter has above enunciated. Dr. Wollaston, as is w’ell known, was led to infer that each act of contraction, apparently single, consisted in reality of a great number of con- tractions, repeated at short intervals, by reflecting on the sound perceived upon insert- ing the extremity of the finger into the ear. This sound, which resembles that of carriages at some distance passing rapidly over a pavement, is not perceived when the force applied to stop the ear is not muscular, unless the action of some distant muscle be communicated through some medium capable of conveying its vibrations. From experiment, associated with the above observation. Dr. Wollaston concluded that the vibratory alternations recur between twenty and thirty times in a second, varying in proportion to the degree of force exerted by the muscle ; the greatest number being es- timated at thirty-five vibrations in a second, and the lowest at fifteen. The more ob- vious illustrations of this mode of muscular action, presented by the aged and infirm, are also adduced by Dr. Wollaston, who, without doubt, was quite unconscious of the conclusion previously drawn-by Hunter from the same phenomena.]