OF THE SITUATION OF THE TESTIS IN THE FOETUS. 3 and published by Dr. Hunter in his' Commentaries, to which I have added some practical remarks. “ Until the approach of birth, the testes of the foetus are lodged within the cavity of the abdomen, and may therefore be reckoned among the abdominal viscera. They are situated immediately below the kid- neys, on the fore part of the psose muscles, and by the side of the rectum, where this intestine is passing down into the cavity of the pelvis; for in the foetus, the rectum, which is much larger in proportion to the ca- pacity of the pelvis than in the full-grown subject, lies before the ver- tebrae lumborum as well as before the os sacrum. Indeed the case is pretty much the same with regard to all the contents of the pelvis; that is, their situation is much higher in the foetus than in the adult. The sigmoid flexure of the colon, part of the rectum, the greatest part of the bladder, the fundus uteri, the Fallopian tubes, &c. being placed in the foetus above the hollow of the pelvis in the common or great abdominal cavity. “ While the testis remains in the abdomen its shape or figure is much the same as in the adult, and its position or attitude the same as when it is in the scrotum ; that is, one end is placed upwards, the other down- wards ; one flat side is to the right, the other to the left; and one edge is turned backwards, the other forwards ; and the vessels enter the pos- terior edge alike in both the foetus and adult. As the testis is not so immediately inclosed in the surrounding parts while it is in the loins, its position may be a little variable, and the most natural seems to be when the anterior edge is turned directly forwards; but as the least touch of anything will throw that edge either to the right side or to the left, then the flat side of the testis will be turned forwards. It is attached to the psoas muscle all along its posterior edge, except j ust at its upper extremity; and this attachment is formed by the peritoneum, which covers the testis and gives it a smooth surface, in the same man- ner as it envelopes the other loose abdominal viscera. “ The epididymis lies along the outside of the posterior edge of the testis, as when in the scrotum, but is larger in proportion, and adheres backwards to the psoas. When the foetus is very young, the adhesion of the testis and epididymis to the psoas is very narrow, and then the testis is more loose, and more projecting; but as the foetus advances in months, the adhesion of the testis to the psoas becomes broader and tighter. “ The vessels of the testis, like those of most parts of the body, com- monly rise from the nearest larger trunks, viz. from the aorta and cava, or from the emulgents. “ The artery generally rises from the fore part of the aorta, a little B 2