77 THE SMALLPOX DURING PREGNANCY. attends the eruptions on the skin; and in those patients who die of, or die while in, the disease, where’we have an opportunity of examining them while the part is distinct, this slough is very evident. This slough is the cause of the pit after all is cicatrized; for it is a real loss of substance of the surface of the cutis; and in proportion to this slough is the remaining depression. The chickenpox comes the nearest in external appearance to the smallpox; but it does not commonly produce a slough. As there is generally no loss of substance in this case, there can be no pit. But it sometimes happens, although but rarely, that there is a pit in consequence of a chickenpock; then ulceration has taken place on the surface of the cutis, a common thing in sores. In the present case, besides the leading circumstances mentioned in the case of the mother, corresponding with the appearances on the child, and the external appearances themselves, we have in the fullest sense the third and real or principal character of the smallpox, viz. the slough in every pustule; from all which, I think, we may conclude, that the child had caught the smallpox in the womb ; or at least a disease, the effects of which were similar to no other known disease. In opening the bodies of those who had either died of, or died while under, the smallpox, I always examined carefully to see whether any internal cavity, such as the oesophagus, trachea, stomach, intestines, pleura, peritoneum, &c., had eruptions upon them or not; and never finding any in any of those cavities, I began to suspect that either the skin itself was the only part of the body susceptible of such a stimulus, or that the skin was subject to some influence to which the other parts of the body were not subject, and which made it alone susceptible of the variolous stimulus. If from the first cause, I then concluded it must be an original principle in the animal (economy. If from the second, I then suspected that external exposure was the cause; and I was the more led into this idea, from finding that these eruptions often attack the mouth and throat, two exposed parts; add to which, that we generally find the eruptions most on the exposed parts of the body, as the face, &c. With these ideas in my mind, I thought I saw the most favourable opportunity of clearing up this point. I therefore very attentively ex- amined most of the internal cavities of this child; such as the perito- neum, pleura, trachea, inside of the oesophagus, stomach, intestines, &c., but observed nothing uncommon. I have already observed, that in this child the face and extremities were the fullest, similar to what happens in common; from all which I may be allowed to draw this conclusion, that the skin is the principal part which is susceptible of the variolous stimulus, and is not affected by any external influence whatever. ^