200 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. The second kind of action is in pursuit of external influence, and arises from a compound of internal and external stimulus ; it is excited by the state of the animal or vegetable, which gives the stimulus of want, and, being completed by external stimulus, procures the proper supplies of nourishment. It produces motions of whole parts: thus we see the Hedysarum gyrans moving its lesser foliola. This is an action appa- rently similar to breathing in animals, though perhaps it does not answer the same purpose; yet there is an alternate motion in both. The cirriferous plants, or those bearing tendrils or claspers, requiring to be supported by other bodies, as the passion-flower, briony, vine, &c., stretch out their tendrils as it were at random, moving them slowl)’’ in various directions. They are to lay hold of any substance that may be within their reach that can support them, and when they come in con- tact with a body on that side where their power of motion is greatest they begin to bend in that direction, grasp it, and continue turning round it. We see motions of the same kind in the stems of the Plantce volu- bilcs; some of these turn to the left, as the Lonicera, Humulus, &c.; some to the right, as the Clitoria, Convolvulus, &c. They are directed in this course by a lateral inclination, which takes place only on one side, they having little or no power of action on the other. Those which have one mode of action pursue that principally; but if pre- vented from doing it, their action then varies. In the vine and other plants the action of the tendrils is in different directions; and they may be seen at one time stretched out on one side of the stem, and in twenty-four hours’ time on the opposite side; and some time after in the direction of the stem itself, or in the very contrary direction. These actions arise equally from stimulus; it requij^s, however, different powers of action, arising from such stimulus, to produce these effects in different plants^. The random action of the polypus is of the same kind as those of plants. It elongates itself and throws out its tenta- cula, moving them in various directions to catch food; the use of this action to the animal, however, is immediate, and therefore quicker than those above described*’. “ [In the plants of the genus Cuscuta the tendrils will only twine around other li- ving plants, which shows that the phenomena of climbing plants are not explicable sim- ply by supposing that the inclination of the extremities of the tendrils or stems towards one side is a necessarily inherent law of their growth, but that it is, as Hunter regards it, an action dependent on stimulus, which, in the case of the Cuscuta, would seem to be a species of organic affinity.] [In comparing the motions of a polype with those of a plant, the following differ- ence must be borne in mind : the motions of a plant, like those of the parts of an ani- mal after their communication with the brain has been cut off, are invariably the result of external stimulus; they follow, as it were mechanically, some appreciable change in the surrounding external circumstances or influences,—it may be alteration of tempo-