OF THE ELECTRIC PROPERTY OF THE TORPEDO. 403 charge of his numerous cylinders, in the nature of a running fire of musketry: the strong single shock may be his general volley. In the continued effect, as well as in the instantaneous, his eyes, usually pro- minent, are withdrawn into their sockets. The same experiments, performed with the same torpedos, were on the two succeeding days repeated before numerous companies of the principal inhabitants of La Rochelle. Besides the pleasure of gratify- ing the curiosity of such as entertained any on the subject, and the de- sire I had to excite a prosecution of the inquiry, I certainly wished to give all possible notoriety to facts, which might otherwise be deemed improbable, perhaps by some of the first rank in science. Great au- thorities had given a sanction to other solutions of the phaenomena of the torpedo; and even the electrician might not readily listen to as- sertions, which seemed in some respects to combat the general prin- ciples of electricity. I had reason to make such conclusions from dif- ferent conversations I had held on the subject with eminent persons both at London and Paris. It is but justice to say, that of all in that class you gave me the greatest encouragement to look for success in this research, and even assisted me in forming hypotheses, how the torpedo, supposed to be endued with electric properties, might use them in so conducting an element as water. After generally recommending to others an examination of the elec- tric powers of these animals when acting in water, I determined, be- fore I took my final leave of them, to make some further experiments myself with that particular view; since, notwithstanding the familiarity in which we may be said to have lived with them for near a month, we had never detected them in the immediate exercise of their electric faculties against other fish, confined with them in the same water, either in the circumstance of attacking their prey, or defending them- selves from annoyance; and yet that they possessed such a power, and exercised it in a state of liberty, could not be doubted. A large torpedo, very liberal of his shocks, being held with both hands by his electric organs above and below, was briskly plunged into water to the depth of a foot, and instantly raised an equal height into air ; and was thus continually plunged and raised, as quick as possible, for the space of a minute. In the instant his lower surface touched 1 the water in his descent, he always gave a violent shock, and another still more violent in the instant of quitting the water in his ascent; j both which shocks, but particularly the last, were accompanied with a ; writhing in his body, as if meant to force an escape : besides these two ' shocks from the surface of the water, which may yet be considered as I 2 D 2