OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE 370 greater on tlie external surface than the counter-pressure from within. But expiration on tlie other hand must be much more easily performed ; the natural elasticity of the parts themselves, with the pressure of the water on the external surface of the body, being greater than the resist- ance of the air within, will both tend to produce expiration without any immediate action of muscles^. The diaphragm, in these animals, appears to be the principal agent in inspiration ; and the cavity of the thorax not being entirely surrounded by bony parts, is of course less easily expanded, and the apparatus for its expansion in all directions, as in the quadruped, does not exist here. The Bloiv-hole, w Passage for the Air, As the nose in every animal that breatlies air is a common passage for the air, and is also the organ of smelling ; I shall describe it in this tribe as instrumental to both these purposes. There is a variety in some species of this animal which is, I believe, peculiar to this order; that is, the want of the sense of smelling ; none of those which I have yet examined having that sense, except the two kinds of whalebone whale : such of course have neither the olfactor}' nerves, nor the organ; therefore in them, the nostrils are intended merely for respiration; but others have the organ placed in this passage as in other animals. The membranous portion of the posterior nostrils is one canal; but when in the bony part, in most of them, it is divided into two; the spermaceti whale, however, is an exception. In those which have it divided, it is in some continued double through the anterior soft parts, opening by two orifices, as in the piked whale ; but in others, it unites again in the membranous part, making externally only one orifice, as in the porpoise, grampus, and bottle-nose. At its beginning in the fauces, it is a roundish hole, surrounded by a strong sphincter muscle, for grasping the epiglottis ; beyond this, the canal becomes larger, and opens into the two passages in the bones of the head. This part is very glandular, being full of follicles, whose ducts ramify in the sur- rounding substance, which appears fatty and muscular like the root of the tongue, and these ramifications communicate with one another, and contain a viscid slime. In the spermaceti whale, which has a single canal, it is thrown a little to the left side. ® [Professor Mayer, of Bonn, has however recently described a muscular membrane as immediately investing the lungs in the dolphin.]