OF AIR-CELLS IN BIRDS. 177 tribe of animals ; and an account of it cannot, I imagine, be unacceptable to the public. It is not my present intention to enter into minute descriptions of all tlie particular communications of this sort discoverable in birds by dis- section, but only to mention such general facts as may serve to introduce the subject into natural history, and lead to an inquiry into the purposes which this structure was intended to answer. With this view I shall endeavour to give some idea of the construction of the lungs, and of the air-receptacles in birds, occasionally remarking the circumstances in which these principally differ from ^vhat is seen in other animals. The mechanism of the lungs in birds, which renders them fit for con- veying air to different parts of the body, consists principally in certain communications. It has been asserted that birds have no diaphragm ; but this opinion must have arisen either from a want of observation, or from too confined an idea of a diaphragm ; for there is a moderately strong, but thin and transparent membrane, covering the lower surface of the lungs, and ad- hering to them, that affords insertion to several thin muscles which arise from .the inner surfaces of the ribs. The use of this part seems to be that of lessening the concavity of the lungs towards the abdomen at the time of inspiration, and thereby assisting to dilate the air-cells, for which reason it is to be considered as answering one main purpose of a dia- phragm. Besides this attachment of the lungs to the diaphragm, they are also connected to the ribs, and to the sides of the vertebrae^. Such adhesions are peculiar to this tribe of animals, and are of sin- gular use, nay, in fact are absolutely necessary in lungs like those of birds, out of which it is intended the air should find a passage into other cavities. For if the lungs were loose in the cavity of the thorax, as is the case in many other animals, the cells of the lungs could not be ex- panded, either by the depression of the diaphragm, or the elevation of the ribs; since the air rushing in to fill up the vacuum produced in the cavity of the chest by these actions would take the straight road from the trachea through the passages, and of consequence would expand no part of the lungs which lay out of that line, whereby respiration would be totally prevented, and an effect produced exactly similar to what happens in other animals when the lungs are so much wounded as to allow a free exit to the air at that part**. lette des Oiseaux sont creuses de cavites dans les<juelles Pair a la facility de sMntroduire, parce qu’elles cominuniquent avec I’organe pulmonaire, decouverte que Hunter eut I’impudeur de s’approprier quelques annees apres.” (Jourdan’s Carus, tom. i. p. xxxi.) Truly the ignorance of such an assertion can only be equalled by its impudence.] * [See Harvey, On Generation, p. 6.] ** [Ibid., p. 7.] VOL. IV. X