OF THE SITUATION OF THE TESTIS IN THE F(ETUS. '5 go not to the testis itself, but to its exterior coverings, and to the scrotum.’^—p. 75. The testicle receiving its nerves from the plexuses of the intercostal, accounts for the stomach and intestines sympathizing so readily with it and its particular sensation, and for the effects arising in the consti- tution upon its being injured. “ The epididymis begins at the outer and posterior part of the upper end of the testis, immediately above the entrance of the blood-vessels, where it is thick, round, and united to the testis. As it passes down it becomes a little smaller and more flat, and is only attached backwards to the testis, or rather indeed to its vessels ; for its anterior edge lies loose against the side of the testis forwards; and at its lower end it is again more firmly attached to the body of the testis, so that in the foetus there is a cavity or pouch formed between the middle part of the testis and the middle part of the epididymis, more considerable than is com- monly observed in full-grown subjects. As the body grows, the epi- didymis adheres more closely to the side of the testis; and its greatest part is made up of one convoluted canal, which becomes larger in size and less convoluted towards the lower end, and at last is manifestly a single tube running a little serpentine. That change happens at the lower end of the testis, and there the canal takes the name of vas de- ferens. “ The vas deferens is a little convoluted or serpentine in its whole course, but is less so as it comes nearer to the bladder; instead of run- ning upwards from the lower end of the testis, as it does w’hen the tes- ticle is in the scrotum, while that remains in the abdomen, it runs downwards and inwards in its whole course, so that it goes on almost in the direction of the epididymis, of which it is a continuation. It turns inwards from the lower end of the epididymis, under the lower end of the testis, and behind the upper end of a ligament or guberna- culum testis (which I shall presently describe) ; then it passes over the iliac vessels, and over the inside of the psoas muscle, somewhat higher than in adult bodies, and at last goes between the ureter and bladder towards the basis of the prostate gland.”—p. 77. In those animals where the testicles change their situation the cre- master muscle, which should be named musculus testis, has two very different positions in the foetus and in the adult, the first being the same as in those animals whose testicles remain through life in the cavity of the abdomen; we must therefore conclude that the same purposes are answered by this muscle in the foetus as in those animals. The use of this muscle, when the testiele is in the scrotum, appears to be evidently that of a suspensory; for I find this muscle is strong in