303 OF ABSORPTION BY VEINS. Animal Second.—Experiment I. November 13, 1758*, I opened the abdomen of a living sheep, which had eat nothing for some days, and upon exposing the intestines and mesentery we observed the lac- teals were visible, but contained only a transparent watery fluid. I made a hole in the intestine near the stomach, and by a funnel poured in some thin starch, coloured with indigo, so as to fill several convolu- tions ; then tied up the hole in the gut, and put all the bowels into the abdomen for some time. Upon taking them out after this we observed all the lacteals of that part filled with a fluid of a fine blue colour^. We * In presence of Doctors Wren, Fordyce, and Michaelson, and Messrs. Blount, Tickell, Chnrchill, Paterson, and Skeett6. ® [Martin Lister, in 1682, injected twelve ounces of the tincture of indigo into the small intestines of a living and fasting dog. At the time of the experiment there “ was not the least appearance of lacteal veins in the mesentery ” : after full three hours the mesentery w^as examined, and many lacteals were found of an azure colour; and some of the biggest of them being cut, a thick bluish chyle was seen to issue forth. (Phil. Trans., vol. xiii. p. 9.) The conclusion which Lister drew from this experiment with reference to the power of the lacteals to absorb extraneous matters along with the chyle, was opposed in his time by some writers, and it was stated “ that people may be deceived with blue tinctures, for this is the natural colour of these lacteals wiien they are almost or altogether empty." See Phil. Trans., No. 275, October 1701, p. 996. In order to try the value of this objection. Dr. Wm. Musgrave instituted the follow- ing experiments: “Feb. 1682-3. I injected into the jejunum of a dog, that had for a day before but little meat, about twelve ounces of a solution of indigo in fountain water, and after three hours, opening the dog a second time, I obsen^ed several of the lacteals of a bluish colour, which, upon stretching of the mesentery, did several times disappear, but was most easily discerned when the mesentery lay loose; an argument that the bluish colour was not properly of the vessel, but of the liquor contained in it. “ A few days after this, repeating the experiment in another company, with the so- lution of stone blue in fountain water, and on a dog that had been kept fasting thirty- six hours, I saw several of the lacteals become of a inrfect blue colour within very few minutes after the injection: for they appeared so before I could sew' up the gut. About the beginning of March following, having kept a spaniel fasting thirty-six hours, and then syringing a pint of a deep decoction of stone blue with common water into one of the small guts, and after three hours opening the dog again, I saw many of the lacteals of a deep blue colour. Several of them w ere cut, and afforded a blue liquor (some of the decoction), running forth on the mesentery. “After this I examined the ductus thoracicus (on which, together with other vessels near it, I had upon ray return made a ligature), and saw the receptaculum chyli and that ductus of a bluish colour, not so blue indeed as the lacteals, from the solution mixing in and near the receptaculum with lympha, but much bluer than the ductus uses to be, or than the lymphatics under’the liver (with which I compared it) were. I trusted not my owm eyes in any one of these experiments, but in each of them had the company ^ind assistance of several physicians, wiio all agreed with me as to the co- louring of the lacteals." (Phil. Trans., No. 275, October 1701.) The same objection, the force of which was invalidated by the experiments of Mus-