454 OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. they were only young queens, and that they became queens after a cer- tain age ; but this is not the case. They all have stings, which is an- other thing that makes them similar to the queen. From their being furnished with an instrument of defence and offence, they are endowed with such powers of mind as to use it, their minds being extremely irri-» table; so much so that they make an attack when not meddled with* simply upon suspicion, and when they do attack they always sting; and yet, from the circumstance of their not being able to disengage the sting, one should suppose they would be more cautious in striking with it. When they attack one another, they seldom use it, only their pincers: yet I saw two bees engaged, and one stung the other in the mouth, or thereabouts, and the sting was drawn from the body to which it belonged, and the one who was stung ran very quickly about with it; but I could not catch that bee to observe how the sting was situated. As they are the collectors of honey, much more than what is for their own Use, either immediately or in future, their tongue is proportionably fitted for that purpose: it is considerably longer than that of either the queen or the male, which fits them to take up the honey from the hol- low parts of flowers, of considerable depth. The mechanism is very curious, as will be explained further on. The number of labourers in a hive varies very considerably. In one hive that I killed there were 3338 In another 4472 In one that died there were 2432 That I might guess at the number of bees from a given bulk, I counted what number an alehouse pint held, when wet, and found it contained 2160 Therefore, as some swarms will fill two quarts, such must consist of near 9000 Of the Pnrts concerned in the Nourishment of the Bee. Animals which only swallow food for themselves, or whose aliment- ary organs are fitted wholly for their own nourishment, have them adapted to that use only; but in many, these organs are common for more purposes, as in the pigeon, and likewise in the bee. In this last, some of the parts are used as a temporary reservoir, holding both that which is for the immediate nourishment of the animal, and also that which is to be preserved for a future day, in the cells formerly de-