CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 199 construction it is somewhat similar to the eye; but it is obliged to run over the whole for this intelligence, whereas the eye takes in a larger scope of this intelligence at once. However, even the eye is obliged to do the same thing where the object is too large, or where it is exami- ning minutely. None of these senses are affected by a stimulus or an irritant, although cither the one or the other may be carried so far as to produce sensation. This, however, is not a necessary effect, unless the stimulus or irritant is the immediate object of sensation ; as the stimulus of light to the eye, or the irritation of too much light to the eye. These organs of sense are parts constructed for sensation, and tho^e animals that are endowed with all of them must be the most sensible; and those that are entirely deprived of them must be wholly insensible to every impression arising from the different modifications or external influence of matter. The animals which receive no intelligence from external objects have their actions arising out of immediate stimuli and irritants'^, and their consequent sympathies, which last extend to the action beyond the part of impression. The perfect animals in some instances seem also to be under some general power of external influence, not referrible to any one sense or all of them talcen together ; it is a general observation that many animal^ go into shelter before a storm comes on, and before any of the particular senses can be affected. Many people are weather-wise, as it is vulgarly called, and, like the brutes, are sometimes previously apprised of the ensuing change. Many sleep soundest in a storm, espe- cially when attended with thunder. The natural salutary actions, arising from stimuli, take place both in animals and vegetables, and may be divided into three kinds. ThQjb'st kind of action, or self-motion, is employed simply in the oeco- nomical operations, by which means the immediate functions are carried on, and the necessary operations performed, with the materials the ani- mal or vegetable is in possession of, such as growth, support, secretion, &c. The blood is disposed of by the actions of the vessels, according to their specific stimulus, producing all the above effects. The juices of a plant are disposed of according to the different actions of the sap- vessels, arising also from their specific stimulus, which is different from that of blood-vessels, but equally produces growth : but a vine will grow twenty feet in one summer, while a whale probably does not grow so much in as many years'^. “ [i. e. Of .stimuli which do not produce action through the medium of the brain.] [The insensible organic contractility of Bichat corresponds with the kind of action which Hunter here defines.]