230 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. pally where the fibres of the muscle run parallel to the direction of mo- tion ; for we shall find the tendons to which many muscles are attached longer than we could suppose necessary, from this reason singly. This, however, arises in them from the oblique manner in which the muscular fibres are placed, and the mode of their being attached to the tendon, as may he seen in the complete-penniform. Secondly, tendons and fascia are in many places substituted for bone, there not being a sufficient surface of bone for the attachment of all the muscles in an animal body ; and, by being much smaller and thinner, they exclude the necessity of bone. Thirdly, tendons and fasciae, from their flexibility, answer in many parts better than bone; for if a long process or thin lamella of bone had united the ends of the muscles to the principal bones to be moved, no motion could have been produced by the endeavour of such muscles. In many situations, where flexibility is not required, they answer better than bone, from their yielding to external or internal pressure, which bone could not have done without being liable to be broken; as in those situations where they give attachment to two muscles, and where they cover many muscles, as in the forearm. The advantage arising from the flexibility of tendon and fascia is seen in its full extent by comparing the muscles of the more perfect animals with those of the oyster, lobster, or turtle, where many of them are attached to external shells, instead of fasciae. Flexibility also allows them to vary their direction, by which means they vary the motion of the parts, as in the tendon of the biceps flexor of the forearm winding round the head of the radius : the first ac- tion of the muscle (in some positions of the bone) gives it rotation upon its axis, the second bends it upon the os humeri. Similar actions are produced by the latissimus dorsi and teres major. Fourthly, fasciae from their strength answer in many situations bet- ter than bone, for a lamella of bone of the same thickness would in many cases have been broken by the contraction of the muscle to which it was attached. Fifthly, it was necessary that some substance should be introduced Ills for about nine inches, and end in a tendon which is continued for six inches; this then divides and the muscles proceed again fleshy for about sixteen inches, when a second tendon intervenes in each between the preceding and the next fleshy portion, which is finally inserted into the thyroid cartilage, and, by a continued fascia, into the os hyoides: thus the quantity of contractile fibre is proportioned to the required extent of motion by intervening tendons ; the sterno-hyoidei being wanting, or their place supplied by the sterno-thyroidei, as in some other ruminants. The analogue of the omo-hyoideus is, in the same animal, adjusted to its office by a different and more simple modification; its origin is removed from the shoulder-blade to the nearest point (the third cervical vertebra) from which it could act with the requi- site force and extent upon the os hyoides.]