AND (ECONOMY OF WHALES. 389 The corpus cavernosum in some is broader from the upper part to the lower than from side to side; but in the porpoise has the appearance of being round, becoming smaller forwards, so as to terminate almost in a point some distance from the end of the penis*. The glans does not spread out as in many quadrupeds, but seems to be merely a plexus of veins covering the anterior end of the penis, yet is extended a good way further on, and is in some no more than one vein deep. The crura penis are attached to two bones, which are nearly in the same situation and in the same part of the pelvis as those to which the penis is attached in quadrupeds; but these bones are only for the in- sertion of the crura, and not for the support of any other part, like the pelvis in those animals which have posterior extremities, neither do they meet at the fore part, or join the vertebrje of the back^. The erectores penis are very strong muscles, having an origin and insertion similar to those of the human subject. The acceleratores muscles are likewise very strong; and there is a strong and long muscle, arising from the anus, and passing forwards to the bulb of the penis, that runs along the under surface of the urethra, and is at last lost or inserted in the corpus spongiosum. This muscle draws the penis into the prepuce, and throws that part of the penis that is behind its insertion into a serpentine form. It is common to most animals that draw back the penis into what is called the sheath, and may be called the retractor penis. In all the females which I have examined, the parts of geneiation are very uniformly the same, consisting of the external opening, the vagina, the uterus, fallopian tubes, fimbriae, and ovaria. The external opening is a longitudinal slit, or oblong opening, whose edges meet in two opposite points, and the sides are rounded off, so as * [The corpus cavernosum is remarkable for the thickness of its fibrous sheatli, which equals that of the contained erectile tissue; the fibres composing the sheath affect distinctly two directions, the external ones running longitudinally, the internal circularly.] ^ [These bones are of an elongated form, and are regarded by Cuvier as'analogous to the iliac bones ; but as they give attachment to the crura penis, and as the erectores penis arise from their whole outer and posterior surfaces, they would seem to be rather the homologues of the ischia. A strong tendon is continued, in the porpoise, from the anterior and internal extremity of each bone, descends obliquely inwards, and after the course of an inch and a half expands into a muscular belly, which joins its fellow in the mesial line behind the rectum. Below this fleshy belly on each side there is an oval, flattened, slightly concave bone. The commencement of the urethra is sur- rounded by thick capsule of muscular fibres, which arise from the inner and anterior part of the ischia, and from the inner surface of the oval bones above mentioned. These fibres seem, therefore, to correspond with Wilson’s muscle combined with the mus- cular part of the urethra. They envelope a glandular substance analogous to a prostate.]