ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE PLACENTA. 63 apparatus is provided, which at once furnishes what is sufficient for the support of the animal till it comes forth. The first of these are the viviparous, the second the oviparous animals both of which admit of great variety in the mode by which the same effect is produced*. In the first division is included the human species, which alone will engage our present attention. But before I describe this connexion, it may be necessary that the reader should understand my idea of generation : I shall therefore refer him to what I have said upon that subject in my account of the free-martinf. In the human species, the anatomical structure of the mother and embryo, relative to foetation, being well known, it will only be neces- sary fully to describe the nature of the connexion between them, which is formed by the intermediate substance called placenta. For this pur- pose we must first consider the placenta as a common part; next, the uterus as belonging to the mother, yet having an immediate connexion with the placenta, from which the nourishment of the foetus is to be de- rived, which will lead us lastly to a consideration of those peculiarities of structure by means of which the foetus is to receive its nourishment, and which likewise constitutes its immediate communication with the placenta. It is the structure of this intermediate substance, and its connexion with the child and the uterus of the mother, which have hitherto been so little understood, and without an accurate knowdedge of which it was impossible any just idea could be formed of its func- tions. The placenta is a mass lying nearly in contact with the uterus; in- deed it may in some degree be said to be in continuity with a part of its internal surface. On the side applied to the uterus the placenta is lobulated, having deep irregular fissures. It is probable, from this structure of the placenta, that the uterus has an intestine motion while in the time of uterine gestation, not an expulsive one; wffiich those lobes of the placenta allow ofi; but all these lobes are united into one uniform surface on that surface next to the child, where its um- bilical vessels ramify. When we cut into the placenta its whole sub- stance appears to be little else than a network, or spongy mass, through which the blood-vessels of the feetus ramify, and indeed seems to be principally formed by the ramifications of those vessels; it exhibits * It may be remarked here, that the oviparous admit of being distinguished into two classes, one where the egg is hatched in the belly, as in the viper, which has been com- monly called viviparous; the others, where the eggs have been first laid and then hatched, which is the class commonly called oviparous, such as all the bird tribe; and many others, as snakes, lizards, &c. t See page 34.