OF THE WOLF, JACKAL, AND DOG. 327 climate, and perhaps of food, becoming causes of variety. By continu- ing to inhabit a warm climate, this circumstance would in time lose part of its influence on the animal, and the jackal would admit of little more variety. This, however, is a point not now to be determined, it being difficult (perhaps impossible) to say where the wolf became jackal, or (what we call) dog; and, as dogs differ much from one another, what particular dog may be considered as the first remove; or whether the jackal is the intermediate link connecting the wolf and dog. In any case we may reckon three great varieties in this species, wolf, jackal, and dog; which again branch into their respective less obvious varieties. If the dog proves to be the wolf tamed, the jackal may probably be the dog returned to its wild state ; which leads to another curious question : Wliether, as animals vary from climate, cultivation, or what may be called differences in mode of living, they would return to their genuine character if allowed to go wild again in the original country ? To ascertain the original animal of a species, all the varieties of that speeies should be examined, to see how far they have the character of the genus, and what resemblance they bear to the other species of the genus: for it is natural to suppose that the original animal, or that which is nearest to it, will have more of the true character of the genus, and a stronger resemblance to the species nearest allied to it, than any of the other varieties of its own species. If we apply this to the dog, and consider the fox as a distinct species, which there is great reason to believe it is, that variety which has the greatest resemblance to the fox is to be looked upon as the original of all the others: which will prove to be the wolf. Another mode of considering this subject, which is however secondary to the above, is by supposing that all animals were at first wild; and therefore that those animals which remain wild are the original stock; and that when we find animals far removed from their originals in ap- pearance the variation takes place in consequence of cultivation, yet so that we can still trace the gradation. What gives some force to this idea is, that where the dogs have been least cultivated there they still retain most of their original character, or similarity to the wolf or the jackal, both in shape and disposition. The shepherd’s dog, all over the world, has strongly the character of the wolf or jackal j so that but little difference is to be observed, except in size and hair. That of size may perhaps take plaee under a variety of circumstances; but difference in hair is in general, although not always, influenced by climate. Thus the wolf has longer and softer hair than the jackal, because a more northern animal; while the jackal of the East, and shepherd’s dog in Portugal and Spain, have shorter and stronger hair than those of Ger-