CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 219 tity, and more loaded with red particles, than in other inferior orders®; therefore the muscles are in general redder, and the quantity of blood in this order of animals, and perhaps every other order in which they have red blood, is rendered greater by increasing the action of the muscles, the blood being driven or extended further into those parts by their in- creased action. This happens commonly in voluntary muscles only; the involuntary, being employed in uses at all times equally necessary, are even and constant in their actions. Muscles much at rest are pale, as in animals just come into the world, before the muscles have had much action, except the heart, which has been acting from the beginning; and all the muscles of a young animal, except the diaphragm, may be kept pale by keeping the animal in a state of rest*, for in that state the blood does not pass far into the muscle ; but as the animal grows up, the muscles become redder and redder, especially if they are allowed action by the animal taking exercise, and nearly in proportion to that exercise. This, however, is not universally the case ; for the natural actions of a hare and rabbit are not very different, yet the muscles of a hare are very red, and those of a rabbit pale; whereas I do not believe it pos- sible by rest alone to make a hare’s pale, although by rest they will be- come proportion ably paler f. This difference in animals so nearly allied would seem to arise from an original law in their nature; for although a hare may not have a greater quantity of motion in common, yet it is formed to be always in such a state as if it really had, that it may be constantly prepared to undergo such motion. The rabbit has no occasion for such a state of muscle, its sphere of action being much confined, and it is even not in- tended to run fast. In an inferior order of animals, where the quantity of red blood is not so great, and the destruction of voluntary action not nearly equal through the whole muscular mass, we find a great difference in the colour of muscles. A bird has two kinds of progressive motion, flying and walking. Some principally fly, others walkf, and many perform both equally. * This becomes a distinguishing mark between the hares of a barren mountainous country and a rich flat one. f Such is the method of preserving veal white, for the proportional quantity of red blood is not allowed to increase or go far from the heart. X Swimming in fowls I consider as walking, both being actions of the legs. * [From the numerous experiments of MM. Prevost and Dumas {Examen du Sang, Bibl. Univ. de Genev., t. xvii.), it would appear that the red globules and fibrine are most abundant in the blood of birds, in which respiration is most active and animal temperature highest.]