OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. 82 digestion, as being one of the most important operations of the animal oeconomy, and most obvious in its effects, supplies a number of facts to assist in ascertaining its powers, little has been hitherto made out to- wards investigating the various circumstances under which it is per- formed. The mode of dividing the food for the increase of its surface, in some animals, suggested one method of explaining the process of digestion; and the secretion of a juice, which was supposed to have the power of converting vegetable and animal matter into a fluid proper for the pur- poses of nutrition, furnished another. Both these opinions have had their advocates ; and while one party contended for a mechanical power, supposed to exist in the gizzard, the other had recourse to a chemical power, and considered fermentation as the great agent in digestion. They were, however, rather speculative philosophers than practical anatomists, and have frequently been misled with respect to the very facts and observations whose result was to decide the truth of their opinions. What, for instance, does it explain in digestion, that the force of the gizzard of a turkey is found equal to four hundred and seventy-three pounds ? Does it afford a better solution of our doubts than we should derive from determining the force of the mill that grinds the wheat into flour ? Or, on the other hand, will the most correct idea of fermentation enable us to account for the various phsenomena in the operation of digestion But we can have no very high idea of experi- ments made by men who, for want of anatomical knowledge, have not been able to pursue their reasoning beyond the simple experiment itself. The great object should have been an endeavour to discover the uni- versal agent in digestion; for the digestive organ is evidently con- structed in a different manner in different animals. The mechanical power for the division of the food is not universal; and those gentlemen who consider this power in the gizzard as the immediate cause of di- gestion, forgot that the same effect was produced in other classes of animals with a different structure of stomach, by means of the grinding teeth. Thus, while the gizzard favoured the theory of the mechanical reasoner, that idea was again destroyed by the membranous structure of the stomach in many animals, which equally supplied the chemist with arguments in favour of the process of fermentation. It is more difficult than those gentlemen imagine, to acquire on this subject information sufficiently accurate to be able to explain a process so complicated as that of digestion. There are in Nature’s operations always two obvious extremes; and the mind of man eagerly adopts that which accords with some principle to which he is attached, and with w’hich he is best acquainted, the intermediate connexions and grada- 1