71 PN THE STRUCTURE OF THE PLACENTA. founded with either of the two first; therefore it is essential to have a characteristic difference established between the two first, and the third. The invariable difference between the two first, and the abdominal cases, will be in the vessels by which the child is nourished : for the ar- teries and veins belonging to the part in which the child is contained must be enlarged; which, being the increase of a natural part, will be readily ascertained, and the nature of the case as readily determined. We may lay it down as a principle, that when the spermatic artery and veins of either side are enlarged in an extra-uterine case, that the fcetus is in the ovarium or Fallopian tube; since there are no other blood-vessels which supply these parts; and if any other system of vessels, as the mesenteric, are increased in size, while the spermatic are in a natural state, we may with equal certainty conclude the foetus to be contained in the general cavity of the belly. As this becomes the great criterion, and as the situation and time will not always allow very nice investi- gation on the spot, where the person employed has an opportunity of taking away the parts concerned, I would advise his taking along with them the aorta and vena cava, cut through above the origins of the spermatic vessels. OBSERVATIONS ON THE PLACENTA OF THE MONKEY. Monkeys always copulate backwards: this is performed sometimes when the female is standing on all-fours; and at other times the male brings her between his thighs when he is sitting, holding her with his fore paws. The female has her. regular periods for the male, but she has com- monly too much complaisance ever to refuse him. They carry this still further, for they receive the male when with young, even when pretty far gone; at least this was the case with one of which I am going to give an account. A female monkey, belonging to Mr. Endersbay, in the summer 1782, had frequently taken the male. The keeper observed that after the 21st of June she became less lively than usual, although it was not suspected that she had conceived; but some time after appearing to be bigger in the belly, it created a suspicion of her being with young. Great attention was paid to her, and great care was taken of her. She went on gradually increasing in size; and at last something was ob- served to move in her belly at particular times, and the motion could even be felt through the abdominal muscles, She became indolent, and