. OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING IN FISHES. 297 light. The moment the report was made the fish seemed to be all of one mind, for they vanished instantaneously, raising a cloud of mud from the bottom. In about five minutes afterwards they began to appear, and were seen swimming about as before. Mons. GeofFroi, who has written on this organ, considers the ray as in the class of reptiles, and with that idea has examined their organ of hearing. He is by no means clear in his description, so that it is almost impossible to follow him; yet it is but doing him justice to allow that he has discovered what is analogous to the three semicircular canals in other animals, together with their union into one cavity. He mentions the chalky substance contained in that cavity, and also the nerves; but it is by no means clear that he was acquainted with the external open- ing which leads to these canals. He says, “ The entrance of the organ of hearing (by which one would suppose he means the meatus audito- rius externus) is not easily discovered;” but that which he describes does not correspond with the real situation of the external communi- cation ; we may therefore reasonably conclude that he is describing something else. He is not more clear in his mode of reasoning on the application of the parts to produce the sense of hearing. He observes that the organ of hearing is very imperfect in this species of animals, but supposes this to be compensated by the medium in which they live, and by which sound is conveyed to them, being more dense than that of the air, by which sound is communicated to animals living on the land; and of this idea he is certainly the author. Mons. Geoffroi can- not indeed be said to have given a perfect account of the organ of hear- ing in fishes, yet on the whole he should be considered as a discoverer; for though he only made his observations on the ray, as belonging to the class of reptiles, yet as it may be properly considered of the fish kind, he has a just claim to that credit. Had I formerly been acquainted with this author’s researches and pretensions, I should not have claimed that to which I had not a prior right; nor should I have held the dis- covery of the external communication alone, an object of consequence enough to induce me to disj)ute the honour with Mons. Geoffroi. In looking over the works of the different authors who have treated of the organ of hearing in fishes, I find from a passage in Willoughby*, who published prior to Mons. Geoffroi, and indeed is quoted by him, that my claim, even to the discovery of the external opening, is not so strong as I believed it to be, as he mentions an external orifice in the skate contiguous to what he supposes the organ of hearing in that fish. If what he alludes to is really the external opening of the ear, it gives * Willughbcii Historia Piscium, Oxonii 1686, lib. iii. cap. viii.