298 OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING IN FISHES. him a prior claim to the discovery of that part of the organ, although from his account, he does not seem to have been acquainted with the organ itself; for, as in describing the external ear of the thornback, he has evidently mistaken the nose of it, of which he gives a tolerably full account, it is very obvious that he was ignorant of the opening into the ear*. Although Professor Camper published an account of the organ of hearing in fishes so late as 1774, he did not seem at that time to have been acquainted with the external opening of the ear in the ray. After giving a description of the organ of hearing in the pike, he makes some general observations on the similarity of this organ in other fishes, but excepts the shark and ray f. This exception we might suppose alluded to the auditory canal, but further on he explains what is meant by this exception, and does not mention the external opening in the ray, from which we may fairly conclude that he was not acquainted with itj. * Lil). iii. cap. xiv. f “ II est tres-vraisemblable que toutes les autres esp&ces de poissons, tant mala-' copterygii qu' acanthopterygii, aussi-bien que les hranchiostegi & les chondropterygii d’Artedi, a I’exception des squales & des raies, out Torgane de Tome construit a peu prSs de la meme fa9on; je n’excepte pas I’esturgeon, quoique M. Klein, ibid, ait donne la description du conduit auditif, page 19, figure A, Tab. 2. i ; ce poisson etant rare parmi nous, je n’ai eu occasion de Texaminer qu’une seule fois sans avoir trouve ce conduit.'’ Memoirs Etrangers de I’Academie des Sciences, 1774, tom. 6, page 190. ' J “ Au contraire, les chiens de mer, les galeis de Rondelet & les poissons qu’il a decrits, lib. XII.; les squalls d’Artedi & les raies, ont bien I’organe a peu pres de la meme composition, mais il est enferme dans une caisse tout osseuse ou cartilagineuse, ce qui ne fait pas une difference essentielie ; ils entendent done comme les eglefins,.les morues, les baudroyes & les brockets, en un mot comme tons les autres poissons non ampliibies : M. Geoffroi s’est trompe en comparant leurs organes avec celui de reptiles, tels que la vipere, les lezards, &c. qui entendent le son comme les quadrupfides, les oiseaux & les ampliibies aquatiques, savoir par le moyen de I’air & d’un tambour, com- rae j’ai dessein de le prouver dans une autre occasion.” Memoires Etrangers de I’Academie des Sciences, 1774, tom. 6, page 190.