OF THE SITUATION OF THE TESTIS IN THE FCETUS. 9 the loose double part of the peritoneum, where the testis is afterwards to pass. This loose part of the peritoneum, like the intro-suscepted gut, may, by drawing the testis upwards, he pulled up into the abdo- men, and made tight, and then there is no appearance of an aperture or passage down towards the scrotum; but when the scrotum and liga- ment are drawn downwards, the loose doubled part of the peritoneum descends with the ligament, and then there is an aperture from the ca- vity of the abdomen all around the fore part of the ligament, which seems ready to receive the testis. This aperture becomes larger when the testfs descends lower, as if the pyramidal or wedge-like ligament was first drawn down in order not only to direct but to make room for the testis which must follow it. In some foetuses I have found the aperture so large that I could push the testis into it as far as the tendon of the external oblique muscle. From this original situation within the abdomen the testis after- wards descends to its destined station in the scrotum; but it becomes difficult to ascertain the precise time of this descent, as we hardly ever know the exact age of our subject. According to the observations which I have made, it seems to happen sooner in some instances than in others; but generally about the eighth month. In the seventh month I have commonly found the testis in the abdomen ; and in the ninth I have as commonly found it in the upper part of the scrotum. The descent being thus early, and the passage being almost immediately closed, are the principal means of preventing the hernia congenita. “ At the before-mentioned period the testis moves downwards till its lower extremity comes into contact with the lower part of the abdomi- nal parietes : when the upper part of the ligament, which hitherto was within the abdomen, has sunk downwards, it lies in the passage from the abdomen to the scrotum, and in that which is afterwards to receive the testis. As the testicle passes out it in some degree inverts the situ- ation of the ligament passing down beyond it; what was the anterior surface of the ligament while in the abdomen, now becoming posterior and composing the lower and anterior part of the tunica vaginalis, on which the musculus testis is lost. This is more evident in those animals whose testicles can readily be made to pass up from the scrotum to the abdomen. The place where the ligament is most confined, and where the testis meets with most obstruction in its descent, is the ring in the tendon of the external oblique muscle ; and accordingly I think we see more men with one testis or both lodged immediately within the tendon of that muscle than who have one or both still included in the cavity of the abdomen, which I shall take notice of hereafter. '' After the testis has got quite through the tendon of the external