PREFACE, XXXVlll p. 7. and vol. i. p. 107 of the present edition of Hunter’s Works. degree of perfection*, he then ?et apart certain days, in which he exhibited and explained to some chosen minds which could respond to the conceptions of his own, his great scheme, em- bracing the demonstration of all the leading modifications of every organ of the animal body, and of the different stages which each organ undergoes in its development, to fulfil the functions it is required to perform in the highest organisms. Amongst the enlightened men who enjoyed the inestimable advantage of listening to the explanations which the founder of the collection gave of his own labours, and of their scope and tendency, were Camper, Poll, Scarpa, and the now venerable Blumenbach. Camper, as a contemporary, and in some respects a rival of Hunter, may have been less influenced in the general tenor and success of his investigations in comparative anatomy, by this circumstance, than the last named and younger naturalists and physiologists. We cannot but suppose that the spectacle of the organiza- tion of so many rare marine animals, beautifully displayed by so consummate a practical anatomist as Hunter, must have had a lasting influence on the mind of Poli; and it is not, perhaps, assuming too much to trace to this source the taste for anatomy and the stimulus to the indefatigable and minute dissections of the Mediterranean mollusca, and the magnificent illustrations of their organization, which have justly immortalized their author. In contemplating the gradational and connected series of the organs of animals, which Blumenbach must have witnessed for the first time in the museum of Hunter, that learned and ac- complished physiologist was doubtless led vividly to appre- ciate the cumulative force with which comparative anatomy urges the onward progress of physiological science when all its scattered facts are concentrated into one orderly system. In his subsequent publications of the first systematic treatise of comparative anatomy the erudition of Blumenbach supplied many of those links in the series of animal structures which Hunter derived from Nature’s original sources. In estimating, therefore, the share which Hunter had in ad- * In the year 1787. See Home’s Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, vol. i.