CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 2*25 7'he most simple muscle in an animal body is a bundle of fibres, di- stinct from end to end from all other portions, and having one deter- mined use. The muscles v^hich move the globe of the eye come the nearest to the idea of a distinct muscle; however, there are very few muscles in an animal body so unconnected with other muscles, which makes it difficult in many cases to say with certainty what may be called a distinct muscle. If we take a view of what we call muscles in an animal body, the human for instance, we shall find that no definition can be given which will answer to them all. A muscle is said to be distinct if it is so at its insertion only, although it may be connected with others at its origin, as the extensor indicis proprius. A muscle is distinct, although connected with another at its insertion, if there is a difference in the use; or although connected at its origin with one muscle, and at its insertion with another ; but where two portions of flesh are united at their insertion, both having the same use, they are considered as one muscle. So that it is the particular effect which is produced by a portion or portions of flesh which in ge- neral has made anatomists either unite or divide them into separate muscles. This, however, has not been universally followed ; for in some parti- cular muscles, in which the origin is of considerable extent, and the in- sertion but small, each part of the muscle having the power of acting separately, and producing different effects according to the parts which act, (the joint admitting of a variety of motions,) these have generally been considered as one muscle; and in such muscles, when the whole acts, it produces one general effect, as in the pectoralis major muscle. Also those muscles in which the origin and insertion are of consider- able extent, and produce different motions of the same part, yet produce one general effect when the whole acts, are considered as distinct mus- cles, as the trapezius, the broad muscles of the abdomen, &c. When a muscle has a number of insertions, and each portion moves a distinct joint, while the whole mass, in the same action, moves all these joints, it is then considered as only one muscle. Of this kind is the longissi- mus dorsi, the use of which is to erect the whole spine; but its parti- cular action (if it had any) could only be to move one or more joints, according to the number of portions in action. External Figure of Muscles, Muscles have various shapes and sizes; they are long, short, thick, round, flat. They have the fibres either in straight lines or in curved VOL. IV. Q