228 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. the moveable point, but are attached to it by a tendon, and frequently a very long one. This brings the body of the muscle, which is the heavy part, nearer to the centre or basis of the whole body, which is most able to support it; it also makes the part to be moved freer, more fit for motion, and better adapted for other purposes which may be required. Tendons and Fasciee, and their Uses. ’ In most machines constructed for motion by art, there is the machine itself, or all the different parts which are formed for motion, so disposed as to make one part when moved become the cause of motion in another, communicating it to every part of the machine ; and the moving power is superadded, and is not to be considered as being a part of any such machine. A horse, for instance, cannot be considered as a part of any machine which he moves, although he is essential to its motion. This is also the case in many parts of the more perfect animals where great variety of motion w'as necessary, parts being constructed for the purpose of motion only, having no power within themselves, but this power is superadded or applied to them, as in the extremities of many animals; but there is no known animal so mechanically constructed in all its parts as to have the power distinct from the parts to be acted upon in every part of its structure. There are in all animals parts con- structed for motion w'hich have the power of moving within themselves; those in the more perfect animals are the heart, stomach, intestines, &c. In the more simple animals all the parts of the body are composed of materials with the power of motion, so that in them the machine and power are combined in one, as in the polypus, leech, worm, &c. In the parts of the compound animal constructed for motion each part is independent of another, so that one part may move, or have its mo- tion complete, while all the other parts are at rest; but although the mechanical parts are so constructed as to have their motions independ- ent, yet the simple effect is not alw^ays produced, fox“ the powers are in many places so applied as for one power to move two, three, or more parts, as in the fingers. The same pow'er has often a retrograde effect, moving the part which was its fixed point of motion. In an animal body the machine constructed for motion is composed of bones, cartilages, &c., and the unions of these form the places for motion, called joints. The construction of the bones at those parts which constitute the joints is only such as adapts them for motion on each other, not mak- ing them become themselves powers so as to move each other, as in the machines constructed by art.