PREFACE. XXXI The third class, or Dicoilia, includes those which have two cavities in the heart, or one ventricle and one auricle, and con- sists of the gill-fish. The sharks and rays were included by Hunter in this class, but the dicoelous or bipartite structure of their heart presented no obstacle to their junction with the Am- phibia in the Linnaean arrangement. Hunter’s fourth class, or Monocoilia, cliaracterized by a heart with but one cavity or ventricle, without an auricle, is re- stricted to insects of all kinds, i. e. to the articulate animals in- cluded by Hunter in his second class according to brains. By Linnaeus the character is applied to all invertebrate ani- mals without exception. Hunter, with more truth, defines a fifth class of animals, by the name of Acardia, whose stomach and heart are the same body, as in the blubber [Medusa) and polypus.” But even with this improvement, the Cardiac ar- rangement of animals, as proposed by Hunter, is very incom- plete. The whole division of the molluscous animals is left out of the system. This did not, however, arise from a want of the knowledge of the structure of the heart in those animals. Hunter well knew the complex condition of the circulating or- gan in the cuttle-fish, a condition which, had he rigorously car- ried out his scheme of classification according to hearts, would have indicated a class above the mammalia, and to which the name of Heptacoilia might have been applied, since there are three distinct ventricles, one systemic and two pulmonic, and four auricles or venous sinuses in this and other dibranchiate cephalopods. In the snail and other gastropods Hunter had recognised a structure of the heart as complex and perfect as in fish, but having a different relation, both as regards func- tion and position, to the respiratory organ*. In still lower Mollusca Hunter had detected the existence of two distinct auricles, with one ventricle f; but his perception of the physi- ological relations of these different cavities prevented him from associating the mussel with the tortoise, on account of this tri- coelous structure of the heart. We may thus perceive amidst the defects of this system of arrangement an evident advance towards a more natural distribution of animals, especially of the On the Blood, vol. iii. p. 174. f Ibid., p. 175.