141 ON ANIMALS PRODUCING HEAT. water, gradually made warmer and warmer from 100° to 118°, and continued in that heat for some minutes, the dead part raised the thermometer to 114°, while the living raised it no higher than 102=4°. It was observed, by the person on whom the experiment was made, that after the parts had been in the water about a minute, the water did not feel hot; but on its being agitated it felt so hot that he could hardly bear it. Upon applying the thermometer to the sides of the living glans, the quicksilver immediately fell from 118° to about 104°, while it did not fall more than a degree when put close to the dead; so that the living glans cooled the surrounding water to a certain distance*. Experiment VII. The heat of the rectum in the same man was 98° and a half exactly. In the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth experiments, an internal cavity, which is both very vascular and sensible, was evidently influ- enced by external heat and cold, though only applied to the skin of the part; while in the seventh experiment another part of the same body, where external heat and cold could make little or no impression, was of the standard heat. Although it will appear, from experiment, that the rectum is not the warmest part of an animal, yet, in order to determine how far the heat could be increased by stimulating the constitution to a degree sufficient to quicken the pulse, I repeated the seventh experi- ment after the man had eaten a hearty supper and drank a bottle of Mune, which increased the pulse from 73° to 87°, and yet the thermo- meter only rose to 98° and a half. Having formerly made experiments upon dormice during the sleeping season, with a view to see if there were any alteration in the animal (economy at that time, I found among my notes an account of some which appear to our present purpose; but to be more certain of the accuracy of the former experiments, I repeated them with my new ther- mometer. Experiment VIII. In a room, in which the temperature of the air was between .50° and 60°, a small opening was made in the belly of a dormouse, of a sufficient size to admit the ball of my thermometer, which, being introduced into the belly at about the middle of that ca- vity, rose to 80°, and no higher. Experiment IX. The mouse was put into a cold atmosphere of 15° * This might furnish an useful hint respecting bathing in water, whether colder or warmer than the heat of the body: for if intended to be either colder or hotter, it will soon be of the same temperature with that of the body; therefore in a large bath the patient should move from place to place, and in a small one there should be a constant succession of water of the intended heat.