182 OF AIR-CELLS IN BIRDS. by discovering that the feathers of birds contained also a considerable quantity of air, in the very part which requires the greatest strength, and by the analogy which is observed between this mechanism in birds and what is discoverable in most kinds of fishes; for these last have air contained within their bodies, which I believe is commonly supposed to lessen their specific gravity, although this does not appear so necessary in fishes, which move in a much heavier element than birds*. But when I found that the ostrich (which is not intended to fly) was amply pro- vided with these cells; and that the common fowl, and many others of that class, which are endowed with the faculty of flying, were less liber- ally supplied; when I saw that even the woodcock, which flies and is supposed to be a bird of passage, was inferior in this respect to the * When we consider that the elevating and suspending apparatus is much smaller in fishes than in birds, we may reasonably conceive the air in them was intended as a kind of equilibrium between the fish and water; and that progressive motion was the only thing wanted in the actions of fishes. Were we to reason upon general principles alone, we should suppose that those fishes who have the largest air-bags should have their muscles of a greater specific gravity, and those fishes that have none should have the lightest flesh; therefore that the flesh of the salmon and cod, which have an air- bag, should be heavier than that of the shark, which has none. But to know how far this, which appeared to be reasonable, was a fact, I made the following experiments: Experiment I. I took a portion of muscle of the shark, cod, and salmon, of the same weight in air; and first examined how far they occupied the same space, by immersing them in water, and observing the rise or fall of the water upon each of them being se- parately immersed in it. The shark occupied the smallest space, the salmon a little more, and the cod the largest. Experiment II. I then suspended the same three portions, upon a level, in a glass vessel filled with water about two feet high, and let them all go at the same instant, to see which would fall through the water in the shortest space of time. The shark got to the bottom first, the salmon next, and the cod last. It is necessary to observe that, in both these experiments, the difference in bulk and in the times of their falling was very little, but, however, sufficient to ascertain the fact for which the experiments were instituted. To see how far the muscular flesh of birds was specifically lighter than that of a quadruped, I repeated the above experiments upon a portion of a hind, of a pigeon, and of a sheep ; but could discover no visible difference in their weight. It may be observed there are in common two situations of oil in fishes: in one it is diffused through the fish, as if the body had been steeped in it, as in the salmon, her- ring, &c. In the other it is found in the liver, as in all of the ray kind, cod, &c., and in general those that have it in one part have none in the other; however, there are some, although I believe but few, who have their oil in form of what may be called fat, viz. in flakes in the interstice of parts, as the sturgeon. The liver, in those of the ray kind, is large, and extended through the belly; therefore it might be supposed to lighten the body, from oil being lighter than water or the flesh; but we have oil in the liver of the cod, and in the salmon and herring the oil is diffused through the whole ; there- fore I am afraid we are not yet acquainted with the full effect of the air-bladder in fishes.