PREFACE. XIV organic element, and to classify, as it were, the phaenomena of which life consists. If we turn from Hunter’s researches on life to his investi- gations on another equally difficult and recondite subject in general physiology, viz. Animal, or rather. Organic Heat, we see the same exercise of the powers of the same great and ori- ginal mind. He first determines the relative extent to which the power of generating heat or resisting cold is enjoyed in the two grand divisions of organic nature, plants and animals: he next inve- stigates the degree in which that power is possessed by different classes of animals ; then the relation subsisting between that de- gree and the perfection and complexity of the organization with which the power is associated. He anticipates some modern physiologists in determining the different power of generating heat manifested by the same species at different periods of life, and advances a step further by considering the different powers of resisting cold which different parts of the, same organized body possess in relation to their respective ages and periods of formation *. He lastly analyses, so to say, the different func- tions, to determine in what degree the production of heat de- pends on their exercise ; and reciprocally, the influence of the temperature of the body upon the active and healthy mainte- nance of their functions. Throughout all this beautiful and justly celebrated inquiry we see the philosopher conscious of the extent of his powers, and of the kind of knowledge which the right exercise of those powers was adapted to acquire. We nowhere perceive a trace of a desire to establish a theory of the nature of animal heat in the abstract. Let any one compare the language of Harvey or of Willis, while expatiating on the calidum innaturriy with the following just remark: “ I shall not,” says Hunter, attempt to settle whether heat is a body or matter, or only a property of matter, which appears to me to be merely a difference in terms, for a property must belong to something f.” It is precisely in the same spirit that he conducts his re- * p. 134. t p. 137.