XXXVl PREFACE. relating to the Invertebrate Classes. It is in the definition of these latter classes, and in the determination of the wider divi- sions of the Invertebrata, which were equivalent to the entire vertebrate group, that Cuvier chiefly surpassed Hunter as a systematic zoologist. Yet, as I have before observed, Hunter rises above Linnaeus even in this department: he had seized the great character of the molluscous sub-kingdom afforded by the nervous system, and had well defined some of the subordi- nate groups, more especially that which Lamarck afterwards termed Tunicata, and which Cuvier denominates “ Acephales sans Coqmlles^' but which Hunter, more correctly, termed soft-shelled,” having perceived the analogy of their external elastic tunic to shell; and having detected, with admirable skill, the relations subsisting between the Ascidiae and Salpae in differ- ent individuals dissected by him, of which dissections there remain not only the preparations, but several beautiful de- signs, with the original descriptions*. Of Hunter’s appreciation of the progression of affinities we have an example in his sketch of the transition from the terres- trial to the aquatic Mammalia ; and I do not doubt that ere long zoologists will uniformly agree in the propriety of passing from the hippopotamus and its pachydermatous congeners to the dugong and the true Cetacea, instead of interposing the Rumi- nantia between the Pachydermata and Cetacea, as in the Cu- vierian system. Of his mode of considering the affinities of two great and equal groups. Hunter has left the following specimen, which he quaintly designates Of the similarity of the Fowl with the three-cavity-hearted gentry, called Amphibia The lungs of the fowl open into their air-cells or bags that are in the cavity of the belly. The lungs in the Amphibia are continued into the belly, are cellular at the upper part, but in most, as the snake, become smooth bags at the lower end, as it were, answering the same purpose as the abdominal bags in the fowl. The cells of the lung-part are large. “No proper Diaphragm in either; but fowls have something similar to oiief. * See Plates 5, 6, and 7, vol. i. Physiological Catalogue, j See p. 177.