ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE PLACENTA. 72 did not like to leap or perform her usual feats of activity. Towards the latter part of the time they perceived the breast and nipple to have become rather fuller, and that a kind of water could be squeezed out at the nipple. Some time before she brought forth, she became red about the hips and posteriors, which redness extended to the inside of the thighs. It being now certain that she was with young, I desired that she might be particularly attended to w'hen there were signs of ap- proaching delivery, both on her own account and that of the young one, and requested the afterbirth might be carefully preserved, as that part would assist to ascertain the mode of uterine gestation. These direc- tions were attentively followed; and when in labour it was observed that she had regular pains, that when the young one was in part come into the world, she assisted herself with her fore paws, and that it came with the hind parts first. This happened on the 15th of December 1782, in all about six months after conception; and when she brought forth her young one it showed signs of life, but died immediately, owing pro- bably to the unfavourable mode of its being brought into the world. When delivered she took the young one up, and although it was dead clasped it to her breast. The afterbirth was preserved entire, and was perfectly fit for exami- nation. It consisted of placenta, wdth the membranes and navel-string, which all very much resembled the corresponding parts in the human subject, as will now be described. The placenta had the appearance of being divided into two oblong bodies, united by their edges, each terminating in an obtuse point at the other end, which were of course at some little distance from one another. It is probable that these two points were placed towards the open- ings of the Fallopian tubes, where the uterus assumes a form resembling two obtuse horns. The two lobes above mentioned were made up of smaller ones, united closely at their edges, which were more apparent and distinct at some parts than at others. Some of these lobes were divided by fissures which seem to be derived from one centre, while there were others near the edges passing in a different direction, in which fissures are placed veins or si- nuses that receive the blood laterally from the lobes. The substance of the placenta seems to be cellular, as in the human subject: this struc- ture allows a communication to be kept up between different parts of each lobe, and the sinuses allowing of a communication between the dif- ferent lobes of which the placenta is composed, the blood passes into the fissures before it enters the veins; in which respect it differs from the human placenta. The arteries from the uterus, on the surface of the placenta, were