CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 255 CROONIAN LECTURE ON MUSCULAR MOTION, No. V. For the Year 1781. [Read before the Royal Society, June 14, by Mr. John Hunter, F.R.S.] Of the Contraction and Relaxation of Muscular Fibres, Muscular motion differs from every other motion in matter; it is a motion taking place in the component parts of a muscle, and not a change of their relative situation. It is an uniform approximation, and receding in all the parts ; the size, construction, and connexion of these are as yet not known: it is similar, as far as we can discover by our senses, to elasticity; in both cases the motion is produced in the com- ponent parts, which we are as yet unacquainted with, and only see the ultimate effect. For the better investigating this motion in muscles, we may divide the general motions in matter into four kinds. The first is the motion of whole bodies by means of an external im- pulse, the vis inertia of the body being overcome. The second is the motion from attraction of one species of matter to itself or to another species, as wholes. Of this kind is gravitation, perhaps magnetism and electricity, probably also cohesion. The third kind of motion is from chemical attraction, where, besides the attraction of whole parts, there is an elective attraction between the particles of one kind of matter and those of another, as it were drawing them out from the general mass. 'I'his can only happen when suspended in a fluid or in the form of vapour, no other form admitting of the motion of particles among themselves. Repulsion produces a similar motion among the parts. The fourth kind of motion is muscular, arising most probably from construction, and a principle in action very different from the attractions in common matter. This action and the others are equally unintelligible, the general ef- .fect alone being evident to our senses. From the effect in muscular motion, we should be inclined to suppose that there is an approximation of the parts in one direction, which in the whole produces a visible contraction. It is natural to suppose that all muscular fibres act alike; that every