464 OBSERVATIONS ON BEES.' derstand this operation. I am apt to conceive there is something in it’ distinct from simple force applied to one end of a body ; for if this was simply the case, the sting of the bee could not be made to pierce by any power applied to its base, as the least pressure bends it in any di- rection ; it is possible the serrated edges may assist by cutting their way in, like a saw. The apparatus for the poison consists of two small ducts, which are the glands that secrete the poison : these two lie in the abdomen, among the air-cells, &c.: they both unite into one, which soon enters into, or forms, an oblong bag, like a bladder of urine; at the opposite end of which passes out a duct, which runs towards the angle where the two stings meet; and entering between the two stings, is continued between them in a groove, which forms a canal by the union of the two stings to this point. There is another duct on the right of that described above, which is not so circumscribed, and contains a thicker matter, which, as far as I have been able to judge, enters along wath the other: but it is the first that contains the poison, which is a thin, clear fluid. To ascertain which was the poison, I dipped points of needles into both, and pricked the back of the hand; and those punctures that had the. fluid from the first-described bags in them grew sore and inflamed, while the others did not. From the stings having serrated edges, it is seldom the bees can disengage them ; and they immediately upon sting- ing endeavour to make their escape, but are generally prevented, as it were caught in their own trap ; and the force they use commonly drags out the whole of the apparatus for stinging, and also part of the bowels; so that the bee most frequently falls a sacrifice immediately upon having effected its purpose. Upon a superficial view one conceives that the first intention of the bee having a sting is evident; one sees it has property to defend, and that therefore it is fitted for defence : but why it should naturally fall a sacrifice in its own defence, does not so readily appear : besides, all bees have stings, although all bees have not pro- perty to defend, and therefore are not under the same necessity of being so provided. Probably its having a sting to use was sufficient for na- ture to defend the bee without using it liberally; and the loss of a bee or two, when they did sting, was of no consequence; for it is seldom that more die. I have now carried the operations of a hive, or the oeconomy of the bee, completely round the year; in which time they revolve to the first point we set out at, and the continuance is only a repetition of the same revolutions as I have now described: but those revolutions occa- sion a series of effects in the comb, which effects in time produce varia- tions in the life of the hive. Besides, there are observations that have