OF THE ELECTRIC PROPERTY OF THE TORPEDO. 407 resembles the charged phial in that characteristic point of a reciproca- tion between its two surfaces. Their effects are transmitted by the same mediums; than which there is not perhaps a surer criterion to determine the identity of subtile matter : they besides occasion the same impression on our nerves. Like effects have like causes. But it may be objected, that the effects of the torpedo, and of the charged phial, are not similar in all their circumstances ; that the charged phial occa- sions attractive or repulsive dispositions in neighbouring bodies; and that its discharge is obtained through a portion of air, and is accompa- nied with light and sound; nothing of which occurs with respect to the torpedo. The inaction of the electricity of the animal in these particulars, whilst its elastic force is so great as to transmit the effect through an extensive circuit and in its course to communicate a shock, may be a new phsenomenon, but is no ways repugnant to the laws of electricity, for here too the operations of the animal may be imitated by art. The same quantity of electric matter, according as it is used in a dense or rare state, will produce the different consequences. For example, a small phial, whose coated surface measures only six square inches, will, on being highly charged, contain a dense electricity capable of forcing a passage through an inch of air, and afford the phgenomena of light, sound, attraction, and repulsion. But if the quantity condensed in this phial be made rare by communicating it to three large connected jars, whose coated surfaces shall form together an area four hundred times larger than that of the phial (I instance these jars because they are such as I use); it will, thus dilated, yield all the negative phseno- mena, if I may so call them, of the torpedo ; it will not now pass the hundredth part of that inch of air, which in its condensed state it sprung through with ease; it will now refuse the minute intersection in the strip of tinfoil; the spark and its attendant sound, even the at- traction or repulsion of light bodies, will now be wanting ; nor will a point brought however near, if not in contact, be able to draw off the charge; and yet, with this diminished elasticity, the electric matter will, to effect its equilibrium, instantly run through a considerable cir- cuit of different conductors, perfectly continuous, and make us sensible of an impulse in its passage. Let me here remark, that the sagacity of Mr. Cavendish in devising and his address in executing electrical experiments, led him the first to experience with artificial electricity, that a shock could be received from a charge which was unable to force a passage through the least space of air. But after the discovery that a large area of rare electricity would