AND CKCONOMY OF WHALES. 355 ferent in size in different parts of the same mouth, more especially in the large whalebone whale, whose upper jaw does not pass parallel upon the under, but makes an arch, the semidiameter of which is about one fourth of the length of the jaw. The head in my possession is nineteen feet long, the semidiameter not quite five feet; if this pro- portion is preserved, those whales which have whalebone fifteen feet long must be of an immense size. These plates are placed in several rows, encompassing the outer skirts of the upper jaw, similar to teeth in other animals. They stand parallel to each other, having one edge towards the circumference of the mouth, the other towards the centre or cavity. They are placed near together in the piked whale, not being a quarter of an inch asun- der where at the greatest distance, yet differing in this respect in dif- ferent parts of the same mouth ; but in the great whale the distances are more considerable. The outer row is composed of the longest plates; and these are in proportion to the different distances between the two jaws, some being fourteen or fifteen feet long, and twelve or fifteen inches broad; but towards the anterior and posterior part of the mouth, they are very short; they rise for half a foot or more, nearly of equal breadths, and afterwards shelve off from their inner side until they come near to a point at the out^r; the exterior of the inner rows are the longest, cor- responding to the termination of the declivity of the outer, and become shorter and shorter till they hardly rise above the gum. The inner rows are closer than the outer, and rise almost perpendi- cularly from the gum, being longitudinally straight, and have less of the declivity than the outer. The plates of the outer row laterally are not quite flat, but make a serpentine line ; more especially in the piked whale the outer edge is thicker than the inner. All round the line made by their outer edges, runs a small white bead, which is formed along with the whalebone, and wears down with it. The smaller plates are nearly of an equal thickness upon both edges. In all of them, the termination is in a kind of hair, as if the plate was split into innumerable small parts, the exterior being the longest and strongest. The two sides of the mouth composed of these rows meet nearly in a point at the tip of the jaw, and spread or recede laterally from each other as they pass back; and at their posterior ends, in the piked whale, they make a sweep inwards, and come very near each other, just before the opening of the oesophagus. In the piked whale, there were above three hundred in the outer rows on each side of the mouth. Each layer terminates in an oblique surface, which obliquity inclines to the roof of the mouth, answ^ering to the gradual diminution of their 2 a2