AND CECONOMY OF WHALES. 361 fibres. The intestinal canal of the porpoise has several longitu- dinal folds of the inner coat passing along it through the whole of its length. In the bottle-nose the inner coat, through nearly the whole track of the intestine, is thrown into large cells, and these again sub- divided into smaller; the axis of which cells is not perpendicular to a transverse section of the intestine, but oblique, forming pouches with the mouths downwards, and acting almost like valves when anything is attempted to be passed in a contrary direction ; they begin faintly in the duodenum, before it makes its quick turn, and terminate near the anus^. The colon and rectum have the rugae very flat, which seems to depend entirely on the contraction of the gut. The rectum in the piked whale near the anus, appears for four or five inches much contracted, is glandular, covered by a soft cuticle, and the anus small. I never found any air in the intestines of this tribe; nor indeed in any of the aquatic animals. The mesenteric artery anastomoses by large branches. There is a considerable degree of uniformity in the liver of this tribe of animals. In shape it nearly resembles the human, but is not so thick at the base, nor so sharp at the lower edge, and is probably not so firm in its texture. The right lobe is the largest and thickest, its falciform ligament broad, and there is a large fissure between the two lobes, in which the round ligament passes. The liver towards the left is very much attached to the stomach, the little epiploon being a thick substance. There is no gall-bladder. The hepatic duct is large, and enters the duodenum about seven inches beyond the pylorus^. I’he pancreas is a very long, flat body, having its left end attached to the right side of the first cavity of the stomach; it passes across the spine at the root of the mesentery, and near to the pylorus joins the hollow curve of the duodenum, along which it is continued, and ad- heres to that intestine, its duct entering that of the liver near the ter- mination in the gut. Although this tribe cannot be said to ruminate, yet in the number of » [See the Preparations, Nos. 709, 710, 711, 712, Physiological Series, Hunterian Museum.] [In the dugong there is a gall-bladder of the usual dimensions, wliich is chiefly peculiar for the mode in which the bile is conveyed to it; in other mammalia this takes place hy a communication between the hepatic and cystic ducts, at some distance from the bladder, but here two large hepatic ducts open directly into the neck of the gall-bladder, in the same way as the ureters terminate in the urinary bladder. The cystic duct, which fulfils the office of the ductus communis, proceeds to the duodenum, and becomes slightly dilated, before it enters that intestine. The manatee has also a gall-bladder, but it is wanting in the northern manatee or Rytina.~\