OF ABSORPTION BY VEINS. 314 himself and Dr. Wm. Hunter in the human subject; they have been witnessed by Majendie in a dog. But, says Majendie, it is unphilosophical, a mere physiological romance, to suppose that they can act in any way different from dead animal tissues; physical imbibition, inorganic capillary attraction is the only cause of the transmission of fluids through animal membranes that we are acquainted with, &c. Yet these or- ganized pores of the lacteal absorbents permit nothing to pass them, according to his own admission, except the chyle. Still it is contended this must be a mechanical action, because lacteal absorption has been observed to go on in a dog for two hours after death; but what does this prove but that the automatic or involuntary actions continue for a certain time after the sensorial power is lost,—after apparent death has ensued ? Thus the only natural absorbent process in the hving body that we can reason upon from the evidence afforded by the nature of the substance absorbed, and the ascertained sti-ucture of the mechanism employed in its absorption, is totally at variance with the theory of non-vital imbibition as the cause of absorption, and can only be explained by a vital or organic endowment of the parts concerned, whether it be regarded as a power of selection or mutual attraction, or an action whose peculiar stimulus is the contact of chyle. The various phenomena of excretory absorption, as it may be termed, render the theory of the capillary attraction of the tissue, whether of veins or Ijunphatics, as their cause, equally unsatisfactory. A property of dead matter cannot account for the rapid absorption of fat in disease; or of the parts of muscles, &c., which, from some accident to a joint, have become useless ; or of alveoli of shed teeth; or of the parts which in the progress of growth become inconveniently situated, as the first deposit of osseous matter in long bonesor of parts which, at the conclusion of growth, are equally in- conveniently situated in regard to some tumour or collection of matter, the discharge of which is salutary to the constitution, &c. A mere physical endowment of animal tissues ought always to be acting, and acting in but one way; and we therefore con- clude, with Hunter, that these various and partial operations of the lymphatics are effected by the vital actions of organic pores, in a manner analogous to that which determines in the lacteals the exclusive absorption of chyle.]