OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. 455 scribed; this last portion is therefore thrown up again, or regurgitated. As it is the labourers alone in the common bee that are so employed, we might conceive this reservoir would belong only to them; but both the queen and males, both in the common and humble bee, have it, as also, I believe, every one of the bee tribe. As the bee is a remarkable instance of regurgitation, it is necessary the structure of the parts concerned in this operation, and which are also connected with digestion, should be well considered. Ruminating animals may be reckoned regurgitating animals, but in them it is for the purpose of digestion entirely in themselves. But many birds may be called regurgitating animals, and in them it is for the purpose of feeding their young. Crows fill their fauces, making a kind of craw, out of which they throw back the food when they feed their young ; but the most remarkable is the dove tril)e, who first fill their craw, and then throw it up into the beak of their young*. The bee has this power to a remarkable degree, not however for the purjDose of feeding the young, but it is the mode of depositing their store in the cells when brought home. In none of the above-mentioned regurgitating animals are the reser- voirs containing the food the immediate organ of digestion; nor does the reservoir for the honey in the bee appear to be its stomach. The tongue^ of the bee is the first of the alimentary organs to be considered ; it is of a peculiar structure, and is probably the largest tongue of any animal we know, for its size. It may be said to consist of three parts respecting its length, having three articulations. One, its articulation with the head, which is in some measure similar to our larynx (mentum). Then comes the body of the tongue, which is com- posed of two parts; one, a kind of base {labium), on which the other, or true tongue {lingua), is articulated. The first part {labium) is prin- cipally a horny substance, in which there is a groove, and it is articu- lated with the first or larynx (mentum) ; on the end of this is fixed the true tongue, with its different parts. These two parts of the tongue are as it were inclosed laterally by two horny scales {maxillae), one on each side, which are concave on that side next to the tongue; one edge See Observations on certain parts of the Animal (Economy, p. 191 [p. 122 of the present edition]. * [The part which Hunter so calls includes the maxillae and their rudimental palpi, the labium and its palpi, as well as the tongue properly so called, which seems, indeed, to be strictly an inordinate development of the labium, or lower lip of the ordinary trophi. I have inserted in the text the terras by which the different parts described by Hunter are known to entomologists.]