AND CECONOMY OF WHALES. 347 of the internal structure of a water-melon, and is found in rather solid lumps. About the nose, or anterior part of the nostril, I discovered a great many vessels, having the appearance of a plexus of veins, some as large as a finger. On examining them, I found they were loaded with the spermaceti and oil, and that some had corresponding arteries. They were most probably lymphatics^; therefore I should suppose that their contents had been absorbed from the cells of the head. We may the more readily suppose this from finding many of the cells or chambers almost empty; and as we may reasonably believe that this animal had been some time out of the seas in which it could procure proper food, it had perhaps lived on the superabundance of oil. The solid masses are what are brought home in casks for spermaceti. I found, by boiling this substance, that I could easily extract the spermaceti and oil which floated on the top from the cellular membrane. When I skimmed oflf the oily part, and let it stand to cool, I found that the spermaceti crystallized, and the whole became solid; and by laying this cake upon any spongy substance, as chalk, or on a hollow body, the oil drained all off, leaving the spermaceti pure and white. These crystals were only attached to each other by edges, forming a spongy mass; and by melting this pure spermaceti, and allowing it to crystal- lize, it was reduced in appearance to half its bulk, the crystals being smaller and more blended, consequently less distinct. The spermaceti mixes readily with other oils. Mobile it is in a fluid state, but separates or crystallizes whenever it is cooled to a certain de- gree, like two different salts being dissolved in water, one of which will crystallize with a less degree of evaporation than the other; or, if the water is warm and fully saturated, one of the salts will crystallize sooner than the other while the solution is cooling. I wanted to see whether spermaceti mixed equally well with the expressed oils of vegetables when w^arm, and likewise separated and crystallized when cold; and on trial there seemed to be no difference. When very much diluted with the oil, it is dissolved or melted by a much smaller degree of heat than when alone; and this is the reason, perhaps, that it is in a fluid state in the living body. If the quantity of spermaceti is small in proportion to the other oil, it is perhaps nearly in that proportion longer in crystallizing ; and when it does crystallize, the crystals are much smaller than those that are formed where the proportion of spermaceti is greater. From the slow- ness with which the spermaceti crystallizes when much diluted with its oil, from a considerable quantity being to be obtained in that way, and * [See the Preparation No. 862, Physiological Series, Hunterian Museum.]