OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE 336 principles, giving the great outlines as far as I am acquainted with them, minuteness being only necessary in the investigation of particular parts. In my account I shall pay some attention to the relations of men who have given facts without knowing their causes, whenever I find that such facts can be explained upon true principles of the animal oeconomy, but no further. This order of animals has nothing peculiar to fish, except living in the same element, and being endowed with the same powers of pro- gressive motion as those fish that are intended to move with a consi- derable velocity; for I believe that all that come to the surface of the water (which this order of animals must do) have considerable progress- ive motion ; and this reasoning we may apply to birds, for those w^hich soar very high have the greatest progressive motion. Although inhabitants of the waters they belong to the same class as quadrupeds, breathing air, being furnished with lungs and all the other parts peculiar to the oeconomy of that class, and having warm blood; for we may make this general remark, that in the different classes of animals there is never any mixture of those parts which are essential to life, nor in their different modes of sensation^. I shall divide what is called the oeconomy of an animal; First, into those parts and actions which respect its internal functions, and on which life immediately depends, as growth, waste, repair, shift- ing or changing of parts, &c., the organs of respiration and secretion, in which we may include the powers of propagating the species. Secondly, into those parts and actions which respect external objects, and which are variously constructed, according to the kind of matter with W’hich they are to be connected, whence they vary more than those of the first division. These are the parts for progressive motion, the organs of sense and the.organs of digestion; all of which either act upon, or are acted upon, by external matter. This variation from external causes in many instances influences the shape of the whole, or particular parts, even giving a peculiar form to some parts which belong to the first order of actions, as the heart, w^hich in this tribe, in the seal, otter, &c., is flattened, because the chest is flattened for the purpose of swimming. The contents of the abdomen are not only adapted to the external form; but their direction in the cavity is, in some instances, regulated by it. The anterior extremities, “ [That is, there is never any combination of the modifications of vital organs cha- racteristic of two different classes of animals in the same species, as of a double heart of the mammal with the branchiae of a fish; nor is the structure of the organ of hearing, or of any other sense characteristic of a higher class of vertebrata, ever combined with a modification of the vital organs peculiar to a lower class.]