108 OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. an experiment being very uncertain, no great light can be derived from trials made on animals of this class. Live or fresh vegetables, when taken into the stomach, are first killed, by which a flabbiness in their texture is produced, as if they had been boiled; and then they can be acted upon by the gastric juice. Meat appears to undergo no change as preparatory to digestion, but at once to submit to its union with the gastric juice; for, after having been acted upon, it seems first to lose its texture, then becomes cineri- tious in colour, next gelatinous, and last chyle. The first change made upon milk and some other secretions, as the yolk and white of an egg, is coagulation; after which the gastric juice begins to acquire a power of uniting with them. The first change which is produced on animal substances out of the body, either by being exposed to heat or by becoming spontaneously putrid, is similar to the second of the three changes which takes place in digestion; and is only preparatory to the complete change, whether that be digestion or putrefaction. It appears from many experiments that the digested or animalized part, when carried into the intestine, is attracted by the villous coat, or clings to it as if entangled among the villi; while the excrementitious part, such as bile, is found lying unconnected in the gut, as if separated from the other • The food of animals in general consists of vegetable or animal sub- stances ; and vegetables seem intended to support one class, with a view to its being the food of another. Although there are classes of animals intended to subsist on each particular kind of food, yet they do not all invariably keep to the same kind in every stage of life, many being nourished by animal food when young that afterwards live on vege- tables ; which circumstance will be more fully discussed when treating of the first food of pigeons. ' All stomachs do not equally digest the same substance, although it be their natural food. The caterpillar digests the expressed juice, but not the substance ; while other animals are capable of dissolving nearly the whole. Some animals, as the common cattle, can feed on a variety of vegetables, although they may have a preference; but there are others * [In chylification, the alkaline principles of the bile combine with the acids which the chyme has received in its formation in the stomach, and the albuminous or chy- lous principles are developed and attracted by the villi; while the resinous parts of the bile, combined with the excrementitious particles of the chyme, are more or less com- pletely separated. The most characteristic change which, according to Prout, takes place in the intestine is the conversion of part of the chyme into albumen, which hap- pens even when no albuminous matter was originally contained in the food or formed in the stomach.]