OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. 93 which is often thrown into action, and brings on vomiting at the same time; therefore violent coughing palls the stomach. There is reason to believe that the natural motion in all stomachs is regular; and I am more inclined to be of this opinion from what takes place in the stomach of animals which are covered with hair, and which lick their own bodies, and of such as feed on whole animals which are likewise covered with hair. In the stomach of the calf, for instance, which licks its skin with its tongue, and swallows whatever is attached to the rough surface of that organ, balls of hair are often found ; and on examining their surface the hairs in each hemisphere seem to arise from a centre, and to take the same direction, which is circular, correspond- ing to what would appear to be the axis of this motion, and resembling what we see in different parts of the skin of animals whose hair takes different turns. This regularity in the direction of the hair, in such balls, could not be produced if there was not a regular motion in the stomach. This motion is also proved in the dog; for I have seen a ball of this kind that had been thrown up from a dog’s stomach, where the same regularity in the turns of the hair was very evident and complete. The same motion seems also to take place in the bird kind; and of this the cuckoo is an example, which, in certain seasons living on caterpillars, some of which have hairs of a considerable length on their bodies, the ends of these are found sticking in the inner horny coat of the stomach or gizzard, while the hairs themselves are laid fiat on its surface ; not in every direction, which would be the case if there was no regular motion, but all one way, arising from a central point placed in the middle of the horny part, and the appearance on the surface of both sides of the giz- zard evidently corresponding®. These two facts prove, in my opinion, a regular circular motion taking place in the gizzard and membranous stomach, and therefore, most probably, something similar is carried on in stomachs of all the various kinds. Indeed this motion in the stomach is so considerable, that when there is no horny defence, we find the coats sometimes pierced by hard pointed substances. Thus, the cows which feed on the grass of bleaching-grounds have their stomachs, especially the second, stuck full of pins; and fish which prey upon and swallow other fish entire, often have their stomachs pierced by the bones. Spallanzani calls the inner coat cartilaginous whereas in fact, it is a “ [The appearance is so regular, that this hairy lining of the gizzard has been mis- taken for a natural peculiarity of the cuckoo. In one of these gizzards, which was exhibited at a meeting of the Zoological Society, I found the supposed gastric hairs under the microscope to present the complex structure characteristic of those of the larva of the tiger-moth {Arctia Caja). See Proceedings of the Zool. Soc. 1834,p. 9.}