242 CROONIAN LlCTURfiS ON MUSCULAR MOTION. CROONIAN LECTURE ON MUSCULAR MOTION, No. III. [Read before the Royal Society in the year 1779, by John Hunter, FiR.S.] Of the Effects of Muscles, In the spring of 1776 I had the honour of delivering to this Societ)>- the Croonian Lecture upon the self-moving power in animals seated in the muscles, in which I also made some observations on the analogy between this power in animals and a similar power in vegetables. I was then desired to prosecute this subject, and accordingly, in the winter following I presented a paper, in which I considered the most remarkable circumstances relative to this power in animals, through which they are enabled to perform all their various motions,—such as the arrangement of the fibres in the construction of all the muscles; the distinct muscles, their figure, kinds, and situation ; the tendons, and fasciae, with their uses; the applications of muscles to tendons, their origin and insertion, and the fitness of them to the joints. It was here noticed that their effect in some cases is equal to their quantity of con- traction ; in others not. The different quantity of contraction in the same length of fibres in different muscles was observed, and the effect arising from the different construction of muscles. As the muscles are, by their contraction, the cause, either immediate or remote, of every action in the animal, and as animals are so con- structed as to produce evident mechanical effects, arising from an ap- plication or combination of the mechanical powers (the contraction of the muscles being the power or original cause), I shall now consider this mechanical application and its effects, with which I shall slightly compare the applications and effects of the mechanical powders as ap- plied in machines which are the productions of art. Muscles are the first simple powders in an animal by which all the mechanical effects are ultimately produced; but an animal body is very differently constructed from that of a machine. A machine is composed of a series of parts, having a regular depen- dence on each other; and the pow’er which produces motion is applied only at one end of these parts, although two, three, or more effects may ultimately be produced, which effects, notwithstanding, must therefore