OF THE ELECTRIC PROPERTY OF THE TORPEDO. 399 stance we have been able to direct his shocks, though they were very small, through a circuit of four persons, all feeling them ; likewise through a considerable length of wire held by two insulated persons, one touching his lower surface and the other his upper. When the wire was exchanged for glass or sealing wax no effect could be ob- tained, but as soon as it was resumed the two persons became liable to the shock. These experiments have been varied many ways and re- peated times without number, and they all determined the choice of conductors to be the same in the torpedo as in the Leyden phial. The sensations likewise occasioned by one and the other in the human frame are precisely similar. Not only the shock, but the numbing sensation which the animal sometimes dispenses, expressed in French by the words engourdissement and fourmillement, may be exactly imi- tated with the phial, by means of Lane’s electrometer, the regulating rod of which, to produce the latter effect, must be brought almost into contact with the prime conductor which joins the phial. We have not yet perceived any spark to accompany the shock, nor the pith balls to be ever affected^. Indeed, all our trials have been done on very feeble subjects, whose shock was seldom sensible beyond the touching finger. I remember but one, of at least two hundred that I myself must have received, to have extended above the elbow. Perhaps the Isle of Rd, which we are about to visit, may furnish us with torpedos fresher taken and of more vigour, by which a further insight into these matters may be had. Our experiments have been chiefly in the air, where the animal was more open to our examination than in water. It is a sin- ® [Gardini and Galvani, and more recently Matteuci, concur in stating that they have seen a feeble spark from the discharge of a torpedo, but other philosophers have not been so successful. The observations of Dr. John Davy on this point (Philos. Trans., 1834) particularly deserve attention. He experimented on very active fish, and varied his trials, with every endeavour to obtain the required result, but never pro- cured a spark. By means of Harris’s electrometer, however, he saw proof of the evo- lution of heat during the torpedo’s discharge. Abundant evidence of the chemical effects of animal electricity has been obtained by the same philosopher. He applied golden wires, one to the dorsal, the other to the ventral surface of the torpedo, and passed the discharge through solutions of nitrate of silver, common salt, and super- acetate of lead, and found that all were decomposed, but the latter substance only when the fish seemed to put forth all its energy, after being much irritated (Philos. Trans., 1832). In resuming the inquiry instituted by Sir Humphry Davy, relative to the magnetical effects of the torpedo’s discharge. Dr. John Davy ascertains in the most satisfactory manner that these effects were produced by animal electricity. He placed eight needles within a spiral of fine copper wire, containing about one hundred and eighty convolutions, and having passed through this a single discharge from a tor- pedo six inches long, the contained needles were all converted into magnets, and the ends of the needles which were nearest the ventral surface of the fish had received the southern polarity. See Phil. Trans., 1829.]