485 FROM NEW SOUTH WALES. stinctly admit of subdivision without interfering with each other. Thus the class called quadrupeds is so well marked that even the whole is justly placed in the same class, birds the same, amphibia (as they are called) the same, and so of fishes, &c.; but when we are subdividing these great classes into their different tribes, genera and species, then we find a mixture of properties, some species of one tribe partaking of similar properties with a species of another tribe. Of the Kangaroo^, This animal (probably from its size) was the principal one taken notice of in this island; the only parts at first brought home were some skins and skulls, and I was favoured with one of the skulls from Sir Joseph Banks. As the teeth of such animals as are already known in some degree point out their digestive organs, I was in hopes that I might have been able to form an opinion of the particular tribe of the animals al- ready known to which the kangaroo should belong; but the teeth did not accord with those of any one class of animals I was acquainted with, therefore I was obliged to wait with patience till I could get the whole ; and in many of its other organs the deviation from other ani- mals is not less than in its teeth. In its mode of propagation it very probably comes nearer to the opossum than any other animal, although it is not at all similar to it in other respects. Its hair is of a greyish brown colour, similar to that of the wild rabbit of Great Britain, is thick and long when the animal is old; but it is late in grownng, and wlien only begun to grow it is like a strong down ; however, in some parts it begins earlier than others, as about the mouth, &c. In all of the young kangaroos yet brought home (although some as large as a full-grown rat) they have all the marks of a foetus : no hair; ears lapped close over the head; no marks on the feet of having been used in progressive mo- tion : the large nail on the great toe sharp at the point, and the sides of the mouth united something like the eyelids of a puppy just whelped, having only a passage at the anterior part. This union of the two lips on the sides is of a particular structure ; it wears off as it grows up, and by the time it is the size of a small rabbit, disappears. Of the Teeth of the Kmigaroo. The teeth of this animal are so singular that it is impossible from them to say what tribe it is of. There is a faint mixture in them, corespond- ing to those of different tribes of animals. Take the mouth at large, [The species here for the first time described is the Macrn2)us major of modern systems: several other species of the same genus have since lieen discovered.]