PRE>AC«^ XI Hunter, however, carries his researches a step further; he submits the fecund egg to a low .temperature, and ascertains a new property, of which Harvey was ignorant, a power, viz. of resisting cold : he also shows that when once frozen, and killed by cold, the dead impregnated egg yields to putrefaction like the unimpregnated one. Both physiologists observed that if the phaenomena of a vital principle were manifested in one part of the organization more than in another, it was in the blood. “ For the blood,” says Harvey, “ is the first formed, and is the primary animate par- ticle of the embryo ; it is generated prior to the piinctum saUens^ before the first rudiment of the heart, and is endowed with the vital heat or principle before it begins to move, and from it does pulsation commence. For the thing containing is made to be serviceable to the thing contained. “ Nor is the blood therefore to be called the primogenial part, because that in and from it the organ of pulsation is de- rived, but also because the animal heat and vital principle are first implanted therein; and in it does life consist. For where heat and motion first begin, there also life doth first arise and last expire.”—Harvey, On Generation, pp. 274, 275, This explicit and beautiful enunciation of the pre-existence of the blood to the machine by which it is mainly circulated, and of its endowment of life, fell barren from the pen of Flarvey (if we except the brief practice of transfusion to which it gave rise), and was forgotten, when Flunter resumed the inquiry. And why, it may be asked, was the doctrine of the vitality of the blood inoperative, as taught by Harvey ? Because instead of establishing that doctrine by observations and experiments, from which alone it w^as susceptible of deriving further proof,— instead of applying the principle to the explanation of the phae- nomena of disease, and to a modification and improvement of “ Ovum itaque est corpus naturale virtute animali praeditum; principio nempe motus, transmutationis, quietis, et conservationis.” Exercit. 26. Cum enim in ovo macula prius dilatetur, colliquamentum concoquatur et praeparetur, jdurimaque alia (non sine providentia) ad pulli formationem et in- crementum instituantur, antequam qiiidpiam pulli vel ipsa primogenita ejus particula apparent; quidni utique credamus calorem innatum animamque pulli vegetativam ante pullum ipsum exsistere?” Exercit. 57.