OF AIR-CELLS IN BIRDS. 178 The cells in the bodies of birds which receive air from the lungs are to be found both in the soft pai'ts and in the bones, and have no com- munication with the cavity of the common cellular membrane. Some of these air-bags are placed in the larger cavities, as in the abdomen; and others are so lodged in the interstices of muscles, blood-vessels, and nerves, about the breast, axilla, &c., as at first to give the appearance of the common connecting membrane. Some communicate immediately with one another, and all may be said to have a communication by means of the lungs. They are of very different sizes, as may best suit the par- ticular circumstances of the parts in which they are placed. The bones which receive air are of two kinds; some, as the sternum, ribs, and vertebrae, having their internal substance divided into innumer- able cells; whilst others, as the os humeri and os femoris, are hollowed out into one large canal, with sometimes a few bony columns running across at its extremities. Bones of this kind may be distinguished from those that do not receive air by several marks: first, by their less spe- cific gravity; secondly, by being less vascular than the others, and there- fore whiter; thirdly, by their containing little or no oD, and consequently being more easily cleaned, and when cleaned, appearing much whiter than common bones; fourthly, by having no marrow, or even any bloody pulpy substance in their cells; fifthly, by not being in general so hard and firm as other bones*; and sixthly, by the passage that allows the air to enter the bones, which can be easily perceived. In the recent bone we may readily discover holes or openings not filled with any soft substance, as blood-vessels or nerves; several of these holes are placed together, near that end of the bone which is next to the trunk of the bird, and are distinguishable by having their external edges rounded off, which is not the case with the holes through which either nerves or blood-vessels pass into the substance of the bone. When birds break any of the bones which contain air, the surrounding parts often become emphysematous. There are openings in the lungs by which air is transmitted to the other parts; and the membrane or diaphragm above mentioned is per- forated in several places with holes of a considerable size, which admit of a free communication between the cells of the lungs and the abdomen, a circumstance which has been frequently noticed. To each of these perforations is joined a distinct membranous bag, extremely thin and transparent, which bag? being afterwards continued through the whole of the abdomen, and attached to the back and sides of that cavity, are *■ The bones of some birds are so soft that they can be squeezed together with the finger and thumb; the bones of the extremities, however, have very solid sides.