CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 231 as a medium between bones and muscles, to admit of the nicety of ac- tion and freedom of motion we find in many parts of the body, particu- larly in the fingers; which could not have taken place if the muscles had been continued from bone to bone. Where flexibility is not necessary we find then that there is a conti- nuation of bone, as in many birds, as in the leg of the turkey, partridge, &c., and through the whole body of most fishes; so that tendon is to be considered as a substitute for bone where that substance would be im- proper. Physiologists, however, have given a very different idea of it, supposing it to be a continuation and condensation of the muscular fibres; for which supposition there is no proof, even the smallest shadow of reason, either from analogy or from the parts themselves : it is there- fore too absurd to deserve refutation. Besides the uses of fascise above described, we find them in many parts of the body covering muscles, giving origin to them, binding down the belly of the muscle, and also binding down the tendon which is at- tached to it: this application of them is chiefly found in the extremi- ties, particularly the forearm and leg. Where the fascia binds down the tendon at or near the joint it is called ‘ annular ligament,’ which is in general little more than the fascia made strong; but VT^here greater nicety in the motion of the parts is re- quired we find annular bindings independent of the general fascia, as in the fingers and toes. These are to keep the tendons from having lateral motions, and where the joint makes an angle, to prevent their coming into straight lines, which would happen if not prevented by this annu- lar ligament, and which would destroy the intention of the joint, as is evident in the fingers. Where the fascia covers two muscles it is fixed to the tendon which lies between them, and generally covers their tendons. Where it covers a tendon it almost surrounds it, making a kind of theca, and is fixed to the bone along which the tendon passes. These circumstances only take place where muscles are placed at a considerable distance from the parts to be moved, and their tendons pass over more joints than one, as in the muscles of the forearm and leg, where the tendons go to the fingers and toes. Fascia is sometimes very thin, called membrana communis musculo- rum, covering superficial muscles, particularly the broad ones, as the obliqui extern!, latissimus dorsi, pectoralis, &c., and on some of the deeper-seated broad muscles, but thinner and looser in its connexion with the muscles. It is never met with in this state on the round muscles. It would seem to be intended to connect the skin by its cellular