443 OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. moved, out of which the new ones are probably formed^. As bees are not different in this state from the common flying insects in general, I shall not pursue the subject of their changes further; although it makes a very material part in the natural history of insects. When the chrysalis is formed into the complete bee, it then destroys the covering of its cell, and comes forth. The time it continues in this state is easier ascertained than either in that of the egg or the maggot; for the bees cannot move the chrysalis as they do the two others. In one instance it was thirteen days and twelve hours exactly ; so that an egg in hatching being five days, the age of the maggot being four days, and the chrysalis continuing thirteen and a half, the whole makes twen- ty-two days and a half: but how far this is accurate I will not pretend to say. I found that the chrysalis of a male was fourteen days, but this was probably accidental. When they first come out they are of a greyish colour, but soon turn brown. When the swarm of which I have hitherto been giving the history has come off early and is a large one, more especially if it was put into too small a hive, it often breeds too many for the hive to keep through ^ [It is in the determination of these interesting questions that the minute researches of Swammerdam manifest their importance. His figures demonstrate that the larva of the bee consists of thirteen annular segments, of which one corresponds to the head, three to the thorax, and nine to the abdomen of the perfect insects. The cephalic segment supports the rudimental eyes, which resemble the ocelli of other insects in structure, but are colourless and semi-transparent. The antennae are represented by two small organs placed at the anterior angles of the head ; the oral organs are also indicated ; there is a small transverse upper lip or labrum, beneath which are two little homy parts, afterwards destined to become the mandibles ; then “ two little parts which seem as if they were articulatedthese are subsequently developed into the maxillm; and between these is a mesial “ small, and somewhat prominent part, which resembles a trunk or tongue, and this increasing by degrees, at length in- deed constitutes,” says Swammerdam, the trunk of the bee.” We thus have evidence that the parts which so conspicuously distinguish the imago from the larva, are not “ entii'ely new built,” but are “ wonderfully changed ” by gradually altering their form and relative dimensions. With respect to the rest of the larva, we find that the body is furnished on each side with ten minute circular spiracles, a pair being placed on each segment, with the ex- ception of that which immediately follows the head, and the terminal one which bears the arms. Previous to shedding the skin, the first three segments of the body begin to swell, and make room for the aggregated muscles which are to put in motion the locomotive organs, attached, in the perfect insect, exclusively to these segments. The larva being apodal, both the legs and wings may be regarded as being “ en- tirely new built,” and the pupa of the bee then presents an elegant disposition and well- ordered representation of all the limbs and parts of the future bee. The antennae and the tongue are seen lying along the breast, and the wings and legs bent from the sides of the thorax along the belly. Some of the segments of the larva are “ reniijved,” and out of these the organs of generation appear to be formed.]