OF AIR-CELLS IN BIRDS. 17C- ,-\N ACCOUNT OF CERTAIN RECEPTACLES OF AIR I^J BIRDS, WHICH COMMUNICATE WITH THE LUNGS AND EUSTACHIAN TUBE. Since the account of these receptacles was read before the Royal Society, in the year 1774,1 have, by the dissection of a number of birds, been able to make some additional observations relative to the extent of the air-cells which communicate with the lungs in animals of this class. These latter observations were not, however, made in consequence of any regular design to investigate this subject further, as to have esta- blished the principle seemed all that was necessary; unless by general observations we could hope to throw more light on the final intention of this remarkable piece of mechanism. Before the period I have mentioned, the communication subsisting in birds, between the air-cells of the lungs and other cavities of the body, had not been clearly explained, nor even much attended to by anatomists or natural historians^. It is a singularity of structure peculiar to this ® [The continuation of the air-passages of the lungs into large membranous recep- tacles, situated in the abdominal cavity, was first discovered and described by Harvey (On Generation, 8vo, 1653, |). 7 ; Opera Omnia, 4to, 1766, p. 185). The abdominal air-cells of the ostrich are figured in Perault’s Collection of Anatomical Memoirs of the French Academicians. Borelli, in explaining the causes of the greater specific levity of birds, observes, “ Hoc patet, quia ossa avium fistulosa, valde excavata et subtilia sunt, ad instar radicum pennarum scapulae; costae et brachia parum carnosa sunt; pectus et abdomen amplas cavitates aere plenas habent; pennae tamen et plumae levissimae sunt.’^ (Z)e Motu AnimaVium, 4to, 1685, p. 231, prop. 194.) Borelli appears, however, to have believed both the quills of the feathers and the hollow bones to have contained only a light marrow. The discovery that the bones of birds contained air was first published in the year 1774,—in England in the Philosophical Transactions of that year, which contained Mr. Hunter’s ‘Account,’ &c. read before the Royal Society February 27, 1774; and in Holland in the Verhandeling van Bataafsche Genootsclde, Rotterdam, 1774, in which Camper’s discovery of the same structure was first published. Camper transmitted, in the year 1773, an account of his researches on the air-bones of bii'ds to the French Academy, which was published in the Memoires de Mathematiqucs et Physique, 4to, in 1776. Whilst, therefore, we may be willing to admit that Camper’s Memoir was founded on an independent discovery, we must also conclude that the mass of valuable observations on the air-receptacles of birds, communicated to the Royal Soci- ety some months before the first publication of Camper’s discovery in the Dutch language, was equally original. The French translator of Carus’s Comparative Anatomy, in a prefatory sketch of the History of the Science, introduces John Hunter to the reader’s notice as follows: “ Le premier, il (Camper) a fait remarquer que les os longs du sque-