OF THE SITUATION OF THE TESTIS IN THE FCETUS. 7 end of the testis to the scrotum, and which at present I shall call the ligament, or guhernaculum testis, because it connects the testis with the scrotum, and seems to direct its course through the rings of the ab- dominal muscles. It is of a pyramidal form; its large bulbous head is upwards, and fixed to the lower end of the testis and epididymis, and its lower and slender extremity is lost in the cellular membrane of the scrotum. The upper part of this ligament is within the abdomen, before the psoas, reaching from the testis to the groin, or to where the testicle is to pass out of the abdomen; whence the ligament runs down into the scrotum, precisely in the same manner as the spermatic vessels pass down in adult bodies, and is there lost. The lower part of the round ligament of the uterus in a foetus very much resembles this ligament of the testis, and may be plainly traced down into the labium, where it is imperceptibly lost. That part of the ligamentum testis which is within the abdomen is covered by the peritoneum all round except at its pos- terior part, which is contiguous to the psoas, and connected with it by the reflected peritoneum and by the cellular membrane. It is hard to say what is the structure or composition of this ligament; it is cer- tainly vascular and fibrous, and the fibres run in the direction of the ligament itself, which is covered by the fibres of the cremaster or mus- culus testis, placed immediately behind the peritoneum. This circum- stance is not easily ascertained in the human subject; but is very evi- dent in other animals, more especially in those whose testicles remain in the cavity of the abdomen after the animal is full grown. “In the hedgehog the testes continue through life to be lodged within the abdomen, in the same situation as in the human foetus ; and they are fastened by the same kind of ligament to the inside of the pari- etes of the abdomen at the groin. Now in that animal I find that the lowermost fibres of the internal oblique muscle, which constitute the cremaster, are turned inwards at the place where the spermatic vessels come out in other animals, making a smooth edge or lip by their inver- sion, and that then they mount up on the ligament to the lower end of the testis^. Sometimes in the human body, and in many other animals, and very often in sheep, the testes do not descend from the cavity of ^ [The apparent anomaly of this, as of almost every other natural structure, disap- pears when we attain the requisite amount of knowledge respecting the conditions under which it exists. The testes of the hedgehog, like those of the mole, (see p. 29,) are subject to remarkable periodical enlargement at the season of copulation, when they are drawn down by the cremaster to the external ring. In this situation they are fa- vourably placed to be affected by the expulsive actions of the diaphragm and abdominal muscles, by which they are eventually protruded and the cremasteric pouch is inverted. As the testes diminish in size their muscular covering contracts upon them and returns them into the abdomen.]