290 ON THE LATE MR. IIUNTER's PREPARATION The melancholy event which has deprived this learned Society of so valuable a member, and which has taken from me so able an instructor, line of the cross at one pole being inclined 45° to the lines at the other pole; in others, the terminations of the fibres form more complicated figures. In the largest number of animals the arrangement of the fibres is the same at both poles ; but in a few, such as the turtle, the fibres terminate in a different manner in the two surfaces of the lens. But the structure of each of the fibres is still more wonderful than their arrangement. The sides of each fibre are formed with teeth, like those of a watch-wheel, and the teeth of one fibre lock into those of the adjacent ones, apparently to strengthen them and give body to the frail morsel of transparent jelly into which they are so marvel- lously moulded. In the lens of a cod-fish, four tenths of an inch in diameter, Sir D. Brewster calcu- lates the number of fibres to be al)out five millions, and the number of teeth by which the fibres are bound together to be sixty-two thousand five hundred millions; and as every tooth has three surfaces, the number of touching surfaces will be one hundred and eighty-seven thousand five hundred millions; and yet this little sphere of tender jelly is as transparent as a drop of the purest water, and allows a beam of light to pass across these almost innumerable joints without obstructing or reflecting a single ray! With respect to the muscular theory of the lens, and its supposed power of adjust- ing the eye to vision at different distances, by an alteration of its owm form or dimen- sions, it is hardly nccessaiy to state that these views have derived no support since the time of Hunter, and of Dr. Young, wdio also entertained the theory of the initabiUty of the crj’^stalline fibres. It has, on the other hand, been showm, in the well-attested case of Henry Miles that the eye may retain its powder of adjustment after the removal of the lens. The supposed function of the lens, as an achromatic instrument, has been deduced from the structime winch it presents in the human body, wliere the density of the fibrous layers diminishes from the centre to the surface: a structme of which the purpose is undoubtedly to correct spherical aberration; but the lenses of quadrupeds display three different structures of varying density, separated by neutral lines, in which lines a den- sity decreasing outwards passes into a density increasing outsvards. This structure is well displayed in the lens of the horse; and when the animal has attained a great age tlie densities of the central and superficial structures have become uniform throughout, wliile the middle one exhibits a varying density more strongly marked than in the young lens, and exhibiting by polarized light a brilliant yellow colour, like the most perfect films of regularly crystallized bodies. That these stnictures are intended to correct spherical aberration or to improve vision cannot be doubted; but the principles are yet to be discovered on which that correction or improvement depends. Meanwhile it is the duty of the physiologist to set j)lainly before himself, and to offer fairly to his pupils these unexplained or residual phenomena of the theory of vision; not to hide them beneath an easily comprehended but insufficient illustration. An achromatic lens, though highly desirable, indeed essential to the construction of a good telescope or microscope, is not therefore necessary in the eye : it is well known to be less adapted for the pur- poses of a camera ohscura than a common lens; but the organ of vision has a much closer analogy to a camera ohscura than to a telescope. In a telescope, if there be colour, or dispersion of the object-glass, this must be greatly niagnified by the eye-piece; and, what is still more essential, there is an eye bcliind the instrument which takes cogni- ^ See the Croonian Lecture, Phil. Trans., 1802, vol. xcii. p. 8.