91 OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. in grindstones need not be the tenth of an inch, if their motion is alter- nate and in contrary directions. But although the motion of the gizzard is hardly visible, yet we may be made very sensible of its action by put- ting the ear to the sides of a fowl while it is grinding its food, when the stones can be heard moving upon one another^. It may be remarked, that the motion of the whole intestinal canal, from the fauces to the anus, is naturally so slow, as not to be excited into quick actions. The food passes slowly along the oesophagus; and in a man, fluids which might be expected to act even by their own gravity, descend but slowly: yet I think we may be certain that the oesophagus has always a regular contraction, and that the lower parts must relax in progression as it contracts above; so that no position of the body makes any difference in this action. Upon exposing the stomach in living animals it does not appear much agitated or affected, even by being handled or otherwise irritated. The same thing may be observed in the whole track of intestines ; and we find that when the faeces are expelled by the action of the gut alone, that the expulsion is slow; the stomach and rectum, however, can be emptied at once; but that is done by the abdominal and other muscles. We know that the action of vomiting is performed entirely by the dia- phragm and abdominal muscles; and we know that by the same action the contents of the rectum can be expelled. Neither is any other power required to empty the stomach in vomiting, these muscles being often capable of forcing the bowels themselves out of the abdomen, and of producing a rupture. It is not necessary the stomach itself should act violently to produce an evacuation of its contents; nor is it even neces- sary it should act at all; for the lungs themselves do not act in the least when any extraneous matter is to be thrown up ; and coughing is to the lungs what vomiting is to the stomach^. The muscles of respiration ® [Harvey makes a similar observation on birds of prey: “Falconibus, aquilis, aliis- que avibus ex praeda viventibus, si aurem prope admoveris dum ventriculus jejunus est, manifestos intus strepitus, lapillorum illuc ingestorum, invicemque collisorum per- cipias.”—Opera Omnia, 4to, p. 208. These investigations by means of the ear relative to the internal actions of animal bodies deserve a place in the history of auscultation.] [The conclusion which Hunter deduces from philosophical and just analogies, with respect to the share performed by the stomach in the act of vomiting, has not been con- sidered satisfactory, at least if we may judge from the experiments which have subse- quently been made with a view to determine that point. But perhaps M. Majendie was not aware of what our illustrious physiologist had written on the subject, as he in- troduces his experiments to our notice as if the passive state of the stomach in vomiting had never before been suspected : “ On a cru long-temps que le vomissement dependait de la contraction brusque et convulsive de I’estomac,” &c.; and then goes on to detail his notorious experiment on the dog, for whose stomach he substituted a pig’s bladder;