222 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. What produces this temporary increase in the muscle ? It is pro- bable that an extravasation of fluids has taken place, and the weakness induced in the muscles in consequence of their having acted more than usual, and with greater force, is the cause of extravasation. Effects of Habit on Muscles. Muscles are capable of being improved and increased in diflcrent ways by exercise, or employing the muscle much in its natural functions. This improvement in action is most observable in the muscles of vo- lition, as it is in consequence of the will that they become more familiar with the actions; and also they are more subjected to a variety of ac- tion, sometimes acting strongly, at others not at all. The stimulus of the will never loses its influence by habit or by be- coming familiar, but these stimuli may be called arbitrary or accidental, foreign, &c. Muscles not only improve in one particular, but in every respect whatever. One improvement voluntary muscles acquire from habit is the readi- ness with which they take up their own actions, the will frequently only having to set them a going; there are instances of people playing tunes without attending to the notes or even thinking of the tunes. From this facility of obeying the will in beginning actions, and of repeating actions they have been accustomed to, with the greatest va- riety of motions, in the voluntary muscles, particularly in man, and also from the frequent employment in any actions, muscles acquire a facility in obeying the mind in the performance of actions they had never tried before, going hand in hand with the mind; for as the mind, when it sets the body to perform actions, acquires a facility in immediately employing the proper muscles, they obey directly, and this even in actions they never performed before. A man will learn one trade much more readily if he knows another, than if he knew no trade at all. The habit of acting in a muscle, especially when employed in consi- derable exertions, increases the necessity of becoming stronger, which necessity, acting as a stimulus upon the muscles, becomes a real cause of increase of size, which augments their strength. This effect is so evident, that painters and sculptors, as well as physi- ologists, have observed it. We have Charon and Vulcan always repre- sented with large shoulders, brawny arms, and their lower extremities small, and apparently disproportioned. This effect is still more nicely marked by the difference between the right arm and the left; the right being generally employed in preference,