360 OBSERVATIOxNS ON THE STRUCTURE and indented into one another^. This stomach opens into the third by a round contracted orifice, which does not seem to be valvular. The third stomach is by much the smallest, and appears to be only a passage between the second and fourth. It has no peculiar structure on the inside, but terminates in the fourth by nearly as large an open- ing as its beginning. In the porpoise it is not above one, and in the bottle-nose about five, inches long. The fourth stomach is of a considerable size; but a good deal less than either the first or second. In the piked whale it is not round, but seems flattened between the second and fifth. In the porpoise it is long, passing in a serpentine course almost like an intestine, llie internal surface is regular, but villous, and opens on its right side into the fifth by a round opening smaller than the entrance from the third. The fifth stomach is in the piked whale round, and in the porpoise oval^; it is small, and terminates in the pylorus, which has little of a valvular appearance. Its coats are thinner than those of the fourth, having an even inner surface, which is commonly tinged with bile. The piked whale, and, I believe, the large whalebone whale, have a caecum; but it is wanting in the porpoise, grampus, and bottle-nose whale‘s. "fhe structure of the inner surface of the intestine is in some very singular, and different from that of the others. The inner surface of the duodenum in the piked whale is thrown into longitudinal rugae, or valves, which are at some distance from each other, and these receive lateral folds. The duodenum in the bottle- nose swells out into a large cavity, and might almost be reckoned an eighth stomach ; but as the gall-ducts enter it I shall call it duodenum. The inner coat of the jejunum, and ileum, appears in irregular folds, which may vary according as the muscular coat of the intestine acts ; yet I do not believe that their form depends entirely on that circum- stance, as they run longitudinally, and take a serpentine course when the gut is shortened by the contraction of the longitudinal muscular * [It is to this stomach that the piieumogastric nerves are principally distributed; the thick and soft lining substance presents, according to the microscopical researches of Sir David Brevrster, a peculiar structure, consisting of closely aggregated minute tubes placed perpendicularly between the smooth internal mucous membrane and the vascular tunic which immediately lines the muscular coat.] ** [This part we regard as the dilated duodenum, since the gall-ducts terminate in it, and consequently reckon but four compartments in the stomach of the porpesse.] ® [In all the vegetable feeding Cetacea there is a caecum, but it is small. In tlie dugong it is of a simple conical form, and ver}- muscidai’. In the manatee the caecum is bifurcate.]