442 OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. bring the leg under the belly, and turning the point of the tail to the outside of the leg, where the farina is, they shove it off by the point of the tail. When it is thus shoved off both legs, the bee leaves it, and the two pieces of farina may be seen lying at the bottom of the cell; an- other bee comes almost immediately, and creeping into the cell, continues about five minutes, kneading and working it down into the bottom, or spreads it over what was deposited there before, leaving it a smooth surface. It is of a consistency like paste, burns slightly, and gives a kind of unusual smell, probably from having been mixed with animal juice in the act of kneading it down, for when brought in it is rather a powder than a paste. That it is the food of the maggot is proved by examining the animal’s stomach ; for when we kill a maggot full grown, we find its stomach full of a similar substance, only softer, as if mixed with a fluid, but we never find honey in the stomach; therefore we are to sup- pose it is collected as food for the maggot, as much as honey is for the old bee. Mr, Schirach imagines that the semen of the male is the food of the maggot; but the food of the male and the queen maggot has been supposed to be different from that of the labourers. Reaumur says the food of the queen maggot is different in taste from that of the com- mon ones. How he knew this, who was unacquainted with the food of the others, I cannot conceive. Of the Excrement of the Maggot, They have very little excrement, but what they do discharge is de • posited at the bottom of the cell; and what at first will appear ra- ther extraordinary, it is never cleared away by the bees, but allowed to dry along with the maggot coats; and both fresh eggs and honey are deposited in these cells so circumstanced, every future year ; so that in time the cells become nearly half full. ' Of the Chrysalis State. In this state they are forming themselves for a new life ; they are either entirely new built, or wonderfully changed, for there is not the smallest vestige of the old form remaining; yet it must be the same materials, for now nothing is taken in. How far this change is only the old parts new modelled, or gradually altering their form, is not ea- sily determined. To bring about the change, many parts must be re-