OF THE WOLF, JACKAL, AND DOG. 320 inclined to think there never is; if so, as both wolves and foxes in- habited this country, they cannot then be of the same species. Wolves, as also jackals, are found in herds ; and the jackal is so little afraid of the human species, that, like a dog, it comes into houses in search of food, more like a variety of the dog, the consequence of culti- vation rather than of chance. It would appear to be much the most familiar of the two; for we shall find that in its readiness to copulate with the dog, and its familiarity with the dog afterwards, it is somewhat different from the wolf; however, this may depend on accident. The wolf being an animal well known in Europe, the part of the world where natural history is particularly "cultivated, some pains have been taken to ascertain whether or not it was of the same species with the dog; but I believe it has been hitherto considered as only belonging to the same genus. Accident often does as much for natural history as premeditated plans, especially when Nature is left to herself. The first instance of the dog and wolf breeding in this country seems to have been about the year 1766. A Pomeranian bitch of Mr. Brookes’s, in the New Road, was lined only once by a wolf, and brought fortli a litter of nine healthy puppies. The veracity of Mr. Brookes is not to be doubted, respecting the bitch having been lined by a wolf; yet as it was possible she might have been lined by some common dog without his knowledge, the fact was not, in that, clearly made out; but it has since been ascertained that the dog and wolf will breed. One of the above-mentioned litter was presented to me by Mr. Brookes, who likewise informed me that others had been purchased by different noblemen and gentlemen, and named Lord Clanbrassil as having bought a bitch puppy. I reserved mine for the purpose of experiment; and from observation it appeared that its actions were not truly those of a dog, having more quickness of attention to what passed, being more easily startled, as if particularly apprehensive of danger, quicker in transitions from one action to another, being not so ready to the call, and less docile. From these peculiarities it lost its life, having been stoned to death in the streets for a mad dog. Hearing that Lord Clanbrassil’s bitch had bred. Sir Joseph Banks was so obliging as, at my request, to write to his Lordship, who sent the following account: “ Sir, " About seventeen or eighteen years ago, the late Lord Monthermer and I happened to see a dog-wolf at Mr. Brookes’s, who deals in animals, and lives in the New Road. The animal was remarkably tame, and it struck us, for that reason, that a breed might be procured between him and a bitch.