342 OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE short as possible; and in the small bottle-nose whale are only six in number^. The structure of the bones is similar to that of the bones of quadru- peds : they are composed of an animal substance, and an earth that is not animal; these seem only to be mechanically mixed, or rather the earth thrown into the interstices of the animal part. In the bones of fishes this does not seem to be the case, the earth in many fish being so united with the animal part as to render the whole transparent, which is not the case when the animal part is removed by steeping the bone in caustic alkali; nor is the animal part so transparent when de- prived of the earth. The bones are less compact than those of qua- drupeds that are similar to them. Their form somewhat resembles what takes place in the quadruped, at least in those whose uses are similar, as the vertebrae, ribs, and bones of the anterior extremities have their articulations in part alike, although not in all of them. The articulation of the lower jaw, of the carpus, metacarpus, and fingers are exceptions. The articulation of the low'er jaw is not by simple contact either single or double, joined by a cap- sular ligament, as in the quadruped, but by a very thick intermediate , substance of the ligamentous kind, so interw'oven that its parts move on each other, in the interstices of which is an oil. This thick matted substance may answer the same purpose as the double joint in the qua- druped^. The two fins are analogous to the anterior extremities of the qua- druped, and are also somewhat similar in construction. A fin is com- posed of a scapula, os humeri, ulna, radius, carpus, and metacarpus, in which last may be included the fingers, because the number of bones are those which might be called fingers, although they are not sepa- rated, but included in one general covering with the metacarpus. They have nothing analogous to the thumb‘d, and the number of bones in each is different: in the fore finger there are five bones, in the middle and ring finger seven, and in the little finger four. The articulation of ® [The true number of cervical vertehrm is seven in all the carnivorous Cetacea, as the holes for the transmission of the cervical nerves distinctly demonstrate. In the manatee there are only six. The more or less anchylosed condition of these verte- brae gives fixity to the head. The corresponding region of the spine in fish is rendered inflexible; and in the burrowing armadillos some of the cervical vertebrai are anchy- losed, which structure in all these cases is designed to afford the requisite power to the head for overcoming pressure.] ^ [See the Preparation No. 240, Physiological Series, Hunterian Museum.] ® [e. e. No digit analogous in the opposable property which essentially chai’acterizes a thumb; but the homologous digit, the fifth on the radial side, is present in most ce- tacea. It has tw'o phalanges in the Porpoise, and four phalanges in the Black-fish {Delphinus Globiceps). It is wanting in the Bal<enoptera Justralis.l