117 OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. dissolved ; a thing that appeared to him very unaccountable, there hav- ing been no previous symptom which could have led him to suspect'any disease in the stomach. I took that opportunity of explaining to him my ideas respecting it; and that, having long been employed in making experiments on digestion, I had been induced to consider this as one of the facts which proved a converting power in the gastric juice. I men- tioned my intention of publishing the whole of my observations on di- gestion at some future period; but he desired me, in the mean time, to give this fact by itself, with my remarks; as it would prove that there is a solvent power existing in the stomach, and would be of use in the examination of dead bodies An accurate knowledge of the appearances in animal bodies, where death has been the consequence of some violence while they were other- wise in health, ought certainly to be considered as necessary to qualify us to judge truly of the state of the body in those that die of diseases. An animal body undergoes changes after death; but it has never been sufficiently considered what those changes are, or how soon they may take place; yet till this be done it is impossible we can form an accu- rate judgement of the appearances which present themselves at the time of inspection. The diseases of an animal body (mortification excepted) are always connected with the living principle, and are not in the least similar to the changes which take place in the dead body : without a knowledge of this, an opinion drawn from dissections must always be very imperfect or very erroneous. Appearances which are in them- selves natural may be mistaken for those of disease; we may see dis- eased parts, and suppose them in a natural state; w’e may consider a circumstance to have existed before death which was really a conse- quence of it; or we may imagine it to be a natural change after death, when it was in fact a disease of the living body. It is easy to see, therefore, how a man in this state of ignorance must blunder when he comes to connect the appearances in a dead body with the symptoms that were observed in life ; and, indeed, all the advantage to be derived from opening dead bodies depends upon the judgement and sagacity with which this sort of comparison is made. * [The original paper is printed in the 62nd volume of the Philosophical Transac- tions; and was read June 18th, 1772. It begins as follows; “ An accurate knowledge of the appearances in'anirnal bodies that die of a violent death, that is, in perfect health, or in a sound state, ought to be considered as a necessary foundation forjudging of the state of the body in those that are diseased,” The remainder of the essay is given in the 2nd edition of the Animal (Economy, with verbal alterations of the same kind and degree as are exemplified in the paragraph above quoted; with the omission of one sentence and a note, which arc subjoined at t1ie end of the paper.]