OF THE SITUATION OF THE TESTIS IN THE FCETUS. 15 afterwards; for when the sac has been but recently closed it seems pos- sible enough that violence may open it again. “ It must likewise be obvious to every anatomist, who examines the state of the testis in children of different ages, that the mouth and neck only of the sac close up, and that the lower part of the sac remains loose around the testis, and makes the tunica vaginalis propria. Whence it is plain that this tunic was originally a part of the elongated perito- neum ; and, as it is undoubtedly the seat of the true hydrocele, it is also plain that the hernia congenita and the true hydrocele cannot exist to- gether in the same side of the scrotum. For when there is a hernia congenita there is no other cavity than that of the hernial sac; aaid that cavity communicates with the general cavity of the abdomen. “ The observations contained in the two last paragraphs occurred to my brother upon reading Baron Haller’s Opuscula Pathologica, and gave rise to my inquiries upon this subject.”—Medical Commentaries, part i. p. 83. Having explained the situation of the testicles in the foetus, and their descent, with the circumstances attending it, I shall next consider the cases in which the change takes place, in one or both testicles, later than the usual or natural time. And having remarked the consequences of this descent at so late a period, I shall take notice of those instances in which the testicles never pass out of the abdomen. I have said that the early descent of the testicles, and closing of the mouth of the sac, by usually happening before birth, prevent likewise the descent of any part of the abdominal viscera; but when the tes- ticles remain in their first situation beyond this period these advantages are lost; a part of the intestines or epiploon being, under these circum- stances, liable to descend along with them. The first or natural process, in some instances, not having been be- gun, or having been interrupted before birth, it becomes afterwards very uncertain when the descent will be completed; yet I think the comple- tion most frequently happens between the years of two and ten, while the person is young and growing, being seldom delayed beyond the age of puberty. It is not easy to ascertain the cause of this failure in the descent of the testicle; but I am inclined to suspect that the fault originates in the testicles themselves. This however is certain, that the testicle which has completed its descent is the largest, which is more evident in the quadruped than in the human subject; as in these we can have an op- tunity of examining the parts when we please, and can determine how I small in comparison with the other that testicle is which has exceeded i the usual time of coming down : it never descends so low as the other.