AND CECONOMY OF WHALES. 345 In animals of the same class living on land the fat is more diffused; it is situated, more especially when old, in the interstices of muscles, even between the fasciculi of muscular fibres, and is attached to many of the viscera; but many parts are free from fat, unless when diseased, as the penis, scrotum, testicle, eyelid, liver, lungs, brain, spleen, &c. In fish its situation is rather particular, and is most commonly in two modes: in the one diffused through the whole body of the fish, as in the salmon, herring, pilchard, sprat, &c.; in the other, it is found in the liver only, as in all of the ray kind, cod, and in all those called white- fish, there being none in any other part of the body*. The fat of fish appears to be diffused through the substance of the parts which contain it, but is probably in distinct cells. In some of these fish, where it is diffused over the whole body, it is more in some parts than others, as on the belly of the salmon, where it is in larger quantity. The fat is differently inclosed in different orders of animals. In the quadruped, those of the seal kind excepted, in the bird, amphibia, and in some fish, it is contained in loose cellular membrane, as if in bags, composed of smaller ones, by which means the larger admit of motion on one another and on their connecting parts; which motion is in a greater or less degree, as is proper or useful. Where motion could answer no purpose, as in the bones, it is confined in still smaller cells. The fat is in a less degree in the soles of the feet, palms of the hands, and in the breasts of many animals. In this order of animals and the seal kind, as far as I yet know, it is disposed of in two ways : the small quantity found in the cavities of the body and interstices of parts is in general disposed in the same way as in quadrupeds; but the external, which includes the principal part, is inclosed in a reticular membrane, apparently composed of fibres passing in all directions, which seem to confine its extent, allowing it little or no motion on itself, the whole when distended forming almost a solid body. This, however, is not always the case in every part of animals of this order; for under the head, or what may be rather called neck, of the bottle-nose, the fat is confined in larger cells, admitting of motion. This reticular membrane is very fine in some, and very strong and coarse in others, and even varies in different parts of the same animal. It is fine in the porpoise, spermaceti, and large whalebone whale; coarse in the grampus and small whalebone whale f: in all of them it is finest on the body, becoming coarser towards the tail, which is composed of fibres without any fat, which is also the case in the covering of the fins. This reticular net- work in the seal is very coarse; and in those which are not fat, when * The sturgeon is, however, an exception, having its fat in particular situations, and in the interstices of parts, as in other animals.] t Where it is fine it jields the largest quantity of oil, and requires the least boiling*