69 ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE PLACENTA. the uterus is appropriated for the support of the foetus, as best fitted for that purpose, yet it is not essential to its growth; as any other part appeared, and never any indication of a vascular trunk or cell commensurate with the size of the vein whose terminal aperture had been lifted up from the part. The above results of my examination of the impregnated uterus, which had been fur- nished to me by Dr. Lee, I communicated, as I had promised to do, to that gentleman. They appeared decisive of the fact that the veins of the uterus were not continued as such across the decidua, to terminate in visible cells in the substance of the placenta; but whe- ther the terminal orifices of the veins derived no returning blood from the interstices of the decidual laminae, was by no means certain. For my own part, having satisfied myself of the passage of the tortuous uterine arteries into the decidua, I undoubtedly considered the uterine venous sinuses as the most probable and natural channels by which the blood conveyed from the uterus by the tortuous arteries would return again to that body; al- though I was unable to determine from this dissection how the blood was returned into the open mouths of the veins. It must be admitted, that an impregnated uterus at the fifth month, where the ves- sels, which are very small, had been contracted by the spirit in which the parts had been preserved, was not a very favourable subject for so delicate an investigation; and I accordingly felt extremely desirous of repeating the dissections on gravid uteri at a more advanced period. These opportunities do not, as is well known, frequently occur: about a year after I was, however, favoured by Dr. Lee with a large portion of a gravid uterus of a woman who died about the ninth month of gestation, in which the uterine veins had been gently filled with red size injection. This preparation was submitted to the same mode of dissection. In tracing those veins which passed to the inner surface of the uterus, near the middle of the placenta, the injection was seen to be continued from them into oblique, wide, but shallow channels, leading through the external de- cidua into the placental decidua, and had thence been diffused through the fine spongy cellular tissue which everywhere surrounds and supports the foetal capillaries. On comparing these appearances with my first dissection, I perceived that the uterine vein, opposite the mouth of which I had supposed the decidua to be wanting, and whose orifice was in contact with the capillaries of the placenta, was in reality one of the oblique decidual canals, returning the blood from the cellular substance of the placenta into the uterine vein, its continuity with which had been preserved. The continuation of the uterine veins into decidual canals was much more distinct ia those which terminated near the circumference of the placenta; and here the irregular portions of injection, which filled the canals as far as the surface of the placenta, were evidently circumscribed, by distinct parietes, and not the result of confused extravasa- tion : the injection from the decidual canals had passed into the large interlobular spaces, or maternal sinuses of the placenta, and thence had become diffused, generally for the extent of an inch, into the spongy or cellular texture of the placenta. The uterine arteries in this case had not been injected, but were easily traceable passing through the external and placental decidua, as far as the internal surface of the latter, and apparently opening or being lost on the spongy surface of the placenta. With reference to preparations of vascular and cellular structures like the placenta, it is not easy to enforce conviction from the appearances they present, in consequence of the difficulty of distinguishing between natural and accidental extravasation. Having, however, carefully compared the Hunterian preparations with the results of my own examinations of the gravid uterus at the full period, I now believe they all fully bear out Mr. Hunter’s general view, viz. that the maternal blood is diffused, by means of the tortuous arteries, into the spongy cellular substance of the placenta, where