459 OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. ing several sounds. They give a sound when flying, which they can vary according to circumstances. One accustomed to bees can imme- diately tell when a bee makes an attack by the sound. These are pro- bably made by the wings. They may be seen standing at the door of their hive> with the belly rather raised, and, moving their wings, making a noise. But they produce a noise independent of their wings; for if a bee is smeared all over with honey, so as to make the wings stick toge- ther, it will be found to make a noise which is shrill and peevish. To ascertain this further, I held a bee by the legs with a pair of pincers, and observed it then made the peevish noise, although the wings were perfectly still: I then cut the wings off*, and found it made the same noise. I examined it in water, but it then did not produce the noise till it was very much teased, and then it made the same kind of noise, and I could observe the water, or rather the surface of contact of the water, with the air at the mouth of an air-hole at the root of the wing, vibrating. I have observed that they, or some of them, make a noise the evenings before they swarm, which is a kind of ring, or sound of a small trumpet: by comparing it with the notes of the piano-forte, it seemed to be the same with the lower A of the treble. Of the Female Parts. I may here observe that insects differ from most of the classes of ani.. mals above them in having their eggs formed in the ducts along which they pass, not in a cluster on the back, as in some fish (for instance, all of the ray kind, or what are called the amphibia), in the bird, and as is supposed in the quadruped ; from thence the eggs are taken up, and by the ducts are carried along to their places of destination. Of the Oviducts. The female of the common bee, similar to all the females of the bee tribe, has six oviducts on each side, beginning by very small and almost imperceptiblte threads, as high as the chest; they then form one cord coiled up, or j)ass very serpentine, and become larger and larger as they approach the anus, owing to the gradual increased size of the eggs in * [This supposition, that the ova of the mammalia are formed in the ovaria, i. e. in a cluster attached to the dorsal aspect of the abdomen, and not in the ducts along which they pass, is now proved incontestably by the researches of V. Baer and other pliysiolo^sts.]