132 ON ANIMALS PRODUCING HEAT. EXPERIMENTS. Experiment I. was made on two carp. These were put into a glass vessel with common river water, which was placed in the freezing mix- ture. The water not freezing fast enough, fo hasten that effect as much cooled snow was added as to render the whole thick. The snow round the carp melting, we put in more fresh snow, which, melting also, was repeated several times, till we grew tired, and at last left them covered up in the yard to freeze by the joint operation of the sur- rounding mixture and the natural cold of the atmosphere^. They were frozen at last, after having exhausted the whole powers of life in the production of heat. That this was really the case, could not be known till I had completed that part of the experiment for which the whole was begun, viz. the thawing of the animals. It was done very gradu- ally ; but the animals did not, with flexibility, recover life; and while in this cold, showed signs of great uneasiness by their violent motions. N.B. In some of these experiments, where air was made the conductor of the cold and heat, that the heat might be more readily carried off from the animal, a leaden vessel was used. It was small for the same reason; and as it was necessary for the animal’s respiration that the mouth of the vessel should communicate with the open air, it was made deep, that the cold of the atmosphere round the animal might not be diminished too quickly by the warmth of the open air, which would have spoiled it as a conductor. Experiment II. was upon a dormouse, the vessel in which it was con- fined being sunk in the cold mixture almost to its edge. The atmo- sphere round the animal soon cooled; its breath froze as it came from the mouth; a hoar-frost gathered on its whiskers, and on all the inside of the vessel, and the external points of the hair became covered with the same. While this was going on the animal showed signs of great uneasiness ; sometimes it would coil itself into a round form, to preserve its extremities and confine its heat; and finding that ineffectual, would then endeavour to make its escape*. Its motions became less violent * This shows that cold carried to a great degree rather rouses than depresses the animal action ; but it appears, from many circumstances and observations, that a certain degree of cold produces inactivity both in the living and sensative principle, which will be further illustrated hereafter. * [This experiment is alluded to by Dr. Blagden, who observes, “ The power of ge- nerating heat seems to attend life very universally. Not to mention other w'ell-known experiments, Mr. Hunter found a carp preserve a coat of fluid water round him long after all the rest of the water in the vessel had been congealed by a very strong freez- ing mixture.”—Phil. Trans., Ixv. p. 122.]