436 OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. the better; however, this rule is not strictly observed, for often they are horizontal, and towards the lower edge of a plane of comb they are often declining. The first combs that a hive forms are the smallest, and much neater than the last or lowermost. Their sides or partitions between cell and cell are much thinner, and the hexagon is much more perfect. The wax is purer, being probably little else but wax, and it is more brittle. The lower combs are considerably larger, and contain much more wax, or perhaps, more properly, more materials; and the cells are at such distances as to allow them to be of a round figure: the wax is softer, and there is something mixed with it. I have ob- served that the cells are not all of equal size, some being a degree larger than the others; and that the small are the first formed, and of course at the upper part where the bees begin, and the larger are nearer the lower part of the comb, or last made: however, in hives of particu- lar construction, where the bees may begin to work at one end, and can work both down and towards the other end, we often find the larger cells both on the lower part of the combs and also at the opposite end. These are formed for the males to be bred in ; and in the hornets’ and wasps’ combs there are larger cells for the queens to be bred in: these are also formed in the lower tier, and the last formed. The first comb made in a hive is all of one colour, viz. almost white; but it is not so white towards the end of the season, having then more of a yellow cast. Of the Royal Cell. There is a cell which is called the royal cell, often three or four of them, sometimes more; I have seen eleven, and even thirteen in the same hive; commonly they are placed on the edge of one or more of the combs, but often on the side of a comb; however, not in the centre along with the other cells, like a large one placed among the others, but often against the mouths of the cells, and projecting out beyond the common surface of the comb; but most of them are formed from the edge of the comb, which terminates in one of these cells. The royal cell is much wider than the others, but seldom so deep: its mouth is round, and appears to be the largest half of an oval in depth, and is | declining downwards, instead of being horizontal or lateral. The ma- terials of which it is composed are softer than common wax, rather like , the last mentioned, or those of which the lower edge of the plate of , comb is made, or with which the bees cover the chrysalis : they have |