150 ON ANIMALS PRODUCING HEAT. To ascertain the comparative degree of heat between a living and a dead egg, and also to determine whether a living egg be subject to the same laws with the more imperfect animals, I made the following ex- periments. Experiment XLIV. A fresh egg, and one which had been frozen and thawed, were put into the cold mixture at 15°: the thawed one soon came to 32°, and began to swell and congeal; the fresh one sunk to 29-1-°, and in twenty-five minutes later than the dead one it rose to 32°, and began to swell and freeze. In this experiment the effect on the fresh egg was similar to that produced on the frog, eel, snail, &c., where life allowing the heat to be diminished two or three degrees below the freezing point, afterwards re- sisted all further decrease; but the powers of life being expended by this exertion, the parts froze like any other dead animal matter. From these experiments it appears that a fresh egg has the power of resisting heat, cold, and putrefaction in a degree equal to many of the more imperfect animals ; and it is more than probable this power arises from the same principle in both. From the circumstance of those imperfect animals (upon which I made my experiments) varying their heat so readily, we may conclude that heat is not so very essential to life in them as in the more perfect; although it be essential to many of the operations, or what may be called the secondary actions of life, such as digesting food* and pro- pagating the species, both which, especially the last, requiring the greatest powers an animal can exert. The animals which we call im- perfect being chiefly employed in the act of digestion, we may suppose their degree of heat to be only what that action requires; it not being essentially necessary for the life of the animal that heat should ever rise so high in them as to call forth the powers necessary for the propaga- tion of the species f. Whenever therefore these imperfect animals are * How far this idea holds good with fishes, I am not certain. f The hedgehog may be called a truly torpid animal; and we find that its actual heat is diminished when the actions are not vigorous *. From a general review of this * [The experiments by which this important fact was established are those numbered I. and II., page 143. They were made after the publication of the original memoir in the Philosophical Transactions, in which the note consequently commences thus: “How far the animal heat is lowered in the more perfect animals, when these secondary actions are not necessary, as in the bai, hedgehog, bear, &c., I have not been able to determine, not having the opportunities of examining these animals. Dormice are in a mixed state, between the voluntary and involuntary, and we find the heat diminished when the actions are not vigorous; and, from a general review of this whole subject, it would appear that a certain degree of heat in the animal is necessary for digestion, and that necessary heat will be according to the nature of the animal.”—Phil Trans, 1778,p. 91.