CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 261 fibre being 8 chain of cells does not account for any one phenomenon attending muscular motion, and is directly contradicted by two circum- stances attending muscular contraction : the first of these is the muscle becoming rather less than larger in its contraction, which is just contrary to what must have happened if the contraction had been owing to that cause ; the second is, that a muscle is capable of contracting much more than one third of its length, and indeed, as far as we yet know, having no limitation, which could not possibly happen if they were tubes capable of receiving foreign matter into their cavities ; for according to that idea, a muscular fibre should become thicker in its contraction in proportion as the diameter of a sphere is greater than that of a cylinder of the same area, which would be an immense increase. Although a muscle becomes on the whole somewhat less in its con- traction, and has its ends brought considerably nearer together, yet it cannot be called attraction, for there is nearly the same reason for sup- posing a lateral repulsion, as the muscle swells out laterally almost as much as it contracts in the other direction. I do suppose that a muscular fibre is not one uniform body from end to end, but is made up of parts, which may be called the component parts of a muscular fibre; and I am apt to suppose that a change takes place in the position of those parts, during contraction, and this alteration diminishes the extent of those parts in one direction while it is increas- ing them in the other, although from the experiments it appears not to be in the same proportion; but what that alteration is I shall not pretend to determine^. mole-cricket. Some physiologists suppose that the transverse striae result from the la- teral apposition of the knots on the parallel fibrillae. The muscular fibres of the mol- lusca and radiata, and the involuntary muscular fibres of the vertebrata, with the excep- tion of those developed in the vascular layer of the germ disc, as the fibres of the heart, do not present the striated character.} ® [According to the observations of Hales {Hcemnstatics, p»59.), and of Prevostand Dumas (Magendie, Journal de Physiologie, iii. p. 301.), the change in the muscular fibre, at the moment of contraction, is from a straight to a zigzag line: the observation has been generally made on the rectilinear parallel fibres of one of the thin abdominal mus- cles (the rectus) of a young frog, stimulated to contract while under the microscope ; and the conclusion is admitted as an established fact in the most recent works on physiology. I have been led to doubt this fact, from observing the contraction of the muscular fibres in small Filarice (such as commonly infest the abdominal cavity of the cod), and more especially from observing the contraction of the retractor muscles of the tentacles of a species of Vesicularia of Vaughan Thompson, a compound polype-like animal, which, under the guise of a Sertularia manifests a much higher type of organization. Here each separate fibre of the retractor muscles is seen with great distinctness, and is cha- racterized by a single knot or swelling in the middle. In the act of retracting the ten- tacles the fibres become shorter and thicker, especially at the central knot, but do not fall out of the straight line. After the retraction has been effected, the fibres fall into