ON THE GILLAROO-TROUT. 127 fore, one single organ answers both to the teeth and stomach of gra- nivorous quadrupeds, and consequently the gizzard alone of birds will as clearly point out the food of the species as both teeth and stomach together, in those animals in which the two offices of mastication and digestion are not performed together in the same part. As it appears to be the difference of stomachs only that fits birds for their different kinds of food, as there is little difference in construction, excepting only in strength; and as the food of the different species is of every kind, from the hardest grain to the softest animal matter, we may conclude that every gradation of the stomach is to be found among them, from the true gizzard, which is one extreme, to the mere mem- branous stomach, which is the other. In consequence of this, it must be as difficult to determine the exact limits of the two different modes of construction to which the names of gizzard and stomach specifically belong, as, in any other case, to distinguish proximate steps in the slow and imperceptible gradations of Nature. The two extremes of true gizzard and membranous stomach are easily defined; but they run so into each other, that the end of one and the beginning of the other is quite imperceptible. Similar gradations are observable in the food: the kinds suited to the two extremes mixing together in different proportions adapted to the intermediate states of stomach. A true gizzard is composed of two strong muscles, placed opposite and acting upon each other, like two broad grindstones. These muscles are joined together at their sides by a middle tendon, into which the muscular fibres are inserted, and which forms the narrow anterior and posterior sides of the flat quadrangular cavity in which the grinding is performed. The upper end of this cavity is occupied by the termina- tion of the oesophagus, and the beginning of the intestine. The lower end consists of a thin muscular bag connecting the edges of the two muscles together. By these two more soft and flexible substances being thus interposed between the two strong grinding muscles a double advantage is gained ; for, whilst one gives an easy passage to the oesophagus and gut, when both act together they serve in some degree as a hinge, on which the two muscles may be said to move, by the middle tendon allowing of a free motion of the grinding surfaces on each other, which is necessary for the comminution of food. The two flat lateral sides of the grinding cavity are lined with a thick horny substance, similar to a hard and thick cuticle; the narrow ante- rior and posterior tendinous parts are also lined with a cuticle, but not so strong as the former ; this horny substance is gradually lost at one