OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. 431 breeding or incubation, and nursed to the age of taking care of itself, cannot be said to have a period in which we can begin its natural hi- story ; but in some other insects there is such a period, for they can be traced from an egg, becoming totally independent of the parent from the moment of being laid, as the silk-worm, &c. There are three periods at which the history of the bee may commence: first, in the spring, when the queen begins to lay her eggs; in the summer, at the com- mencement of a new colony; or in the autumn, when they are going into winter-quarters. I shall begin the particular history of the bee with the new colony, when nothing is formed ; for it then begins every- thing that can possibly happen afterwards. When a hive sends off a colony it is commonly in the month of June ; but that will vary according to the season, for in a mild spring bees sometimes swarm in the middle of May, and very often at the latter end of it. Before they come off they commonly hang about the mouth of the hole or door of the hive for some days, as if they had not suffi- cient room within for such hot weather, which I believe is very much the case; for if cold or wet weather come on, they stow themselves very well, and wait for fine weather. But swarming appears to be rather an operation arising from necessity, for they would seem not naturally to swarm, because if they have an empty space to fill, they do not swarm ; therefore by increasing the size of the hive, the swarm- ing is prevented. This period is much longer in some than in others. For some evenings before they come off, is often heard a singular noise, a kind of ring, or sound of a small trumpet; by comparing it with the notes of the piano-forte, it seemed to be the same sound with the lower A of the treble. The swarm commonly consists of three classes; a female, or females*, males, and those commonly called mules, which are supposed to be of no sex, and are the labourers; the whole about two quarts in bulk, making about six or seven thousand. It is a question that cannot easily be determined, whether this old stock sends off entirely young of the same season, and whether the whole of their young ones, or only part. As the males are entirely bred in the same season, part go off; but part must stay, and most probably it is so with the others. They com- monly come off in the heat of the day, often immediately after a shower; who takes the lead I do not know, but should suppose it was the queen. When one goes off they all immediately follow, and fly about seemingly in great confusion, although there is one principle actuating the whole. They soon appear to be directed to some fixed place, such as the * I have reason to believe that never more than one female comes off with a swarm.