129 ON THE GILLAROO-TROUT. eating power necessary to fit it for its passage either into the stomach or through the intestines; and accordingly we find in certain fish a structure suited to the purpose. Thus the mouth of the wolf-fish is almost paved with teeth, by means of which it can break shells to pieces and fit them for the oesophagus of the fish, and so effectually disengage the food from them, that though it lives upon such hard food, the stomach does not differ from that of other fish; the organs of mastication and digestion, therefore, in this animalj exactly correspond to those of many granivorous quadrupeds. Other fish, on the contrary, approach nearer to the structure of birds by having their stomach furnished to a certain degree with a masticating power, which in many is very imperfect compared with the gizzards of fowls. Perhaps the difference is only what the difference of food will properly allow; as in fish which have this power, the food being still animal, and in general but imperfectly covered with the shell, it pro- bably requires only to be broken, perhaps hardly that, for the mere pur- poses of digestion, as food is digested when introduced into the stomach in silver balls with only a few small holes, but it may be necessary to fit the shells for passing along the intestines after the fish is digested. In the Bulla lignaria of Linnaeus this apparatus is more perfect, consist- ing of two bones, which we must suppose capable of grinding hard shells; but the food of granivorous birds requires to be ground into a kind of meal. Of all the fish I have seen, the mullet is the most complete instance of this structure, its strong muscular stomach being evidently adapted, like the gizzard of birds, to the two offices of mastication and digestion. The stomach of the fish now before us holds the second place. But still neither of these stomachs can be justly ranked as gizzards, since they want some of the most essential characters, viz. a power and motion fitted for grinding, and the horny cuticle^. The stomach of the Gillaroo-trout is, however, more globular than that of most fish, better adapted for small food, and endued with sufficient strength to break the shells of small shell-fish; which will probably be best done by having more than one in the stomach at a time, and also by taking pretty large and smooth stones into the stomach, which will answer the i3urpose of breaking, but not so well that of grinding, nor will they hurt the stomach, as they are smooth, when swallowed ; but this stomach can scarcely possess any power of grinding, as the whole cavity is lined with a fine villous coat, the internal surface of which appears everywhere to be digestive, and by no means fitted for mastication. ^ [We have examined the gizzard of the mullet {Mugil Capito, Cuv.), and find that it is lined by a distinct layer of rough and easily separable cuticle.] VOL. IV. K