OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE 354 It would appear, that they do not shed their teeth, nor have they new ones formed similar to the old, as is the case with most other qua- drupeds, and also with the alligator. I have never been able to detect young teeth under the roots of the old ones ; and indeed the situation in which they are first formed makes it in some degree impossible, if the young teeth follow the same rule in growing with the original ones, as they probably do in most animals. If it is true that the whale tribe do not shed their teeth, in what way are they supplied with new ones corresponding in size with the increased size of the jaw ? It would appear that the jaw, as it in- creases posteriorly, decays at the symphysis, and while the growth is going on, there is a constant succession of new teeth, by which means the new-formed teeth are proportioned to the jaw. The same mode of growth is evident in the elephant, and in some degree in many fish ; hut in these last the absorption of the jaw is from the whole of the out- side along where the teeth are placed. The depth of the alveoli seems to prove this, being shallow at the back part of the jaw, and becoming deeper towards the middle, where they are the deepest, the teeth there having come to the full size. From this forwards they are again be- coming shallower, the teeth being smaller, the sockets wasting, and at the symphysis there are hardly any sockets at all. This will mal^e the exact number of teeth in any species uncertain. Some genera of this tribe have another mode of catching their food, and retaining it till swallowed, which is by means of the substance called whalebone. Of this there are two kinds known; one very large, probably from the largest whale yet discovered; the other from a smaller species^. This whalebone, which is placed on the inside of the mouth, and at- tached to the upper jaw, is one of the most singular circumstances be- longing to this species, as they have most other parts in common with quadrupeds. It is a substance, I believe, peculiar to the whale, and of the same nature as horn, which I shall use as a term to express what constitutes hair, nails, claws, feathers, &c.; it is wholly composed of animal substance, and extremely elastic*. Whalebone consists of thin plates of some breadth, and in some of very considerable length, their breadth and length in some degree cor- responding to one another ; and when longest they are commonly the broadest, but not always so. (Plate L.) These plates are very dif- * From this it must appear, that the term bone is an improper one. [The largest species of whale yet discovered is distinguished by the smali-si/.ed baleen-plates, and is the BaLcnopfera Boops, as was before obseiwed.]