OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. 87 animals, or both, and a solvent admitted as an agent in digestion, it only- remained to prove, that the effect of the process of digestion -was to produce from these various substances an animal matter, similar in all animals who live on such substances. But the application of principles requires more than simply the knowledge of the principle itself, and therefore those who cannot reason from analogy, or draw general con- clusions from a few convincing facts, and who require to have every rela- tive conclusion or inference proved by an experiment, must be pleased with Spallanzani; but he must tire even those whom he informs, and much more those who read his works in expectation of something new. To make comparative experiments upon the digestive power, the dif- ferent animals destined for that purpose should be under similar circum- stances as far as relates to digestion; they should be equal in age, for the growing eat more than the full-grown, and of course digest faster; which point, therefore, can be best ascertained by selecting those in each class of animals which have attained their full growth. They should be equal in fatness, for this makes a very material difference in the powers of digestion in the same animal; and they should be equal in health, a circumstance which, of all others, probably makes the greatest difference in the powers of the stomach. In comparing animals of the same class, the atmosphere should likewise be of the same tem- perature ; for the different classes of animals are variously affected by the same degree of heat. Experiments made upon snakes and lizards in the winter will differ greatly from those made in the summer, while similar experiments made on dogs will have nearly the same result in both seasons. Nor will the powers of the stomach be found always equal in the same class. Sleeping animals of the quadruped kind, as hedgehogs, do not digest in the winter, but in the summer only; there- fore the conclusions to be drawn from experiments made respecting the digestive powers in the one, are not at all applicable to those made in the other season. Spallanzani observed that the snake digested food faster in June, when the heat was at 82° and 83°, than in April, when it was only 60°; from whence he concludes, that heat assists digestion; but this heat is not the immediate, but the remote cause of the increased power; heat having produced in the animal greater necessity for nourishment, and of course greater powers, gastric juice was secreted faster or in greater quantity. As a proof that heat does not act as an immediate, but only as a re- mote cause in assisting digestion, I shall mention the effect it produced upon a hedgehog, the subject of Mr. Jenner’s third experiment on the heat of that animal, related in another part of this work*. * Vide page 143.