PREFACE. X Most of the enlightened physiologists of this country have acknowledged the high merit and beneficial influence of Hun- ter’s labours ; but the general terms in which his merits have been expressed have not availed in raising him from the second- ary category of contributors to comparative anatomy, in which he has been classed by Cuvier, and from which some continental writers have lately been disposed to degrade him^. The present seems, therefore, to be a fitting opportunity to attempt to define the grounds for assigning a higher station to Hunter, considered as a physiologist and comparative anato- mist. In this endeavour, however, to prove what Hunter was as a discoverer, we must also fairly state what he was not. He has been spoken of as the originator of the idea of a subtle imponderable principle operating in the fluids and solids of the organism, and causing the phaenomena of life. 11 ut such a prin- ciple, under various names and with various attributes, has been assigned as the cause of organization by Aristotle, Harvey, Willis, Cudworth, Grew, Van Helmont, and Stahl. As both Harvey and Hunter had spent laborious lives in earnest inquiries and repeated dissections and experiments, to ascertain relations between structure and function; as both had studied the changes which take place in the form and structure of animals from their embryo state to that of maturity; and as both had carefully traced the successive phaenomena which oc- cur in the egg during incubation,—the similarity of their opi- nions on the nature and powers of the vital principle is corre- spondingly close. Both arrived at the conclusion, that an animating principle exists and operates in the ovum prior to the formation of any organ of the future animal. Both attributed the power by which the fecund egg resists putrefaction, while the unprolific one decomposes, to a principle of life, which Harvey more pre- cisely terms the ‘‘anima vegetivaf.” * See the Esquisse Historique sur VAnatomie Comparh, prefixed to the French translation of the second edition of Cams’ Comparative Anatomy, vol. i. p. XXX. f “ Plurimum itaque mecum ipse reputavi, qui fieret, ut ova improlifica gal- linae supposita, ah eodem calore extraneo corrumpantiir, putrescant, et foetida cvadant; ovis aiitem foecundis idem non contingat.*’ Harveii De Generatione Animalium Exercitatio 22.