14 OF THE SITUATION OF THE TESTIS IN THE FCETUS. the foetus the epididymis begins at the upper end of the testis; and it is natural, considering it is an excretory tube, that it should run down- wards. And it is as natural that the rest of the tube, which is called vas deferens, should turn inwards at the lower end of the testis, because that is its most direct course to the neck of the bladder. Thus we see that in the foetus the excretory duct is always passing downwards. But the testis is directed in its descent by the gubernaculum, which is firmly fixed to the lower parts of the testis and epididymis, and to the beginning of the vas deferens, and thence must keep those parts invari- ably in their situation with respect to one another; and therefore in proportion as the testis descends the vas deferens must ascend from the lower end of the testis; and it must, from the passage through the abdominal muscles down to the testis, run parallel with the spermatic vessels. “ The testis, its coats, and the spermatic chord are so often concerned in some of the most important diseases and operations of surgery, par- ticularly in the bubonocele and hydrocele, that their structure has been examined and described by the surgeons, as well as by the anatomists, of every age. Yet the descriptions of the clearest and best writers upon the subject differ so much from one another, and many of them differ so much from what is obvious and demonstrable by dissection, as to ren- der it difficult to account for such a variety of opinions. The very different state of the parts in the quadruped and in the human body, no doubt, must have occasioned error and confusion among the writers of more ancient times, when the parts of the human body were described from dissections and observations made principally upon brutes: and the stnicture of parts, which are peculiar to the foetus, having been im- perfectly understood, we may suppose, has likewise contributed to cause perplexity and contradiction among authors. “ Baron Haller, in his Opuscula Pathologica, has observed that in infants the intestine sometimes falls down into the scrotum after the testis, or along with it, and occasions what he calls the hernia conge- nita. In such a case the hernial sac is formed before the intestine falls down, as that ingenious anatomist has observed. There are, besides, two circumstances peculiar to a rupture of this kind, the intestine being always in immediate contact with the testis, and there being no tunica vaginalis propria testis. The structure of the parts in a foetus explains in the most satisfactory manner both these circumstances, however ex- traordinary they must appear to a man who has only been accustomed to view the parts in subjects of a more advanced age; and indeed it is so clear that it needs no illustration. It should be observed, however, that the hernia congenita may happen not only by the intestine falling down to the testis before the aperture of the sac be shut up, but perhaps