100 OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. the round ligament, as far as to the going out of the iliac vessels, which' it seemed to accompany; and this canal, when it passed from behind Poupart’s ligament, communicated with the tumour above mentioned. I then endeavoured to discover if there were any communication between the rectum and the abscess, but could find none, the gut appearing to be quite sound. Having removed the whole contents of the pelvis, with the canal leading to Poupart’s ligament, and the ligament itself, with such of the abdominal muscles as composed part of the sac, I found both the rectum and vagina perfectly sound. The uterus had a polypus forming on its inside ; neither the rectum nor uterus had any connexion with the abscess; but there was a small communication between the abscess and the bladder, that portion of the bladder which made part of the abscess being very much diseased. From this history of the appearances of the tumour before death, and the particular account I have given of the dissection, the reader may be able to draw his own conclusions relative to the origin of the air. It certainly appeared to have been formed in this bag; and it was only towards the latter end of her life that it could have made its escape into the cavity of the bladder, for it was not possible to squeeze the air out of the tumour when I first saw her; but just before death it became more flaccid. It could not be formed or let loose, in consequence of putre- faction, for the air itself was free from any smell; and although the cavity between the vagina and bladder had on its internal surface the irregular ulcerated appearance of an abscess, yet that on the abdomen had not, was tolerably smooth, and had rather the appearance of having been formed in consequence of some foreign matter accumulating there. This circumstance, of an animal having the power of forming air, or separating it from the juices by a kind of secretion, appears at first view to be supported by the experiments of Dr. Ingenhousz*. The Doctor observed, that when we immerse our bodies ** in a cold or warm bath,” or “ by plunging the hand and arm even in cold water,” globules of air soon appear upon the skin; and to be certain of the air coming from the body, he took all the necessary precautions to pre- vent the external air being carried into the water along with the body (which would certainly be a consequence if the body or part were im- mersed quickly, or when dried). But although his experiments seem to prove this opinion, yet I imagine there is a circumstance the Doctor did not attend to at the time, which renders them very fallacious; for he did not consider that water for the most part contains a great deal of air; therefore the globules of air might as readily come from the water as ♦ Experiments upon Vegetables, proving t|ieir great power of purifying the common air, &c.