64 ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE PLACENTA. hardly any appearance of connecting membrane; but we cannot readily suppose it to be without such a membrane, as there is so much regu- larity in its texture. The cells, or interstices of each lobe, communicate with one another, even much more freely than those of the cellular membrane in any other part of the body; so that whatever fluid will pass in at one part, readily diffuses itself through the whole mass of lobe ; and all the cells of each lobe have a communication at the common base. This structure of the placenta, and its reciprocal communication with the two bodies with which it is immediately connected, form the union between the mother and foetus for the support of the latter. Prior to the time I have mentioned above, anatomists seem to have been wholly unacquainted with the true structure of placenta. By notes taken from Dr. Hunter’s lectures, in the winter 1755-6, it appears that he expressed himself in the following manner*. “The substance of the placenta is a fleshy mass, which seems to be formed entirely of the vessels of the umbilical rope.” In another part, mentioning the appearances when injected, he says : “ and upon a slight putrefaction coming on, you will find the whole appearing like a mass of ves.Sels”: then says, “ there is always a white uninjected substance between the vessels ; but whether lymphatics or what I cannot tell.” This uninjected substance, men- tioned by Dr. Hunter, is what forms the cellular structure. The placenta seems to be principally composed of the ramifications of the vessels of the embryo, and may have been originally formed in consequence of those next to the uterus laying hold by a species of animal attraction of the coagulable lymph which lines the uterus. It might take place in a manner resembling what happens when the root of a plant spreads on the surface of moist bodies, with this difference, that in the present instance the vessels form the substance through which they ramify, as in the case of granulations. At the time, or perhaps before, the female seed enters the uterus, coagulable lymph, from the blood of the mother, is thrown out every- where on its inner surface, either from the stimulus of impregnation taking place in the ovarium, or in consequence of the seed being ex- pelled from it. But I think the first the most probable supposition; for we find in extra-uterine cases that the decidua is formed in the uterus, although the ovum never enters it, which is a proof that it is produced by the stimulus of impregnation in the ovarium, and that it is prior to the entrance of the ovum into the uterus. When it has en- * These quotations were taken from Mr. Galhie’s MS. of Dr. Hunter’s lectures, who is one of the gentlemen that favoured Dr. Hunter, upon a former occasion, with the use of his notes. See Dr. Hunter’s Commentaries.