ON THE COLOUR OF THE PIGMENTUM OF THE EYE. 279 The variation in the colour of the pigmentum in different species of animals seems to depend on a fixed law of Nature; but the varieties which are met with in the same species are much less constant, being merely different shades approaching to black or white. But the extra- ordinary circumstance is its being sometimes unusually lighter or darker in individuals of the same species; and this difference not seldom start- ing up in the young without any hereditary-principle to account for it. The human species is a striking example of the colour of the pigmen- tum corresponding with that of the skin and hair; and though the skin and hair of one person differs very considerably from the skin and hair of another, yet it is not in so great a degree as in many animals. There are cattle perfectly white, white sheep, white dogs, white cats and rab- bits ; but there are few of the human species that we can say are per- fectly white. They rather pass from the black into the brown, red, and even light yellow; and we find this pigmentum, although only of one colour, varying through all the different corresponding shades. In the African negro, the blackness of whose hair and skin are great distin- guishing characteristics, this pigmentum is also very black. In the mu- latto, who has not the skin so dark as the African, but the hair nearly as black, this pigmentum is of a shade not quite so deep; yet still it does not approach so near to the middle tint as the skin, rather follow- ing the colour of the hair. In ]3eople of a swarthy complexion, as In- dians, Turks, Tartars, Moors, &c. we find the hair always of a jet black, and this substance of a much darker brown than in those that are fair. In those of very dark complexions, and having very black hair, although descended from fair parents, the same thing holds good. There are few species of animals, or even individuals of a species, whose bodies are only of one colour. Crows and some others, are exceptions; but the greatest number are of two or more, being variously spotted or streaked either with different colours, or with shades of the same. Many species are constantly lighter in some parts of the body than in others; and, with a few exceptions, animals are generally lighter, as to colour, on the lower, or what may be called the foreparts, than on the upper or backparts. The fair man or woman may strictly be considered as a spotted or variegated animal. In many persons the hair of the head, eyebrows, eyelashes, beard, and hair on the pubes, all vary in co- lour. The hair of the three first may be called foetal, and are oftener all of the same than of a different colour; the two last are to be con- sidered as adult hair, and are commonly alike in colour, which yet fre- all deviations from the original must be a falling off; it appears just the contrary, there- fore we may suppose that Nature is improving her works, or at least has established the principle of improvement in the body as well as in the mind.