CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 257 When a muscle acts, it increases in thickness, and becomes visibly firmer in texture, therefore each component fibre of the muscle must be supposed to undergo the same change; and many experiments have been made to ascertain whether this increase of thickness in a muscular fibre is in proportion to its decrease in length, but hitherto without effect: probably the only method of ascertaining this fact is, to determine whether a muscle in the state of contraction is really increased or di- minished in its bulk. Haller, in his Elements of Physiology, asks the following questions : “ Does a muscle really increase in bulk in its action ? As a muscle, when it acts, becomes shorter, and swells, we may next ask. Do these two changes, contraction and dilatation, compensate each other ? that is. Is there the same quantity of matter in it at both these periods ? Or does a muscle in action really lose in its size ? or does it gain in bulk what it loses in length ? Both sides of the question have had their ad- vocates.” Borelli, to find out whether a muscle really had an addition of new matter in its contracted state, and thereby became heavier, made the following experiment: » He placed a naked man upon a table suspended upon a point, w'hich supported it directly under his buttocks, in which situation he was per- fectly balanced. He w'^as then desired to act with the muscles of the lower extremities, but he still kept his balance, no change taking place in the equilibrium. (Borelli, vol. ii. p. 39.) This experiment was made most probably upon the supposition that some additional matter was to flow from the brain along the nerves, or from the heart along the vessels to the muscles of the extremities, so as to render the upper part lighter, and the lower part heavier. If it was to come from the brain, it was conceiving the supposed animal spirits to be heavier than air, of all of which we are wholly ignorant. The celebrated experiments of Goddard, Glisson, and Swammerdam are quoted, to prove that muscles lose in their bulk while in action. They put a muscle or a whole limb into a glass vessel, and filled it up with water; they then made all the muscles act at once; or if a single muscle, they irritated the nerve, and made it contract, during which time they attended to the motion in the water, and its rising or falling ' was to determine whether the size of the muscle was increased or di- minished. Swammerdam, in trying this experiment with a single muscle (the heart of a frog), saw the water sink in the contraction of that muscle, and rise in its relaxation. ' The result of this experiment has been very differently explained. VOL. IV. s