OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. 114 state of the faeces will depend on the nature of the indigestible part oh the food, and must be different according to the digestive powers in dif- ferent animals. An animal that feeds upon grass has the faeces much softer than when fed on the same kind of grass made into hay; and therefore the faeces of the herbivorous animals are softer in the summer than the winter; but green vegetable food does not produce soft faeces in all animals, for the caterpillar, which lives upon the leaves of vege- tables, has its faeces almost dry; and we find in some ruminating ani- mals, as sheep, that the difference in the faeces during summer and winter is inconsiderable. The quadrupeds and birds that live principally upon vegetables generally have their caeca large and the colon long, as we see in many of the ruminating animals. Some have the colon both long and large, as the horse and those of the rat tribe, which circum- stance has considerable effects in allowing the faeces to become dry: in a few of the "ruminating animals, and of the rat kind, they are formed into small portions. The faeces of quadrupeds living upon animal food are commonly soft, and in birds are fluid ; but in such as live on both animals and vegetables, they are in consistence of a mixed nature, and will be more or less soft according to the food. If a dog is fed entirely on animal substance its faeces will be soft; if wholly on vegetable, as on bread, they will become so hard as to be expelled with difficulty^. “ [The following differences were found by Dr. Prout in the contents of the rectum of dogs which had been fed on Vegetable Food. Of a firm consistence, and of an olive brown colour, inclining to yellow. Smell foetid and offensive. Did not coagulate milk. A. Water; quantity not ascertained. B. Combination or mixture of altered alimentary substances in much greater ex- cess than in the colon, with some mucus; insolul)le in acetic acid, and constituting the chief bulk of the faeces. C. Albuminous matter, none. D. Biliary principle, partly changed to a perfect resin. E. Vegetable gluten ? none; but con- tained a principle soluble in acetic acid, and precipitable very copiously by oxalate of ammonia. F. Insoluble residuum, consisting chiefly of vegetable fibres mixed with hairs. Animal Food. Consisted of firm scybala, of a dark brown colour, inclining to chocolate. Smell very foetid. Milk was coagulated by the water in which it had been diffused. A. Water; quantity not ascertained. B. Combination or mixture of altered alimentary matters in much greater excess than in either the colon or caecum, with some mucus; insoluble in acetic acid, and constituting the chief bulk of the faeces. C. Albuminous matter, none. D. Biliary principle more considerable than in the vegetable faeces, and almost entirely changed to a perfectly resinous- like substance. E. Vegetable gluten? none; but con- tained a principle soluble in acetic acid, and precipitable very copiously in oxalate of ammonia. F. Insoluble residuum, consisting chicHy of hairs,]