ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE PLACENTA. 66 membrana decidua, when traced from the parts distinct, and at a di- stance from the placenta, should be plainly seen passing into its sub- stance all round at the edges, as a continuation of it. But the fact is quite otherwise; for the decidua can be distinctly traced between the placenta and uterus, hardly ever passing between the lobuli, the vessels of the foetus never entering into it, and of course none of them ever coming in absolute contact with the uterus. But what may be con- sidered as still a stronger proof that the decidua is furnished by the uterus is, that in cases of extra-uterine conception, where the foetus is wholly in the ovarium or Fallopian tube, we find the uterus lined with the decidua, having taken on the uterine action; but no placenta, that being formed by the foetus, and therefore in the part w'hich contained it. The vessels of the foetus adhering, by the intervention of the decidua, to a certain portion of the uterus when both are yet small, as the uterus increases in every part of its surface during the time of uterine gesta- tion, we must suppose that this surface of adhesion increases also; and that by the elongation of those vessels of the foetus in every direction this substance should likewise be increased in every direction. This is in some degree the case, yet the placenta does not occupy so much of the enlarged surface of the uterus as one at first would expect. The vessels of the uterus in the time of the gestation are increased in size nearly in a proportion equal to the increased circumference of the uterus, and consequently in a proportion much greater than the real increase of its substance. But when we reflect that the uterus ought not to be considered as hollow, but as a body nearly solid, on account of its contents, which derive support from this source, and that a much greater quantity of blood must necessarily pass than what is required for the support of the viscus itself, we cannot be at a loss to account for the greatly increased size of its vessels. The arteries which are not immediately employed in conveying nou- rishment to the uterus go on towards the placenta, and, proceeding obliquely between it and the uterus, pass through the decidua without ramifying; just before they enter the placenta, after making two or three close spiral turns upon themselves, they open at once into its spongy substance without any diminution of size, and without passing beyond the surface, as above described. The intention of these spiral turns would appear to be that of diminishing the force of the circulation in the vessels as they approach the spongy substance of the placenta, and is a mechanism calculated to lessen the quick motion of the blood in a part where a quick motion was not required. These curling arteries at this termination are in general about half the size of a crow’s quill, and sometimes larger.