OF THE SITUATION OF THE TESTIS IN THE FOETUS. 11 a common hernia. The ductility of the peritoneum, and its very loose connexion by a slight cellular membrane to the psoas muscle, and all the other parts around the testis, are circumstances which favour its elongation and descent into the scrotum with the testis.” “ This peculiarity of descent often takes place in some of the intes- tines ; but can only happen in those which have adhesions to the loins. This I suspect is only to be met with in old ruptures, never happening at the first formation of the hernial sac, in which the intestine lies ; and, I should suppose, could only form very gradually. The caecum has sometimes been found to have descended into the scrotum, and to have brought along with it the adhesions through its whole course. The same thing has happened to the sigmoid flexure of the colon; and I have found the whole of it in the left side of the scrotum, with its ad- hesions brought down from the loins. Such herniae cannot be reduced; and in case of strangulation, which may be brought on by a fresh por- tion of intestine coming down, are not to be treated in the common way: the sac should not be opened, but the stricture divided, and the newly protruded part reduced. “ It is plain, from this description, that the cavity of the bag, or of the elongation of the peritoneum, which contains the testis in the scro- tum, must at first communicate with the general cavity of the abdomen by an aperture at the inside of the groin. That aperture has exactly the appearance of a common hernial sac; the spermatic vessels and vas deferens lie immediately behind it, and a probe passes readily through it from the general cavity of the abdomen down to the bottom of the scrotum. And if this process of the peritoneum be laid open through its whole length on the fore part, it will be plainly seen to be a conti- nuation of the peritoneum : the testis and epididymis will appear at the lower part of it, and the spermatic vessels and the vas deferens will be found covered by the posterior part of the bag in their whole course from the groin to the testis. “ Thus it is in the human body when the testis is recently come down; and thus it is, and continues to be through life, in every quadruped which I have examined where the testis is in the scrotum; but in the human body the communication between the sac and the cavity of the abdomen is soon cut off. Indeed I believe that the upper part of the sac natu- rally begins to contract as soon as the testis has passed through the muscles; which opinion is grounded on the following observation. In an instance where, from the age of the foetus and from every other mark, it was probable that the testis was very recently come down, and yet the upper part of the sac was very narrow, I pushed the testis upwards, in order to see if it could be returned. The attachments of the testis