388 OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE pie common to every animal inhabiting the water; more especially as I am only master of the construction and formation of the coats, and not of the size, shape, and densities of the humours; yet from reasoning we must suppose them to correspond with the shape of the eye, and the medium through which the light is to pass. Of the Parts of Generation, The parts of generation in both sexes of this order of animals come nearer in form to those of the ruminating than of any others, and this similarity is, perhaps, more remarkable in the female than in the male, for their situation in the male must vary on account of external form, as was before observed. The testicles retain the situation in which they were formed, as in those quadrupeds in which they never come down into the scrotum®. They are situated near the lower part of the abdomen, one on each side, upon the two great depressors of the tail. At this part of the ab- domen the testicles come in contact with the abdominal muscles an- teriorly^. The vasa deferentia pass directly from the epididymis behind the bladder, or between it and the rectum, into the urethra; and there are no bags similar to those called vesiculse seminales in certain other ani- mals'^. The structure of the penis is nearly the same in them all, and formed much upon the principle of the quadruped. It is made up of two crura, uniting into one corpus cavernosum, and the corpus spongiosum seems first to enter the corpus cavernosum. In the porpoise, at least, the urethra is found nearly in the centre of the corpus cavernosum; but towards the glans seems to separate or emerge from it, and becoming a distinct spongy body, runs along its under surface, as in quadrupeds. “ [In this respect however the cetacea differ from the ruminants, and resemble the elephant and the hyrax amongst the pachyderms.] ^ [At the period of sexual excitement the testes acquire a great size. In a male porpoise I found them occupying almost entirely the posterior fourth part of the abdo- minal cavity; they measured each nine inches in length and four inches in the shortest diameter, and weighed together four pounds avoirdupois. The corpus Ilighraorianum occupied the middle or axis of the gland, as in all testes which are subject to consi- derable enlargement at the period of the rut; and the membranous septa radiate from this body to the tunica albuginea.] ® [The epididymis in the porpoise is of an elongated triedral form; the broadest facet is connected by a duplicature of peritonaeum to the testes; the connexion is close, except at the lower part of the gland, where the membrane is half an inch broad. The vas deferens continues to be convoluted, as in other testiconda, to within two inches of its termination in the dilated bulbous part of the lu ethra: the lining membrane of the terminal two inches of the vas deferens is denser, and of a less glandular structure than the preceding part.]