58 DESCRIPTION OF THE UTERUS IN anatomists who have enjoyed similar opportunities of examining the uterine organs within the same period. These changes consist essentially in the effusion of fibrine or coagulable lymph from the villi of the lining membrane of the uterus, which villi also become much elongated and highly vascular; and minute vessels are continued from them into the effused lymph, forming loops or arches in that substance. This process is compared by Hunter, in the following paper, to the effusion of lymph consequent on the introduction of an extraneous living part into any of the cavities of the body: and Pro- fessor von Baer, in a recent elaborate description of the uterus of a female who drowned herself eight days after impregnation, makes the same comparison. Professor Weber, in an examination of the uterus seven days after conception, also speaks of the great vascularity of its inner surface, and describes the villi as consisting of small cylinders placed perpendicularly to the inner surface of the uterus, united by a slimy membrane, and forming together a layer of a pale soft substance, from half a line to a line in thick- ness; whilst in some places the cylinder presented the length of from two to three lines. With respect to the negative results of Mr. Hunter’s examination relative to the re- ception of the foetus in the uterus, and “ its acquisition of a visible form,” I suppose that the word ‘ foetus’ is here used to express the product of generation, or ovum, especially as it is stated, that “ in the examination of the uterus and Fallopian tubes Mr. Hunter’s chief object was the detection of the ‘ embryo.’ ” Now if the product of generation were really expected to have been seen in that state of development which we under- stand by the terms embryo and foetus, its presence was most likely overlooked; since, from the analogy of the dog and rabbit, it most probably would have existed merely as a small pellucid vesicle or ovum, supposing that it had escaped from the ovarium; and it is to be regretted that the expression “ there was found in the left ‘ ovarium’ a corpus luteum” is all the evidence on that point which the present case affords. In the bitch. Von Baer has shown that the ova pass into the Fallopian tubes on the eighth day after impregnation, and that when they reach the uterus they lie quite free in its cavity, are perfectly transparent, of a somewhat elongated form, and extremely delicate texture, and are from half a line to a third of a line in diameter. In the rabbit, the observations of De Graaf, of Pievost and Dumas, and of Coste, prove that the ova pass into the tubes the third (or, according to Coste, the second) day after impregnation; they reach the horns of the uterus on the fourth day, and are then about a line in diameter, in the form of pellucid bubbles, free and moveable. According to Home, the human ovum has reached the uterus on the eighth day after impregnation, when it is described as presenting an elliptical form, rather more than a line (-jVfT parts of an inch) in length, and parts of an inch in breadth. It is com- posed of two membranes, of which the external is of considerable thickness and con- sistence, very little transparent, quite smooth, and milk-white: the internal membrane or bag consists ‘ of a seemingly very thin, perfectly smooth, and glossy membrane, which seemed to have considerable strength.’ This internal membrane contained a thick slimy matter, like honey, and “two round corpuscles, apparently more opake, and of a yellowish tint,” regarded as “ the probable seat of the future heart and brain.” On comparing the preceding account with the observations that have been made on the mammiferous ovum, it will be found that the nearest resemblance to the supposed human ovum obtains in that of the ornithorhynchus, at least in the texture of the two membranes described, of which the external must be regarded as the chorion, the internal as the membrana vitelli. In the ornithorhynchus, as in the ovo-viviparous reptiles, the chorion is dense and unyielding; but in the specimens which we examined, and which, as in Sir Everard Home’s case, had been subjected to the action of spirit, the chorion was semitransparent, in those mammalia, however, which approximate the human species in the placental development of the foetus, the ovum, when it has been detected un-