CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 217 tary actions, and the involuntary also have their limits over the actions of the will; each therefore can only go a certain length in opposition to the other. As all animals which breathe air are probably endowed with the power of forming sounds, and as air is in common necessary for such an effect. Nature has made this air answer the purpose of sound as well as of life. For the purposes of life it was necessary the action should be kept pretty regularly constant, and therefore involuntary, because it required too much attention of the will to keep up the necessary action, and the will is not always in a state to attend to it; but for the purposes of sound it was necessary it should be at the command of the will, for sound is in some degree arbitrary; for although often attended or caused by a natural propensity at the time, yet it can be avoided, as in crying. Vocal sounds, however, do not entirely interfere with inspiration and expiration ; it is performed by the last, which must have been preceded by the first, although not with the same ease. Many other actions of the body interfere with involuntary respiration ; all violent exertions of the body are a check upon it; but then in pro- portionate the intended exertion, the voluntary supersedes the involun- tary, and they take in a proportionate quantity of air; but, both in sounds and exercise, if continued, the stimulus of necessity for a repe- tition of respiration takes place, and the person is obliged to take in a fresh supply of air, which again answers the former purpose. T/ie Colour of Muscles. Most parts of an animal body are white, and when they have any other colour it generally arises from some adventitious though neces- sary matter, as the pigment of the eye, which in many persons is black, in some green, in others white, &c.; also the pigment of the skin, which in many people is dusky in its colour. A muscle in all animals is in itself white, and its red colour found in living animals, and also immediately after death, arises from the blood; for if a red muscle be steeped in water it will become white ; or if the arteries of a part which has red muscles be injected with water till it returns by the veins, the muscles soon become white. A red muscle exposed to the air loses the Modena red, becoming florid. As the colour of muscles arises from the blood in their vessels, the muscles of every animal must have the same colour with the blood : if the blood is red, the muscle will be more or less so, according to its quantity; for in sick or unhealthy people they are pale.