357 AND CECONOxMY OF WHALES. growing, and as w^e must suppose a determined length necessary, a re- gular mode of decay must be established, not depending entirely on chance or the use it is put to. In its growth three parts appear to be formed: one from the rising core, which is the centre; a second on the outside; and a third, being the intermediate substance. These appear to have three stages of dura- tion ; for that which forms on the core I believe makes the hair, and that on the outside makes principally the plate of whalebone; this, when got a certain length, breaks off, leaving the hair projecting, becoming at the termination very brittle ; and the third, or intermediate substance, by the time it rises as high as the edge of the skin of the jaw, decays and softens away like the old cuticle of the sole of the foot when steeped in waters The use of the whalebone, I should believe, is principally for the re- tention of the food till swallowed, and do suppose the fish they catch are small when compared with the size of the mouth. The oesophagus, as in other animals, begins at the fauces, or poste- rior part of the mouth; and, although circular at this part, is soon divided into two passages by the epiglottis passing across it, as will be described hereafter. Below its attachment to the trachea, it passes down in the posterior mediastinum, at some distance from the spine, to which it is attached by a broad part of the same membrane, and its an- terior surface makes the posterior part of a cavity behind the pericar- dium. Passing through the diaphragm it enters the stomach, and is lined with a very thick, soft, and white cuticle, which is continued into the first cavity of the stomach. The inner or true coat is white, of a considerable density, and not muscular, but thrown into large longitudinal folds by the contraction of the muscular fibres of the oesophagus, which are very strong. It is very glandular; for on its inner surface, especially near the fauces, orifices of a vast number of glands are visible. The oesophagus is larger in proportion to the bulk of the animal than in the quadruped, although not so much so as it usually is in fish, which we may suppose swallow their food much in the same way. In the I piked whale it was three inches and a half wide. ; The stomach, as in other animals, lies on the left side of the body, ' and terminates in the pylorus towards the right. I * [The supplementary note appended, in the second edition of the ‘ Lemons d’Ana toinie Comparee,’ tom. hi. p. 376, to the imperfect description given by Cuvier of the I formation of the whalebone, is a mere condensation of the minute, original, and accu- i rate account in the text: to which, however, no reference is made by M. Duvernoy.]