OBSERVATIONS ON SOME FOSSIL BONES. 47*2 < The earths with which bones are most commonly incrusted are the calcareous, argillaceous, and siliceous, but principally the calcareous; and this happens in two ways : one, the bones being immersed in water in which this earth is suspended; the other, water passing through masses of this earth, which it dissolves, and afterwards deposits upon bones which lie underneath. Bones which are incrusted seem never to undergo this change in the earth, or under the water, where the soft parts w^ere destroyed; while bones that are fossilized become so in the medium in which they were deposited* at the animal’s death. The incrusted bones have been pre- viously exposed to the open air: this is evidently the case with the bones at present under consideration, those of the rock of Gibraltar, and those found in Dalmatia; and, from the account given by the Abb^ Spallanzani, those of the island of Cerigo are under the same circum- stances. They have the characters of exposed bones, and many of them are cracked in a number of places, particularly the cylindrical bones, similar to the effects of long exposure to the sun. This circumstance appears to distinguish them from fossilized bones, and gives us some in- formation respecting their history. If their numbers had corresponded with what we meet with of recent bones, we might have been led to some opinion of their mode of accu- mulation ; but the quantity exceeds anything we can form an idea of. In an inquiry into their history three questions naturally arise : Did the animals come there and die} or. Were their bodies brought there, and lay exposed ? or. Were the bones collected from different places ? The * Bones that have been buried with the flesh on acquire a stain which they never lose, and those which have been long immersed in water receive a considerable tinge. as it can be entered only in a crawling posture. This dismal and dangerous passage leads into a fifth cave, of near thirty feet high, forty-three long, and of unequal breadth. To the depth of six feet this cave has been dug, and nothing has been found but frag- ments of bones and animal mould. The sides are finely decorated with stalactites of different forms and colours; but even this stalactical crust is filled with fragments of bones sticking in it, up to the very roof. “ From this remarkable cave another very low and narrow avenue leads into the last discovered, or the “ Sixth cave, not very large, and merely covered with a stalactical crust, in which, however, here and there bones are seen sticking. And here ends this connected series of most remarkable osteolithical caverns, as far as they have been hitherto explored; many more may for what we know exist, hidden, in the same tract of hills. “ Mr. Esper has written a history in German of these caves; and given descriptions and plates of a great number of the fossil bones which have been found there. To this work we must refer for a more particular account of them.'’]