XVlll PREFACE. stant in its form and in the number of its parts; still the se- veral parts which are similar to those in a superior class may be picked out;” the skull, moreover, is too large for the brain, and the interspace is filled by a cellular membrane, which Hun- ter compares to the arachnoid. In the ^fourth class," the parts composing the brain “do not lie one upon another, but are very much detached and follow one another,” in short, are characterized by their linear arrange- ment ; a character, the accuracy of which, as applied to the Reptilia, has been confirmed by all subsequent experience. It is interesting to observe how Hunter determines the nature of these different detached masses. He says, “ The two anterior consist of the cerebrum; the two middle, I should suppose, of the nates and testes, which I take to be the middle lobes detached, because in the bird they are more underneath, not so much between the cerebrum and cerebellum; the posterior is the cerebellum, consisting of one body entirely.”* Every eminence, Hunter further observes, has a cavity or ventricle in it. The linear arrangement of the masses of the brain is com- mon both to fishes and reptiles ; but the relation of those masses to the skull, and their variable number and proportions, ac- cording to Hunter, distinguish the brain in fish. He further observes that in the crocodile the parts of the brain are more closely connected, and that the skull is more in contact with it, in which respect it comes nearer the bird than do any of the other amphibia. The brain in the \fifth class," or fowl. Hunter characterizes by its greater relative size, and the superposition of its compo- nent masses. In the ‘ sixth class," or quadrupeds, the brain is in general larger than in the preceding, and the parts more compacted, the whole mass being brought into nearly a globular figure. “ The nates and testes are four small bodies, with no visible cavities ; are not seen externally, but lie at the posterior end of the third ventricle.”f In the observations printed in the present volume on the branches of the fifth pair which are distributed to the nose and ear, we cannot fail to observe that Hunter had entered on that * Physiological Catalogue, vol. iii. p. 7. f Ibid., p. 10.