439 OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. a cell to some other, we may suppose; why they do this I cannot say; whether it is because we have been exposing this part, is not easily determined. In those new-formed combs, as also in many not half finished, we find the substance called bee-bread, and some of it is co- vered over with wax, which will be considered further. By the time they have worked above half way down the hive with the comb, they are beginning to form the larger cells, and by this time the first broods are hatched, which were small or labourers; and now they begin to breed males, and probably a queen, for a new swarm; because the males are now bred to impregnate the young queen for the present summer, as also for the next year. This progress in breeding is the same with that of the wasp, hornet, and humble bee*. Although this account is commonly allowed, yet writers on this subject have supposed another mode of producing a queen, when the hive is in possession of maggots, and deprived of their queen. What may be called the complete process of the egg, namely, from the time of laying to the birth of the bee, (that is, the time of hatch- ing,) the life of the maggot, and the life of the chrysalis, is, I believe, shorter than in most insects. It is not easy to fix the time when the eggs hatch; I have been led to imagine it was in five days. When they hatch, we find the young maggot lying coiled up in the bottom of the cell, in some degree surrounded with a transparent fluid. In many of cells, where the eggs have just hatched, we find the skin standing in its place, either not yet removed, or not pressed down by the maggot. There is now an additional employment for the labourers, namely, the feeding and nursing the young maggots. We may suppose the queen has nothing to do with this, as there are at all times labourers enough in the hive for such purposes, especially too as she never does bring the materials, as every other of the tribe is obliged to do at first; there- fore she seems to be a queen by hereditary, or rather by natural right, while the humble bee, wasp, hornet, &c. seem rather to work them- selves into royalty, or mistresses of the community. The bees are readily detected feeding the young maggot; and indeed a young mag- got might easily be brought up by any person who would be attentive to feed it. They open their two lateral pincers to receive the food, and swallow it. As they grow, they cast their coats or cuticles ; but how often they throw their coats, while in the maggot state, I do not * Reaumur on Bees says that the drone eggs, when laid in small cells, produce drones; and Wilhelmi says that it is the labourers only that lay drone eggs. Mr. Riem says that queens are never reared in any but royal cells, although males some- times in common cells; and workers in old queen ceils, but never in those recently made.