FROM NEW SOUTH WALES. 483 In collecting animals, even the name given by the natives if possible should be known, for a name to a naturalist should mean nothing but These show that it is nourished chiefly by means of oinphalo-mesenteric vessels, which ramify over a large vitelline sac. When the extremities are formed, and the uterine foetus has attained about two-thirds its size as such, an allantois is developed; the umbilical arteries co-extended Math this sac do not, however, as in the placental mammalia, pass to the chorion; but this membrane continues unorganized, as in the ovoviviparous and oviparous classes, and consequently there is no adhesion of the foetal membranes to the uterine parietes, and therefore no obstruction to the escape of the embryo (at the premature period destined for its birth) from the uterus into the va- gina. The uterus is double in all the marsupiata, and each cavity is of small size, and of a simple elongated form. In the Didelj)his dorsiyera, each os tincae opens into a long vagina, which makes a sweep outwards, and then converging towards its fellow, opens into the upper end of a cloacal passage, common to the two vaginae and the urethra. In the Virginian opossum, each vagina, before describing the outward curvature, sends down a cul-de-sac, which is closely united to the one on the opposite side, but the cavities are distinct. In the kangaroo, the two cul-de-sacs are blended together, so that the vaginae communicate together both at their commencement, and also at their termination in the meatus communis. The size of the vaginal cul-de-sacs seems to be in the ratio of the capacity of the external pouch. The embryo is adapted to its intra-marsupial existence by a precocious development of the respiratory and circulating organs, by a peculiar tubular form of the mouth, and a grooved tongue calculated to retain a firm hold on the elongated nipple; it has also a peculiar construction of the larynx, somewhat analogous to that of the whale, by which respiration may be safely continued in the foetus while the mother injects the milk down its pharynx. It would seem that the new-born marsupial is incompetent from its feeble and incomplete structure to the office of forcing a stream of milk through the long and tortuous lacteal ducts, since the mammary gland is embraced by a muscle, corresponding to the cremaster in the male, and winding in a similar manner round the marsupial bones; these therefore aid the expulsion of the milk in the female, as they do that of the se- men in the male; they also in the female add to the power of the mammary muscles in sustaining a portion of the weight of the foetus which is attached to the nipple. Many have been the conjectures respecting the final intention of the premature birth of the marsupial animal, and of the various singular modifications of structure necessitated by, and adapted to that circumstance. Since it obtains in quadrupeds of almost every variety of form, and with various modes of locomotion and diversity of diet, it must result from some more general law than individual proportions or habits of the parent. It is associated with a marked inferiority of cerebral organiza- tion ; but the final purpose will be most probably discovered to relate to some pecu- liarity in the physical geography of that portion of the globe in which the quadi’upeds almost exclusively exhibit the marsupial organization. Long-continued droughts and a scarcity of freshwater streams are amongst the most striking features of the cli- mate and territory of Australia; and when we reflect that the-principal exceptions to the marsupial organization, viz., the Ornithorhynchus and the Hydromys, or water- rat of the colonists, habitually inhabit the freshwater ponds, the pecuharities of the re-production above described may have reference to the great distances which the mammalia of New South Wales are generally compelled to traverse in order to quench their thirst.] 2 I 2