OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. 107 different from digestion, which converts both animal and vegetable sub- stances into chyle, in the formation of which there cannot be a decom- position similar to fermentation. Digestion is likewise very different from chemical solution, which is only a union of bodies by elective attraction. But digestion is an assi- milating process; and in this respect is somewhat similar in its action to that excited by morbid poisons. It is a species of generation, two substances making a third; but the curious circumstance is its convert- ing both vegetable and animal matter into the same kind of substance or compound, which no chemical process can effect. The chyle is com- pounded of the gastric juice and digestible substances when perfectly converted; and it is probable that the quantity of gastric juice may be nearly equal to that part of the food which is really changed into chyle. If so, it demonstrates the necessity of a very quick secretion, to supply a quantity so very considerable ; but with this advantage, that it is not lost to the constitution. The progress of the conversion of food into chyle may be often seen in the stomach of animals at different times after feeding. Fishes are good subjects on which to make observations for this purpose, as they swallow their food whole; and as that food is commonly fish, and often too large to be completely admitted into the stomach. As they do not masticate their food, it is not adapted to the cavity of the stomach; and therefore part of it is often found lying in the oesophagus; a circumstance by which the comparative progress of digestion is rendered more obvious. It may also be well observed in the stomach of a dog, in which the whole quantity taken has been swallowed at once. In the great end the food will be but little altered; towards the middle, more; and to- wards the pylorus it will be similar to what is found in the duodenum^. From the structure of the stomach in ruminating animals they are badly adapted to assist our inquiries on this subject, because metallic balls, or whatever is swallowed in so hard and solid a form as to be un- fit for digestion, requiring to be ruminated, will often be thrown out when returned into the mouth for that purpose; or it may lie a long time in the first stomach without being either thrown up or passed into the fourth, as I have frequently seen; therefore the chance of its get- ting into the fourth stomach in a proper time to fit it for the object of • [The cardiac and pyloric portions of the stomach possess the digestive power in very different degrees, it being much more energetic in the latter. In the stomachs of Carnivora and Rodentia the two portions are commonly found divided by a constric- tion ; and the same hour-glass contraction of the stomach is occasionally met with in the human subject. See Sir Everard Home, Phil. Trans. 1817, p. 347,]