490 DESCRIPTIONS OF SOME ANIMALS grinders by intermediate teeth, although there are two teeth in the in- termediate space in the upper jaw, and one in the lower. The incisors are similar to those of the kangaroo, and six in number in the upper jaw, opposed by two in the lower, which have an oblique surface ex- tending some distance from their edge, so as to increase the surface of contact. There are two cuspidati on each side in the upper jaw, and only one in the lower; five grinders on each side of each jaw’, the first rather pointed, the others appear nearly of the same size, and quadran- gular in their shape, with a hollow running across their base from the outside to the inner, which is of some depth; and another which crosses it, but not so deep, dividing the grinding surface into four points. On the fore foot there are five toes, the inner the shortest, resembling, in a slight degree, a thumb. The hind foot resembles a hand, or that of the monkey and opossum, the great toe having no nail, and opposing the whole sole of the foot, which is bare. The nails on the other toes, both of the fore and hind foot, resemble in a small degree those of the cat, being broad and covered; and the last bone of the toe has a projection on the under side, at the articulation. Each nail has, in some degree, a small sheath, covering its base when drawm up^. The tail is long, covered with long hair, except the under surface of that half towards the termination, of the breadth of half an inch, becoming broader near the tip or termination : this surface is covered with a strong cuticle, and is adapted for laying hold. T/ie Tapoa Tafa, or Tapha^. This animal is the size of a rat, and has very much the appearance of the martin cat, but hardly so long in the body in proportion to its gize. The head is flat forwards, and broad from side to side, especially between the eyes and ears; the nose is peaked, and projecting beyond the teeth, which makes the upper jaw appear to be considerably longer than the lower ; the eyes are pretty large ; the ears are broad, especially ^ [In the hinder foot the two toes next the thumb are inclosed in a common sheath of integument as far as the ungual phalanx: this is the commencement of that pecu- liar degradation of the second and middle toe which is carried to so great an extreme in the kangaroos and potoroos. The term Phalangista was given to the genus in ques- tion in consequence of this binding together of the phalanges of two of the toes in the hind-feet.] [This animal is the Phascogalepenicillata of Temminck, {Monogr:iphicff de Mam- malogies p. 58.), Dasyurus Tafa of Geoffroy, Didelphis penicillata of Shaw.]