325 OF THE WOLF, JACKAL, AND DOG. It is remarkable that there seems to be only one time in the year in which impregnation is natural to the wolf, which is the month of De- cember : for Mr. Gough’s wolf has always been in heat in that month; so was that of Mr. Symmons. The time of heat in his of the half-breed (which is nearly of the same age with mine) corresponded likewise with that of the mother, and of those bred from Mr. Gough’s wolf. OF THE JACKAL. This animal being so nearly allied to the dog, and only found wild like the wolf, I became desirous of ascertaining of what particular spe- cies it was; and while pursuing the subject, I was informed that Cap- tain Mears, of the Royal Bishop, East Indiaman, had brought home a bitch-jackal with young, which brought forth soon after his arrival; and that he had given the bitch-jackal and one puppy to Mr. Bailey, bird- merchant, in Piccadilly. I went to see them, and purchased the puppy, the subject of the following experiment, which we found to have dis- positions very similar to those of the half-bred wolf before-mentioned, which I had from Mr. Brookes. To have a true history of this animal, I took the liberty of writing to Mr. Mears, who politely called upon me, and, at my request, sent me the particulars in a letter, of which the following is a copy: Sir, I had the honour of yours of the 15th instant; and with regard to the female-jackal, I can assure you that she took a small spaniel dog of mine on board my ship, the Royal Bishop. I had her, when a cub, at Bombay; and a very short time before I arrived in England she got to heat, and enticed this small dog into the long-boat, where I saw them repeatedly fast together. I brought her to my house in the country, where she pupped six puppies, one of which you have seen. Mr. Flaw, at No. 90, Tottenham-court Road, has a dog-puppy, which will be at your service at any time you chuse to send for him, to make further experiments : I called on Mr. Flaw, and got his promise to let you have the dog. I have the honour to be. Sir, &c. Wm. Mears. ^ No. 107, Hatton-street, 16th Jan. 1786. “ P.S. I had the bitch on board fourteen months.” Having taken this puppy into the country, and chained it up near a mastiff-dog, they became very familiar, and seemingly fond of each other. When the bitch became first in heat I could not get a proper dog ; but about the latter end of September, she being again in the same state.