OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE 344 dered in this order of animals as the two posterior extremities united into one. Their muscles a very short time after death lose their fibrous struc- ture, become as uniform in texture as clay or dough, and even softer. This change is not from putrefaction, as they continue to be free from any offensive smell, and is most remarkable in those of the psose muscles and those of the back. Of the Construction of the Tail. The mode in which the tail is constructed is perhaps as beautiful, as to the mechanism, as any part of the animal. It is wholly composed of three layers of tendinous fibres, covered by the common cutis and cu- ticle ; two of these layers sire external, the other internal. The direc- tion of the fibres of the external layers is the same as in the tail, form- ing a stratum about one third of an inch thick ^; but varying in this respect as the tail is thicker or thinner. The middle layer is composed entirely of tendinous fibres, passing directly across, between the two ex- ternal ones above described, their length being in proportion to the thick- ness of the tail: a structure which gives amazing strength to this part. The substance of the tail is so firm and compact that the vessels re- tain their dilated state even when cut across; and this section consists of a large vessel surrounded by as many small ones as can come in con- tact with its external surface : which of these are arteries and which veins I do not know. The fins are merely covered with a strong condensed adipose mem- brane. Of the Fat. The fat of this order of animals, except the spermaceti, is what we generally term oil. It does not coagulate in our atmosphere, and is probably the most fluid of animal fats ; but the fat of every different order of animals has not a peculiar degree of solidity, some having it in the same state, as the horse and bird. What I believe approaches near- est to spermaceti is the fat of ruminating animals, called tallow. The fat is differently situated in different orders of animals, probably for particular purposes; at least in some we can assign a final inten- tion. In the animals which are the subject of the present paper it is found principally on the outside of the muscles, immediately under the skin, and is in considerable quantity. It is rarely to be met with in the interstices of the muscles, or in any of the cavities, such as the abdo- men or about the heart. ® [In the Bal. rostrata.']