OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. 457 the tongue, as in other animals covered anteriorly by a horny scale, which terminates the head, and which may be called the upper lip or the roof of the mouth. It passes down through the neck and thorax, and when got into the abdomen it immediately dilates into a fine transparent bag, which is the immediate receiver of whatever is swallowed. From this the food (whatever it be) is either carried further on into the stomach to be digested, or is regurgitated for other purposes. To ascertain this in some degree in living bees, I caught them going out early in the morning, and found this bag quite empty: some time after I caught others returning home and found the bag quite full of honey, and some of it had got into the stomach. Now I suppose that which was in the craw was for the purpose of regurgitation, and as probably they had fasted during the night, part had gone on further for digestion. What- ever time the contents of this reservoir may be retained, we never find them altered, so as to give the idea of digestion having taken place : it is pure honey. From this bag the contents can be moved either way ; either downwards to the stomach, for the immediate use of the animal itself, or back again, to be thrown out as store for future aliment. The stomach arises from the lower end and a little on the right side of this bag. It does not gradually contract into a stomach, nor is the outlet a passage directly out, but in the centre of a projection which enters some way into the reservoir, being rather an inverted pylorus, thickest at its most projecting part, with a very small opening in the centre, of a peculiar construction. This inward projecting part is easily seen through the coats of the reservoir, especially if full of honey. The stomach begins immediately on the outside of the reservoir, and the same part which projects into the reservoir is continued some way into the stomach, but appears to have no particular construction at this end, and therefore it is only fitted to prevent regurgitation into the re- servoir, as such would spoil the honey. This construction of parts is well adapted for the purpose, for the end projecting into the reservoir prevents any honey from getting into the stomach, because it acts there ^ [This observation appears to have been overlooked by entomologists, who conti- nued to believe that the opening of the pharynx was situated below the proboscis in bees, until the researches of Savigny on the oral organs of these insects and of the Lepidoptera were made pubhc. Cuvier, in his Analyse des Travaux de la Classe des Sciences Mathematiques et Physiques de VInstitut, pendant TAnnie 1814, observes, “ On avait cru voir que I’ouverture du pharynx etait situee en dessous de cette trompe ou de cette lewe, tandis que dans les masticateurs ordinairea elle Test en dessous ; mais -c’ctait une errem*; le pharynx est toujours sur la base de la trompe, et il y est meme garnis de parties interessantes a reconnaitre, et dont M. Savigny donne une descrip- tion detaillcc.” p. 25.]