OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE 374 nalis are more uniform in size than in the quadruped, there being no such inequality of parts, nor any extremities to be supplied, except the fins®. The medulla spinalis is more fibrous in its structure than in other animals; and when an attempt is made to break it longitudinally it tears with a fibrous appearance, but transversely it bredcs irregularly.’^ The dura mater lines the skull, and forms in some the three processes answerable to the divisions of the brain, as in the human subject; but in others this is bone. Where it covers the medulla spinalis it differs from all the quadrupeds I am acquainted with, inclosing the medulla closely, and the nerves immediately passing out through it at the lower part, as they do at the upper, so that the cauda equina, as it forms, is on the outside of the dura mater. The Organs of Sense* As the organs of sense are variously formed in different animals, fitted for the various modes of impression; and as the modes are either in- creased or varied, according to circumstances which make no part of the sense itself, but which are necessary for the oeconomy of the animal, we find the senses in this tribe varied in their construction, and in some a sense is even wholly wanting. The organs of sense which appear to be adapted to every mode of life are those of touch and taste; but those of smell, sight, and hearing probably require to be varied according to circumstances. Thus smell may be increased by a mode of impregnation, hearing by the vibration of different mediums, and sight by the different powers of refraction of different mediums; therefore as animals are intended by Nature to be differently circumstanced, so are the senses formed. Of the Sense of Touch* The cutis in this tribe appears in general particularly well calculated for sensation, the whole surface being covered with villi, which are so many vessels, and we must suppose nerves. Whether this structure is only necessary for acute sensation, or whether it is necessary for com- ® [The anterior roots of the spinal nerves are the largest: the posterior roots, after piercing the dura mater, are continued for a third of an inch before the ganglion is formed upon them, in the dorsal region; and the separate roots are progressively longer as they come off nearer the caudal extremity of the spinal chord. In the porpoise, from which the above description is taken, I counted forty-one pairs of spinal nerves: the cervical are closely approximated in consequence of the shortness of the neck.] ^ [The canal continued from the foiurth ventricle is persistent in the anterior part of the spinal chord, as in the horse.]