379 AND (ECONOMY OF WHALES. the skull as in the quadruped, consisting commonly of a distinct bone or bones, closely attached to the skull, but in general readily to be separated from it®; yet in some it sends off, from the posterior part, processes which unite with the skull. It varies in its shape, and is com- posed of the immediate organ and the tympanum. The immediate organ is, in point of situation to that of the t5'^mpanum, superior and internal, as in the quadruped. The tympanum is open at the anterior end, where the Eustachian tube begins. The Eustachian tube opens on the outside of the upper part of the fauces: in some higher in the nose than others ; highest I believe in the porpoise. From the cavity of the tympanum, where it is rather largest, it passes forwards and inwards, and near its termination appears very much fasciculated, as if glandular^. 'Phe Eustachian tube and tympanum communicate with several si- nuses, which passing in various directions, surround the bone of the ear. Some of these are cellular, similar to the cells of the mastoid pro- cess in the human subject, although not bony. There is a portion of this cellular structure of a particular kind, being white, ligamentous, and each part rather rounded than having flat sides One of the si- nuses passing out of the t)?'mpanum close to the membrana tympani, goes a little way in the same direction, and communicates with a num- ber of cells. The whole function of the Eustachian tube is perhaps not known; but it is evidently a duct from the cavity of the ear, or a passage for the mucus of these parts ; the external opening having a particular form would incline us to believe, that something was conveyed to the tympanum. * These communications with the Eustachian tube may be compared to a large bag on the bases of the skull of the horse and ass, which is a lateral swell of the mem- branous part of the tube, and when distended will contain nearly a quart ® [Being united to the skull by fibrous texture only, a structure which is peculiar to the Cetacea, but not universal in that order.] ^ [The Eustachian tube in the true Cetacea is characterized by its membranous structure throughout; its parietes are nowhere supported by cartilage, nor does it traverse any bone. In the porpesse its internal surface is provided with many semi- lunar valves, the free margins of which are directed towards the nasal outlet of the tube.] [In a beautiful drawing of the organ of hearing in the porpoise, recently published by the College of Surgeons, Hunter gives a view of part of the sinuses which commu- nicate with the tympanum and Eustachian tube. Sec Physiological Catalogue of the Hunterian Collection, vol. iii. pi. xxxiv. i. k. In the preparation (No. 1582) the sinuses are seen to contain numerous small worms {Strongylus minor), Kuhn, Mem; du Museum, tom. xviii. p. 363. The same have been observed by other physiologists, as Klein, Camper, Albers, and Rudolphi, thejatter of whom regards them as a small variety of the StrongyJm injlexm.l