OF THE WOLF, JACKAL, AND DOG. 3‘2*2 She died four years ago, and the following inscription was put over the place where she is buried in this garden, by Lord Pembroke’s orders : Here lies Lupa, whose grandmother was a wolf, whose father and grandfather were dogs, and whose mother was half wolf and half dog. She died on the 16th of October, 1782, aged 12 years. “ I am sorry it is not in my power to give you any better account; but if you think proper to write to Lord Pembroke, who is at Paris, I am convinced he will be very happy to give you any further information. “ I am, &c. Herbert.” BulFon, whose remarks in natural history are well known, made ex- periments to ascertain how far the wolf and dog were of the same spe- cies, but without success. He says, A she-wolf, which I kept three years, although shut up very young, and along with a greyhound of the same age, in a spacious yard, could not be brought to agree with it, nor endure it, even when she was in heat. She was the weakest, yet the most mischievous, provoking, attacking, and biting the dog, which at first only defended itself, but at last killed her.” And in another part of his work he makes the following observation ; “ The dog, the wolf, the fox, and the jackal, form a genus, of which the different species are really so nearly allied to each other, and of which the individuals re- semble each other so much, particularly by the internal structure and parts of generation, that it is difficult to conceive why they do not breed together*.” This part of natural history lay dormant, till Mr. Gough, who sells * In the Supplement to his Works he gives the following account which had been sent to him. “ A very young she-wolf, brought up at the Marquis of Spontin’s, at Namur, had a dog, of nearly the same age, kept with it as a companion. For two years they were at liberty, coming and going about the apartments, the kitchen, the stables, &c. lying under the table, and upon the feet of those who sat round it. They lived in the greatest familiarity. “ The dog was a strong greyhound. The wolf was fed on milk for six months; after that, raw meat was given her, which she preferred to that which was dressed. When she ate no one durst approach her, but at other times people might do as they pleased, provided they did not use her ill. At first she made much of all the dogs w’hich were brought to her, but afterwards she gave the preference to her old com- panion, and from that time she became very fierce if any strange dog approached her. She was lined for the first time on the 25th of March; this was frequently repeated while her heat continued, which was sixteen days; and she littered the 6th of June, at eight o’clock in the morning; the period of gestation was therefore seventy-three