PREFACE. XXI Hunter either established or suggested in different branches of physiology, I proceed next to advance a few instances of his discoveries in comparative anatomy, which, on the supposition that they were original, have contributed to add to the reputa- tion of subsequent anatomists. 1. The organ of hearing in the sepia. The fact that this cephalopod possesses the organ in question is stated at p. 294 of the present edition of the Animal fficonomy, and it is said to differ from that of fishes. The discovery is attributed by Cuvier to Scarpa. 2. The semicircular canals of the Cetacea, described by Hunter in the paper on whales, a structure which Cuvier rightly states that Camper overlooked, but incorrectly claims the dis- covery as his own. 8. In the latest sketch of the history of comparative ana- tomy, prefixed to the French translation of Carus’s Zootomie, John Hunter is introduced as the impudent self-appropriator of Camper’s discovery of the air cells in the bones of birds; and the historian of the science does not honour him with any further notice. Now the facts with reference to this subject are as follows: Camper’s account of the air cells in the bones of Birds was first published in the Dutch language in the year 1774, the same year in which Mr. Hunter’s discovery was published in the Philosophical Transactions. The French memoir of Camper was not published till the year 1776, in the seventh volume of the Memoires Etrang. de VAcademie des Sciences de Paris, Hunter gives the date of his discovery as being in 1758; Camper his, in the year 1771. The numerous observations and experiments which their re- spective memoirs detail are not such as could hastily be got up for an unworthy purpose ; but as both memoirs (which differ materially in their general scope and the mode in which the subject is treated) were published in the same year, the honour of the discovery may fairly be attributed to both their authors. I might dwell on the philosophical comparison which Hunter makes between the abdominal air-cells of the bird and those of reptiles and fishes had he not in this instance been anticipated by Harvey. Harvey, however, was not aware that the respira- tory system was extended into the muscular interstices and the