XXV PREFACE. dite branch of physiology. It is here that we find an attempt to explain congenital defects by reference to the transitory structures or metamorphoses of foetal life. It was a question in the time of Hunter how it happened that the gut in the hernia congenita came to be in contact with the testes. Hunter solved the question, by directing attention to the position of the testis in the abdomen, and to its relations to the other abdominal viscera, and to the peritoneum, a few months before the expiration of the term of foetal development. He watched the progress of the gland to the scrotum; saw it carrying along with it a peritoneal pouch like the sac of an in- testine, and thus demonstrated, that if the closure of that sac was prevented by the contemporaneous passage of a loop of in- testine, it must remain a common receptacle, both of the part wdiich had naturally, and the part which had preternaturally, escaped from the abdomen. Hunter then goes on to show how the early and transitory condition of the tunica vaginalis in the human foetus, and also the still earlier abdominal position of the testes, are permanent structures in the lower mammalia. With respect to monstrosities in general. Hunter had drawn out a scheme for their classification, and had produced them by experiment. In the “ Account of an extraordinary Pheasant” he states that every species of animal, and every part of an animal body, is subject to congenital malformation ; but he knew that such appearances were not attributable to a freak of Nature, ora matter of mere chance ; for he observes that every species has a disposition to deviate from Nature in a manner peculiar to itself. It is this principle wdiich forms the basis of the latest and most elaborate treatise on monsters*, a work which its author describes as being “ the result of his having esta- blished, by a great number of researches, that monsters are, like the beings called normal, subject to constant rules.” With respect to the cause or origin of monsters. Hunter re- ferred it to a condition of the original germ, or, as he expresses it, “ each part of each species seems to have its monstrous form originally impressed upon it.” In the introductory observa- tions to his extensive collection of malformed foetuses and parts, * Ilistoire des Anomalies de V Organization thez VHomme et les Animctux^ ou Traite de Teratologies par Isid. Geoffrey St. Hilaire: Paris, 8vo. 1832.