216 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. of seven and one of four years old, having equally done no work, shall not be equal in their continuance of it. In riding they also give weight according to age, and the aged horse always carries the greatest weight, if other parts are equal*. When an animal is at its full strength is not easily ascertained, but it cannot be while growing; it must have arrived at its full extent, and perhaps it is even necessary to have been some time in that state. The involuntary actions are stronger before this period than after; this is perhaps necessary for the animal’s growth. Besides the decrease in the size of a muscle from an atrophy, &c., and the restoration of them again to their natural size, which is disease and health, there is an increase which accompanies the whole body, till it arrives at its full size, when the whole seems to rest, except the muscles. How long the muscles continue in this full size is not easily ascer- tained, but when old age begins to come on, the muscles begin to decay; but not becoming pale and flabby, like a diseased muscle, but retaining their redness and sound appearance. A person grows thinner after a certain age, but not in proportion to the decrease of size of the muscles, for the interstices between the bun- dles of fibres, and also between the muscles themselves, are loaded with fat, and this takes place so constantly that an old man may be distin- guished from a young one from only seeing the muscles, and the fat mixed with them. Muscles in old people lose their quantity of contraction, and the joints are therefore never moved to their full extent. This is the loss of only the extreme motion, which is weak, and therefore may be supposed to arise from weakness alone; but I do not think this effect is produced in young people from weakness. An old man stands with his knees, thighs, and all his joints bent, not being able to bring himself to the upright position. The actions of the body that are both involuntary and voluntary are some of the most beautiful circumstances in the machine. I believe the muscles of respiration are the only perfect instances of it. The sphincters also have both ; but in them it would seem to be an involun- tar)’^ continuation of an action which is voluntary. Fresh air was necessary for our existence, and it was therefore ne- cessary that it should be regulated by some other principle than that of the will; for it is necessary when we sleep, and also when we toill the contrary. Therefore our will has its limits of power over the involun- * How accurate these gentlemen are I don’t know.