ON THE COLOUR OF THE PIGMENTUM OF THE EYE. 277 . ON THE COLOUR OF THE PIGxMENTUM OF THE EYE IN DIFFERENT ANIMALS. In the eyes of all animals which I have examined there is a substance approaching^ to the nature and appearance of a membrane, called the pigmentiim, which lines the choroid coat, and is somewhat similar to the rete mucosum which lies under the cuticle of the human body ; and there is also some of the same kind of substance diffused through the cellular membrane wh'ch unites the choroid with the sclerotic coat. My intention at present is only to communicate the observations I have made on tins subject and its use, confining myself to the consideration of that kind of it which lines the tunica choroides of the class Mammalia, and of birds: in doing which I shall also take occasion to speak of the difference of colour occurring in animals of the same species. Although an aecurate examination of the appearances of a similar substance in the eyes of some fishes might illustrate the subject, we cannot avail ourselves of that, as from not being sufficiently acquainted with the effects of light on the eyes of that class of animals. The propagation or continuance of animals in their distinct classes is an established law of Nature, and in a general way is preserved with a tolerable degree of uniformity; but In the individuals of each species varieties are every day produced in colour, shape, size, and disposition. Some of these changes are permanent with respect to the propagation of the animal, becoming so far a part of its nature as to be continued in the offspring. Animals living in a free and natural state are subject to few devia- tions from their specific character; but Nature is less uniform in its operations when influenced by culture*. Considerable varieties are produced under such circumstances, of which the most frequent are changes in the colour. These changes are always, I believe, from the dark to the lighter tints, and the alteration very gradual in certain spe- cies, requiring in the canary-bird several generations ; while in the crow, * From the variations produced by culture it would appear that the animal is so susceptible of impression as to vary Nature’s actions; and this is even carried into propagation. Whether this takes place at the very first union of the principles of the two parents, so as to derive its existence from both ; or whether it takes its formation from the mother, after the first formation of the embryo, are perhaps not easily deter- mined. ■