416 AN ACCOUNT OF THE GYMNOTUS ELECTRICU9; vides it from the small organ, and which gives a kind of fixed point for the lateral muscles of the fin*. Its most internal surface is a plane adapted to the partition which divides the two organs from one anotherf. The edge next to the muscles of the back is very thin, but the organ becomes thicker and thicker towards its middle, where it approaches the centre of the animal. It becomes thinner again towards the lower surface or belly, but that edge is not so thin as the other. Its union with the parts to which it is attached is in general by a loose but pretty strong cellular membrane, except at the partition, to which it is joined so close as to be almost inseparable. The small organ lies along the lower edge of the animal, nearly to the same extent as the other J. Its situation is marked externally by the muscles which move the fin under which it lies. Its anterior end begins nearly in the same line with the large organ, and just where the fin begins. It terminates almost insensibly near the end of the tail, where the large organ also terminates. It is of a triangular figure, adapting itself to the part in which it lies ยง. Its anterior end is the nar- rowest part; towards the tail it becomes broader; in the middle of the organ it is thickest, and from thence becomes gradually thinner to the tail, where it is very thin. The two small organs are separated from one another by the middle muscles, and by the bones upon which the bones of the fins are articulated [|. The large and the small organ on each side are separated from one another by a fatty membrane, the inner edge of which is attached to the middle partition, and its outer edge is lost on the skin of the animal^. To expose the large organ to view nothing more is necessary than to remove the skin, which adheres to it by a loose cellular membrane; but to expose the small organ it is ne- cessary to remove the long row of small muscles which move the fin. Of the Structure of these Organs. The structure is extremely simple and regular, consisting of two parts, viz. flat partitions of septa, and cross divisions between them. The outer edges of these septa appear externally in parallel lines nearly in the direction of the longitudinal axis of the body**. These septa are thin membranes, placed nearly parallel to one another. Their lengths are nearly in the direction of the long axis, and their breadth is nearly * PI. LVII. fig. 4. p p. t PI. LVII. fig. 4. o o. X PI- LVI. l i. l. ยง PI. LVII. fig. 5. 11. 11 PI. LVII. fig. 4. E. ^ PI. LVII. fig. 4. r. ** PI. LVI. K K K.