335 AND CECONOMY OF WHALES. whale, which is seventy or eighty feet long* **, to the porpoise, that is five or six: however, if they differ as much among themselves as the salmon does from the sprat, there is not that comparative difference in size that would at first appear. The whalebone whale is, I believe, the largest; the spermaceti whale the next in size (the one which I ex- amined, although not full grown, was about sixty feet long) ; the grampus, which is an extensive genus, is probably from twenty to fifty feet long; under this denomination there is a number of species. From my want of knowledge of the different genera of this tribe of animals, an incorrectness in the application of the anatomical account to the proper genus may be the consequence ; for when they are of a certain size they are brought to us as porpoises; when larger they are called grampus or fin-fish. A tolerably correct anatomical description of each species, with an accurate drawing of the external form, would lead us to a knowledge of the different genera, and the species in each ; and, in order to forward so useful a work, I propose, at some future pe- riod, to lay before the Society descriptions and drawings of those which have come under my own observation. From some circumstances in their digestive organs we should be led to suppose that they were nearly allied to each other, and that there was not the same variety in this respect as in land animals. In the description of this order of animals I shall always keep in view their analogy to land animals, and to such as occasionally inhabit the water, as white bears, seals, manatees'*’, &c., with the differences that occur. This mode of referring them to other animals better known will assist the mind in understanding the present subject. It is not, however, intended in this paper to give a particular account of the struc- ture of all the animals of this order which I have had an opportunity of examining ; I propose at present chiefly to confine myself to general * [This, as an average size, can only be attributed to the largest of the Balcenopterce or fin-backed whales. The usual length of the largest cachalots (Physeter macroce- phalus, Shaw,) taken in the South Seas is about sixty feet; but this size refers only to the males, for there is a remarkable disproportion in the size of the two sexes in this species of Cetacean, the full-grown female of which rarely exceeds thirty-five feet. The difference is principally in the length of the jaws, which are twice as long in the male as in the female, reminding one of the sexual characters afforded by the man- , dibles in the Lucani or stag-beetles.] ** [The aquatic mammaha which Hunter includes under this name are associated by I Cuvier, in consequence of the absence of hinder extremities with the true Cetacea. 1 They include the manatee of South America {Manatus), the dugong of the Indian I Ocean and Red Sea {Halicore), and the manatee of the Arctic Seas {Rytina). They I are all herbivorous, and differ in many anatomical particulars from the true cetacea, which are the subjects of Hunter’s observations; connecting these mammalia with the I quadrupeds of the Pachydermatous order.]