40*2 OF THE ELECTRIC PROPERTY OF THE TORPEDO. hand in the third; and so on successively, till the five persons com- municated with one another by the water in the basins. In the last basin one end of the second wire was immersed ; and with the other end Mr. Walsh touched the back of the torpedo, when the five per- sons felt a commotion which differed in nothing from that of the Ley- den experiment, except in the degree of force. Mr. Walsh, who was not in the circle of conduction, received no shock. This experiment was repeated several times, even with eight persons, and always with the same success. The action of the torpedo is communicated by the same mediums as that of the electric fluid. The bodies which inter- cept the action of the one, intercept likewise the action of the other. The effects produced by the torpedo resemble in every respect a weak electricity.’* This exhibition of the electric powers of the torpedo before the Academy of La Rochelle, was at a meeting held for the purpose in my apartments, on the 22nd July, 1772, and stands registered in the jour- nals of the Academy. The effect of the animal was, in these experiments, transmitted through as great an extent and variety of conductors as almost at any time we had been able to obtain it, and the experiments included nearly all the points in which its analogy with the effect of the Leyden phial had been observed. These points were stated to the gentlemen present, as were the circumstances in which the two effects appeared to vary. It was likewise represented to them, that our experiments had been almost wholly with the animal in the air; that its action in water was a capital desideratum; that indeed all as yet done was little more than opening the door to inquiry; that much remained to be ex- amined by the electrician as well as by the anatomist; that as artificial electricity had thrown light on the natural operation of the torpedo, this might in return, if well considered, throw light on artificial elec- tricity, particularly in those respects in which they now seemed to differ; that for me, I was about to take leave of the animal, as nature had denied it to the British seas; and that the prosecution of these researches rested in a particular manner with them, whose shores abounded with it. The torpedo on this occasion dispensed only the distinct, instanta- neous stroke so well known by the name of the electric shock. That protracted but lighter sensation, that torpor or numbness which he at times induces, and from which he takes his name, was not then expe- rienced from the animal; but it was imitated with artificial electricity, and shown to be producible by a quick consecution of minute shocks. This in the torpedo may perhaps be effected by the successive dis-