OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. 426 but to what age the individual* lives is not known ; w*e are certain, how- ever, that it is only the labourers and queens that continue the society, for the males die the same year they are formed. From their fixing on the branches of trees, under projecting exposed surfaces, when they swarm, we should be inclined to suppose that they were animals of a warm climate ; yet their providing liberally for the change of climate, or rather for a change of season, would, on the contrary, make us be- lieve they were adapted for changeable climates, or rather these two circumstances should make us suppose they were fitted for both, and their universality* proves it. And I do conceive that in a pretty uniform warm climate their ceconomy may be somewhat different from what it is in the changeable, as they would not be under the same necessity to lay up so much store, and probably might employ their cells in breeding, for a much longer period; however, a good climate agrees with them best, as also a good season in an indifferent climate, such as Britain. We find the common bee in Europe, Asia, Africa, and America. That they may be, or should be, in the three first is easily supposed, but how they came to America is not so readily conceived; for although a kind of manageable animal, yet they do not like such long confinement in their hives as would carry them to the West Indies, excepting in an ice- house ; for when I have endeavoured to confine them in their hives they have been so restless as to destroy themselves. The female and the working bee, I believe in every species, have stings, which renders them an animal of offence, indeed, but rather of defence ; for although they make an attack, I believe it is by way of defence, excepting when they attack one another, which is seldom or never with their stings. As this belongs more to the labourers, it shall be considered when I treat of them in particular. Of the whole bee tribe, the common bee is the easiest irritated ; for as they have property, they are jealous of it, and seem to defend it; but when not near it they are quiet, and must be hurt before they will sting ; with all this dispo- sition for defence, which is only to secure their property or themselves, when more closely attacked, yet they have no covetousness, nor a dis- position to obstruct others. Thus two bees or more will be sucking at the same flow'er, without the first possessor claiming it as his right; a hundred may be about the same drop of honey, if it is beyond the boun- daries of their own right; but wdiat they have collected they defend. It is easily known when they mean to sting; they fly about the object of their anger very quickly, and by the quickness of their motion evade being struck or attacked; which is discovered by the sound of their wings, as if going to give a stroke as they fly, a very different noise from that of the wings when coming home of a fine evening loaded with farina