317 ON THE GROWTH OF BONES. To ascertain that the cylindrical bones are not elongated, by new matter being interposed in the interstices of the old, he made the fol- lowing experiment; he bored two holes in the tibia of a pig, one near the upper end, and the other near the lower; the space between the holes was exactly two inches: a small leaden shot was inserted into each hole. When the bone had been increased in its length by the growth of the animal, the pig was killed, and the space within the two shot was also exactly two inches. This experiment was repeated several times on different pigs, but the space between the two shot was never increased during the growth of the bone^. Besides these experiments on the growth of bones, he made others, to determine the process of their exfoliation. He cauterized portions forth. This mode of growth, with absorption at the symphysis of the jaw, continues throughout life in the elephant, in which new grinders are thus brought forwards into use in uninterrupted succession. The preparations of bones coloured with madder in the Hunterian Collection are as follows. Nos. 190 to 201 inclusive, Physiological Series; Nos. 742 to 751, Osteolo- gical Series.] * [Meckel has rightly observed (supposing the above to he a correct statement of Hunter’s experiments on this point,) that they are invalidated by the careful and nu- merous experiments of Duhamel, which prove that the middle portion of the long hones does increase in length, though in a less degree than the extremities. It is not easy to understand how the unqualified assertion came to be published, since the preparation and record of an experiment confirmatory of those made by Du- hamel are still preserved in the Hunterian Museum. The preparation (No. 188, Physiological Series,) is the left tarso-metatarsal bone of a common fowl, exhibiting two perforations at equal distances, two thirds of an inch fiom the extremities of the bone. The original record of the experiment is preserved w'ith the specimen. “ The two extreme lines are the present length of the bone from the head to the joint of the inner toe. The two inner Unes are the length when cauterized. The outer dots are the present distance of the holes cauterized. The two inner dots are the distance of these holes when cauterized; so that the bone between the two holes has grown about two eighths of an inch, while the other parts have grown half an inch.”— Physiological Catalogue, vol. i. p. 40. In another experiment, in which shots were inserted into the holes, the result was spoiled by the shots passing into the medullary cavity of the bone, while the perfora- tions became obliterated, as in DuhamePs experiment with the ring of wire, by the deposition of new bone from the periosteum. The shots being liberated from the os- seous texture, could no longer serve to indicate its growth. The subject of the expe- riment, the tarso-metatarsal bone of a fowl, is No. 189, Physiological Series. It is re- markable that there is not a single preparation of the long hone of a pig, exhibiting the experiments with shot alluded to in the text. The notes of the experiments on the bones of fowls above mentioned are in the hand-writing of Mr. Wm. Bell, Mr. Hun- ter’s talented artist and assistant, and must therefore have been written in or before the year 1789, when Mr. Bell left England for the East Indies.]