398 OF THE ELECTRIC PROPERTY OF THE TORPEDO. OF THE ELECTRIC PROPERTY OF THE TORPEDO. In a Letter from John Walsh, Esq., F.R.S., to Benjamin Franklin, Esq., LL.D., F.R.S., Ac. R. Par. Soc. Ext., <^ c.“ Chesterfield Street, July 1, 1773. Dear Sir, I AM concerned that other engagements have prevented me from giving to the Royal Society, before their recess, a complete account of my experiments on the electricity of the torpedo; a subject not only curious in itself, but opening a large field for interesting inquiry, both to the electrician in his walk of physics, and to all who consider, par- ticularly or generally, the animal oeconomy. To supply the deficiency in the best manner I am now able, I will request the.favour of you to lay before the Society my letter from La Rochelle, of the 12th July, 1772, and such part of the letter I after- wards wrote from Paris as relates to this subject. Loose and imper- fect as these informations are, for they were never intended for the public eye, they are still the most authentic, and so far the most satis- factory I can at present offer, since the notes I made of the experiments themselves remain nearly, I am sorry to say it, in that crude and bulky state in which you had the trouble to read them. Letter from Mr.Walsh to Dr. Franklin, dated La Rochelle, July 12,1772. It is with particular satisfaction I make to you my first communi- cation, that the effect of the torpedo appears to be absolutely electrical; by forming its circuit through the same conductors with electricity, for instance, metals and water; and by being intercepted by the same non-conductors, for instance, glass and sealing-wax. I will not at present trouble you with the detail of our experiments, especially as we are daily advancing in them, but only observe that we have discovered the back and breast of the animal to be in different states of electricity; I mean in particular the upper and lower surfaces of those two assemblages of pliant cylinders of which you have seen engravings in Lorenzini*. By the knowledge of this circum- * Observazioni intorno alle Torpedini di Stef. Lorenzini, 1678. Redi appears to be the first who remarked these singular parts of the torpedo in 1666. Franc. Redi, Exper. Nat. ® [This letter is prefixed to Mr. Hunter’s description of the Electric Organs, in tlie Philosophical Transactions, vol. Ixiii.]