447 OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. of forming a common maggot into a queen. If authors had given us this as an opinion only, we might have passed it over as improbable; but they have endeavoured to prove it by experiments, which require to be examined. And for that purpose I shall give what they say on that head, with my remarks upon it. Abstracts from Mr. Schirach. The following experiments were made to ascertain the origin of the queen bee :—“ In twelve wooden boxes were placed twelve pieces of comb, four inches square, each containing both eggs and maggots, so suspended that the bees could come round every part of the comb: in each box was shut up a handful of working bees. Knowing that when bees are forming a queen they should be confined* * * §, the boxes M^ere kept shut for two days. When examined at the end of that period (six boxes only w'ere opened), in all of them royal cells were begun, one, two, or three in each; all of these containing a maggot four days old. In four days, the other six boxes were opened, and royal cells found in each, containing maggots five days old, surrounded by a large provision of jelly; and one of these maggots examined in the microscope, in every respect resembled a working bee. “ This experiment was repeated, and the maggots selected to be made queens were three days old; and in seventeen days there were found in the twelve boxes fifteen lively, handsome queensf. These experiments were made in May, and the bees were allowed to work great part of the summer; the bees were examined one by one, but no drone could be discovered, and yet the queens were impregnated, and laid their eggst. “ The above experiment was repeated with pieces of comb containing eggs only, in six boxes, but no preparations were made towards pro- ducing a queen§. * How he came to know this I cannot conceive, for nothing a priori could give such information. t Now this account is not only improbable, but it does not tally with itself. First, it is not probable that a handful of bees should or would set about making tw^o, three, or four queens, when we do not find that number in a large hive ; and secondly, it seems inconsistent that only fifteen should he formed out of twelve parcels, when some of the former parcels had four young queens. X Here is a wonder of another kind: queens laying eggs, which (we must suppose Mr. Schirach meant we should believe) they hatehed, without the infiuence of the male, § Why eggs, which we must conceive hatched, and produced maggots, did not form queens, one cannot imagine.