492 DESCRIPTIONS OF SOME ANIMALS There are four grinders on each side, the middle two the largest, the last the least; their base is a triangle, of the scalenus kind, or having one angle obtuse and two acute. Their base is composed of two sur- faces, an inner and an outer, divided by processes or points: it is the inner that the grinders of the lower jaw oppose, when the mouth is re- gularly shut. The lower jaw has three fore teeth, or incisors, on each side, the first considerably the largest, projecting obliquely forwards; the other two of the same kind, but smaller; the last the smallest. The holder (canine) in this jaw is not so large as in the upper jaw, and close to the incisors. There are three cuspidati ‘ (false molares) the middle one the largest, the last the least; these are cones standing on their base, but not on the middle, rather on the anterior side. There are four grinders, the two middle the largest, and rather qua- drangular, each of which has a high point or cone on the outer edge, with a smaller, and three more diminutive on the inner edge. It is impossible to say critically what the various forms of these teeth are adapted for, from the general principles of teeth. In the front we have what may divide and tear off; behind those there are holders or destroyers; behind the latter, such as will assist in mashing, as the grinders of the lion, and other carnivorous animals ; and last of all, grinders, to divide parts into smaller portions, as in the graminivorous tribe: the articulation of the jaw, in some degree, admits of all those motions. [This is the second and most decisive distinguishing generic character between Phascogale and Dasyurus, the latter having only two false molars on each side of each jaw, instead of three. Had Fischer, Lesson, and other zoologists compared the de- scription of the teeth in the text with that given hy Temminck in his Monographies de Mammalogies as characterizing his genus Phascogale, they could not have hesitated to refer the Tapoa tafa of Hunter to that genus, and the catalogues of mammalia need not have contained the imaginary species Dasyurus Tafa, which M. Temminck observes “ n’a point ete vue depuis par aucun naturaliste,” and wdiich species Lesson suspects to be founded on the immature state of the spotted Dasjmre {Dasyurus viverrinus). But neither observation nor analogy favour the idea of spots being acquired by age; on the contrary, the examples of the lion and the puma, which are spotted only when young, show that they are more likely to he lost. In the Hunterian collection the posterior half of the body of the individual described by Hunter is preserved, to show the marsupium and teats; these are eight in number, and arranged in a circle. The tail perfectly corresponds with the specimens of Phas- cogale penicillata, and with M. Temminck’s description, being “ couverte de poils assez courts a la base, tres-long, raides, et en pinceau vers la pointe” {loc. cit., p. 59,); and the long hairs are black].