THE USE OF THE OBLIQUE MUSCLES. 276 of the object over tlie retina of the eye, either from the motion of the object itself, or of the head in some of the motions of that part, the straight muscles are provided as has been explained; but the eifects which would arise from some other motion of the head, as from shoulder to shoulder, cannot be corrected by the action of the straight muscles, therefore the oblique muscles are provided. Thus when we look at an object, and at the same time move our head to either shoulder, it is moving in the arch of a circle whose centre is the neck ; and of course the eyes Avould have the same quantity of motion on this axis if the oblique muscles did not fix them upon the object. When the head is moved towards the right shoidder the superior oblique muscle of the I right side acts and keeps the right eye fixed on the object; and a simi- I lar effect is produced upon the left eye by the action of its inferior oblique muscle ; when the head moves in a contrary" direction the other oblique muscles produce the same effect. This motion of the head may, however, be to a greater extent than can be counteracted by the action of the oblique muscles. Thus, for instance, while the head is on the left shoulder the eyes may be fixed upon an object, and continue looking at it while the head is moved to the right shoulder, which sweep of the head produces a greater effect upon the eyeballs than can be counter- acted by the action of the oblique muscles ; and in this case we find that the oblique muscles let go the eye, so that it immediate!}^ returns into its natural situation in the orbit. Whether this is performed by the natural elasticity of the parts, or whether the antagonist oblique muscles take up the action and reinstate the eye, I do not know. If the head still continues its motion in the same direction, then the same oblique muscles begin to act anew, and go on acting, so as to keep the eyes fixed on the object. As this motion of the head seldom takes place un- combined with its other motions, some of the straight and oblique muscles will be employed at the same time, according as the motions are more or less compounded. of the retina, but even explain the effects which would be produced by it on the mind of the observer. Keill makes the following observation : “ Since optics teach us that every body which is visible has by means of the rays which proceed from that object its image painted on the bottom of the eye or retina, it follows that those objects will seem to be moved whose images are moved on the retina, that is, which pass over successively the different parts of the retina whilst the eye is supposed to be at rest; but those objects will be looked upon as being at rest whose images always occupy the same part of the retina, that is, when the motion of those images are not perceived in the bottom of the eye.”—Keill’s Introduction to Natural Philosophy, p. 79.