ON THE HEAT OF VEGETABLES. 159 : similar to animals of so many different ages. Youth, in all cases, is a state of imperfection; for we find that few animals that come into the world in winter live, unless they are particularly taken care of; and we may observe the same of vegetables. I found that a young plant was more easily killed than an old one; as also the youngest part of the same plant. ® As I had formerly, in making my experiments upon animals relative to heat and cold, made similar ones on vegetables, and had generally found a great similarity between them in these respects, I was led to pursue the subject on the same plan; but I was still further induced to continue my experiments upon vegetables, as I imagined I saw a mate- rial difference between them in their power of supporting cold. From observations and the foregoing experiments, it plainly appears j that the living principle will not allow the heat of such animals to sink much lower than the freezing point, although the surrounding atmo- I sphere be much colder, and that in such a state they cannot support i life long; but it may be observed, that most vegetables of every country can sustain the cold of their climate. In very cold regions, as in the : more northern parts of America, where the thermometer is often 50® 1 below 0, where people’s feet are known to freeze and their noses to drop off if great care be not taken, yet the spruce-fir, birch, juniper, &c, i are not affected. j Yet, that vegetables can be affected by cold, daily experience evinces; I for the vegetables of every country are affected if the season be more than ordinarily cold for that country, and some more than others; for in the cold climates above mentioned the life of the vegetable is often i obliged to give way to the cold of the country : a tree shall die by the cold; then freeze and split into a great number of pieces ; and in so doing produce considerable noise, giving loud cracks, which are often heard at a great distance. In this country the same thing sometimes happens to exotics from warmer climates. A remarkable instance of this kind happened this i winter in His Majesty’s garden at Kew. The Erica arborea, or tree- I heath, a native of Spain and Portugal, which had kept its health ex- I tremely well against a garden wall for four or five years, though covered I with a mat, was killed by the cold, and then, being frozen, split into i innumerable pieces*. But the question is. Is every tree dead that is * This must be owing to the sap in the tree freezing, and occupying a larger space ! when frozen than in a fluid state, similar to water; and that there is a sufficient quan- i tity of sap in a tree newly killed, is proved by the vast quantity that flows out on * [See Phil. Trans,, Ixviii., 1778, p, 38.]