ON ANIMALS PRODUCING HEAT. 140 making the comparative experiments that follow; being clearly of opinion that all such trials should be as similar as possible, except in those points where the difference (if there is any) makes the essential part of the experiment. Experiment IV. The heat of the penis of a living person, an inch and a half within the urethra, being found exactly 92® ; and the dead one being heated to the same degree, I had both immersed in the same vessel, with the water at 50®, when, by introducing the thermometers several different times, I was able to note the comparative quickness with which they cooled from 92®, and observed that the dead cooled sooner by two or three minutes; the living sunk the quicksilver to 58®, and the dead to 50®; the thermometer, although continued there some time longer, fell no lower. I repeated this experiment several times, with the same result; although at one time there was a small differ- ence in the degrees of heat of the penis and also of the water; but the difference in the result was nearly proportional in all the three different trials, therefore the same conclusions may be drawn from them. In these last experiments very little difference was observed between the cooling of a dead and of a living part; a circumstance which we cannot suppose to take place uniformly through the whole body, as in that case living animals would always be of the same degree of heat with the atmosphere in which they live. The subject of these experiments not choosing to have the part cooled lower than 53® or 54®, prevented my observing if the powers of generating heat were exerted to a greater degree when the heat was brought so low as to threaten destruction; but by some experiments on mice, which will be related hereafter, it will appear that the animal powers are roused to exert themselves in this respect when necessary. ' Having found, from the above experiments, that parts of an animal were capable of being cooled below the common or natural heat, I pro- ceeded to make others, with a view to ascertain if the same parts were capable of being made much hotter than the standard heat of animals. The experiments were made in the same manner as the former, only the water was now hotter than the natural heat of the animal. Experiment V. The natural heat of the parts being 92®, they were immersed for two minutes in water heated to 113®, and, the thermo- meter being introduced as before, the quicksilver rose to 100® and a half. This experiment I also repeated several times, but could not raise the heat of the penis beyond IOO4-®: this was probably owing to the person not being able at the time to bear the application of water warmer than 113®. By way of comparison, I made Experiment VI. The living and dead parts being both immersed in