ON ANTMALS PRODUCING HEAT, 152 As all the experiments I ever made upon the freezing of animals (with a view to see if it were possible to restore the actions of life when thawed) were tried upon whole ones; as I never saw life return by thawing*, and wished to see how far parts were similar to the whole in this respect, it being asserted, and with some authority, that parts of a man may be frozen, and afterwards recover,—I made, for this pur- pose the following experiments upon an animal of the same class as ourselves. In January 1777, I mixed salt and ice till the cold was about 0; in the side of the vessel was a hole, through which I introduced the ear of a rabbit; and, to carry off the heat as fast as possible, it was held between two flat pieces of iron that went further into the mixtijre. That part of the ear projecting into the vessel became stiff, and when cut did not bleed; the part divided by the scissors flying from between the blades like a hard chip. The ear having remained in the mixture nearly an hour, soon thawed when taken out, began to bleed, and became so very flaccid, as to double upon itself, from losing its natural elasticity. When out of the mixture nearly an hour, it became warm; and this warmth increasing to a con- siderable degree, it also began to thicken, in consequence of inflamma- an absolute barrier to all heat that is at or above that degree; hence the heat of the earth, or whatever substance they cover, is retained; but they are conductors of heat below 32®. Perhaps that power decreases in proportion as the heat decreases under that point. In the winter 1776, a frost coming on, the surface of the ground was frozen; but a considerable fall of snow fell, and continued several weeks: the heat of the atmosphere during the time was often at 15® ; but so little did the frost affect the ground under- neath that the surface of the ground thawed, and the earth retained the heat of 34®, in which beans and pease will grow. The same thing took place in a pond where the water was frozen on the surface to a considerable thickness: a large quantity of snow having fallen, and covered the ice, the heat of the water was preserved; the ice thawed, and the snow', at its under surface, was found mixed with the water. The heat of the water under the snow was at 35®, in which fishes lived very well. It would be an attempt worthy the attention of the philosopher to investigate the cause of the heat of the earth, upon what principle it is preserved, &c. * Vide Phil. Trans, for the year 1775, vol. Ixv. part ii. p. 446®. * [That animals, lower in the scale than any which Hunter experimented on with this view, may, after having been frozen, recover life by thawing, is rendered at least highly probable from the following statement by Rudolphi. In his description of the Filaria capsularia he observes, “ Vermis vitae satis tenax est, ut per octiduum in frigida conservaverini, et Filarias in llarengis congelatis rigidas et glacie tectas frigida affusa reviviscere vidcrim.” {Hist. Entoz., vol. ii. p. 62.)