CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 271 We find, however, in animals which do not catch prey, and where the male has a strong tendency to fight wdth the males of its own spe- cies, while the female has this disposition very little, if at all, that there is a very considerable difference in the strength of the same parts in the male and female while alive, and a similar difference in the firmness of their muscles after death. There is a considerable difference between the muscles of a bull and cow, and also between those of a cock and hen. Besides the general strength of the muscles of those males who fight, as they have parts which are intended for this purpose, we find that the muscles of those parts far exceed all their other muscles in firmness ; as the muscles in the neck of the bull, and the legs of the cock, far exceed in firmness all the other muscles in the body, and exceed, therefore, in a much greater degree the muscles of the female We may also observe, that all those muscles in the male immediately employed in fighting, although not intended for this action alone, having other actions which are common to the female, besides being firmer than those of the female, are very considerably increased in size; thus the muscles of the neck of the bull, and of the stone horse, those of the legs of the cock, &c., are much thicker and larger than in the female. The second cause of firmness ifi a muscle, and which contributes to its strength, is action, or what is commonly called exercise, and w'hich has in general been considered as the principal cause of strength, size, and firmness. This may be called accidental, as it is not confined to any order of animals, or any one set of muscles; it may, however, be observed, that the muscles employed in progressive motion and the purposes above mentioned, are more subject to this accidental cause of firmness than any other in the body, both from the natural actions of the body, and also, being naturally firm and strong, from more readily being employed in violent actions. Thus we find the muscles employed in progressive motion are much firmer than any other muscles in the same animal, both from nature and action, except in those in the fighting males (who do not catch their food by violence,) which are employed for that purpose, as in the neck of the bull. The heart of all animals partakes strongly of the two causes of firm- ness, and is perhaps the firmest muscle in the body. This firmness in the heart is very early in life, for in the small embryo the heart is a pretty firm manageable part, while every other muscular part of the animal is as tender as jelly. Constant action not only gives firmness to muscles, but increase of size.