204 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. less in quantity *, in vegetables than in animals; for a small vine was capable of sustaining and even of raising a column of sap 43 feethighf, while a horse’s heart was only capable of supporting a column of blood 8 feet 9 inches high : both of which columns must have been supported by the action of the internal parts, for we must suppose the heart equal, or nearly so, to the strength or action of the other parts of the vascular system; and when we consider that the sap of the tallest tree must be supported and even raised from the root to the most distant branches, it must appear that the power of such vegetables far exceeds the power of any animal, and indeed it is such as the texture of a vegetable only can support. The power of supporting a leaf erect for a whole day is as great an effort of action as that of the elevator palpebrarum muscle of the eye of an animal. If we consider the differences in the (economy and the mode of life of vegetables and animals, we shall find the increased quantity of motion of the three kinds above mentioned, and the increased power of the third kind in animals are only adapting them to those differences. Locomotion, for the purposes of procuring nourishment, concourse of different individuals for the propagation of the species, and destruction of each other, are the chief differences in animals. This power, how- ever, is not given to all animals, and those which are deprived of it have their motion confined to the procuring food and the propagation of their species^. Many of these, although with great impropriety, have been considered as vegetables. To see if the actions of plants were affected by a continuation of sti- mulus similar to those of animals, I made the following experiments. , As I took for granted that the analogy could go no further than as it related to the actions produced by external stimuli, my experiments were only on such plants as exhibited actions of this kind. As those parts of plants which are capable of the second and third kinds of motion are in general small, as leaves, tendrils, flowers, &c., it is difficult to discover the mechanism upon which the motion depends; the sensitive plant is probably the best of this kind that we are as yet acquainted with. As the motion of the petioli is confined principally to one part, and that differing from the others in external appearance, which difference * I make a material difference between the powder and the quantity of action. Some motions may be very small, yet act with great force; while others are of considerable extent, although very weak. f Vide Hale’s Veg. Statics, vol. i. p. 112, Exp. 36. [The two sexes are also necessarily united in the same individual, as in all attached and pedicellate animals, from the Coralline to the Barnacle, and in many others of slow motions. See note, p. 35.]