CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 195 CROONIAN LECTURE ON MUSCULAR MOTION, No. T. For the year 1776. [Read before the Royal Society, by Mr. John Hunter, F.R.S.*] A. SELF-MOVING power is such a phenomenon as must call up the attention of the thinking mind (while ignorant of the cause); and when that very mind is connected with this power it becomes still more in- terested. This power of motion was first discovered to be inherent in parts of an animal body of a certain construction, called muscles^. This con- struction appeared to be a composition of fibres, which were called mus- cular ; and motion was supposed to be produced by these contracting in length, and all the varieties of motion in an animal the most compli- cated, to be the result of the manner in which these fibres were dis- posed. ^ It is no wonder, then, that the mode in which a muscular fibre pro- duces motion has been esteemed an inquiry not unworthy the attention of the greatest philosophers, and has almost universally been one of the principal researches of the physiologist; especially when we consider that the substance, called muscular, alone constitutes the largest part of most animals ; and indeed many are wholly composed of it. The inquiries into the nature of self-motion have been principally ^ [In Home’s Account of the Life of John Hunter, prefixed to the treatise ‘ On the Blood, Inflammation, and Gun-shot Wounds,’ 1794, p. xxviii. is the following passage: “ Besides the papers which he presented to that learned body (the Royal Society), he (Mr. Hunter) read six Croonian Lectures upon the subject of muscular action, for the years 1776, 1777, 1779, 1780, 1781, 1782. In these Lectures he collected all his observations upon Muscles respecting their powers and effects, and the stimuli by which they are affected; and to these he added comparative observations upon the moving powers of Plants. These Lectures were not published in the Philosophical Trans- actions ; for they were withdrawn as soon as read, not being considered by the author as complete dissertations, but rather as materials for some future publication.”] ^ [Both Aristotle and Hippocrates were ignorant of the function of the muscular fibre: the important discovery that the animal motions were performed by the muscles is attributed to Lycus of Macedon, who wrote a voluminous work on Myology. It is certain that the use of the muscles was known to Herophilus, since he is quoted by Galen as having spoken of the happy disposition of the muscles for the movement f the limbs. To Herophilus belongs the honour of having first discovered in the nerves the organs of sensation and of voluntary motion.]