OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE 38G Tlie sclerotic coat gives shape to the eye, both externally and inter- nally, as in other animals; but the external shape and that of the in- ternal cavity are very dissimilar, arising from the great difference in the thickness of this coat in different parts. The external figure is round, except that it is a little flattened forwards ; hut that of the cavity is far otherwise, being made up of sections of various circles, being a little lengthened from the inner side to the outer, a transverse section making a short ellipsis. In the piked whale the long axis is two inches and three quarters, the short axis two inches and one-eighth* **^. The posterior part of the cavity is a tolerably regular curve, answer- ing to the difference in the two axises; but forwards, near the cornea, the sclerotic coat turns quickly in, to meet the cornea, which makes this part of the cavity exti'emely flat, and renders the distance between the anterior part of the sclerotic coat and the bottom of the eye not above an inch and a quarter. In the piked whale the sclerotic coat, at its posterior part, is very thick: near the extreme of the short axis it was half an inch, and at the long axis one-eighth of an inch thick. In the bottle-nose whale {Hyperoo- don) the extreme of the short axis was halt' an inch thick, and the ex- tremes of the long axis about a quarter of an inch, or half the other. The sclerotic coat becomes thinner as it approaches to its union with the cornea, where it is thin and soft. It is extremely firm in its texture where thick, and from a transverse section would seem to be composed of tendinous fibres, intermixed with something like cartilage : in this section four passages for vessels remain open. This firmness of texture precludes all effect of the straight muscles on the globe of the eye, by altering its shape, and adapting its focus to different distances of ob- jects, as has been supposed to be the case in the human eye. The cornea makes rather a longer ellipsis than the ball of the eye ; the sides of which are not equally curved, the upper being most consi- derably so. It is a segment of a circle somewhat smaller than that of the eyeball, is soft and very flaccid'*. The tunica choroides resembles that of the quadruped; and its inner surface is of a silver hue, without any nigrum pigmentum*^. * [See a view of the section of the eye of a whale in Soemering’s work, entitled, “ De Oculorum sectione horizontali, tab. ii.] [In the preparation No. 1682, Physiological Series, Hunterian Museum, Hunter has displayed the laminated structure of the cornea of the whale ; this was known to Lecuenhoek, who succeeded in separating it into twenty-two layers- (See Epist. Phys. 1719, p. 42,) which are united by a fine cellular tissue.] ** [The choroid in the cetacea is easily separable into two vascular laminae, of which the outermost is of a blackish colour, and is composed of larger vessels, connected by cellular membrane, which gives it a tomentosc appearance; the innermost (membrana