282 ON THE COLOUR OF THE PIGMENTUM OF THE EYE. to say, but it is probable, as the animal is to see in the water as well as in the air, that it may be formed circular, the better to correspond with the form of the eyelids, which open equally all round, which seems to accord with what is observable in fishes, they being without eyelids. The colour of the pigmentum, whether white or green, or both, has always a bright surface, apj^earing like polished metal, which appearance animal substance is very capable of taking on, as we see in hair, feathers, silk, &c. After having taken notice of the various colours of this pigmentum in different animals, both where permanent and where it appears to be a play of Nature, let us next examine what effect it has upon vision in both cases, whether these effects are similar, or if one case illustrates the other. It may be asserted as an undoubted fact, that the light which falls on the retina covering a white pigmentum has more effect than when it falls on the retina which covers a dark one; which is known by com- paring the vision of those of the same species who have the pigmentum wholly dark with those who have it perfectly white; and something may be learned by a similar comparison of animals who have it only in different species, it being reasonable, from analogy, to suppose that some such effect is produced in the eye which is possessed of both. I shall first consider the effect produced when the white or light co- lour makes only part of the pigmentum. This will lead me to observe, that all animals having the pigmentum diversified, though they are ca- pable of bearing as much light as others, and can see as perfectly when light is in an equal degree; can likewise see very distinctly when the light is much less than will serve the purposes of animals having it wholly dark. May we not, therefore, ascribe this advantage to the pigmentum being partly white} One might be almost tempted to sup- pose that such animals have a power of presenting the different parts of the eye to the light, according to the quantity of light required; or of moving the crystalline humour higher or lower: but we are at present unacquainted with any power in the eye by which these actions can be performed. We may observe, that when a cat or dog looks at us in the twilight the whole pupil is enlarged and illuminated, but in a full light there is no such appearance. It is plain there must be a reflexion of light from the bottom of the eye to produce the above effect, especially as the light reflected is always of the colour of the pigmentum in such animals, which in the cow is of a light green. I shall secondly consider those animals which have the whole pigi- mcntum of a white colour, whether it is accidental or natural, and that