OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. 112 some part of the food, though digestible, not being acted upon by the gastric juice, may arise from two causes: first, from many parts of ve- getables being too firm in texture to be digested in the same time with the other food, and being therefore carried along in a crude state, toge- ther with the chyle, into the duodenum; and secondly, from the sto- mach at the time being so much disordered as to digest imperfectly. We know that food may lie a considerable time in the stomach when it is diseased without being digested. Food has been retained in the stomach twenty-four hours, and thrown up without being in the least altered, the animal at the time not requiring nourishment: this often arises from disease, and is also the case with those which go to rest in the winter. : The powers of digestion may in some instances be estimated by the appearance of the excrement, in which, if the food appears not to be much altered, we may conclude that digestion has had little or no influ- ence on it. Thus, the excrement of a flea, that has lived on blood, is nearly, to appearance, pure blood, not having even lost its colour. Animals take food in proportion to the quantity of nourishment con- tained in it, of which the stomach appears, from instinct, to be capable of judging; and also in proportion to the powers they possess of con- verting what they eat into chyle. A caterpillar, perhaps, eats more in proportion to its size than any other animal that lives on the same kind of food; for not having the power of dissolving the vegetable, but only of extracting a juice or infusion from it, the bit of leaf comes away entire, coiled up and hardened; but by being put into water, unfolds like tea. , There are few animals that do not eat flesh in some form or other, while there are many who do not eat vegetables at all; and therefore the difficulty to make the herbivorous eat meat is not so great as to make the carnivorous eat vegetables. Where there is an instinctive principle in an animal, directing it either to the one species of food or the other, the animal will certainly die rather than break through of its own accord that natural law; but it may be made to violate every na- tural principle by artificial means. That the hawk tribe can be made to feed upon bread, I have known these thirty years ; for to a tame kite I first gave fat, which it ate very readily; then tallow and butter; and afterwards small balls of bread rolled in fat or butter; and by decreasing the fat gradually it at last ate bread alone, and seemed to thrive as well as when fed with meat. This, however, produced a difference in the consistence of the excrements, for when it ate meat they were thin, and it had the power of throwing them to some distance; but when it ate bread they became firmer in texture, and dropped like the excrement of a common fowl. Spallanzani attempted, in vain, to make an eagle eat