AND (ECONOMY OF WHALES. 337 or fins, although formed of distinct parts, in some degree similar to the anterior extremities of some quadrupeds, being composed of similar bones placed nearly in the same manner, yet are so formed and arranged as to fit them for progressive motion in the water only. The external form of this order of animals is such as fits them for dividing the water in progressive motion, and gives them power to pro- duce that motion in the same manner as those fish which move with a considerable velocity. On account of their inhabiting the water, their external form is more uniform than in animals of the same class which live upon land; the surface of the earth on which the progressive mo- tion of the quadruped is to be performed being various and irregular, while the water is always the same. The form of the head or anterior part of this order of animals is com- monly a cone, or an inclined plane, except in the spermaceti whale, in which it terminates in a blunt surface. This form of head increases the surface of contact to the same volume of water which it removes, lessens the pressure, and is better calculated to bear the resistance of the water through w'hich the animal is to pass; probably on this account the head is larger than in quadrupeds, having more the proportion observed in fish, and swelling out laterally at the articulation of the low'er jaw. This may probably be for the better catching their prey, as they have no motion of the head on the body; and this distance between the ar- ticulations of the jaw is somewhat similar to the swallow, goat-sucker, bat, &c., which may also be accounted for from their catching their food in the same manner as fish; and this is rendered still more probable, “ since the form of the mouth varies according as they have or have not teeth. There is, however, in the whale tribe more variety in the form of the head than of any other part, as in the whalebone, bottle-nose, and spermaceti whales; though in this last it appears to owe its shape in some sort to the vast quantity of spermaceti lodged there, and not to be formed merely for the catching of its prey. From the mode of their progressive motion they have not the connection between the head and body that is called the neck, as that would have produced an inequality inconvenient to progressive motion. The body behind the fins or shoulders diminishes gradually to the spreading of the tail; but the part beyond the opening of the anus is to be considered as tail, although to appearance it is a continuation of the body. The body itself is flattened laterally, and I believe the back is ' much sharper than the belly. 'fhe projecting part, or tail, contains the powder that produces pro- I gressive motion and moves the broad termination, the motion of which is similar to that of an oar in sculling a boat j it supersedes the neces- VOL. IV. z