Ii8 OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. There is a ease of a mixed nature, which can neither be reckoned a process of the living body nor of the dead: it participates of both, in as much as its cause arises from life, and the effect cannot take place till after death. To render this more intelligible, it will be necessary to state some general ideas concerning this cause and effect. An animal substance, when joined with the living principle, cannot undergo any change in its properties but as an animal; this principle always acting and preserving the substance possessed of it from disso- lution, and from being changed according to the natural changes which other substances undergo. There are a great many powers in nature which the living principle does not enable the animal matter, with which it is combined, to resist, viz. the mechanical and most of the strongest chemical solvents. It renders it, however, capable of resisting the powers of fermentation, digestion, (and perhaps several others,) M^hich are well known to act on this same matter, and entirely to decompose it, when deprived of the living principle. The number of powers which thus act differently on the living and dead animal substance not being ascertained, we shall only take notice of two, putrefaction and digestion, which do not affect this substance, unless when it is deprived of the living principle. Putre- faction is an effect which arises spontaneously; digestion is an effect of another principle, and shall here be considered a little more particularly. Animals, or parts of animals, possessed of the living principle, when taken into the stomach, are not in the least affected by the powers of that viscus so long as the animal principle remains. Hence it is that we find animals of various kinds not only can live in the stomach, but are even hatched and bred there; yet the moment that any of these lose the living principle, they become subject to the digestive powers of the stomach. If it were possible for a man’s hand, for example, to be introduced into the stomach of a living animal, and kept there for some considerable time, it would be found that the dissolvent powers of the stomach could have no effect upon it; but if the same hand were sepa- rated from the body, and introduced into the same stomach, we should then find that the stomach could immediately act upon it. Indeed, if the first were not the case, the stomach itself ought to have been made of indigestible materials; for were not the living principle capable of preserving animal substances from being acted upon by the proces of di- gestion, the stomach itself would be digested ; and accordingly we find that the stomach, which at one instant, that is, while possessed of the living principle, was capable of resisting the digestive powers which it contained, the next moment, viz. when deprived of the living principle, is itself capable of being digested, not only by the digestive powers of