PREFACE. Ill There is also added, An Account of the Anatomy of the Jerboa,” contributed by Hunter to the Appendix to Russel’s History of Alepi^o. And, lastly, Descriptions of Five Marsupial Quadrupeds,” from the Zoological Appendix to White’s Voyage to New South Wales. (1790.) In order to bring these different memoirs in juxtaposition with papers on analogous subjects in the original edition of the Animal CEconomy, a slight alteration has been made in the ar- rangement of the different essays composing that work. Those which relate to generation are brought together at the begin- ning of the volume; then follow the observations on digestion, animal heat, and other physiological subjects; and lastly, the papers of a descriptive character, which refer more immediately to comparative anatomy and zoology. Thus for the first time are collected into one volume the physiological and anatomical stores, from which, in connexion with the materials composing his museum or destined for its illustration, an adequate idea may be formed of the nature of the great work in which Hunter had purposed to record the sum of his vast experience. In the year 1786, when Hunter published a collection of his detached memoirs in the first edition of the Animal GEconomy, he observes, with reference to the subject of digestion, ‘‘ I can- not at present spare sufficient time to give my opinions at large on this subject, with all the experiments and observations I have made upon it, but as soon as I have leisure I shall lay them before the public.” And again, in describing the organ of hearing in fishes, he premises that he reserves a more com- plete investigation of this part of natural history for a larger work on the structure of animals, which I one day hope to have it in my power to publish,” and he states that ever since the year 1760 his researches have been continued in every part of the animal ceconomy. Hence instead of regarding the uncom- mon structures which he discovered in his dissections of dif- ferent animals as individual peculiarities, he was enabled to ad- vance beyond the anatomists of his own times, and view them from the same eminence to which subsequent induction has raised the observers of the present day; and referring to the. a 2