CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 251 CROONIAN LECTURE ON MUSCULAR MOTION, No. IV. [The manuscript of this Lecture appears not to have been among those which were accessible to Mr. Clift, and from his copies of which the Lec- tures in the present volume have, with his permission, been printed. Its absence may, however, be accounted for, from the fact that the sub- stance of the Fourth Croonian Lecture was incorporated by Hunter in his work ‘ On the Blood,’ (see the Chapter on the Vascular System,) as is evident from the Abstract of the Lecture in the Archives of the Royal Society, the subjoined copy of which Abstract Mr. Palmer, with the per- mission of the President and Council, has obtained for the use of the present edition of Hunter’s Works.] [The Croonian Lecture on Muscular Motion, by Mr. John Hunter, was read on the 25th of May and 1st of June, 1780.] " The construction and general application of muscles in the animal body having been discussed by our author in three former lectures, he now proceeds to treat of the action of muscles on the blood-vessels, an inquiry which, however essentially it may contribute to our better ac- quaintance with the animal (economy, has yet, it seems, till now been but little attended to, the existence of muscular fibres in the system of blood- vessels being by no means obvious. “ Mr. H. finds it necessary previously to lay down some general prin- ciples concerning muscles, which he derives from their operations in those parts of the animal where their uses are well understood. “ A muscle he defines such an arrangement of animal matter as, whilst it is endowed with life, is fitted for self-motion. This motion, he says, consists in the contraction of the muscular fibres, in w^hich light he considers it as totally distinct from elasticity. And he ventures to assert that no part of an animal except the muscles is endowed with this power of self-motion. He acknowledges soon after that this power cannot be the sole eflfect of contraction, but that there must also be a power of relaxation, acting alternately, without which no effect could be produced. But even this relaxation, he says, is not sufficient to pro- duce any effect without a previous elongation; and as no muscle is, as such, possessed of this power of elongation, he considers it as the effect of antagonists of some kind or other, or of what may be called the elon- gators of the muscles, and says, that it is not in all cases muscular, but