4*29 OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. minutes the whole has gone back into the hive; and by the cold in- creasing, I have at length perceived the cause of their return. If rain is coming on, we observe them returning home in great quantities, and hardly any abroad. The eggs of bees require this heat as much as themselves, nor will the maggot live in a cold of 60° or 70°, nor even their chrysalis. This warmth keeps the wax so soft as to allow them to model it with ease. In glass hives, or those that have windows of glass in them, we often find a dew on the inside of the glass, especially when the glass is colder than the air within ; whether this is perspira- tion from the bees, both from their external surface and lungs, or eva- poration from the honey, I cannot say. Bees are very cleanly animals respecting themselves, although not so respecting the remains of their young. They, I believe, seldom or never evacuate their excrement in the hive. I have known them con- fined many days without discharging the contents of the rectum, and the moment they got abroad they evacuated in the air when flying; and they appear to be very nice in their bodies, for I have often de- tected them cleaning one another, more especially if by accident they are besmeared with honey. This animal may be considered alone, or so far as concerns its own oeconomy as an individual, which is common to the most solitary ani- mals ; but it can also be considered as a member of society, in which it is taking an active part, and in which it becomes an object of great curiosity. To consider this society individually, it may be said to consist of a female breeder, female non-breeders, and males ; but to consider it as a community, it may be said to consist only of female breeders and non- breeders, the males answering no other purpose than simply as a male, and are only temporary ; and it is probable the female breeder is to be considered in no other light than as a layer of eggs, and that she only influences the non-breeders by her presence, being only a bond of union, for without her they seem to have no tie; it is her presence that makes them an aggregate animal. May we not suppose that the offspring of the queen have an attachment to the mother, somewhat similar to the attachment of young birds to the female that brings them up } for al- though the times of their attachment are not equal, yet it is the depend- ence which each has on its mother that constitutes the bond; for bees have none without her : however, the similarity is not exact, for young animals who have lost their nurse will herd together, and jointly make the best shifts they can, because in future they are to become single animals; but bees have an eternal instinctive dependence on the mo- ther, probably from there not being distinct sexes. When the queen is