346 OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE it collapses, it looks almost like a fine net with small meshes. This structure confines the animal to a determined shape, whereas in qua- drupeds fat when in great quantity destroys all shape. The fat differs in consistence in different animals, and in different parts of the same animal, in which its situation is various. In quadru- peds some have the external fat softer than the internal, and that in- closed in bones is softest nearer to their extremities. Ruminating ani- mals have that species of fat called tallow, and in their bones they have either hard fat, or marrow, or fluid fat, called neat’s-foot oil. In this order of animals the internal fat is the least fluid, and is nearly of the consistence of hog’s-lard; the external is the common train oil. But the spermaceti whale differs from every other animal I have examined, having the two kinds of fat just mentioned, and another, which is totally different, called spermaceti, of which I shall give a particular account. What is called spermaceti is found everywhere in the body in small quantity, mixed with the common fat of the animal, bearing a very small proportion to the other fat. In the head it is the reverse, for there the quantity of spermaceti is large when compared to that of the oil, although they are mixed, as in the other parts of the body. As the spermaceti is found in the largest quantity in the head, and in what would appear on a slight view to be the cavity of the skull, from a peculiarity in the shape of that bone, it has been imagined by some to be the brain. These two kinds of fat in the head are contained in cells, or cellular membrane, in the same manner as the fat in other animals ; bat besides the common cells there are larger ones, or ligamentous partitions, going across, the better to support the vast load of oil of which the bulk of the head is principally made up. There are two places in the head where this oil lies; these are situ- ated along its upper and lower part, between them pass the nostrils, and a vast number of tendons going to the nose and different parts of the head. The purest spermaceti is contained in the smallest and least ligamen- tous cells : it lies above the nostril, all along the upper part of the head, immediately under the skin and common adipose membrane. These cells resemble those which contain the common fat in the other parts of the body nearest the skin. That which lies above the roof of the mouth, or between it and the nostril, is more intermixed with a liga- mentous cellular membrane, and lies in chambers whose partitions are perpendicular. These chambers are smaller the nearer to the nose, be- coming larger and larger towards the back part of the head, where the spermaceti is more pure. This spermaceti, when extracted cold, has a good deal the appearance