OF AIR-CELLS IN BIRDS. 185 many other animals which have not this extension of cavity. It is also a corroborating circumstance, that in the fowl the air might have passed by a much readier way than through the lungs into all the cells about the breast, neck, axilla, wings, &c., as these could have been filled from the lower end of the trachea, upon which many of them lie. But the air must now take a roundabout passage both in its way in and its way out, those openings being upon the exterior surface of the lungs. We must not, however, give up the idea of such structure being of use in flying; for I believe we may set it down as a general rule, that in the birds of longest and highest flight, as eagles, this diffusion of air is ex- tended further than in the others. This opinion is strengthened by comparing the structure above described with the respiratory organs in the flying insects, which are composed of cells diffused through the whole body; these are extended even into the head and down the ex- tremities ; while there is no such appearance in the insects that do not fly, as the spider : but why the pelican should be so amply provided I cannot say, not knowing the natural history of that bird sufficiently to be able to judge of this point. Do they carry weights in the large fauces so great as to require such an increase of substance without increase of weight ? How far this construction of the respiratory organs may assist birds in singing deserves investigation, as the vast continuance of song, be- tween the breathings, in a canary-bird would appear to arise from it. This is a subject, however, which I shall not at present enter upon^. » [The objection offered by Hunter in the preceding note to the use of the air-cells as accessory organs of respiration, is weakened, if not removed, by the anatomical fact that the bronchise open into them by such direct an(i wide apertures as to render it most probable that much of the air passes at once into the air-receptacles without having previously been decomposed in the vesicles of the lungs. It may be concluded, there- fore, that the respiratory function is heightened, in harmony with the increased energies of the circulating and locomotive powers in birds, by means of the extensive systein of continuous air-receptacles above described, which operate both by effecting a change in the blood of the pulmonary circulation in the return of the air of the cells through the bronchial tubes, and also by the change which the blood undergoes in the capilla- ries of the systemic circulation, which are in contact with the air-receptacles. A second use of the air-receptacles in reference to the respiratory function arises out of the mechanical aid which they afford in the action of breathing. During inspiration the sternum of the bird is depressed or recedes from the spine, the angle between the vertebral and sternal ribs is made less acute, and the thoracic cavity proportionally en- larged ; the air then rushes into the lungs and into the thoracic air-receptacles, while those of the abdomen become flaccid: when the sternum is raised, or approximated to- wards the spine, part of the air is expelled from the lungs and thoracic cells by the tra- chea, and part driven into the thoracic receptacles, which are thus alternately enlarged and diminished with those of the thorax. Hence the lungs, notwithstanding their fixed condition, are subject to due^ compression through the medium of the contiguous air-