256 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR xMOTION. fibre in every muscle when in action is under exactly the same circum- stances : therefore whatever variety may appear in muscular action, or difference between the action of different muscles, must depend upon the various causes and intentions of these actions. A muscle in action as it contracts becomes more dense or hard, and therefore d priori we should suppose it becomes less, as we can form no adequate idea of the same substance becoming firmer or harder without either an approximation of its parts, or an addition of new matter in- troduced into all its parts, or a particular position of the constituent parts of a muscular fibre, so as to become immoveable while in that po- sition. One circumstance, however, which makes muscular fibres firmer when contracted in the living body is, their always overcoming some resist- ance in such contraction, which puts them more or less in the situation of a stretched cord. Take the unattached hairs which compose the strings of the bow of a fiddle, and they will feel pliant or soft; but when put upon the stretch they will feel much firmer. An elastic body also, as India- rubber, feels much firmer while stretched than when contracted and at ease, by its natural elasticity. A muscular fibre, however, in the state of tension between the two points is little indebted to this cause for its firmness, although it will increase the effect produced by the position of its component parts ; for a muscular fibre unattached is very much increased in hardness while contracted, as in crimped fish^ and in the flesh of all animals allowed to die so gradually that the muscles, from the stimulus of death taking place, contract: but a muscle is as firm and as strong in all its degrees of contraction as it is in its full contrac- tion, if not firmer and stronger than in its ultimate ; therefore cannot be called contraction. It is its proximity of its parts arising from that attraction, not from the proximity of such parts mechanically, but at- tractively. Many authors of authority, as well physiologists as others, have at- tempted to explain the contraction of a muscular fibre; but, however ingenious their opinions may be, none of them completely account for any one particular, relative to muscular contraction; I shall, however, mention them, with the objections to which they are liable. In the investigation of this subject the following apparent alteration in the figure of a muscular fibre has been principally attended to: * [Sir Anthony Carlisle found that the contracted muscles in crimped fish had not only acquired a sensible rigidity, but also an increase of specific gravity. See his ‘Croonian Lecture for the year 1804,’ Philos. Trans., 1805, p. 1.]