OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. 440 know^. I observed that they often removed their eggs; I also find they very often shift the maggot into another cell, even when very large. The maggots grow larger and larger till they nearly fill the cell; and by this time they require no more food, and are ready to be inclosed for the chrysalis state : how this period is discovered I do not know, for in every other insect, as far as I am acquainted, it is an operation of the maggot or caterpillar itself; but in the common bee it is an operation of the perfect animal; probably it arises from the maggot refusing food. The time between their being hatched and their being inclosed is, I believe, four days ; at least, from repeated observations, it comes nearly to that time. When ready for the chrysalis state, the bees cover over the mouth of the cell with a substance of a light brown colour, much in the same manner that they cover the honey, excepting that in the pre- sent instance the covering is convex externally, and appears not to be entirely wax, but a mixture of wax and farina. The maggot is now perfectly inclosed, and it begins to line the cell and covering of the mouth above-mentioned with a silk it spins out similar to the silk- worm, and which makes a kind of pod for the chrysalis. Bonnet ob- served that in one instance the cell was too short for the chrysalis, and it broke its covering, and formed its pod higher or more convex than common: this I can conceive possible ; we often see it in the wasp. Having completed this lining, they cast off, or rather shove off, from the head backwards, the last maggot coat, which is deposited at the bottom of the cell, and then they become chrysalises. Of the Food of the Maggot, or what is commonly called Bee-Bread, One would naturally suppose that the food of the maggot bee should be honey, both because it is the food of the old ones, and it is what they appear principally to collect for themselves ; however, the circum- stance of honey being food for the old ones is no argument, because very few young animals live on the same food with the old, and there- fore it is probable the maggot bee does not live upon honey ; and if we reason from analogy, we shall be led to suppose the bee-bread to be the food of the maggot. It is the food of the maggot of the humble bee. ^ [It has not yet been ascertained that the larva of the bee sheds its skin, as the le- pidopterous caterpillars do, except when on the point of becoming a pupa, at which period a thin pellicle is also throwui out ])v each of the stigmata from the tracheal tubes.]