CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 211 matter which gives the intelligence. This leads us immediately to vo- luntary actions. The actions of muscles have hitherto only been considered by physi- ologists in the more perfect animals where this (the voluntary or nervous stimulus,) is given, which becomes a different cause of action from those found in other animals and vegetables. Those actions where the mind, being made sensible of them, may be considered as a cause, are called voluntary actions ; and those actions over which the mind has no influence, and about which it is not in the least consulted, are called involuntary actions. The actions of the mus- cles which go on without the influence of the mind, but can be re- strained, increased, or stopped by the mind, are called mixed. There are also actions which may be allowed to arise from a peculiarity in the state of mind, but not dependent on the will; these are common to both the voluntary and involuntary muscles. Thus an involuntary muscle, as the heart, increases its strokes, and the voluntary muscles of the hands, legs, tongue, &c. tremble when the mind is agitated by anger, fear, &c. These four kinds of action not only appear to arise from different causes, but produce different phenomena. The first kind, or voluntary motions, last only for stated times, be- yond which they cannot go, the muscles either losing the power alto- gether, or the mind becoming incapable of stimulating them; by which means a cessation of action takes place, which indeed is necessary for the preservation of the animal. For these actions, too long continued, weaken, hurt, or destroy the body; and therefore the mind which is under no restriction is thus prevented from continuing the action. We have this beautifully illustrated in some of the mixed motions: for where their involuntary motions are employed for the preservation of the animal, as in breathing, they are constant; and where the stimulus of necessity does not constantly take place they rest, as in the stomach, levator palpebrarum, &c.; but if we voluntarily increase the actions of these they soon tire. The natural involuntary actions of muscles are such as never tire, while the voluntary always do ; and we may observe that the muscles which are under the influence of both are never tired of their involun- tary actions, while they are of their voluntary. This we might suppose, was owing to this property being stamped upon them at first, and for very wise purposes ; but it rather appears to be a property arising from the mode of impression, viz. not being impressed by the will, but pro- bably acting from a general impression in the machine, viz. from gene-, ral principles; whereas the voluntary actions are caused by a peculiar impression of the will, and the muscles are so constituted as to tire of, p2