OF SOME BRANCHES OF THE FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. 193 A DESCRIPTION OF SOME BRANCHES OF THE FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. In tracing the course of the olfactory nerves, I also discovered seve- ral branches of the fifth pair not commonly known, particularly two that were supposed to go to the membrane’ of the nose for the sense of smell- ing, but which only pass through that organ to their place of destina- tion. The first is a small nerve from the first branch of the fifth pair; or, according to Winslow, the nervus ophthalmicus Willisii, which small nerve is called by Winslow the nasal. This branch, after having passed out of the skull into the orbit, re-enters the cranium through the fora- men orbitarium anterius, and gets on the cribriform plate of the eth- moid bone; from thence it passes down through one of the anterior holes of the cribriform plate, and after having continued its course in a groove on the nasal process of the frontal bone, runs forward and down- ward in a similar groove on the inside of the os nasi; from thence get- ting on the outside of the cavity of the nose, it runs along the cartila- ginous part of the ala, and near the extremity of the nose mounts up upon the tip of the ala, and then dipping down between the two alae, is lost on the anterior extremity of the cartilaginous septum. In its course it sends several small filaments into the alse. The second is a branch of the superior maxillary nerve; for that nerve, having passed through the foramen rotundum, divides and sends off several branches, one of which passing backwards and inwards, through the foramen comniune, between the orbitar process of the pa- late, and the root of the ala of the sphenoid bone, gives a branch which gets into a fissure that seems to separate the root of the ala from the body of the sphenoid bone, where that bone makes the roof of the nose. This branch then passes along the under surface of the body of the sphenoid bone, in its way to the septum narium, and getting upon that part, passes along between its membranes and the bone: its course is downwards, and forwards towards the foramen incisivum, through which it passes and is lost in the gum behind the first dentes incisores, and on the membrane of the roof of the mouth at that part. There is another branch of the superior maxillary nerve, which comes off from a large branch that is going down to the mouth, uvula, &c., and this branch, with its division into two, has been described by Professor Meckel, of Berlin ; but after tracing one of these into the portio dura, he pursued the search no further. This branch of the superior maxil- lar}" nerve passes back through the foramen pterygoideum, accompanies the carotid artery as it passes across the posterior edge of the foramen, VOL. IV. o