OF THE WOLF, JACKAL, AND DOG. 329 the South Sea Islands do not bark, our greyhound barks but little, while the mastiff and many of the smaller tribe, as spaniels, are particularly noisy in this way. There is reason to believe that the frequency of this noise may arise from imitation: for the dogs in the South Sea Islands learn to bark, the half-bred jackal barked, and so did the half-bred wolf, although but little; and others, as the hound, have a peculiar howl, by huntsmen called the tongue, which noise, and the barking also, are both made by opening the mouth. A variety in the voice or some parts of the voice, in varieties of the same species, is not peculiar to the dog. It is a curious circumstance that variety not only takes place in colour and form, from the change of habits in the parents, but that the dispo- sitions are also changed ; and that the dispositions are most commonly changed in such a way as appears best adapted to the form of the ani- mal. The change in the habits of the parent animal arise principally from its connection with the human kind, which has now succeeded in training dogs so as to fit them, both in body and mind, for almost every purpose of human oeconomy, as if man himself had formed them ex- pressly with such intention, while at the same time he can only be con- sidered as an occasional cause, for we may observe that all the males of the wolf kind are nearly the same, and so are likewise those of the jackal, having little or no variety in their dispositions. Those of the half-breed, and even those that are three removes, although tame, yet have not the docility of dogs, nor are they so immediately at the command of the human will; neither are they perfectly satisfied with an artificial life, having when left to themselves a propensity to fall back into their original instinctive principles^. The following account from Mr. Jenner, of Berkeley, to whom I gave a second remove, viz., three parts dog, is very descriptive of this pro- pensity : “ The little jackal-bitch you gave me is grown a fine handsome ani- mal ; but she certainly does not possess the understanding of common dogs. She is easily lost when I take her out, and is quite inattentive to a whistle. She is more shy than a dog, and starts frequently when ® [The range of deviation from the original type appears to be greater in the dog than in any other known species. Besides the well-known and considerable differ- ences in the quantity, colour, and texture of the hair, and in the size, form, and pro- portions of the body, in some individuals an additional false grinder appears; and there is a race of dogs which have a supernumerary toe on the hind-foot, with the corre- sponding tarsal bones •;—a variety analogous to the Dorking (or five-toed) fowl, and to the six-fingered families of the human race.] ^ [Cuv. Disc. Prelim. Ossem. Fossiles, Ed. iv. tom. i. p. 205.]