85 OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. as there are some birds whose stomachs do not seem sufficiently strong to have the power of trituration, he selected the buzzard as being of that kind, and the fittest for the subject of his experiments, from the circumstance of its throwing up whatever is solid and indigestible ; therefore, without killing the bird, he could know the result, and repeat the experiment as often as he thought necessary. From the stomach in the buzzard being incapable of trituration, he concluded that a solvent was necessary for digestion; but, to preclude all mechanical effects of the stomach, in his experiments he employed tin tubes filled with meat, which, after the tubes had remained twenty- four hours in the stomach of the buzzard, was reduced to three fourths of its size, was like threads, and was neither putrid, sour, nor volatile, but insipid. On this effect he made his remarks, which are very perti- nent. In another experiment, which was still more accurate and con- clusive, he was convinced of the action of a solvent. He then tried the soft bones of young animals, and found they were digested; and that though the hard bones were not acted on so readily, yet, by returning the same bones several times into the stomach, they were digested at last. Reaumur was next anxious to know if such birds as were intended by Nature to live upon meat could also digest vegetables; but the re- sult was not so satisfactory. He gave bread to his buzzard, which upon being returned had the appearance of having been chewed. He next tried'a piece of ripe pear, which, after having been twenty-four hours in the stomach, had lost some of its weight, and had the appearance of being boiled or baked; and thence he concludes that its powers are too weak to digest vegetables so as to nourish the animal. To ascertain the nature of the liquor which had such powers, he tasted the jelly to which the meat and bone had been reduced, supposing that it must be well impregnated with this fluid; but he could only distin- guish a bitter or a saltish taste. To have an opportunity of more cer- tainly determining the nature of this solvent, he made his buzzard swallow small tubes filled with sponge, which imbibed fifty grains of this liquor, having the same taste as the jelly, and changing blue paper to a red. He tried the effects of this liquor on meat out of the body, with comparative experiments in water; and after twenty-four hours the meat in the water was become putrid ; but that in the liquor from the stomach was only softened, not dissolved. To see how far the ana- logy held good in membranous stomachs, he gave two bones to a dog, which being killed after twenty-six hours, they were found lessened in size, and become as soft as horn. He found that the stomach of the dog did not alter the shape of any of his tubes. He conveyed grass and hay, inclosed in tubes, into the stomachs of