161 ON THE HEAT OF VEGETABLES. ' This experiment was repeated three times with the same success. Here the tree was cooler than the atmos])here, when one should rather have expected to find it warmer, since it could not be sujiposed to have as yet lost its former day’s heat. Exp. II. April 4th, half-past five in the evening. The tree at 56°, the atmosphere at 62°; the tree therefore still cooler than the atmo^ sphere. Exp. III. April 5th. Wind in the north, a coldish day, six o’clock in the evening ; the thermometer in the tree was at 55°, the atmosphere at 47°; the tree warmer than the atmosphere. Exp. IV. April 7th, a cold day, wind in the north, cloudy. At three in the afternoon the thermometer in the tree was at 42°, the at- mosphere at 42° also. Exp. V. April 9th, a cold day, with snow, hail, and wind in the north-east. At six in the evening the thermometer in the tree at 45°, the atmosphere at 39°. Here the tree was warmer than the atmosphere, just as might have been expected. If these experiments prove anything, it is that there is no standard ; and probably these variations arose from some circum- stance which had no immediate connexion with the internal powers of the tree ; but it may also be supposed to have arisen from a power in the tree to produce or diminish heat, as some of them were in opposi- tion to the atmosphere. After having endeavoured to find out the comparative heat between v%etables and the atmosphere when the vegetables were in action, I next made my experiments upon them when they were in the passive life. As tlie difference was very little when in their most active state, I could expect but very little when the powers of the plant were at rest. . From experiment upon the more imperfect classes of animals it plainly appears, that although they do not resist the effects of extreme cold till they are brought to the freezing point, they then appear to have the power of resisting it, and of not allowing their cold to be brought much lower. To see how far vegetables are similar to those animals in this respect, I made several experiments : I however suspected them not to be simi- lar, because such animals will die in a cold in which vegetables do live ; i therefore supposed that there was some other principle. I did not confine these experiments to the walnut-tree, but made si- milar ones on several trees of different kinds, as pines, yews, poplars, &c., to see what was the difference in different kinds of trees. The difference proved not to be great, not above a degree or two: however, this dif- VOL. IV. M