488 DESCRIPTIONS OF SOME ANIMALS The fore legs are short in comparison to the hind. There are four toes on the fore feet“, the two middle are long, and nearly of equal lengths, with long narrow nails, slightly bent; the two side toes are short, and nearly equal in size, but the outer rather the largest. From the nails on the two middle toes one would suppose that the animal bur- rowed. Their hind legs are long, and it is in their power to stand either on the whole foot, or on the toes only. On the hind legs are three toes, the middle one large, and the two side ones short'^; the tail is long. The hair on the body is rather thin; it is of two kinds, a fur, and a long hair, which last becomes exterior from its length. The fur is the finest, and is composed of serpentine hairs; the long hair is stronger, and is also serpentine, for more than two-thirds of its length near to the skin, and terminates in a pretty strong pointed end, like the quill of a hedgehog; it is of a browmish grey colour, something like the brown or grey rabbit, with a tinge of a greenish yellow. It has a pouch on the lower part of the belly; the mouth opens for- wards, and the cavity extends backwards to the pubis, where it termi- nates ; on the abdominal surface of this pouch are four nipples or two pair, each pair placed very near the other‘s. The Hepoona Roo^. This animal is of the size of a small rabbit; it has a broad flat body ; the head a good deal resembles that of the squirrel; the eyes are full. by Hunter, and figiued in the Appendix to White’s Voyage, are preserved in the Musenin of the College of Surgeons. The skull agrees in size and form, as also the proportions of the stuffed skin, with the skeleton of the Hypsiprymnus murinus, given in Pander and D’Alton’s ‘ Skelete der Beutelthiere,^ tab. iii. We give the following admeasurements from the original specimen: ft. in. In. From the end of the nose to the vent 13 0 Length of the tail 0 8 7-| Length of the skull 0 3 3 Length of the foot 0 3 3 The Hypsiprymnus murinus of Illiger is the Hypsiprymnus White of Quoy and Gai- mard, the Macropus minor of Shaw.] ® [In the specimen here described, as in the rest of the genus, there are five toes on the fore foot, but the fifth is so small as scarcely to perform any part of the office of a toe.] [There are four toes on this foot, as in the great kangaroo, but the two inner ones are so conjoined by a common sheath of integument as to act as but one.] “ [The genera Macropus and Hypsiprymnus are principally distinguished from the other marsnpialia anatomically hy having a large stomach, complicated with sacculi, ju oduced as in the colon, by being puckered u})on longitudinal bands.] [This animal is the type of the genus Pefaurus, which is characteidzed by the fol- lowing dental formula: incisors molarcs spuria* molares tuberculati i-l^ = 31. 2 0.0 4.4