ANATOMICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE TORPEDO. 411 and either one or two internal. In the second row they are mostly pentagons. Their coats are very thin, and seem transparent, closely connected with each other, having a kind of loose network of tendinous fibres, passing transversely and obliquely between the columns, and uniting them more firmly together. These are mostly observable where the large trunks of the nerves pass. The columns are also attached by strong inelastic fibres, passing directly from the one to the other. The number of columns in different torpedos of the size of that now offered to the Society appeared to be about 470 in each organ, but the number varies according to the size of the fish*. These columns in- crease, not only in size, but in number, during the growth of the ani- mal ; new ones forming perhaps every year on the exterior edges, as there they are much the smallest. This process may be similar to the formation of new teeth in the human jaw as it increases. Each column is divided by horizontal partitions (PI. liv. fig. 3, h. h.) placed over each other, at very small distances, and forming numerous interstices, which appear to contain a fluid. These partitions consist of a very thin membrane, considerably transparent. Their edges ap- pear to be attached to one another, and the whole is attached by a fine cellular membrane to the inside of the columns. They are not totally detached from one another: I have found them adhering at different places by blood-vessels passing from one to another. The number of partitions contained in a column of one inch in length, of a torpedo which had been preserved in proof spirit, appeared on a careful examination to be one hundred and fifty; and this number in a given length of column appears to be common to all sizes in the same state of humidity, for by drying they may be greatly altered; wdience it appears probable that the increase in the length of a column, during the growth of the animal, does not enlarge the distance between each partition in proportion to that growth; but that new partitions are formed, and added to the extremity of the column from the fascia. The partitions are very vascular^ ; the arteries are branches from the vessels of the gills which convey the blood that has received the influence * In a very large Torpedo, (see the preparation No. 2176, Physiological Series,) the number of columns in one electric organ were 1182. “ [See prep. No. 2176, which is the section of a Torpedo, of very large size, taken in Torbay in August, 1774. It weighed fifty-three pounds, was four feet in length, two feet and a half in breadth, and four inches and a half in thickness. Mr. Hunter having received this fish in a recent state was enabled to inject it, and thus demon- strate the vascularity of the electrical organs.]