84 OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. titled to no merit from this idea, as the premises are false, yet this opinion of his set Reaumur to work, and has been the means of bring- ing several curious facts to light^. The experiments of Reaumur were first made wdth a view to confute that opinion, and therefore birds hav- ing gizzards were adapted to his purpose. In this pursuit he only at- tended to such parts of the experiments as best accorded with his own opinion, yet carefully guarded against every possible accident that might affect their accuracy. Had trituration been the immediate cause of di- gestion, his experiments on the gizzards of birds were unnecessary; since it would have been sufficient to have examined the food after it had been masticated by the teeth of animals who have grinders, the teeth and gizzard answering one and the same purpose. But the cir- cumstance of animals which masticate their food in their mouth having also a stomach, should have taught that there was something more in digestion than trituration. . Reaumur’s first experiments were made to ascertain the strength of the gizzard, with its effects, to prove that sharp cutting substances when swallowed in no way injured its internal coat, and that the common food of the bird was not dissolved when guarded against its action. -Yet, after all these proofs, he seems to doubt, and says, “ Are we to conclude that grinding alone is sufficient to convert the grain and other aliment into a matter proper for the nutrition of the animal, without undergoing any other preparation ? Several reasons seem to oppose this : trituration alone might reduce the grain into a flour; but flour • alone is not chyle.” “ From the smell of the aliment (taken from the gizzards of birds) are we not led to conclude that it undergoes a fer- mentation ? This smell may be said to arise from the liquor with which the aliment is mixed; but is it likely that juices do not dispose to fer- mentation substances in which it is so easily excited ? Fruit and flour, made into a paste, require little more than heat to make them ferment.” From these experiments, made with a view to prove that digestion is carried on by trituration, Reaumur was led to suppose a solvent. But “ [In this historical sketch, so rare in the writings of Hunter, of the opinions enter- tained by previous physiologists on the subject of digestion, the suggestion by Tyson of the existence and use of a solvent or corrodent fluid ought to have had a place. In his Anatomy of a Rattlesnake he observes, “ The food, before it can prove aliment, must be comminuted, and broken into the smallest particles; which in these membranous stomachs I can’t see how it can be performed but by corrosion. A principal menstruum in doing this I take to be that liquor which is discharged by the glands that are seated, in some, at the beginning of the throat, and are called salival; or just above the sto- mach or gizzard of birds, and called the echinus ; or in others in the stomach itself, and called the glandulous coat, and such I take the inner coat of the stomach of our rattle- snake to be.”—Philos. Trans.^ xiii. 1G83, p. 33.]