42 OF THE FREE-MARTIN. Thirdly, the cremaster muscle passed up from the rings of the abdomi- nal muscles to the testicles, as it does in the ridgil’^. There were the two bags placed behind, between the bladder and the uterus. Tlieir ducts opened into the vagina, a very little way beyond the opening of the urethra; but there was nothing similar to the vasa deferentia. As the external parts had more of the cow than the bull, the clitoris, which may be reckoned an external part, was also similar to that of the cow, not at all in a middle state, between the penis of the bull and the clitoris of the cow, as I have described in the hermaphrodite horse. There were four teats : the glandular part of the udder was but small. This animal cannot be said to have been a mixture of all the parts of both sexes, for the clitoris had nothing similar to the penis in the male, and it was deficient in the female parts, by having nothing similar to the ovaria; neither had the uterus a cavity. Mr. Arhuthnofs Free-Martin\. The external parts were rather smaller than in the cow. The vagina passed on, as in the cow, to the opening of the urethra, and then it began to contract into a small canal, which passed on to the division of the uterus into the two horns, each horn passing along the edge of the broad ligament laterally towards the ovaria. At the termination of these horns were placed both the ovaria and the testicles; they were nearly of the same size, and about as large as a small nutmeg. To the ovaria^ I could not find any Fallopian tube. To the testicles were vasa deferentia, but they were imperfect. The left one did not reach near to the testicle; the right only came close to it, but did not terminate in a body called the epididymis. They were both pervious, and opened into the vagina near the opening of the ure- thra. * Although I call these bodies testicles, for the reason given, yet they were only imitations of them, for when cut into they had nothing of the structure of the testicle; not being similar to anything in Nature, they had more the appearance of disease. From the seeming imperfection of the animal itself, it was not to be supposed that they should be testicles; for then the animal should have partaken of the bull, which it cer- tainly did not. f This animal was seven years old; had been often yoked with the oxen; at other times went with the cows and bull; but never showed any desires for either the one or the other. [It is probable that these bodies were, as in the case previously noted, remains of the corpora Wolffiana.]