CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 203 food, and procreate in the day; while others are inactive and fixed to one spot, without apparent motion, all day, but on the approach of night become all at once animated, fly abroad, seek their food, and procreate. These actions are, nevertheless, produced by one and the same cause. The owl and hawk are similar in their food, yet dissimilar in their times of catching it: hunger is the first stimulus, animal food is the second; light stimulates the one to motion, darkness the other*. The action, however, in both arises from the same principle. These three kinds of motion in plants are influenced by various cir- cumstances, and sometimes are all totally suspended f. This is gene- rally produced by cold, and shows them to be influenced by the seasons ; often this cessation takes place when much weakened by transplanting, &c. I have kept a fir alive for three years without the least growth. The second and third kind of actions commonly take place only when the first kind of action is in full vigour, because the first must produce the only parts which are capable of the second and third ; and these two last can only be of service to the first when it is in full force, nou- rishing the vegetable and performing the action of propagation. These actions are almost entirely suspended in some animals from cold, they being in this respect subject to seasons as well as plants. This is most remarkable in the simplest in their construction, and be- comes less and less so in the more complicated, they being better adapted to the various seasons. The first of these kinds of action is small and insensible, although its effects are great. The second is considerable in both vegetables and animals, but most so in animals. The third is almost peculiar to ani- mals, as there are very few vegetables visibly affected by external sti- mulus, while all animals seem to be so. The variety of motions is greater in animals, and more purposes are answered by them, which constitutes the great difference between the actions of a vegetable and an animal; for those powers in an animal not only move themselves, but also other ]>arts of the same body, which in many instances are so mechanically constructed as to move common matter. A remarkable instance of this is the human hand; and it is by this means all our various operations on the matter of this globe are performed. The first kind of action appears to be stronger in its power, although * It may be supposed that there is a physical cause for the one seeing only in the day, the other only at night; but it is having a much more enlarged idea of an animal to suppose that the senses are adapted to the first principle than the first principle to the senses. t Similar to drowned people.