315 ON THE GROWTH OF BONES. EXPERIMENTS AND OBSERVATIONS ON THE GROWTH OF BONES, FROM THE PAPERS OF THE LATE MR. HUNTER. [^Ptiblished by Mr. {afterwards Sir Everard) Home, in the Second Volume of the Trans- actions of a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge.^ Read October 4, 1798. ]Mr. HUNTER’S Observations on the Growth of Bones have been mentioned in his lectures ever since the year 1772, the first year in which he gave lectures, and have been since adopted by the principal teachers of anatomy in London; it was therefore natural for me to suppose that they were generally known. In this, however, I find I have been mistaken, since the present Professor of Anatomy in Edinburgh, in a late publication, declares himself an advocate for the doctrine of Du Hamel; and from what he advances, it appears that he was not at all acquainted with Mr. Hunter’s experiments upon this subject. Under these circumstances I lay before the Society Mr. Hunter’s ex- periments and observations, that they may be made known to the public‘s. It was some time anterior to the year 1772 that Mr. Hunter began to investigate this subject, and an account of the experiments and obser- vations was given to me to copy in that year, as a part of his future lectures. Du Hamel had published a very ingenious theory upon the growth of bones, which he endeavoured to support by experiments tending to prove that bones grow by the extension of their parts. With this doctrine Mr. Hunter was not satisfied, and instituted experiments to determine the truth of Du Hamel’s opinion. Mr. Hunter began his experiments by feeding animals with madder, which has a property of tinging with a red colour that part only of the bone which is added while the animal is confined to this particular food^. ^ [This record contains little more than a brief notice of the general results of Mr. Hunter’s Obsen^ations and Experiments on the Growth of Bone.] [This effect of madder upon bone (first described in England by Belchier, Phil. Trans., vol. xxxix., 1736, p. 287.) depends on the following chemical properties. The colouring principle of the Rubia Tinctorum has a strong affinity to phosphate of lime, which earth, if artificially precipitated from a solution of madder, carries down with it the colouring matter in a state of combination, which water does not distimb. The colouring principle of madder is hardly soluble in water, but is readily and abundantly soluble in albuminous flmds, and, consequently, when taken into the sy-