316 ON THE GROWTH OF BONES. He fed two pigs with madder for a fortnight, and at the end of that period one of them was killed ; the bones, upon examination externally, had a red appearance; when sections were made of them, the exterior part was found to be principally coloured, and the interior was much less tinged. The other pig was allowed to live a fortnight longer, but had now no madder in its food; it was then killed, and tlie exterior part of the bones was found of the natural colour, but the interior was red. He made many other experiments of the same kind upon the increase of the thickness of the neck and head of the thigh bone. From thence it appeared that the addition of new matter was made to the upper sur- face, and a proportional quantity of the old removed from the lower, so as to keep the neck of the same form, and relatively in its place‘s. stem as food, it is carried along, dissolved in the serum of the circulating blood, and is deposited, combined with the phosphate of lime, wherever that salt is separated from the blood to contribute to the increase or reparation of bone. There are still, however, some points connected with this subject to be determined before the reasoning from experiments with madder on the growth of bone can have all the desirable exactness. Whether, e. g. the colouring principle of madder, after having been precipitated from the blood in combination with the phosphate of lime, remains in the bone until the particles of the earth are themselves removed,—or whether the colouring matter may again be redissolved in the serum of the blood circulating through the substance of the bone,—are questions not yet definiiively settled; but there is much reason for believing that the colouring matter may be removed without the earth Avith which it had been combined. Accordingly, although an inference may be safely drawn with respect to the part of a growing bone which receives the acces- sions of osseous substance, by observing the part which is coloured with madder, yet we cannot so certainly conclude that a superficial colourless layer, in an animal killed after remission of the madder, is a new deposit, since it may be the old, from which the madder has been removed, after having been redissolved in the serum. That the madder “ tinges with a red colour that part only of the bone w hich is added,” as is stated in the text, is an assertion, not only unsupported by any physiological rea- soning, but directly in contradiction to Hunter’s own statement, “ that any part of a bone which is already formed is capable of being dyed with madder, though not so fast as the part that is forming.” See Vol. ii. p. 17. I may observe, incidentally, that the phaenomena under consideration throw light upon the chemical condition under which phosphate of lime is contained in the living body. Since the colouring principle of madder has no aflinity for lime or calcium alone, it is clear that the phosphate of lime is not contained in the blood or the bones as phosphorus, oxygen, and calcium, but that it exists as a binary compound, and is mixed as phosphate of lime w ith the cartilage or animal basis of the bones.] " [Amongst the original draw ings of the bones coloured by madder in the Hunterian experiments, besides those of the thigh-bone referred to in the text, there arc three which illustrate the mode and fhrection of increase of the low’er jaw, showing that the new bone is deposited in greatest proportion on the upper and posterior part of the ascending ramus, by which the rest of the jaw is pushed forwards, while the bone is absorbed from the anterior part of the ramus, and thus the sockets of the posterior grinders are gradually brought into line, with a free space above for the teeth to come