32 ON THE GLANDS CALLED VESICULiE SEMINALES. vesiculae to be reservoirs, yet, as it was necessary that the semen should be accumulated somewhere before ejection, I shall endeavour to prove, from the mode of copulation in the animals we are best acquainted with, that the bulb is intended for that purpose. Let us, therefore, give a short account of the different parts concerned in coition; and by ob- serving the dependence which they have upon one another, see how this proof will come out. • The erection of the penis is produced by a stop being put to the re- turning blood, and this stoppage is so complete, that no mechanical pressure applied to the body of the penis can force the blood on into the veins. This erection answers two purposes; it gives size and strength to the penis, and it renders the canal of the urethra smaller. The corpus spongiosum of the urethra and the glans, which is only a continuation of it, are filled with blood from the same cause, but not so completely as the body of the penis, since from them it can be forced out into the veins by pressure*. This accumulation of blood in the corpus spongiosum diminishes the canal of the urethra so much, that any pressure upon one part of it will have a considerable effect upon the other; not only by lessening its capacity at the part pressed, but by forcing the blood forward, the parts beyond will be still more distended, and consequently the canal of the urethra be in that proportion dimi- nished. The semen, in the time of copulation, in such animals as remain long in that act, is gradually squeezed along the vasa deferentia (as it is secreted) into the bulb; and when the testicles cease to secrete, the paroxysm, which is to finish the whole operation, comes on. The se- • In April 1760, in the presence of Mr. Blount, I laid bare the penis of a dog, al- most through its whole length; traced the two veins that came from the glans (which in this animal makes the largest part of the penis), and separated them from the arte- ries by dissection, that I might be able to compress them at pleasure without affecting the arteries. I then compressed the two veins, and found that the glans and large bulb became full and extended; but when I irritated the veins, in order to see if there was any power of contraction in them which might occasionally stop the return of the blood, no such appearance could be observed^. • [From this experiment, it is obvious that Hunter regarded the stoppage of the cir- culation through the veins as being produced by external compression. Douglas {Myo- graphia Comparata Specimen, p. 9,) had previously described the muscles which com- press the vena dorsalis penis in the dog; and Cowper had more fully and particularly detailed the structure and actions of the muscles which have a corresponding office in the opossum, observing that “ the muscles of the cavernous bodies of the penis of this creature, having no connexion with the os pubis, cannot apply the dorsum penis to the last-named bone, and compress the vein of the penis, whereby to retard the refluent blood and cause an erection, as we have observed in other creatures; but some large veins of the penis here take a different course, and pass through the middle parts of the