449 OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. Besides the short observations contained in the notes, I beg leave to observe that I have my doubts respecting the whole of these experiments, from several circumstances which occurred in mine. The three fol- lowing facts appear much against their probability ; first, a summer’s evening in this country is commonly too cold for so small a parcel of bees to be lively, so as to set about new oi^erations; they get so be- numbed that they hardly recover in the day, and I should suspect that where these experiments were made (and indeed some are said to have been tried in this country), it is also too cold : secondly, if the weather should hajDpen to be so warm as to prevent this effect, then they are so restless that they commonly destroy themselves, or wear themselves out; at least, after a few days’ confinement we find them mostly dead : and thirdly, the account given of the formation of a royal cell, without mentioning the above inconvenience, which is natural to the experiment, makes me suspect the whole to be fabricated. To obviate the first ob- jection, which I found from experiment to prevent any success that otherwise might arise, I put my parcel of bees, with their comb, in which were eggs, as also maggots, and in some of the trials there were chrysalises*, into a warmer place, such as a glass frame over tan, the surface of which was covered with mould to prevent the rising of un- wholesome air ; but from knowing that the maggot was fed with bee- bread, or farina, I took care to introduce a cell or two with this sub- stance, as also the flow^ers of plants that produce a great deal of it, likewise some honey for the old ones. In this state my bees were pre- served from the cold, as also provided with necessaries ; but after being confined several days, upon opening the door of the hive, what were alive came to the door, walked and flew about, but gradually left it, and on examining the combs, &c., I found the maggots dead, and nothing like any operation going on. The queen, the mother of all, in whatever way produced, is a true female, and different from both the labourers and the male. She is not so large in the trunk (abdomen) as the male, and appears to be rather larger in every part than the labourers. The scales on the under sur- face of the belly of the labourers, are not uniformly of the same colour over the whole scale ; that part being lighter which is overlapped by the terminating scale above, and the uncovered part being darker; this * I chose to have some chrysalises, for I supposed that if my bees died or flew away, the chrysalises when they came out, which would happen in a few days, not knowing where to go, might stay and take care of the maggots that might be hatehed from the eggs ; but to my surprise, I found that neither the eggs hatched, nor did the chrysalises come forth; all died; from which I began to suspect that the presence of the bees was necessary for both. VOL. IV. 2g