ACCOUNT OF A WOMAN, ETC. 80 not partake. A woman, who had long before suffered the smallpox, nursed her husband, under that disease, towards the end of her preg- nancy ; and was brought to bed at the due time. The child was dead, and covered all over with variolous pustules.’* With respect to the case quoted from Mauriceau, it has been proved by Sir Greorge Baker (Med. Transact., vol. ii. p. 275,) that Dr. Mead drew a conclusion from it directly contrary to the author’s meaning. The negative opinion appears evidently to be supported by that history. Sir George Baker mentions in the same paper the case of two preg- nant women who were inoculated at Hertford. They both had the smallpox favourably, and afterwards brought forth their children per- fectly healthy at the usual time. Both these children, at the age of three years, were inoculated with effect. Sir George Baker likewise mentions a case which fell under the ob- servation of Dr. Clarke of Epsom. “ A woman towards the end of her pregnancy had the smallpox, from which she narrowly escaped. Five weeks after the crisis she was delivered of a healthy female child, who having numerous marks on her skin was judged by all who saw her to have undergone the same distemper before her birth. However, at the end of twelve months she had the smallpox in a very severe manner. Both the mother and child were lately living at Epsom.” Since, then, we see that it is very probable that the smallpox may be caught from the mother when she is infected, it may be asked why does not this happen oftener ? In answer to this we may suppose that this is not so ready a way as when the child is exposed to catch it after the birth, as we find too that a difference can be produced after birth; viz. inoculation is a much readier way of catching it than what is called the natural way. It may likewise be said that many women who are with child, and have the smallpox during pregnancy, do not recover ; there- fore both mother and child die before the disease can have time to pro- duce eruptions upon the child. Finally, in many of those cases where the mother recovers, there is sometimes produced a miscarriage, which also hinders the infection from taking place in the child. However, many women go through the whole disease, and the child shows no marks of the smallpox. Thus have I stated facts relative to the present subject, with some of the best authorities on both sides of the question; and shall now leave the reader to form his own judgement.