37. OF THE FREE-MARTIN. stitute an hermaphrodite, that the parts peculiar to the one sex should be blended with those of the other, in the same way that the penis is with the clitoris, yet this sometimes takes place in parts whose use in the distinct sexes is somewhat similar, the testicle and ovarium some- times forming one body, without the properties of either. This com- pounded part in those animals that have the testicle and ovarium dif- ferently situated is generally found in the place allotted for the ovarium; but in such animals as have the testicle and ovarium in the same situ- ation, as the bird tribe, the compound of the two, when it occurs, will also be found in that common situation. The parts of the female appropriated for the purpose of supplying the young with nourishment are variously placed in different animals. In the horse, black cattle, sheep, and other graminivorous animals, their situation is between the hind legs; and this being also the place allotted for the testicles of the male of this tribe, and probably of all those in which the testicles come out of the cavity of the belly; in the herma- phrodite therefore, which has both these parts, the testicles must to a certain degree descend into the udder, though that cannot receive them so readily as the scrotum. The hermaphrodites which I have seen have always appeared exter- nally and at first view to be females, from the penis being the part prin- cipally deficient, and there being an opening behind like the bearing in the female; and as the testicles in such hermaphrodites seldom come down, the udder is left to occupy its proper place. In animals the fe- male of which is preserved for breeding only, as sheep, goats, pigs, &c., these are generally kept, from their being supposed to be females. Among horses such hermaphrodites are very frequent: I have seen several, but never dissected any. The most complete was one in which the testicles had come down out of the abdomen into the place where the udder should have been (viz. more forward than the scrotum), and, though not so pendulous as the scrotum in the perfect male of such animals, had all the appearance of an udder. There were also two di- stinct nipples, which, although they exist in the male, have no perfect form, being blended with the sheath or prepuce, of which there was none here. The external female parts were exactly similar to those of the perfect female; but instead of a common-sized clitoris, there was one about five or six inches long, which when erect pointed almost directly backwards. I procured a foal-ass, very similar in external appearance to the horse above mentioned, and killed it to examine the parts. It had two nipples, but the testicles were not come down as in the above, owing perhaps to