266 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. If, in stretching a contracted muscle after death, the fibres are not drawn out beyond this power of recoil, the whole contraction of the muscle (whatever quantity it is,) continues the same; but if the muscle is drawn out further than this power of recoil, then the muscle becomes so far relaxed, but no further; for instance, if the recoil is the one twelfth of an inch, and the muscle is only stretched so far, then the muscle will contract again one twelfth of an inch; but if it is stretched one sixth of an inch, then it will still only recoil one twelfth, the other one twelfth being the absolute relaxation of the muscle. From all that is mentioned above, I think it will appear that relaxation of a muscular fibre depends upon life as much as the contraction, neither the one nor the other being produced after death by any property in the muscle. The causes of relaxation are few; the will is perhaps the principal one, although not in all muscles. Emotion of the mind would appear to have a power of stopping the action of the heart, but is perhaps only hindering a new contraction. The contraction and relaxation of a muscle are always adapting themselves to the motions of the parts on which they are to act, so that if a joint continues bent for some time the muscle will retain it in that situation, and any extension of that joint will put the muscular fibres on the stretch. This is not, as has been supposed, a contraction of the tendon, but a contraction in the muscle, to adapt it to the remaining motion in the joint, this half contracted state becoming now’ the state of relaxation from which the muscle is in future to produce its action. The point of relaxation of a muscle, therefore, is always the extent of motion in the joint, and the quantity of contraction of a muscle is al- ways equal to the full motion of the joint on which it acts, and if the joint loses part of its motion the muscle also loses a proportionable de- gree of contraction, so as still to be adapted to it. Muscles, however, so contracted, may be gradually stretched to their original length, and recover their original action, as the biceps flexor cubiti after inflammations, and abscesses in the arm. Muscles may be also stretched beyond their original length, and still retain their use, as those of the belly in dropsies. These circumstances prove that accidents to the body are provided against in its construction ; for if the muscles remained in the half-bent state in the cases above mentioned, the length of muscle would be too great for the quantity of motion, and the first part of its action would produce no effect upon the joint.