292 OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING IN FISHES. AN ACCOUNT OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING IN FISHES". Natural history, having ever been considered as worthy the atten- tion of the curious philosopher, has in all ages kept pace with the other branches of knowledge ; and as both arts and sciences have of late years been cultivated to a degree perhaps beyond what was ever known before, we find that natural history has not been neglected. All the nations of Europe appear solicitous to encourage the study; and in this island it has been pursued with more philosophic ardour than was ever known in any country. It has become an object of pursuit to men possessed of affluent fortune ; which they have not only dedicated to the cultivation of this science, but have even risked their health and lives in exploring unknown regions to increase the sources of information, and in settling correspondences everywhere, so as to bring materials into this country that might render it the school of natural history. It is no wonder then that a spirit of inquiry is diffused through almost all ranks of men ; and that those who cannot pursue it themselves, yet choosing at least to be- nefit by the industry of others, are eager to be informed of what is al- ready known. These reflections have induced me to publish this short account of the organ of hearing in fishes; for, though the existence of such an organ is now known to many, it is still a subject of dispute with others whether they possess the sense or not^. » [Originally communicated to the Royal Society, and printed in the Philosophical Transactions (vol. Ixxii. p. 379) for the year 1782.] ^ [Cuvier justly states that the structure of the organ of hearing was better known to some of the aneient anatomists in the class of fishes than even in the human sul)- ject. Casserius has given moderately good figures of the semicircular canals and the ossiculum auditus of the pike in his work entitled Pentestesion (p. 224), published in the year 1600. Steno, in the Acta Medica of Copenhagen for 1673, described the in- ternal ear of the Squalus Mustelus, Linn., with tolerable exactness, although without figures. Klein, in his Missus Histories Piscium permovendee, printed in the year 1740, gives a detailed description and accurate figures of the ossicula of the ear of the pike, salmon, trout, umber, marene {Salmo Mareena, L.), herring, cod, dorsch {Gadus callarius, L.), ling, pike-perch, perch, gremille, stickleback, turbot, sole, barbue {Pleuronectes Rhom- bus, L.), carp, barbel, and many other species of Cyprinus. In 1753, Etienne-Louis Geolfroy, a physician of Paris, presented to the Academy a memoir sx professo on the organ of hearing in fishes ; but this was not printed till the