•252 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. sometimes the effect of elasticity, and sometimes even of matter foreign to the body. This leads him to distinguish it into three kinds; the first, where it is immediately muscular, or when antagonist muscles act immediately upon each other; the second, when a muscle acts upon some other matter, and gives it the power of an antagonist, as is the case in all those muscles that enter into the formation of canals or cavities, whose elongation is produced by other muscles, which have no imme- diate connexion with them, hut which force them to an extension by propelling the contents of the canal, instances of which we find in the oesophagus, the intestines, and the bladder; and thirdly, when the elon- gation is owing to elastic substances, which sometimes cooperate with, and sometimes resist the action of muscles; and of other powers, such as gravitation, velocity, &c. “ The second section treats of the application of the muscular and elastic powers, where both indisputably act. The joint application of these two powers we are told is very common, though hitherto it has been but little noticed. Elasticity operates where constant or stationary action is wanted. Muscles are applied where occasional action is re- quired ; and where both effects are wanted both powers cooperate. This is illustrated by various examples, among the rest that of a bivalve, which has a muscle between the two shells, for the purpose of closing them, and an elastic ligament in the joint, which constantly tends to diverge them. “ Another instance, much more to the present purpose, is that of the elastic cartilages and membranes of the trachea and its branches, which maintain an equilibrium by counteracting the tendency the muscles of respiration have to contract that channel. “ In most parts of the body the muscles are so well defined that their existence is evinced by merely viewing their structure and colour. But this is not always the case, and we especially find that in the blood- vessels no traces of muscles are distinguishable by mere inspection. Here then other modes of information are requisite, and our author proposes two. The one is their effect when we see actions that are in every respect muscular, although no muscle be distinguishable by the eye ; and the other the change that takes place after death, when, as Mr. H. has observed, in many cases the power of contraction prepon- derates so as to stiffen all the muscular parts ; and when, if the muscles thus contracted be afterwards stretched or put into what in the living body may be called its relaxed state, they remain thus relaxed without showing the least tendency to any further contraction. These circum- stances mark the difference between muscular and elastic parts, since this latter power continues to act after death much in the same manner as it did during the life of an animal.