CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 265 Relaxation would appear to be a natural consequence of the contrac- tion having answered its end or fulfilled its purpose; or it may be sup- posed to have got rid of its stimulus by this action, the stimulus ceasing to have power when the action has taken place; therefore relaxation naturally occurs till excited to action by another stimulus, of which it is susceptible. Relaxation might be supposed to be a simple cessation of action, but I think it is not; it appears to me to be a power as much depend- ing on life as contraction; for if it was simply a cessation of action, muscles would become relaxed that had contracted by the stimulus of death whenever absolute death took place, which is not the case; on the contrary, it takes probably as much force to overcome this contrac- tion as the same muscles would have done when acting with all the power of the will in the living body. From the violence necessary for the elongation of a muscular fibre after death, it would appear that the position of the component parts of a fibre in any degree of contraction is such as requires force to alter or remove it, and, whatever that position is, it can be in part drawn out as if only in part contracted, or wholly drawn out; and in this operation of drawing out or relaxing a muscular fibre after death, we may observe there is a recoil or reaction in a certain degree when the elongating force is removed, becoming in this respect similar to elasticity. This recoil, however, is not extensive, although it takes place in every degree of relaxation, from the most contracted state to the almost totally re- laxed state. I first observed this recoil in a man who died in convulsions in St. George’s Hospital, from a fever, attended with delirium, which was brought on by a hurt on his arm, which inflamed considerably. A few hours after death his muscles were stilfer than usual, and extremely well marked through the skin, which induced me to make the following experiment on the relaxation of muscles. I laid bare the rectus muscle of the thigh, and separated it from the other muscles without stretch- ing it; I then passed a thread behind it and inclosed the muscle, and cut the thread off where the ends met. Upon bending the knee the muscle was stretched, and I found that the ends of the thread were lapped over each other. Upon measuring the difference it was one eighth of an inch diminished from what it was in the contracted state. I was much surprised by a considerable degree of contraction in the muscles, similar to elasticity, for they evidently contracted a good deal after being stretched. I suspected that this had arisen from some re? mains of life, and therefore waited till the next day, when the same thing happened.