244 CROONIAN LFXTURKS ON MUSCULAR MOTION. first organization formed of muscular fibres alone, in the same manner as in the more simple animals®. This would lead us to consider the effects of muscular contraction in very different views, viz. according to the various effects they are ca- pable of producing in animals of all the various constructions and com- plications. In many of the more simple animals there is little else besides those formations or organizations composed of muscles. A polypus is little more than a muscular bag, and by the contraction of its fibres in dif- ferent parts, and in different directions at different times, the bag is changed into various forms and sizes. A worm seems a little more complicated ; however it is in reality little more than a body formed of different parts, each of which is composed of muscle. A slug, a maggot, as also numberless tribes of sea-animals, come under the same description. But as animals emerge from this simplicity of construction, becoming more and more complicated, having particular parts added, and those parts being composed of something besides muscle, and it also being necessary that these should move, and be so constructed as to direct, circumscribe, increase, or limit the motion, we find the muscular fibres of such animals collected into various portions and forms, in order to give all the different motions to these superadded parts which were taken notice of in the former lecture. Those additional parts are com- posed of more rigid matter than muscle, viz. bones, cartilages, &c., on which the muscles can have no other influence than by giving them mo- tion. There are a number of those bones, cartilages, &c. in many ani- mals, some having more, some fewer; and they are connected in such a way as to form between them intervals fit for motion, called joints: in most parts of the body there is a series of those bones and joints, as the spine, the extremities, &c. Many of these bones are so formed, and so placed and connected with one another, as to form levers (and those of all the various kinds), w'hicli direct and limit the motions, so as to produce a regularity in the whole. As the relative inclinations and positions of those several bones which are immediately connected and joined together are very various, it fol- “ [Hunter here compares the first-formed parts of the vertebrate embryo, derived from the mutually receding layers of the germinal membrane and the folding of those layers, with the simple homogeneous tissue of the hydra or other acrite animal. And, as he applies the term muscular to the contractile tissue of these animals, so he would also regard the homogeneous gelatinous parietes of the newly formed digestive sac of the embryo of the higher organizfed species as being in like manner endowed with con- tractility, and therefore ‘formed of muscular fibres’ or contractile substance ‘alone.’