236 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. position of the joint weakens the effect of the power. This may be de- monstrated in those who turn out their toes, as in a dancing-master, who, before he makes a leap, turns his toes forwards. Few joints in an animal body are confined to one motion, therefore either a number of single muscles must be employed, or the direction of the muscular fibres, of the tendons, and of the insertions, must be so dis- posed that a few muscles may produce the different effects. Joints admitting of motion in only one direction come nearest to a simple joint; the joint of the elbow is perhaps as near this as any in most animals, as also the joint of the lower jaw in the carnivorous animals, and the fingers in most animals^ : the muscles of such joints are tolerably simple in their structure, direction, and insertion. In the joints which admit of various or compound motions, the con- struction of the muscle, the course of its different fibres, the disposition of the tendon in its course and insertion, produce a great variety of effects. This, indeed, was absolutely necessary in a number of animals, more especially those which have extremities, and particularly the human subject, in which there are more motions produced than separate mus- cles to perform them ; nor was it possible, in the present construction of bones. See., to have placed particular muscles so as to perform all the motions, without interfering in the opposite actions. In the human subject the number of muscles exceeds that of any other animal; the motions in the joints, however, are still greater than can be accounted for by the increase in number of muscles, the difference in the construc- tion of the muscles, as well as of the joints, producing this difference, which is so remarkable in the joint of the shoulder, the rotatory motion in the forearm, and the joint of the thigh. Instances of the different motions produced by the shape of muscles, their mode of application, and the disposal of tendons, are seen in the biceps flexor cubiti, latissimus dorsi, &c. passing some way round the bones into which they are inserted, so as to produce two very different motions in the parts ; at one time they may move the part through some space, at another time upon its own axis. The muscles in the lower jaw in graminivorous animals give a remarkable instance of this, there being hardly any of them which do not perform more than one motion. The disposition of tendons will often give a different direction to the body moved from that of the muscle, arising from the tendon bending over some fixed point and taking another direction, which is beautifully illustrated in the trochlearis muscle of the eye, the body of it passing in the same direction as the straight muscle of the eyeball, while from the course of its tendon it counteracts the oblique, which passes in a dif- • [In insects and Crustacea every joint of the extremities, save that which is be- tween the limb and the body, is ginglyinoid, and limited to motion in one plane.]