151 ON ANIMALS PRODUCING HEAT. exposed to a cold so great as to weaken their powers, and disable them from performing the first of these secondary actions, they in some mea- sure cease to be voluntary agents, and remain in a torpid state during that extreme degree of cold which always occurs during some part of the winter in the countries they inhabit; and the food of such animals not being in general produced in the cold season is a reason why this torpidity becomes in some measure necessary®. From the heat of such animals sinking to the freezing point, or even lower, and then becoming stationary, and the animal not being able to support life in a much greater degree of cold for any length of time, we see a reason why they should always endeavour to procure places of abode in the winter where the cold seldom sinks to that point. We find toads burrowing, frogs living under large stones, snails seeking shelter under stones and in holes, and fishes having recourse to deep water; the heat of all those places being generally above the freezing point even in our hardest frosts; which are however sometimes so se- vere as to kill many whose habitations are not well chosen. When the frost is more intense and of longer standing than common, or in countries where the winters are always severe, there is generally snow on the ground, and the water freezes : the advantage arising from these two circumstances is great; the snow serving as a blanket to the earth, and the ice to the water*. whole subject it would appear that a certain degree of heat in the animal is necessary for its various oeconomical operations, among which is digestion; and that necessary heat will be according to the nature of the animal, and, probably, the nature of the operations to be performed. A frog will digest food when its heat is at 60®, but not when at 35® or 40®; and it is very probable that, when the heat of the bear, hedgehog, dormouse, bat, &c. is reduced to 70®, 75®, or 80®, they lose their power of digestion; or rather that the body, in such a degree of cold, has no call upon the stomach. That animals in a certain degree of heat must always have food is further illustrated by the instance of bees. The construction of a bee is very similar to that of a fly, a wasp, &c. A fly and a wasp can allow their heat to diminish, as in the fish, snake, &c. without losing life, but a bee cannot; therefore a bee is obliged to keep up its heat as high as what we call its digestive heat, but not its propagating; for which purpose they pro- vide against such cold as would deprive them even of their digestive heat, if they had not food to preserve it. * Snow and ice are perhaps the worst conductors of heat of any substance yet known. In the first place, they never allow their own heat to rise above the freezing point, so that no heat can pass through ice or snow when at 32®, by which means they become * [The torpidity induced by cold in hybernating animals is unlike that which is similarly induced in non-hybernating animals ; in the former it is an action of preser- vation, in the latter one of destruction. See the paper before quoted, by Dr. Marshall Hall.]