469 A NEW MARINE ANIMAL. external opening of the shell, as there is no other evident mode of dis- charging it. How the tube or shell is formed in stone or coral is not easily ascer- tained. It may be asked whether this animal has the power of boring backwards, as the Teredo navalis probably does, or whether the stone or coral is formed at the same time with the animal, and grows and in- creases with it; and if we consider all the circumstances, this last would appear to be most probable, and agree best with the different phseno- mena; for the coral is lined with a shell, which could not be the case if the animal was continually increasing this hole, both in length and breadth, in proportion to its growth ; but if the coral and the animal in- crease together, it is then similar to the growth of all shells, whether bivalve or univalve. The animal does not appear to have the power of increasing its canal, being only composed of soft parts. This, however, is no argument against its doing it, for every shellfish has the power of removing a part of its shell, so as to adapt the new and the old together, which is not done by any mechanical power, but by absorption^. The tribe of animals which have tentacula consists of an almost in- finite variety, and many of the species have been described. Of that kind, however, which has the double cones, I believe hitherto no account has been given. It is most probably to be found in the seas surrounding the different islands in the West Indies, for I received an animal some years ago from Mr, Oliver, surgeon, at Tenby in Pembrokeshire, which he had procured from a gentleman at St. Vincent’s, which, upon ex- amination, proves to be the same animal with that above described, only that the moveable shell is wanting. Since I began this Postscript I find there is a description of a double- coned Terebella, published by the Rev. Mr. Cordiner, at Banff in Scot- land, which was found upon that coast, in which the cones have their tentacula passing out from the end, and when erected they spread from the cone as from a centre. This proves that the animals with double- coned tentacula also have different species. ® [This is best illustrated in the thinning of the septa between the different whorls of the cones and olives. If the margins of these septa be examined with a pocket lens, after a section of the shell has been made, it will be found that two out of the three layers of which they were originally composed have been removed. The absorption of shell is also illustrated in the removal or the smoothing down of the spines of the Murices; in the flattening of the inner lip of the mouth of the Purpurce; in the widen- ing of the foecal aperture of the Fissurellce, &c. &c. These instances were doubtless well known to Hunter; but the doctrine of the absorption of shell has been lately ad- duced as a new discovery, in a recent volume of the Philosophical Transactions. See Mr. J. E. Gray ‘ On the Power possessed by Mollusca of dissolving Shells.’ Phil. Trans. 1833. p. 796.] ^ *