423 OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. in the bee alone unintelligible, from the obscurity attending some parts of their oeconomy ; for there is hardly any species of animals but what has some part of its oeconomy obscure, and probably this is as much so in this insect as in any other class of animals we are at one season of the year almost daily seeing; yet these parts of the oeconomy may be evident in some other species of the same tribe or genus, and thus be cleared up, from analogy, so that the species assist each other in their demonstration. This is evident in the whole tribe of flying insects, for what is lost or cannot be made out in the one may be demonstrated in another; and we find there are some things in the oeconomy of the bee that cannot be seen or demonstrated in it alone, but which are evident in some other insects ; and while they possess the same parts, and other circumstances are similar, we must conclude the uses of those parts are similar in both; for whenever a circumstance in one animal cannot be found out in that animal, but can in another, then the natural conclusion is that the uses are similar in both. Though the bee may classed in some degree among the domestic ani- mals, yet from there being such a cluster of them, and because th^y are an offensive and irritable animal, their actions are rendered very obscure, and can only be observed by little starts ; often we can only see the ef- fects, which renders the knowledge of their oeconomy still imperfect: they would in many cases seem to evade our wishes ; they often remove out of our sight part of their oeconomy when they can. Thus they often remove their eggs and young. Many quadrupeds do this, as cats, &c., and I have reason to believe that birds can remove their eggs, at least 1 have reason to suspect the sparrow of this. As the bee is an insect, it has most things peculiar to that class of animals : such as are common are not to be taken notice of in the hi- story of this insect, but only its peculiarities which distinguish it from all others, and constitute it to be a bee; and as bees form a large tribe of insects, it is the more singular peculiarities that constitute a distinct spe- cies of this tribe. As most parts of the oeconomy of insects have not been in every respect understood, and although now known in some in- sects yet cannot be observed in the bee, but which accord with many circumstances attending this insect, therefore such must be brought into the present history of the bee to render it more complete. I shall not be minute in the anatomy of this animal, as that would be too tedious and uninteresting. When we talk of the oeconomy of the colony, such as the secreting wax, making combs, collecting farina, honey, feeding the maggots, covering in the chrysalis and the honey, stinging, &c., it is the labouring bees that are meant. In pursuing any subject most things come to light as it were by ac-