46 OF AN EXTRAORDINARY PHEASANT. merous. The males of almost every class of animals are probably dis- posed to fight, being, as I have observed, stronger than the females; and in many of these there are parts destined solely for that purpose, as the spurs in the cock, and the horns in the bull; and on that account the strength of the bull lies principally in his neck; that of the cock in his limbs. In carnivorous animals, whose prey is often of a kind which requires strength to kill, we do not find such a dilference in the form of the male and female, very little being discernible in the dog and bitch, in the he or she cat, or in the cock and hen of the eagle A difference, however, is often perceivable in the whole or in some part of their external covering; the mane of the lion distinguishing him from the lioness; and the males of such animals as neither fight nor feed on flesh, being only distinguishable from the female by some peculiarity in the covering of their bodies, as the cock and hen in many birds. The male of the hu- man species is distinguished from the female both by his general strength and his covering, as also by a difference of voice. In these orders of animals whose sexes are distinct, we may not only observe the genital organs to be subject to mal-conformation, as in any other part of the animal, but that an attempt is sometimes made to unite the two organs in the same animal body, making what may be called an unnatural hermaphrodite. In producing the unnatural herm- aphrodite the same laws seem to operate as in the mal-conformation of other parts of animals; it being observable, that these deviations ob- tain through a whole species precisely in the same manner. I have already given an account of the free-martin, which exhibits a mixture of the two parts of generation in the same animal. It is my intention at present to extend my inquiry on this subject no further than what relates to the resemblance which one sex bears to another in those distinguishing properties which I term secondary; for we find that there is often a change of the natural properties of the female sex into those of the secondary of the male; the female, in such cases, now and then assuming the secondary peculiarities of the male. It is to be observed, that some classes are more liable than others to this change, a singular example of which is to be the subject of the following pages. To bring the foregoing observations into one point of view, I here beg leave to remark, that in animals just born, or very young, there are no peculiarities to distinguish one sex from the other, exclusive of what * [The difference in the size of the two sexes is sufficiently marked in most of the Raptorial birds; but it is the female which has the advantage in this respect.]