4S1 DESCRIPTIONS OF SOME ANIMALS FROM NEW SOUTH WALES. By John Hunter, F.R.S. [The following descriptions are interesting, not less from being the first that appeared of some of the most singular of the quadrupeds which characterize the Fauna of Australia, than from the celebrity of their au- thor, of whose contributions to descriptive zoology they are almost the only examples. They form part of the zoological appendix to a “ Journal of a voyage to New South Wales, 4to, 1790,” published by John White, Esq., Surgeon-General to the settlement, who thus acknow- ledges the assistance which he derived from the gentlemen by whose cooperation he was “ enabled to surmount those difficulties that neces- sarily attended the description of so great a variety of animals, pre- sented for the first time to the observation of the naturalist, and conse- quently in the class of nondescripts. Among those gentlemen he has the honour particularly to reckon the names of Dr. Shaw, Dr. Smith, the possessor of the celebrated Linn8ean Collection ; and John Hunter, Esq., who to a sublime and inventive genius, happily unites a disin- terested and generous zeal for the promotion of natural science.” Dr. Shaw, who superintended the publication of White’s Zoological Appendix, thus introduces the observations contributed by Hunter :— “ The nondescript animals of New South Wales occupied a great deal of Mr. White’s attention, and he preserved several specimens of them in spirits, which arrived in England in a very perfect state. There was no person to whom these could be given with so much pro- priety as Mr. Hunter, he perhaps, being most capable of examining ac- curately their structure, and making out their place in the scale of ani- mals ; and it is to him that we are indebted for the following obser- vations upon them, in which the anatomical structure is purposely avoided, as being little calculated for the generality of readers of a work of this kind.”] XT is much to be wished that those gentlemen who are desirous of obliging their friends, and promoting the study of natural history, by sending home specimens, would endeavour to procure all the infoima- VOL, IV. 2 I I