AN ACCOUNT OF THE GYMNOTUS ELECTRICUS. 419 some degree; but this seenis not to be the case, as I was not able to trace any nerves going from it to join those from the medulla spinalis, which run to the organ. This nerve is as singular an appearance as any in this class of animals; for surely it must appear extraordinary that a nerve should arise from the brain to be lost in common parts while there is a medulla spinalis giving nerves to the same parts. It must still remain one of the inexplicable circumstances of the nervous system The organ is supplied with nerves from the medulla spinalis, ^ [This remarkable nerve, the nervus lateralis, is, in the Gymnotus, a branch of the nervus vagus. It does not exist in the myxine, but in the higher cartilaginous fishes it is largely developed. In the rays it extends from the occiput to the end of the tail, even where this, as in the Raia fasciala, is six times the length of the body; and in the trunk the two nerves exceed the size of the spinal chord. In osseous fishes it is relatively smaller, and in some species, as the cod, is formed by a combination of a branch of the fifth with a filament of the eighth or nervus vagus. Besides the class of fishes (with the exception of the myxine), the lateral nerve is also present in those reptiles which preserve throughout life the external branchim or the branehial apertures, and which reside habitually in water, and move, like fish, by the actions of a caudal fin. In the Menohranchus the nervus lateralis forms a large branch of the nervms vagus, and passes superficially beneath the skin as far back as the middle of the tail, where it joins the filaments of the spinal nerves. In the proteus the nervus vagus sends olf on each side two nervi laterales, one deep-seated, the other superficial. In the menopome the lateral nerve is likewise present, but is much more delicate than in the Perennibranchiata with external gills. In the larva of the Rana paradoxa the lateral nerve may be observed beneath the skin in the longitudinal fis- sure which separates the two large muscular fasciculi of the tail on each side. After the full formation of the anterior extremities this nerve becomes gradually more at- tenuated, and finally disappears with the absorption of the tail. It does not exist in the anourous batraehia. We may thus perceive a relationship of co-existence, to sub- sist between these enigmatieal nerves and branchial respiration. This imperfect kind of respiration is assisted by the vaseularity and aetive powers of excreting mucus in the whole or a part of the external tegument. In the osseous fishes a linear series of mucous follicles is extended along each side of the body, and the lateral nerves, which run parallel with these Unes give numerous branches to the mucous sacs and the neighbouring skin; and in the Perennibranchiata the lateral nerves are exclusively distributed to the skin : henee they might be termed the cutaneous respiratory nerves. They do not supply the muscles along which they pass; these derive their nervous energy from the ordinary spinal nerves. When irritated or galvanized the lateral nerves excite no contractions in the muscles ; they are therefore not analogous to the spinal accessory nerves in the mammalia. In the Gymnotus Mr. Hunter was not able to trace any nerves going from the lateral nerve to join those from the medulla spinalis which sup- I ply the electric organ, but it anastomoses with the spinal nerves which supply the caudal fin. And in the cod, where this anastomosis takes place at each of the nume- rous fins, Mr. Swan conjectures that its function may be to produce sympathy and har- monious cooperation, and to regulate and produce, independently of the will, the 'action of the museles of these parts. (See his accurate and beautiful Illustrations of the Comparative Anatomy of the Nervous System, p. 26, pi. vii.) And this theory equally agrees with the laws of co-existence of the lateral nerves as established by an exteii- I sive induction of particular dissections.] 2 E 2