350 OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE an evident distinction between what is solely connecting membrane, and skin, and is most evident in lean animals ; for in the change from fat to lean the skin does not undergo an alteration equal to what takes place in the adipose membrane, although it may be observed that the skin it- self is diminished in thickness. In fat animals the distinction between skin and cellular membrane is much less, the gradation from the one to the other seeming to be slower; for the cells of both membrane and skin being loaded with fat, the whole has more the appearance of one uniform substance. This uniformity of the adipose membrane and skin is most observable in the whale, seal, hog, and the human species, and is not only visible in the raw, but in the dressed hides; for in dressed skins the external is much more compact in texture than the inner surface, and is in common very tough. In some animals the cutis is extremely thick, and in some parts much more so than in others : where very thick it appears to be intended as a defence against the violence of their own species or other animals. In most quadrupeds it is muscular, contracting by cold, and relaxing by heat. Many other stimulating substances make it contract, but cold is probably that stimulus by which it was intended to be generally af- fected. The skin is extremely elastic in the greatest number of quadrupeds, and in its contracted state may be said to be rather too small for the body; by this elasticity it adapts itself to the changes which are con- stantly taking place in the parts, and it is from the want of it that it becomes too large in some old animals. In all animals it is more ela- stic in some parts than others, especially in those where there is the greatest motion. How far these variations take place in the whale I do not exactly know ; but a loose elastic skin in this tribe w’^ould appear to be improper as an universal covering, considering the progressive mo- tion of the animal, and the medium in which it moves; therefore it ap- pears to be kept always on the stretch, by the adipose membrane being loaded with fat, which does not allow the skin to recede w'hen cut. It is, however, more elastic at the setting on of the eyelids, round the open- ing of the prepuce, the nipples, the setting on of the fins, and under the jaw, to allow of motion in those parts; and here there is more reticular, and less adipose membrane. But in the piked whale there is probably one of the most striking instances of an elastic cuticular contraction ; for though the whole skin of the fore part of the neck and breast of the animal, as far down as the middle of the belly, be extremely elastic yet to render it still more so it is ribbed longitudinally, like a ribbed stocking, which gives an increased lateral elasticity. These ribs are, when contracted, about five-eighths of an inch broad, covered with the common skin of the animal; but in the hollow part of the rib it is of a