268 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. so contracted remains in the same state, and therefore such muscle affords an opportunity of making comparative experiments between it and one in the living body so contracted. How far the same muscles in the dead body, when fully contracted, could be relaxed by the same force as when in the living state, I do not know. It is certain that a muscle in health, and which feels the stimu- lus of death strongly, contracts with considerable force, and requires a considerable power to overcome it; therefore the relaxation of a muscle, voluntarily contracted, must always be an act of the mind, or a cessation of action of the mind upon that muscle. But when a muscle takes on an action without the mind, either in diseases, as the involuntary actions of voluntary muscles, or by the stimulus of death (the immediate cause of action being, I conceive, the same in both), then a relaxation from the mind cannot take place in either, because the mind had nothing to do with the first, and it did not exist in the second. So that those in- voluntary actions of voluntary muscles arise from a stimulus indepen- dent of the will, and in those where it goes off it is because that stimu- lus can cease, and the part being alive a relaxation can ensue; whereas in death a relaxation cannot ensue, because a cessation of the stimulus cannot ensue, that cessation being an act of the living body. To oppose an experiment on muscles in the dead body with one in the living, the muscles should be always in similar states, for a muscle contracted is thicker than natural, and therefore stronger in its transverse direction; and if when in a contracted state the particles of which it is composed are really brought nearer to each other, then it should be doubly strong, viz. in proportion to its increased size and closer approxi- mation of its particles. But as the state of a muscle in contraction is totally different from its natural state, or that state which constitutes the natural structure of a muscle, no comparative experiments can be made which can explain anything. It is evident from observation, that in the construction of a muscular fibre it was not necessary that they should be all of equal density, for we find some fibres denser than others. We find this difference in the different tribes of animals; in some the fibres are extremely soft, while in others they are very firm. 'The firm fibre is found in the more j)erfect animals, called quadrupeds, especially when full-grown; and this difference of density of muscular fibres would appear to be in a pretty regular gradation from the most imperfect to the most perfect, from the muscles of the Medusa to those of the full-grown quadruped. We may also observe that the first rudiments of every animal are extremely soft, and even the rudiments of the more perfect arc similar