XXXlll PREFACE. tures or branchial organs arranged symmetrically at the sides of the body. We have thus traced Hunter in his character as a systematic zoologist through a series of attempts at the arrangement of the animal kingdom, in which, like the indefatigable Adanson in a sister science, considering each organ by itself, he formed, by pursuing its various modifications, a series of groups charac- terized by that organ alone; and doing the same for another organ and another, thus constructed a collection of systems of arrangement, each artificial, because each was founded upon the variations of a single assumed organ. It would, however, be doing injustice to Hunter to adduce the evidences of these attempts only. In that division of the animal kingdom where he had pushed his researches furthest, he aims to establish a more natural classification, by tracing the variations of all the important organs, and keeping in view the different value of each character; and thus he enunciates several general anatomical and physiological truths. The fol- lowing are the characters which he assigns to the different classes of the animals now called Vertebrate. The properties of the First Class, which includes both sea and land animals, are ‘‘ Heart, made up of four cavities, essential. Lungs, divided into small cells, and confined to a proper cavity, the enlargement of which is the cause of respira- tion ; essential. Respiration quick (and I believe this is the only class in which it is so); essential. Give suck; essential. Parts of generation, made up of testes and one penis in the male; the testes sometimes within and sometimes with- out the abdomen, but pass forwards. Clitoris, vagina, uterus or uteri, Fallopian tubes, and ovaria, in the fe- male ; all essential. Kidneys, high up in the abdomen; circumstantial. Organ of hearing, an external canal to the ear, membrana tympani concave externally^, a cochlea; circumstantial. ♦ This appears to have been written before Mr. Hunter had dissected the organ of hearing in the whale. See p. 381, and note *. VOL. IV. C