295 OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING IN FISHES. The organ of hearing in fishes appears to increase in dimensions with the animal, and nearly in the same proportion, which is not the case with the quadruped, &c., the organs being in them nearly as large in the growing foetus as in the adult. Neither is its structure, by any de- gree, so complicated in fishes as in all those orders of animals which may be reckoned superior, such as quadrupeds, birds, and amphibious ani- mals ; but there is a regular gradation from the first of these to fishes. It varies in different genera of fishes; but in all it consists of three curved tubes, which unite one with another; this union forms in some only one canal, as in the cod, salmon, ling, &c., and in others a tolerably large cavity, as in the ray kind. In the jack^ there is an oblong bag, or blind process, which is an addition to these canals, and communi- cates with them at their union. In the cod, &c. this union of the three tubes stands upon an oval cavity; and in the jack there are two; the additional cavities in these fishes appearing to answer the same purpose with the cavity^ observed in the ray or cartilaginous fishes, which is at the union of the three canals. The whole organ is composed of a kind of cartilaginous substance, very hard or firm in some parts, and in some fishes crusted over with a thin bony lamella, to prevent it from collapsing; for as the skull does not form any part of these canals or cavities, they must be composed of a substance capable of keeping its form. Each tube describes more than a semicircle, resembling, in some sort, what we find in most other animals, but differing in the parts being distinct from the skull*. Two of the semicircular canals are similar to one another, may be called a pair, and are placed perpendicularly; the third is not so long, and in some is placed horizontally, uniting as it were the other two at their ends or terminations. In the skate this is somewhat different, the horizontal canal being united only to one of the perpendicular canals. The two semicircular canals, whose position is perpendicular, are united, forming one canal; at their other extremities they have no connexion with each other, but join the horizontal one, near its entrance into the common cavity. Near the union of these canals they are swelled out into round bags " {ampulla:),' and become much larger. In the ray kind all these canals terminate in one cavity, and in the cod in one canal, placed upon the additional cavity or cavities, in which there is a bone or bones. In some there are two bones; and in the * The turtle and the crocodile have a structure somewhat similar to this; and the intention is the same, for their skulls make no part of the organ. [Esoa' Lucius, L.] ^ {Sacculiis veslibuli,']