PREFACE. XU * Vol. HI. p. 24. ' remedial measures, Harvey obscures and forgets the conclusions of his cooler moments of observation, and, as the learned Bar- clay well observes, excited by the discovery which had extended his fame so widely over Europe, and had reflected such lustre on his name and country, he expatiates on the blood as some- thing divine; he has recourse to hyperbole, and describes its properties in the extravagant language of romance. Hunter, on the contrary, carries a series of calm and philo- sophical investigations on the vital properties of the blood to an extent which has never been surpassed ; he examines it un- der every condition, both in the vessels and out of the vessels, during circulation and at rest, in health and in disease. He aims to establish the period in its formation at which it mani- fests the vital properties; and he fully details the changes which it undergoes, and the phaenomena which supervene in the rest of the organism when these properties are lost. Lastly, he tells us how the blood, by means of its vital properties, assists in the restoration of parts when injured or diseased. Hunter subjects the blood to both mechanical and chemical analysis, and endeavours to determine the characteristic pro- perties of its different constituents. It was not known in his time upon which of these constituents the act of coagulation depended. Hunter took advantage of a case in which the red globules subsided, as in some cases they do, more rapidly than usual, and skimming off the superincumbent colourless fluid, found that the fibrine, as it is now termed, immediately coagulated and formed a colourless clot*. A subsequent erro- neous theory, which attributed the act of coagulation to the red globules, has recently been set aside by the application of an ingenious process for artificially separating the fibrine from the blood disks before coagulation takes place, and the opinions of Hunter on this point have been fully established by the expe- riments of Muller. With respect to the serum. Hunter insti- tuted a number of experiments and made many ingenious ob- servations to determine the relative quantity of the coagulable to the uncoagulable part. His deductions as to the amount of nutrient albumen in the blood of animals of different ages, and under different circumstances, as regards exercise or rest, &c. formed, from observing the quantity of gravy or uncoagulable