OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING IN FISHES. 294 As in this age of investigation a hint that such an organ existed would be sufficient to excite a spirit of conjecture or inquiry, I was aware that there would not be w^anting some men who, whether they only imagined the fact might be true, or really found it to be so, would be very ready to assume all the merit of the discovery to themselves. My attention was more strongly called to this point by hearing, in conversation, that some anatomists in France, Germany, and Italy, had discovered the or- gan of hearing in fishes, and intended to publish on the subject. I therefore thought that it would be only justice to myself to deliver to the Royal Society a short account of that organ, a discovery of which I had made more than twenty years before. This account I shall re- print here, without adding anything to what I had before written, re- serving a more complete examination of this subject for a larger work, on the structure of animals, which I one day hope to have it in my power to publish. I do not intend to give a full account of this organ in any one fish, or of the varieties in different fishes, but only of the organ in general; those therefore who may wish to pursue this branch of the animal oeco- nomy will think it deficient perhaps in the descriptive parts. If it was a difficult task to expose this organ in fishes I should perhaps be led to be more full in my description of it, but in fact there is nothing more easy. It may be proper just to observe here, that the class called Sepia has the organ of hearing, though somewhat differently constructed from what it is in fishes The organ of hearing in fishes is placed at the sides of the cavity which contains the brain, but the skull makes no part of it, as it does in the quadruped and the bird, the organ being a distinct and detached part. In some fishes, as in those of the ray kind, the organ is wholly surrounded by the parts composing the cavity of the skull; in otliers it is in part within the skull, or cavity which contains the brain, as in the salmon, cod, &c., the skull projecting laterally, and forming a cavity. ^ [This is the first announcement of the existence of an organ of hearing in the Cc- plialopoda. It differs from that of fishes in the absence of the semicircular canals, and exhibits a simpler stage of structure, consisting of a vestibule, wdth the nerve, fluid, sacculus, and car-stone or otolithe. The low-organized Cyclostomous fishes manifest their character as transitional links between the invertebrate and vertebrate animals in several parts of their stmeture, hut more especially in the organ of hearing. The myxine has a vestibule, with one canal extended from it. The lainjirey shows a further stage of complication, in having two canals continued from the vestibule. All the os- seous fishes have three semicircular canals, as described in the text; and the plagio- stomous cartilaginous fishes, as the sharks and rays, exhibit a higher type of structure, in haring the internal ear inclosed within the parietes of the cranial cavity, and iu the external communication or meatus which some of the species present.]