OF THE WOLF, JACKAL, AND DOG. 321 '* We promised Mr. Brookes a good price for puppies if he succeeded. In about a year a bitch produced nine, and Lord Monthermer bought one; and I had another, which was a bitch. Lord Monthermer’s died of fits in about two years : mine lived longer, and had puppies only once. One I gave to Lord Pembroke, but what became of it I do not remember. It was grand-daughter of the wolf by the dam, and got by a large pointer of mine. It might be considered that Mr. Brookes’s word was not sufficient proof that the puppies were really got by the wolf, but the appearance of the animals, so totally different from all others of the canine species, did not leave a doubt upon our minds ; and I remember Hans Stan- ley, who had adopted Buffon’s opinion, was thoroughly convinced upon seeing mine. The animals had the shape of the wolf refined; the fur long, but almost as fine as that of the black fox. “ I am afraid I have trespassed too much upon your time, and will only beg you will be assured nothing can give me more pleasure than any opportunity of assuring you how truly “ I am. Sir, &c. '‘Jan. 7, 1787. “ Clanbrassil.” Upon the supposition that Mr. Brookes’s bitch was not lined by a dog, but by the wolf, which I think we have no reason to doubt, the species of the wolf is ascertained; but choosing to trace this matter still further, and hearing that Lord Pembroke’s bitch had likewise bred, I was desirous to know the truth of it; and as his lordship was in France I took the liberty of writing to Lord Herbert, and received the following answer; “Sir, Wilton House, Dec. 20, 1786. “ The half-bred wolf-bitch you allude to was given, as I always un- derstood, to Lord Pembroke by Lord Clanbrassil. She might, perhajDs, have been bought at Brookes’s by him. She had four litters, one of ten puppies, by a dog between a mastiff and a bull-dog. One of these was given to Dr. Eyre, at Wells in Somersetshire, and one to Mr. Buckett at Stockbridge. The second litter was of nine puppies, some of which were sent to Ireland, but to whom I know not. This litter v;as by a different dog, but of the same breed as the first. The third litter was of eight puppies, by a large mastiff. Two of these were, I believe, sent to the present Duke of Queensberry. The fourth litter consisted of seven puppies, two of which were sent to M. Cerjat, a gen- tleman who now resides at Lausanne in Switzerland, and is famous for breaking dogs remarkably well. These two puppies, were, however, naturally so wild and unruly, that he found it impossible to break them. VOL. IV. Y