212 C'ROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. that impression, or rather become incapable of acting, which gives the sensation called tired. But this is carried further, for in muscles that are entirely at the command of the will, if they take on involuntary ac- tions they never tire. For instance. Lord L ’s hands are almost perpetually in motion, and he never feels the sensation in them of being tired. When he is asleep his hands, &c. are perfectly at rest; hut when he wakes, in a little time they begin to move. We tire of voluntary actions whether of voluntary parts or of parts that commonly act involuntarily, as the muscles of respiration. Tiring of action feels to the mind to he in the muscles themselves, hut I ima- gine it must he in the mind, although it is referred to the muscles; for we cannot suppose that the mode of action of a muscle directed by the will is different from the mode of action when not directed by the will. This is not a tiring of the will itself, but probably a tiring of the action of the nerves of the will; and as the actions of these nerves is always referred to the part of their destination, the tiring is also referred there. T'he second kind are the involuntary actions, which are lasting, as the parts themselves : these are always fit for action ; and if they are in- active, it does not arise from the want of power in the part to act, but from a cessation of the stimulus, which cessation takes place whenever the action, from peculiar circumstances, is become unnecessary. Such actions are naturally so circumstanced as to be constantly wanted, be- ing for the preservation of the animal, as the motion of the heart. The nerves are only to be considered as conductors canidng impres- sions from every part of the body to the brain, or carrying the command of the will to those muscles whose actions can only be employed about such external objects as can affect the mind ; but those parts whose ac- tions are unknown to the mind appear not to be affected at all by the will. That the nerves are the principal agents bet^veen the mind and the parts would appear from circumstances respecting their comparative size ; for all those parts which convey a strong sensation, or are in- tended to perform extraordinary voluntary actions, have large nerves ; while those parts of animals which neither give intelligence to the mind of their actions, nor are under the influence of the mind, have very small nerves. A stronger instance of this cannot be given than the electric organ of the torpedo, where the power of giving or restraining the shock depends upon the will: the actions are strong and violent, for he can soon exhaust himself by them ; and the nerves which convey the power of the mind exceed, compared with the size of the animal, in bulk the nerves in any organ of any other known animal. It is a part whose actions, its growth excepted, depend entirely upon the will, hav- ing no power of action of its own ; the communication between the will