382 OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE ed by the tendon, above described, being united to the inner surface of the membrana tyrapani. Its base articulates with the incus. The incus is attached by a small process to the tympanum, and is suspended between the malleus and stapes. The process by which it articulates with the stapes is bent towards that bone. The stapes stands on the vestibulum, by a broad oval base. In many of this tribe, the opening from side to side of the stapes is so small as hardly to give the idea of a stirrup®. The muscles which move these bones are two in number, and to- lerably strong. One arises from that projecting part of the tympanum which goes to form the Eustachian tube, and running backwards is in- serted into a small depression on the anterior part of the malleus. The use of this muscle seems to be to tighten the membrana tympani; but in those which have the malleus anchylosed with the tympanum, we can hardly conjecture its use. The other has its origin from the inner surface of the tympanum, and passing backwards is inserted into the stapes by a tendon, in which I found a bone in the large bottle-nose. This muscle gives the stapes a lateral motion. What particular use in hearing may be produced by the action of these muscles, I will not pretend to say; but we must suppose, whatever motion is given to the bones must terminate in the movement of the stapes. The immediate organ of hearing is contained in a round bony pro- cess, and consists of the cochlea and semicircular canals, which some- what resemble the quadruped; but, besides the two spiral turns of the cochlea, there is a third, which makes a ridge within that continued from the foramen rotundum, and follows the turns of the canal. The cochlea is much larger, when compared with the semicircular canals, than in the human species and quadruped. We may reckon two passages into the immediate organ of hearing, the foramen rotundum, and foramen ovale. They are at a greater distance than in the quadruped. The foramen rotundum is placed much more on the outer surface of the bone, and not in the cavity of the bony tympanum; but may be said to communicate with the surrounding cellular part of the tympanum. The foramen rotundum, which is the beginning of one of these turns (the scala cochleae, which is the cen- tral or inner canal), appears to be only one end of a transverse groove, which is afterwards closed in the middle, forming a canal with the two ends open ; so that this foramen appears to have two beginnings; but the other opening is probably only a passage for blood-vessels going to the cochlea. From this foramen begins the inner turn of the cochlea, which is ® [In the Delphinm Leucas, the stapes is imperforate, as in the walrus.]