ON THE GILLAROO-TROUT. 126 OBSERVATIONS ON THE GILLAROO-TROUT, COMMONLY CALLED IN IRELAND THE GIZZARD-TROUT^ One of the digestive organs of the gillaroo-trout being so very re- markable as to have given name to the fish, and to have been considered as its distinguishing characteristic, it is my intention to inquire whether its resemblance to a gizzard be sufficiently strong to render the term of gizzard* trout a proper appellation, and what place its stomach ought to hold among the corresponding organs of other animals. For this purpose it will be necessary to state certain facts connected with the subject, and take a general view of the varieties which occur in the di- gestive organs in different animals. The food of animals may be divided into two kinds, what does, and what does not, require mastication to facilitate digestion. The flesh of animals is of the latter kind; but grain, and many other substances which, serve for aliment, require a previous grinding or trituration, and therefore animals living on this kind of food are furnished with organs for that purpose. Granivorous quadrupeds have the two powers, for mastication and digestion, separate or distinct from one another; the first being executed by teeth, which serve as so many grindstones for reducing their food to smaller parts, before it is conveyed into the sto- mach for digestion; but the form of these teeth varies very considerably in different animals, although the food be the same. This grinding also fits it for deglutition; for neither grain nor herbs could be swallowed without having first been masticated. When so prepared, it is, with regard to the digestive power, rendered similar to animal food; therefore in many of the granivorous the stomach resembles that of the carnivo- rous animals ; and whenever the stomach in the granivorous quadruped departs from this general rule, there is a peculiarity in the operations of digestion. Birds that live upon substances, for the digestion of which trituration is indisjDensably necessary, have the poAvers of mastication and digestion united in one part, the gizzard, which is particularly con- structed for that purpose, but is more uniform in its construction than the teeth, varying only by being stronger or weaker in its powers; therefore the genus of birds exhibits less variety, respecting the organs relating to digestion, than the quadruped. In granivorous birds, there- [Originally published in the Philosophical Transactions, vol. Ixiv. (1774.)]