OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. 113 bread by itself; but by inclosing the bread in meat, so as to deceive the eagle, the bread was swallowed, and digested in the stomach. The excrements of animals we may suppose to be that part of the common food which is indigestible; and as food is either animal or ve- getable, and each different kind adapted to distinct classes of animals, it is natural to believe that the excreraentitious part of each will be dif- ferent ; and where the animal feeds upon both, that the excrement will be of a mixed nature. Although this appears probable, it is only true in a certain degree; for the mode of digestion, and whether the animal has a caecum and colon, with their peculiar form, have all an influence in the changes which the food undergoes. Vegetable food produces more excrement than animal, and this according to the kind or parts of vegetables that are eaten. The woody parts and husks, which are in- digestible, produce the most; the true farinaceous part the least: why there should be any at all from the farinaceous and animal substance, except what has eluded the action of the digestive organs, is not easily accounted for. All faeces have a tendency to putrefaction, but least in those animals which feed on vegetables. Indeed, the excrement from vegetable food alone could hardly ever become putrid if it was not mixed with the mucus of the intestines, and would even then be kept sweet by the ten- dency which undigested vegetables have to take on the vinous and ace- tous fermentation. But the faeces of those which live entirely on animal food in general very soon become putrid; and indeed often before they are voided; but such animals are either without caecum or colon; or if not, what they have is very short; so that the excrement not being long retained, has less time to become putrid. When the faeces stagnate so as to take on either the vinous or putrefactive fermentation, air is let loose, which will be according to the nature of the fermentation; most I probably, from the vegetable it will be flxed, and from the animal, in- I flammable air. ! The faeces of the greatest number of animals are tinged by the bile, I which in some gives them a yellowish green colour; in the bird they ' are generally green, but sometimes white, from being mixed with the I urine. The faeces of the maggot appear to be loaded with bile ; for be- 1 sides being yellow, they are extremely bitter, w'hich is known by eating i the kernel of a nut that has a maggot in it. Some kinds of food, when not wholly digested, give a tinge to the faeces, as grass to the excre- ! ment of cows. j The animals which feed upon vegetables alone commonly have their ! faeces somewhat solid; but the degree will vary according to the state of the vegetable, whether green or dried; and therefore the particular VOL. IV, I