OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE, ETC. 331 OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE AND CECONOMY OF WHALES. BY JOHN HUNTER, ESQ., F.R.S.^ The animals which inhabit the sea are much less known to us than those found upon land; and the cjeconomy of those with which w^e are best acquainted is much less understood; we are, therefore, too often obliged to reason from analogy where information fails, which must probably ever continue to be the case, from our unfitness to pursue our researches in the unfathomable waters. This unfitness does not arise from that part of our oeconomy on which life and its functions depend, for the tribe of animals which is to be the subject of this Paper has, in that respect, the same oeconomy as man, but from a difference in the mechanism by which our progressive mo- tion is produced. The anatomy of the larger marine animals, when they are procured in a proper state, can be as well ascertained as that of any others, dead structure being readily investigated. But even such opportunities too seldom occur, because those animals are only to be found in distant seas, which no one explores in pursuit of natural history; neither can they be brought to us alive from thence, which prevents our receiving their bodies in a state fit for dissection. As they cannot live in air, we are unable to procure them alive. Some of these aquatic animals yielding substances which have become articles of traffic, and in quantity sufficient to render them valuable as objects of profit, are sought after for that purpose; but gain being the primary view, the researches of the Naturalist are only considered as secondary points, if considered at all. At the best, our opportunities of examining such animals do not often occur till the parts are in such a state as to defeat the purposes of accurate inquiry, and even these occasions are so rare as to prevent our being able to supply, by a second dissection, what was deficient in a first. The parts of such animals being formed on so large a scale, is another cause which prevents any great degree of accuracy in their examination, more especially when it is considered how very inconvenient for accurate dissections are barges. “ [Originally published in the Philosophical Transactions, vol. Ixxffi. 1787.]