THE NERVES OF THE ORGAN OF SMELLING. 191 sensation, in whatever part of the nerve the impression is made, always gives the same sensation as if affected at the common seat of the sen- sation of that particular nerve*. The first pair of nerves arriving at the part of its destination as soon as it escapes from the skull, and immediately ramifying, has rendered its distribution more obscure than that of the others, whose course to the part to which they are allotted is visible and to be traced. As the body of the nerve, while within the skull, is pulpy and composed of the brain itself, it easily breaks off at the very division and exit of the small branches; it therefore becomes impossible to trace them, as we usually do other nerv'es; and they have by most physiologists been considered as never forming chords, but going on in their pulpy form to be distri- buted on the membrane of the nose, in a mode somewhat similar to that of the optic nerve, and to what is commonly supposed to take place with respect to the portio molh’s of the seventh pair. Winslow has suggested an idea that the first pair forms chords ; but it is only as an assertion, and not having described them, that alone was not sufficient to alter the former mode of reasoning. Haller, who is to be considered as the latest anatomist and physio- logist, who has published on the subject, on whom we can depend, says, that ** The first pair of nerves makes its way into the nose covered by the pia mater only, very little altered from what it was when within the cavity of the skull*.” This shows that Haller retained the old idea con- cerning these nerves ; but we shall find that they become firm chords immediately upon piercing the dura mater and cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. The first pair, while within the skull, differs in some respects from all other nerves ; firstly, it seems to be made up of a cortical and me- dullary substance, while the others appear to consist of medullary alone; and secondly, it is different, in that it does not seem to be composed of fasciculi, and has but one covering from the pia mater investing the whole nerve, whereas other nerves appear to have a covering round each * I knew a gentleman who had the nerves which go to the glans penis completely destroyed by mortification, almost as high as the union of the penis with the pubes; and at the edge of the old skin, at the root of the penis, where the nerves terminated, was the peculiar sensation of the glans penis; and the sensation of the glans itself was now^ only common sensation; therefore the glans has, probably, different nerves, and those for common sensation may come through the body of the penis to the glans. A Serjeant of marines, who had lost the glans and the greater part of the body of the penis, upon being asked if he ever felt those sensations which are peculiar to the glans, declared, that upon rubbing the end of the stump, it gave him exactly the sensation which friction upon the glans produced, and was followed by an emission of the semen. t Elementa Physiologise, vol. v. p. 151.