4 OF THE SITUATION OF THE TESTIS IN THE FCETUS. below the enmlgent artery, and often from the emulgent itself, espe- cially in the right side of the body, which may happen the rather, be- cause the trunk of the aorta is more distant from the right testis than from the left. Sometimes, but much more rarely, the spermatic artery springs from the phrenic, or from that of the capsula renalis. Besides the artery which rises from the aorta, or emulgent, &c., the testis re- ceives one from the hypogastric artery, which is sometimes as large as the other. It runs upwards from its origin, passing close to the vas deferens in its way to the testis. The superior spermatic artery some- times passes before the lower end of the kidney ; and both these arteries run in a serpentine direction, making j^retty large but gentle turnings. They are situated behind the peritoneum, and both run into the poste- rior edge of the testis, between the two reflected laminae of that mem- brane, much in the same manner as the vessels pass to the intestines between the two reflected laminae of the mesocolon or mesentery. “ The veins of the testis are analogous to its arteries, but commonly change sides with the arteries respecting their origins from the emul- gents. The superior spermatic vein, to begin with its trunk, rises commonly in the following manner: on the right side, from the trunk of the vena cava, a little below the emulgent; and on the left side, from the left emulgent vein. The reason of this difference between the right and left spermatic vein, no doubt, is because the cava is not placed in the middle of the body; so that by the rule of ramification which is observed in most parts of the body, the cava is the nearest large vein of the right side, and the emulgent is the nearest large vein of the left side. But the difference is inconsiderable; and accordingly we some- times find the right spermatic vein coming from the right emulgent vein; and several other varieties are produced, which, so far as I can observe, follow no precise rule. There is likewise a spermatic vein, which rises from the internal iliac, and runs up to the testis with the inferior spermatic artery. Both the spermatic veins run behind the peritoneum with their corresponding arteries, and go into the posterior edge of the testis, where they are lost in small branches. “ The nerves of the testis, like its blood-vessels, come from the nearest source ; that is, from the abdominal plexuses of the intercostal, especially the inferior mesenteric plexus. They run to the testis, accompanying its blood-vessels, and are dispersed with them through its substance. The testis, therefore, with respect to its nerves, may be reckoned an abdominal viscus; and this observation will hold good when apjilied to the full-grown subject, as well as to the foetus; for those branches of the lumbar nerves which are commonly said to be sent to the testis, passing through the tendon of the external oblique muscle, in reality