THE NERVES OF THE ORGAN OF SMELLING. 189 actions immediately depend upon such circumstances. The brain may be considered as having an intelligence with the body; but no such in- tercourse subsists between the different parts of the body and the heart. In the summer of 1754, being much employed in dissecting the nerves passing out of the skull, I was, of course, led to trace many of their connexions with those from the medulla spinalis; and was assisted by Dr. Smith, then pursuing his studies in London*. The better to trace these nerves through the foramina of the skull, I steeped the head in a weakened acid of sea-salt till the bones were rendered soft, and that the parts might be as firm as possible, and at the same time free from any tendency to putrefaction (it being summer), the acid was not diluted with water, but with spirit. When the bones were rendered soft, pur- suing my intention, I dissected the first pair of nerves, and discovered their distribution; and having made a preparation of the parts in which they were found, I immediately had drawings made from them, with a view to have presented the account to the Royal Society; but other pur- suits prevented itf. Engravings were afterwards made from these drawings, and the preparation was repeatedly shown by Dr. Hunter, in his courses of anafomy, who, at the same time, pointed out that altera- tion in the mode of reasoning upon those nerves which would naturally arise from this discovery. In this dissection I found several nerves, principally from the fifth pair, going to and lost upon the membrane of the nose; but suppose that those have nothing to do with the sense of smelling, it being more than probable that what may be called organs of sense have particular nerves, whose mode of action is different from that of nerves producing common sensation, and also different from one * Dr. Smith was afterwards teacher in chemistry and anatomy in the university of Oxford; is now Savilian professor of geometry, and lecturer in physiology. This ac- count of the first pair of nerves, as also of the branches of the fifth, is taken from the original description written by him, and taken from my dissection when I was tracing them. t Dr. Scarpa, professor of anatomy at Pavia, while in London in 1782, acquainted me that he had dissected the ramifications of the olfactory nerves, and that on his re- turn to Italy he meant to publish an account of them. At this time I showed him my drawings and engravings. I have lately been informed that he has published his ac- count, but have not met with it: I have, however, seen one of his engravings, which was executed in London, and is very elegant. It only shows those on the septum narium, whose minuteness is rather carried further than the power of dissection, and the rami- fications are more regular than we find them in Nature®. • [See Scarpa, Anatomicce Disquisitiones de Auditu et Olfactu, fol. 1789, and Ana- tomicartim Annotationum, Liher secundtis De Organo olfactus prcecipuo, deque Nervis nasalibus interioribus e Pari qninto Nervorum cerebri, 4to, 1792.]