474 OBSERVATIONS ON SOME FOSSIL BONES. tity as appears to be the produce of animals, I should suppose it the re- mains of the dung of animals who inhabited the caves, and the contents of the bowels of those they lived upon. This is easily conceived from knowing that there is something similar to it, in a smaller degree, in many caves in this kingdom, which are places of retreat for bats in the winter, and even in the summer, as they only go abroad in the evenings. These caves have their bottoms covered with animal earth, for some feet in depth, in all degrees of decomposition, the lowermost the most pure, and the uppermost but little changed, with all the intermediate degrees; in which caves are formed a vast number of stalactites, which might in- crust the bones of those that die there®. The bones in the caves in Germany are so much the object of the curious that the specimens are dispersed throughout Europe, which prevents a sufficient number coming into the hands of any one person to make him acquainted with the animals to which they belong. From the history and figures given by Esper it appears that there are the bones of several animals; but what is curious, they all appear to have been carnivorous, which we should not have expected. There are teeth, in number, kind, and mode of setting, exactly similar to the white bear, others more like those of the lion; but the representations of parts, however well executed, are hardly to be trusted to for the nicer cha- racters, and much less so when the parts are mutilated^. The bones sent by his Highness the Margrave of Anspach agree with those described and delineated by Esper as belonging to the white bear; how far they are of the same species among themselves I cannot say. The heads differ in shape from each other; they are, upon the whole, much longer for their breadth than in any carnivorous animal I know of: they also differ from the present white bear, which, as far as I have seen, ® [Hunter probably little suspected that there were caves in this kingdom, like those of Germany, abounding with the remains of extinct mammalia. These caves, especially that of Kirkdale in Yorkshire, and the fossils discovered in them, are admirably de- scribed in the ‘ Reliquiae Diluvianae’ of Dr. Buckland; and it is gratifying to find that the conclusion which Hunter adopted, out of the different hypotheses which he suggests to account for the presence of the bears’ bones in the Bayreuth caverns, viz. that these had served as an habitual retreat to the living animals, and had thus become the de- pository of the remains of successive generations, agrees with the theory proposed by Dr. Buckland with reference to the bones of the hyaenas, accumulated at Kii'kdale, the chief argument in support of which is derived from the abundance of earthy or bony dung with which the fossils are associated.] ^ [Remains of an indubitably large feline animal have been found associated with the bears' bones in the Bayreuth and Gaybureuth caverns. The mutilated cranium figured by Leibnitz in his Protogsea, PI. XL, is considered by Soemmering to have be- longed to a lion.]