THE SECRETION IN THE 122 ON A SECRETION IN THE CROP OF BREEDING PIGEONS, FOR THE NOURISHMENT OF THEIR YOUNG. The nourishment of animals admits, perliaps, of as much variety in the mode by which it is to be performed as any circumstance connected with their oeconomy, whether we consider their numerous tribes, the different stages through which every animal passes, or the food adapted to the support of each in their distinct conditions and situations. We are likewise to include in this view that endless variety in the means by which this food is procured, according to the class of the animal and the particular stage of its existence. If the food was the same through every period of the life of an animal; if every individual of a tribe lived on the same kind, and procured it by the same mode, our speculations would then admit of a regular arrangement. But when we see that the food adapted to one stage of an animal’s life is rejected at another, and that animals of one class in some respects resemble those of another, by hardly having any food peculiar to themselves, the subject becomes so complicated that it is not surprising if we are at a loss to arrange the various modes by which animals are nourished. Animal life may not improperly be divided into three states or stages. The first comprehends the production of the animal and its growth in the foetal state; the second commences when it emerges from that state by what is called the birth, yet for a certain time must, either mediately or immediately, depend on the parent for support; the third may be said to take place when the animal is fit and at liberty to act for itself. The first and third stages are perhaps common to all animals ; but there are some classes, as fishes, spiders, &c., which seem to have no second stage, but pass directly from the first to what is the third in other ani- mals. Of those requiring a second stage, the polypus and the vivipa- rous animals continue to derive their nourishment immediately from the parent; while the oviparous are for some time supported by a substance originally formed with them, and reserved for that purpose*. * [The species of polypus to which Mr. Hunter here refers is most probably the fresh- water gemmiparous hydra; but the period during which the young polype is growing at the expense of the parent seems rather to correspond to the first or foetal stage of existence than the second: when, again, the communication with the digestive sac of the parent is obliterated, the young polype derives its nourishment from without by the