OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. 427 or honey ; it is then a soft contented noise. When a single bee is attacked by several others, it seems the most passive animal possible, making no resistance, and even hardly seeming to wish to get away; and in this manner they allow themselves to be killed. They are perhaps the only insect that feeds in the winter, and therefore the only one that lays up ex- ternal store ; and as all animals, whether insects or not, that keep quiet in the winter, without either eating at all, or eating very little in propor- tion to what they do in the summer; grow fat and muscular in the summer (which I term internal store), we see w^hy the common bee need not be fatter at one time than another ; and accordingly we find them nearly of the same fatness the year round. There are accidents befalling hives of bees that are not easily ac- counted for. I had a hive, which in the month of November was be- come quite empty of bees, and upon examination had no honey in it, which was strong in the summer, and had violent attacks made upon it in October by wasps belonging to a nest in the garden, but appeared quiet when that nest was removed. Upon examining this hive, I found only five dead bees, and not a drop of honey in any one cell: there was a good deal of bee bread in different cells scattered up and down the comb, which was become white with mould on its surface. On the other hand, I have had swarms die in the winter in the hives, while there was great plenty of honey in the combs ; what seemed remarkable, they all died with their proboscides elongated, and in those which I opened, I found the stomachs full of honey, and their intestines full also of excre- ment, especially the last part. Of the Heat of Bees. 13ees are perliaps the only insect that produces heat within itselfand ® [It has long been known that other social insects besides the bee maintain, when congregated in their habitations, a higher temperature than that of the external at- mosphere. In an excellent and highly important series of experiments on this subject recently communicated by Mr. Newport to the Royal Society, it is shown that insects in general have the power of generating animal heat; that that power in the solitary insects is greatest in the diurnal species of flying insects, especially such as reside most constantly in the open air. The law that the mature or more perfect animal is “ more capable of generating heat than when it it is younger ” (see p. 135), is well exemplified by Mr. Newport in the class of insects. In the Lepidoptera, the average elevation of the temperature of the body above that of its surrounding medium is in the larvae from 0°-9 to 1° 5, while in the imago I it is from 5° to 10°. Among the Hymenoptera it is from 2° to 4° in the larva, and I in the imago from 4° to 15°, or even 20°. In all these cases the amount of animal i heat developed is in the ratio of the consumption of oxygen and the quantity of car- j bonic acid formed in the change of the arterial into serous blood; or in other words,