324 OF THE WOLF, JACKAL, AND DOG. she seem afraid when strangers came into the room. Unfortunately these experiments were carried no further : one of the puppies being sold to a gentleman, who carried it to the East Indies; and the other three, one of which I was to have had, were killed by a leopard. The same wolf was in heat in December 1786, and was lined several times by a dog. She pupped on the 24th of February 1787, and had six puppies, one of which, a bitch, I had, and kept it till it was in heat; but missed the opportunity of having her lined. That loss, however, was made up by a wolf-bitch belonging to James Symraons, Esq., of Grosvenor-house, Milbank : the history of which is as follows : This female wolf had been in his possession some time, had been lined by a dog, and brought forth several puppies, which I saw in company with Sir Joseph Banks, soon after Mr. Gough’s wolf, the subject of my former paper, had produced her litter; so that these puppies were nearly of the same age wdth mine. Mr. Symmons reared them all; but one only was a female, which more resembled the mother or wolf kind than any of the others. I communicated to Mr. Symmons my wish that we should endeavour to prove the fact of the wolf and dog being of the same species, by having either his female or mine lined by a dog. This he very readily acceded to ; and his bitch received the dog on the 16th, 17th, and 18th of December, 1788 ; and the 18th of February follow- ing she brought forth eight puppies, all of which she reared. If we reckon from the 16th of December, she went &ixty-four days; but if W'e reckon from the 17th, the mean time, then it is sixty-three days, the usual time for a bitch to go with pup. These puppies are the second remove from the wolf and dog, and similar to that given by my Lord Clanbrassil to the Earl of Pembroke, which likewise bred again. (See Philosophical Transactions, vol. Ixxvii. p. 255.) It w^ould have equally proved the same fact if she had been lined either by a wolf, a dog, or one of the males of her own litter*. ® [This assertion, that the fertility of a hybrid with an individual of a pure breed proves the fact of identity of two supposed distinct species equally with the produc- tion of offspring from the connection of hybrid with hybrid, cannot be admitted. To prove the identity of two supposed distinct species, granting that the fertility of the hybrids from the two to be the proof required, it should be shown that such hybrids are fertile inter se, and capable of propagating indefinitely an intermediate variety. Now this is precisely the fact which is wanting in the evidence adduced in the text. All that Hunter proves is that two species very nearly allied to each other will pro- duce a hybrid offspring, and that the hybrid is again productive with an individual of the pure breed; but this only illustrates a general law by which the reversion of the hybrid to the pure breed is provided for ; while, on the other hand, the intermixture of the distinct species is guarded against by the aversion of the individuals composing them to sexual union: an aversion which w e see in the case of Mr. Gough’s female w olf to have been only overcome by force.]