OBSERVATIONS ON SOME FOSSIL BONES. 479 part retains its tenacity, and is transparent, but the superficial part dis- solves into mucus. Those from Dalmatia give similar results when examined in this way. Those from Germany, especially the harder bones and teeth, seem to contain all the animal substance natural to them; they differ, however, among themselves in this respect. The bones of land animals have their calcareous earth united with the phosphoric acid instead of the aerial^, and I believe retain it when fossilized, nearly in proportion to the quantity of animal matter they contain. The mode by which I judge of this is by the quantity of effervescence; when fossil bones are put into the muriatic acid it is not nearly so great as when a shell is put into it, but it is more in some, although not in all, than when a recent bone is treated in this way, and this I think di- minishes in proportion to the quantity of animal substance they retain; as a proof of this, those fossil bones which contain a small portion of animal matter produce in an acid the greatest effervescence when the surface is acted on, and very little when the centre is affected by it; how- ever, this may be accounted for by the parts which have lost their phos- phoric acid, and acquired the aerial, being easiest of solution in the marine acid, and therefore dissolved first, and the aerial acid let loose. In some bones of the whale the effervescence is very great; in the Dalmatia and Gibraltar bones it is less; and in those the subject of the present paper it is very little, since they contain by much the largest proportion of animal substance^. ® [Carbonic.] ^ [In this Paper we may perceive that Hunter appreciated the value of the study of Fossil Remains, and their application to the elucidation of many important subjects. First, with reference to the extension of our ideas respecting the zoology of this planet, we find him comparing the fossils which are the subject of the text, with their recent analogues, and he shows that they differ both from them and among themselves: his observations and comparisons are, it is ti’ue, too general and summary, and it was left to his successors in this field of inquiry to pursue the comparison with the requisite minuteness and precision, and to give names to the distinct but extinct species. Hun- ter next briefly alludes to tbe different situations and climates in the globe, to which nnimals are more or less confined; and this subject, or the geographical distribution of animals, considered in relation to fossil remains, elucidates, amongst other interesting questions, the changes of temperatm'e to which different parts of the earth have been subject at different epochs. Hunter points out more distinctly, and with more detail, the evidence which extraneous fossils afford respecting the alternations of land and sea, of which the earth’s surface has been the theatre; and by his frequent allusion to the “ many thousand years ” which must have elapsed during these periods, seems to have fully appreciated the necessity of an ample allowance of past time in order to ac- count philosophically for the changes in question. Lastly, he treats of the nature and causes of the different states in which the remains of extinct animals are found; and