XXlll PREFACE. ^*\Vhen the veins entering into the heart are small in com- parison to the quantity of blood which is wanted in the ventri- cles, then we have an auricle; but when the veins near to the heart are large, there is no auricle, as in the lobster and gene- rally in insects. ‘‘ In all animals which have an auricle and a ventricle, so far as I know, there is a bag (unattached) in which they are placed, called a pericardium ; but the insect tribe, whether aerial, aqua- tic, or terrestrial, have none, their hearts being attached to the surrounding parts by the cellular membrane or some other mode of attachment. The heart gives to the blood its motion in most animals, and in all it sends the blood to the organs of respiration ; in the flying insect it sends the blood both to those organs and to the body at large, but in fish to those organs only, the body at large in them having no heart. In the amphibia there is an at- tempt towards a heart both for the lungs and body, but not two distinct hearts. In the bird and quadruped there is a distinct heart for each.” And again, “ With respect to its use, it is in the most simple kind of heart to propel the blood through the body immediately from the veins, which blood is to receive its purification in this passage when the lungs are disposed through- out the body as in the flying insect.” The researches of Cuvier led him to conceive that there was a generally diffused, but passive, or non-circulated condition of the blood, coexisting in insects with the distribution of the breathing organs through the whole body. Hunter, on the contrary, while he rightly appreciated that condition of the circulating system in insects which related to their peculiar respiration, viz. that the venous blood was diffused apparently through the cellular membrane, in the interstices of the fat, air- cells, and muscles, and that the veins in insects might be called in some measure the cellular membrane of the parts *; yet he well knew the relations of these diffused receptacles of the ve- nous blood to the dorsal heart, and the circulatory movement which was impressed upon the vital fluid by that organ. It is this remarkable error of Cuvier, with reference to the circu- lation in insects, that has given to the direct observations of * See Physiological Catalogue, ii. p. 31 ; also the note at p. 221, vol. iii. of the present edition.