ON ANIMALS PRODUCING HEAT. 134 in proportion to the perfection of the animal, and the natural heat proper to each species and to each age. This exertion might also per- haps depend in some degree on other circumstances not hitherto ob- served ; for from Experiments II. and III. upon dormice, I find that in the animals which are of a constitution to retain nearly the same heat in all temperatures of the air, it required the greatest cold I could pro- duce to overcome this resisting power; while by Experiments IV. and V. on the toad and snail, whose natural heat is not always the same, but is altered very materially according to the external heat or cold, this powder was exhausted in a degree of cgld not exceeding 10*^ or 15°; and the snail being the most imperfect of the two, its powers of generating heat appeared to be much the weakest. That the imperfect animals will allow of a considerable variation in their temperature of heat and cold, is proved by the following experi- ments. The thermometer being at 45°, the ball was introduced by the mouth into the stomach of a frog, which had been exposed to the same cold. It rose to 49°. I then placed the frog in an atmosphere made warm by heated water, where I allowed it to stay twenty minutes ; and upon introducing the thermometer into the stomach, it raised the quick- silver to 64°. To what degree the more imperfect animals are capable of being rendered hotter and colder at one time than another, I have not yet ascertained^; but the torpidity of these animals in our winter is probably owing to the great change wrought in their temperature by the external heat and cold. The cold in their bodies is to such a de- gree as in a great measure to put a stop, while it lasts, to the vital, functions; while in warmer climates no such effect is produced*^. This variety (in the power of producing heat) not only takes place in animals of different orders, but in some degree in the same animal at different ages, even according to the different age of the parts in the same animal: a young animal requires more warmth than one full- grown ; and although an animal is equally old in all its original parts, yet there are often new ones formed in consequence of diseases; and we find that these new or young parts in animals are not so able to support life as the old, at least for some time: but as animals are of different ^ [The snail {Cyclostomum thermale) which lives in the hot springs of Abano feeds, moves about with great activity, and propagates in water of the temperature of 100“ Fahrenheit. The Entozoa of warm-blooded animals become in a certain degree torpid in cold water, but revive and exhibit lively motions when placed in warm water of 05“ Fahrenheit.] ** [The Reptiles and many of the Invertebrate animals of tropical climates seek their hiding-places and fall into a state of lethargy during the dry season, when the heat is most intense. A quadruped of Madagascar, the tcnrec, which is nearly allied to our hedgehog, becomes lethargic at the dry season, when its insect food is inaccessible.]