350 OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE into that bone. I could not discover whether it had any muscular The bony part of the organ is very hard and brittle, rendering it *even difficult to be cut with a saw, without its chipping into pieces. That part which contains the immediate organ is by much the hardest, and has a very small portion of animal substance in it; for when steep- ed in an acid, what remains is very soft, almost like a jelly, and lami- nated. The bone is not only harder in its substance, but there is on the whole more solid bone than in the corresponding parts of quadru- peds, it being thick and massy. The part containing the tympanum is a thin bone, coiled upon itself, attached by one end to the portion which contains the organ ; and this attachment in some is by close contact only, as in the narwhale ; in others, the bones run into one another, as in the bottle-nose and piked whales. The concave side of the tympanum is turned towards the organ, its two edges being close to it; the outer is irregular, and in many only in contact, as in the porpoise ; while in others the union is by bony continuity, as in the bottle-nose whale, leaving a passage on which the membrana tympani is stretched, and another opening, which is the com- munication with the sinuses. The surface of the bone containing the immediate organ opposite to the mouth of the tympanum is very irregular, having a number of emi- nences and cavities. The cavity of the tympanum is lined with a mem- brane, which also covers the small bones with their muscles, and ap- pears to have a thin cuticle. This membrane renders the bones, mus- cles, tendons, &c. very obscure, which are seen distinctly when that is removed. It appears to be a continuation of the periosteum, and the only uniting substance between the small bones. Besides the general lining, there is a plexus of vessels, which is thin and rather broad, and attached by one edge, the rest being loose in the cavity of the tympanum, somewhat like the plexus choroides in the ventricles of the brain. The cavity W'e may suppose intended to increase sound, probably by the vibration of the bone; and from its particular formation we can easily conceive, that the vibrations are conducted, or reflected, towards the immediate organ, it being in some degree a substitute for the external ear. The external opening being smaller than in any animals of the same size, the membrana tympani is nearly in the same proportion. In the bottle-nose whale, the grampus, and porpoise, it is smooth and concave externally, but of a particular construction on the inner surface; for a tendinous process passes from it towards the malleus, converging as it proceeds from the membrane, and becoming thinner till its insertion