463 OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. sected out that bag which I supposed to be the receptacle for the male semen; and wetting a camel-hair pencil with this matter, covered the ova as soon as they passed out of the vagina. These ova were laid carefully on the clean card, and kept till the ensuing season, when they all hatched at the same time with those naturally impregnated. This proves that this bag is the receptacle for the semen, and gradu- ally decreases as the eggs are laid. Of the Sting of the Bee. I have observed that it is only the queen and the labourers that have stings ; and this provision of a sting is perhaps as curious a circumstance as any attending the bee, and probably is one of the characters of the bee tribe. Tlie apparatus itself is of a very curious construction, fitted for in- flicting a wound, and at the same time conveying a poison into that wound. The apparatus consists of two piercers, conducted in a groove, or director, which appears to be itself the sting. This groove is some- what thick at its base, but terminates in a point; it is articulated to the last scale of the upper side of the abdomen by thirteen thin scales, six on each side, and one behind the rectum. These scales inclose, as it were, the rectum or anus all round; they can hardly be said to be ar- ticulated to each other, only attached by thin membranes, wdiich allow of a variety of motions; three of them, however, are attached more closely to a round and curved process, which comes from the basis of the groove in which the sting lies, as also to the curved arms of the sting, which spread out externally. The two stings may be said to begin by those two curved processes at their union with the scales, and con- verging towards the groove at its base, which they enter, then pass along it to its point. They are serrated on their outer edges, near to the point. These two stings can be thrust out beyond the groove although not far, and they can be drawn wuthin it; and, I believe, can be moved singly. All these parts are moved by muscles, which we may suppose are very strong in them, much stronger than in other animals; and these muscles give motion in almost all directions, but more parti- cularly outwards. It is wonderful how deep they will pierce solid bodies wdth the sting. I have examined the length they have pierced the palm of the hand, w^hich is covered with a thick cuticle : it has often been about the tV of an inch. To perform this by mere force two things are necessary, power of muscles and strength of the sting, neither of which they seem to possess in sufficient degree. I own I do not un-