Xlll PREFACE. * Vol, III. p. 66. serosity which different roasted meats afforded, is highly cha- racteristic of his original and ever active mind. In seeking to determine the respective importance of the different consti- tuents of the blood, by the philosophical and most difficult in- quiry into their respective periods of formation in the deve- lopment of the embryo. Hunter made the interesting discovery that the vessels of the embryo of a red-blooded animal circu- lated in the first instance colourless blood, as in the inverte- brate animals. “ The red globules,” he observes, seem to be formed later in life than the other two constituents, for we see while the chick is in the egg the heart beating, and it then contains a transparent fluid before any red globules are formed, which fluid we may suppose to be the serum'and the lymph I well remember the feelings of surprise with which I listened while at Paris in 1832 to a memoir read before the Academy of Sciences by MM. Delpech and Coste, the object of which was the announcement of the same fact as a novel and important discovery. The statement of the French observers was re- ceived with all the consideration which its importance justly merited, without its being suspected that our great physiologist had half a century before embraced it, with all its legitimate deductions, in the extended circle of his investigations. In the same spirit in which he investigated the nature of the blood he also pursued his researches on the properties of the solids; he endeavours to determine the specific powers and vital phaenomena of the nervous system and of the stomach ; he compares these important parts of the animal body, v/ith reference to the degree of energy with which their functions are manifested ; he considers the influence which they reci- procally exert in maintaining the vitality of the blood, and the relative dependence of the whole organism on the integrity of their vital powers. He also dwells at great length on the sym- pathies resulting from these mutual relations and dependencies. In all his physiological researches we may see that instead of dogmatising on the powers and virtues of an abstract essence, Hunter endeavours to analyse the vital forces peculiar to each