83 OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. tions, as being less striking, not so forcibly aflPecting a superficial in- quirer. It happens, unfortunately, that those who from the nature of their education are best qualified to investigate the intricacies, and improve our knowledge of the animal oeconomy, are compelled to get their living by the practice of a profession which is constant employment. The only educated men who have leisure are those of the Church, some of whom we frequently find commencing philosophers and physiologists, though they have not had that kind of education which would best di- rect their pursuits. Experiments, it is true, may be made by men of this description ; but these must neither be much complicated, nor have any immediate relation to those branches of knowledge with which they have had few opportunities of being acquainted : at best, they wdll sel- dom go further than to explain a single fact. To look through a micro- scope and examine the red globules of blood, to view animalculee, and give a candid account of what they see, are points on which such in- quirers may be allowed to indulge themselves ; but it is presumption in them to affect to reason of a science in which they can have but a very superficial knowledge, or to expect to throw light on subjects that they have not taken the previous steps to understand. It should be remem- bered that nothing in Nature stands alone; but that every art and science has a relation to some other art or science, and that it requires a knowledge of those others, as far as this connexion takes place, to enable us to become perfect in that which engages our particular attention. These strictures are applicable to all those who have made experi- ments to explain digestion. The effect of the mechanical powers being easily understood, those who considered digestion mechanically have in general explained them justly as far as they applied to the gizzard ; but their reasoning went no further, and they supposed these effects to be digestion. Those again who took it up chemically, being little acquainted with chemistry and totally ignorant of the principles of the animal oeco- nomy, have erroneously explained the operations of the animal machine as subject to the laws of chemistry. The first inquirers into digestion, struck only by the extremes of structure, the gizzard, and membranous stomach, paid no regard to the gradations leading from the one to the other; which, if properly ex- amined, would have materially assisted them to explain the functions of the stomach. Vallisneri, considering the power of the gizzard in one view only, imagined it would be as liable to be affected by the mechanical powers necessary for digestion as the grain which was to be digested; there- fore supposed the existence of a solvent. But though Vallisneri is en- G 2