190 THE NERVES OF THE ORGAN OF SMELLING. another, and that the nerves on which the peculiar functions of each of the organs of sense depend, are not supplied from different parts of the brain. The organ of sight has its peculiar nerve; so has that of hear- ing ; and probably that of smelling likewise ; and, on the same principle, we may suppose the organ of taste to have a peculiar nerve. Although these organs of sense may likewise have nerves from different parts of the brain, yet it is most probable such nerves are only for the common sensations of the part, and other purposes answered by nerves. Thus w'e find nerves from different origins going to the parts composing the organ of sight, which are not at all concerned in the immediate act of vision; it is also probable, although not so demonstrable, that the parts composing the ear have nerves belonging to them simply as a part of the body, and not as the organ of a particular sense : and if we carry this analogy to the nose, we shall find a nerve, which we may call the peculiar nerve of that sense; and the other nerves of this part, derived from other origins, only conveying common sensation, and we may sup- pose only intended for the common actions of the part. This mode of reasoning is equally applicable to the organ of taste; and if the opinion of peculiar nerves going to particular organs of sense be well founded, then the reason is evident why the nose, as a part of our body, should have nerves in common with other parts, besides its peculiar nerves; and, as the membrane of the nose is of considerable extent, and has a great deal of common sensation, we may suppose the nerves sent to this part for that purpose will not be few in number. It is upon this prin- ciple the fifth pair of nerves may be supposed to supply the eye and nose in common with other parts and upon the same principle, it is more than probable, that every nerve so affected as to communicate ® [Since the period when Hunter wrote this remarkable paper, in which the principle of different nerves having particular functions in relation to differences of origin and other anatomical conditions is so distinctly enuntiated, the attention of physiologists has been more especially called to the fact of the organs of sense being supplied by nerves from different sources, for the purpose of different endowments, by the experiments of Majendie. He divided the fifth pair of nerves within the cranium, and thus contributed to define more exactly than had before been done the importance of common sensation to the safety of some of the organs of sense, as the eye, and also the share which touch bears in the impressions received by the organs of special sense, as in that of smell. Physiological science does not perhaps afford a more striking example of the infe- riority of mere experimental inquiry to that which is based on extensive anatomical induction, than the singular conclusions at which Majendie arrived after performing the experiment above alluded to. There are few physiologists, however, who do not adopt the conclusions of Hunter, that the organs of sense receive their endowments of ordinary sensation from the fifth pair, which is common to each, in preference to the well-known view originally adopted by Majendie. (See Journal de Phystologie Exper., vol. iv. p. 169. “Le nerf olfactif est-il I’organe de I’odorat?”)]