433 OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. ments to see if there was such a quantity of oil in it as would account for the quantity of wax to be formed, and to learn if it was composed of oil. I held it near the candle ; it burnt, but did not smell like wax, and had the same smell when burning, as farina when it was burnt. I observed that this substance was of ditferent colours on different bees, but always of the same colour on both legs of the same bee^; whereas new-made comb was all of one colour. I observed that it was gathered with more avidity for old hives, where the comb is complete, than for those hives where it is only begun, which we could hardly conceive if it was the materials of wax : also we may observe that at the very be- ginning of a hive, the bees seldom bring in any substance on their legs for two or three days, and after that the farina gatherers begin to in- crease ; for now some cells are formed to hold it as a store, and some eggs are laid, which when hatched will require this substance as food, and which will be ready when the weather is v/et. I have also observed, that when the weather has either been so cold, or so wet, in June, as to hinder a young swarm from going abroad, they have yet in that time formed as much new comb as they did in the same time when the w^ea- ther was such as allowed them to go abroad. I have seen them bring it in about the latter end of March, and have observed in glass hives the bees with the farina on their legs, and have seen them disposing of it, as will be described hereafter. The wax is formed by the bees themselves ; it may be called an ex- ternal secretion of oil, and I have found that it is formed between each scale of the under side of the belly*^. When 1 first observed this sub- ^ [Aristotle, who describes many interesting particulars of the oeconomy of the bee, and knew something of the structure of the interior of the hive, was the first to ob- serve that a bee in each single excursion from the hive always visits the same species of flower, and consequently comes home laden with pollen of the same colour. This has been confirmed by all subsequent observers, and, as we see, did not escape Mr. Hunter. The necessity for this instinct arises out of the operation which the pollen first undergoes ; the bee rakes out the pollen with incredible quickness by means of its first pair of legs, then passes it to the middle pair, which transfer it to the hind legs, by which it is wrought up into little pellets. Now if the pollen were taken indiscriminately from different flowers, the difference in the size and shape of the pollen-grains would probably prevent them cohering together sufficiently to allow of the pellet being formed. Hence it is that in watching the return of bees to the hive some may be seen laden with yellow-coloured pellets, others with orange, pink, white, or greenish-coloured ones. The grains of pollen are not changed by the operation of kneading when detached fi'om the pellet; under a microscope they are seen to possess their original figure.] ^ [Huber first confirmed this statement by actual observation, but the merit of the discovery is entirely Hunter’s. The only approach to it is in the observation by Mor- ley, who says that he has taken bees with six pieces of wax within the plaits of the abdomen, three on each side {Female Monarchy^ 1774,) but without knowing the source of these pieces of wax.] 2 F VOL. IV.