299 OF ABSORPTION BY VEINS. OF ABSORPTION BY VEINS^ [Dr. Hunter introduces the account of his brother’s experiments on this subject as follows.] In both my courses of the winter 1759-60, I went so far as to say, I believed that the red veins did not absorb; and gave my reasons for thinking so ; and in different parts of my lectures I used to treat of the transudation and absorption of fluids in animal bodies in the following manner : “ I have often considered with myself how the interstitial fluid gets into the smaller and greater cavities of our bodies; how the water of an anasarca, for instance, gets into the cellular membrane. The com- mon opinion, I think, is, that there are everywhere exhalant arteries, which open and terminate on the superficies of such cavities, and throw out the watery fluid which they contain. But for my own part, I can- not help believing that it is entirely by transudation through the coats or sides of the vessels. My reasons for thinking so are these : First, so far as I can find, all the arguments of the latest and best anatomists, taken from injecting the arterial system in dead and living bodies, only prove that a thin fluid passes readily from the arteries into the interstices of parts. They do not prove the existence of exhaling branches more than they prove transudation. ** In the second place, the phenomena of injections, so far as I have been able to make observations, agree better with the notion of transu- dation than with that of exhaling arteries. I have had great experience of injections, and I have made experiments with all sorts of fluids in- jected into the arteries and veins of dead bodies. I have always ob- served that subtile and penetrating fluids pass with ease from the arte- ries into the cavity of the intestines, and into the cellular membrane in any part of the body: such fluids are water, gum-water, whites of eggs strained, glue, isinglass dissolved in water or spirits, any fluid oil, melted butter or axunge, &c. But when these fluids were coloured with ver- milion I always observed that none of the vermilion passed out of the arterial system but when there were manifest appearances of extrava- sation and rupture of the vessels : I never observed vermilion pass into the cavity of an intestine from the mesenteric arteries, without seeing . * [Medical Commentaries, Part L, p. 39.]