332 OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE open fields, and such places as are fit to receive animals or parts of such vast bulk. As the opportunities of ascertaining the anatomical structure of large marine animals are generally accidental, I have availed myself as much as possible of all that have occurred ; and, anxious to get more extensive information, engaged a surgeon, at a considerable expense, to make a voyage to Greenland, in one of the ships employed in the whale fishery, and furnished him with such necessaries as I thought might be requisite for examining and preserving the more interesting parts, and with in- structions for making general observations; but the only return I re- ceived for this expense was a piece of whale’s skin, with some small animals sticking upon it. From the opportunities which I have had of examining different animals of this order, I have gained a tolerably ac- curate idea of the anatomical structure of some genera, and such a know- ledge of the structure of particular parts of some others, as to enable me to ascertain the principles of their oeconomy. Those which I have had opportunities of examining were the fol- lowing : Of the Delphinus Phoccena, or Porpoise (PL XLV.), I have had se- veral, both male and female. Of the Grampus I have had two ; one of them, {Delphinus Orca, Linn. Tab. XLIV.), twenty-four feet long, the belly of a white colour, which terminated at once, the sides and back being black; the other about eighteen feet long, the belly white, but less so than in the former, and shaded off into the dark colour of the back. Of the Delphinus Delphis, or Bottle-nose whale (Tab. XLVI.), I had one sent to me by Mr. Jenner, surgeon, at Berkeley. It was about eleven feet long. I have also had one twenty-one feet long, resembling this last in the shape of the head, but of a different genus, having only two teeth in the lower jaw (Tab. XLVII.) ; the belly was white, shaded off into the dark colour of the back. This species is described by Dale in his Antiquities of Harwich. The one which I examined must have been young, for I have a skull of the same kind nearly three times as large, which must have belonged to an animal thirty or forty feet long. Of the Balcena rostrata of Fabricius I had one seventeen feet long (Tab. XLVIIL). The Balana Mysticetus, or large whalebone Whale, the Physeter Ma- crocephalus, or Spermaceti whale, and the Monodon Monoceros, or Nar- whale, have also fallen under my inspection. Some of these I have had opportunities of examining with accuracy, while others I have only