ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE PLACENTA. 62 cidua by Dr. Hunter, was very vascular, its vessels going to and from the uterus, being filled with the different coloured injections. After having considered these appearances, it was not difficult for me to determine the real structure of the placenta and course of the blood in these parts: but the company, prejudiced in favour of former theories, combated my opinion; and it was even disputed whether or not these curling arteries could carry red blood. After having dissected the uterus, with the placenta and membranes, and made the whole into preparations, tending to show the above facts, I returned home in the evening, and communicating what I had discovered to my brother. Dr. Hunter, who at first treated it and me with good humoured raillery ; but on going with me to Dr. MacKenzie’s he was soon convinced of the fact. Some of the parts were given to him, which he afterwards showed at his lectures, and probably they still remain in his collection. Soon after this time Dr. Hunter and I procured several placentae, to discover if, after delivery, the termination of the veins and the curling arteries could be observed : they were discernible almost in every one; and by pushing a pipe into the placenta we could fill not only its whole substance, but also the vessels on that surface which was attached to the uterus, with injection. The facts being now ascertained and universally acknowledged, I consider myself as having a just claim to the discovery of the structure of the placenta, and its communication with the uterus, together with the use arising from such structure and communication, and of having first demonstrated the vascularity of the spongy chorion. It is not necessary at present to enter into the various opinions which have been formed on this subject; because, whatever they were, they could not be just, the structure of the parts not being known; neither shall I endeavour to give a complete description of all the parts imme- diately connected with uterine gestation, but content myself with de- scribing the structure of the placenta, as far as it has any relation to the uterus and child; and with explaining the connexion between the two; leaving the reader to examine what has been said upon this sub- ject by others, especially by Dr. Hunter, in that very accurate and ela- borate work which he has published on the Gravid Uterus, in which he has minutely described and accurately delineated the parts, without mentioning the mode of discovery. The necessary connexion subsisting in all animals between the mo- ther and foetus, for the nourishment of the latter, as far as I know, takes place in two ways. In some it is continued, and subsists through the whole term of gestation; in others the union is soon dissolved; but an