XXIX PREFACE. the other by branches growing, and these falling off, and pro- ducing a distinct animal.” Hunter here rightly regards the fissiparous and gemmiparous modes of generation as modifica- tions of the same reproductive process which is characteristic of that lowest group of animals previously indicated by the mo- lecular condition of the nervous system, and ‘‘where every other principle of the animal is diffused through the whole,” a condi- tion which in the animal kingdom seems essential to the pos- session of the property of fissiparous reproduction, or to a di- vision of the whole body with a continuance of the vital proper- ties in the parts. Hunter seems, however, to have felt how unsatisfactory and artificial was the classification founded on modes of generation, for he adds in the manuscript in which the above sketch is given, “Animals of any particular class have not one way only of propagating their species, excepting the more perfect, or first class according to hearts, for we have the second and even the third class aping the first, and attempting to be viviparous, as vipers, lizards, and some fishes, as the skate.” He might have added examples of ovoviviparous animals, from the molluscous, articulate and radiate classes,—classes which in every other respect are most dissimilar. This idea of an arrangement of the animal kingdom from modifications of the generative function was afterwards carried out by Sir Everard Home*, and applied by him to the definition of the narrower or subordinate groups. But as of all single cha- racters the generative system affords the most arbitrary and unnatural distinctions, and corresponds least with the modifi- cations of the rest of the organization, a classification of animals based upon it is least adapted to afford any of the conveni- ences of even an artificial system. In the Systerna Naturce of Linnaeus the first of the characters by which the six classes of animals are distinguished is derived from modifications of the structure of the heart, as follows : “ Mammaliay Cor biloculare, biauritum ; Avesy Cor biloculare, biauritum; AmpJiibiay Cor uniloculare, uniauritum ; Pisces, Cor uniloculare, uniauritum ; • See his Systema Regni Animalis nunc primum ex ovi modijicationibus pro^ positum, Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, vol. iii. p. 535..