375 AND CECONOMY OF WHALES. mon sensation, where the cuticle is thick and consisting of many layers, I do not know. We may observe that where it is necessary the sense of touch should be accurate the villi are usually thick and long, which probably is necessary, because in most parts of the body, where the more acute sensations of touch are required, such parts are covered by a thick cuticle. Of this the ends of our fingers, toes, and the foot of the hoofed animals, are remarkable examples. Whether this sense is more acute in water, I am not certain; but should imagine it is. Of the Sense of Taste, The tongue, which is the organ of taste, is also endowed with the sense of touch. It is likewise to be considered, in the greatest number of animals, as an instrument for mechanical purposes; but probably less so in this tribe than any other. However, even in these it must have been formed with this view, since merely as an organ of taste it would only have required surface, yet is a projecting body endowed with mo- tion. In some it is better adapted for motion than in others; and I should suppose this to be requisite, on account of the dilFerence in the mode of catching the food and in the act of swallowing. It is most projecting in those with teeth, probably for the better conducting the food, step by step, to the oesophagus; whereas it does not seem so ne- cessary to have such management of the tongue in those which have no teeth, and catch their food by merely opening the mouth and swimming upon it, or by having their prey carried in by the water. In the por- poise and grampus it is firm in texture, composed of muscle and fat, being pointed and serrated on its edges, like that of the hog®. In the spermaceti whale the tongue was almost like a feather-bed’’. In the piked whale it was but gently raised, hardly having any lateral edges, and its tip projecting but little, yet, like every other tongue, composed of muscle and fat. The extent between the two jaw-bones in this whale was very considerable, taking in the whole width of the head or upper jaw, and of course including the whalebone. This extent of surface between jaw and jaw, having but little projection of tongue, is almost flat from side to side, is extremely elastic when contracted, and throv/s the inner membrane into a vast number of very small folds, that run parallel to one another, but which are again thrown into a close serpentine course by the elasticity of the part in a contrary direction. From the tongue being capable of but little motion, there is only a small * [We have found the marginal seiration of the tongue of the hog only in the foetus or very young state.] ^ [It is, however, of much smaller size intliis species than in the whalebone whales.]