•287 FOR THE CROONIAN LECTURE. distinctness of the fibrous appearance, Mr. Hunter was led to consider that the exterior part in all of them was similar, although no appear- ance of fibres could be demonstrated. What I have here explained I was acquainted with at the time I had the honour of giving the Croonian lecture, in which I examined the dif- ferent structures endowed with muscular action, and was desirous that Mr. Hunter would, either of himself or through me, communicate these observations to the Society; but this he declined doing till he had as- certained by experiment whether any muscular effect was really pro- duced ; and the hope of being assisted by Mr. Ramsden made him, from time to time, put off making his experiments. In the course of this season he began his experiments, which were founded upon the analogy that ought to exist between this humour, if muscular, and others of a similar structure, which led him to expect that they would be acted upon by the same stimuli; and having found that a certain degree of heat, applied through the medium of water, will excite muscular action after almost every other stimulus had failed, it was proposed to apply this to the crystalline humour, and ascertain its effects. The crystalline humour taken from animals recently killed must be considered as being still alive. Such humours were to be immersed in water of different temperatures, and placed in such a manner as to form the image of a lucid well-defined object, by a proper apparatus for that purpose, so that any change of the place of that image from the stimu- lating effects of the warm water upon the humour would be readily as- certained. These were the experiments which Mr. Hunter had instituted and begun; but in which he had not made sufficient progress to enable him to draw any conclusions. To Sir Joseph Banks, from Mr. Hunter. ** Sir, When I did myself the honour of giving in my claim to the dis- covery of the cr^’^stalline humour being muscular, and proposed to make it the subject of the Croonian lecture, I did not foresee that anything could prevent me from fulfilling my promise ; but since that time, what with my state of health, which does not allow me to be very active, the hurry of official business on account of the war, and my brother-in-law, Mr. Home, being employed on the medical staff, I have not had the power of repeating my experiments, and drawing out, to my satisfac- tion, the many conclusions which are the result of such a power in this humour.