2G0 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. As this animal was composed of muscles, bones, &c., some allowance is to be made for these parts, which will account in some measure for the dilference in the result between this and the hearts, although in the experiments on the hearts there is a considerable dilference between the two, arising from the reasons above mentioned. It appears, however, upon the whole, that a muscle loses more of its length than it gains in thickness, unless the apparent difference arises from an universal approximation of all its parts. As a muscle loses in its general size by the contraction of the length of its fibres, we cannot suppose that contraction to arise from the intro- duction of additional matter into those fibres; therefore the opinions that a muscular fibre is a hollow tube from end to end, or a chain of cells of various shapes, either rhomboidal or circular, according to the ideas of the authors of such opinions, and these cells being filled with foreign matter, must fall to the ground^; indeed, this idea of a muscular experiments, one cannot fail to be struck with the difference in the period during which the muscular contractions of the dog’s heart continued. But as Hunter killed his dog instantaneously, it was probably by some sudden concussion or injury to the brain, when the action of the heart would be arrested, and the last contraction only would be wit- nessed, notwithstanding the expedition with which it was taken out. In Mr. Mayo's experiment the dog was killed by hanging, and the ventricles of the heart continued al- ternately to contract and dilate for a considerable time. Barzolotti, Prevost and Dumas, who performed similar experiments on smaller portions of flesh, also found no change of level to take place in the surrounding fluid during the contraction of the muscle. Gruithuisen and Ermannh on the contrary, observed, like Hunter, a slight change in the bulk of the muscle during contraction. Ermann introduced into a glass vessel the pos- terior half of an eel, the intestines being removed. A metal wire was inserted into the spinal marrow, and a second into the flesh, and these were directed so as to be brought into communication with the pole of a galvanic battery. The vessel was then filled with water, so that a narrow tube, in which the apparatus ended above, was filled. In completing the chain, and during the contraction of the muscles, the water fell in the tube four or five lines, and again rose to the opening, when the muscle relaxed. If, however, the muscular fibre, which is generally admitted to have increased in den- sity, and, according to the experiments of Sir Anthony Carlisle, in specific gravity, dur- ing contraction, has really diminished in bulk, the difference is so trifling that we can hardly avail ourselves of it in elucidating the nature of muscular contraction.] “ [It is now generally admitted by microscopical observers that the ultimate muscu- lar fibre is solid. The voluntary muscular fibres (‘secondary fibres’ of Prevost and Dumas, ‘ultimate fasciculi’ of Muller,) in the vertebrate classes, and those of insects, arachnidans, crustaceans, and cirripeds, present a microscopical character which distin- guishes them from every other animal tissue: it consists of close-set, parallel, trans- verse, or slightly oblique and sometimes slightly curved stria*. The fibres which pre- sent these stria are divisible into component fibrilla, which have a knotted or beaded structure; this 1 have myself observed in the human voluntary fibre, and in that of the 1 [Gilbert’s Annulen, 40.]