AND CECONOMY OF WHALES. 381 fibres which could affect the action of the malleus. In the piked whale, the termination of the external opening, instead of being smooth and concave, is projecting, and returns back into the meatus for above an inch in length^, is firm in texture, with thick coats, is hollow on its inside, and its mouth communicating with the tympanum; one side being fixed to the malleus, similar to the tendinous process which goes from the inside of the membrana tympani in the others*^. A little w’ay within the membrana tympani, are placed the small bones, which are three in number, as in the quadruped, malleus, incus, and stapes; but in the bottle-nose whale there is a fourth, placed on the tendon of the stapedius muscle. These bones are as it were sus- pended between the bone of the tympanum and that of the immediate organ. The malleus has two attachments, besides that with the incus; one close to the bone of the tympanum, which, in the porpoise, is only by contact, but iu others by a bony union ; the other attachment is form- * [As might be expected, the same structure exists in the whalebone whale {Ba- Icena Mysticetus, Linn.), where, according to Home, the membrana tympani, “ instead of being concave, as in other animals, towards the meatus externus, is convex and projects nearly an inch into that tube,” Phil. Trans. 1812, p. 84. In this respect, the whalebone whales resemble the sloths, the turtle, and crocodile, and in fact the whole series of air-breathing oviparous vertebrata, which have the ear-drum convex exter- nally. In the dolphins and porpoises, however, as also in the narwhale, the mem- brana tympani is concave externally, as in other Mammaha.] [This connexion between the membrana tympani and the malleus is denied by Sir Everard Home, who wrote a paper and gave two plates in support of his opinion. After quoting Mr. Hunter’s description, he says, “ the fact is, that there is no con- nection whatever between the membrana tympani and the malleus;” and adds, that “this circumstance forms the great peculiarity in the organ of hearing in. this species of whale {Balcena Mysticetus, Linn.).” So singular an anomaly as the absence of any communication between the membrana tympani and the ossicula auditus, would, in- dependently of our interest in the character of Hunter as an accurate observer, have induced us to spare no pains to test the conflicting statements with the facts them- selves. It fortunately happens that the preparations figured by Home are preserved (No. 1598 a. Physiological Series, Hunterian Museum); and after a careful examina- tion of them, we find the following to be the true structure of the parts in question. The membrane marked c in Home’s figure (Phil. Trans. 1812, pi. II.) is continuous at d 'with e, the convex projection of the membrana tympani; whereas, the edge of the shadow is so strong in the figure as to cause it to appear as if c and e were separate membranes, as Home describes them to be: they are, however, parts of the same membrana tympani, the attachment of which is extended inwards beyond the circum- ference of the termination of the bony meatus auditorius. The triangular ligament proceeding from the handle of the malleus, and which is common to all the Cetacea, is attached not only to the plane portion of the ear-drum, but to the whole of one side of the convex portion wliich projects into the meatus, and is affected by every motion of that portion.] [The malleus is anchylosed to the parietes of the tympanum in the dugong.]