OF THE ELECTRIC PROPERTY OF THE TORPEDO. 401 balls. In short, the effect of the torpedo appears to arise from a com- pressed elastic fluid, restoring itself to its equilibrium in the same way and by the same mediums as the elastic fluid compressed in charged glass. The skin of the animal, bad conductor as it is, seems to be a better conductor of his electricity than the thinnest plate of elastic air. Notwithstanding the weak spring of the torpedinal electricity, I was able, in the public exhibitions of my experiments at La Rochelle, to convey it through a circuit, formed from one surface of the animal to the other, by two long brass wires and four persons, which number at times was increased even to eight. The several persons were made to communicate with each other, and the two outermost with the wires, by means of water contained in basins, properly disposed between them for the purpose, each person dipping his hands in the nearest basins, connectively with his neighbour on either side The effect produced by the torpedo when in air appeared, on many repeated experiments, to be about four times as strong as when in water.” A clear and succinct narrative of what passed at one of the public exhibitions alluded to in the last letter appeared in the French Gazette of the 30th October, 1772. As it came from a very respectable quarter, not less so from the private character of the gentleman than from the public offices he held, I must desire leave of the Society to avail myself of such a testimony to the facts I have advanced by giving a transla- tion of that narrative. Extract of a Letter from the Sieur Seignette, Mayor of La Rochelle, and Second Perpetual Secretary of the Academy of that City, to the pub- . Usher of the French Gazette. ** In the Gazette of the 14th August, you mentioned the discovery made by Mr. Walsh, member of the parliament of England, and of the Royal Society of London. The experiment of which I am going to give you an account, was made in the presence of the Academy of this city. A live torpedo was placed on a table. Round another table stood five persons insulated. Two brass wires, each thirteen feet long, were suspended to the ceiling by silken strings. One of these wires rested by one end on the wet napkin on which the fish lay; the other end was immersed in a basin full of water placed on the second table, on which stood four other basins likewise full of water. The first person i put *a finger of one hand in the basin in which the wire was immersed, ! and a linger of the other hand in the second basin. The second per- I son put a finger of one hand in this last basin, and a finger of the other 2 D VOL. IV.