CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 263 stimulus of necessity can, and even that with difficulty. For instance, if we attempt to breathe obnoxious air, or if anything touches the glot- tis, it immediately shuts, and it is out of the power of the will to relax it; but the stimulus of the necessity of breathing brings it to again. A muscle that has but one determined use, or rather a muscle that ha but one point of origin and one point of insertion, always acts wholly when put into action, so as to bring about its effect on the part of in- sertion ; I believe never one part of the muscle only, or only a few of its fibres, but the w^hole. This is not the case with muscles whose origin is broad and its insertion narrow, whose insertion is broad and its origin broad, or whose origin is narrow and insertion broad. But in spasm in a muscle a very few fibres may be seen to act; in short, any number may act, as it is not motion of the part that is the intent of the action. llelaxaiion. Muscular fibres have a greater power of contraction than what is barely sufficient for the extent of the motion of the parts upon which they are designed to act. This is illustrated in the shell-fish called bi- valve, for the muscle in that fish brings the two shells together; but if one of the shells be broken, so as to allow of a nearer approximation of the two insertions of the muscle, we find that they are brought nearer. It is also evident where the tendo Achillis or patella is broken, for when that happens the fibres are allowed to contract to the full extent of their original contraction, and the parts heal in that position: in such cases the muscle is become shorter the whole length of its natural contraction, and the tendon is become so much longer ; and in this case, if the muscle was not possessed of a greater power of contraction than was before made use of, or did not acquire a greater power, no motion could now take place, whereas we find the ultimate quantity of motion produced. If the power of contraction was limited to the quantity produced in a straight muscle, the same kind of fibres, when forming sphincter muscles, could not answer the intended purposes, as a greater power of contraction is required. That the same length of fibre is not absolutely necessary to produce in all cases the same effect, is strongly evinced, by the fibres of the gastrocnemius muscle in the African negro, being shorter than in the European, yet producing exactly the same quantity of motion in the joints which they move. This takes place universally in the Africans, and now and then is met with in men of other nations.