438 OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. not so well made ; that their partitions are thicker, and more of a yel- low colour: this arises, I imagine, from the wax being less pure, having more alloy in it; and therefore, not being so strong, more of it is re- quired. The bees would appear to reserve many of their cells for ho- ney, and those are mostly at the upper part. In old hives, of several years’ standing, I have found the upper part of the comb free from the consequences of having bred, such as the silk lining, and the excre- ment of the maggots at the bottom ; while the lower part, for probably more than one half of the plane of cells, showed strong marks of having contained many broods of young bees. In such the lining of silk is thick at the sides, composed of many laminae; and in many, the bottom is half filled up with excrement; and I observed at such parts, the comb was thickest at its mouth, which inclines me to think, that when a cell becomes shallow, by the bottom being in some degree filled up, the bees then add to its mouth. Such also they seem to reserve prin-^ cipally for the bee-bread; so that to lay up a greater store of honey is an object to them. Of the Laying of Eggs. As soon as a few combs are formed, the female bee begins laying of eggs. As far as I have been able to observe, the queen is the only bee that propagates, although it is asserted that the labourers do. Her first eggs in the season are those which produce labourers ; then the males, and probably the queen; this is the progress in the wasp, hornet, hum- ble bee, &c. However, it is asserted by Riem, that when a hive is de- prived of a queen, labourers lay eggs; also, that at this time, some ho- ney and farina are brought in as store for a wet day. The eggs are laid at the bottom of the cell, and we find them there before the cells are half completed, so that propagation begins early and goes on along with the formation of the other cells. The egg is attached at one end to the bottom of the cell, sometimes standing perpendicularly, often obliquely; it has a glutinous or slimy covering, which makes it stick to anything it touches. It would appear that there was a period or periods for laying eggs; for I have observed in a new swarm that the great business of laying eggs did not last above a fortnight; although the hive was not half filled with comb, it began to slacken. Probably that end of the egg which is first protruded is that which sticks to the bottom of the cell; and probably the tail of the maggot is formed at that end: when they move the egg, how they make it stick again, I do not know. I have just observed, that they often move the egg out of