60 ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE PLACENTA. ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE PLACENTA. The connexion between the mother and foetus in the human subject, has in every age, in which science has been cultivated, called forth the attention of the anatomist, the physiologist, and even the philosopher; but both that connexion, and the structure of the parts which form the connexion, were unknown till about the year 1754. The subject is cer- tainly most interesting, and the discovery important; and it is my in- tention, in the following pages, to give such an account of it as 1 hope may be acceptable to the public*; while, at the same time, I establish my own claim to the discovery. But that I may not seem to arrogate to myself more merit than 1 am entitled to, let me, in justice to another person, relate what follows. The late indefatigable Dr. MacKenzie, about the month of May, 1754, when assistant to Dr. Smellie, having procured the body of a pregnant woman, who died undelivered at the full term, had injected both the veins and arteries with particular success, the veins being filled with yellow, the arteries with redf. Having opened the abdomen, and exposed the uterus, he made an in- cision into the fore part, quite through its substance, and came to what seemed to be an irregular mass of injected matter. The appearance being new he proceeded no further, and greatly obliged me, by desiring my attendance to examine parts, in which the appearances were so un- common. The examination was made in his presence, and in the pre- sence of several other gentlemen, whose names I have now forgotten; but I have reason to believe that some are settled in this country, who I hope will have an opportunity of perusing this publication]:. * This paper was read at the Royal Society, but as the facts had before that time been given to the public, it was not published in the Philosophical Transactions. f Dr. MacKenzie being then an assistant to the late Dr. Smellie, the procuring and dissecting this woman without Dr. Smellie’s knowledge was the cause of a separation between them, for the leading steps to such a discovery could not be kept a secret. The winter following Dr. MacKenzie began to teach midwifery in the Borough of South- wark. f If I should be so fortunate as to have this publication fall into any of those gen- tlemen’s hands, I hope they will favour me with their opinion of my state of the facts, which led to the discovery. . It may be suspected by some (but none I hope to whom I have the pleasure of being known,) that I am not doing Dr. MacKenzie justice, and am perhaps suppressing some part of that share of the discovery to which he is entitled. This idea (if ever it should