CnOONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 247 cular contraction; therefore in them it is the second which comes pro- perly under consideration, as mechanical, since it produces visible me- chanical effects upon parts formed for motion, and evidently calculated to vary the velocity from that of the first. The application of muscles in an animal body is either to produce a quantity of motion equal to the quantity of contraction of the muscle; or, by the application of levers, to give a greater motion than could be produced by the simple contraction of the muscle. This in general is not the case in machines composed by art; for in art the principal rea- son for the introduction of mechanics is to acquire power in the effect, which obliges us to increase the velocity in the moving cause, as in levers and pulleys. However, this is not universal in machines ; for some have it reversed, as the catapulta, the lock of a gun, and also in many machines where strength is not the object but velocity in some particular move- ments, as in watches, jacks, &c. Whether the effect of a given quantity of contraction in a muscle be or be not equal to that quantity depends upon the construction and dis- position of the parts to be moved, or the form which the whole muscle is thrown into. Thus the effects of some muscles upon the parts are just equal to the contraction of the muscular fibres; such are those which simply draw parts to them, not varying the position of the part moved from the right line, as many of the muscles of the larynx, the trapezius, rhomboideus, and all of the panniculus carnosus kind, as the muscles of the face, platysma myoides, and the muscles of the skin of animals. Another class, whose effects are always known, or are the same in all cases, are those muscles which produce their effects from the shape which the muscle is thrown into, for instance, a curve. Curved muscles are of two kinds, viz. those which are fixed at their ends, as the abdo- minal muscles, pharynx, &c., and those which are circular, as the sphinc- ters, heart, and the whole vascular system. These muscles always re-^ duce the circumference and, of course, the diameter of the circle, which they themselves compose, in proportion to their quantity of contraction ; but the ultimate effect here is not in proportion to the quantity of con- traction, but decreases as the squares of the diameters of such vessels. But most parts of the body are so mechanically formed, acting as levers, and the muscles so advantageously inserted, as to produce a much greater degree of velocity in the motion of the part than is equal to the contrac- tion of the muscle. But those mechanical applications are so various that there are no two muscles which act with the same advantages, ex- cepting those that are in pairs. On this application of muscles to levers depends the distinction between the absolute and apparent force of