CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 239 tensors of the intermediate joints are obliged to interfere and keep them from bending. Every joint has a certain quantity of motion, and the quantity of con- traction of the muscles of that joint are adapted to that motion; we have therefore in joints of considerable motion long muscles, as those of the knee, and in joints with little motion \ye have short muscles, as those of the spine. Of the Strength of the Body as compounded. The strength of a part and the strength of the whole body is in pro- portion to the natural resistance, which arises either from some body to be propelled, as the blood, urine, &c., or from the position of our bodies to overcome gravitation; for every muscle in the body is just able to move the part to which it is fixed with tolerable ease in the most difficult position, and any additional weight in that position will fatigue it, it being unable to support it any time. From this it would appear that the different parts of our bodies are not much stronger than can support their own motions with ease; and whatever motion the body can perform with ease, by exerting itself it can give it a considerable velocity, or support a greater weight for a continuance. If our muscles are capable of moving our bodies in every position, they must be able to move much more in some positions than others. If I can raise my body from the ground perpendicularly up when my feet are fixed upon the ground and my knees bent at right angles, I can support or raise a much greater weight when upright or nearly so. If a horse raise himself from the ground when his legs are bent, he can support a greater weight when erect or standing; and if loaded with no more than he can stand under upon three feet, he can walk with it. A leg also that can raise the quarter of a horse from the ground can move the parts of which it is constructed only with great velocity. If you load a man with no more than he can stand under upon one foot, he can walk with the load. A man can raise his whole body upon his hands, and therefore can move his hands with great velocity when they are put into motion without the body. The Effects arising from the different Constructions of Muscles, The straight narrow muscle, whose fibres run parallel, generally em- ploys all its fibres, so that when it acts, the whole muscle is in action at the same time. The broad and radiated muscles do not always employ the whole of