OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. 120 At this time I was employed in making experiments upon digestion in dilferent animals, all of which were killed at different times, after having been fed with various kinds of food: many of these were not opened immediately after death, and in some of them I found the above- described appearances in the stomach. The better to pursue my inquiry on the subject of digestion, I procured the stomachs of a vast variety of fishes, whose deaths are always violent, and who may be said to die in perfect health, with their stomachs usually full. In them we can observe the progress of digestion most distinctly, the shape of their stomachs being very favourable for that purpose. They likewise swallow their food whole, that is, without mastication, and swallow fish that are much larger than the digesting part of the stomach can contain; there- fore in many instances the part swallowed which was lodged in the digesting part of the stomach was found more or less dissolved, while that which remained in the oesophagus was perfectly sound; and in many of these I saw the digesting part of the stomach itself reduced to ihe same dissolved state as the digested part of the food. Being employed upon this subject, and therefore enabled to account more readily for appearances which had any connexion with it, and ob- serving that the half-dissolved parts of the stomach were similar to the half-digested food, it immediately struck me that it was the process of digestion going on after death; and that the stomach, being dead, was no longer capable of resisting the powers of that menstruum which it- self had formed for the digestion of food“. These appearances of the stomach after death throw considerable light on the principles of digestion, and show that it neither depends on eftect of disease, was in a man who had his skull fractured by one blow of a poker. Just before this accident he had been in perfect health, and had taken a hearty supper of cold meat, cheese, bread, and ale. Upon opening the abdomen, I found that the stomach, though it still contained a good deal, was dissolved at its great end, and a considerable part of its contents lay loose in the general cavity of the belly; a circum- stance which puzzled me very much. The second instance was in a man who died at St. George’s Hospital, a few hours after receiving a blow on his head which fractured his skull. From these two cases, among various conjectures about so strange an appear- aJice, I began to susi)ect it might be peculiar to cases of fractured skull, and there- fore, whenever I had an opportunity, I examined the stomach of every person who died from that accident; but I found many of them which had not this appearance. 1 afterwards met with the same appearance in a man who had been hanged. " [Then follows in the original paper: “ With this idea, I set about making experiments to produce these appearances at pleasure, which would have taught us how long the animal ought to live after feeding, and how long jt should remain after death before it is opened; and above all, to find out the method of proilucing the greatest digestive power in the living stomach: but this pursuit led me into an unbounded field.”—Phil. Trans. (1772), p. 453.]