348 OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE from its continuing for years to crystallize, one would be induced to think that perhaps the oil itself is converted into spermaceti. It is most likely that if we could discover the exact form of the dif- ferent crystals of oils, we should thence be able to ascertain both the different sorts of vegetable oils, expressed and essential, and the differ- ent sorts of animal oils, much better than by any other means; in the same manner as we know salts by the forms into which they shoot. The spermaceti does not become rancid or putrid nearly so soon as the other animal oils, which is most probably owing to the spermaceti being for the most part in a solid state; and I should suppose that few oils would become so soon rancid as they do if they were always pre- served in that degree of cold which rendered them solid; neither does this oil become so soon putrid as the flesh of the animal, and therefore, although the oil in the cells appeared to be putrid before boiling, it was sweet when deprived of the cellular substance. The spermaceti is ra- ther heavier than the other oil. In this animal then we find two sorts of oil, besides the deeper-seated fat, common to all of this class, one of which crystallizes with a much less degree of cold than the other, and of course requires a greater de- gree of heat to melt it, and forms, perhaps, the largest crystals of any expressed oil we know : yet the fluid oil of this animal will crystallize in an extreme hard frost much sooner than most essential oils, though not so soon as the expressed oils of vegetables. Camphire, however, is an exception, since it crystallizes in our warmest weather, and when melted with expressed oil of vegetables, if the oil is too much saturated for that particular degree of cold, crystallizes exactly like spermaceti. In the ox the tallow, and what is called neat’s-foot oil, crystallize in different degrees of cold. The tallow congeals with rather less cold than the spermaceti, but the other oil is similar to what is called the train oil in the whale. I have endeavoured to discover the form of the crystals of different sorts of oil, but could never determine exactly what that was, because I could never find any of the crysteds single, and by being always united the natural form was not distinct. It is the adipose covering from all of the whale kind that is brought home in square pieces, called flitches, and which, by being boiled, yields the oil on expression, leaving the cellular membrane. When these flitches have become in some degree putrid, there issue two sorts of oil; the first is pure, the last seems incorporated with part of the animal substance, which has become easy of solution from its putridity, forming a kind of butter. It is unctuous to the touch, ropy, coagulates, or be- comes harder by cold, swims upon water, not being soluble in it; and