OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE 390 to form a kind of sulcus. The skin and parts on each side of this sulcus are of a looser texture than on the common surface of the animal, not being loaded with oil, and allowing of such motion of one part on another as admits of dilatation and contraction. The vagina passes upwards and backwards towards the loins, so that its direction is dia- gonal respecting the cavity of the abdomen, and then divides into the two horns, one on each side of the loins; these afterwards terminating in the fallojnan tubes, to which the ovaria are attached. From each ovarium there is a small fold of the peritonaeum, which passes up to- wards the kidney of the same side, as in most quadrupeds. The inside of the vagina is smooth for about one half of its length, and then begins to form something similar to valves projecting towards the mouth of the vagina, each like an os tincse; these are about six, seven, eight, or nine in number. Where they begin to form, they hardly go quite round, but the last are complete circles. At this part too the vagina becomes smaller, and gradually decreases in width to its termination®. From the last projecting part, the passage is continued up to the opening of the two horns, and the inner surface of this last part is thrown into longitudinal rugae, which are continued into the horns. Whether this last part is to be reckoned common uterus or vagina, and that the last valvular part is to be considered as os tincse, I do not know; but from its having the longitudinal rugse, I am inclined to think it is uterus, this structure appearing to be intended for distinc- tion*^. The horns are an equal division of this part *, they make a gentle turn outwards, and are of considerable length. Their inner surface is thrown into longitudinal rugse, without any small protuberances for the coty- ledons to form upon, as in those of ruminating animals*^; and where they terminate, the fallopian tubes begin. ® [A muscle arises, on each side, from the whole length of the ischial bone, and passing inwards is inserted into the external surface of the vagina, and into the crura of the clitoris. This body is situated like a projecting ridge, witliout any prq)utial fold, between the thin labiae. On each side of the clitoris, within the mouth of the vagina, are the orifices of sinuses, analogous to the canals of Malpighi in Ruminantia.] ^ [From the os tincre, which Hunter calls the last projecting part of the vagina, to the beginning of the division of the uterus, in the porpoise, is about two inches. The uterus is lined with a very smooth mucous membrane; a thin laver of cellular sub- stance separates this from the muscular tunic, in which the circular fibres may be clearly discerned. The external tunic is derived from the peritoneum which forms the broad ligaments.] [The foetus has neither placenta nor colytedons, but, as in the hog and cainci, the general vascularity of the chorion is subservient to its nutrition and respiration. The allantois is coextensive in its development with the chorion, and both extend into the horns of the uterus.]