OF PERSONS APPARENTLY DROWNED. 171 in a cup under the receiver of the bellows. I would advise the air and volatile alkali to be thrown in by the nose rather than the mouth, as the last mode of administering, by producing sickness, is more likely to de- press than rouse the living princijile. It will be still better if it can be done by both nostrils, as applications of this kind to the olfactory nerves certainly rouse the living principle and put the muscles of respiration into action, and therefore are the more likely to excite the action of the heart: besides, that affections of these nerves are known to act more immediately on the living principle; since while a strong smell of very sweet flowers, as orange flowers, will in many cause fainting, the ap- plication of vinegar will as immediately restore the powers to action again. All perfumes in which there is some acid rather rouse than de- press, as the sweet-brier, essence of lemon, &c. If, during the operation of the'bellows, the larynx be gently pressed against the oesophagus and spine, it will prevent the stomach and intestines being too much dis- tended by the air, and leave room for the application of more effectual stimuli to those parts. This pressure, however, must be conducted with judgment and caution, so that the trachea and the aperture into the larynx may both be left perfectly free. While this business is going on an assistant should prepare bedclothes, carefully brought to the proper degree of heat. I consider heat as congenial with the living principle; increasing the necessity of action, it increases action; cold, on the other hand, lessens the necessity, and of course the action is di- minished : to a due proportion of heat, therefore, the living principle owes its vigour; and, from observations and experiments, it appears to be a law of Nature in animal bodies, that the degree of external heat should bear a proportion to the quantity of life; when it is weakened, this proportion requires great accuracy in the adjustment, while greater powers of life allow a greater latitude*. I was led to make these observations by attending to persons who are frost-bitten, the effect of cold in such cases being that of lessening the living principle. The powers of action remain as perfect as ever, but weakened, and heat is the only thing wanting to put these powers into action : yet that heat must at first be gradually applied, and pro- portioned to the quantity of the living principle, which increasing, the degree of heat may likewise be increased. If this method is not ob- served, and too great a degree of heat is at first applied, the person or part loses entirely the living principle, and mortification ensues. Such * It is upon these principles that cold air is found of so much service to people who are reduced by disease, as the confluent smallpox and fevers, by diminishing heat in proportion to the diminution of life, or lessening the necessity of the body’s producing its own cold.