310 OF ABSORPTION BY VEINS. and Segalas, have shown that a power of absorption cannot be denied to the veins; yet the admission of this power, (which must be granted on anatomical grounds to the veins of all invertebrate animals, and to some parts, probably of the vertebrata, as the eye and the brain,) does not invalidate or diminish the credit due to those experiments and enlarged conceptions of the uses and anatomical relations of the lymphatics, by which the true function of these vessels was ascertained. I say the true function: for though it be admitted that the veins absorb, yet every physiologist ^—with the excep- tion of one who has held the sympathetic nerve to be no nerve, and who, in the nine- teenth century, denied that reptiles and fishes had lymphatic vessels,—allows that ab- sorption, and the effecting a certain change in the nature of the absorbed liquors are the only functions which the lymphatic vessels perform. I would here for the present willingly leave the subject, but that I feel it incum- bent upon me, in regard to the character of an author whose works have exercised so great and salutary an influence over the surgical profession, to show that the charge of imperfection and negligence ^ which has been cast upon the Hunterian experiments,— whose want of exactness, according to M. Majendie, can only be excused by the rude state in which the art of physiological experiment was at the period when they were made,—rests entirely on the culpable oversight of the accuser. In relating one of his experiments, Mr. Hunter states: “Nov. 13, 1758. I opened the abdomen of a living sheep, which had eaten nothing for some days; and upon ex- posing the intestines and mesentery we obsers^ed the lacteals were visible, but con- tained only a transparent watery fluid.” Is it conceivable that any succeeding physiologist would have ventured, in his com- mentary on Mr. Hunter’s experiments, to object to them, “ because the experimenter had neglected to notice whether the animal experimented on was full or fasting; or whether the lacteals were or were not distended with chyle ?” To give a colour to this objection, all reference to the experiment above quoted is avoided in the ‘ Precis Elementaire ’; but even in the very experiment of which M. Ma- jendie gives a mutilated version, Mr. Hunter expressly premises that, “ having exposed the intestines fully, he observed the lacteals filled Tvith a white liquor at the upper part of the gut and mesentery; but in those that came from the ileon and colon the liquor was transparent.” In the herbivorous quadruped, the sheep, in which Mr. Hunter employed starch as the menstruum of the indigo, the transparent watery nature of the contents of the lac- teals was especially noted before the colouring material was thrown into the intestine: they were afterwards observed to be filled with a fluid of a fine blue colour. And yet M. Majendie (ibid, p. 210.) would have us believe that no alteration had been observed; that the lacteals were of the same blue colour before the injection of the indigo and starch had been performed as after. Whether, however, the coloured matter had passed into the lacteals or not, it could ^ [“ L’etat d’imperfection oil etait I’art des experiences physiologiques ^ I’epoque oil J. Hunter a fait celle-ci peut seul excuser ce celebre anatomiste de n’avoir pas senti combien il y manque de circonstances importantes pour que Ton puisse, en la supposant exacte, en tirer quelques consequences. En effet, pour que cette experience put etre de quelque utility il faudrait savoir si I’animal etait a jeun lorsqu’on I’a ouvert, ou s’il etait dans le travail de la digestion; il aurait fallut examiner I’etat des lympbatlques au commencement de I’experience; etaient-ils ou n’elaient-ils pas pleins de chyle.” &c. And again, “ Hunter fait une fausse theorie sur Tune de fonctions les plus im- portantes de la vie, il I’etaie i peine de quelques experiences inexactes, et dans tons les cas insuffisantes.”—Precis Elementaire de Physiologie, (3me ed.) tom. ii. pp. 199> 201.]