OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. 432 branch of a tree or bush* the cavities of old trees, holes of houses lead- ing into some hollow place; and whenever the stand is made, they all immediately repair to it, till they are all collected. But it would seem in some cases that they had not fixed upon any resting place before they came off, or if they had, that they were either disturbed, if it was near, or that it was at a great distance ; for after hovering some time, as if undetermined, they fly away, mount up into the air, and go oflp with great velocity. When they have fixed upon their future habita- tion, they immediately begin to make their combs, for they have the materials within themselves. I have reason to believe that they fill their crops with honey when they come away ; probably from the stock in the hive. I killed several of those that came away, and found their crops full, while those that remained in the hive had their crops not near so full: some of them came away with farina on their legs, which I conceive to be rather accidental. I maj^ just observe here, that a hive commonly sends off two, sometimes three swarms in a summer; but that the second is commonly less than the first, and the third less than the second; and this last has seldom time to provide for the win- ter : they shall often threaten to swarm, but do not; whether the threatening is owing to too many bees, and their not swarming is owing to there being no queen, I do not know. It sometimes happens that the swarm shall go back again ; but in such instances I have reason to think that they have lost their queen, for the hives to which their swarm have come back do not swarm the next warm day, but shall hang out for a fortnight or more, and then swarm; and w^hen they do, the swarm is commonly much larger than before, which makes me suspect that they waited for the queen that was to have gone off with the next swarm. So far we have set the colony in motion. The materials of their dwelling, or comb, which is the wax, is the next consideration, with the mode of forming, preparing, or disposing of it. In giving a totally new account of the wax, I shall first show it can hardly be what it has been supposed to be. First I shall observe that the materials, as they are found composing the comb, are not to be found in the same state (as a composition) in any vegetable, where they have been supposed to be got. The substance brought in on their legs, which is the farina of the flowers of plants, is, in common, I believe, imagined to be the materials of which the w'ax is made, for it is called by most the wax : but it is the farina, for it is always of the same colour as the farina of the flower where they are gathering; and indeed we see them gathering it, and we also see them covered almost all over with it, like a dust; never- theless, it has been supposed to be the wax, or that the wax was ex- tracted from it. Reaumur is of this opinion. I made several^ experi-