ANATOMICAL REMARKS, ETC. 467 ANATOMICAL REMARKS ON A NEW MARINE ANIMAL\ Animals which come from foreign countries, and cannot be brought to England alive, must be kept in spirits to preserve them from putre- faction, which makes them less fitted for anatomical examination; for the spirits which preserve them produce a change in many of their pro- perties, and alter the natural colours and texture of their parts, so that often the structure alone of the animal can be ascertained; and where this is not naturally distinct it becomes frequently entirely obscured, and the texture of the finer parts is wholly destroyed, requiring a very ex- tensive knowledge of such parts in animals at large, to assist us in bringing them to light: this happens to be the case with the animal whose dissection is the subject of this postscript. The animal (PI. LVIII.) may be said to consist of a fleshy covering, a stomach and intestinal canal, and the two cones wuth their tentacula and moveable shell, which last may be considered as appendages. The body of the animal is flattened, and terminates in two edges, which are intersected by rugse, the fasciculi of transverse muscular fibres which run across the back being continued over them. Upon each of' these edges is placed a row of fine hairs, which project to some distance from the skin. The fleshy covering consists principally of muscular fibres; those upon the back are placed transversely, to contract the body laterally; those on the belly longitudinally, to shorten the animal when stretched out, and to draw it into the shell. The stomach and intestine make one straight canal: the anterior end of this forms the mouth, which opens into the grooves made by the spiral turns of the tentacula round the stem of each of the cones; and the intestine at the posterior end opens externally, forming the anus. From the contracted state of the animal the intestine is thrown into a number of folds. On examining the cones and the tentacula I at first believed that the spiral form arose from their being in a contracted state; and that when the tentacula w’ere erected the cone untwisted, forming a longer cone ® [This animal was sent to Mr. Hunter from Barbadoes by Sir Everard (then Mr.) Home, who described it in the Philosophical Transactions for 1784 as a species of Actinia, and the anatomical remarks in the text form the postscript to tliat Paper. The same species had been, however, previously described and figured by Pallas in the Miscellanea Zoologica, p. 139, tab. x. fig. 2—10, (1766), and had been more correctly referred by that distinguished naturalist to the genus Serpula, under the name of Ser- ]}xda gigantea. It still retains this denomination, and is placed among the tubicular Anellides in the latest edition of the Regne Animal of Cuvier.] 2h2