410 ANATOMICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE TORPEDO. makes nearly a right angle with the inner edge. Each organ is at- tached to the surrounding parts by a close cellular membrane, and also by short and strong tendinous fibres which pass directly across from its outer edge to the semicircular cartilages. They are covered above and below by the common skin of the ani- mal^, under which there is a thin fascia spread over the whole organ. This is composed of fibres, which run longitudinally, or in the direction of the body of the animal: these fibres appear to be perforated in in- numerable places, which gives the fascia the appearance of being fas- ciculated ; its edges all around are closely connected to the skin, and at last appear to be lost, or to degenerate into the common cellular membrane of the skin. Immediately under this is another membrane exactly of the same kind, the fibres of which in some measure decussate those of the former, passing from the middle line of the body outwards and backwards. The inner edge of this is lost with the first described; the anterior, outer, and posterior edges are partly attached to the semicircular cartilages, and partly lost in the common cellular membrane. This inner fascia appears to be continued into the electric organ by so many processes, and thereby makes the membranous sides or sheaths of the columns, which are presently to be described ; and between these processes the fascia covers the end of each column, making the outer- most or first partition. Each organ of the fish under consideration^ is about five inches in length, and at the anterior end three in breadth, though it is but little more than half as broad as at the posterior extremity. Each consists wholly of perpendicular columns, reaching from the up- per to the under surface of the body, and varying in their lengths ac- cording to the thickness of the parts of the body where they are placed; the longest column being about an inch and a half, the shortest about one-fourth of an inch in length, and their diameters about two tenths of an inch. The figures of the columns are very irregular, varying according to situation and other circumstances. The greatest number of them are either irregular hexagons or irregular pentagons ; but from the irregu- larity of some of them it happens that a pretty regular quadrangular column is sometimes formed. Those of the exterior row are either quadrangular or hexagonal, having one side external, two lateral. [PI. liii., d 6.] [This specimen was eighteen inches long, twelve inches broad, and in its central or thickest part two inches thick.]