OP AN EXTRAORDINARY PHEASANT. 48 place in the male; neither does it grow up with the animal as it does to a certain degree in the male, but seems to be one of those changes which happen at a particular period, similar to many common and natural phenomena; like to what is observed of the horns of the stag, which differ at different ages ; or to the mane of the lion, which does not grow till after his fifth year, &c.® This change has been observed in some of the bird tribe, but princi- pally in the common pheasant; and it has been observed by those who are conversant with this bird, when wild, that there every now and then appears a hen pheasant with the feathers of a cock ; all, however, that they have described on the subject is, that this animal does not breed, and that its spurs do not grow. Some years ago one of these was sent to the late Dr. William Hunter, which I examined, and found it to have all the parts peculiar to the female of that bird. This specimen is still preserved in Dr. Hunter’s museum. Dr. Pitcairn having received a pheasant of this kind from Sir Thomas Harris, showed it as a curiosity to Sir Joseph Banks and Dr. Solander. I happening to be then present, was desired to examine the bird, and the following was the result of my examination. I found the parts of generation to be truly female, they being as per- fect as in any hen pheasant that is not in the least prepared for laying eggs, and having both the ovary and oviduct. As the observations hitherto made have been principally upon birds found wild, little of their history can be known ; but from what took place in a hen pheasant, in the possession of a friend of Sir Joseph Banks, it appears probable that this change of character takes place at an ad- vanced period of the animal’s life, and does not grow up with it from the beginning. This lady, who had for some time bred pheasants, and paid particular attention to them, observ’ed that one of the hens, after having produced several broods, moulted, when the succeeding feathers were those of a cock, and that this animal was never afterwards impreg- nated. Hence it is most probable that all the hen pheasants found wild, having the feathers of a cock, were formerly perfect hens, but have been changed by age, or perhaps by certain constitutional circumstances’’. ® [We have observed in the young African lions at the Zoological Gardens, that the mane began to be distinctly developed at the third year, and was completed at the fourth.] [The cause of the change in the plumage which Mr. Hunter here alludes to, has been proved by subsequent dissections to be effective and not uncommon. See the paper entitled ‘ On the Change in the Plumage of some Hen-Pheasants,’ by Wm. Yarrell, Esq., Phil. Trans. 1827, in which the author states, that “certain constitutional cir- cumstances producing this change may, and do occur, at any period during the life of the fowl, and that they can be produced by artificial means.”]