OF ABSORPTION BY VEINS. 300 a hundred ruptures and extravasations in the villi of the gut. All this looks as if the fluid oozed through the coats rather than was poured out by the branches of arteries. “ In the third place, I have observed that the cellular membrane is not so immediately filled by injecting the arteries; it requires some time, and I have plainly seen, when I have let an injected part lie by a little while, that the cellular membrane became gradually more loaded as the arterial system became more empty: a strong argument, in my mind, that it got out of the arteries by transudation. “ In the fourth place, water and even red blood soaks through all our vessels and membranes in dead bodies ; as you may see by steeping the apex of a heart well washed, or the convolution of a piece of fresh in- testine in clear water; in both cases the water will become bloody. “ But still it is said that in all these cases the fluids pass by fine ex- haling vessels, though these vessels cannot be seen. To this I answer that if our interstitial fluid was of a strong marked colour, we should then by dissection be able to observe whether it was poured out by small arteries, or whether it soaked through the natural pores in the coats of vessels. Now, very fortunately for us in this dispute, there is one such fluid in the body : it is the bile. Its colour is pretty deep, and very different from anything that lies near the gall-bladder. No man can have opened any number of bodies without allowing that the gall does pass through all the coats of the gall-bladder, and pervades the substance of the neighbouring parts, not by exhaling nor by inhaling vessels, but by manifest transudation or soaking. “ It might be asked, why the red blood does not transude through the vessels in living bodies; for I think it certainly does not. In answer to this it may be said that our fibres and vessels have perhaps some de- gree of tension and firmness in life which they lose with life; and it must be observed too, that in proportion as the blood putrefies it be- comes thinner: whence we see, in opening a putrid body, all the cavi- ties more or less filled with a bloody water, and all distinction of colour in the muscles and cellular membrane quite lost. But what I suppose to be the principal reason that red blood does not transude through the vessels in living bodies is its glutinous quality, its thickness while it is equally mixed up with its coagulating part. That part coagulates as certainly as the blood stagnates even in living bodies; and when the universal stagnation happens in death, this part of the blood collects itself into irregular polypi and coagulations all over the body, and the rest of the blood is no longer the thick viscid fluid it was before, but rather a bloody serum, that will ooze through all the vessels and mem- branes.”