AND (ECONOMY OF WHALES. 359 hare, lion, &c., the appearances of the teeth only give us the kind of colon and csecum; but in this tribe, whether teeth or no teeth, the stomachs do not vary much, nor does the circumstance of caecum seem to depend on either teeth or stomach. The circumstances by which from the form of one part we judge what others are, fail us here ; but this may arise from not knowing all the circumstances. The stomach in all that I have examined consists of several bags, continued from the first on the left towards the right, where the last terminates in duode- num. The number is not the same in all: for in the porpoise, gram- ])us, and piked whale there are five; in the bottle-nose {Hyperoodon) seven. Their size respecting one another differs very considerably, so that the largest in one species may in another be only the second. The two first in the porpoise, bottle-nose, and piked wha.le, are by much the largest; the others are smaller, although irregularly so. The first stomach has, I believe, in all very much the shape of an egg, with the small end downwards. It is lined everywhere with a continu- ation of the cuticle from the oesophagus. In the porpoise the oesopha- gus enters the superior end of the stomach. In the piked whale its en- trance is a little way on the posterior part of the upper end, and is oblique. The second stomach in the piked whale is very large, and rather longer than the first. It is of the shape of the italic S, passing out from the upper end of the first on its right side, by nearly as large a beginning as the body of the bag. In the porpoise it by no means bears the same proportion to the first, and opens by a narrower orifice; then passing down along the right side of the first stomach, it bends a little outwards at the lower end, and terminates in the third. Where this second stomach begins, the cuticle of the first ends*^. The whole of the inside of this stomach is thrown into unequal rugae, appearing like a large irregular honeycomb. In the piked whale the rugae are longitudinal, and in many places very deej), some of them being united by cross bands; and in the porpoise the folds are very thick, massy. * [The lining membrane of the first stomach in the porpesse sends off a number of irregular projections, where it surrounds the opening into the second stomach, whereby that opening is rendered valvular, and adapted to prevent the passage of anything but fluids or substances of very small size. The first stomach, therefore, serves not only as a reservoir, but the food undergoes a considerable change in it, probably by the ac- tion of the gastric secretion of the second cavity regurgitated into it. Thus the bones of fish have been found in the first cavity with all the flesh dissolved, and the bones themselves softened by the removal of their earthy constituent. See Preparation No. 569 c. Physiological Series, Hunterian Museum.]