76 ACCOUNT OF A WOMAN WHO HAD fifteen or sixteen days after the beginning of the eruption on the mo- ther, perfectly agrees with the possibility of the infection’s being caught from the mother. Thirdly, The external appearance of the pustules in the child was perfectly that of the smallpox, as must have appeared from the relation given in Mr. Wastall’s letter. Most of the pustules were distinct, but some were blended or united at their base. The face had the greatest number, and these were in general the most indistinct. They were somewhat flattened, with a dent in the middle*. So far were the leading circumstances and external appearances in favour of their being the variolous eruption; but although these leading circumstances and external appearances were incontrovertible, yet they were not an absolute proof of this being the genuine smallpox; therefore I must be allowed to consider this s\ibject a little further, and see how far all the circumstances correspond or are similar to the true smallpox. In the smallpox we have a previous fever, in place of which, in the pre- sent case, we have no information but that of the mother’s having had the smallpox within such a limited time as may favour the possibility of infection in the womb; yet we may presume that the child must have had considerable fever preceding such an eruption, of whatsoever kind it was. In the smallpox the eruption goes through pretty regular stages in its progress and declension, which circumstances we know nothing of in the present case; but even this fever, the eruptions, and their pro- gress, are not absolutely proofs that the disorder is the smallpox when it is caught in the common and natural way; and in proof of this assertion, it may be observed, that practitioners every now and then are mistaken. It may be asked. What is the true characteristic of the smallpox ? That by which it differs from all other eruptions that we are acquainted with} The most certain character of the smallpox that I know is, the formation of a slough, or a part becoming dead by the variolous inflam- mation ; a circumstance which hitherto, I believe, has not been taken notice of. This was very evident in the arms of those who were inoculated in the old way, where the wounds were considerable, and were dressed every day ; which mode of treatment kept them from scabbing, by which means this process was easily observed; but in the present method of inoculation it is hardly observable : the sore being allowed to scab, the slough and scab unite and drop off together. The same indistinctness * I endeavoured to take some matter upon the point of two lancets; but not having an opportunity of making an experiment myself, I gave them to two gentlemen, who, I imagine, were afraid of inoculating with them.