CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 229 The bones and cartilages are confined or kept together by strong pli- able substances called ligaments. . There are also parts called tendons, which are the medium of union between the different parts of the machine and the powers. They have hitherto been considered as belonging to the powers ; but I shall rather make them a part of the machine itself. A tendon is a peculiar substance, placed between some muscles or powers and the parts of the machine to be acted upon by such powers. It is composed of white fibres placed parallel to each other, forming a chord, which is extremely flexible, has no sensible elasticity, and is much smaller than the power to which it is attached. Its figure is in general a little rounded ; sometimes, however, rather flattened, and in many situations it is broad and thin ; in all cases it is extended between the body to be moved and the power. It is sometimes spread out in breadth, and is then called fascia: this form answers various purposes. Its fibres in some situations run pretty parallel, but in general they are interwoven. It has flexibility, strength, and convenience in size. The application of this substance is extremely extensive, complicated, and various. The parts adapted to motion in animal bodies, as bones, tendons, &c., are formed with greater nicety, and fitted for more exact motions in the more perfect animals, of which we have a striking instance in the hu- man subject. The purposes which this substance, called tendinous, answers in the IIanimal machine are the following ; First, it intervenes between the body to be moved and the power, to keep up the exact proportion necessary between them to produce any determined motion, so that the length of the bones, or the distance be- tween the joints or points of motion, the quantity of motion in the joint, and the quantity of contraction in the muscle, are proportioned to one another. But if this substance had been wanting, and the muscular fibres had extended the whole distance between many of those joints, the power of contraction in such a muscle would have been much too great, espe- cially in the extremities^. The tendon is used for this purpose princi- I — - ■ ■ ■ . ■■ — ! * [A most beautiful and forcible example of the use of tendon in limiting the length of a muscle to the extent of motion required to be produced in the part to be moved occurs in the sterno-thyroidei of the giraffe. Had these muscles been continued fleshy as usual, from their origin, through the whole length of the neck, to their insertion, it I is obvious that a great proportion of the muscular fibres would have been useless, be- ! cause such a condition of the muscle would have been equal to have drawn down the larynx and os hyoides more than one third of the extent of the neck, which is neither required nor permitted by the mechanical attachments of the parts. The sterno-thyroidei, therefore, proceed from the head of the sternum blended together in one fleshy fascicu-