OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. 437 very little wax in their composition, not one-third; the rest I conceive to be farina. This is supposed to be the cell in which the queen is bred, but I have reason to believe that this is only imagination ; for, first, it is too large, and, moreover, seldom so deep as the large cells in which the males are bred ; whereas, if proportioned to the length of the queen, it ought to be deeper, for length of body is her greatest difference. In the second place, its mouth is placed downwards; and in the third place, it is never lined with the silken covering of the chrysalis, simi- lar to the cells of the males and labourers; nor do we find excrement at the bottom of it. The number of these cells is very different in different hives. I think I have seen hives without any, and I have seen them with eleven or twelve, sometimes more. I have examined them at all times through the summer, but never found any alteration in them. The comb seems at first to be formed for propagation, and the re- ception of honey to be only a secondary use ; for if the bees lose their queen they make no combs; and the wasp, hornet, &c. make combs, although they collect no honey; and the humble bee collects honey, and deposits it in cells she never made. I shall not consider the bee as an excellent mathematician, capable of making exact forms, and having reasoned upon the best shape of the cell for capacity, so that the greatest number might be put into the smallest space (for the hornet and the wasp are much more correct, although not seemingly under the same necessity, as they collect no- thing to occupy their cells); because, although the bee is pretty perfect in these respects, yet it is very incorrect in others, in the formation of the comb : nor shall I consider these animals as forming comb of cer- ^ tain shape and size, from mere mechanical necessity, as from working \ round themselves ; for such a mould would not form cells of different % sizes, much less could wasps be guided by the same principle, as their I cells are of very different sizes, and the first by much too small for the I queen wasp to have worked round herself: but I shall consider the I whole as an instinctive principle, in which the animal has no power of I variation or choice, but such as arises from what may be called exter- I nal necessity. The cell has in common six sides, but this is most cor- ■ rect in those first formed ; and their bottom is commonly composed of I those sides or planes, two of the sides making one; and they generally “ fall in between the bottoms of three cells of the opposite side ; but this ' is not regular, it is only to be found where there is no external inter- 5 ruption. I have already observed, that the last-formed cells in the season are