CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 221 Swelling of Muscles. We may suppose that the blood is of great use in muscular contrac- tion ; for in violent and frequent actions of the muscles they swell and become considerably larger^ not when in action only, but when relaxed immediately after the action, and will continue swelled for some time. This swelling does not come on till the muscle is tired of acting: this must be from a greater influx of blood at that time, or that the ac- tion does not let the blood pass so freely through the veins. It must be owing to something of this kind which happens to animals wdiich use much violent exercise, and are killed during the action, that they are redder, fuller, and eat much tenderer, but do not keep so long. There is a material difference between a hare or deer that is shot and one run down by dogs. Muscles not only become really larger by acting, but also become larger in the time of acting, and for that time only, subsiding gradually after the action is over: this increase is in proportion to the violence of the auction at the time, and appears to go on till they are tired, and is probably one cause of their being so. In order to ascertain this fact as much as possible, I made the follow- ing experiments. Immediately after getting up in the morning, having used my arm as little as possible, I measured the circumference of my right arm across the belly of the biceps flexor, while in the relaxed state of all the muscles of this part, and found it measured ten inches and a half. I then bent the fore arm, in which action the biceps be- ing contracted, I measured it again at the same place, and found it twelve inches one eighth, so that this part of the arm had gained one inch and five eighths. After having thus ascertained the size of the arm, both when all the muscles were relaxed and also when contracted, I next worked an air- pump for about ten minutes with considerable violence, when my arm became quite tired. On repeating the above mensurations I found my arm in the relaxed state eleven inches and five eighths, and in the bent state twelve inches and five eighths; so that the arm, by acting ten minutes, had acquired an increase of six eighths of an inch in circum- ference even in the relaxed state of the muscles, and four eighths in the contracted state. That the calf of the leg swells towards night is a common observa- tion ; and I suppose it is principally owing to its having acted so much through the day. That the swelling in such cases is in the muscles themselves is evi- dent from the stiffness felt in acting with tired muscles.