28 ON THE GLANDS CALLED VESICUL.E SEMINALES. these bags; and yet there appears to be no difference between the mode of copulation of the drake and the bull or ram. It is very natural to suppose that if the vesiculse were reservoirs of semen they would be more necessary in birds, who have the power of repeating the act of co- pulation in an infinitely greater degree than quadrupeds; and indeed we find that in birds there are reservoirs, which may account for this power; the vasa deferentia being enlarged just before they open into the rectum, probably to answer that intention. As birds have no ure- thra, some having merely a groove, as the drake and ganderand many being even without a groove, as the common fowl, it was absolutely necessary there should be such a reservoir somewhere; and the neces- sity of this will appear more evidently by and by. What I have observed of the reservoir of birds is equally applicable to amphibious animals, and to that order of fish called rays. From the above observations I think we may fairly conclude that these vesiculae are not for the purpose of containing semen: the single circumstance of their ducts being united to those of the testicles in the human subject not appearing suflicient to set aside the many facts which are contradictory to such an opinion. Having endeavoured to show that the function of these vesiculae has hitherto been misunderstood, the following observations will tend to prove that they are subservient to generation, though their particular use is not yet discovered; and, for the better understanding this part of the subject, I shall premise the following facts. Animals have their natural feelings raised or increased according to the perfection of the parts connected with such feelings; and the dis- position for action is also in proportion to the state of the parts and the excitement of such feelings. But, that these feelings may be duly ex- cited, it is necessary that the animal and the parts should be healthy, in good condition, and in a certain degree of warmth suitable to that class to which the animal belongs. In the greatest part of the globe there is a difference in the warmth of the same district at different pe- riods, constituting the seasons ; and the cold in some of them is so con- siderable as to prevent those feelings or dispositions in animals from taking place, and to render them, for the time, unfit for the purposes of generation*. This is owing to the testicles becoming at this season * It is not required that the season for the copulation of different animals should be equally warm; for the frog copulates in very cold weather, while the snake and lizard, which are also cold, sleeping animals, do not copulate till the season is warm. * [After repeated examination, we find the structure of the urethra in the drake to be as here described, viz. a groove, and not a complete canal, as represented by Sir Everard Home. Sec Phil. Trans. 1802, p. 361. pi. xii.]