PREFACE. V cultivators of that science in the sixteenth and seventeenth cen- turies, easily enabled them to detect the weakness of such claims, without perhaps their possessing such a knowledge of Hunter’s labours as to justly appreciate their scope and tendency, and to view them, as they deserve to be viewed, in the light of a first great attempt to arrange in one concatenated system the diver- sified facts in comparative anatomy. Cuvier, for example, in his review of the progress of science in the latter half of the eighteenth century, a period which may he regarded as a second revival of comparative anatomy and physiology, places Hunter in an inferior category of contri- butors to those sciences. After eulogizing the share which the erudite Haller took in demonstrating the importance of com- parative anatomy to the advancement of physiology, and the corresponding effects which the labours of Daubenton and Pallas produced in establishing sounder ideas of the classifica- tion of animals, the historian of the natural sciences goes on to state : “ John Hunter in England, the two Monros in Scotland, Camper in Holland, and Vicq D’Azyr in France were the first who followed their footsteps. Camper,” he observes,cast, so to say, a passing glance of the eye of genius on a number of interesting objects, yet almost all his labours were but sketches. Vicq D’Azyr, with more assiduity, was arrested by a premature death in the midst of a brilliant career; but their works in- spired a general interest, which has ever since been on the in- crease.” With reference to the nature or influence of the labours of Hunter, Cuvier is silent; he limits himself to an indication in a marginal note of the Treatise on the Teeth and “ les autres ecrits de Hunter inseres en partie dans les Transactions Phi^ losophiques^ '' This was meting out but scanty justice to the author of the Treatise on the Blood and of the Observations on the Animal CEconomy, which abound with so many general propositions in comparative anatomy and physiology. If, however, this opinion of Cuvier be excusable under the circumstances under which it was written, it would be unpardonable not to appeal against it upon the evidence of the higher claims of Hunter afforded by • Histoire des Progrh des Sciences NaturelleSj depuis 1789, tom. i. p. 302.