OF ABSORPTION BY VEINS. 312 into the foot {enfonc^s dans la patie). Its effects became evident in less than four .minutes; in less than ten the animal was dead. To avoid the objection of invisible lymphatics in the tissue of the vessels, a segment of both artery and vein was removed, after having substituted a portion of quill, so that there remained no other communica- tion between the limb and the animal excepting by the blood Avhich circulated from one to the other. The poison introduced into the foot {introduit dans lapatte) pro- duced its effects in about four minutes. What makes it so evident, adds M. Majendie, that the crural vein was the sole medium of introduction to the poison is this; that simple compression of this vessel arrested the deadly effects of the ui>as, which again immediately manifested themselves on a remission of the pressure'. Now, although the objection of lymphatics in the coats of the vessels is obAuated in this experiment, yet its conclusiveness may be questioned on this ground, that the poi- son is applied to a wound where it can enter the cmculating fluids by open and divided veins; but this is by no means the condition which is understood in the theory of venous absorption, which relates only to an action attributed to the veins in their natural state, and through the medium of their organic pores. If this objection be in- vahdated by the experiment in which the decoction of nux vomica was apphed to an entire mucous surface, as when injected into the intestine, yet this may be accounted for by the paralyzing effects of the narcotic upon the animal tissues with which it comes in contact: it may be objected that their vitality is destroyed, that inorganic imbibition then takes place, and that the poison thus passes into the cavity of the vessels, and is carried along the returning currents to the heart. But objections from the permeability of the tissue of a paralyzed vein are endea- voured to be overcome by the assertion that all absorption is the effect of non-vital imbibition, that it is a property which the living animal tissues possess in common with inorganic substances. Thus M. Fodera having repeated the experiment of MM. Majendie and SegaJas, in which the solution of nux vomica was injected into the intestine, afterw^ai’ds in- closes the same poisonous solution in a dead portion of intestine, inserts this into a loop of the intestines of a living animal, and from the effect produced by the transu- dation of the poison through the parietes of the dead intestine, and through the para- lyzed surface of that of the animal experimented upon, draws a sw'eeping conclusion as to the nature of absorption in general. M. Majendie also rejects the theory of the vital action of the absorbents, and strongly condemns the supposition of a selecting power in absorbent pores as gratuitous and unphilosophical. He threw into the thorax of a dog a solution of nux vomica, and he found that in proportion as the obstacles to a free circulation w'ere increased, by distending the blood-vessels with warm water, the effects of the poison on the system were retarded. This experiment is of the same species as that by M. Segalas, who limited the field of observation by confining the poison within a loop of intestine, and interrupted the venous cun-ent altogether by a ligature; it is consequently less con- clusive, though liable to the same objections. When M. Majendie removed the ob- stacles wiiich he had imposed on the circulation by opening a vein and relieving the distended vessels, the imbibed solution of nux vomica rapidly produced its effects. Thus the ordinary laws of the living tissue being suspended by the application of a narcotic or other poison to them, and mechanical imbibition being thereby per- mitted,—or wdien similar poisons are directly applied to divided vessels it may be concluded, fi’om the experiments above quoted, that whatever arrests the return of the empoisoned blood to the heart, whether atmospheric pressure, produced by the action [Zoc. d/., p. 255, 256.]