OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE 376 mass of muscle required; and, from the thinness of the jaw-bone, the distance between the lower surface of the mouth and external surface of the skin is but small; and this skin being ribbed and very elastic is capable of considerable distention, by which the cavity of the mouth can be enlarged. The tongue of the large whalebone whale, I should suppose, rose in the mouth considerably; the two jaws at the middle being kept at such a distance on account of the whalebone, so that the space between, when the mouth is shut, must be filled up by the tongue. Of the Sense of Smelling. In this tribe of animals there is something very remarkable in what relates to the sense of smelling; nor have I been able to discover the particular mode by which it is performed. When we consider these animals as mammalia, and only constructed differently in external form for progressive motion through water, we must see that it was necessary that all the senses should correspond with this medium : we must therefore be at a loss to conceive how they smell, since we may observe that the organ for smelling water, as in fish, is very different from that formed to smell air; and as we must sup- pose this tribe are only to smell water, being the medium in which such odoriferous particles can be diffused, we should expect their organ to be similar to that of fish; but in that case nature would have been obliged to have attached the nose of a fish to an animal constructed like a quadruped ; and it is contrary to the laws which are established in the animal creation to mix parts of different animals together. In many of this tribe there is no organ of smell at all; and in those which have such an organ, it is not that of a fish, therefore probably not calculated to smell water. It becomes difficult therefore to account for the manner in which such animals smell the water; and why the others should not have had such an organ*, which, I believe, is peculiar to the large and small whalebone whales. Although it is not the external air which they inspire that produces smell, I believe it is the air retained in the nostril out of the current of respiration, which by being impregnated with the odoriferous particles contained in the water during the act of blowing, is applied to the organ of smell. It might be supposed that they could smell the air on * Is the mode of smelling in fish similar to tasting in other animals ? Or is the air contained in the water impregnated with the odoriferous parts, and this air the fish smells ? If so, it is somewhat similar to the breathing of fish, it not being the water which produces the cfiect there, hut the air contained in it. This I proved by expe- rimeuts, and is mentioned by Dr. Priestley.