96 OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. trie juice, when in sufficient quantity, will always prevent the vinous fermentation. Spallanzani’s next trials were to determine whether the gastric juice had the power of recovering meat already putrid; a fact which might have been proved by one experiment; for if very putrid meat is given to a dog, and the dog killed after some time, the meat will be found sw^eet, and all putrefaction at an end. Therefore his allowing fresh meat to continue a longer or shorter time in the stomach w^as immate- rial, as it could not become putrid. It appears from the above facts that the stomach has not so much power in preventing the acetous fermentation in vegetables as in cor- recting the putrefactive disposition in animal substances. For although this cannot be certainly known in those who eat both animal and vege- table food, yet it does not appear that the putrefaction of animal sub- stances, where nothing else is eaten, takes place so quickly in the sto- mach as the change which is produced in vegetables; the acetous dis- position is therefore either stronger than Ijie putrefactive, or it more readily takes place : and indeed the living body shows this sufficiently; for we very often find an acid thrown up, but seldom or never anything putrefactive. It may be admitted as an axiom that two processes cannot go on at the same time in the same part of any substance; therefore neither ve- getable nor animal substances can undergo their spontaneous changes while in the act of being digested, it being a process superior in power to that of fermentation. But if the digestive power is not perfect, then the vinous and acetous fermentation will take place in the vegetable, and the putrefactive in the food of those animals which live wholly on flesh; although in the last I imagine but very seldom. The gastric juice, therefore, preserves vegetables from running into fermentation, and animal substances from putrefaction; not from any antiseptic qua- lity in the juice, but, by making them go through another process, pre- venting the spontaneous change from taking place. In the greater number of stomachs there is an acid, even although the animal has lived upon meat for many weeks; but as this is not always the case, yve must suppose it is only formed occasionally. Whether the stomach has a power of immediately secreting this acid, or first secretes a sugar w'hich afterwards becomes acid, is not easily ascertained^; but I should be in- ® [The singular case of the man with an external fistulous communication with the stomach, detailed by Mr. Beaumont, who has so ably availed himself of the circumstance to elucidate several obscure points in the process of digestion, has afforded the means ^ of determining this question. The stomach in its empty and inactive state contains no gastric juice; but when mechanically stimulated, as by touching the inner surface with- I