OBSERVATIONS ON SOME FOSSIL BONES. 4?5 has a common proportional breadth. It is supposed, indeed, that the heads of the present white bear differ from one another; but the truth of this assertion I have not seen heads enough of that animal to deter- mine. The heads not only vary in shape but also in size; for some of them, when compared with the recent white bear, would seem to have be- longed to an animal twice its size: W'hile some of the bones correspond in size with those of the white bear, and others are even smaller*. There are two ossa humeri, rather of a less size than those of the re- cent white bear; a first vertebra, rather smaller; the teeth also vary considerably in size, yet they are all those of the same tribe; so that the variety among themselves is not less than between them and the recent. In the formation of the head, age makes a considerable difference: the skull of a young dog is much more rounded than an old one ; the ridge leading back to the occiput, terminating in the two lateral ones, hardly exists in a young dog; and among the present bones there is the back part of such a head, yet it is larger than the head of the largest mastiff; how far the young white bear may vary from the old, similar to the young dog, I do not know, but it is very probable^. Drawings of the different heads and ossa humeri, done in a very masterly manner by Mr. Batty, surgeon, in Great Marlborough-street, who was so obliging as to take that trouble, are annexed to this account. See Tab. LIX. and LX. Bones of animals under circumstances so similar, although in differ- ent parts of the globe, one would have naturally supposed to consist chiefly of those of one class or order in every place, one principle acting in all places^. In Gibraltar they are mostly of the ruminating tribe, of * It is to be understood that the bones of the white bear that I have, belonged to one that had been a show, and had not grown to the full or natural size ; and I make allowance for this in my assertion that the heads of those incrusted appear to belong to an animal twice the size of our white bear. * [There are now skulls of the young and old white bear in the Collection of the College of Surgeons in London which confirm Hunter’s conjecture respecting the dif- ference of form which is due to age in this genus. It will be seen that Hunter adduces this circumstance merely as one which must be taken into eonsideration in comparing recent and fossil erania of the same genus; and that he by no means asserts, as Cuvier states he does, that the differences which he had deteeted between the fossil and recent skulls, and between the different fossil skulls of the cave bears, are of the same natm-e and degree.—Ossemens Fossiles, 6me Ed., tom. vii. p. 236.] ^ [This sagaeious conjecture has received remarkable confirmation from recent dis- coveries ; the fossil bones that have been found in AustraUa appertain for the most part to animals of the marsupial order, and those collected in South America contain