149 ON ANIMALS PRODUCING HEAT. nearly that of the atmosphere, was put into water heated to 65®, for fifteen minutes; and, upon examination, it was found of the same de- gree of heat with the water. Experiment XL. A tench, whose heat was 41°, was put into water at 65°, and left there ten minutes; the ball of the thermometer being introduced both into the stomach and rectum, the quicksilver rose to 55°. These experiments were repeated with nearly the same result. To determine whether life had any power of resisting heat and cold in inferior classes of animals, I made comparative trials between living and dead ones. Experiment XLI. I took a living and a dead tench, and a living and a dead eel, and put them into warm water; they all received heat equally fast: and when they were exposed to cold, both the living and the dead admitted the cold likewise with equal quickness. I had long suspected that the principle of life was not wholly con- fined to animals, or animal substance endowed with visible organization and spontaneous motion; but supposed that the same principle might exist in animal substances, devoid of apparent organization and motion, when the power of preservation was simply required. I was led to this opinion about twenty years ago, when busied in making drawings of the growth of the chick in the process of incuba- tion. I then observed, that whenever an egg was hatched, the yolk (which is not diminished in the time of incubation) was always per- fectly sweet to the very last; and that the part of the albumen, which has not been expended on the growth of the animal, some days before hatching, was also perfectly sweet, although both were kept in a heat of 103° in the hen’s egg for three weeks, and in the duck’s for four; but I observed that if an egg was not hatched, that egg became putrid in nearly the same time with any other dead animal matter. To determine from other tests how far eggs possessed a living prin- ciple, I made the following experiments. Experiment XLII. After having placed an egg in a cold about 0, till it froze, I allowed it to thaw; by which process it was to be supposed the preserving powers of the egg must be destroyed. I then put this egg into the cold mixture, and with it one newly laid, and found the difference in freezing was seven minutes and a half, the fresh one so much longer time resisting the powers of cold. Experiment XLIII. A new laid egg being put into a cold atmo- sphere, fluctuating between 17° and 15°, took above half an hour to freeze ; but when thawed and put into an atmosphere at 25°, it froze in half the time. This experiment was repeated frequently with nearly the same result.