OF THE SITUATION OF THE TESTIS IN THE FCETUS. 13 In some cases the aperture of the sac is not entirely closed, allows ing a fluid to pass down and form a hydrocele; which fluid, upon pressure, can be squeezed back into the belly; and instances of this kind sometimes giving the idea of a gut being protruded, make it diffi- 'cult to determine the exact nature of the case. “ What is the immediate cause of the descent of the testis from the loins to the scrotum ? It is evident that it cannot be the compressive force of respiration; because the testis is commonly in the scrotum be- fore the child has breathed, that is, the effect has been produced be- fore the supposed cause has existed. Is the testis pulled down by the cremaster muscle ? I can hardly suppose that it is ; because, if that was the case, I see no reason why it should not take place in the hedgehog, as well as in other quadrupeds; and if the musculus testis had this power it could not bring it lower than the ring of the muscle. ^‘,Why do the testes take their blood-vessels from such distant trunks.? Those physiologists who have puzzled themselves about the solution of this question have not considered that in the first formation of the body the testes are situated not in the scrotum but immediately below the kidneys; and that therefore it was very natural that their blood-vessels should rise nearly in the same manner as those of the kidneys, but a little lowerThe great length of the spermatic vessels in the adult body will no doubt occasion a more languid circulation, which we may suppose was the intention of nature. “ The situation of the testis in the foetus may likewise account for the contrary directions of the epididymis and of the vas deferens in adult bodies, though these two in reality make only one excretory canal. In * [The singular course of the recurrent nerves results from a similar mechanical cause. At the period when the rudimentary larynx first derives its nerves from the par vagum, the head and trunk are not separated by a neck, the trachea is not formed, the heart is situated near the base of the cranium, and the branchial arteries given off from the bulb of the then single artery pass above the nerves in question. As the an- terior extremities bud forth, the brachial plexuses are developed and the neck begins to elongate; then the rings of the trachea are successively added, and the larynx which before was close to the heart, is carried upward, and the recurrent nerves, restrained by their relations to the arteries, which are now converted into the subclavian on the right side and aortic arch on the left, become proportionately elongated. The recurrent course of the branch of the dental nerve which supplies the pulp of the incisor in the porcupine and other Rodentia is explicable on a similar principle, the relative position of the pulp to the origin of its nerve being gradually changed by the growth of the jaw and extension of the tooth. See the preparation illustrating this fact in the Gallery of the Hunterian Museum, No. 357 B. It is scarcely necessary to observe that the above mechanical explanation of the course of the recurrent nerves leaves the question of the final cause as open as before. Mr. Hunter, after giving the physical cause of the course of the spermatic artery, next pro- ceeds to inquire into the intention of Nature with reference to that peculiarity.]