445 OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. Although I have now completed a hive, and no operations are going on in the winter months, yet the history of this hive is imperfect till it sends forth a new swarm. As the common bee is very susceptible of cold, we find as soon as the cold weather sets in they become very quiet or still, and remain so throughout the winter, living on the produce of the summer and autumn; and indeed a cold day in the summer is sufficient to keep them at home more so than a shower in a warm day ; and if the hive is thin and much exposed, they will hardly move in it, but get as close together as the comb will let them, into a cluster. In this manner they appear to live through the winter; however, in a fine day they become very lively and active, going abroad, and appearing to enjoy it, at which time they get rid of their excrement; for I fancy they seldom throw out their excre- ment when in the hive. To prove this, I confined some bees in a small hive, and fed them with honey for some days, and the moment I let them out they flew, and threw out their excrement in large quantities; and therefore in the winter, I presume, they retain the contents of their bowels for a considerable time. Indeed, when we consider their con- finement in the winter, and that they have no place to deposit their excrement, we can hardly account for the whole of this operation in them. Their excrement is of a yellow colour, and according to their confinement it is found higher and higher up in the intestine, almost as high as the crop. Their life at this season of the year is more uniform, and may be termed simple existence, till the warm weather arrives again. As they now subsist on their summer’s industry, they would seem to feed in pro- portion to the coldness of the season ; for from experiment I found the hive grow lighter in a cold week than it did in a warmer, which led to further experiments. 1 first made an experiment upon a bee-hive, to ascertain the quantity of honey lost through the winter. The hive was put into the scale November 3, 1776. oz. drams. November 10th, it had lost 2 7 17th, 4 24 24th, 3 7| December 1st, 8 2 8th, 2 1 15 th, 5 2 22nd, 4 3 29th, 5 4 1777. January 1st, 2 5 12th, 5 2 19th, 3 4