ON THE COLOUR OF THE PIGMENTUM OF THE EYE. 283 see much better in the dark, or with less light than those in which it is of a dark colour: of the first of these I shall take my instance from the human species; of the second the ferret will serve as an example. Those of the human species who have the pigmentum of a light co- lour see much better with a less degree of light than those who have it dark; and this in proportion to their fairness; for when the hair is quite white they cannot see at all in open day without knitting their eyebrows and keeping the eyelids almost shut. In many of these instances there is an universal glare of light from the pupil, tinged with a shade of red, which colour, most probably, arises from the blood in the vessels of the choroid coat. I have likewise observed that the pigmentum is thinnest when it is light, so that some of the light which is reflected from the point of vision would seem to be thrown all over the inner surface of the eye, which being white, or rather a reddish white, the light appears to be again reflected from side to side*. This seemed to be the case in a boy at Shepperton, when about three years of age, of whom I have a portrait, to show that appearance. He is now about thirteen years of agef; the common light of the day is still too much for him; the twi- light is less offensive. When in a room he turns his eyes from the window, and when made to expose his face to the light, or when out in the open air, he knits his eyebrows, half shuts his eyelids, and bends his head forwards, or a little down : yet the light appears to be less ob- noxious to him now than formerly, probably from habit. Such persons appear to be nearer sighted than people in common, but I apprehend that appearance to arise from the position into which they throw the eyelids and eyebrows, which not only in a great degree excludes the light, making the object faint in proportion to the contraction of the pupil and shade made by the eyelids and eyebrows, but at the same time fits the eye to see near objects; for if we nearly close our eyelids and knit our eyebrows we can see a small object much nearer than if we did not perform such actions, and it will make above a foot difference in the focal distance of the eye. In many rabbits who have white eyelashes, and in white mice, the pigmentum is entirely white, which is likewise observable in a certain distinct species of animals, the ferret, which we have adduced as an ex- ample of the pigmentum being naturally white; for these animals being intended to see in the dark, and their mode of life not exposing them * How far this is really the case I do not absolutely say; for whatever light comes through the pupil must be reflected from the point of vision; but I imagined I saw the light passing through the substance of the iris. t The period here alluded to is 1780, when the first edition of this work was pub- lished.