172 OF PERSONS APPARENTLY DROWNED. a j)rocess invariably takes place with regard to men, and the same thing, I am convinced, happens to other animals. For if an eel is exposed to a degree of cold sufficiently intense to benumb it till the remains of life are scarcely perceptible, and still retained in a cold of about 40®, this small proportion of living principle will continue for a considerable time without diminution or increase ; but if the animal is afterwards placed in a heat about 60®, after showing strong signs of returning life, it will die in a few minutes. Nor is this circumstance peculiar to the diminu- tion of life by cold. The same phenomena take place in animals wliich have been very much reduced by hunger. If a lizard or snake, when it goes to its autumnal hiding-place, is not sufficiently fat, the living powers are, before the season permits it to come out, very considerably weakened; perhaps so much as not to admit of the animal being again restored. If animals in a torpid state are exposed to the sun’s rays, or placed in any situation which by its warmth would give vigour to those of the same kind possessed of a larger share of life, they will immediately show signs of increased life, but quickly sink under the experiment and die ; while others, reduced to the same degree of weakness, as far as appearances can discover, will live for many weeks, if kept in a degree of cold proportioned to the quantity of life they possess. I observed, many years ago, in some of the colder parts of this island, that when intense cold had forced blackbirds or thrushes to take shelter in outhouses, such of them as had been caught, and were, from an ill- judged compassion, exposed to a considerable degree of warmth, died very soon. The reason of this I did not then understand ; but I am now satisfied that it was owing, as in other instances, to the degree of heat being increased too suddenly for the proportion of life remaining in the animal. From these facts it appears that warmth causes a greater exertion of the living powers than cold ; and that an animal in a weakly state may be obliged by it to exert a quantity of the action of life sufficient to de- stroy the very powers themselves*. The same effects probably take l)lace even in perfect health ; it appearing, from experiments made in a heated room, that a person in health, exposed to a great degree of heat, found the actions of life accelerated so much as to produce at last faint- ness and debilityf. If bedclothes are put over the drowned person, so as scarcely to touch him, steam of volatile alkali, or of warm balsams and essential * It is upon this principle that parts mortify in consequence of inflammation. I Vide Phil. Trans, for the year 1775, vol. Ixv. p. 111.