OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. 101 from the body, which makes it necessary to ascertain, by experiment, from whence the air comes which is attached to the body when immersed in water. Water takes up air in proportion to its coldness, until it loses the property of water, and becomes solid: upon this principle we may ac- count for globules of air being found attached to the skin when a part of the body is immersed in water colder than itself; for when we immerse the whole body we increase the heat of the water, especially that next to the skin; and if we immerse only a part, as an arm, it being com- monly in a smaller quantity of water, the water immediately surround- ing it is also warmed. As a proof that it is the air from the water, and not from the surface of the body*, it matters not what the substance is that is immersed if it is but warmer than the water; for a piece of iron, heated to about 150°, immersed in water about 70°, wdll warm the water in contact with it so as to make it part with its air. This effect of heat is further proved by making another trial, with only this difference, that the iron be ten degrees colder than the water; in that case little or no air will be separated, and of course no bubbles observed. Tlie bubbles of air do not appear to arise entirely from the degree of warmth of the water, but also in some measure from a solid body being immersed in it, that seems to have a power of attracting the air, whose affinity to the water is now weakened by heat; for simply heating the water to the same degree will not separate the air, as we find that no bubbles are then produced. The power of attracting the air appears therefore in some sort to depend upon the solidity of the body immersed; at least bodies have a greater number of bubbles in proportion to their solidity; for upon making comparative experiments between iron, stone, wood, and cork, the air separated from the water upon the surface of the iron and stone is in considerable quantity ; that upon the wood very small, and scarcely any at all upon the cork. As these observations on the generation (or secretion) of air in cavities * “Count de Milly, in the Berlin Transactions for the year 1777, published experi- ments to show that there is an excretion of air, or, as it is termed, ‘an aerial transpi- ration,’ from the whole surface of the human body while it remains in warm water; but Dr. Pearson found, on repeating these experiments, that there was no appearance of aerial bubbles on the surface of the cuticle during bathing in warm water that had been previously boiled, so as to expel the air usually mixed and united to river and spring water. The human body, when immersed in the bath at Buxton, and kept at rest in it for some time, was covered with air-like bubbles; but these bubbles appeared in the same manner on any solid body whatever that was placed in it. It is therefore ! supposed that the attraction to the human body of the air, commonly suspended in i water, especially when heated to the temperature of a warm-water bath, has been mis- 1 taken for an excretion of air from the cuticle*”