AMPHIBIOUS BIPES OF ELLIS. 397 the posterior end bends a little to the right, where it terminates in the pylorus. The intestines pass back, making many turns ; at the poste- rior end they become pretty straight, forming what may be called the colon, or rectum, where they are a little larger, and run to the anus in a straight direction. At the beginning of this larger part of the intes- tinal tube there is no valvular structure. The spleen is a very small but long body ; its anterior end is attached to the upper surface of the stomach, and it is continued back along the left side of the mesentery, to which it adheres. The pancreas is a small body lying above the duodenum, and is attached also to the mesentery. The kidneys are situated in the upper and posterior part of the abdomen, having the rectum passing below and between them, as in the snake, &c. Below the rectum lies a long bag, like a bladder ; it adheres all along to the inside of the abdominal muscles, and its mouth opens into the rectum ; but whether it is the bladder of urine or not I cannot tell. On each side of the rectum, close to the lungs, there is a body, the posterior end of which rests upon the anterior end of the kidney: whether they are testicles or ovaria I cannot pretend to determine, but should imagine that they are either the one or the other “ [The ovaria in the siren are irregularly shaped elongated somewhat compressed bodies, becoming smaller at the two extremities. In a siren of two feet long they were each four inches in length, and half an inch broad, both situated at the lower and back part of the abdomen; the left about an inch nearer the head, having a smooth surface outwardly, and moulded on the inner surface to the convolutions of the intestine. The stroma ovarii was crowded with very numerous and minute ovisacs of a whitish colour, and was studded here and there with larger drops of a dark-coloured oil. The oviducts extend from the cloaca, in the form of broad, flattened, membranous canals, to near the anterior ends of the ovaria, where they alter their form and become rounded tubes, each becoming folded upon itself in broad close-set plaits, and terminating, without change of dimensions, in a longitudinal slit, which occupies part of the anterior surface of the last plait. The oviducts are attached by a broad fold of peritoneum to the dor- sal region of the abdomen.]