183 OF AIR-CELLS IN BIRDS. ostrich, and that the bat differed not in structure from animals that do not fly®; I was compelled, by so many contradictions to theory, to sup- pose that this singular mechanism might be intended for some other purpose. The next conjecture that offered was that these cells were to be con- sidered as an appendage to the lungs; and to this I was led by the ana- logy observable between birds and amphibious animals. For although both in the bird and amphibious tribe, as the snake, viper, and many others, the lungs are continued down through the whole belly, in form of two bags* **^, and therefore appear to be larger than the lungs in any other animal, yet in all of them the quantity of surface exposed to the air is much less than in the quadruped ; for the cells of the lungs in the bird are larger, and in the snake, &c. the upper part only can perform the office of respiration with any degree of effect, the lower having comparatively but few air-vessels. The air must pass through this upper part before it gets to the lower in inspiration, and must also re- pass in expiration, so that the respiratory surface has more air applied to it than what the lungs of themselves could contain. It is not how- ever to be supposed that the air can be made to pass to and fro in bones as in parts which admit of contraction and dilatation; the purpose answered by these bony cells must therefore be different, and perhaps they should be considered as reservoirs of air*. There is in fact a great * It is not to be supposed that the air in the cells in birds will be changed while fly- ing; only accumulated and retained; not in the least influenced by either inspiration or expiration. It might be asked. Where is the stricture upon the air when flying, so as * [This is not absolutely true ; for it is a remarkable fact,—and one which gives ad- ditional probability to the hypothesis of Borelli as to the final intention of the air-cells of birds in diminishing the specific gravity for the facilitation of flight,—that in one genus of bats {Nycteris of modern naturalists) remarkable for their lofty and continued flight, air-cells are continued beneath the integument, which are inflated from the cheek- pouches. The skin adheres to the body,” says Bell, in his excellent article Cheiroptera (Cyclop, of Anatomy, p. 599.), “ only at certain points, where it is connected by means of a loose cellular membrane: it is therefore susceptible of being raised from the surface, on the back as well as on the under parts. These large spaces are filled with air at the will of the animal, by means of large cheek-pouches, which are pierced at the bottom, and thus communicate with the subcutaneous spaces just mentioned. When the animal, therefore, wishes to inflate its skin, it inspires, closes the nostrils, and then, contracting the cavity of the chest, the air is forced through the openings in the cheek-pouches under the skin, whence it is prevented from returning by means of a true sphincter, with which those openings are furnished, and by large valves on the neck and back. By this curious mechanism the bat has the power of so completely blowing up the spaces under the skin as to give the idea of a little balloon, furnished with wings, a head, and feet.”] ** [In most snakes the abdominal air-bag is single, but a rudiment of the second lung exists.]