304 OF ABSORPTION BT VEINS. thought at first that the blood in the veins of this part was of a darker colour, but on comparing it carefully with that in the other veins it was manifestly the same. “ Experiment II. I opened a vein upon this part of the mesentery, and catched a table spoon full of its blood. I set it by to congeal and separate into its coagulum and serum. On the next day and the day after that I examined the colour of the serum, but it had not the least bluish cast. “ Experiment III. I fixed an injecting pipe in an artery of the me- sentery, where the intestine was filled with the blue starch, and tied up all communications both in the mesentery and intestine (as in Ani- mal First, Exper. I.), but left the corresponding vein free; then I in- jected warm milk by the artery till it returned by the vein, and con- tinued doing so till all the blood was washed away, and the vein re- turned a bright white milk. This was done with a view of seeing if the milk in the vein acquired any bluish cast, but there was no perceptible difference between the arterial and venal milk. " Experiment IV. After this I opened the vein with a lancet, and discharged most of the milk, then put a ligature upon both the artery and vein, and waited some time to see if they would fill, but they did not, nor did the remaining contents of the vein acquire the least bluish cast. Then I opened the gut at this part, but we could not observe any appearance of the milk having got into the cavity of the intestine. “ Experiment V. I filled another part of the intestine with milk. All that we observed after doing this was, that the lacteals became fuller, though not of a white colour, and the veins remained of the same com- plexion. “ Experiment VI. I fixed a pipe into a vein of the mesentery, and injected milk towards the intestine, to see if any would pass into the cavity of the gut; but presently innumerable extravasations happened, so that the experiment was fruitless. grave, has been in recent times urged against the experiments of Hunter, related in the text; but it is obvious that it cannot apply where care is taken to observe the colour or appearance of the empty or transparent lacteals before throwing the coloured fluid into the intestine, and to contrast that appearance of the lacteals wdth the colour which they present after the experiment has been performed. Now this precaution Hunter invariably adopted. With reference to the experiments on the lacteals recorded in the early numbers of the Philosophical Transactions, it may be observed that they diflfer from those of Hun- ter in the absence of obser\^ations and modifications which the latter physiologist com- bined with them, in order to test the share which the veins might take in the absorb- ing processes;—a question which does not appear to have occupied the attention of either Lister or Musgrave.]