20 ON THE GLANDS CALLED VESICUL^E SEMINALES. OBSERVATIONS ON THE GLANDS SITUATED BETWEEN THE RECTUM AND BLADDER, CALLED VESICULjE SE- MINALES. Those bags, in the male of some animals, which are situated between the bladder and rectum, and commonly called ‘ vesiculae seminales’, have been considered as reservoirs of the semen secreted by the testicles, in the same manner as the gall-bladder is supposed to be a reservoir of the bile. Physiologists must have been led to form this opinion from observing that in the human subject their ducts communicate with the vasa deferentia before their termination in the urethra. This com- munication was supposed to allow the semen, when not immediately wanted, to pass into the bags from the vasa deferentia by a species of regurgitation. But more accurate observations respecting their struc- ture and contents in the human subject, and on corresponding parts in other animals supposed to answer a similar purpose, joined to the cir- cumstance of their not being found in every class, induced me to con- clude that this opinion was erroneous. To throw as much light upon this subject .as possible I made a number of experiments, and availed myself of every opi)ortunity which offered of examining whatever could in any way elucidate the point; and, from what I have been able to collect, I think it will appear that they cannot be considered as reser- voirs of the semen. To proceed regularly with my investigation, I shall begin by com- paring the contents of these vesiculae with the semen as it is emitted from the penis of a living man. From which comparison it will appear that the two secretions are very different in their sensible properties of colour and smell; and although the semen which constitutes the first part of the emission is evidently different from the last, yet every part of it is unlike the mucus found in these vesiculee. The semen first discharged from the living body is of a bluish white colour, in consistence like cream, and similar to what is found in the vasa deferentia after death; while that which follows is somewhat like the common mucus of the nose, but less viscid. The semen becomes more fluid upon exposure to the air, particularly that first thrown out; which is the very reverse of what happens to secretions in general. The smell of the semen is mawkish and unpleasant, exactly resembling that of the farina of the Spanish chestnut; and to the taste, though at first insipid, it has so much pungency as, after some little time, to stimulate