49 OF AN EXTRAORDINARY PHEASANT. Having bought some pheasants from a dealer in birds, among which were several hens, I perceived, the year after, that one of the hens did not lay, and that she began to change her feathers. The year follow- ing she had nearly the plumage of the cock, but less brilliant, especially on the head; and it is more than probable that this was an old hen, nearly under circumstances similar to those before described. Lady Tynte had a favourite pied pea-hen which had produced chick- ens eight several times; having moulted when about eleven years old, the lady and family were astonished by her displaying the feathers pe- culiar to the other sex, and appeared like a pied peacock. In this pro- cess the tail, which became like that of the cock, first made its appear- ance after moulting; and in the following year, having moulted again, produced similar feathers. In the third year she did the same, and, in addition, had spurs resembling those of a cock. She never bred after this change in her plumage, and died in the following winter during the hard frost in the year 1775-6. This bird is now preserved in the mu- seum of the late Sir Ashton Lever*. From what has been related of these three birds, we may conclude, that this change is merely the effect of age, and obtains to a certain degree in every class of animals. We find something similar taking place even in the human species; for that increase of hair observable on the faces of many women in advanced life is an approach towards the beard, which is one of the most distinguishing secondary properties of man. Thus we see the sexes which, at an early period, had little to distin- guish them from each other, acquiring about the time of puberty secon- dary properties, which clearly characterize the male and female, the male at this time receding from the female, and assuming the secondary pro- perties of his sex. The female, at a much later time of life, when the powers of propa- gation cease, loses many of her peculiar properties, and may be said, except from mere structure of parts, to be of no sex, even receding from the original character of the animal, and approaching, in appearance, towards the male, or perhaps more properly towards the hermaphrodite. * It might be supposed that this bird was really a cock which had been substituted for the hen; but the following facts put this matter beyond a doubt. First, there was no other pied pea-fowl in the county. Secondly, the hen had nobs on her toes, which were the same after her change. Thirdly, she was as small after the change as before, therefore too small for a cock. Fourthly, she was a favourite bird, and was generally fed by the lady, and used to come for her food, which she still continued to do after the change in the feathers. VOL. IV. E