CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 233 tion, as it is the point of insertion which in some degree gives the use of the muscle. The origin of a muscle is in general the most fixed point, and the in- sertion the point where the greatest motion is produced; in different muscles, however, these points are subject to variations, and on different occasions in the same muscle, most of them being capable of acting from either end. Some of these variations may be considered as natural, and others as a force upon Nature. I shall call the variations natural where the effect is necessary in the natural movements of any part of the body, such as the extensors of the thigh, the glutsei, particularly the glutseus major, are commonly under- stood to produce; for these muscles, in the action of walking, when the leg is brought forwards or bent by the flexors, extend the body upon the thigh, by which action the body is brought forwards before and over the foot; also, after stooping or bending the body forwards, the glutseus muscle raises it; and these are as much the actions of this muscle as bringing the leg and thigh back upon the body. Some muscles are capable of performing similar inverted actions, al- though not commonly so employed as the recti abdominis, whose ordi- nary use is to bend the body upon the pelvis, but which sometimes, however, bend the pelvis upon the body. Those which I call a force upon the natural effect of the muscle, or an inversion of the fixed point, are where the moving point is by art, or something foreign to the body made the fixed one, as the hand; and the action of the muscles, instead of bringing the hand to the body, draws the body to the hand. In many animals, however, the effects of certain muscles are reci- procal, and these therefore cannot be said to have an origin and insertion, both the parts to which they are attached being equally moveable in themselves, and there being no power capable of keeping either the one or the other firm, as is very evident in animals where the two points of attachment, or parts to be moved, are similar or in pairs, as in the bi- valve shell, where the motion in the two valves is equal. The origins of muscles are in general more simple than their inser- . tions, nothing being wanted but a sufficient surface for attachment, which is generally required to be pretty extensive ; and for this purpose there are various contrivances, which have given rise to particular names, for the various kinds of origins. The origin of a muscle is generally from an immoveable part with re- spect to the action of that muscle, and commonly from the most firm or solid parts of the body, as bones, cartilages, periosteum, tendons, and fascia; some muscles, however, arise from soft parts, as the lingualis, orbicularis oris, &c. The insertions of muscles are less simple, for as the insertion is to