188 THE NERVES OF THE ORGAN OF SMELLING. the blood from that of the aorta; yet both arise from the same source, the heart. The course of the arteries is such as will convey the blood most conveniently, and therefore not necessarily uniform, it not being very material by what channel, provided the blood is conveyed to the part; though in particular instances certain purposes may be answered by a peculiarity in origin and distribution, as happens in the testicle of quadrupeds. This observation respecting arteries is likewise applicable to veins, and still more to the absorbent vessels; in which last, regularity is even less essential than in the veins. Whoever, therefore, discovers a new artery, vein, or lymphatic, adds little to the stock of physiological knowledge ; but he who discovers a new nerve, or furnishes a more accurate description of the distribution of those already known, affords us information in those points which are most likely to lead to an accurate knowledge of the nerv'ous system; for if we consider how various are the origins of the nerves, although all arise from the brain, and how different the circumstances attending them, we must suppose a variety of uses to arise out of every peculiarity of structure^. Indeed, if we reflect on the actions arising immediately from the will and affections of the mind, we must see that the origin, connexion, and distribution of the nerves ought to be exact, as there are parts whose sooner or a little later, for still it is the same branch. Such effects may arise more from a variety in the shape of the bodies they belong to, than any variety in the nerves themselves^. ^ [See the observations of Swan on the exceptions which occur in the uniformity of the anatomical conditions of the nervous system, in his excellent ‘ Demonstration of the Nerves of the Human Body,’ pp. 29, 30, 31.] [With reference to anatomical researches on the nervous system. Sir Charles Bell has observed: “ Whilst the nerves are supposed to proceed from one great centre, to have the same structure and functions, and to be all sensible, and all of them to carry what has been vaguely called nervous power, these discoveries of new nerves and ganglia are worse than useless ; they increase the difficulty, and repel inquiry.”—Expo- sition of the Natural System of the Nerves of the Human Body, 1824, p. 70. The different views entertained by Hunter on this subject doubtless arose from his belief that a variety of uses arose out of the various origins and other peculiarities of structure of the nerves. Hence he was led to trace the different nerves which are dis- tributed to a single organ to their different origins, and to infer that the organ thereby received different sensitive endowments. It is this principle, in a more extended ap- plication from the nerves to their component filaments, so far as they have different origins, which forms the basis of the present improved doctrine of the nervous system. “ The key to the natural system of the nerves,” says Bell, “ will be found in the simple proposition, that each filament or track of nervous matter has its peculiar endowment, independently of the others which are bound up along with it, and that it continues to have the same endowment throughout its wdiole length.”—Ibid.'\