PREFACE. XXVI * See preface to the Physiological Catalogue, vol. i. p. ii. he assigns the grounds for this hypothesis, and at the same time enunciates one of the most remarkable laws of aberrant form- ations. I should imagine,” he writes, that monsters were formed monsters from their very first formation, for this reason, that all supernumerary parts are joined to their similar parts, as a head to a head, &c. &c.” In proof of the important ge- neral principles, at a knowledge of which Hunter had arrived, I have elsewhere quoted this passage, together with the follow- ing remarkable one from Hunter’s descriptions of his drawings illustrative of the development of the chick. “ If we were ca- pable of following the progress of increase of the number of the parts of the most perfect animal, as they first formed in succession from the very first, to its state of full perfection, we should probably be able to compare it with some one of the in- complete animals themselves, of every order of animals in the creation, being at no stage different from some of those inferior orders ; or in other words, if we were to take a series of ani- mals from the more imperfect to the perfect, we should pro- bably find an imperfect animal corresponding with some stage of the most perfect.”* We may, I think, perceive, from the evident difficulty with which Hunter expresses the idea, that his mind was oppressed with both its novelty and vastness. Men’s thoughts require to be familiarized with propositions of such generality before their exact limits and full application can be appreciated. Sufficient, however, has been adduced to prove the tendency of Hunter’s labours, and that he possessed the highest qualifica- tions as an investigator of Nature; unwearied in induction, sa- gacious in grouping together analogous phaenomena, and ever striving to ascend from propositions of less to those of greater generality. Had the means and time been granted to Hunter to have made public the results of all his labours, or had his manu- scripts enunciating, or indicative of, so many general principles been fairly appreciated and given to the world, our teachers of anatomy would not now, after a lapse of half a century, have but begun to explain to their students those beautiful laws of animal development, for the knowledge of which they are in- debted to the labours of the professors in the noble schools of