AND (ECONOMY OF WHALES. 385 similar to what is found in the turtle and crocodile. There are neither puncta nor lachrymal duct, so that the secretion, whatever it be, is washed off into the water. The muscles which open the eyelids are very strong : they take their origin from the head, round the optic nerve, which in some requires their being very long, and are so broad as almost to make one eircular muscle round the whole of the interior straight muscles of the eye it- self. They may be divided into four;'a superior, an inferior, and one at each angle: as they pass outwards to the eyelids, they diverge and become broader, and are inserted into the inside of the eyelids almost equally all round. They may be termed the dilatores of the eyelids ; and, before they reach their insertion, give off the external straight muscles, which are small®, and inserted into the sclerotic coat before the transverse axis of the eye : these may be named the elevator, depressor, adductor, and abductor, and may be dissected away from the others as distinct muscles. Besides these four going from the muscles of the eyelid to the eye itself, there are two which are larger, and inclose the optic nerve with the plexus. As these pass outwards they become broad, may in some be divided into four, and are inserted into the scle- rotic coat, almost all round the eye, rather behind its transverse axis*’. The two oblique muscles are very long ; they pass through the mus- cles of the eyelids, are continued on to the globe of the eye, between the two sets of straight muscles, and at their insertions are very broad; a circumstance which gives great variation to the motion of the eye^. ^ [The word “ small” ishere used relatively to the palpebral muscles; for, compared with the size of the eyeball the recti muscles in the Cetacea exceed in bulk those of any other mammiferous animal.] [These shorter series of straight muscles correspond with the choanoid muscle or retractor oculi of other mammalia in which (man and the quadrumana excepted), it co-exists with a membrana nictitans, and is subservient to its motions by retracting the globe of the eye and displacing the adipose matter posterior to the eyeball, which then presses forward the third eyelid. In the true Cetacea where there is no third eyelid some other uses must be assigned for the retractor oculi; it may perhaps assist by retracting the eyeball, in closing the ordinary eyelids, which have not the advan- tage of an orbicularis muscle for that purpose. The retractor oculi is represented by four short muscles in the turtle and tortoise, where the third eyelid is present, but has a special muscle for nictitation.] ® [The superior oblique arises, as in other mammalia, from the posterior part of the orbit above the foramen opticum; it passes forwards on the external surface of the co- nical apertor palpebrarum, which it perforates, and a kind of pulley is formed for it by this muscle and the cellular substance beneath it, the superior oblique becoming at this bend partially tendinous, but with little diminution of size; it then goes to be inserted kito the sclerotica, at such a direction to the ball of the eye as to act as a rotator to it, ac- cording to the use assigned by Hunter to the oblique muscles in a previous memoir. The inferior obhque arises from the superior maxUlaiy bone at the inner side of the orbital space. Neither the direction of this or of ihe superior oblique in the whales enables them to act as the antagonists of the recti muscles.] VOL. IV. 2 c