367 AND CECONOMY OF WHALES. the circulation, and figure to ourselves that probably ten or fifteen gal- lons of blood are thrown out at one stroke, and moved with an immense velocity through a tube of a foot diameter, the whole idea fills the mind with wonder. The veins, I believe, have nothing particular in their structure, ex- cepting in parts requiring a peculiarity, as in the folds of the skin on the breast in the piked whale, where their elasticity was to be increased®. Of the Larynx, The larynx in most animals living on land is a compound organ, adapted both for respiration, deglutition, and sound, which last is pro- duced in the actions of respiration; but in this tribe the larynx I sup- pose is only adapted to respiration, as we do not know that they have any mode of producing sound It is composed of os hyoides, thyroid, cricoid, and two arytenoid car- tilages, with the epiglottis. It varies very much in structure and size, when compared in animals of different genera. These cartilages were much smaller in the bottle-nose of twenty-four feet long than in the piked whale of seventeen feet, while the os hyoides was much larger. In the bottle-nose the os hyoides is composed of three bones, besides two whose ends are attached to it, being placed above the os hyoides, making five in all. In the porpoise, piked, whale, &c. it is but one bone, slightly bent, having a broad thin process passing up, which is a little ^ [Hunter has previously noticed the great capacity of the veins; they are also re- markable for their number and the immense plexuses v'hich they form in different parts of the body, but above all for the almost total absence of valves. Tyson has given a figure of the extensive venous plexus situated on the membrane investing the psoas muscles {ibid., pi. l,fig. 2, H.), and these have recently occupied the attention of Breschet, loc. cit., and V. Baer {Acta Acad. Nat. Cur., vol. xvii. p. 1,1834.) The infe- rior and superior venaj cavae are not brought into communication by the vena azygos, as in other mammalia; such veins in the usual situation in the chest would have been subject to compression between the arterial plexuses and the lungs. The venae azygos are therefore represented by two venous trunks situated in the interior of the vertebral canal, where they receive the intercostal and lumbar veins, and finally communicate with the superior cava by means of a short single large trunk, which penetrates the parietes of the posterior and right side of the chest. The non-valvular structure of the veins in the Cetacea, and the pressure of the sea-water at the depths to which they retreat when harpooned, explain the profuse and deadly hemorrhage which follows a wound that in other mammalia would be by no means fatal.] ^ [My learned friend and colleague in the present work, Mr. T. BeU, considers the evidence to be strong, if not incontestable, in favour of the existence of a voice in the Cetacea. It is variously described as a bellow, a grunt, or a melancholy cry; of which he cites several instances in his beautiful work on British quadrupeds, pp. 460,475.]