293 OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING IN FISHES. Some time before I quitted my anatomical pursuits, in the year 1760* *, and went with the army to Belleisle, I had discovered this organ in fishes, and had the parts exposed and preserved in spirits. In some the canals were filled with coloured injection, which showed them to great advantage, and in others were so prepared as to fit them to be kept as dried preparations*. My researches, in that and in every other part of the animal oeconomy, have been continued ever since that time. I am still inclined to consider whatever is uncommon in the structure of this organ in fishes as only a link in the chain of varieties displayed in its formation in different animals, descending from the most perfect to the most imperfect, in a regular progression f. * I have injected these parts in other animals, both with wax and metals; which, the bone being afterwards corroded in spirit of sea-salt, make elegant casts of these canals. t The preparations to illustrate these facts have been, ever since, shown in my collection, to both the curious of this country and foreigners. In showing whatever was new, or supposed to be new, the ears of fishes w^ere always considered by me as one important article year 1778. He has described generally the ear of the eel, the cod, the pike, the caq), the garden {Cyprimis idus, Bio.), the flounder, and the perch ; but he errs in ascribing to certain holes in the cranium the office of a meatus auditorius externus, which they do not fulfil. The figures annexed to this memoir, Cuvier informs us, were mislaid and lost, and therefore they did not appear in the printed essay. The description of the ear of the ray was given by Geoffroy in a Memoir on the Ears of Reptiles, pre- sented in 1752, and printed in 1755.] * [Camper’s researches on this subject were made in the year 1761: they appeai-ed first in the Haerlem Memoirs for 1762. He afterwards sent a more detailed memoir on the same subject to the Academy of Sciences of Paris in 1767, which was printed in the ‘ Recueil des Savans Etrangers, t. vii.,’ in 1774. He describes in detail the organ of hearing of the ray, the cod, the pike, and the lophius, with figures in his style, i. e. somewhat vague. He added but little to that which Geoftroy had advanced, except that he denied too generally the external canal, and that he speaks of an organ which he terms tensor iursce, which seems only to be an appendage, or rather a hga- ment, more distinct in the pike than in most other fishes. In the year 1773, in the 17thvol. of the Novi Commentarii of St. Petersburgh, Kolreuter gave some very precise and detailed descriptions and figures of the ear, in two species of sturgeon, the common one {Acipenser Sturio, Linn.), and the huso {Acipenser Huso, Linn.). [ Monro described, better than any of his predecessors or successors, the external ear I of the Chondropterygii, in his Anatomy of Fishes, published in 1785. j Scarpa denies the external communication in the ray, which Hunter correctly de- 1 scribes in the present memoir.] [He here alludes to the series of other organs in his collection analogous to those of the ear; and it is interesting to observe these incidental evidences of the philoso- phical tendency in Hunter to \iew the varieties of structure, which his numerous dis- sections displayed to him, as modifications of one type, or a graduated and connected 1 ■ chain of varieties.] ! [See the Preparations in the Gallery of the Hunterian Museum, numbered from I 1560 to 1574 inclusive.]