•78 ACCOUNT OF A WOMAN WHO HAD The communication of the smallpox to the child in the womb may be supposed to happen in two ways; one by infection from the mother, as is supposed in the above case; the other, by the mother’s having ab- sorbed the smallpox matter from some other person, and the matter being carried to the child from the connexion between the two, which we may suppose done with or without first affecting the mother. Testimonies and opinions are various with respect to these two facts. Boerhaave seems to have been led by his experience to think that such infection was not communicable; for we find that he attended a lady, who having, in the sixth month of her pregnancy, had the confluent smallpox, brought forth at the regular period a child, who showed not the least vestige of his mother’s disease. His commentator, however. Van Swieten, supports a different opinion (see his Comment, vol. v.). He quotes a case from the Philosophical Transactions, vol. xxviii. No. 337, p. 165, of a woman who, having just gone through a mild sort of smallpox, was, by means of a strong dose of purging physic, thrown into a miscarriage, and brought forth a dead female child, whose whole body was covered with variolous pustules full of ripe matter: but this history is founded only on the relation of a midwife to a clergyman, and therefore not absolutely to be depended upon as accu- rately stated; however, it is more than probable that there was a case as described, and that there were really eruptions on the skin of the child similar to the smallpox. Van Swieten likewise mentions what Mauriceau relates of himself. This author testifies that he had often heard his father and mother say that the latter, when big with him, and very near her time of delivery, had a painful attendance on one of her children, who died of the small- pox on the seventh day of the eruption; and that on the day following the death of this child Mauriceau came into the world, bringing with him five or six true pustules of the smallpox. It does not appear, however, from this recital whether or not Mauri- ceau passed through life free from any posterior infection; but admit- ting that this eruption of Mauriceau’s was truly the smallpox, yet I should very much doubt his having caught it from the child who died of it: as it should seem that the pustules of Mauriceau were of the same date with those of the child who died. Van Swieten appeals to a more recent case, which had been reported to him by persons of great credit, and is recorded in the Philos. Trans., vol. xlvi. p. 235. A woman big with child, having herself long ago had the small- pox, very assiduously nursed a maidservant during the whole process of this disease. At the proper time she brought forth a healthy female child, in whose skin Dr. Watson asserted that he discovered evident