138 ON ANIMALS PRODUCING HEAT. a man’s hand may become so cold as to lose that sensation altogether, and change it for pain. Absolute heat and cold may be carried so far as even to alter the structure of the parts upon which the actions of life depend. As animals being subject to variations in the degrees of heat and cold from external applications are of course, in this respect, affected in some measure like inanimate matter; and therefore, as parts are elon- gated or recede from the common mass, these effects more readily take place; for instance, all projecting parts and extremities, more especially toes, fingers, noses, ears, combs of fowls, particularly of the cock, are more readily cooled, and are therefore most subject to be affected by cold. Animals are not only subject to an increase and decrease of heat, similar to inanimate matter, but the transition from one to the other (as far as they admit of it) is nearly as quick. I shall not, however, confine myself to sensation alone, as that is in some degree regulated by habit; for a habit of uniformity in the application of heat and cold to an animal body renders it more sensible of the smallest variation in either; while by the habit of variety it will become, in a proportional degree, less susceptible of all such sensations. This is proved every day, in cold weather, by people who are accustomed to clothe themselves warm. In them the least exposure to cold air, although the effect produced in the skin is perhaps not the hundredth part of a degree, immediately gives the sensation of cold, even through the thickest covering: those, on the contrary, who have been used to go thinly clothed, can bear the variation of some degrees without being sensible of it; of this the hands and feet afford an instance in point, exciting the sensation of cold when applied to another part of the body, without having before given to the mind an impression of cold existing in these parts themselves. The projecting parts and the extremities are those which admit of the greatest change in their degrees of heat and cold without materially affecting the animal or even its sensations. I find that by heat or cold externally applied to such parts, the thermometer may be made to rise or fall; but not in an equal proportion as when applied to inanimate matter. Nor are the living parts cooled or heated in the same propor- tion, as appears from the application of the thermometer to the skin; for the cuticle is to be considered as a dead covering, capable of receiv- ing greater degrees of heat and cold than the living parts underneath; and as it might be suspected that the whole of the variation was in this covering, to remove any such doubt I made the following experiments. Experiment I. I placed the ball of the thermometer under my tongue, where it was perfectly covered by all the surrounding parts ; and having kept it there for some minutes, I found that it rose to 97°; yet it rose no higher by being continued there. I then took several pieces of ice.