AND (ECONOMY OF WHALES. 369 Of the Lungs. The lungs are two oblong bodies, one on each side of the chest, and are not divided into smaller lobes, as in the human subject. They are of considerable length, but not so deep between the fore and back part as in the quadruped, from the heart being broad, flat, and of itself fill- ing up the fore part of the chest. They pass further down on the back part than in the quadruped, by which their size is increased, and rise higher up in the chest than the entrance of the vessels, coming to a point at the upper end. From the entrance of the vessels they are con- nected downwards, along their whole inner edge, by a strong attach- ment (in which there are in some lymphatic glands) to the posterior mediastinum. Tire lungs are extremely elastic in their substance, even so much so as to squeeze out any air that may be thrown into them, and to become almost at once a solid mass, having a good deal the ap- pearance, consistence, and feel of an ox’s spleen. The branches of the bronchiae which ramify into the lungs have not the cartilages flat, but rather rounded; a construction which admits of greater motion between each^. The pulmonary cells are smaller than in quadrupeds, which may make less air necessary, and they communicate with each other, which those of the quadruped do not; for by blowing into one branch of the trachea, not only the part to which it immediately goes, but the v/hole lungs are filled. As the ribs in this tribe do not completely make the cavity of the thorax, the diaphragm has not the same attachments as in the quadru- ped, but is connected forwards to the abdominal muscles, which are very strong, being a mixture of muscular and tendinous fibres. The position of the diaphragm is less transverse than in the quadruped, passing more obliquely backwards, and coming very low on the spine, and higher up before ; which makes the chest longest in the direction of the animal at the back, and gives room for the lungs to be continued along the spine. The parts immediately concerned in inspiration are extremely strong; the diaphragm remarkably so. The reason of this must at once appear ; it necessarily requiring great force to expand in a dense medium like water, especially too when the vacuity is to be filled with one which is rarer, and is to water a species of vacuum, the pressure being much * [The cartilaginous hoops of the bronchiae are continued to their extreme ramifica- tions. The pleura costalis is denser and stronger in the porpoise than serous mem- branes usually are.] 2 B VOL. IV.