97 OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. dined to suppose, from analogy, the last to be the case: animals in health seeming to have the power of secreting sugar; for we find it in the milk, and sometimes in the urine, in consequence of disease. Acid sometimes prevails in the stomach to so great a degree as to become a disease, attended with very disagreeable symptoms ; the stomach con- verting all substances which have a tendency to become acid into that form. To ascertain whether there was an acid naturally in the sto- mach the most satisfactory mode was to examine the contents before the birth, when the digestive organs are perfect, and when no acid could have been produced by disease, or anything that had been swallowed. Accordingly, in the slink-calf, near the full time, there was no acid found in the stomach, although the contents had the same coagulating powers with those of animals who have sucked. As we find stomachs possessed of a power of dissolving the whole substance of a bone, it is reasonable to suppose that its earth is destroyed by the acid in the stomach. The stomach appears not only to be capable of generating an acid,' but also to have the power of producing air : which last effect, I believe, arises from disease. It is not easy to account for the formation of this air; yet as the stomach is a reservoir for substances disposed to ferment, it might reasonably be supposed to arise from the food going into that process. But this, in my opinion, will not account for the vast quan- tity of air frequently thrown up from the stomach, even where food has not been swallowed for a considerable time, and where digestion ap- peared to have been completed. For we must conclude this process to have been completed, if the food was not found to have disagreed with either stomach or bowels, and that the stools were good. When the gout falls on the stomach the quantity of air thrown up is often im- mense, and the same thing may be observed in some cases commonly called nervous; yet the process of digestion will not account for this formation of air, as no air is to be found in healthy stomachs* * ; neither is it to be accounted for from a defect in digestion, as that would pro- bably be productive of worse-consequences. I am inclined to believe that the stomach has a power of forming air, or letting it loose, from the blood, by a kind of secretion. We cannot, however, bring any absolute proof of this taking place in the stomach, as it may in all cases be referred to a defect in digestion; but we have the bulb of a thermometer, that secretion is immediately poured out, and manifests the' usual acid properties. (Beaumont: “Experiments and Observations on the Gastric Juice, and on the Physiology of Digestion.”) * In all my experiments on digestion, in dogs, I have never been able to detect any air in the cavity of the stomach. VOL. IV. H