OBSERVxVTiONS ON BEES. 434 stance, in m3" examination of the working bee, I was at a loss to sa}’- what it was : I asked m3^self if it was new scales forming, and w’hether they cast the old, as the lobster, &c. does ? But it was to be found only- between the scales, on the lower side of the belly. On examining the bees through glass hives while the}" were climbing up the glass I could see that most of them had this substance, for it looked as if the lower or posterior edge of the scale was double, or that there w"ere double scales; but I perceived it was loose, not attached. Finding that the substance brought in on their legs was farina, intended, as appeared from every circumstance, to be the food of the maggot, and not to make wax, and not having yet perceived anything that could give me the least idea of wax, I conceived these scales might be it, at least I thought it necessary to investigate them. I therefore took several on the point of a needle, and held them to a candle, where they melted, and imme- diately formed themselves into a round globe ; upon which I no longer doubted but this was the w"ax, w"hich opinion was confirmed to me by not finding those scales but in the building season. In the bottom of the hive we see a good many of the scales lying loose, some pretty per- fect, others in pieces. I have endeavoured to catch them, either taking this matter out of themselves, from between the scales of the abdomen, or from one another, but never could satisfy myself in this respect; however I once caught a bee examining between the scales of the belly of another, but I could not find that it took anything from between. We very often see some of the bees wagging their belly, as if tickled, running round and to and fro for only a little w'ay, followed by one or two other bees, as if examining them. I conceived they were pro- bably shaking out the scales of wax, and that the others were ready upon the watch to catch them, but I could not absolutely determine what they did. It is with these scales that they form the cells called the comb, but perhaps not entirely, for I believe they mix farina with it; however, this only occasionally, when probably the secretion is not in great plenty, I have some reason to think that where no other substance is introduced the thickness of the scale is the same with that of the sides of the comb; if so, then a comb may be no more than a number of these united; but a great deal of the comb seems to be too thick for this, and, indeed, would appear to be a mixture similar to the covering of the chrysalis. The wax naturally is white, but w"hen melted from the comb at large it is yellow. I apprehended this might arise from its being stained with honey, the excrement of the maggots, and with the bee-bread. I steeped some white comb in honey, boiled some with farina as also with old comb, but I could not say that it was made yellower. Wax, by bleaching, is brought back to its natural