CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 267 CROONIAN LECTURE ON MUSCULAR MOTION, No. VI. For the Year 1782. [Read before the Royal Society June 13th, by Mr. John Hunter, F.R.S.] An inquiry how far, and in what instances, the density or firm- ness of a Muscle contributes to its strength. In comparative experiments respecting animals, where the actions of life are attempted to be imitated in the dead body, we should attend to every circumstance and see whether there is really any kind of simila- rity in the experiment. But, where life is absolutely necessary for the action, on one side, and the action is imitated only so far as regards the mechanical mode of performing it, the resemblance between the vital action and the experiment is in reality very remote. To suppose that the action of a muscle should be equal, more or less, with its mechanical strength when dead is absurd, because they bear no analogy. The action of a muscle is as unlike its mechanical resistance as the effects of the irritabib ty of a living body upon impression is like the mechanical effects of the same impression ; the mechanical effects being the same in the living as the dead. The action of a muscle is stronger than its mechanical resistance in the dead body; that is, its power of contraction is greater than the at- traction of the cohesion of its fibres. These facts can only be ascertained by experiments on the power in the living body, opposing them with the resistance in the dead ; but as a muscle is in very different states in contraction and relaxation, even in the living body, and as the experiment is opposing contraction to the state of relaxation, the experiment is not conclusive: it does not prove what it is meant to prove. The subject can and should be viewed in several lights. A muscle is first to be considered in two points of view ; the relaxed state, where it is only united by the common attraction of cohesion of that muscle, and is probably as mechanically strong in the dead as the living; but they may be considered in the contracted state both in the dead and the liv- ing, for although a muscle does not contract after death, yet it often contracts in the act of dying; and death does not produce a relaxation, therefore it is to be presumed that the position of the parts of the muscle