167 OF PERSONS APPARENTLY DROWNED. : dent proof of absolute death, since that arises from the stimulus imme- diately preceding death having taken place. But if the privation of life is produced by any of the modes above mentioned, which kill instan- taneously and universally, the stimulus which produces stiffness is not allowed time to act, and the muscles are all left in a relaxed state. Yet this state of relaxation must not, on that account, be always considered as a proof of life still remaining. A degree of flaccidity in the eyeballs, which produces glassiness, is a certain mark of death; but is, however, only a secondary mode of ascer- taining it in those instances where the body becomes stiff; but may be I the first mode where absolute death takes place instantaneously; and , putrefaction will be the second; while in the other cases putrefaction will be the third. I That I may more fully explain my ideas upon this subject, it will be ' necessary to state some propositions. First; that so long as the animal retains the susceptibility of impres- ! sion, though deprived of the action of life, it will, most probably, retain the power of action when impressed ; therefore the action may frequently be suspended, and yet recoverable ; but when the susceptibility of im- pression is destroyed, the action ceases to be recoverable. Secondly : it is necessary to mention, that I consider part of the living principle as i inherent in the blood*. Thirdly : that the stomach sympathizes with I every part of an animal, and that every part sympathizes with the sto- mach ; therefore, whatever acts upon the stomach as a cordial, or rouses its natural and healthy actions, and whatever affects it so as to produce debility, has an immediate effect upon every part of the body. The last proposition I have to make is, that every part of the body sympathizes with the mind; for whatever affects the mind, the body is affected in proportion. These sympathies are strongest with the vital parts; but besides these universal sympathies between the stomach, the mind, and all parts of the body, there are peculiar sympathies, of which the heart, sympathizing immediately with the lungs, is an instance. If anything is received into the lungs which is a poison to animal life, such as in- flammable air, volatile vitriolic acid, and many other well-known sub- stances, the motion of the heart immediately ceases, even much sooner than if the trachea had been tied; and, from experiments, it appears that * That the living principle is inherent in the blood is a doctrine which the nature of this account will not allow me to discuss; thus much, however, it may be proper to say, that it is founded on the result of many observations and experiments. But it may be thought necessary I should here give a definition of what I call the living principle : so far, then, as I have used the term, I mean to express that principle which preserves the body from dissolution with or without action, and is the cause of all its actions.