196 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. confined to animals ; most probably from the power in them being more conspicuous, which almost prevented its being taken notice of in any other substance whatever. Inquiries into nature have, however, become less confined, and experiments and observations have induced men to leave the beaten track of others, and take their observations from na- ture herself; by which means a self-moving power has been observed and universally allowed in vegetables. And this principle, upon investi- gation, appears now to be as much a property in vegetables as in animals ; and in such cases where the functions and uses are the same in both, it is perhaps as considerable in vegetables as animals. But where they are dissimilar in their actions, and the uses arising out of these actions arc also different, it is reasonable to suppose the quantity of action will vary; and such difference must frequently occur in both animals and vegetables. In animals a considerable part of this motion is called muscular; in vegetables it has not yet got a name. • The immediate cause of motion in all vegetables is most probably the same, and it is probably the same in all animals ; but how^ far they are the same in both classes has not yet been determined. But I think it will appear, in the investigation of this subject, that vegetables and animals have actions evidently common to both, and that the causes of these actions are apparently the same in both; and most probably there is not an action in the vegetable which does not correspond or belong to the animal, although the mode of action in the parts may not be the same, or muscular, in both. There appear, however, to be actions in animals which are peculiar to them; these make them more complicated, and in them another stimu- lus to action is superadded, evidently for that purpose All actions may be considered of two kinds,—immediate and se- condary. The first is an action of the part itself, having no relation to any- thing else; as action in a muscle, or elasticity in a spring. * [The actions here alluded to are the voluntary, which are consequent upon an act of sensation, and are the result of a determination or stimulus derived from the brain. The action in the muscle produced by this stimulus is, however, essentially the same as is produced by mechanical or chemical stimuli applied to the muscle out of the body, or as takes place in the muscle involuntarily as in sleep, or when an animal is stimulated while in a state of hybernation, or immediately after decapitation. Instead therefore of saying that animals have actions of the moving powers peculiar to themselves, it is more correct to express, with reference to the voluntary actions, that they have parts superadded, for the purpose of exciting the actions of the moving powers, which the vegetable has not, viz. the nerves. It is true that the actions of the moving powers of an animal, whether automatic or voluntary, are different from those which produce the motions of parts in vegetables, as explained in the notes pp. 200, 206; but the observations in the text refer only to the voluntary actions.]