489 FROM NEW SOUTH WALES. prominent, and large; the ears broad and thin ; its legs short, and its tail very long. Between the fore and hind legs, on each side, is placed a doubling of the skin of the side, which, when the legs are extended laterally, is as it were pulled out, forming a broad lateral wing or fin, and when the legs are made use of in walking, this skin, by its elasti- city, is drawn close to the side of the animal, and forms a kind of ridge, on which the hair has a peculiar appearance. In this respect it is very similar to the flying squirrel of America. It has five toes on each fore foot, with sharp nails. The hind-foot has also five toes, but differs considerably from the fore-foot; one of the toes may be called a thumb, having a broad nail, something like that of the monkey or opossum. What answers to the fore and middle toes are united in one common covering, and appear like one toe with two nails; this is somewhat similar to the kangaroo. The two other toes are in the common form; these four nails are sharp, like those on the fore foot. This formation of the foot is well calculated for holding any- thing while it is moving its body or its fore foot to other parts ; a pro- perty belonging (probably) to all animals which move from the hind parts, such as the monkey, mocock, mongoose, opossum, parrot, leech, &c. Its hair is very thick and long, making a very fine fur, especially on the back. It is of a dark brown grey on the upper part, a light white grey on the lower side of what may be termed the wing, and white on the under surface, from the neck to the parts adjacent to the anus. IVha Tapoua Roo'^. This animal, is about the size of a racoon, is of a dark grey colour on the back, becoming rather lighter on the sides, which terminates in a rich brown on the belly. The hair is of two kinds, a long hair and a kind of fur, and even the long hair at the roots is of the fur kind. The head is short, the eyes rather prominent; the ears broad, not peaked. The teeth resemble those of all the animals from that country I have hitherto seen. The incisors are not continued into the It is the lai'gest known species, and is the Petaurm Taguanoides of Desmarest, and the Didelphys Petaurus of Shaw. The original specimen, described and figured in White’s Appendix, is presented iu the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons.] “ [This species is now called the vulpine opossum, or vulpine phalanger {Phalangista Vulpina), and is the type of a genus of which the species are not confined to Australia, hut some were known, as inhabitants of the Indian isles, to the older naturalists. The dental characters are described in the text.]