98 OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. instances of air being found in other cavities, where no secondary cause can be assigned. I have been informed of persons who have had air in the uterus or vagina, without having been sensible of it but by its esca- ping from them without their being able to prevent it; and who, from this circumstance, have been kept in constant alarm lest it should make a noise in its passage, having no power to retard it as when it is contained in the rectum. This fact being so extraordinary made me somewhat incredulous, but rendered me more inquisitive, in the hope of being enabled to ascertain and account for it; and those of whom I have been led to inquire have always made the natural distinction be- tween air passing from the vagina and by the anus : that from the anus they feel and can retain, but that in the vagina they cannot; nor are they aware of it till it passes. A woman, whom I attended with the late Sir John Pringle, informed us of this fact, but mentioned it only as a disagreeable thing. I was anxious to determine if there were any communication between the vagina and rectum, and was allowed to ex- amine, but discovered nothing uncommon in the structure of these parts. She died some time after; and, being permitted to open the body, I found no disease either in the vagina or uterus. Since that time I have had opportunities of inquiring of a number of women concerning this circumstance, and by three or four have been informed of the same fact, with all the circumstances above mentioned. How far they are to be relied upon I will not pretend to determine. I have likewise found air in the cellular membrane in gunshot wounds, that had passed some way under the skin, without being able to account for its being there by any mechanical effect of the ball. That air is either formed from the blood, or let loose by some action of the vessels, both naturally and from disease, is an undeniable fact. We find air formed in some fishes, to answer natural purposes; for in those whose air-bladders do not communicate externally (many cf which there are) we must suppose it to have been formed there. We also find it in animals after death; and I have a piece of the intestine of a hog which has a number of air-bladders in it*. Mr. Cavendish was so kind as to examine this air, and he found it contained a little fixed air; and the remainder not at all inflammable, and almost completely phlo- gisticated.” I have often seen such vesicles on the edges of the lungs; but these may be supposed to have been a kind of aneurismal air-cells filled from the trachea, and are circumscribed and impervious, so that in the state we find them they have no communication with the exter- nal air. In one instance I have discovered air in an abscess, which could * Vide Plate XXXVII.