75 THE SMALLPOX DURING PREGNANCY. after her arrival in town she was seized with the smallpox, and had been under the care of Messrs. Hawkins and Grant, who have favoured me with the particulars here annexed. I called upon her in the afternoon; she complained of violent griping pains in her bowels, darting down to the pubes. On examining, I found the os tincae a little dilated, with other symptoms of approaching labour. I sent her an anodyne spermaceti emulsion, and desired to be called if her pains increased. I was sent for. The labour advanced very slowly; her pains were long and severe : she was delivered of a dead child with some difficulty. Observing an eruption all over the body of the child, and several of the pustules filled with matter, I examined them more particularly; and recollecting that Dr. Leake, in his Introductory Lecture to the Practice of Midwifery, had observed, that it might be necessary to inquire whether those adults who are said totally to escape the smallpox have not been previously affected with it in the womb, I sent a note to Dr. Leake, and likewise to Dr. Hunter, in hopes of ascertaining a fact hitherto much doubted. Dr. Leake came the same evening, and saw the child. Dr. Hunter came afterwards, with Mr. Cruickshank, and examined it; also Mr. John Hunter and Mr. Falconer; who all concurred with me, that the eruption on the child was the smallpox. Dr. Hunter thought the eruption so like the smallpox that he could hardly doubt; but said, that in all other cases of the same kind that he had met with, the child in utero had escaped the contagion. From Mr. Granfs Notes. The eruption appeared on Mrs. Ford in the evening of the 8th of De- cember, and she was delivered the 31st, that is, twenty-three days after the appearance of the eruptions. Reflections by Mr. John Hunter. The singularity of the above case, with all its circumstances, has in- clined me to consider it with some attention. There can be no doubt that the mother had the smallpox, and that the eruption began to appear on the 8th of December: also, that it went through its regular stages, and that on the 31st, viz. twenty- three days after the first appearance of the eruption, the woman was delivered of the child, who is the subject of this paper. Secondly, the distance of time when she had the smallpox before de- livery, joined with the stage of the disease in the child when born, which probably was about the sixth or seventh day of the eruption, viz. about