OF THE SITUATION OF THE TESTIS IN THE FCETUS. 17 safely apply a truss. I never have perceived that any inconvenience has arisen from waiting, and the danger, if there is any, may be in some degree avoided. I have always recommended moderate, not violent exercise. When the testicle has got some way below the ring, then the case is to be treated as an inguinal hernia, and a truss applied upon the ring; taking care that the testicle is not injured by it: but as this generally happens at too early a period for the patients themselves to be capable of attending to it, the surgeon who is employed should be very atten- tive, and those in whose immediate care they are, particularly watchful, that no inconvenience is produced by the truss. I have, however, known a rupture happen in a man thirty years old, where the testicle had not even got into the ring. In such a case I think a truss should be im- mediately applied; for if it is thought advisable to prevent the testicle from coming down, a truss is equally adapted for that purpose, as for hindering the descent of an intestine where there is an hernial sac. It sometimes happens that one of the testicles remains in the cavity of the abdomen through life, never acquiring the disposition to change its situation; therefore the person naturally concludes that he has only one testicle; and it can only be known that he had two by an exami- nation of these parts after death ; it is, however, possible that in some instances one may be wanting; but, if we are to reason from analogy, we must suppose this to be a very rare case; for it is a very common circumstance, that many quadrupeds have only one testicle in the scro- tum ; and in such as are killed for food, and from that circumstance come more particularly under observation, if this peculiarity has been noticed, we in general find the other testicle in the cavity of the ab- domen; though in some instances they are both found lying in that cavity. When one or both testicles remain through life in the belly, I believe that they are exceedingly imperfect, and probably incapable of perform- ing their natural functions, and that this imperfection prevents the dis- position for descent from taking place. That they are more defective than even those which are late in passing to the scrotum, is to be in- ferred from what is very evident in quadrupeds, the testicle that has reached the scrotum being in them considerably larger than the one which remains in the abdomen. It is probable that this peculiarity is a step towards the hermaphrodite, the testicle being seldom well formed. I have only seen one case in the human subject where both testicles continued in the abdomen; this proved an exception to the above ob- servation, since we are led to conclude that they were perfectly formed, VOL. IV. c