OBSERVATIONS ON SOME FOSSIL BONES. 473 first of these conjectures appears to me the most natural; but yet I am by no means convinced of its being the true one. Bones of this description are found in very different situations, which makes their present state more difficultly accounted for. Those in Ger- many are found in caves; the coast of Dalmatia is said to be almost wholly formed of them ; and we know that this is the case with a large portion of the rock of Gibraltar. If none were found in caves, but in solid masses covered with marl or limestone, it would then give the idea of their having been brought to- gether by some strange cause, as a convulsion in the earth, which threw these materials over them ; but this we can hardly form an idea of. Or if they had all been found in caves, we should have imagined these caves were places of retreat for such animals, and had been so for some thousands of years ; and if the bones were those of carnivorous animals and herbivorous, we might have supposed that the carnivorous had brought in many animals of a smaller size which they caught for food. And this, upon the first view, appears to have been the case with those which are the subject of this paper; yet when we consider that the bones are principally of carnivorous animals, we are confined to the supposi- tion of their being only places of retreat. If they had been brought together by any convulsion of the earth, they would have been mixed with the surrounding materials of the mountains, which does not appear to be the case ; for although some are found sticking in the sides of the caves incrusted in calcareous matter, this seems to have arisen from their situation in the cave. Such accumulation would have made them co- eval with the mountains themselves, which from the recent state of the bones I should very much doubt. The difference in the state of the bones shows that there was pro- bably a succession of them for a vast series of years; for if we consider the distance of time between the most perfect having been deposited, which w’e must suppose were the last, and the present time, we must consider it to be many thousand years. And if we calculate how long these must still remain to be as far decayed as some others are, it will require many thousand years, a sufficient time for a vast accumul^ition. From this mode of reasoning, therefore, it would appear that they were not brought here at once in a recent state. The animal earth, as it is called, at the bottom of these caves, is supposed to be produced by the rotting of the flesh, which is supposing the animals brought there with the flesh on ; but I do conceive that, if the caves had been stuffed with whole animals, the flesh could not have produced one tenth part of the earth; and, to account for such a quan-