PREFACE. XX and of the glans penis as being peculiar, and shows that as these peculiar sensations reside in particular nerves, so at what- ever part of the nerve the impression is made it always gives the same sensation as if affected at the common seat of the sen- sation of that peculiar nerve. In another place Hunter makes the ingenious remark that the nerves which are specially designed to receive peculiar impressions convey the ideas of such impressions to the brain, in whatever way they may be affected or stimulated. Thus he says, A mechanical impression on the retina produces an impression of light; a blow on the ear the sensation of sound*.” And later experiments have only extended this principle, by showing that whether the nerve be affected by mechanical, che- mical, or electrical stimuli, it conveys the same sensation. Much importance has been attributed to these observations, on the supposition that they were new, and I have been induced to dwell thus long upon Hunter’s contributions to the physi- ology of the nervous system, because in most of the recent works upon that subject he does not receive the credit which is due to him for having made them. The physiological discoveries of Bell, Majendie, Mayo, and Muller have resulted from the combination of experiment with a philosophical consideration of the anatomical peculiarities of the nervous system. It was the neglect of experinient in this department of physiology which rendered Hunter unable to account for the peculiarities which equally struck his mind as being connected in an intimate degree with the functions of the nerves. Had Hunter combined experiment with dissection when he traced the lateral branch of the nervus vagus in the cod, the eel, and the gymnotus, and wondered “ that a nerve should arise from the brain to be lost in common parts, while there was a ‘medulla spinalis giving nerves to the same parts,” this pro- bably would not have remained to him, as he expresses it, one of the inexplicable circumstances of the nervous system f.” Having been induced to dwell on the improved views which * Vol. i. p. 263, of the present edition, and Parkinson’s Hunterian Remi- niscences, p. 12. t Animal OEconomy, p. 419.