OF PERSONS APPARENTLY DROWNED. 174 it begins to move, I would advise lessening the application of air to the lungs, and enjoin those employed to observe with great attention when the muscles of respiration begin to act, that our endeavours may not in- terfere with their natural exertions, yet that we may be still ready to assist. I would by all means discourage bloodletting, which I think weakens the animal principle and life itself, consequently lessens both the powers and dispositions to action; and I would advise being care- ful not to call forth any disposition that might depress, by introducing things into the stomach which ordinarily create nausea; as that also will have a similar effect, except it can be carried so far as to excite the action of vomiting, by which the stomach could lelieve itself. It will be prudent likewise to avoid administering by the anus anything that may be likely to produce an evacuation that way, every such evacua- tion tending to lessen the animal powers. I have purposely avoided speaking of the fumes of tobacco, which always produce sickness or purging, according as they are applied. Whoever is appointed for the purpose of recovering drowned persons should have an assistant well acquainted with the methods intended to be made use of; that while the one is going on with the first and most simple methods, the other may be preparing what else may be proper, so that no time may be lost between the operations; and this is the more necessary, as the first means recommended will, in all cases, assist the second; and both together may often be attended with success, though each separately might have failed. A proper apparatus is also essentially necessary to the institution ; a description of which I here annex. First, a pair of bellows, so con- trived, with two separate cavities, that by expanding them, when ap- plied to the nostrils or mouth of a patient, one cavity may be filled with the common air, and the other with air sucked out from the lungs; and by shutting them again, the common air may be thrown into the lungs, and that which is sucked out of the lungs be discharged into the room. The pipe of these should be flexible, in length a foot or a foot and a half, and at least three eighths of an inch in width: as the artificial breathing may be continued by such means, while the other operations, except the application of the stimuli to the stomach, are going on; which cannot conveniently be done if the nozzle of the bellows be introduced into the nose. The end next the nose should be double, and applied to both nostrils. Secondly, a syringe, with a hollow bougie, or flexible catheter, of sufficient length to go into the stomach, and convey any stimulating matter into it, without affecting the lungs. Iffilrdly, a small pair of bellows, such as are commonly