133 ON ANIMALS PRODUCING HEAT. by the sinking of the vital powers : its feet were at last frozen; but we were not able to keep up the cold a sufficient time to freeze the whole animal, the hair being so bad a conductor of heat that the consumption was not more than the animal powers were capable of supporting*. Experiment III. was made with another dormouse ; and taught by the failure of the last experiment, I took care that the hair should not a second time be an obstruction to our success. Having, therefore, first made the animal wet all over, that its heat might be more rapidly car- ried off, it was put into a leaden vessel, and the whole placed in the cold mixture as before. The animal soon gave signs of feeling the cold, by repeated attempts to make its escape; and the breath and water evaporating from its body being soon frozen, appeared like a hoar-frost on the sides of the vessel and on its whiskers; but while the vigour of life lasted it defied the approach of the cold. However, from the hair being wet, and thereby rendered a good conductor, there was a much greater consumption of heat than in the former experiment, which has- tened on the diminution of the power of producing it. The animal dy- ing, soon became stiff, and, upon being thawed, was found quite dead. Experiment IV. A toad being put into a vessel with water, at such a depth as not to cover its mouth, was placed in the mixture cooled to between 10째 and 15째. The water froze so near to the body of the ani- mal as quite to inclose it, but without destroying life; yet, though not frozen, it hardly ever recovered the use of its limbs. Experiment V. was with a snail, which froze very soon, in a cold be- tween 10째 and 13째. These two last experiments were made in the winter, when the living powers of the animals selected for the trial are very weak; they might have resisted the cold more strongly in the summer. Why the animals mentioned in the above experiments died before they were frozen, while those which are exposed to the atmo- sphere in very cold climates do not, is a point I shall not pretend to de- termine, not knowing the difference between the effects of a natural and an artificial cold. It may be accounted for by supposing that the natural cold in climates in which animals are found frozen is so intense as to produce congelation immediately, before the powers of life are ex- hausted ; at least whether it is so or not is worthy of inquiry. It appears from the above experiments, first. That most probably the animals were deprived of life before they were frozen; secondly. That there was an exertion or expense of animal power in resisting the effects of cold, proportioned to the necessity; thirdly. That this exertion was * These experiments were made in presence of Dr. George Fordyce and Dr. Erwin, teacher of Chemistry at Glasgow, the latter of whom came in accidentally in the middle of our operations.