61 ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE PLACENTA. I first raised, with great care, a part of the uterus from the irregular mass, and in doing this observed regular pieces of wax passing obliquely between it and the uterus, which broke off, leaving part attached to that mass; and on attentively examining the portions towards the ute- rus, they plainly appeared to be a continuation of the veins passing from it to this substance, which proved to be placenta. I likewise observed other vessels, about the size of a crow-quill, pass- ing in the same manner, although not so obliquely; these also broke upon separating the placenta and uterus, leaving a small portion on the surface of the placenta; and on examination they were discovered to be continuations of the arteries of the uterus. My next step was to trace these vessels into the substance of what appeared placenta, which was first attempted in a vein; but that soon lost the regularity of a vessel, by terminating at once upon the surface of the placenta in a very fine spongy substance, the interstices of which were filled with the yellow injected matter. This termination being new, I repeated the same kind of examination on other veins, which always led me to the same termi- nations, never entering the substance of the placenta in the form of a vessel. I then examined the arteries, tracing them in the same man- ner towards the placenta, and found that, having made a twist, or close spiral turn upon themselves, they were lost on its surface. On a more attentive view, I perceived that they terminated in the same way as the veins; for opposite to the mouth of the artery the spongy substance of the placenta was readily distinguished with the red injection intermixed. Upon cutting into the placenta I discovered, in many places of its substance, yellow injection, in others red, and in many others these two colours mixed. The substance of the placenta, now filled with in- jection, had nothing of the vascular appearance, nor that of extravasa- tion, but had a regularity in its form which showed it to be naturally of a cellular structure, fitted to be a reservoir for blood. I perceived, likewise, that the red injection of the arteries (which had been first injected,) had passed out of the substance of the placenta into some of the veins leading from the placenta to the uterus, mixing itself with the yellow injection; and that the spongy chorion, called the de- arise,) I may probably not be able to remove; but I hope it will also be seen that I myself have given rise to it; believing, if I had been so inclined, that I might have sup- pressed Dr. MacKenzie’s name altogether without ever running the hazard of being detected. I was indeed so tenacious of my claim to the discovery, that I wrote this account in Dr. MacKenzie’s lifetime, with a design to publish it; and often commu- nicated my intentions to Dr. George Fordyce, who I knew was very intimate with the Doctor, in consequence of both teaching in the same place, and making many experi- ments together; therefore he is a kind of collateral witness, that what I now publish is the same account which I gave in Dr. MacKenzie’s lifetime.