115 OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. Spallanzani made some experiments to prove that digestion is carried on after death ; but they arc not so conducted as to correspond with the appearances met with in the dead body where that process has taken place, and the coats of the stomach itself have been in part digested. An experiment, although it may be very w'ell and accurately made so far as the experiment goes, if a close connexion is not preserved with the purpose for which it was made, the conclusions to be drawn from it cannot correspond with the intention. This is exactly the case with the experiments of Spallanzani, which, although they prove that meat was digested in the stomach after the animal was killed (which no one doubted), yet are not at all calculated to show that the stomach itself may be digested. In fact, the mode in which they were managed rather tended to prevent that effect from taking place, for the gastric juice, by having substances introduced on which it could act, was less likely to affect the coats of the stomach. That the digestion w^as not carried on merely by the gastric juice secreted before the animal was apparently dead, is evident, from his own account, some of the food which had been introduced and digested being found in the duodenum, a thing that could not have happened if a cessation of the actions of life in the involuntary parts had taken place when visible life terminated. There had been an action, and most probably a secretion, in the stomach. The only ex- periment that can be made with any probability of a decided result, is to kill the animal w^hile the stomach is empty, and observe what after- wards takes place. There are few stomachs that do not show, when examined after death, some of the inner villous coat destroyed, which may have been done by the gastric juice in the ducts of the glands which secrete it. Dr. Stevens, in an inaugural dissertation on this subject, published at Edinburgh 1777, gives a number of experiments, some of which are well devised, to ascertain the substances that are easiest of digestion, a thing in fact more wanted than the cause of that process; but many of his experiments, more especially those on ruminating animals, were not made with sufficient accuracy. How the chopped hay and potherbs came to be so much changed in the first stomach of a ruminating animal I cannot conceive, as I have reason to believe it has not the least power ! of digesting, and should doubt very much that hay was capable of being wholly digested in any stomach. His exj)eriment made on substances out of the body proves that the gastric juice is not able in all cases to prevent the vinous and acetous fermentation in vegetables, and is a cir- , cumstance which I believe often takes place in the living body when the stomach is weak. He seems to be in some apprehension for the safety of the stomach itself, from the action of so powerful a solvent as the I 2