102 OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. seemed to have a connexion with the present inquiry, I thought they might properly enough be introduced here; but I shall content myself with having mentioned the circumstance, and pursue the subject of di- gestion. To determine with absolute certainty in what particular portion of the canal this important process of digestion is performed, is perhaps impossible; but there is the greatest reason to believe that it is princi- pally carried on in the stomach, with a little variation in different ani- mals. We may venture to affirm that it does not at all take place in the long and contracted oesophagus of the quadruped, the secretion of that part being a slimy mucus, possessed of no power similar to that of the gastric juice, but only intended to facilitate the passage of the food into the stomach. Neither has the mucus secreted in certain parts of the oesophagus of birds, as in the crop of those which have one, any digestive power; while, on the contrary, we find the lower end, which is extremely glan- dular, to be capable of secreting a juice with all the properties of the gastric ; and that passing into the cavity of the stomach becomes a sub- stitute in this class of animals for the deficiency of the secretion of the stomach itself, which in some is lined with a horny substance, and in others with a cuticle. Even in birds the seat of digestion is chiefly in the stomach, the juice secreted in the lower part of the oesophagus pass- ing into that cavity; and the mucus secreted by the other parts of the oesophagus, as in the croj) of those which have one, has no such power. But if any digestible substance should be retained in the oesophagus, as may happen in many of those which swallow whole animals, digestion may even go on in its inferior portion. In the gull and heron, which take down snakes and fish entire, the tails may remain in the oesopha- gus till the head is digested in the stomach; and in such cases the tail itself may be acted upon in that situation. As a further proof that digestion is carried on principally in the sto- mach, let us observe what happens to the yolk of an egg in the bird newly hatched. The yolk is not in the least consumed in the time of incubation, but appears to be reserved for the nourishment or the chick between the time of hatching, and its either being supplied with food by its parents, or being able to procure it for itself; for we find, that although the yolk passes into the gut at some distance from the stomach, yet it is carried up to the stomach to be digested; and I have even seen it in the crop, being retained there till wanted. In those animals whose stomach consists of several cavities, the pre- cise place where digestion is carried on has not been ascertained. I think, however, that in the ruminating class, in which it has four cavities, it