ON ANIMALS PRODUCING HEAT. 144 suspended by cold, that appears to produce its effect by acting in a cer- tain degree as a sedative, in consequence of which the animal faculties are proportionably weakened, though they still retain, even under such circumstances, the power of carrying on all the functions of life. Be- yond this point cold seems to act as a stimulant, and rouses the animal powers to action for self-preservation. It is more than probable that most animals are in this predicament, and that there is a degree of cold corresponding with every particular order of animals, by which, when applied, the voluntary actions must be suspended. When a man is asleep he is colder than when awake; and I find in general that the difference is about one degree and a half; sometimes less. But this difference in the degree of cold between sleeping and waking is not a cause of sleep, but an effect; for many diseases produce a much greater degree of cold in the animal without giving the least tendency to sleep; therefore the inactivity of animals from cold must be different from sleep. Besides, all the operations of perfect life, as digestion, sensation, &c., are going on in the time of natural sleep, at least in the perfect animals ; but none of these operations are performed in the torpid state of animals^. To see if the result of these experiments upon dormice was peculiar to that species, I wished to repeat the same experiments upon common mice, for which purpose, in ^ [Some recent experiments of Dr. Marshall Hall confirm the accuracy of the di- stinction here drawn between sleep and torpidity, and also show that the ordinary sleep of hybernating warm-blooded animals differs from that of non-hybernating species, by inducing a more impaired state of the respiration, and a diminution of the power of evolving of heat. Although consciousness or sensibility be lost, auto- matic susceptibility of impressions is remarkably perfect during torpidity. Dr. Hall states that the slightest touch applied to one of the spines of the torpid hedgehog immediately rouses it to draw a deep sonorous inspiration, which is its character- istic response to such disturbance while in that state. The merest shake induces few respirations in the hybernating bat. (Phil. Trans., 1832, p. 15.) So also with respect to circulation, this vital opei-ation appears to be performed uninterruptedly, though slowly, during hybernation. M. Prunelle {Annales du Museum, tom. xviii. p. 28.) found that the pulsations of the heart of a bat, which, while it is awake and active amount to 200 in a minute, are reduced to 50 or 55 when it is torpid. Dr. M. Hall, who succeeded, by an ingenious contrivance, in subjecting the wing of a torpid bat to microscopical examination, found the circulation to be slow in the minute arteries and veins; but the beat of the heart was regular, and generally about twenty- eight times in a minute. {Ihid. p. 17.) The blood which is thus circulated is venous, the respiration being nearly, if not totally, suspended ; and its propulsion in this state is explained on the augmented irritability of the muscular system, which is manifested by the double heart of the torpid mammal being stimulated to contract by carbonized blood, like the heart of the cold-blooded and slow-breathing batrachian reptile.]