465 OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. little to do with the oeconomy of a year, but include the whole of the life of this insect, or at least its hive. Of the Life of the Bee, I have observed that the life of the male is only one summer, or rather a month or two ; and this we know from there being none in the winter, otherwise their age could not be ascertained, as it is impossible to learn the age of either the queen or labourers. Some suppose that it is the young bees which swarm ; and most probably it is so : but I think it is probable also, that a certain number of young ones may be retained to keep up the stock, as we must suppose that many of the old ones are, from accidents of various kinds, lost to the hive ; and we could conceive, that a hive three or four years old might not have an original bee in it, although a bee might live twice that time. But there must be a period for a bee to live; and if I were to judge from analogy, I should say that a bee’s natural life is limited to a certain number of seasons; viz. one bee does not live one year, another two, another three, &c. I even conceive that no individual insect of any species lives one month longer than the others of the same species. I believe this is the case with all insects; but the age of either a labourer or a queen may never be discovered. One might suppose that the life of a bee, and the time a hive can possibly last, would be nearly equal: although this is not absolutely necessary, because they can produce a succession, which they probably do ; for I am very ready to imagine, that after the first brood in the season, all the last winter bees die, and the hive is occupied with this first brood ; and that they breed the first swarm, or that the old breed the whole of this season’s breeding, and then die, and those that continue through the winter are the young, and if so, then they follow the same course with their progenitors. The comb of a hive may be said to be the furniture and storehouse of the bees, which by use wear out; and from the description I have given, it will appear that the comb in time will be rendered unfit for use. I observed that they did not clean out the excrement of the mag- got, and that the maggot, before it moved into the chrysalis state, lined the cell with a silk, similar to many other insects. It lines the whole cell, top, sides, and bottom; the two last are permanent; and at the bottom it covers with this lining its own excrement*. Why the bee maggot is formed to do this is probably because honey afterwards is to be put into the cell; so that the honey is laid into this last silken bag. * This neither the wasp nor the hornet do, although they do not clean out the ex- crement of their maggots. 2 H 1 VOL. IV.