OF THE FREE-MARTIN. 39 other a female, they may both have the organs of generation perfectly formed. But when I speak of those which are not twins, I shall call them hermaphrodites : the only circumstance worth our notice being a singularity in the mode of production of the Free-martin, and its being, as far as I yet know, peculiar to black cattle. This calf has all the external marks of a cow-calf, similar to what was mentioned in the unnatural hermaphrodite, viz. the teats and the external female parts called by farmers the bearing; and when they are preserved, by those who know the above fact, it is not for propagation, but for all the purposes of an ox or spayed heifer, viz. to yoke with the oxen and to fatten for the table *. It is known that they do not breed; they do not show the least in- clination of the bull, nor does the bull ever take the least notice of themf. They very much resemble, in form, the ox or spayed heifer, being considerably larger than either the bull or the cow, having the horns very similar to the horns of an ox. The bellow of the free-martin is similar to that of an ox, having more resemblance to that of the cow than of the bull. Free-martins are very much disposed to grow fat with good food. The flesh, like that of the ox or spayed heifer, is generally much finer in the fibre than either the bull or cow, is supposed to exceed that of the ox and heifer in delicacy of flavour, and bears a higher price at market. However, it seems that this is not universal, for I was lately informed by Charles Palmer, Esq., of Luckley in Berkshire, that a free-martin having been killed in his neighbourhood, from the general idea of its being better meat than common, every neighbour bespoke a piece, which turned out nearly as bad as bull-beef; worse, at least, than that of a cow. It is probable that circumstance might arise from this animal having more the properties of a bull than the cow, as we shall see hereafter that they are sometimes more the one than the other J. Although what I have advanced with respect to the production of * I need hardly observe here, that if a cow has twins, and they are both bull-calves, that they are in every respect perfect bulls; or if they are both cow-calves, they are perfect cows. f Vide Leslie on Husbandry, pp. 98, 99. J The Romans called the bull, taurus; they, however, talked of taurae in the femi- nine gender. And Stephen observes, that it was thought the Romans meant by taurae, barren cows, and called them by this name because they did not conceive. He also quotes a passage from Columella, lib. vi. cap. 22, “ and like the taurae, which occupy the place of fertile cows, should be rejected, or sent away.” He likewise quotes Varro, De Re Rustica, lib. ii. cap. 5, “ The cow which is barren is called taura.” From which we may reasonably conjecture that the Romans had not the idea of the circumstances of their production.