210 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. The modes of stimulating a muscle will be different according to the nature of the animal or of the muscle. In the more simple animals they will be few, increasing as the animal is more complicated. The first kind of stimulus is that common to all animals and vege- tables, wdiich regulates the internal machine, producing growth, pre- paring the parts of generation, &c. &c. The second is the internal stimulus, wdiich respects external matter for the support and continuance of the first, as that producing breath- ing, hunger, the desire of propagating the species; all which are com- mon to vegetables as well as animals, and require the assistance of a third kind to complete the action. Vegetables are supposed with great reason to have an action analo- gous to breathing, for the same kind of air which kills animals which do breathe, certainly kills vegetables also^. Vegetables imbibe nourish- ment, which action arises from the same stimulus as in animals. They also require the stimulus of certain operations to be performed upon them by external matter to enable them to propagate. This external matter is either some other part of the same plant, as in the Marchan- tia polymorphia calyce decemfido, which has the filaments almost con- stantly in motion striking the antheree^. The filaments of the flosculac of the thistle produce the same effect, or it is done by some foreign stimulus, as the wind, driving the pollen of the male plants against the germina of females*. Most animals perform these actions them- selves, yet in both animals and vegetables a similar stimulus is necessary. The third kind of stimulus is from external or extraneous matter immediately applied to the part, which is also common to animals and vegetables. The fourth kind of stimulus arises from the nerves, which we may reckon twofold ; one in consequence of the nerves being impressed by external matter, ^he other from their being impressed by the brain, or sensoriiim. This is peculiar to animals, many of them receiving intelligence from without, which becomes the regulator of their actions towards that * The antherae of vegetables require some motion to make them burst; some have not the power of producing this motion, but if the power is given they burst immedi- ately. A blast of wind is often necessary, arid in such plants propagation does not go on well in a calm place. * [As azote, hydrogen, or any gas deprived of carbon and oxygen ; for though vege- tables in health and sunshine give out oxygen, they absorb that gas, and emit carbon, but in less proportion, durirrg the night.] ’’ [In the barberry the filaments supporting the mature anthers, when touched, bend towards the germen. In the tiger-lily the female part of the flower is endowed with irrital)ility, and the style bends first to one stamen, then to another.]