470 OBSERVATIONS ON SOME FOSSIL BONES. OBSERVATIONS ON THE FOSSIL BONES PRESENTED TO THE ROYAL SOCIETY BY HIS MOST SERENE HIGHNESS THE MARGRAVE OF ANSPACH, &c. By the late John Hunter, Esq., F.R.S. [Communicated by Everard Home, Esq., F.R.S.* **.] The bones which are the subject of the present paper are to be con- sidered more in the light of incrusted bodies than extraneous fossils, since * [From the Philosophical Transactions, vol. kxxiv.; read May 8th, 1794. The following description, by the Margrave of Anspach, of the caves from which the fossils described in the text were taken, precedes the original memoir. “ A ridge of primaeval mountains runs almost through Germany, in a direction nearly from west to east; the Hartz, the mountains of Thuringia, the Fichtelberg in Fran- conia, are different parts of it, which in their further extent constitute the Riesenberg, and join the Carpathian mountains. The highest parts of this ridge are granite, and are flanked by alluvial and stratified mountains, consisting chiefly of limestone, marl, and sandstone; such at least is the tract of hills in which the caves to be spoken of are situated; and over these hills the main road leads from Bayreuth to Erlang, or Nurenberg. Half-way to this town lies Streitburg, where there is a post, and but three or four English miles distant from thence are the caves mentioned, near Gailen- reuth and Klausstein, two small villages, insignificant in themselves, but become famous for the discoveries made in their neighbourhood. “ The tract of hills is there broken off by many small and narrow valleys, confined mostly by steep and high rocks, here and there overhanging, and threatening, as it were, to fall and crush all beneath; and everywhere thereabouts are to be met with objects which suggest the idea of their being evident vestiges of some general and mighty catastrophe which happened in the primaeval times of the globe. “ The strata of these hiUs consist chiefly of limestone of various colour and texture, or of marl and sandstones. The tract of limestone hills abounds with petrifactions of various kinds. “ The main entrance to the caves at Gailenreuth opens near the summit of a lime- stone lull towards the east. An arch, near seven feet high, leads into a kind of ante- chamber, eighty feet in length, and three hundred feet in circumference, which con- stitutes the vestibule of four other caves. This antechamber is lofty and airy, but has no light except what enters by its open arch; its bottom is level, and covered with black mould, although the common soil of the environs is loam and marl. “ By several circumstances, it appears that it has been made use of in turbulent times as a place of refuge. From this vestibule, or first cave, a dark and narrow alley opens in the corner at the south end, and leads into the second cave, which is about sixty feet long, eighteen high, and forty broad. Its sides and roof are covered, in a wild and rough manner, vrith stalactites, columns of wliich are hanging from the roof, others rising from tlie bottom, meeting the first in many whimsical shapes. ** The air of this cave, as well as of all the rest, is always cool, and has, even in the