40 OF THE FREE-MARTIN. free-martins be in general true, yet, by the assistance of Benjamin Way, Esq., of Denham, near Uxbridge, who knew my anxiety to ascertain this point, I was lately furnished with an instance which proves that it does not invariably hold good. One of his cows having produced twins, which were to appearance male and female, upon a supposition that the cow-calf was a free- martin, he obligingly offered either to give it me, or to keep it till it grew up, that we might determine the fact; as I conceived it to be a free-martin, and was to have the liberty of examining it after death, I desired that he would keep it; but, unfortunately, it died at about a month old. Upon examining the organs of generation, they appeared to be those of the female, and perfectly formed; but to make this more certain, I procured those of a common cow-calf, and comparing them together, found them exactly alike. This made us regret that the ani- mal had not lived to an age that might have determined if it was capable of breeding; for the construction of the parts being to appearance per- fect, is not sufficient of itself to stamp it a true or perfect female; as I can suppose that the parts being perfectly formed, but without the power of propagation, may constitute the most simple kind of hermaphrodite. It is, however, most probable that this was a perfect female, which is an exception to the common rule; and I have been informed there are in- stances of such twins breeding^. If there are such deviations, as of twins being perfect male and female, why should there not be, on the other hand, an hermaphrodite produced singly, as in other animals ? I had the examination of one which seemed, upon the strictest inquiry, to have been a single calf; and I am the more inclined to think this true, from having found a number of hermaphrodites among black cattle, without the circumstances of their birth being ascertained. Hermaphrodites are to be met with in sheep; but, from the account given of them, I should suppose that they are not free-martins. I have seen several which were supposed to be hermaphrodites, but which were imperfect males, having the penis terminating in the perinseum, the orifice of which appeared like the bearing in the female. Such are not naturally stimulated to put themselves in the position of the female when they void their urine, so that when it passes the surrounding parts » [An instance of this nature is recorded in the fifth volume of Loudon’s Magazine of Natural History, p. 765. “ Jos. Holroyd, Esq., of Withers, near Leeds, had a cow which calved twins, a bull-calf and a cow-calf. As popular opinion was against the cow-calf breed- ing, it being considered a free-martin, Mr. Holroyd was determined to make an ex- periment of them, and reared them together. They copulated, and in due time the heifer brought forth a bull-calf, and she regularly had calves for six or seven years after- wards.”]