378 OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE Of the Setise of Hearhtg, The ear is constructed much upon the same principle as in the qua- druped ; but as it differs in several respects, which it is necessary to particularize, to convey a perfect idea of it the whole should be de- scribed. As this would exceed the limits of this paper, I shall con- tent myself with a general description, taking notice of those material points in which it differs from that of the quadruped. This organ consists of the same parts as in the quadruped; an ex- ternal opening, with a membrana tympaui, an Eustachian tube, a tym- panum with its processes, and the small bones^. There is no external projection forming a funnel, but merely an external opening. We can easily assign a reason why there should be no projecting ear, as it would interfere with progressive motion; but the reason why it is not formed as in birds, is not so evident; whether the percussions of water could be collected into one [toint as air, I cannot say. The tympanum is constructed with irregularities, so much like those of an external ear, that I could suppose it to have a similar effect. The external opening begins by a small hole, scarcely perceptible, situated on the side of tlie head a little behind the eye^. It is much longer than in other animals, in consequence of the size of the head being so much increased beyond the cavity that contains the brain. It passes in a serj^entine course, at first horizontally, then downwards, and afterwards horizontally again, to the membrana tympani, where it terminates. In its whole length it is composed of different cartilages, which are irregular and uniteM together by cellular membrane, so as to admit of motion, and probably of lengthening or shortening, as the animal is more or less fat. The bony part of the organ is not so much inclosed in the bones of from which it quickly expands into a body of about one and a half inch in diameter, having an upper, middle, and lower protuberance separated by sinuosities ; but the bone is not a convoluted plate, but solid, or having its substance of the same cellular structure as the surrounding diploe. The inferior turbinated process is a simple elliptic protuberance, about one inch in length and half an inch in width. The olfactory nerves in the Bal<Eiwptera are somewhat larger than in the human subjeet; they are of a pulpy texture, yet readily divisible into fasciculi, and terminate in a small bulb which rests on the cribriform plate. Treviranus states that olfactory nerves, but of very minute size, do exist in the porpoise ; and V. Baer describes them as being one sixth of a line in diameter in the Belphinus Delphis^ * [The internal ear or labyrinth, which Hunter afterwards describes as ‘ the immediate organ,’ seems to have been accidentally omitted in the above enumeration.] ** [In the full-grown spermaceti whale Mr. F. D. Bennett found the aperture of the meatus auditorius to form a narrow longituflinal fissure, one inch in lengtli; it ad- mitted with difficulty the extremity of the index finger.]