ON THE HEAT OF VEGETABLES. 158 heat proper to each species, and the age of each individual. It may also perhaps depend, in some degree, on other circumstances not hitherto observed; for in Experiment II. the old shoot did not lose its powers, while that which was young or growing did; and in Experiments II. and III. we found that the young growing shoot of the fir was with great difficulty frozen at 15®, while a bean-leaf was easily frozen at 22®; and in Experiment V. the young shoot of the fir thawed the ice at 28® much faster than the leaf of the bean. Sixthly, it is probably by means of this principle that vegetables are adapted to different climates. Se- venthly, that suspension of the functions of vegetable life, which takes place during the winter season, is probably owing to their being sus- ceptible of such a great variation of internal temperature. Eighthly, the roots of vegetables are capable of resisting cold more than the stem or leaf; therefore, though the stem be killed by cold, the root may be preserved, as daily experience evinces. The texture of vegetables alters very much by the loss of life, especially those which are watery and young; from being brittle and crisp, they become tough and flexible. The leaf of a bean when in full health is thick and mossy, repels water as if greasy, and will often break before it is considerably bent; but if it is killed slowly by cold, it will lose all these properties, becoming then pliable and flaccid : deprived of its power of repelling water, it is easily made wet, and appears like boiled greens. If killed quickly by being frozen immediately, it will remain in the same state as when alive; but upon thawing, will immediately lose all its former texture. This is so remarkable, that it would induce one to believe that it lost considerably of its substance ; but from Experiment VI. it is evident that it does not. The same thing happens to a plant when killed by electricity*. If a growing juicy plant receives a stroke of electricity sufficient to kill it, its leaves droop, and the whole becomes flexible. So far animal and vegetable life appear to be the same; yet an animal and a vegetable differ in one very material circumstance, which it may be proper to take particular notice of in this place, as it shows itself with remarkable evidence in these experiments. An animal is equally old in all its parts, excepting where new parts are formed in consequence of diseases; and we find that these new or young parts in animals, like the young shoots of vegetables, are not able to support life equally with the old; but every plant has in it a series of ages. According to its years, it has parts of all the successive ages from its first formation; each part ha^dng power equal to its age, and each part, in this respect, being * To kill a whole plant by electricity, it is necessary to apply the conductor, or give a shock to every projecting part; for any part that is out of the line of direction will still retain life.