AND (ECONOMY OF WHALES. 363 the mesentery, between the stomach and transverse arch of the colon, first behind to the transverse arch of the colon and root of the mesen- tery, then to the posterior surface of the left or first bag of the stomach, behind the anterior attachment. In some of this tribe there is the usual passage behind the vessels going to the liver, common to all quadrupeds I am acquainted with; but in others, as the small bottle-nose, there is no such passage, by which the cavity behind the stomach in the epi- ploon of this animal becomes a circumscribed cavity. The spleen, in the piked whale, is involved in the epiploon, and is very small for the size of the animal. There are in some, as the por- poise, one or two small ones, about the size of a nutmeg, often smaller, placed in the epiploon behind the other^. These are sometimes met with likewise in the human body. The kidneys in the whole of this tribe of animals are conglomerated, being made up of smaller parts, which are only connected by cellular membrane, blood-vessels, and ducts, or infundibula; but not partially connected by continuity of substance, as in the human body, the ox, &c.: every portion is of a conical figure, whose apex is placed towards the centre of the kidney, the base making the external surface; and each is composed of a cortical and tubular substance, the tubular ter- minating in the apex, which apex makes the mamilla. Each mamilla has an infundibulum, which is long, and at its beginning wide, em- bracing the base of the mamilla, and becoming smaller. These infun- dibula unite at last, and form the ureter. The whole kidney is an ob- long flat body, broader and thicker at the upper end than the lower, and has the appearance of being made up of different parts placed close together, almost like the pavement of a street. The ureter comes out at the lower end, and passes along to the bladder, which it enters very near the urethra. The bladder is oblong, and small for the size of the animal. In the female the urethra passes along to the external sulcus or vulva, and opens just under the clitoris, much as in the human subject. Whether being inhabitants of the water makes such a construction of kidney necessary I cannot say; yet one must suppose it to have some connection with such situation, since we find it almost uniformly take place in animals inhabiting the water, whether wholly, as this tribe, or occasionally, as the manatee, seal, and white bear; there is, however, the same structure in the black bear, which I believe never inhabits the water^. This, perhaps, should be considered in another light, as Na- [The smaller accessory spleens are sometimes four, five, or six in number.] [In the beaver and other Rodentia of amphibious habits, the kidney presents a