vi PREFACE. the present edition of his works and by those manuscripts which have already appeared in the catalogue of his Physiological collection published by the Royal College of Surgeons. Had these manuscripts, explanatory of the design of the Hunterian collection, been published before Cuvier wrote the work from which we have just quoted, that astonishing result of Hunter’s labours might perhaps have claimed a passing notice from one whose statements all Europe now receives and all posterity will regard with confidence and respect. Les autres ecrits^' the “ other writings” of Hunter to which Cuvier alludes, are indeed devoted rather to the development of general principles in physiology than to the detail of the anatomical observations upon which he founded them. Many of the facts ascertained in the course of his higher and more comprehensive inquiries, and incidentally alluded to in the nar- ration, are however fully as interesting and important as those which other anatomists have sometimes thought worthy of being made the subjects of express monographs. But Hunter had higher aims than the reputation of a mere collector of facts in comparative anatomy ; and this he not only felt but had expressed in an early period of his career. In a manuscript, copied by Mr. Clift, relating to a dissection of a turtle, he says, “ The late Sir John Pringle, knowing of this dissection, often desired me to collect all my dissections of this animal, and send them to the Royal Society; but the publish- ing of a description of a single animal, more especially a com- mon one, has never been my wish.” Howsoever we may regret this feeling, which has undoubt- edly deprived the world of the results of much inestimable la- bour, and has operated in various ways disadvantageous^ to Hunter’s own reputation, yet it indicates the expanded views of the man who entertained it. Had Hunter published seriatim his notes of the structures of the animals which he dissected, these contributions to com- parative anatomy would not only have vied with the labours of Daubenton as recorded in the Histoire Naturelle of Bufibn, or with the Comparative Dissections of Vicq d’Azyr which are inserted in the early volumes of the Encyclopedie Metho- dique and in the Memoires de V Academie Roy ale de France, but they would have exceeded them both together.