334 OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE From these circumstances it will be readily supposed that an accurate description of all the dilFerent species is not to be expected; but having acquired a general knowledge of the whole tribe from the different species which have come under my examination, I have been enabled to form a tolerable idea, even of parts which I have only had the oppor- tunity of seeing in a very cursory way. General observation would lead us to believe that the whole of this tribe constitutes one order of animals, which naturalists have subdivided into genera and species; but a deficiency in the knowledge of their oeconomy has prevented them from making these divisions with suffi- cient accuracy; and this is not surprising, since the genera and spe- cies are still in some measure undetermined, even in animals with which we are better acquainted. The animals of this order are in size the largest known, and probably, therefore, the fewest in number of all that live in water. Size, I be- lieve, in those animals which feed upon others, is in an inverse pro- portion to the number of the smaller; but I believe this tribe varies more in that respect than any we know, viewing it from the whalebone or Balcena mysticetus; not referring to tlie relative difference in the general bulk of the body, in which the ‘ small whalebone whale ’ {Balcsnoptera Boops, Cuv.) has the advantage, sinee it attains the length of from eighty to one hundred feet, while the ‘ large whalebone whale' was never seen by Scoresby to exceed the length of sLxty feet, nor was ever reported to him to have been longer than sixty-seven feet. The whale described by Dale, in Taylor’s Antiquities of ITarvdch (p. 411, pi. xiv.), of which species Hunter dissected an individual, twenty-one feet in length, is generally called by him the ‘ great bottle-nose whale,’ in contradistinction to the Delphinus iur- sio, which he calls also ‘ bottle-nose,’ or ‘ small bottle-nose whale.’ Dale’s whale is distinguished chiefly by the presence of only two small teeth in the lower jaw, and a number of horny tooth-hke projections from the roof of the mouth, which Cuvier conjectures may be the rudiments or analogues of the baleen of the true whales. This Cetacean is now considered the type of a new genus, called by Lacepede ‘ Hyperoodon' and the only well-ascertained species is generally designated, after its original describer. Dale, ‘ Hyperoodon Dalei.’ The indmdual described by Dale was fourteen feet in length. Another described by Chemnitz, which was captured at Spitzbergen, measured twenty-five feet. A female, which was taken with her young one, near Harfleur, in 1788, was twenty-three feet in length. Nevertheless, the skeleton of the Hunterian specimen manifests all the characters of immature age, in the separation of the epiphyses ; although it is to be observed that these parts are anchylosed less early in the Cetacea than in the land mammalia. The small bottle-nose whale of Hunter is not the common dolphin, JDelphinus del- phis, L., as he supposed, but the Delphinus Tursio of Fabricius, as is shown by the skull and other parts which are preserved in the Hunterian Collection, as well as by the size of the specimen which Hunter describes. The Delphinus delphis is from six to seven feet in length, and has from forty-tv\^o to forty-seven teeth on each side of each jaw. The Delphinus Tursio attains the length of ten and eleven feet, and has from twenty-one to twenty-three teeth on each side of each jaw ; which teeth are conical, but proportionally larger and more obtuse than in D. delphis.]