240 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. their fibres at the same time, each part often acting separately, like se- parate muscles ; they are capable of taking on an action at any one part, and of continuing from that part a succession of actions to any other part, or through the whole muscle; and they are capable, by an action of the whole muscle, of producing one general effect. The action of the lateral portions of such muscles affects the tendon somewhat similar to the complete-penniform; therefore the middle fibres must either be longer than the lateral, or have a greater power of contraction, which will be better understood after the explanation of the action of the com- plete-penniform. The temporal muscle is an exception to the rule of muscles being made radiated to produce a succession of actions; for whatever part of this muscle acts, nearly the same effect is produced; such muscles, cateris paribus, produce effects proportioned to their length of fibres. These muscles have one advantage, which is, that their fibres are much longer than those of any other muscle whose body is of an equal length; they can therefore contract much more, and are always used in the more extensive motions. The half-penniform muscle is, I believe, similar in its action to the foregoing; for although the fibres are more oblique, the tendon is move- able laterally, so as to move nearly in the same line with the fibres. This kind of muscle is never used in extensive motions, except where there is considerable distance between the origin and insertion, to admit of sufficient length of fibres. Although there is hardly an instance of a a b complete-penniform muscle in the body, yet as all the complex penniform act upon the same principle, I shall explain the effects in a supposed complete-penniform, and show that this disposition of fibres produces a greater effect than any of the foregoing. In the action of these muscles we suppose that the inserted tendon is always moved in the middle line, between the two origins of the muscle, and therefore the muscular fibres in this action do not lose their obliquity, as in the half-penniform, but have it increased, which produces a greater effect. Let A C and B C represent two fibres of a penniform muscle in their extended state, A and B being their origin, and C the point of insertion into the tendon C D. Suppose these fibres contracted to the points E and F, it is evident