OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. 462 allowed them to be connected their full time. They were in copula- tion ten hours. I then put her into a box by herself, and when she laid her eggs, I numbered the different parcels as she laid them, viz. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 ; these eggs I preserved, and in the summer following I perceived that the No. 5 was as prolific as the No. 1 ; so that this one copulation was capable of impregnating the whole brood ; and therefore the male influence must go either along the oviduct its whole length, and impregnate the incomplete eggs as well as the complete, which appears to me not likely, or those not yet formed were impregnated from the reservoir in the act of laying; for I conceived that these bags, by con- taining semen, had a power of impregnating the egg as it passed along to the anus, just as it traversed the mouth of the duct of communication. • Finding that eggs completely formed could be impregnated by the semen, and also finding that the before-mentioned bag was a reservoir for the semen till wanted, I wished next to discover if they could be im- pregnated from the semen of this bag; but as this must be done with- out the act of copulation, I conceived it proper, first, to see whether the ova of insects might be impregnated without the natural act of copula^ tion, by applying the male semen over the ova, just as they were laid. The following experiments were made on the silk-moth. Experiment I. I took a female moth, as soon as she escaped from her pod, and kept her carefully by herself upon a clean card, till she began to lay; then I took males that were ready for copulation, opened them, exposing their seminal ducts, and after cutting into these, col- lected their semen with a hair pencil: with this semen I covered the ova, as soon as they passed out of the vagina. The card with these eggs, having a written account of the experiment upon it, I kept in a box by itself. In the ensuing season eight of the ova hatched at the same time with others naturally impregnated. Thus then I ascertoii^ed that the eggs could be impregnated by art, after they were laid^. ' The ova laid by females that had not been impregnated did not stick where they were laid ; so that the semen would appear not only to im- pregnate the ova, but also to be the means of attaching them. . To know whether that bag in the female silk-moth which increased at the time of copulation, was filled with the semen of the male, I made the following experiment. ' Experiment II, I took a female moth, as soon as she had escaped from the pod, and kept her on a card till she began to lay. I then took females that were fully impregnated before they began to lay, and dis- ® [This circumstance was proved, as regards the ova of fishes, by Gleditsch. See Memoh'es de TAcad. de Berlin, 1764.]