ON THE GLANDS CALLED VESICULiE SEMINALES. 29 small, and being therefore unfit to give such dispositions, as is the case in very young animals. This fact is very obvious in birds, of w^hich the sparrow may be produced as a proof. For if a cock-sparrow is killed in the winter, before the days have begun to lengthen, the testicle will be found very small*; but if that organ is examined at different times in other sparrows, as the warmth of the weather increases, and if this examination is continued to the breeding-season, the difference in the size of the testicle will be very strikingf. This circumstance is not pe- culiar to bii;ds, but is common, as far as I yet know, to all animals which have their seasons of copulation. In the buck we find the testicles are reduced to a very small size in the winter; and in the land-mouse, mole, &c. this diminution is still more remarkable. Animals, on the con- trary, which are not in a state of nature have no such change taking place in their testicles; and, not being much affected by seasons, are consequently always in good condition, or in a state to which other ani- mals that are left to themselves can only attain in the warmer season. Therefore in man, who is in the state we have last described, the tes- ticles are nearly of the same size in winter as in summer; and nearly, though not exactly, the same thing may be observed in the horse, ram, &c., these animals having their seasons in a certain degree. The variation above taken notice of is not confined to the testicles, but also extends to the parts which are connected with them. For in those animals that have their seasons for propagation the most distinctly marked, as the land-mouse, mole, &c., the vesiculae are hardly discern- ible in the winter, but in the spring are very large, varying in size in a manner similar to the testicle. It may, however, be alleged that the change in these bags might naturally be supposed to take place, even admitting them to be seminal reservoirs ; but what happens to the pro- state gland, which has never been supposed to contain semen, will take off the force of this objection, since in all the animals which have such a gland (and which have their season for propagation) it undergoes a si- milar change. In the mole the prostate gland in winter is hardly dis- cernible, but in the spring becomes very large and is filled with mucus. From these observations it is reasonable to infer that the use of the vesiculae in the animal (economy must, in common with many other parts, be dependent upon the testicles. For the penis, urethra, and all the parts connected with them, are so far subservient to the testicles that I am persuaded few of them would have existed if there had been no testicles in the original construction of the body“; and these would * Vide Plate XXIX. fig. 1. + Vide Plate XXIX. fig. 5. ® [The construction and functions of the penis in reptiles and those birds which possess the organ prove the correctness of this view; and very striking evidence of the