67 ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE PLACENTA. The veins of the uterus appropriated to bring back the blood from the placenta commence from this spongy substance by such wide be- ginnings as are more than equal to the size of the veins themselves. These veins pass obliquely through the decidua to the uterus, enter its substance obliquely, and immediately communicate with the proper veins of the uterus. The area of these veins bears no proportion to their circumference, the veins being very much flattened. This structure of parts points out at once the nature of the blood’s motion in the placenta; but as this is a fact but lately ascertained, a just idea may perhaps be conveyed by saying that it is similar, as far as we yet know, to the blood’s motion through the cavernous substance of the penis. The blood, detached from the common circulation of the mother, moves through the placenta of the foetus; and is then returned back into the course of the circulation of the mother, to pass on to the heart. This structure of the placenta, and its communication with the ute- rus, leads us a step further in our knowledge of the connexion between the mother and foetus. The blood of the mother must pass freely into the substance of the placenta, and the placenta most probably will be constantly filled ; the turgidity of which will assist to squeeze the l)lood into the mouths of the veins of the uterus, that it may again pass into the common circulation of the mother; and as the interstices of the placenta are of much greater extent than the arteries which convey the blood, the motion of the blood in that part must be so much diminished as almost to approach to stagnation. So far and no further does the mother appear to be concerned in this connexion. The foetus has a communication with the placenta of another kind. The arteries from the foetus pass out to a considerable length, under the name of the umbilical arteries, and when they arrive at the placenta ramify upon its surface, sending into its substance branches which pass through it, and divide into smaller and smaller, till at last they termi- nate in veins ; these, uniting, become larger and larger, and end in one, which at last communicates with the proper circulation of the foetus. This course of vessels, and the blood’s motion in them, is similar to the course of the vessels and the motion of the blood in other parts of the body^. ® [It is well known that the accuracy of this description has been disputed by seve- ral Continental anatomists, and has especially been called in question in this country by Dr. Robert Lee, F.R.S., who, with a zeal becoming a sincei'e lover of truth, deemed it his duty to submit to the scientific world the results of a series of investigations, which he considered to be irreconcileable in some respects with the Hunterian descrip- tions. During the period in which Dr. Lee was examining, at the College of Surgeons, F 2