CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 227 The complete-penniform muscle is two lialf-penniform muscles joined together. The complex-muscle is several complete-penniform muscles united into one. There are many half-penniform and complex muscles in the human body, but hardly one instance of a distinct complete-penniform muscle. In proportion to their combination their fibres are shorter, and a greater number in a given size, which must make them proportionally stronger. Situafion of Muscles. Muscles which move bones, cartilages, &c. which are inflexible in themselves, generally lie upon them ; for instance, the biceps flexor cu- biti lies on the os humeri, the latissimus dorsi upon the back. Now the humerus and spine have little motion in themselves when these muscles have occasion to act. Muscles, however, lie sometimes upon the axis of motion, the body of the muscle going over the joint. This is most remarkable in parts near the centre of the body, as in the muscles of the spine, and in those of the first joints, or setting on of the extre- mities. The necessity of this disposition will appear more evident when we consider the vast power which must often be brought into a small space. In the spine, for example, there is not surface sufficient in this chain of small bones for the origin and insertion of a sufficient quantity of muscle; therefore the fixed point of the most superficial muscles is removed to a distant and broader base, and they pass over several joints to their differ- ent insertions, as the longissimus dorsi, sacro-lumbalis, &c. The same disposition is necessary in the first joints of the extremi- ties : the extremities come out at once from the trunk, which is a broad or extended base for muscular attachment, so that the muscles are obliged to pass over the joint some way to find a surface for their in- sertion. Muscles in general lie in the direction of the parts they are to move; there are, however, exceptions to this where there is an irregularity in the motion of the joint, as in the motions of the head, shoulders, ribs, thighs, &c. In those animals which have one great centre of motion, to which a series of smaller ones are subordinate, as in man, the bodies of the mus- cles are in general nearer to the fixed point than to the moving one; and the muscular fibres often arise from the fixed point itself, without the in- terposition of a tendon ; these muscles, however, do not come near to q2