446 OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. oz. drams.' January 2Gth, it had lost 3 1J February 2nd, 5 0 9th, 7 0 The whole 72 1^ Although an indolent state is very much the condition of bees through the winter, yet progress is making in the queen tow^ards a summer’s in- crease. The eggs in the oviducts are beginning to swell, and I believe in the month of March she is ready to lay them, for the young bees are to swarm in June; which constitutes the queen bee to be the earliest breeder of any insect we know. In consequence of this, the labourers become sooner employed than any other of this tribe of insects. This both queen and labourers are enabled to accomplish, from living in so- ciety through the winter; and it becomes necessary in them, as they have their colony to form early in the summer, which is to provide for itself for the winter following. All this requires the process to be carried forward earlier than by any other insect, for these are only to have young which are to take care of themselves through the summer, not being under the necessity of providing for the winter. In the month of April I found in the cells young bees, in all stages, from the egg to the chrysalis state, some of which were changed in colour, therefore were nearly arrived at the fly state, and probably some might have flown. As this season is too early for collecting the provision of the maggot abroad, the store of farina comes now into use; but as soon as flowers begin to blow, the bees gather the fresh, although they have farina in store, giving the fresh the preference. Of the Queen, The queen bee, as she is termed, has excited more curiosity than all the others, although much more belongs to the labourers. From the number of these, and from their exposing themselves, they have their history much better made out; but as there is only one queen, and she scarcely ever seen, it being only the effects of her labour w^e can come at, an opportunity has been given to the ingenuity of conjecture, and more has been said than can well be proved. She is allowed to be bred in the common way, only that there is a peculiar cell for her in her first stage ; and Reaumur says, her food is different when in the maggot state;” but as therctis probably but one queen, that the whole might not depend on one life, it is asserted that the labourers have a power