OF ABSORPTION BY VEINS. SOI Such were my notions of the source of our interstitial fluid. With regard to its absorption, I was of opinion that Nature had provided a system on purpose, viz. the lymphatics. I considered these vessels and the lacteals as an appendage to the venal system, by which the stores were brought in for supplying the circulation; and the glands and se- cretory vessels all over the body I considered as an appendage to the arterial system, by which the proper separations were made, and the re- dundancies thrown off. My only doubt was whether the veins did or did not absorb a certain quantity, especially in the intestines. From my own observations on injections I should have concluded that they did not, and that there was no passage for liquors between an intestine and the mesenteric veins otherwise than by transudation. But authors of the best credit had given such arguments and experiments in favour of absorption by veins, that I dared not, even in my own mind, determine the question. At this time my brother was deeply engaged in physiological inqui- ries, in making experiments on living animals, and in prosecuting com- parative anatomy with great accuracy and application. It is well known that I speak of him with moderation when I say so. He took the sub- ject of absorption into his consideration, and from all his obser\’ations was inclined to believe that in the human body there was one, and but one, system of vessels for absorption. He knew so well that many things had been asserted by one person after another which were not true, that so many mistakes had been made from inattention, so many errors in- troduced from other causes, that he could easily suppose the veins might not perhaps absorb, after all the demonstrations that had been given of the fact; and therefore was determined to see how far this point could be cleared up by plain experiments and observations. With that inten- tion he made the following experiments, in my presence and in the pre- sence of a number of gentlemen, who all of us assisted him, and made our own observations upon what passed before us. I shall quote the experiments from him, and can bear testimony to the fairness with which they were made and with which they are here related. “ Animal First.—Experiment I. On the 3rd of November, 1758*,’' says he, “I opened the belly of a living dog. The intestines rushed out immediately. I exposed them fully; and we observed the lacteals filled with a white liquor at the upper part of the gut and mesentery; but in those which came from the ileon and colon the liquor was trans- parent. * In presence of Doctors Clayton, Fordyce, and Michaelson, and Messrs. Blount, Jones, Cliurchill, and Richardson.