ON ANIMALS PRODUCING HEAT. 147 The next remove from the fowl being what is commonly called the Am- phibia. Experiment XXVIII. I introduced the thermometer into the sto- mach, and afterwards into the anus of a healthy viper, and the quick- silver rose from 58® (the heat of the atmosphere in which it was) to 68®; so that it was ten degrees warmer than the common atmosphere®. Experiment XXIX. Having ascertained the heat of the water in a pond, in which there were carp, to be 65-^®, I took a carp out of this water, and having introduced the thermometer into its stomach, the quicksilver rose to 69®; so that the difference between the w^ater and the fish was only S^-®.^ Experiment XXX. The heat of the atmosphere at 56®; some earth- worms were put into a glass vessel, and a thermometer being immersed among them, the quicksilver stood at 58^®. This experiment was repeated; the atmosphere at 55°; and the worms were found to be 57®. Experiment XXXI. The atmosphere at 54®; four black slugs were put into a small vessel, and a thermometer immersed among them stood at 55-^®. Experiment XXXII. The atmosphere at 56®; three leeches were put into a small glass vessel, and a thermometer immersed among them stood at 57®. This experiment was repeated; the atmosphere at 54®; when the thermometer stood at 55-f®. To see how far the colder animals had a power of preserving their standard heat when exposed to severe cold, I made the following expe- riments. Experiment XXXIII. A viper, whose heat was 68®, was put into a pan, and the pan into a cold mixture of about 10®; after remaining there • [The observations of Czermack correspond with the above experiment. He found that the difference between the temperature of the animal and that of the surrounding medium was greater in serpents and lizards than in other reptiles. The temperature of a turtle {CheloniaMydas)'vi9.% 82® when the surrounding atmosphere was 84®. That of a frog was 48” when the surrounding water was 44®. That of a Proteus was 64®, the surrounding water being 56®.] [Certain saltwater fishes, as the bonito and thunny, which have the gills supplied with nerves of unusual magnitude, and therefore probably enjoy a more energetic re- spiration,w'hich have also a very powerful heart, and the quantity of red blood such as to give the muscles a dark red colour, manifest a higher degree of temperature than the white fishes of fresh water, on which Mr. Hunter experimented. Dr. John Davy found that the bonito had a temperature of 99® Fahrenheit when the surrounding medium was 80®*5. See Philos. Trans. 1835.] l2