CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 215 Voluntary actions, when very violent, produce involuntary, as the cramp, from dancing, swimming, &c. We feel every involuntary action of a voluntary muscle, while we do not feel the voluntary actions; nor do we feel the actions of an invo- luntary muscle. When such actions are slight we only feel them as little convulsions, contractions in different parts of the body, called creeping in the flesh, or quivering in the eyelids ; but when these become violent, as in cramps or spasms, then the sensation is pain. Voluntary muscles, the stronger they are, the more they are at the command of the will; and the weaker they are the more they seem in- dependent of the power of the will, and seem to be either at their own command, or at that of the nerve. Strong people are less subject to spasms than weak, which may perhaps arise from custom ; the strong muscles being more healthy, are oftener in use, and therefore become more at the command of the will. Women, children, and sick men are subject to fits, for the reason just mentioned; perhaps also diseases of the uterus, for the same reason, are the cause of spasmodic complaints, it being very little at the command of the Mull, but of other circumstances ; and from this disposition draws in other parts by consent, and so brings on general spasm. Voluntary muscles always become tired when long continued in the same action, which accounts for animals tiring sooner by being kept in one position than if allowed to move; and we find a man can hardly stand five minutes in one position; he never stands equally upon both legs, but upon one as a base, the other as a prop, so as to be able to shift his legs as they tire. Animals, also, by moving or producing alternate motions by their muscles, can go on for a considerable time, but their alternate motion must not be quick, as it always requires a certain time for muscles to regain the power which they lost in action, and if the alternate motion becomes quick and violent, it may tire sooner than constant motion. The voluntary actions of young animals are not so strong, and are much less lasting than those of middle age ; that strength they have they are not capable of employing for any great continuance without tiring, especially in actions where a considerable force is required. Thus we have young horses soon fatigued with labour, which the same horses will easily perform some years after. This ability in the older horse does not arise entirely from a naturally greater degree of strength, joined with a natural capability of continuance, but in some degree from an acquired strength from employment, and a capacity of endurance from the habit of action. This might be thought sufficient to account for the whole difference, but dealers in horses affirm that one