OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE 352 nourishment or food, and are so much connected with everything rela- tive to it as not only to give good hints whether the food is vegetable or animal, but also respecting the particular kind of either, especially of animal food. The mouth not only receives the food, but is the im- mediate instrument for catching it. As it is a compound instrument in many animals, having parts of various constructions belonging to it, I shall at present consider it in this tribe no further than as connected with their mode of catching food, and adapting and disposing it for being swallowed. It is probable that these animals do not require either a division of the food, or a mastication of it in the mouth, but swallow whatever they catch whole; for we do not find any of them furnished with parts capable of producing either effect. The mouth in most of this tribe is well adapted for catching the food; the jaws spread as they go back, making the mouth proportionally wider than in many other animals. There is a very great variety in the formation of the mouths of this tribe of animals, which we have many opportunities of knowing, from the head being often brought home when the other parts of the animal are rejected; a circumstance which frequently leaves us ignorant of the particular species to which it belonged. Some catch their food by means of teeth, which are in both jaws, as the porpoise and grampus ; in others, they are only in one jaw, as in the spermaceti whale®; and in the large bottle-nose whale, described by Dale, there are only two small teeth in the anterior part of the lower jaw. In the narwhale only two tusks* in the fore part of the upper jaw^; while in some others there are none at all. In those which have teeth in both jaws, the number in each varies considerably; the small bottle-nose had forty-six in the upper, and fifty in the lower; and in the jaws of others there are only five or six in each. * I call these tusks to distinguish them from common teeth. A tusk is that kind of tooth which has no bounds set to its growth, excepting by abrasion, as the tusk of the elephant, boar, sea-horse, manatee, &c. “ [The large exserted teeth are confined to the lower jaw in this species, but there are a few smaller teeth in the upper jaw of the cachalot. They are described by Mr. F. D. Bennett (Zoological Proceedings, December, 1836.) as sometimes occupying the bottom of the cavities which receive the teeth of the lower jaw, but generally corre- sponding to the intervals between them. They measure in length about three inches, and are slightly cm*\ed backwards, are developed in the gum, and have only a very slight attachment to the jaw-bone; in two instances, Mr. Bennett found eight on each side of the upper jaw.] ^ [The concealed rudimental tusk in the male narwhale (figured by Sir Everard Home in the Philosophical Transactions for 1813, p. 126,) was first discovered by Tichonius, and described by him in a dissertation entitled, Monoceros Piscis baud Mo- noceros, Copenhagen, 1706.]