OBSERA^ATIONS ON BEES; 461 things in their oeconomy might escape us if we considered them alone, but might be made out in other insects : an instance of this occurs in the impregnation of the female bee. The death of the males in the month of August, so that not one is left, and yet the queen to breed in the month of March, must puzzle any one not acquainted with the mode of impregnation of the females of most insects. Insects, respecting the males, are of two kinds : one, where the male lives through the winter, as well as the female; and the other, where every male of that species dies before the winter comes on; among which may be considered, as a third, those where both male and female die the same year. Of the first, I shall only give the common fly as an instance ; of the second, I shall just mention all of the bee tribe ; and the third may be illustrated in the silk-worm moth. The mode of impregnation in the first is its being continued uninterruptedly through the whole period of laying eggs ; while in the second, the copulation is in store; and in the third the female lays up, by the copulation, a store of semen, although tlie male is alive. Of this I shall now give an explanation in the silk-moth, which may be applied to the bee, and many other insects. In dissecting the female parts in the silk-moth, I discovered a bag lying on what may be called the vagina, or common oviduct, whose mouth or opening was external, but it had a canal of communication between it and the common oviduct. In dissecting these parts before’^ copulation I found this bag empty, and when I dissected them after, I found it full. Suspecting this to contain the semen of the male, I im- mediately conceived the following experiment. I opened the female as soon as the male had united to her, and found the penis in the opening of this bag, and by opening the duct where the penis lay I observed the semen lying on the end of the penis. In another, I observed the bag to fill in the time of copulation; and in a pair that died in the act, I found the penis in this passage. When we consider the impregnation of the egg in the silk-worm, we may observe the following circumstances ; First, many of the ova are completely formed, and covered with a hard shell, before copulation; secondly, the animals are a vast while in the act of copulation; and, thirdly, the bags at the anus are filled during the time of copulation. From the first observation it appears that the egg can receive the male influence through the hard or horny part of the shell. To know how far the whole, or only a part of the eggs, were impregnated by each copulation, I made the following experiments*. I took a female just emerged out of her cell, and put a male to her, and * All these experiments on the silk-moth were begun in the summer 1767, and re- peated by Mr. Bell in the year 1770.