19*2 THE NERVES OF THE ORGAN OF SMELLING. fasciculus ; and this is probably the reason why the first pair is weaker while within the skull than the others. Its form is somewhat triangu- lar, having three edges, from lying in a groove made by two convolu- tions of the brain. The course is forwards, a little upwards and in- wards, and where it lies upon the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone becomes somewhat larger, and divides into a great many branches, like so many roots, answering to the number of holes in that plate, except one left for a branch of the fifth pair; but these divisions we cannot see, they being covered by the body of the nerve, which cannot be raised without breaking off the small branches at their origin. As the branches of the nerve pass through this bone, they seem to take processes from the dura mater along with them, then becoming firm chords, similar to other nerves. These branches, after they have got through the bone, form themselves into two planes or divisions, one passing on the sep- tum, the other on the turbinated bones. Those of the septum narium, in their passage to the nose, are first continued a little way down, in bony canals of the perpendicular lamella of the ethmoid bone, which holes become small grooves in that bone; and those on the opposite side, being more numerous and smaller, pass down through small holes that are on the inside plate of the ethmoid bone, which holes are like- wise continued into grooves, for a little way, upon that plate. When the branches get upon the membrane of the nose, they subdivide into a great many smaller ones, which are somewhat flattened, and are only to be seen on that side of the membrane that adheres to the bones, not being visible at all on the other; so that the dissection of these nerves is no more than separating the membrane and bone from each other. They can hardly be dissected all round ; and the further they are traced upon the membrane the fainter they become, and growing smaller they sink deeper and deeper into the membrane to get on its outer surface, where we must suppose they terminate. Those upon the septum pass down a little radiated, and the branches, especially at the upper part, or at their first setting out, unite with one another. Those on the side next the antrum, when they have reached the membrane of the nose, in their course to the superior turbinated bone, form a very consider- able network or plexus; and when they reach that bone, do not all go round its convex curvated pendulous edge to the concave side, but some passing through its substance get immediately upon it, which is the reason why we find so many holes in that bone. It is difficult to trace them further ; but we have reason to suppose that they go through the inferior turbinated bone in the same manner, since .we find similar holes.