OF THE FREE-MARTIN. 34 ACCOUNT OF THE FREE-MARTIN, Generation, from a seed, requires the concurrence of two causes to give it perfection: the one to form the seed, the other to give it the principle of action*. The cause forming the seed is called the female, the other the male; but those two causes in general make only a part of a whole animal, or are rather parts superadded to an animal. Probably these character- istics were first observed in such animals as had the female parts com- plete in one, and the male in the other; therefore the terms female and male have been applied to the whole animal, dividing them into two di- stinct sexes, and the parts which formed the one sex or the other were called the female or the male parts of generation. But, upon a more accurate knowledge of animals and of their parts of generation, these were found in many of the inferior tribes to be united in the same ani- mal, which from possessing both has got the name of hermaphrodite. As the distinction of male or female parts is natural to most animals, as the union of them in the same animal is also natural to many, and as the separation of them is only a circumstance making no essential difference in the structure of the parts themselves, it becomes no great effort or uncommon play in Nature sometimes to unite them in those animals in which they are commonly separated; a circumstance we really find takes place in many animals of those orders in which such an union is unnatural. From this state of the case hermaphrodites may be di- vided into two kinds, the natural and unnatural. The natural hermaphrodite belongs to the inferior and more simple genera of animals, of which there is a much greater number than of the • It may be necessary for some of my readers to have explained to them what I mean by a seed. I do suppose that the word seed was first applied to grain, or that which is alw'ays called seed in the vegetable; which seed is the part of such vegetables in which the matter of the young vegetable exists or is formed. The principle of arrangement in the farina, or male part, fitting the seed for action, being at first not known, a false ana- logy betw'een the vegetable and animal was established, and the matter secreted by the testes was called the seed; but, from the knowledge of the distinct sexes in the vege- table, it is well known that the seed is the female production in them, and that the principle of arrangement for action is- from the male. The same operation and prin- ciples take place in many orders of animals, the female producing a seed in which is the matter fitted for the first arrangement of the organs of the animal, and which receives the principle of arrangement fitting them for action from the male.