PREFACE. XXIV the blood’s motion by means of the microscope in the hands of Carus, Bowerbank, and other excellent observers, the character of a new discovery. Hunter first determined the bi-auricular structure of the heart in the batrachian caducibranchiate reptiles, which he in- cluded in the class Tricoilia of his classification of animals ac- cording to the structure of the heart. Hunter first discovered, by means of retrograde injections of the tuhuli uriniferi, that these essential parts of the kidney extended to the superficies of that gland, and were not confined to the medullary substance. Meckel, who saw while in Lon- don the beautiful preparations establishing this fact (Nos. 1202, 1203, 1214, 1215, 1235), described them on his return to Ger- many to Muller v/ho, in his recent elaborate work on the glands, acknowledges how important this observation was in establish- ing true notions of the structure of glands. Hunter extended his researches on the renal organ to the intervertebrate classes, and shows the kidney of the snail and the correctness of this ascription to the so-called mucus gland has been recently established by the observations of Pro- fessors Jacobson and de Blainville. I have selected a few facts from amongst the multitude which Hunter ascertained in the progress of those investigations, by which he sought in the simpler modifications of the structures in the lower animals the true uses of the different organs which are combined to form the complex frame of man. I might lastly allude to the extraordinary nature and extent of Hunter’s labours in another track of physiological inquiry, viz. that which unfolds the laws of generation and animal de- velopment ; but as the work confided to me by the Council of the Royal College of Surgeons, viz. the description of the se- ries of preparations on these subjects, which include nearly one half of Hunter’s grand Physiological Collection, is still in pro- gress, I defer the comparison of Hunter’s labours in this field with those of his contemporaries until the whole body of the evidence of his discoveries can be laid before the public. The papers, however, which Hunter published in his life- time, and which form the first part of the present volume, con- vey a most favourable idea of his views respecting this recon- ♦ De penitiori structure Glandularum, fol. p. 95.