ON ANIMALS PRODUCING HEAT. 135 ages, and the same animal is always growing older, and of course more and more perfect, they then become more capable of generating heat than when they were younger®. This, however, has its limitations, for after a certain period they again lose this power, and therefore require a less strongly conducting medium, or warm atmosphere. This power of generating heat seems to be a property in an animal while alive. In the more perfect animals it is to preserve a standard heat; and as they are most commonly in an atmosphere colder than themselves, they have most commonly occasion to exert it, and it is therefore a power only of opposition and resistance; for it is not found to exert itself spontaneously and unprovoked, but must always be ex- cited by the energy of some external frigorific agent, or disease; yet it is natural to such animals that this power should be called forth, as will be observed by and by. It does not depend on the motion of the blood, as some have supposed, because it likewise belongs to animals which have no circulation^: and the nose of a dog, which is always nearly of the same heat in all temperatures of the air, is well supplied with blood‘d; although we must allow, where this power is greatest the circulation is the quickest. Neither can it be said to depend upon the nervous sy- stem, for it is found in animals that have no brain or nerves. However, it must be allowed that all that class which possess this power in the highest degree have the largest brain, although this power is not in the • [Young animals consume, in proportion, less oxygen than adults; consequently, a less proportion of carbonic acid is formed in the change of the arterial into the venous blood, and a less amount of heat is extricated. When exposed to cold they become torpid, lose their heat, and also their sensibility, in which latter circumstance, and in some other points, they differ considerably from the hybernating animal in its state of lethargy.] [An argument of this importance deserved to be stated with more circumstance. Mr. Hunter does not say what the animals are which have no circulation. It is pos- sible, however, that he was alluding to bees. But these insects we know enjoy a circu- lation, governed, as his own dissections show, by a dorsal heart. And insects manifest the power of generating heat above that of other invertebrate animals precisely in consequence of the greater activity of their locomotive, respiratory, and sanguifer- ous functions. It is true, however, that mere motion of the blood is not a cause of animal heat, because the circulation goes on in the hybernating animal when in its cold and lethargic state; but the blood’s motion is here inoperative as a cause of heat, because in torpidity no chemical change takes place in the blood during its passage through the capillaries, either of the systemic or pulmonic systems of vessels; it is only venous blood that is moving.] * [The temperature of the nose of a dog is lowered by the constant evaporation of the moisture excreted from its surface; when this secretion is checked in consequence of internal disease, then the nose soon grows hot; and the dryness and heat of this part, both in the dog and other animals, form a common symptom of loss of health, as we have frequently had occasion to observe in the animals in the Zoological Gardens.]