PREFACE. XXll cavities of the bones ; the honour of which discovery must be assigned to Hunter and Camper, without the necessity of sup- posing that either had borrowed from the other. The preparations in the Hunterian Collection and the Manu- script Catalogues show that Mr. Hunter had discovered the peritoneal canals or openings in the eel, salmon, and the carti- laginous fishes, in the crocodile, and the continuation of the same peritoneal canals into the corpus cavernosum penis in the tortoise and turtle. The latter have been recently re-discovered by MM. Isidore St. Hilaire and Martin St. Ange. Hunter’s printed works, preparations, manuscripts and draw- ings contain proofs of his discovery of the circulation of the blood in insects, and of the peculiar diffused irregular and ex- tended venous receptacles in these and the crustaceous animals, in the latter of which their existence remains unnoticed, even in the latest works on the subject. In the Treatise on the Blood* we have an opportunity of judging, by the accuracy of the general propositions W'hich he enumerates on this subject, of the extent of Hunter’s researches on the comparative anatomy of the circulating system, and of the spirit in which he prosecuted the induction of particular facts. I cannot resist the quotation of the following passages which relate to the circulation in insects. ‘‘ In the winged in- sects which have but one heart, as also but one circulation, there is this heart answ^ering both purposes” (viz. the corporeal and the pulmonary circulations), p. 174. Many of those w^hich have one ventricle only have no au- ricle, such as insects ; but there are others which have both a ventricle and auricle, such as fish, the snail, and many shelh fish; some of the last class have indeed two auricles, wdth only one ventricle. The heart is placed in what is called the chest in the qua- druped, bird, amphibia, fish, and the aquatic and terrestrial in- sect, but not in what may be called the chest in the flying insect. The chest in the aquatic insect seems best suited to con- tain the lungs and branchiae, and therefore the heart is placed there ; but as the lungs of the flying insect are placed through the whole body the heart is more diffused, extending through th,e whole length of the animal.” * § 5, p. 173 of the present edition.