169 OF PERSONS APPARENTLY DROWNED. first cause, and the heart’s motion ceasing, to be the second or conse- quent ; therefore most probably the restoration of breathing is all that is necessary to restore the heart’s motion; for if sufficient life still ex- ists to produce that effect, we may suppose every part equally ready to move the very instant in which the action of the heart takes place, their actions depending so much upon it. What makes it very probable, that in recovering persons drowned, the principal effect depends upon air being thrown into the lungs, is what happens at the birth of children, when too much time has intervened between the interruption of that life which is peculiar to the foetus and that which depends on breathing; they then lose altogether the disposition for this new life; and in such cases, there being a total suspension of the actions of life, the child re- mains to all appearance dead, and would certainly die if air were not thrown into its lungs, and by such means the first principle of action restored. To put this in a still clearer light, I will give the result of some experiments which I made in the year 1755 upon a dog. A pair of double bellows were provided, constructed in such a manner as by one action to throw fresh air into the lungs, and by another to suck out again the air which had been thrown in by the former, with- out mixing them, together. The muzzle of these bellows was fixed into the trachea of a dog, and by working them he was kept perfectly alive. While this artificial breathing was going on I took off the sternum of the dog, and exposed the lungs and heart; the heart continued to act as before, only the frequency of its action was considerably increased. When I stopped the motion of the bellows the heart became gradually weaker, and less frequent in its contractions, till it entirely ceased to move. By renewing the action of the bellows the heart again began to move, at first very faintly, and with long intermissions; but by con- tinuing the artificial breathing, its motion became as frequent and as strong as at first. This process I repeated upon the same dog ten times, sometimes stopping for five, eight, or ten minutes, and observed that every time I left off working the bellows the heart became extremely turgid with blood, the blood in the left side becoming as dark as that in the right, which was not the case when the bellows were working. These situations of the animal appeared to me exactly similar to drowning. Death in persons drowned has been accounted for by supposing that the blood, rendered unfit for the purposes of life by being deprived of the action of the air in respiration, is sent in a vitiated state to the brain and other vital parts, by which means the nerves lose their effect u]3on the heart, and the heart in consequence its motion. This, however, I am fully convinced is false; first, from the experiments on the dog, in