OF PERSONS APPARENTLY DROWNED. 173 oils, may be so conveyed as to come in contact with many parts of his body; and it will certainly prove advantageous if the same kind of steams can be conveyed into the stomach’, as that seat of universal sym- pathy will be roused by such means. This may be done by a hollow bougie and a syringe; but the operation should be performed witli all possible expedition, because the instrument, by continuing in the mouth, may produce sickness, an effect I should choose to avoid, unless it is in- tended to produce the action of vomiting. Some of the stimulating sub- stances, which are of a warm nature and have an immediate effect, as spirits of hartshorn, peppermint-water, juice of horse-radish, and many others which produce a more lasting stimulus in a fluid state, and are found to quicken the pulse of a man in health, as balsams and turpen- tines, may be thrown into the stomach ; but the quantity must be small, as they have a tendency to produce sickness; for it may be imagined that what would produce debility, or lessen action when in health, would in opposite circumstances prevent actions from taking place. The ap- plication of steams and other substances should also be thrown up by the anus; and the process recommended under the first head of treat- ment should still be continued while that recommended under the second is putting in practice, the last being only an auxiliary to the first. The first, in many cases, may succeed alone ; but the second without the first must, I think, always fail where the powers of life are considerably weakened. Motion may possibly be of service, it may at least be tried ; but, as it has less effect than any other of the usually prescribed sti- muli, it should be the last applied*. I would recommend to the opera- tor the same care in regulating the application of every one of these methods as I did before in that of heat, as each may have the same property of entirely destroying the feeble action which they have ex- cited, if administered in too great a proportion. Instead, therefore, of increasing and hastening the operations on the first signs of returning life being observed, as is usually done, I should wish them to be applied more gently and gradually, that their increase afterwards may be di- rected, as nearly as possible, in a degree proportioned to the powers as they arise. As the heart is commonly the last part that ceases to act, it is probably the first part that takes on the action of recovery. When * Electricity has been known to be of service, and should be tried when other methods have failed. It is probably the only method we have of immediately stimulating the heart; all other methods being more by sympathy. I have not mentioned injecting stimulating substances directly into the veins, though it might be supposed a proper ex- pedient, because, in looking over my experiments on that subject, I found none where animal life received increase by that method.