OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE 338 sity of posterior extremities, and allows of the proper shape for swim- ming. That the form may be preserved as much as possible, we find that all the projecting parts found in land animals of the same class are either entirely wanting, as the external ear; are placed internally, as the testicles; or are spread along under the skin, as the udder. The tail is flattened horizontally, which is contrary to that of fish^, this position of tail giving the direction to the animal in the progressive motion of the body. I shall not pursue this circumstance further than to apply it to those purposes in the animal oeconomy for which this par- ticular direction is intended. The two lateral fins, which are analogous to the anterior extremities in the quadruped, are commonly small, varying however in size, and seem to serve as a kind of oars. To ascertain the use of the fin on the back is probably not so easy, as the large whalebone and spermaceti whales have it not; one should otherwise conceive it is intended to preserve the animal from turning. I believe, like most animals, they are of a lighter colour on their belly than on their back; in some they are entirely white on the belly, and this white colour begins by a regular determined line, as in the gram- pus^, piked whale, &c.; in others, the white on the belly is gradually shaded into the dark colour of the back, as in the porpoise‘s. I have been informed that some of them are pied upwards and downwards^, or have the divisions of colour in a contrary direction. The element in which they live renders certain parts which are of importance in other animals useless in them, gives to some parts a dif- ferent action, and renders others of less account. The puncta lachrymalia with the appendages, as the sac and duct, are in them unnecessary; and the secretion from the lachrymal gland is not water, but mucus, as it also is in the turtle; and we may sup- pose only in small quantity, the gland itself being small. The urinary bladder is smaUer than in quadrupeds, and indeed there is not any apparent reason why whales should have one at all. The tongue is flat and but little projecting, as they neither have voice * [Tliis difference in the position of the tail-fin relates chiefly to the difference be- tween the whale and fish in the mode and amount of respiration ; the w^arm-blooded whale requiring a frequent ascent to the surface of the water to breathe the air, wliich the horizontal tail enables it to do. In the air-breathing Ichthyosaurus, the presence of a pair of horizontal flattened posterior paddles, for directing the snout to the surface of the w'ater, enabled that extinct reptile to have lungs in combination with the ver- tical tail of the fish.] [See Plate XLIV.] " [See Plate XLV.] ^ [This irregular distribution of the dark and light shades is remarkable in the P/io- ceena Rissoana of Fred. Cuvier.]