PREFACE. XXXV ‘‘ Kidneys, in the lower part of the abdomen. No bladder*. Parts of generation, two penises, grooved f, which are in the tail. Some oviparous, eggs without shells ; others viviparous, but not as the First Class. “ Some have legs, others none ; some a membrana tympani, which is convex outwardly, as the lizard; others none, as the snake. The other part of this class, which may be termed the Fourth, or the Amphibious, are more closely allied to Fish than what the fish of the first class are J. These are the common amphibious animals, viz. frogs, turtles, efts, &c. This is also very similar to the two former, and is nearly, as it were, a mix- ture of both, yet the most essential parts belong, or are similar to the last. Heart, two auricles, as in the Third; one ventricle, as in the Third; aorta, as in the Third. Lungs, as in the Third. Kidneys, as in the Third. ‘‘ Parts of generation, one penis, as in the Second Class; penis grooved, as in the Second and Third. Some ovi- parous, as the frog; others viviparous, as the sala- mander. Organ of hearing, some have a membrana tympani, as the frog; others none, as the tortoise§. The Fourth or Fifth Class (according as the two prece- ding are regarded as subdivisions of one class, or as two distinct classes) consists of Fishes, and is very distinct from the former so far as I know.” The manuscript from which the preceding remarkable pas- sages are quoted, and which is printed entire in my Prefatory Observations to the Third Volume of the Physiological Cata- logue, contains no characters of the Class of Fishes, nor any * This character is not applicable to the lizards; but the crocodile agrees with the serpents in having no urinary bladder. f The crocodile has but one. X i. e. Those of the first class which are shaped like fish, and live in water, as the Cetacea. § The turtles and tortoises, or Chelonian reptiles, as they are now termed, have a closer affinity to the lizards than to the Batrachia, or frogs and salamanders. C^