XVll PREFACE. VOL. IV. b In the ^second class ’ the brain lies in the head of the animal; it is a pulpy substance, somewhat transparent, which gives it a bluish cast; from its lower part go out two large nerves, one passes on each side of the oesophagus, and they then unite into one, forming a knot at their union; they disunite again, and so unite and disunite alternately through the whole length of the animal, at every union giving ofF the nerves as from the brain. This structure, Hunter says, he suspects to answer both the use of a medulla spinalis and the great intercostal nerve. The examples of the class of animals adduced by Hunter as being characterized by this essential form of the nervous sy- stem are the leech, earthworm, aphrodita, centipede, caterpillar, scorpion, and lobster. Subsequent researches have shown that it exists in the barnacles, or Cirripedia, which most zoologists now rank in the same primary division with the Anellides, In- sects, Arachnidans, and Crustaceans. In the first class of animals in this neurological arrange- ment (for in enunciating general propositions respecting any given organ the comparative anatomist becomes involuntarily, as it were, a classificator of animals as well as organs,) Hunter observes, “ we had the brain surrounded by soft parts only. In the second it was closely surrounded by soft parts, but these were surrounded by hard. In the ‘ third class ’ the brain has a case of hard parts for itself, called the skull.” Now when Hunter made a brain relatively larger than in his first two classes—protected by a skull,—and continuous with a medulla spinalis extended down the back, and an endowment of the five senses,—the essential neurological characters of his third class of animals,—he erred in not applying them to his fourth, fifth, and sixth classes, as an attribute common to all, and one which distinguished each alike from the two lower classes. The appreciation of the great natural group characterized by a brain and spinal chord, situated on the dorsal aspect of the body, and protected by a vertebral case, was reserved for the sagacious penetration of Cuvier. However, in so far as Hunter limits his generalizations to the brain alone, he is consistent with himself, and exact in the differential characters which he points out. The brain in fish, for example, or his ‘ third class/ is a very irregular mass, incon-