448 OBSERVATIONS ON BEKS. The experiment of producing a queen bee from a maggot was repeated every month of the year, even in November* * * §. “ A maggot three days old was procured from a friend, inclosed in an ordinary cell, and shut up with a piece of comb, containing eggs and maggots. That three days old was formed into a queen, and all the other maggots and eggs were destroyedf. In above a hundred experiments a queen has been formed from maggots three days oldf.” Wilhelmi observes that a queen cell, which is made while the bees are shut up, is formed by breaking down three common cells into one, wlien the maggot is placed in the centre, after which the sides are re- paired. A young queen lately hatched was put into a hive, which had been previously ascertained to contain no drones, and whose queen was re- moved; and yet the young queen laid eggs§. In repeating Mr. Schi- rach’s experiment, he shut up four pieces of comb, with one maggot in each ; after two days the maggots were all dead, and the bees had de- sisted from labourij. A piece of comb from which all the eggs and maggots had been re- moved, was shut up with some honey and a certain number of workers ; in a short time they became very busy, and upon the evening of the second day three hundred eggs w^ere found in the cells^. He repeated this experiment with the same result, and the bees were left to them- selves ; they placed queen maggots in the queen cells, newly constructed, and others in male cells ; the rest were left undisturbed. He again took two pieces of comb which contained neither eggs nor maggots, and shut them up with a certain number of workers, and carried the box into a stove; next evening, one of the pieces of comb contained several eggs, and the beginning of a royal cell that w^as empty. * In which month, as bees never swarm, there could be no occasion for mothers, or supernumerary queens, and still each experiment produced a handsome queen. This is as singular an observation as any. In this country, and in all similar ones, bees hardly breed after July, and by the beginning of September there is hardly a chrysalis to be seen ; yet these bred till November, and even laid eggs. t Why did the bees destroy them in this experiment, and not in others ? J The working bees from the above experiments are considered as all females, although the ovaria are too small for examination. It would appear that a maggot three days old was of the best age for this experi- ment, yet one should have conceived that a maggot two days old would soon be fit. § There is no mystery in this ; but did they hatch ? II This is the most probable event in the whole experiments. % This would show that labourers can be changed into queens at will, and that neither they nor their eggs require to be impregnated; if this was the case, there would be no occasion for all the push in making a queen or a male.