153 ON ANIMALS PRODUCING HEAT. tion, while the other ear continued in its usual degree of cold. The day following the frozen ear was still warm; and even two days after retained its heat and thickness, which continued for many days after. About a week after this, the mixture being the same as in the former experiment, I introduced the ears of the same rabbit through the hole, and froze them both : the sound one however froze first, probably from its being considerably colder at the beginning. When withdrawn they soon thawed, both soon became warm, and the fresh ear thickened as the other had done before. Such a change in the parts does not always take place so quickly; for on repeating the experiment on the ear of another rabbit till it be- came as hard as a board, it was found to be longer in thawing than in the former experiment, and much longer before it became warm ; in two hours, however, it had acquired some degree of warmth, and on the day following was hot and thickened. In the spring, 1776, I perceived that my cocks in the country had their combs smooth, with an even edge, and not so broad as formerly, appearing as if near one half of them had been cut off. Having inquired into the cause of this, my servant told me that it had happened in that winter during the hard frost, he having then observed that the combs had in part dropped off, also that the comb of one cock had en- tirely separated; but this I did not see, as by accident he was burnt to death. I naturally imputed this effect to the combs having been frozen to so great a degree during the severe weather as to have the life of the part destroyed. To determine, therefore, by experiment, the solidity of this reasoning, I made the following experiment. I selected for the purpose a very large young cock, having a comb of considerable breadth, with deep serrated edges, the processes of which were full half an inch long. My attempts to freeze the sub- stance of the comb did not succeed; for that, being thick and warm, resisted the effects of the cold, and only the serrated edges were frozen. The frozen parts became white and hard, and when I cut off a little bit did not bleed, nor did the animal show any signs of pain. I next immersed in the cold mixture one of his wattles, which was very broad and thin; it froze very readily; and upon thawing both the comb and wattle they became warm, but of a purple colour, having lost that trans- parency which remained in the other parts of the comb and in the other wattle. The wound in the comb now bled freely. Both comb and wattle recovered perfectly in about a month. The natural colour returned first nearest to the sound parts, increasing gra- dually till the whole had acquired a healthy appearance.