460 OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. them, which are now more distinct, and give the duct a sort of inter- rupted appearance toward the lower end. The six ducts, when full of eggs, make a kind of quadrangle, then all unite into one duct, which enters the duct common to it and the oviducts of the other side. The ducts common to the six oviducts on each side are extremely tender, so much so that it is difficult to save them. The duct common to those on both sides may be called the vagina, and it is continued to the anus or termination of the belly. Of the Male Parts. , The male parts of generation in the common bee are much larger than in the humble bee. This we suppose necessary, considering the vast number of eggs the common bee lays more than the humble bee does. The external parts of generation of the male bee are rather more un- der the belly than in the others of this tribe, not so much at the termina- tion of the belly, and they are rather more exposed, the two last scales, especially the under one, not projecting so much; the two holders are not so projecting beyond their base, nor are they so hooked or sharp as in the humble bee; hardly deserving the name of holders. From the external parts passes up into the abdomen a pretty large sheath, whose termination incloses the glans penis. It is a bulbous part, having a dark-coloured horny part upon it, which has two processes near its opening externally, one on each side, of a yellow colour; it has another process, which is white, and seems to be a gland. It can be made to pass along this sheath or prepuce, and appear externally: I have been able, with a pair of forceps, to invert the sheath, beginning externally at the mouth, and pulling out a little at a time, by shifting my hold, till the glans has appeared externally. The internal parts are the testicles, with their appendages. The tes- ticles are two small oblong bodies, lying near the back, having a vast number of air-vessels passing into them, and ramifying upon them. They are of a pale yellowish colour. From their lower ends pass down ducts, which may be called vasa deferenlia, and which enter two bags: these two bags, into which the vasa deferentia enter, are probably re- servoirs for the semen. From the union of these two bags passes out a duct, which runs towards the termination of the abdomen, and ends in the penis. These three parts, namely, testicles with their ducts, the two bags, and the duct arising from them, which I have termed urethra, are all folded on each other, so as to appear as one body. In the introduction to this account of bees I observed, that several