330 OF THE WOLF, JACKAL, AND DOG. a quick motion is made before her. Of her inches she is uncommonly fleet, much more so than any dog I ever saw. She can turn a rabbit in the field; she is folid of stealing away and lying about the adjacent meadows, where her favourite amusement is hunting the field-mouse, which she catches in a particular manner.” As animals are known to produce young which are different from themselves in colour, form, and dispositions, arising from what may be called the unnatural mode of life, it shows this curious power of accom- modation in the animal oeconomy, that although education can produce no change in the colour, form, or disposition of the animal, yet it is ca- pable of producing a principle which becomes so natural to the animal that it shall beget young different in colour'^ and form, and so altered in disposition as to be more easily trained up to the offices in which they have been usually employed, and having these dispositions suit- able to such change of form. It also becomes a question, whether they would not go back again to their original state, if put into the situation of the original from whence they sprang; or acquire a form resembling the original of that country where they are placed. I do not conceive that they must necessarily go back through the same changes ; but I have some reason to suppose they would gradually return to a resemblance of that original. And it would be difficult to prove whether, in many of the gradations, they are progressive or retrograde. But this is a subject that requires par- ticular attention and investigation, and upon which I hope, some time or other, to be able to throw more light. * [This has recently been exemplified in the produce of a male and female Dingo, or wild dog of Australia, brought forth at the Zoological Gardens, and under circum- stances which precluded the possibility of connection between the female and any other dog than the male with which she was kept confined. Two, out of the litter of five puppies brought forth, had the uniform red-brown colour of the parents, the rest were more or less pied, brown and white.] ^ [If the wolf were actually the original of the dog, it might have been expected that the Dingo of Australia, supposing it to have originated from some dog accidentally in- troduced into that continent, would have been found reverted to its original condition, or as a wolf. But there appears to have been no further progress towards the acqui- sition of the characters of the wolf, in this instance, than may be supposed, on the theory of reversion, to have taken place in the time of Cook. The existence of wild dogs which are not wolves, as the Dingo of Australia and the Dhole of India, which have eithei lost or have never acquired the common character of domestication, vari- ety of colour, is itself a strong argument against the original of the domestic dog ever having been a wolf.]