286 ON THE LATE MR. HUNTEr’s PREPARATION SOME FACTS RELATIVE TO THE LATE MR. JOHN HUN- TER’S PREPARATION FOR THE CROONIAN LECTURE. By Everard Home, Esq., F.R.S. [Read November 14, 1793.] Mr. HUNTER having announced to the Royal Society that he would make the structure of the crystalline humour of the eye the sub- ject of the Croonian lecture for the present year, and having, unfortu- nately for science, died before his observations on that subject were rendered complete, I feel it a duty I owe to his memory as well as to the Society, to state the facts respecting this humour with which he had acquainted me; and shall subjoin an unfinished letter from Mr. Hunter to Sir Joseph Banks on the same subject. It is now many years that Mr. Hunter has had an idea that the cry- stalline humour was enabled by its own internal actions to adjust itself, so as to adapt the eye to different distances; and when the Tania hydatigena^ first came under his observation as a living animal, he was surprised to see the quantity of contraction that took place in a mem- brane devoid of muscular fibres, but made use of the fact in his investi- gation of the structure of the crystalline humour of the eye. Some time after this, having occasion to dissect the eye of the cuttle- fish, which he had frequently done before, but not with exactly the same view, he discovered in the crystalline humour a structure which corresponded with the idea he had formed of its actions in the human eye. He found it composed of laminae, whose appearance was evidently fibrous for some depth from the external surface ; but becoming less and less distinct, till at last this fibrous appearance was entirely lost, and the middle, or central part of the humour, was compact and trans- parent, without any visible laminae. From this structure it would appear that in the eye of the cuttle-fish the exterior parts of the humour are fibrous, the interior parts not; so that the central part is a nucleus round which the fibrous coverings are placed. The preparations which demon- strate these facts will be laid before the Society'^. As the structure of the crystalline humour in the cuttle-fish differs in nothing from that of the same humour in other animals but in the * [The hydatid commonly found in the abdominal cavity of the sheep,—Cysticercus tenuicoUis, Rudolphi.] [The Hunterian preparations demonstrating the peculiarities of the eye of the cuttle-fish arc not fewer than twenty. See Physiological Catalogue, vol. iii. p. 140.f