OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING IN FISHES. 296 jack, which has two cavities, we find in one of them ‘ (the accessory sacculus of the vestibule,)’ two bones, and in the other * (the ordinary sacculus of the vestibule,)’ one; in the ray there is only a chalky sub- stance*. In some fishes the external communication, or meatus, enters at the union of the two perpendicular canals, which is the case with all the ray kind, the external orifice being small, and placed on the upper flat surface of the head; but it is not every genus or species of fishes that have the external opening^. The nerves of the ear pass outwards from the brain, and appear to terminate at once on the external surface of the enlarged part of the semicircular tubes above described‘s. They do not appear to pass through these tubes so as to get on the inside, as is supposed to be the case in quadrupeds; I should therefore very much suspect that the lining of the tubes in the quadruped is not nerve, but a kind of internal pe- riosteum. As it is evident that fishes possess the organ of hearing, it becomes unnecessary to make or relate any experiment made with living fishes, which only tends to prove this fact; but I wdll mention one experiment, to show that sounds affect them much, and is one of their guards, as it is in other animals. In the year 1762, when I was in Portugal, I ob- served in a nobleman’s garden, near Lisbon, a small fish-pond full of dilferent kinds of fish. The bottom was level wdth the ground, the pond having been made by forming a bank all round, and had a shrubbery close to it. Whilst I lay on the bank observing the fish swimming about, I desired a gentleman who was with me to take a loaded gun and fire it from behind the shrubs. The reason for desiring him to go behind the shrubs was, that there might not be the least reflection of ^ This chalky substance is also found in the ears of amphibious animals*. * [In these it is lodged in a sn^all blind sac, communicating with the vestibule, and representing the cochlea in a rudimental state. In the ray also, the vestibule, after receiving the orifices of the semicircular canals, opens into a large oval sac, which gives off two appendages, one anterior, the other posterior ; this sac is analogous to the rudi- mental cochlea in reptiles, as is also the sacculus vestibuli in the osseous fishes.] [Hunter had a dravring made of these orifices in the monk-fish {Squatina Angelus, Dum.), which has been engraved and published in the third volume of the Physiologi- cal Catalogue of the Hunterian Museum, pi. xxxiii. fig. 1, a.] ® [The acoustic nerve comes off from the brain, nearly opposite the junction of the sacculus with the vestibule ; it sends off from its upper part a filament to each of the semicircular canals : this filament penetrates the ampulla of the canal to which it ap- pertains, and is there lost. Another division of the nerve goes to the vestibule, but by far the greatest part of it spreads out into a number of filaments which form a very ])eautifid apparatus, under the parictes of the sac which contains the large stone.]