343 AND (ECONOMY OF WHALES. the carpus, metacarpus, and fingers is different from that of the qua- druped, not being by capsular ligament, but by intermediate cartilages connected to each bone. These cartilages between the different bones of the fingers are of considerable length, being nearly equal to one half of that of the bone : and this construction of the parts gives firmness, with some degree of pliability to the whole. As this order of animals cannot be said to have a pelvis, they of course have no os sacrum, and therefore the vertebrae are continued on to the end of the tail, but with no distinction between those of the loins and tail. But as those vertebrae alone would not have had sufficient surface to give rise to the muscles requisite to the motion of the tail, there are bones added to the fore part of some of the first vertebrae of the tail®, similar to the spinal processes on the posterior surface. From all these observations we may infer that the structure, forma- tion, arrangement, and the union of the bones which compose the forms of parts in this order of animals are much upon the same principle as in quadrupeds. The flesh or muscles of this order of animals is red, resembling that of most quadrupeds, perhaps more like that of the bull or horse than any other animal; some of it is very firm, and about the breast and belly it is mixed with tendon. Although the body and tail is composed of a series of bones con- nected together and moved as in fish, yet it has its movements pro- duced by long muscles, with long tendons, which renders the body thicker, while the tail at its stem is smaller than that of any other swimmer, whose principal motion is the same. Why this mode of ap- plying the moving powers should not have been used in fish is probably not so easily answered ; but in fish the muscles of the body are of nearly the same length as the vertebrae. The depressor muscles of the tail, which are similar in situation to the psoae, make two very large ridges on the lower part of the cavity of the belly, rising much higher than the spine, and the lower part of the aorta passes between them. These two large muscles, instead of being inserted into two ex- tremities as in the quadruped, go to the tail, which may be consi- ^ [These bones protect the great vascular trunk below, as the upper processes pro- tect the spinal chord above, the bodies of the vertebrae. The former or inferior arches are termed by Geofiroy paraaux, or paravertebral elements; the latter the periaux, or perivertebral elements. I have proposed to denominate those which protect the vascular trunks ‘ aimapophyses ’; those which protect the nervous trunk ‘ neurapophyses’. The aimapophyses are articulated in the Cetacea at the interspaces of the bodies of the vertebrae, and connected with the inters ertebral substance. In the dorsal verte- brae of the tortoise, and in the sacrum of the ostrich, the neurapophyses, or superior arches, are similarly placed with respect to the vertebral centres or bodies.]