AN ACCOUNT OF THE GYMNOTUS ELECTRICUS. 415 brane passing from the spine to that fin which runs along the belly or lower edge of the animal. This membrane is broad at the end next to the head, terminating in a point at the tail; it is a support for the ab- dominal fin, gives a greater surface of support for the organ, and makes a partition between the organs of the two opposite sides. The Organs, The organs which produce the peculiar effect of this fish constitute nearly one half of that part of the flesh in which they are placed, and perhaps make more than one-third of the whole animal. There are two pair of these organs, a larger and a smaller, one being placed on each side. The large pair occupy the whole lower or anterior, and also the lateral part of the body, making the thickness of the fore or lower parts of the animal; and run almost through its whole length, viz. from the abdomen to near the end of the tail *. It is broadest on the sides of the fish at the anterior end, where it incloses more of the lateral parts of the body, becomes narrower towards the end of the tail, occupying less and less of the sides of the animal, till at last it ends almost in a point. These two organs are separated from one another at the upper part by the muscles of the back, which keep their posterior or upper edges at a considerable distance from one another f; below that, and towards the middle, they are separated by the air-bag J, and at their lower parts they are separated by the middle partition ยง. They begin forwards by a pretty regular edge, almost at right angles with the lon- gitudinal axis of the body, situated on the lower and lateral parts of the abdomen. Their upper edge is a pretty straight line, with small in- dentations made by the nerves and blood vessels which pass round it to the skin. At the anterior end they go as far towards the back as the middle line of the animal, but in their approach towards the tail they gradually leave that line, coming nearer to the lower surface of the animal. The general shape of the organ, on an external or side view, is broad at the end next to the head of the animal, becoming gradually narrower towards the tail, and ending there almost in a point. The other surfaces of the organ are fitted to the shape of the parts with which they come in contact, therefore on the upper and inner surface it is hollowed to receive the muscles of the back. There is also a longi- tudinal depression on its lower edge, where a substance lies which di- * PL LVI. fig. 1. K K K. t PL LVII. fig. 5. c c c c. X PL LVII. fig. 5. d. ยง PL LVII. fig. 5. K.