362 OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE stomachs they come nearest to that order ; but here I suspect that the order of digestion is in some degree inverted. In both the ruminants, and this tribe, I think it must be allowed that the first stomach is a reserv'oir. In the ruminants the precise use of the second and third stomachs is perhaps not known; but digestion is certainly carried on in the fourth; while in this tribe, I imagine, digestion is performed in the second^, and the use of the third and fouith is not exactly ascer- tained. The caecum and colon do not assist in pointing out the nature of the food and mode of digestion in this tribe. The porpoise, which has teeth and four cavities to the stomach, has no caecum, similar to some land animals, as the bear, badger, racoon, ferret, polecat, &c.; neither has the bottle-nose a caecum which has only two small teeth in the lower jaw; and the piked whale, which has no teeth, has a caecum, almost exactly like the lion, which has teeth and a very dilferent kind of sto- mach. The food of the whole of this tribe, I believe, is fish ; probably each may have a particular kind of which it is fondest, yet does not refuse a variety. In the stomach of the large bottle-nose I found the beaks of some hundreds of cuttle-fish. In the grampus I found the tail of a porpoise; so that they eat their own genus. In the stomach of the piked whale I found the bones of different fish, but particularly those of the dog-fish From the size of the oesophagus "we may conclude that they do not swallow fish so large in proportion to their size as many fish do that we have reason to believe take their food in the same way ; for fish often attempt to swallow what is larger than their stomachs can at one time contain, and part remains in the oesophagus till the rest is digested. The epiploon on the whole is a thin membrane ; on the right side it is rather a thin network‘d, though on the left it is a complete mem- brane, and near to the stomach of the same side becomes of a consider- able thickness, especially between the two first bags of the stomach. It has little or no fat, except what slightly covers the vessels in parti- cular parts. It is attached forwards, all along to the lower part of the different bags constituting the stomach, and on the right to the root of * [It is doubtless performed in great part by the secretion of the second, but as be- fore observed, the act is fai* advanced in the first cavity.] [In the stomach of the porpesse I have found the bones of an eel, and of a floun- der ; these were in the first cavity. The great sperm whale is nourished principally by mollusca of the class of Cephalopods, and their beaks seem to form the nuclei of the intestinal concretions, called ‘ ambergris.’] ® [It presents this reticulate structure in tlie otter.]