OF PERSONS APPARENTLY DROWNED. 165 PROPOSALS FOR THE RECOVERY OF PERSONS APPA- RENTLY DROWNED ^ Having been requested by a principal member of the society esta- blished for the recovery of persons apparently drowned to commit my thoughts on that subject to paper, I readily complied, hoping, that al- though I have had no opportunities of making actual experiments upon drowned persons, it might be in my power to throw some lights on a subject so closely connected with the inquiries which for many years have been my business and favourite amusement: I therefore collected together my observations and experiments relative to the loss and re- covery of the actions of life, which I now offer to the public. The en- deavour to recover persons apparently drowned is a new practice, and has furnished, as yet, few important and clear facts: our knowledge of the animal oeconomy is so imperfect, that I am afraid our reasoning from that alone must not be relied on in a question so interesting to the cause of humanity. But let us reason as well as w^e can from the few data we have, and let every man bring forward, freely, the observations he has made, that the subject thus fairly before the public may in time, by its united efforts, be more perfectly understood. I shall consider an animal apparently drowned as not dead, but that only a suspension of the actions of life has taken place. The difference between a suspension of the actions of life and absolute death is well illustrated by the common snail when drowning. If a snail is immersed in water and kept there, certain voluntary and instinctive actions take place ; but after remaining a certain time covered by the water, all these actions cease. Hence the animal, being relaxed, naturally comes out of the shell in that state ; its stomach is filled with water, and the body appears larger than natural, but without motion. These actions con- tinue thus suspended till either the cause of suspension be removed or some other stimulus shall bring the parts into action : but under such circumstances life cannot be preserved for any considerable length of time ; and when the stimulus which precedes death takes place, the whole animal is thrown into action, and in that contracted state, possibly, ab- solute death is produced. A state of relaxation should therefore (where [From the Philosophical Transactions, vol. Ixvi.; read March 21, 1776.]