OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. 88 “The hedgehog’, while the heat of the stomach was at 30°, had nei- ther desire for food, nor power of digesting it; but when increased by inflammation in the abdomen to 93°, the animal seized a toad which hapj)ened to be in the room, and upon being offered some bread and milk, it immediately ate it. The heat roused up the actions of the animal oeconomy; and the parts being unable to carry on these actions without being supplied with nourishment, the stomach was stimulated to digest, to afford them that supply.’^ Spallanzani also mentions the slowness of digestion in serpents, and quotes Bomare, who gives an account of a serpent at Martinico, in whose stomach a chicken had remained for three months without being completely digested, the feathers still adhering to the skin*. The truth of this fact I should very much doubt, especially in so warm a climate as that of Martinico, where I must suppose the digestive powers to be constantly required ; unless there is in Martinico, as in colder climates, a torpid season^, where the act of digestion is not necessary; but in that case the serpent would not have swallowed the chicken. At Belleisle, in the beginning of the winter 1761-2,1 conveyed worms and pieces of meat down the throats of lizards when they were going into winter quarters, keeping them afterwards in a cool place. On opening them at different periods I always found the substances which I had introduced entire, and without any alteration: sometimes they were in the stomach ; at other times they had passed into the intestine ; and some of the lizards that were preserved alive voided them towards the spring, with but very little alteration in their structure. So that digestion is regulated by the other actions of the body : warmth requires action suitable to that warmth ; the body requires nourishment suitable to that action ; and the stomach being called upon, performs the office of digestion. - Nothing can show more clearly that the secretion of the gastric juice is increased in proportion to the call for nourishment in the body, than what happened to Admiral Byron and Captains Cheap and Hamilton, when shipwrecked on the west coast of South America, who, after suffering months of hunger and fatigue, were reduced to skin and bone ; yet when they came to good living, Byron thus expresses himselff: “ He (viz. the * Bomare, Diet. d'Histoire Nat. E Page 181. * [This conjecture is true ; the dry season in some tropical climes is that during which reptiles and insects retire to their hiding-places and become torpid ; they are awakened and called into activity by the showers of the rainy season. The tenrec, a mammiferous animal of Madagascar and the Mauritius, resembling the hedgehog, also sleeps in a state of lethargy from April to November, when the mean temperature exceeds our summer heat.]