272 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 'J'lie epicure is no less sensible of the effects of these causes of firm- ness than the physiologist, and therefore prefers the inactive parts ; and the leg of the woodcock, the breast of a partridge, pheasant, turkey, &c. are held in high estimation. He even takes pains to diminish the effects which arise from exercise, &c., by feeding animals in such a way as to prevent them taking place. Upon this principle house lamb, veal, &c. are made tender. How delicious to the sensualist must the flesh of the sloth be, if the account of its motion being far exceeded by a snail is true! From the above account it must appear that muscles, in proportion as they are firm in texture, will be strong in action; it is at least de- monstrable in the muscles of the same animal whose texture is different, and in similar muscles in the male and female of the same species, and we may reasonably suppose that it will hold good in different spe- cies ; and therefore, when we find the muscles very firm in any one spe- cies, we may conclude that this species is stronger than any other species in which the muscles are tender and soft. This firmness in a muscular fibre we may suppose to arise from the density of its component parts, or those parts being closer together, the uniting medium being less in quantity; this, however, it is perhaps im- possible to determine exactly. * That this idea may be better understood, I shall suppose that a part composed of dense parts (aggregated) at a given distance, will be firmer than a part composed of less firm parts at the same distance ; and it is plain that a part composed of any given substance will be dense in pro- portion as the parts of that substance are near to each other. It may probably be similar to iron and steel; in the iron the parts or crystals which compose the mass are large, and perhaps not regular. In the steel they are small, and probably more regular in their figure, by which means they can adapt themselves better to each other, and still more so if tempered, according to the degree of temper, so that their crystals shall become still smrdler, and of course the whole becomes harder. To ascertain whether the firm muscles really contained more matter, and were therefore specifically heavier than the soft, I made several experiments upon muscles of different densities. The experiments were made upon the same muscle of two animals of the same species, whose muscles are of different densities, viz. the muscles of the neck of the ox and bull*. * My reason for choosing those muscles in preference to others was, that they admit a greater degree of difference in firmness, and that they have no tendons intermixed, so as to give density from that cause.