262 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. Muscles have a disposition to throw themselves into wrinkles or cor- rugations when not in action, and when the position of the part moved by these muscles is such as allows the muscle to be in its shortest state, as in the biceps-flexor-cubiti after having bent the arm. If it is kept in that position by any other power, the biceps will leave acting and fall into wrinkles, adapting itself to the short distance between its origin and insertion; so that these wrinkles are a kind of substitute for the contraction that was in the muscle. The greatest strength in a muscle while in action is probably when it is half contracted, as we find that in all great exertions of muscular strength, where ultimate actions are to take place, the muscles employed are never allowed to relax their full relaxation, or contract to their full contraction. When a man walks with a heavy load his knees are a little bent, even of the leg he stands upon, which supports the whole while he is moving the other. The same thing takes place if he is weary; but if strong and in full activity his perpendicular joints may be kept pretty straight. The same thing also takes place in old people from the same cause; for as they become naturally weak, they become', like the strong, loaded with a heavy burden, therefore take on the same modes of action: the knees are never straightened, the back bent forwards, and all the parts that are constantly in the action of support are all getting out of the perpendicular, in which perpendicular state, although they might be mechanically stronger, yet they are muscularly weaker, therefore get into that position in which the muscles can act with the greatest ad- vantage. The relaxers, which become the sustainers of the muscles in action, never allow themselves to relax to their full extent while the contractors are carrying on the motion of a part, as it would produce weakness. The relaxation of muscles when contracted involuntarily, but from obnoxious stimuli, will not relax by the will; nothing but a counter- a wavy or zigzag position : but this is characteristic of their state of relaxation under the circumstances which bring their two attached extremities nearer each other. In like manner, in the parallel longitudinal fibres of the Filaria, it is most evident that, at the moment of contraction, they become shorter and thicker, but do not alter their rectilinear position until the action has ceased, when they fall, like the parallel nervous chord, into zigzag folds, which continue until effaced by the restoration of the part to its usual length through the action of the exterior transverse fibres. On relating these observations to my friend Dr. Allen Thompson, he informed me that, on repeating the experiment of Hales and Prevost on the frog, he had observed single fibres continuing in contraction, and being simply shortened, and not falling into the zigzag plicae; and he was led to suspect, from this and other appearances, that the zigzag arrangement was not produced till after the act of contraction had ceased.}