131 ON ANIMALS PRODUCING HEAT. EXPERIMENTS AND OBSERVATIONS ON ANIMALS, WITH RESPECT TO THE POWER OF PRODUCING HEAT^ Some late ingenious experiments and observations, published in the Philosophical Transactions^, upon a power which animals seem to pos- sess of generating cold, induced me to look over my notes, containing some which I had made in the year 1766, indicating an opposite power in animals, whereby they are capable of resisting any external cold while alive, by generating within themselves a degree of heat sufficient to counteract it. Those experiments were not originally instituted with any expectation of the event which resulted from them, but for the purpose of satisfying myself whether an animal could retain life after being frozen, as has been confidently asserted both of fishes and snakes. For that these, after being frozen, still retain so much of life as when thawed to resume their vital actions, is a fact so well attested that we are l)ound to believe it; and had my experiment succeeded, it was my intention to have tried the effects of freezing on living animals to a much greater degree than can ever happen accidentally. I mention these circumstances to account for what might otherwise be attributed to negligence and inattention, namely, the little nicety that was observed in measuring the precise degree of cold applied in the experiments. Accuracy in this particular was not aimed at, being of no consequence in the inquiry more immediately before me. The cold was first produced by means of ice and snow with sal ammoniac or sea- salt, to about the 10° of Fahrenheit’s thermometer : ice was then mixed with spirit of nitre; but what degree of cold was thus produced I did not examine. This cold mixture was made in a tub surrounded with woollen cloths, and covered with the same, to prevent the effects of the heat of the atmosphere upon the mixture itself, and to preserve, as much as possible, a cold atmosphere within the vessel. Animal juices, as the blood, freeze at 25°, so that a piece of dead flesh could be frozen in an atmosphere cooled to that point. * [This Essay includes the greater part of two papers, one published with the title * Experiments on Animals and Vegetables, with respect to the Power of producing Heat,’ in the Philosophical Transactions, vol. Ixv. (read June 22, 1775); the other, ‘On the Heat, &c. of Animals and Vegetables,’ in the Philosophical Transactions, vol. Ixviii. (read June 19, and Nov. 13, 1777.)] [‘ Experiments and Observations in a heated Room,’ by Charles Blagden, M.D., F.R.S., vol. Ixv. p. 111.] k2