377 AND (ECONOMY OF WHALES. the surface of the water by every inspiration, as animals do on land ; and probably they may : but this will not give them the power to smell the odoriferous particles of their prey in the water at any depth ; and as their organ is not fitted to be affected by the application of water, and as they cannot suck water into the nostril without the danger of its passing into the lungs, it cannot be by its application to this organ that they are enabled to smell. Some have the power of throwing the water from the mouth through the nostril, and with such force as to raise it thirty feet high : this must answer some important purpose, although not immediately evident to us. As the organ appears to be formed to smell air only, and as I conceive the smelling of the external air could not be of use as a sense, I there- fore believe that they do not smell in inspiration; yet let us consider how they may be supposed to smell the odoriferous particles of the water. The organ of smell is out of the direct road of the current of air in inspiration; it is also out of the current of water when they spout; may we not suppose then, that this sinus contains air, and as the water passes in the act of throwing it out, that it impregnates this reservoir of air, which immediately affects the sense of smell ? This operation is probably performed in the time of expiration, because it is said that this w’ater is sometimes very offensive ; but all this I only give as conjecture. If the above solution is just, then only those which have the organ of smell can spout, a fact worthy of inquiry. The organ of smell would appear to be less necessary in these ani- mals than in those which live in air, since some are wholly deprived of it; and the organ in those which have it is extremely small, when compared with that of other animals, as well as the nerve which is to receive the impression, as was observed above^. ® [It is singular that Mr. Hunter should not have added a description of the organ, the function of which is the subject of so many singular and original speculations in the preceding section. The olfactory nerve in the whalebone whale {Balcena Mysticetus) is solid, as in the human subject, but round, about half an inch in diameter at its narrowest part, and gradually swelling into a pyriform bulbous termination, from the fundus of which the divisions of the nerve pass otF through the foramina of the cribriform plate ; the larger of these foramina are from one to two lines in diameter, about twenty in number, and placed chiefly around the circumference of the cribriform plate ; there are two large ones in the centre which le'ad to the root of the middle spongy bone. The lamella itself is concave towards the fossa of the nerve. The nerves are lodged for some distance in a pecuhar cavity, surrounded by the cancellous diploe of the skull, leading from the cranial cavity to the cribriform plate. The turbinated bones are three in number, but are none of them distinct, merely pro- jections from the side of the nasal cavity into its area. The middle one is the largest; besides its lateral adhesion, it is attached by a narrow pedicle to the cribriform plate,