OBSERVATIONS ON BEES. 422 OBSERVATIONS ON BEES'*. By John Hunter, F.R.S. Of the Common Bee. The common bee, from a number of peculiarities in its oeconomy, lias called forth the attention of the curious, and from the profit arising from its labours, it has become the object of the interested ; therefore no wonder it has excited universal attention, even from the savage to the most civilized people ; but it has'hardly been considered by the anato- mist, at least the two modes of investigation have not gone so much hand in hand as they ought to have done. The history of the bee has rather been considered as a fit subject for the curious at large, whence more has been conceived than observed. Swammerdam, indeed, has rather erred on the other side, having with great industry been very minute on the particular structure of the bee. I shall here observe that it is commonly not only unnecessary to be mi- nute in our description of parts in natural history, but in general im- proper. It is unnecessary when it does not apply to anything but the thing itself, more especially if it be of no consequence ; but whenever it ajiplies, then it should so far be treated accurately. Minutiae beyond what is essential, tire the mind, and render that which should entertain along with instruction heavy and disagreeable ; the more so too if the parts are small, where the sense can only take them in singly, and the ~ mind can hardly comprehend the whole or apply all the parts combined to any consequent^ action. This has been too much the case with Swammerdam ; he often attempted too much accuracy in his description of minute things But the natural history of insects has not been suf- ficiently understood at large, so as to throw light on this subject where there was an analogy, and where without such analogy, it must appear ^ [This paper was read before the Royal Society, February 23, 1792, and published in the 82nd volume of the Philosophical Transactions.] ^ [If the objects of the comparative anatomist were limited to the elucidation of the function of the organs he disseeted, there might then, perhaps, be some reason in the animadversions in the text; but his researches have a still higher aim, viz. to trace the general plan which pervades the construction of animals amidst the various modifica- tions to which each organ is subject in reference to particular functions ; and the study of organic homologies recpiires that attention be paid to the minutest particulars, inde- pendently of considci atiions as to the uses in the oeconomy to jvhich they may be sub- servient.]