OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. 109 that will hardly eat of more than one kind. Of this last sort are in- sects in general, and the silkworm will scarcely touch anything but mulberry leaves; but I believe those that live upon animal food are not so restricted in their choice. It is probable that all animal and vegetable substances are equally capable of being digested, if equally soft in their texture; but some being much firmer in that respect, and others also united with indiges- tible matter, as the earth in bones, more strongly resist the powers of the gastric juice; therefore mastication and trituration become neces- sary to bring them to a similar consistence. But substances may be rendered too soft, for a fluid is difficult of digestion; and we may ob- serve, that Nature having given us very few fluids as articles of food, to render these few fitter for the action of the digestive powers, a coa- gulating principle is provided to give them some degree of solidity *' It is not easy to assign a reason why fluidity should be unfavourable to the process of digestion, more especially as it seems essential to those of fermentation and chemical solution. The requisite degree of solidity I should suppose to be that of curd, or what is produced by the coagu - lation of animal mucilages, as of the white of an egg. But this is only supposition, founded on the idea that Nature’s general principles are right, and all the corresponding parts adapted to one another, except when monstrous, either in form or action. Mastication is the effect of a mechanical power, produced by parts particularly provided for that purpose, which are of various kinds, fitted for that sort of food on which the animal is by Nature intended to live, and may be imitated with equal advantage by many other pieces of mechanism. The masticating powers are of three kinds. The first is that which merely fits the substance for deglutition, as in the lion and many other carnivorous animals ; and which, in the ruminating tribe, renders the food fit to be swallowed, that it may undergo such preparation in the first stomach as is necessary before it is further masticated for diges- tion. The second is that which not only fits the food for deglutition, but exposes it to the action of the gastric juice, by breaking the shells * The circumstance of the crystalline humour, which is solid, being coagulated prior to its being digested, renders it probable that all animal substances go through that pro- cess, and that the loss of texture which they undergo arises from coagulation^. “ [This coagulation happens to all animal substances which contain albumen ; but it can hardly be considered. Dr. Prout observes, “ to be essential to the subsequent pro- cess ; for gelatine, a staminal alimentary principle, nearly resembling albumen in. its composition, undergoes, under similar circumstances, no such solidifying change. (Br. Tr.,p.494.)]