26 ON THE GLANDS CALLED VESICUL.E SEMINALES. The resemblance which obtains between these bags and the gall- bladder in the human subject by no means holds equally good when applied to other animals. In the horse they are like two^ small uri- nary bladders, almost loose and pendulous, with a partial coat from the peritonaeum, under which there are two layers of muscular fibres; they .are thicker in their coats at the fundus than any other part, and appear there to be glandular. Their openings into the urethra are very large, and although they open close to the vasa deferentia do not communi- cate with them. The septum between the two ducts is not continued on quite to the urethra, so that they cannot, in strict language, be said to enter that passage separately; but there is not length of common duct sufficient to admit of regurgitation from the vasa deferentia into these bags. They are not of the same size in the gelding and in the stone-horse, being large in the last. Their contents in both are exactly similar, and nearly equal in quantity; but in no way resembling the semen emitted by the stone-horse in the coitus, or what is found in the vas deferens after death. In the boar these bags are extremely large, and divided into cells of a considerable size; or they may more properly be said to form ramifi- cations closely connected with one another, and having a large canal or duct common to the whole. The ducts contain a whitish fluid, very unlike what is found in the vasa deferentia of the same animal, with which they have not the least communication**. In the rat the bags are large and flat, with serrated edges, and lie some way within the abdomen, containing a thick ash-coloured mucus, nearly of the consistence of soft cheese; very different from what is found in the vasa deferentia of the same animal, with which they do not communicate. ® [There is also in the horse a third vesicula seminalis, of a similar structure to the two lateral ones, between which it is situated, and having, like them, no communica- tion with the vasa deferentia. This want of correspondence therefore between the number of the vesiculae and that of the testes affords another argument against their having the relations to each other which exist between the gall-bladder and liver.] ^ [Tyson particularly notices the glandular structure of the vesiculae seminales in the peccari and boar, and was led by this circumstance to the same opinion respecting their nature and use as Mr, Hunter is endeavouring to establish by a more extensive and various induction in the present paper. “ John van Horn,” says Tyson, “ would have a threefold matter of the seed: one from the testes, the second from the vesiculae seminales, and a third from the prostates. But this De Graaf strongly opposes ; and will admit only that from the testes, which is transmitted to the vesiculae seminales, but not at all bred there. But in our subject, and so in some others, they being glandulous, they must therefore secrete some juice ; which, in all likelihood, is some way serviceable, though not prin- cipally, in generation.”—Anatomy of the Mexico Musk-hog, Phil. Trans., vol. xiii. p. 370^ 1683.]