104 OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. cari, the common hog, and the rat are likewise instances of this; and the same circumstance takes place, in a smaller degree, in the horse. This increase in the cavity of the stomach, beyond what is necessary for digestion alone, is peculiar to the animals that take in more food than is immediately wanted, or whose food is of a nature which requires a certain degree of preparation prior to digestion. The crop of the eagle, and perhaps the first stomach of the porpus, are of the first kind; the crop in the gallinaceous fowls, and the first stomach in ruminating animals, of the second^. It is the disposition of such animals to fill these cavities; and the quantity which they are capable of containing makes them seldomer require to be filled; it is probable, likewise, that it is the sensation excited by this fulness which gives satisfaction to the animal, and takes off the further desire for food, an effect similar to what is produced in other animals from filling the stomach itself; and these having no such provision, are longer and oftener employed in pursuit of food. I should be apt to consider the power of the gastric juice to coagu- late milk, and some other animal mucilages*, as a test of the stomach being the seat of digestion; for although milk may be coagulated by other substances, yet when found in that state in the stomach it is pro- bably for the purpose of digestion, milk and many other natural sub- stances requiring to be coagulated before they can be digested. I have found this coagulating power in the stomach of every animal that I have examined for that purpose, from the most perfect down to reptiles^; * Milk is the substance commonly known to be coagulated by the gastric juice; but 1 find that it has also the same power over the white of an egg. Give to a dog some raw egg, and kill him half an hour after he has swallowed it, the egg will be found co- agulated in his stomach, as if boiled. The crystalline humour in the stomachs of fishes is likewise found coagulated. * [According to this difference in their functions, we find that the crop of the eagle is relatively smaller than that of the fowl, and the passage of its contents to the stomach is more direct and easy. The first stomach of the porpus is still smaller in comparison with the rumen of the sheep; and besides acting as a storehouse for the food, digestion goes on in it to a considerable extent. This is effected, not by secretion from its own parietes, which, as Hunter observes, are lined with a cuticle, but most probably by the gastric juice regurgitated into it from the second stomach, which is highly glandular. The flesh of fish is found separated from the bones, and these in different stages of soft- ening, in the first stomach; indeed, the construction of the aperture of communication between the first and second stomachs of the porpus is such, that food can pass into the latter only in.a very comminuted state.] ^ [By “reptiles” there is reason to believe Mr. Hunter meant ‘creeping things,’ as insects and worms. The ‘lleptilia’ of modern naturalists he invariably calls by the Linnseau name ‘Amphibia,’ or by his own term, ‘ Tricoilia.’ In the Introduction to