95 OBSERVATIONS ON DIGESTION. anxious is he to combat the idea of its being fermentation, that he will hardly allow that fermentation ever takes place in the stomach. That fermentation can go on in the stomach there is no doubt; but when that happens, it arises from the powers of digestion being defective. Milk, vegetables of all kinds, wine, and whatever has sugar in its composition, become much sooner sour in some stomachs than they would if left to undergo a spontaneous change out of the body; and even spirits in par- ticular stomachs, almost immediately degenerate into a very strong acid. I am inclined to suppose that it is the sugar which is converted into spirit, and the spirit into acid; consequently a glass of brandy, from being much stronger, because less diluted, most probably contains as much matter likely to become acid as half a pint of wdne. In other sub- stances, besides those mentioned above, the fermentative process (unless prevented by that of digestion) appears to begin sooner in the stomach than out of the body. All oily substances, particularly butter, very soon become rancid after being taken into the stomach ; and this ran- cidity is the effect of the fitst process of the fermentation of oil. Mr. SiefFert has been able to restore rancid oils to their original sweetness, by adding to them their due quantity of fixed air* ; the loss of which I consider as the first process in this fermentation, similar to what hap- pens in the fermentation of animal and vegetable substances. Animal food does not so readily ferment in the stomach when com- bined with vegetables as when it is not; for the vegetables running more quickly into fermentation, preserve the meat from putrefaction. Put a piece of meat and some sugar, or bread, into water, and let them stand in a warm place; the bread and sugar will begin to ferment, the water will become sour, and the meat be preserved ; but the acid be- coming weaker, as the fermentation advances towards the putrefactive, the meat at last begins to acquire the same putrid disposition f. Yet this last part of the process cannot, I think, take place in the stomach, as a succession of acids will be formed, by which the meat will be pre- served sweet till it is digested: the formation of this acid in the sto- mach, most probably, not preventing the digestion of those substances which are incapable of being rendered acid. Bread allowed to remain in the stomach of a dog for eight hours is so much changed that it will not run into the vinous fermentation, but when taken out and kept in a warm place becomes putrid ; its putre- faction, however, is not so quick as a solution of meat that has been in the stomach for the same length of time. Similar effects are produced when milk and bread are the food administered; and perhaps the gas- • Physical and Chemical Essays, by Sir Tobern Bergman. t Of this Sir John Pringle was not aware in making his experiments on this subject