XXX PREFACE. Insectaj Cor uniloculare, inauntum; Vermes^ Cor uniloculare, inauritum.” But Linnaeus combines the cardiac character with others de- rived from the nature of the blood, the condition of the respira- tory organs, the structure of the mouth and generative organs, the nature of the integuments, &c., and thus makes an ap- proach to a natural system of arrangement. Hunter, in his distribution of animals into different classes according to the structure of the heart, uses the cardiac cha- racter singly, and produces a purely artificial arrangement; but his superior anatomical knowledge manifests itself in the accu- racy with which he defines the condition of the circulating or- gan characteristic of the different groups. first class includes the Mammalia and Aves of Linnaeus, and he proposes to call it Tetracoilia, the heart having four cavities, viz. two ventricles and two auricles. The second class^ Tricoilia) includes those animals wdiich have a heart with three cavities, viz. one ventricle and two au- ricles, and corresponds with the Amphibia of Linnaeus. The anatomical inaccuracy in the Linnaean character, although so early corrected by Hunter, long retained its ground in the sy- stematic works of continental naturalists, and continued to be erroneously applied to the Batrachian section of the Linnean Amphibia until a very recent period *. * The two auricles were after the time of Linnseus successively assigned in systematic works to the CJielonia and Sauria. Blumenbach long continued to assert that serpents, at least those of Germany, had but one auricle ; Cuvier al- lowed them two, but denied this higher structure of the heart to the Batrachia : “ IIs n’ont au coeur qu’une seule oreillette et un seul ventricule.” Regne Animal, ii. p. 101, edit. 1829. Meckel also ascribes this structure to the generality of the Batrachia : “ Die Batrachier haben die einfachste Herzform. Das Kerz besteht sehr allgemein nur aus einer Vorkammer und einer Kammer.” Vergl. Anat., band v. p. 215. The more complicated structure of the heart was, how- ever, truly described in the anourous Batrachiahy Dr. John Davy in 1825 ; his observations were confirmed by Prof. Weber in 1832; and in April, 1834, I communicated to the Zoological Society the result of a series of examinations of the hearts of the Batrachia, which proved that the whole order, including the perennibranchiate species, had distinct auricles for the pulmonic and systemic blood, since which time the tripartite structure of the heart has been univer- sally assigned to the Batrachia.