THE SMALLPOX DURING PREGNANCY. 79 marks of the smallpox, which she must have gone through in the womb; and the same physician pronounced that this child would be free from future infection. After four years her brother was inoculated; and Dr. Watson obtained permission of the parents to try the same experiment on the girl. The operation was performed on both children in the same manner, and the pus used in both cases was taken from the same pa- tient. The event, however, was different: for the boy had the regular eruption, and got well; but the girl’s arm did not inflame nor suppu- rate. On the tenth day from the insertion of the matter she turned pale suddenly, was languid for two days, and afterwards was very well. In the neighbourhood of the incision there appeared a pustule, like those pustules that Ave sometimes observe in persons who, having had the disease, attend patients ill of the smallpox.” In the Epistles of T. Bartholinus, Cent. II. p. 682, there is the fol- lowing history: “ A poor woman, aged thirty-eight years, pregnant, and now near the time of delivery, was seized with the symptoms of the smallpox, and had a very numerous eruption. In this state she was delivered of a child, as full of variolous pustules as herself. The child died soon after birth; the mother three days afterwards.” Van Swieten infers that the mother and the child were in this case infected at the same time ; therefore, the child not infected by the mother. Dr. Mead asserts that when a woman in the smallpox suffers an abor- tion the foetus is generally full of the contagion ; but that this does not happen always. This variety, he says, depends on the state of the mother’s pustules when the child is born; that is, whether they are or are not in a state of purulence. Whence he has observed it sometimes to happen that on the second day from the birth, or the third, or any day before the eighth, the disease caught from the mother shows itself in eruptions on the child. Dr. Mead here relates the history of a lady of quality, of which this is the substance. A lady, in the seventh month of her pregnancy, had the confluent smallpox, and on the eleventh day of the disease brought forth a son, having no signs of the disease on his body; and she died on the fourteenth day. The infant having lived four days, was seized with convulsions, and, the smallpox appearing, died. The doctor infers from hence that, the suppuration being in some measure completed on the eleventh day, the mother’s disease was communicated then to the foetus, and made its appearance on the child after eight days. If there be no abortion. Dr. Mead pronounces that the child will ever be free from the disease, unless the birth should happen before the ma- turation of the pustules. He brings a case to prove that the foetus in the womb may be infected by the contagion of which the mother does