CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 245 lows that there must be a variety in the angle of insertion of the several muscles, to accommodate them to the particular circumstance of each joint. And as those inclinations vary in the motions of the joint, so must the angle of insertion of the muscles, which will produce a difference in the effects, both in the power and quantity of contraction. To this great variety of these levers and joints we have the muscles adapted. We may observe, that the more perfect the animal is, the more curi- ously these levers and joints are formed, the joints commonly consisting of compound curves (which is the most remarkable in the more perfect animals), by which means their own motions admit of greater variety. The human subject is a striking instance of this, having the joints more compounded, and the motions less limited, than in any other ani- mal that I know, which circumstances require a greater variety of muscle, and the greater nicety in the adapting of each muscle to produce its peculiar motion. In the most perfect animals there are very few joints whose motion is simple, or which are confined on all occasions to move in one direc- tion ; for whatever may be their chief or ordinary motion, in many there is some other motion compounded with it; nor are there many joints which move upon one centre in all their motions, but they shift their centre as the curve varies*. These firm inflexible substances are kept together by soft, yielding, yet sufficiently strong parts, called ligaments, which are necessarily so constructed and placed, with respect to the motion of the joint, as to produce an effect analogous to that of a centre pin in a plain circular joint, and in all the various situations of the centres of motion. I may be allowed to observe, previous to entering upon the mecha- nical motions produced by the muscles in an animal body, that, without external resistance, there would be no such thing as progressive motion in an animal; for although a muscle has the power of contraction in itself, and is capable of moving all its different parts upon itself, yet it cannot move any other part without having some fixed point to act trom, which is the greatest point of resistance. There is in every animal, therefore, a fixed point from which the parts of the body take their principal motions. In the human body this fixed point seems to be in the joints of the thigh-bones; which point, being in the middle of the body, must be common to the extremities. We see, therefore, that the body either moves on the legs, or that the legs move on the body or trunk. Besides this, there are many fixed points, so that the body is to * A remarkable instance of this we have in the joint of the lower jaw in graminivo- rous animals.