220 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. In the walking bird the muscles of the leg are the reddest, as in the pheasant, partridge, and common fowl. In the flying bird the muscles of the wing are the reddest, as in the swallow and woodcock*. In the frog, snake, turtle, alligator, &c. there is but little action, and the muscles are nearly equally employed through the whole animal ex- cept the heart; so that there is not that difference in colour in the muscles of the same animal, or of any two of this order, although in many it may be observable. In fish we find a good deal of difference in the colour of muscles, and the heart, which is in constant action, is in them as red as any other animal‘s. The natural history of fish is very little known, but what va- riety there is we may attribute to the cause above mentioned^k The actions of the more inferior orders of animals we shall not at present enter into. From the above observations we may conclude that red blood, in those animals that have it, is of essential use to muscular contraction. That the quantity of red blood brought to a muscle is of service in its action is plain; for a muscle become paralytic from an injury to the nerve, or an anchylosis in the joint preventing its having contracted for many years, is found white, small, and somewhat ligamentous, retain- ing however a degree of transparency and gelatinous consistence, so that a muscle may become paralytic from too much rest alone. The wasting of a limb which is seen externally takes place principally in the muscles, more especiall)?' where they are paralytic from an an- chylosed joint; in that case the muscles alone can be supposed to be affected, they alone being concerned in the motion ; but where it arises from a defect in the nervous system, that defect may be in all the nerves of the limb, and therefore all the parts may suffer alike. * Epicures are sensible of this; therefore white veal, the leg of woodcocks, are deli- cious bits, and the feeders of domestic fowls indulge them. They rob the appetite, however, to please the eye, the flavour generally being in the muscles of action. “ [Most of the above facts, with their physiological inferences, were known to Grew, who alludes to them in the following digression while describing the digestive organs of the bird; “And as the strong and continual motion of all these muscles is taught, us from their structure, so likewise from their red colour, which, especially in the grind- ers” (the lateral muscles of the gizzard,) “ is intense. Hence in a fish the muscles which move the fins are usually red, although the rest of the flesh is very white; and so the leg of a domestic fowl. Whereas the wings also of a wild fowl are of the same colour. So likewise the flesh of a driven calf, or of a hare, though that of a coney be white. And that which comes nearer, the heart in all creatures having the like continual mo- tion is of a red colour.”—Anatomy of Stomachs and Guts, fol., p. 41 ; 16S1.J [See note p. 147.]