PREFACE. XXVlll t See Introduction to the Physiological Catalogue, vol. iii. p. vi. is manifested in its aggregation into spinal and cerebral masses, we have seen that Hunter alludes to it as distinguishing only the class of fishes from his first and second classes, or the Mol- luscous and Articulate divisions as they are now termed; and that he failed to perceive that all the other vertebrate classes were equally characterized by it. To Hunter, however, we must award the merit of having first obtained a perception of the distinct group formed by the higher organized vermes of Linnaeus, and their essential organical character. Hunter had also investigated the structure of zoophytes, in which no annu- lar brain can be detected ; he had conceived the idea of animals in which the nervous matter, or something analogous to it, a materia vitce diffusa, was dispersed throughout the system. And we find another learned contemporary of Hunter, in ascri- bing a diffused condition of the nervous matter to the Taeniae, bearing testimony that Hunter had entertained a similar opinion, and had applied that character of the nervous system to many of the lower tribes of animals The distribution of animals according to the nervous element of their organization, is, however, but one of several attempts at classification which Hunter made. The next scheme which we shall quote is one founded upon modifications of the gene- rative function f. Hunter’s^^r^/ class, or Fivipara, corresponds with the Zootoha of Aristotle, and the Mammalia of Linnaeus ; these animals develop their young in the uterus, he says, from a mixture of male and female influence, and bring forth a living offspring. The second class, or Ovovivipara, is a subdivision of the Ootoka or Ovipara of Aristotle, and “ hatch their young from an egg in the oviduct, as vipers, slow-worms, some lizards, newts, and the dog-fish.” The third class includes the Ovipara, or “ such animals as exclude their eggs, which are afterwards hatched out of the body but this character, as Hunter justly observes, “ takes in a wide field.” Fourthly, he says, ‘‘ We have animals which propagate by slips, and that in two different ways, one by a piece cut off, * See Carlisle, On the Structure and (Economy of Taeniae, Linnaean Trans- actions, vol. ii. p. 253, and vol. hi. p. 116, of the present edition,