160 ON THE HEAT OF VEGETABLES. frozen ? I can only say, that in all the experiments I ever made upon trees and shrubs, whether in the growing or active state, or in the pas- sive, that whole or part which was frozen was dead when thawed. The winter 1775-6 afforded a very favourable opportunity for making experiments relative to cold, which I carefully availed myself of. How- ever, previous to that winter, I had made many experiments upon ve- getables respecting their temperature, comparatively with that of the atmosphere, and when they were in their different states of activity: I therefore examined them in different seasons, with a view to see what powers vegetables have. I shall relate these experiments in the order in which they were made. They were begun in the spring, the actions of life upon which growth depends being then upon the increase; and they were continued till those actions were upon the decline, and also when all actions were at an end, but whilst the passive powers of life were still retained. The first were made on a walnut-tree, nine feet high in the stem, and seven feet in circumference in the middle. A hole was bored into it on the north side, five feet above the surface of the ground, eleven inches deep towards the centre of the tree, but obliquely upwards, to allow any sap which might ooze through the wounded surface to run out. I then fitted to this part a box, about eight inches wide and five deep, and fastened it to the tree: the bottom of the box opened like a door with a hinge. I stuffed the box with wool, excepting the middle, op- posite to the hole in the tree; for this part I had a plug of wool to stuff in, which, when the door was shut, inclosed the whole. The in- tention of this was to keep off, as much as possible, all immediate exter- nal influence either of heat or cold. The same thermometer with which I made my former experiments, seven inches and a half long, was sunk into a long feather of a peacock’s tail, with a slit upon one side to show the degrees; by this means the ball of the thermometer could be introduced into the bottom of the hole. Experiment I. March 29. I began ray experiments at six in the morning, the atmosphere at 57^-®, the thermometer in the tree at 55°; when it was withdrawn the quicksilver sunk to 53°, but soon rose to 57+°*. wounding a tree. But what appeared most remarkable to me was, that in a walnut- tree, on which I made many of my experiments, I observed that more sap issued out in the winter than in the sumnei'. In the summer, a hole being bored, scarcely any came out, but in the winter it flowed out abundantly. * The sinking of the quicksilver upon being withdrawn I imputed to the evaporating of the moisture of the fluid upon the ball.