DESCRIPTION OF THE UTERUS IN 56 The uterus was a little enlarged, and had the vessels unusually loaded with red blood. There was an uncommon quantity of blood in the vessels of the ovaria and Fallopian tubes, but principally in those of the ovarium, and morsus diaboli of the left side. The organs of generation being carefully removed, and both ovaria being slit open, there was found in the left a corpus luteum. It was evident, from this circumstance, that conception had taken place; which led to an inquiry respecting the last appearance of her menses, which appeared by the evidence of the family to have been little more than a month before her death. With the dread upon her mind of being with child, the usual period of menstruation had hardly elapsed without its appearing, which con- firmed her suspicions, before she, in a fit of despair, put an end to her life. From this evidence, the period of conception could not exceed a month, and probably was much within that time. As it was interesting to have the parts accurately examined, to see what information might be acquired respecting the foetus at so early a period, they were given to Mr. Hunter for that purpose, whose obser- vations upon them are contained in the following account. The arteries of the uterus were injected, and the smaller vessels were filled to so great a degree of minuteness that the whole surface became extremely red. The cervix uteri and os tincae were of their natural size; but the body, or that portion of the uterus next the fundus, was a little en- larged, and more prominent externally in the middle. The spermatic vessels were also enlarged.. On cutting into the substance of the uterus, it had more of a lami- nated structure than in the unimpregnated state: this appearance of lamellae appeared upon examination to be formed by veins somewhat enlarged, compressed and transversely divided. The uterus was un- usually soft in texture, and terminated on the internal surface in a pulpy substance. The blood-vessels of the uterus passed into and ramified upon this pulpy substance, which was continued across at the cervix uteri, so as to make the cavity of the uterus a circumscribed bag; and at this part the pulpy substance was so thin as to resemble the retina. This cavity had a smooth but irregular internal surface, and the pulpy substance upon which it was formed was evidently blood coagulated and varied in its thickness in different parts. Upon a longitudinal section of the uterus, the posterior part of the coagulum, which was the thick-