CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. 269 to the full grown imperfect, and as they advance in growth they become firmer and firmer in texture. It may likewise be observed that there is a very considerable differ- ence in the densities of the muscles in some of those animals that are of distinct sexes, the male (probably in most) having by much the densest muscles ; and the muscles of the same animal, whether perfect or imperfect, are not of equal densities, some being denser than others. This arises from two causes, —one natural, growing up wdth the ani- mal, the other acquired by frequent action. I'his difference in density of the muscular fibres in different animals, and ill the same animal at different ages, in different sexes of the same species, and even in the same sex, also the increased density arising from action, must answer some material purpose, and, from every obser- vation, it would appear to produce strength or power in the contraction of the muscular fibre. From every circumstance attending muscular contraction, it is obvious that those muscles employed in, or intended for the strongest actions, are the firmest in texture of any animal body, at least from many cir- cumstances it is natural to suppose so ; that they are the strongest would appear from the situation in which the firmest muscles are placed, for where the strongest actions are found in the living body, there we find the firmest muscles after death. There are two causes for this situation of the firm or strong muscles ; the first is an original or natural one, a principle in the animal oeconomy, depending upon the natural growth of the animal as much as the for- mation of a leg or any other part. The second is action. If we take a general view of the first or natural cause, we shall see from these general observations where we are to expect the strongest, and of course the hardest, muscles in any given animal whose mode of action is known. In animals which have progressive motion it will generally, if not always, be found that this action will be one of their greatest, because the parts intended for progressive motion bear a small proportion to the whole animal, which they are obliged to move ; whereas, every other part has its peculiar muscle, and the muscle is only obliged to move that one part, which is small in proportion to the others. Another action w'hich many animals are endowed with, and which requires very considerable strength, is fighting ; this is an action which always requires great powers in the muscles, because it is an action in a part which is to overcome the whole strength and weight of its an- tagonist, which is more than the natural weight of the same muscle, or