PREFACE. XVI cularly'endeavoured to define the merits of Hunter as a disco- verer in reference to the absorbent system. Hunter’s published writings on the Nervous System bear but a small proportion to the extent of his anatomical investigations on this subject, especially as they are manifested in the philoso- phical series of preparations in the Gallery of his collection, in which the nervous system is traced through its progressive stags of complication, from the simple filaments of the entozoon and echinoderm, to the aggregated masses which distinguish the organization of man. The fibrous structure of the brain, the discovery of which, though due to Goiter as early as 1573, has sometimes been attributed to Reil and Gall, is displayed by Hunter in preparations made to show the fact (Nos. 1335,1336), and is expressly mentioned in the description of the Anatomy of the Whale Tribe*. In treating of the comparative anatomy of the nervous system in his introductory observations to this division of his Collec- tion f, Hunter rises to the following generalizations. He di- vides the animals which have brains, or visible aggregations of the nervous substance, into six classes, each characterized by a peculiar modification of the brain. The ^first class' has a brain in the form of a ring, through which passes the (esophagus, and from which the nerves arise, like radii from a centre. It consists of a pulpy substance, some- what transparent, which is easily squeezed out when the brain is cut into. It is not inclosed in hard parts, and is not defended from pressure or injuries more than any other internal part. The examples of this type in his Museum are selected from the gastropodous class of Mollusca. The same condition of the nervous system we now know, from the researches of Cu- vier, to characterize the whole of a vast division of invertebrate animals, including, amongst the highest organized of that divi- sion, certain species,—the dibranchiateCephalopods,—in which the character, as expressed by Hunter, is affected by the deve- lopment of a cartilaginous cranium for the protection of the ce- rebral ring; but ulterior researches have not led to any modi- fication of Hunter’s description of the typical form of the brain in the Molluscous sub-kingdom. * p. 373. t Physiological Catalogue, vol. iii. p. 4.