400 OF THE ELECTRIC PROPERTY OF THE TORPEDO* gularity that the torpedo, when insulated, should be able to give to us, insulated likewise, forty or fifty successive shocks from nearly the same part, and these with little, if any, diminution in their force; indeed, they were all very minute. Each effort in the animal to give the shock is conveniently accompanied with a depression of his eyes, by which even his attempts to give it to non-conductors can be observed. The animal, with respect to the rest of his body, is in a great degree mo- tionless, but not wholly so. You will please to acquaint Dr. Bancroft of our having thus verified his suspicion concerning the torpedo*, and make any other communication of this matter you may judge proper. Here I shall be glad to excite, as far as I am able, both electricians and naturalists to push their inquiries concerning this extraordinary animal, whilst the summer affords them the opportunity.” Extracts of a Letter from Mr. Walsh to Dr. Franklin, dated Paris, August 27, 1772. “ - I spent a complete week in my experiments at the Isle of R^, and had there every convenience for prosecuting them to their ex- tent, except that I was restrained by the jealousy of the government from making them where the animal was caught. At my return to La Rochelle, I communicated to the members of the Academy of that place and to many of the principal inhabitants all that I had observed concerning the torpedo, in the intention of stirring up a spirit of in- quiry both as to its electricity and general oeconomy. “ The vigour of the fresh-taken torpedos at the Isle of Re was not able to force the torpedinal fluid across the minutest tract of air; not from one link of a small chain, suspended freely to another; not through an almost invisible separation, made by the edge of a pen- knife, in a slip of tinfoil pasted on sealing-wax. The spark, therefore (of course the attendant snapping noise), was denied to all our attempts to discover it, not only in daylight, but in complete darkness. I ob- served to you in my last the singularity of the torpedo being able, when insulated, to give to an insulated person a great number of successive shocks : in this situation I have taken no less than fifty from him in the space of a minute and a half. All our experiments confirmed that his electricity was condensed in the instant of its explosion by a sudden energy of the animal, and as there was no gradual accumulation nor retention of it, as in the case of charged glass, it is not at all surprisijjg that no signs of attraction nor repulsion were perceived in the pith * Bancroft’s Natural History of Guiana, p. 194.