70 ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE PLACENTA. in which the child may be situated, is capable of receiving the same pro- visionary stimulus for supplying it with nourishment as the uterus; and this, I believe, is peculiar to generation. This prompts me to make the following observations upon the different situations of the foetus in extra-uterine cases, which are extraordinary, happen seldom, and when they do occur are often attended with so many hindrances to critical in- vestigation, as hardly to allow of thorough or satisfactory information. Such cases are readily distinguished from natural ones by the uterus being found entire and empty; and they may be divided into three dif- ferent kinds, according to the situation of the foetus in the ovarium. Fallopian tube, or in the cavity of the abdomen. From a want of the appearances which usually attend the natural process, the investigation of extra-uterine cases is attended with consi- derable difficulty. For where uncommon actions have taken place, as well as in cases of disease, the natural texture of the parts is very much altered, and appears to be lost, not only by the parts themselves being enlarged, but from having a great deal of new matter superadded to them, by which they lose their natural distinctness, and become less fitted for examination than those which only have a relation to them, and which preserve their natural actions peculiar to that state. From these difficulties, and a want of accuracy in those who made the examination, it is not at present clear, with respect to many of the extra-uterine cases upon record, whether they were ovarian cases. Fal- lopian tube cases, or abdominal cases ; when, if they had been acquainted with the principle in which they differ, nothing could have been more easy than to distinguish them. It is not difficult, perhaps, at the very first view, to distinguish an abdominal case from either of the two first: for if the ovaria and Fallopian tube are entire, natural, and can be well distinguished to be as those parts are when the circumstances are na- tural, then we may be sure it is an abdominal case. Appearances, how- ever, may not in all cases be distinct; but the parts may adhere, or be otherwise rendered so obscure, that an abdominal case might be con- it bathes the capillaries of the fcetal circulation, and is returned by the oblique decidual adventitious sinuses and channels into the orifices of the uterine veins. Thus the pla- cental intercommunication between the foetus and mother, in the human subject and Quadrumana, is carried on by the contact of the fcetal capillaries with maternal extra- vasated blood; while in the Ruminants, the mare, and the sow*, it takes place by the apposition of capillaries to capillaries, and the two parts of the placenta, viz. fcetal and maternal, can be separated. In the Fei'se and Rodentia there appears to be an inter- mediate structure.] * [In the last two examples the placenta may be said to be diffused over nearly the whole surface of the chorion.]