PREFACE. . IX more discoveries of which he was unconscious than any other cultivator of comparative anatomy. Vicq d’Azyr, on the contrary, adorns his descriptions with many beautiful and philosophical views, but he did not carry his scalpel beyond the vertebrate series ; while Hunter explored every modification of animal structure, from man down to the polype. If Hunter surpassed his contemporaries in the value and amount of the materials which he collected in comparative ana- tomy, he rises far above them in the application of his facts. By a profound and unremitting meditation on the diversities of structure presented to his view, he derived more accurate notions than were current amongst his contemporaries of the parts essential to the performance of the different functions, and every idea or doubt thus suggested he tested by the most varied, ingenious, and accurate experiments. “ Many things,” he observes, “ arise out of investigation which were not at first conceived ; and even misfortunes in ex- periments have brought things to our knowledge that were not, and probably could not have been, previously conceived. On the other hand, I have often devised experiments by the fire- side or in my carriage, and have also conceived the result; but when I tried the experiment the result was different, or I found the experiment could not be attended with all the circumstances that were suggested^.” Few physiologists indeed, if any, have made more numerous, various, and conclusive experi- ments than Hunter. Yet he says, “ I think it may be set down as an axiom that experiments should not be often repeated which merely tend to establish a principle already known and admitted, but that the next step should be the application of that principle to useful purposes f.” By this series of labours of mind and hand, prosecuted unin- terruptedly from year to year. Hunter at length came to esta- blish a body of physiological doctrines, to the happy influence of which on the treatment of the various ‘‘ ills that flesh is heir to,” every cultivator of the healing science now bears grateful testimony. * Animal (Economy, p. 424 (the pages throughout refer to the present edition), t Ibid, p. 86.