OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE 368 forked: it has no attachment to the head by means of other bones, as in many quadrupeds. The thyroid cartilage in the piked whale is broad from side to side, but not from the upper to the lower part; it has two lateral processes, which are long, and pass down the outside of the cricoid, near to its lower end, and are joined to it much as in the human subject. These differ in shape in different animals of this tribe. The cricoid cartilage is broad and flat, making the posterior and la- teral part of the larynx, and is much deeper behind, and laterally, than before. It is extremely thick and strong, flattened on the posterior surface, and hollowed from the upper edge to the lower. It terminates by a thick edge on the posterior part above, but irregularly at the lower edge, in the cartilages of the larynx. The two arytenoid cartilages are extremely projecting, and united to each other till near their ends ; are articulated on the upper edge of the cricoid, but send down a process, which passes on the inside of the cri- coid, being attached to a bag in the piked whale, which is formed below the thyroid and before the cricoid cartilages ; they cross the cavity of the larynx obliquely, making the passage at the upper part a groove between them: the cavity at this place swells out laterally, but is very narrow between the anterior and posterior surfaces. The passage above between the arytenoid and thyroid cartilages is wide from side to side, and is continued down on the outside of the processes of the arytenoid cartilage, as well as between them, ending below the thyroid, which is folliculated on its inner surface on the fore part of the cricoid cartilage. The epiglottis makes a third part of the passage, and completes the glottis by forming it into a canal, in several of this tribe ; but in the piked whale it was not attached to the two arytenoid cartilages, but only in contact, or inclosing them at their base, so as to make them form a complete canal. I could not observe anything like a thyroid gland^. From the glottis and epiglottis being so connected as to make but one canal, and from the thyroid and cricoid cartilages being so flattened in some between the anterior and posterior surface, the passage through these parts is very small or contracted ; but the trachea swells out again into a very considerable size. Its larger branches are in propor- tion to the trunk, and enter the lungs at the upper end along with the blood-vessels. - * [This body certainly exists both in the porpoise and bottle-nose dolphin; it is bi- lobed, and placed transversely across the trachea. Below this body is the thymus, which extends into the chest and is much subdivided.]