OF THE WOLF, JACKAL, AND DOCJ. 328 many or Kamtschatka, from inhabiting warmer climates. But when we consider their general shape, the character of countenance, the quick manner, with the pricked and erect ears, we must suppose them varie- ties of the same species. The smelling at the tail has been mentioned as characteristic of the dog ; but I believe it is common to most animals, and only marks the male, for it is the most certain way the male has of knowing the female, and by another scent discovering whether the fe- male is disposed to receive the male, which is perhaps the final intention. The Esquimaux dog, and that found among the Indians as far south as the Cherokees, the shepherd’s dog in Germany, called Pomeranian, the shepherd’s dog in Portugal and Spain, have all a strong similarity to the wolf and jackal. Buffon, on the origin of dogs, seems to have had nearly the same idea: for he says the shepherd’s dog is the original stock from which the dif- ferent kinds of dog have sprung. As the wolf turns out to be a dog, it seems astonishing that there was no account of dogs being found in America. But this I consider as a defect in the first history of that country, as there are w'olves; and I must think, in spite of all that has been said to the contrary, that the Esquimaux and Indian dog is only a variety from a wolf of that country which had been tamed. Mr. Cameron, of Titchfield-street, who was many years among the Cherokees, and considerably to the westward of that country, observes that the dog found there much resembles the wolf, and that the natives consider it to be a species of tame wolf; but as we come more among the Europeans who have settled there, the dogs are more of a mixed breed. Why the Cherokees should have had only this kind of dog transported among them, while every other part of America has the varieties of Europe, is not easily solved. The voice of animals is commonly characteristic of the species; but I should suppose it to be only characteristic of the original species, and not always of the variety, and the supposition holds good in the dog species. Dogs may be said to have a natural voice, and a variation, arising either from a variety having taken place in the species, or a kind of imitation. It would appear that the voice of the wolf and the jackal is very similar, being the natural voice, and is principally conveyed through the nose, and exactly resemlding that noise in dogs which is a mark of longing or melancholy and also of fondness, but having no re- semblance to the bark of the dog, which they do not perform. However, in catching a jackal, when the animal found it could not escape, it yelped like the dog, which is a kind of barking, and which is probably the na- tural sound Barking is peculiar to certain varieties of the dog kind, and even of those that bark some do it less than others: the dogs in