202 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. The apparent difference in these actions would in many cases induce us at first to believe they were produced by different principles; as in many species of the same genus of plants some open their flowers in the day, others at night (as in the Mesemhryanthemum, or fig-marigold), similar to that which is the oeconomy of some animals, as in many spe- cies of the same genus of moths {PhalcBna, Linn.), some fly, seek their exciting to the nervous fibres with reference to their intermediate relation, as to the mus- cular fibre and the external stimulus to its contraction. The excitable fibres are those usually termed sensitive; the exciting fibres those usually termed motive. When the communication between the excitable nervous fibre and the brain is entire or uninter- rupted, the latter may take cognizance of the excitement and sensation be produced. When the exciting nervous fibres of muscular motion are in connection with the brain, the will, through the brain, may excite them to action, and this act of the brain may be felt. The essential character, therefore, of the actions of the brain, whether as a re- cipient or transmitter of impressions, is consciousness of the action. But this property of consciousness is not possessed by the spinal chord, probably not by the medulla ob- longata. Whenever, therefore, an impression received by an excitable nervous fibre is transmitted through the unconscious part of the central axis to the exciting fibre of muscular motion, the latter phenomenon is unaccompanied with consciousness or sen- sation. That the spinal chord, or any segment of it, possessed the power of transmit- ting an impression from an excitable to an exciting nervous fibre, has been known and admitted as a fundamental fact in physiology since the experiments of Whytt, Blane, and Mayo. To the latter physiologist we are more especially indebted for the most decisive experiments in proof, and the clearest enunciation, of this property of the cen- tral nervous axis. Recently the automatic animal motions resulting from this pro- perty have been grouped together more extensively than had before been done, and the morbid phenomena resulting from them ably traced out by Dr. M. Hall. But I cannot perceive the necessity of a distinct class of excitable nervous fibres for transmitting an impression to the motive fibre through the medium of the spinal chord and brain, and of another class of nervous fibres for transmitting an impression to the motive fibre through the medium of the spinal chord alone; still less can I perceive the necessity for one class of exciting or motive fibres for transmiting the stimulus to the muscular fibre from the brain and spinal chord, and of another and distinct class for transmitting a stimulus received from the spinal chord independently of the brain. It remains to be seen whether anatomy will establish the existence of these four classes of nervous fibres, which, so far as I understand Dr. Hall’s hypothesis of the reflex function, are called in to account for the voluntary and automatic muscular motions. There is not, however, a single phenomenon of automatic motion in parts supplied by spinal nerves which may not be accounted for on the demonstrated property of the central axis to transmit im- pressions from the excitable to the exciting nerves at any part where they are connected to it, independently of the rest; and I am at a loss to understand why impressions so re- ceived by the spinal chord should not also be transmitted to the brain (its continuity with that organ being uninterrupted,) without the necessity of supposing a class of ner- vous fibres for conveying, in this case, the impressions to the spinal chord, distinct from a second class which are supposed to transmit to the motive fibres those impressions which are not afterwards propagated to the brain. It would appear from the text that Hunter supposed that the animal motions which are unaccompanied by consciousness were altogether independent of the nerves; but they can truly be stated to be only in- dependent of the brain.]