392 OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE OF WHALES. •whale caught near Berkeley, which had been seen for some days with one young one following it, and they were both caught together. The glands for the secretion of milk are two, one on each side of the middle line of the belly at its lower part. The posterior ends, from which go out the nipples, are on each side of the opening of the vagina^ in small sulci. They are flat bodies lying between the external layer of fat and abdominal muscles, and are of considerable length, but only one-fourth of that in breadth. They are thin, that they may not vary the external shape of the animal, and have a principal duct, running in the middle through the whole length of the gland, and collecting the smaller lateral ducts, which are made up of those still smaller. Some of these lateral branches enter the common trunk in the direction of the milk’s passage, others in the contrary direction, especially those nearest to the termination of the trunk in the nipple. The trunk is large, and appears to serve as a reservoir for the milk and terminates externally in a projection, which is the nipple. The lateral portions of the sulcus which incloses the nipple are composed of parts looser in texture than the common adipose membrane, which is probably to admit of the elongation or projection of the nipple. On the outside of this there is another small fissure, which, I imagine, is likewise intend- ed to give greater facility to the movements of all these parts. The milk is probably very rich; for in that caught near Berkeley with its young one, the milk, which was tasted by Mr. Jenner and Mr. Ludlow, surgeon, atSodbury, was rich, like cow’s milk to which cream had been added. The mode in which these animals must suck would appear to be very inconvenient for respiration, as either the mother or young one will be prevented from breathing at the time, their nostrils being in opposite directions; therefore the nose of one must be under water, and the time of sucking can only be between each respiration. The act of sucking must likewise be different from that of land animals; as in them it is performed by the lungs drawing the air from the mouth backwards into themselves, which the fluid follows, by being forced into the mouth from the pressure of the external air on its surface; but in this tribe, the lungs having no connection with the mouth, sucking must be performed by some action of the mouth itself, and by its having the power of expansion^. * [From this reservoir the milk is injected into the mouth of the young by the action of powerful cutaneous muscles, arranged so as to compress the reservoir and dilated ducts of the mammary glands.] [Aided, as in the Marsupiata and Monotremata, by muscidar actions on Ihc pail of the paicnt tending to expel the milk.]