198 CROONIAN LECTURES ON MUSCULAR MOTION. meht to actions of a salutary or proper kind is simple, and depends on the original mode of action, or the original laws of the vital ceconomy, and the action only changes in some degree as the properties of the matter which stimulates changes. An irritation or excitement to morbid action is according to the susceptibility of the body or part which is to be ex- cited to action, and alters according to the power of the irritating matter, combined with the various susceptibilities of different animals and parts for irritation; for different animals and parts have different modes and powers of receiving the same power of irritation. In the more perfect animals we have the senses, or parts so con- structed as to be impressed by the various properties of matter, and, as it were, adapted to these properties alone. These are connected to- gether by the brain, or common sensorium, which is common to the whole of the sensitive powers : to and from the brain pass the nerves, or conductors of sensation and voluntary stimulus. But as animals be- come more and more imperfect, the senses, or parts constructed so as to be impressed by the properties of matter, become fewer, and the com- mon sensorium less perfect. There appear to be animals entirely de- prived of these parts or senses, and consequently having neither brain nor nerv^es^ These senses give us intelligence of the various properties of matter, from whence we derive our acquired actions, and have been naturally led to suppose that there were no other causes of action in an animal body. The eye gives us at once the shape or limits, and the various effects of the reflection of light from bodies at a distance; the first of which could not be sufficiently effected by the sense of touch, and the second we could not have had the least idea of, the common powers of touch not being sufficiently acute. The ear is adapted to receive the vibrations of air, giving us intelli- gence of bodies at a distance. The nose is adapted for smelling, giving us the odorous properties of the matter of which bodies at a distance are composed. The tongue is adapted to tasting, giving us a property in matter dif- ferent from any discovered by the sense of touch. The sense of touch gives us a vast variety of information respecting the form, construction, density, &c. of bodies. In giving us form and “ [Mr. Hunter nevertheless appears subsequently to have believed that the animals here alluded to, the Acrita of modern naturalists, had something siniilar to the mate- rials of the brain diffused through the body; and that every other principle or element- ary tissue, as the muscular fibre, was diffused through the whole, making every part alike contractile and stimulable, as in the fresh-water polype. Hydra viridis. See Vol. III. p. 116.]