CASSELL’S HOME HANDBOOKS. Practical Home Cookery, by A. G. Payne. A number of articles on home cookery, suited to housewives of moderate means. Simple and easy recipes are given for attractive dishes, and there is a special chapter on diet for invalids. The Elements of Modern Dressmaking, by J. E. Davis. Practical Papers by an experienced writer on dressmaking, illus- trated with numerous diagrams. Etiquette of Good Society. Edited and Revised by Lady Colin Campbell. A handy little volume which describes in detail the etiquette to be observed on all special occasions—Christenings, Weddings, Funerals, Dinners, Balls, &c., &c. Visiting, Letter- writing, and the Toilet are amongst the other subjects dealt with. The Home Lawyer, which explains the law for householders and business men in so clear a manner that it can be comprehended with ease and satisfaction. It furnishes valuable legal advice on a variety of subjects. The Home Physician, which is systematic. Its explanations are full and simple, and the prescriptions popular in style. The com- moner ailments of life can be warded off without external aid with the help of this useful volume. Practical Housekeeping. A collection of practical hints on the management of ordinary households, intended for the use of those who are just beginning the responsibilities of a home. It contains chapters on '* Small Economies," ‘‘ How Not to Waste," Remov- ing," "House-cleaning," "The Management of Servants," etc. etc. Vegetarian Cookery, by A. G. Payne, appeals to those who ought to adopt a vegetarian diet on account of their health, and to those who would follow it with great advantage also to their pockets. Cookery for Common Ailments is a practical dietetic guide to the invalid, in which the food problem is stated not merely in scientific terms, but in the form of actual dishes which will prove digestible and palatable. Our Sick, and How to Take Care of Them, written by Florence Stacpoole, an experienced and practical nurse, is full of useful hints. The volume tells in a plain and simple manner how the sick should be nursed, with the greatest comfort to themselves, and with a minimum of labour to those who attend them. The Making of the Home, by Mrs. Samuel A, Barnett, con- tains in its pages much useful information on the important subject of domestic economy. Every subject which influences the comfort and well-being of the home is dealt with. Advice to 'Women, a useful and instructive volume, by Florence Stacpoole, on the care of the health, before, during, and after new-born infant, the public. each. York fir* Melbourne. al Home Cookery, y o6 22101731587