■ ■THE UNIVFRSITV l iroaov LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: A Aii- * ■ ■* ' • ■ ■+ ■ ♦ ■ fc.* I" " • ■ ■ ' ^ «Homely HintsDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21527234Homely Hints ON Food and Cooking, Digestion and Indigestion WITH Over One Hundred and Forty Simple, Economical and Practical Recipes (ENGLISH, FRENCH AND AMERICAN), LEEDS: ALr Cooke, ‘‘Colour Printer to Her late Majestv thr Queen.l_y UNil'fcRiilT L!5?:?Y Lctu$Contents Paqe INTRODUCTION ... 7 CHAPTER L Poods and Feeding 9 CHAPTER II. Digestion and Indigestion ... 17 CHAPTER III. Cooking 33 A FEW ODD HINTS 46 A FEW NOTES ON GAS COOKING 48 RECIPES :— Soups ... ... ... ... ... 63 Fish ... ... ... ... 61 Meat and Poultry ... ... ... ... 68 Vegetables ... ... ... 82 Salads ... ... ... ... ... 91 Sauces ... .. ... ... 96 Sweets ... ... ... ... ... 102 Cakes ... . . ... . . 112 Savouries ... ... ... ... ... 116 INDEX 121Introduction HE preface, or introduction, to a book is the opportunity taken by the author to explain with what aim the book has been written. The object of the present little work is fairly described on the title page. It does not profess to be a cookery book, such a profession would be on the face of it absurd, for its size precludes any approach to completeness. Nor does it pretend to be a scientific treatise on digestion and the organs of digestion. It is rather a combination of both, put forward in the form of Homely Hints on food and how it should be prepared, and on digestion and how it should be preserved while the later pages are occupied with a collection of simple and practical recipes, some new, some old, all—we know—good. Our Aim. What we eat calls for more consideration than what we see or hear, yet it is not uncommon to hear talk about food and feeding described as “ greediness.” It need be nothing of the sort. . We do Eye, Ear not beiittie anyone who prefers looking at Mouth, beautiful scenery to uninteresting, or at fine pictures to poor, nor do we laugh at anyone who prefers hearing good music to listening to8 bad. In other words, we approve of the cultivation of the senses of hearing and of sight, and are apt to scorn or undervalue that of taste. Yet there is no harm, rather the contrary, in cultivating our sense of taste. We do not want, of course, to live to eat— that is mere gluttony; but as we must eat to live, we are amply justified in giving consideration to the composition of the dishes of which we are to partake. We should take care that our food is wholesome and that it is pleasant. It should be both, it must be the former. Evil is wrought by want of thought in our methods of cooking and in our choice of foods. Half the indigestion in the world, and how much of it there is !—comes from either poor food '"noN8 or imPr0Per cooking. The other hair, caused by Nature, might be cured if we took some little pains to study ourselves., and the organs of digestion and how they perform their functions. We do not expect this little book to bring about a revolution ; but we do hope that it may be of use to many, who avoid the ordinary cookery book and naturally fight shy of scientific treatises. If we achieve this aim we shall be quite content. Read the Coloured Pages CAREFULLY.Chapter I. Foods and Feeding. Y I^OOD is that which man eats in order to L/ sustain the strength of his body; it is the I V? fuel of the human engine. We can hardly give too much attention to the food we consume or to its preparation, nor should we ever forget that we eat not merely to satisfy our hunger, but at the same time to nourish our bodies and to keep them in proper working order. Many of the diseases of life would disappear if we gave proper consideration to the “ food-question,” and, beside avoiding illnesses actually caused by improper feeding, we should be better able to repel the attacks of disease in general, if we were careful to keep our bodies in good con- dition. We prepare a fruitful soil for disease germs by neglecting to be careful in our diet. Why We Eat. With food, as with many other matters, most of us realise that we often act unwisely, yet make no effort at amendment. But after all, to feed wisely and well is one of the most important of our daily duties, and, properly taken in hand, one of the easiest. It is impossible to exaggerate the importance of wholesome food properly prepared. In that word wholesome lies an imaginary sting, for what is wholesome is too often connected in our minds with what is unappetising. A good wholesome dinner means too frequently a heavy, stupid meal, but that is the housekeeper’s fault, not Nature’s.10 Almost all foods are wholesome when consumed in moderation, at the proper time and rightly prepared. We need not lead a life of self-denial in order to be healthy. There are two chief points to consider in the matter of eating—quantity and quality of (1) The Food, and of (2) The Cooking. Of quantity we need say little ; it is a matter of which every man must judge for himself, but we may pause to note a curious point, which is this. That the man who drinks too much is looked upon as a “ brute,” whereas he who eats too quantity. mucj1 js smiiingly called a “pig.” Yet over-indulgence in food is just as iniquitous as over- indulgence in drink, and is the cause of more worry, trouble and disease than we can calculate. In fact, if men did not overeat, doctors might well put up their shutters. It is very easy to overeat to a slight extent, but slight as that extent may be, it upsets the digestion and disorganizes the body. Under feeding is as hurtful as over feeding, and is a womanly rather than a manly failing ; but we should just remember this, that an engine won’t work without fuel, and our bodies will not do so without food ; we cannot expend energy without taking in supplies. It may be granted that for average persons in average health three meals a day are amply sufficient, though, of course, in the case of the housekeeping sex, five o’clock tea is allowable in addition- Whether food is nutritious or not depends upon NuTRI* whether it is digestible or otherwise, and ment. food ig djgestible which is easily reduced by the fluids provided in the human body for its reduction into nutriment. It is not necessary at once11 to enter into any account of the processes ot diges- tion, to which we refer briefly later on, but we may note this, that the processes of digestion are not noticed by us if they are carried on properly, it is only when our food is poor in quality, or badly prepared, or too great in quantity, that nature rebels and rings the warning bell of pain and discomfort. There are various simple points which we shall do well to remember when considering whether this, that or the other food is digestible. Meats that is tough or stringy is indigestible because our teeth cannot divide them up into the small particles on which only the digestive juices can act properly. Naturally it follows that fluid or soft food is the most easily digested. Fat mixed with the fibre of meat renders it less digestible, for which reason mutton is more easily digested than beef. The question of temperature too must be taken into account, the general rule being that very hot or very cold must be avoided. Curiously enough meat may be eaten hotter than farinaceous food, for the former has time to cool before it reaches the stomach, where it is digested by the gastric juice, whereas the saliva is the juice which digests farina- ceous food and is deprived of its power if the food is too hot. Beside toughness, over concentration of food should be avoided, or in other words, our food should be moist either by nature or rendered so by art. Thus dried, salted or over-cooked meats are notoriously difficult of digestion. Not only, too, can we over roast our meats, and over fry them, but we can over cook them to their detriment in any way, even, for example, in boiling- Though over-boiled12 meat falls easily apart, the fragments are nard, tough and stringy. A diet consisting of meat only is apt to induce constipation and other troubles, hence, for most people at any rate, a fair tables " amoun^ °f “green meat” should be taken. Though we hardly know the reason why, we by instinct almost have hit upon a system of dietary suited to our needs, and in almost all climes and amongst most people a mixed diet prevails. Our forefathers learnt how to live by experience, often enough giving absurd reasons for their practices; yet we, who count ourselves so much wiser, live more by nile and by reason, have arrived at very nearly the same practice. Of this, an amusing example is afforded by the prescription given by many modern doctors for sleeplessness, that is—eat a little and drink a little—do not try to sleep hungry, which is but a return to the “ night-cap,” the good-night bite and sup of our grandsires. A mixed diet, then, is on the whole the most wholesome and nutritious. Meat is necessary to repair the exhaustion caused in our flesh and muscles by labour. Any athlete training for a competition includes meat in large quantities in his diet; it is his aim to become as physically “fit” as possible, and he knows that without meat he cannot do so ; it may be commented upon also that training is a pretty sure cure for indigestion. Of course, we do not most of us require to go into training, as our bodies have only to withstand the ordinary wear and Wear and £ear Q£ we g^ui^ not forget that Tear* that is very considerable. Work, either of mind or body, is exhausting, and this exhaustion must be made up by supplies of nutritious food. On the whole the brain worker and the muscle workermay feed alike, though sedentary occupations have a tendency to cause costiveness, which must be met by a slightly lighter and more vegetable diet than may safely be indulged in by him who labours with his body. It is well not to sit down to a meal over fatigued, just as it is wise to rest from labour of mind or body for some little time after food. Many a man has but little time in the middle of the day to eat and still less time to digest in peace, and the lighter luncheon a business man indulges in the better will it be for himself and his work. Of the quantity that a man should eat he himself is the best judge, at any rate when he is in good health, any feeling of repletion should be carefully avoided, and there is no little wisdom in the saying that it is better to rise from table under-fed rather than over-fed. Many eat too much just as many have too little to eat, and both parties suffer, for nature’s laws cannot be infringed with impunity. It is a foolish habit, indulged in unthinkingly by only A Foolish *00 man3r> a^ow the pleasures of eating Hab1t to induce one to overload the stomach. Discomfort and disease must follow, and then a cure is generally sought in drugs, instead of in ceasing to eat too much, which is trying to cure the symptoms while leaving the cause of distress not only untouched but unmitigated. Regularity of meals is another matter which needs careful attention. Hours should be fixed for meals and hours should be kept to—strictly. And the time given to each meal should be ample. Mastication cannot be hurried, and food not properly masticated is most Of the many directions given to children, Mastica- tion. harmful.14 “ chew your food well ” is one of the wisest. Like many of the habits inculcated in children, it is one much honoured in the breach by their elders. Many a hard-worked man bolts his breakfast and rushes off to work; much better rise half an hour earlier and breakfast in peace, so avoiding much future pain and distress. As before noted, a pause from labour of any sort is most desirable after meals. It follows from this that the heaviest meal of the day should be taken when the day’s work is completed, that is for most persons in the evening. Breakfast also, provided that sufficient time can be given to it and that work does not commence immediately after its consumption, should be a “ hearty ” meal. The man who can eat, enjoy and digest a good breakfast may feel reasonably sure that there is not much amiss with himself or his habits of life. Food should so be constituted as to enable the consumer to repair waste of flesh and muscle and loss of heat and energy, and can therefore be generally divided into flesh makers and heat producers, which in more scientific language are nitrogenous and carbonaceous. FLESH MAKERS Albumen.—Found principally in eggs, meat and milk. GLUTEN.—Found principally in flour. Fibrin.—Found principally in fish, meat and cereals. Casein.—Found principally in cheese, curdled milk, beans and peas. Gelatine.—Found principally in gristle and bones. Legumen.—Found principally in pulses.15 HEAT PRODUCERS Sugar : Fat.—Found in foods too numerous to mention. STARCH.—Found principally in vegetable matter, bread, potatoes, rice, cornflour, arrowroot, barley, sago, &c. The question of expense is one which, alas, many of us have to consider, and meat is expensive. It is useful, therefore, to know that cheese, oatmeal, beans, Untils and peas all contain a large proportion of albumen. We will conclude this chapter with a few brief hints on some of the most common articles of diet. Water. Life cannot be sustained without water. Not only does water constitute two-thirds of the weight of our bodies, but it is essential for dissolving our food and for other purposes. Water is called hard when it contains a large amount of mineral matter, soft when it contains little or none. Pure water has no taste. Boiling softens most hard waters, as it causes the minerals held in solution— especially carbonate of lime—to be deposited. Milk has been described as “ the only food complete in itself,” as it contains every constituent necessary for nutriment. Condensed milk of the best brands may be absolutely relied upon. All germs in milk are killed by boiling. Milk by itself is most digestible. But care should be taken what other foods are eaten with it, so as to avoid sourness or acidity. Bread is the staff of life, or to put it more accurately, a very valuable food, and forms the largest16 portion of the food daily consumed. Bread can only be made satisfactorily from wheat or barley, other flours are wanting in gluten. White breads are the least nutritious, whole meal bread the most so. Potatoes are on the whole the most valuable vegetable, containing large proportions of water, starch, and nitrogenous matter. It cannot, however, safely be made the principal constituent of dietary, as it is in Ireland. Green Vegetables are not very nutritious, but essential to a wholesome dietary because of the acids they contain, and they aid digestion. ROOTS mostly contain much starchy matter, much in the form of sugar. Salt is a great aid to digestion and should be eaten with all meats. Vinegar is most valuable, especially with meat; for instance in pickles with cold meat. So, also, in salad dressing with uncooked vegetables. Mustard is a tonic. We have not endeavoured in this brief chapter on food to enter deeply into the question ; indeed, to deal adequately with it would require a volume, not a few pages. All we attempted to do was to give a few general hints on Foods and Feeding, which would be useful to the housekeeper in the ordinary duties of her household.Chapter II. Digestion and Indigestion. RUD IS proverb tells as that a man is a fool I Hi who at forty years of age cannot physic 1. 1 himself. As with many other proverbs, J so with this, it contains some sense and a good deal of nonsense. So let us amend it to suit our purpose, and say that a man is either very unwise or very unfortunate who cannot so regulate his diet as to avoid indi- gestion ; unwise if he indulges recklessly in food which he knows will disagree with him, unfortunate if nature has been niggard of her good graces and has endowed him with that too common and most un- desirable possession—weak digestion. Unwise or Unfortu- nate. We speak briefly elsewhere in this little book of food digestible and indigestible, and will now pro- ceed to describe simply and plainly the processes of digestion. But we may first say this, that almost all foods habitually eaten by man, are wholesome. Some, indeed, are unsuited to this or that person, but as a rule we may, if in good health, eat anything in18 Bad moderation if properly prepared. Some Names f°°dB have obtained a bad name as being indigestible, reminding us of the dog who got the bad name ; but it just amounts to this, some meats are more digestible than others, and the latter should be avoided or eaten with caution by those liable to suffer from indigestion. What do we mean when we say that we “ digest ” our food ? The word originally means to divide, to dissolve or to distribute. And this is exactly what it means now ; we divide our food by means of our teeth ; we dissolve it by aid of the various juices with which it comes in contact during its course Meaning through the organs of digestion ; and the _ ~ nutriment we derive from it is distributed throughout our body by the agency or the blood. The nutritious matters contained in our food become part and parcel of our bodies if our food is properly digested. Let us first take a rapid view of the organs of digestion. Our survey must necessarily be rapid, as we have no space to enter into minute details. All we desire to do is to convey some general idea Organs what digestion is and how it is carried Digestion. on, without which knowledge we can hardly hope to avoid indigestion, or having it, to remedy it and prevent its recurrence. Roughly speaking we have one organ of digestion, a long tube19 that runs through our body, which varies in size in different portions of its length, and the juices of which, aided by those contributed from other organs, carry on the processes of digestion. This tube begins at the mouth, continues through the gullet, the stomach, to the intestine (first the small intestine, 20 feet in length, second the large intestine, 6 feet in length). As it travels through this length}' tube our food is so chemically changed that we are able to absorb the nutrition it contains, so renewing our bodies and making good the daily waste. We may divide the tube, for our present purpose, into three portions, in each of which digestion takes place, the mouth, the stomach and the Mouth intestine. How seldom do we realise that digestion takes place in our mouths, did we do so we should be more careful to chew our food properly. Still more important is it to remember that the digestion which takes place in the mouth cannot be accomplished elsewhere; when once we have gulped a morsel of food improperly, insuffi- ciently masticated, it is too late to mend. What do we hope to achieve by digesting our food ? is a question we had better ask and answer before entering upon further description of the organs of digestion and their functions. Digestion is the converting of the nutritious portion What is what we eat jnt0 chyme, which is a D IQ E8TION. u semi-fluid, and which is transformed by the lacteala, small glands in the intestines, into chyle,20 which passes into the blood, being acted on in various ways in the liver and purified in the lungs. Now let us return to the opening organ, the mouth. Here three processes take place : we chew our food, we mix it with saliva, then we swallow it. Saliva consists of 98 per cent, of water, and various Saliva solids’ including ptyalin, which is one of the substances called ferments. Saliva acts in two ways : its first and simplest uses are to enable us to taste our food and then to swallow it. Dry food, as we all know, is difficult, and sometimes impossible to swallow. The next function of ptyalin is to convert the starch contained in our foods into dextrin and then into sugar of malt. It does not act on the nitrogenous and fatty portions of our food. Potatoes, bread, rice, &c., contain starch, and are naturally indigestible if improperly chewed up and mixed with saliva. Hence new bread is more likely to disagree than old, as being less easy to chew into small particles. Hence also, as well as for other reasons, toast and crust are easily digested. It need hardly be added that unless oui teeth are in sound condition proper mastication of much of our food is impossible. People with bad teeth are notoriously dyspeptic. Having chewed and salivated our food, we force it toward the back of the mouth, when muscles, which act voluntary, set to work, and the future of our food, so far as its progress is concerned, passes beyond our control. The “tube” conveying the food from the mouth to the stomach contracts and expands, contracting behind expanding before the matter swallowed, and so our food is forced down till it reaches the stomach.21 The Stomach. The stomach is the largest, or rather the most expanded, portion of the alimentary canal, as the tube, as we have called it, is more correctly designated. It is placed just below the breast bone, lying transversely across the body. When slightly distended it is about 12 inches long by 4 inches wide. Its weight is between 3 and 4 ounces. But of course these dimensions vary greatly in individuals and in different states of full- ness. The digestive action of the stomach is aroused by the presence of food, which the muscles of the organ toss or roll about, so that it is thoroughly impregnated with the gastric juice. The gastric juice, like saliva, chiefly consists of water, and contains also a ferment called pepsin, an acid called hydrochloric, as well as other less important substances. Pepsin only acts on the nitrogenous portion of our food, having no influence on starche3, fats This nitrogenous portion is converted into peptone, which can be easily absorbed into the blood, and is so absorbed in the stomach. The Gastric Juice. or sugars. We have now to see what becomes of the starches, fats and sugars. These are dealt with by the intestine. To the upper portion—the duodenum— of the small intestine, tubes convey the bile from the liver and the juice from the sweetbread — the pancreatic juice. It would take too long, and would involve us in controversial matters, were we to attempt a description of the various functions of the liver and the sweetbread. Amongst other duties of Last the liver is the filtering of the peptones, Staqe8 ^he P°isonoi;l8 portion of which is returned in the bile to the intestine and the whole- some portion despatched to the heart. The bile acts22 on the fats contained in our food, assisted by the pancreatic juice. This juice acts on all kinds of food, including of course starch and sugar, so that now we have disposed of all the nutritious elements in our food, they have all been put in a fit state for absorption into the blood, or at any rate in a con- dition ready to be acted on by other organs and then absorbed. The pancreatic juice contains at least four ferments, a milk curdling ferment, which very much resembles rennet, a powerful ferment called amylopsin, which converts starches into sugar, try sin, which, as does pepsin, acts upon nitrogenous foods, forming peptones, and steapsin, which works upon the fats. So—chyle is formed, which passes into the blood ; so—roughly described—digestion is performed and life sustained. The above is, we need hardly say, a mere sketch of the processes of digestion, but it is sufficient to help the reader to understand what we are about to say on this painful subject of indigestion, just as a qes rouSh drawing serves to illustrate a point, ™ when a finished picture is hardly neces- sary. How many people suffer, frequently or only upon occasions, from indigestion ? It would be easier to enumerate the few who do not know the pains and penalties of not being able properly to digest their food. No ailment is perhaps so common, few more distressing. In truth, dyspepsia makes a man a burden to himself, and not seldom a nuisance to his friends. We should not be exaggerating were we to say that indigestion has altered the course of the world’s history. King John prematurely closed a note- worthy and worthless career, because he succumbed23 to “ an indigestion ” brought on by John, greediness, having consumed too many Napoleon, jampreyS< Napoleon’s sun set on the Carlyle °f "Waterloo, which battle, it is said, he might have won had not his mind been clouded over with the weight of indigestion, the result of under-done mutton. But these two examples are no bogies to frighten us : we never overeat, even when tempted with the choicest morsels, and our muttons are never cooked other- wise than “ to a turn.” But we may look at another warning, did not Carlyle suffer tortures from dyspepsia ? Was he not, in consequence, a thorn in the side of the wife he loved, and may not his genius have burnt less brightly and his pen have written somewhat too bitterly because of his sufferings ? ^lost of us, alack, know too well how differently we feel and how differently we go about our daily work when our food has not agreed with us. Things go wrong when our digestion goes wrong. No man is “ fit,” fit for work or for pleasure, when dyspepsia holds him in its demoniac grasp ; then the morning comes to us with no sense of refreshment or vigour, and the night brings only promise—punctually ful- filled—of disturbed sleep and painful wakefulness. We have seen what digestion is, and cannot but realise that a process so delicate and so complete is easily put “ out of gear.” Indeed, “ out of sorts ” Qut is often the way we express our feelings QF when we are suffering from indigestion. Sorts. Something is out of joint with affairs, we know, something ‘ I took last night ’ has upset the internal economy, and we set to work to put things right again, too often adopting wrong measures, frequently making bad worse, and even24 when doing what is right, over doing it. An over- dose cure is as mischievous as overdone meat. The causes of indigestion are many, and some- times remote. We are not writing a medical work, and shall confine our attention here to what we may call simple indigestion, arising from having eaten what is difficult to digest or from not being able to digest what we have eaten, which are not one and the same thing. Of the first cause we shall speak more fully later on. Here we shall content ourselves with briefly discussing the failure of nature to provide us with sufficient powers of digestion or the failure of these powers through being overstrained or otherwise weakened. Let us return to our causes. Indigestion is frequently brought on by indulging too freely in food that taken in moderate quantities is perfectly whole- some, by eating at too short or too long intervals, by imperfect mastication, by our food being improperly cooked (see page 35), by abuse of spices and condi- ments, by drinking too much with our meals, by imbibing too much or over-drawn tea, by excessive use of tobacco, by eating when over tired, by violent exertion immediately after a repast, etc. So it will be seen at once that many people have only them- selves to thank if they are a prey to dyspepsia. An unhealthy state or a deficient quantity of the gastric juice, or of any of the other digestive auses. we have mentioned, leads to indiges- tion. Indigestion is in many cases hereditary. As a rule those whose work keeps them active and out of doors are less liable to suffer from it than those whose occupation is sedentary.25 The symptoms of indigestion are many, and many of the many are only too well Symptoms. kn0wn not a few 0f us> We may eontent ourselves with noting some of the more common :— Loss of Appetite; Unclean Tongue; Unpleasant Breath ; Unpleasant Taste in the Mouth, particularly in the morning ; Pain or Discomfort, and a sense of fulness after meals ; Sickness ; Flatulence ; Heartburn ; Flushed Face (more red noses come from dyspepsia than from drink); Headache (often acute); Lassitude; Sleeplessness ; Bad Dreams and Nightmare ; Biliousness; Constipation, &c., &c. Let us look at some of these symptoms more closely. If our trouble is transitory, arising from some piece of food we have consumed being of an indigestible nature, the indigestion is generally more acutely painful than when the disease is chronic. In such a case, sickness is a frequent result, and is nature’s cure, almost always being followed by immediate relief. Sick headaches, too, are a usual result, and one of the most unpleasant. Occasional an(j a mii(j dose Qf salts usually versus banishes them. Chronic dyspepsia, un- fortunately, is an enemy less easy to26 combat. In such cases any kind of food may dis- * agree with the sufferer, until he really feels inclined to think that starvation would be preferable to satis- fied hunger followed by discomfort, pain, and a host of other troubles. Yet, starvation, going too long between meals, only adds to the trouble. Chronic dyspepsia simply means this—that the assimilative processes we have described are not being properly carried out, which means not only indigestion, but attendant ills, for indigestion means that the body is not being properly nourished, which cannot fail to have an extremely ill effect on the health generallj'. What can we do to help ourselves ? Three things, Avoid those foods most difficult of digestion, or at any rate eat of them sparingly ; Make good the failure of Nature to supply us with sufficient means of digestion ; Make sure that our food is properly cooked. We have already touched upon the digestibility and the reverse of some foods, but may say a little more on the subject here, while in the chapter on cooking we will deal with the third “ way of salvation.” We may urge first this general consideration, that no absolute AY AT' rule can be laid down which all dyspeptics may follow ; everyone must learn from experience— often painful—what “I” may eat. General rules are only a general guide, particular rules must be worked out every man for himself, and dyspepsia take the hindmost. Warnings. Highly spiced dishes should be avoided. Soups and rich gravies should be avoided.27 Salt meats, salted or dried fish, should be shunned. Uncooked vegetables and fruits should be avoided. Of meats mutton is the most easily digested. Very hot dishes or very cold dishes, or drinks, should be shunned. Aerated waters should be avoided. Tea at a meat meal should not be taken. Only the very lightest food should be taken within three hours of retiring to rest. New Bread should be avoided. Pastry should be avoided. Sweetmeats should be avoided. Cheese should be avoided. Lobsters and Crabs should be avoided. Nuts should be shunned. Poultry is easily digested (but must not be overcooked—“ boiled to a rag.”) Perhaps you will say, as did the wit when offered anti-gout claret, “ I prefer the disease to the cure.” But the above table need not alarm you ; experiment will show you that many of the foods there banned may suit you very well, and rTqht that others not mentioned, because Way generally innocuous, may be “ poison ” to you. If wisdom is in you, you will soon find out by a little watchfulness what food you can and what food you can not digest, and then self restraint will keep you in the right way. Unless a man’s digestive organs be in a very parlous condition there are plenty of the pleasures of the table in which he may indulge with impunity. But, alas for poor human nature, it is so often exactly what we must28 not eat that we desire most strongly to indulge in, and—sometimes do so, and always pay for it. Self help is no recommendation, when we ought not to have a help at all. But cannot any light be thrown on the darker side of the question ; is there no help for him to whom nature has been sparing of her digestive graces ? Yes, when nature will not help us we must help nature. Avoid the foods that most disagree Don't you; do not unduly strain what and Do digestive capacity you have; live care- fully (and carefully does not exclude well) ; and avoid promiscuous drug taking. If your digestive organs are delicate, do not think you will render them less so by assaulting them with ferocious pills or drastic remedies of any sort. These only aggravate the evil, though for the moment they may seem to remedy it. You might as well try to recover a hot-house plant by showering ice over it. Pay strict attention to the bowels, how- ever, using the very mildest purgatives, and these as seldom as possible. An occasional dose of laxative mineral water in the morning is useful. Beneficial too in many cases is a glass of plain hot water, drunk immediately after rising from bed. Drugs in general may be said to alleviate the symptoms, while but few of them touch the cause. The truly useful course to pursue is to endeavour to remedy the deficiency—the lack of digestive power. Many ways of doing this have been tried, with more or less success, but in very many cases of dyspepsia, pepsin has been found not only to alleviate but to cure. There are many preparations of this to be obtained, but the best is29 lactopeptine, which has been searchingly and success- fully tried by physicians for many years past. This mixture also contains pancreatine, ptyalin, lactic acid, and hydrochloric acid, which, as will be gathered from our description of the digestive process, are all useful. So it comes to just this ; some can eat what they like, without any result they dislike ; some have to be careful in some things ; some have to be careful in many. But, take it for all in all, if a man lives a healthy life and treats himself fairly, he will “ have a good time,” and there is hope and help for even those of us who have but a “ poor ” digestion. Good digestion will wait on appetite, if we do not over indulge the latter and abuse the former. TREATMENT OF INDIGESTION. The treatment of indigestion or dyspepsia has undergone almost a revolution during the past twenty years. Formerly, the common solution of this disease was endeavoured to be obtained from the free use of cathartics, under the mistaken idea that by giving the system a thorough cleansing the root of the evil was certainly to be reached. A great step towards a more rational course of treatment of indigestion and its attendant evils, was obtained in the introduction of Lactopeptine. The particular condition in which this preparation is applicable is debility of the stomach, when the gastric juice is not produced in sufficient quantity, or of sufficient power, to enable the requisite amount of food to be digested. In such cases, the debility of the stomach is increased of course by the want of proper nutrition, and the stomach has little chance30 of recovering its healthy lone. Artificial digestion supplies the deficient nutriment, and the stomach, being now duly nourished, assumes its normal con- dition. In short, what the stomach really requires in such cases is rest, which of course it cannot obtain absolutely, from the nature of the functions imposed upon it. But the administration of Lacto- PEPTINE carries out the process of digestion within the stomach, reduces the labours of the stomach, and thereby materially helps forward the recuperative process. The extended use and adoption of LaCTOPEP- TINE by the Medical Profession shows that its therapeutic value has been thoroughly established in cases of dyspepsia and indigestion, liver and kidney disease, loss of appetite, impoverished blood, general debility, intestinal and wasting diseases, constipation, headache, nausea, vomiting in pregnancy, cholera infantum, chronic diarrhoea, neuralgia arising from indigestion, flatulency, heartburn, and in every description of stomach ailment or disease, where all other known remedies have failed and proved ineffectual. The purpose of the LACTOPEPTINE is to bring about the digestion of food, in a manner perfectly identical with that obtained under the influence of the natural gastric juice, and enable the process of digestion to be completed without straining the power of the stomach. It is also intended to restore the deranged and torpid liver to its normal condition and healthful action ; to remove and prevent con- stipation by securing a natural and regular operation of the bowels, and to relieve those unpleasant symptoms which attend a diseased or morbid condi- tion of the liver, stomach, and bowels.81 HOW TO TAKE LACTOPEPTINE. The dose measure which is fitted over the cork, and is sent out with every bottle, holds an ordinary dose (10 grains); this may be taken in a tablespoon- ful of wine, milk, or water, or perfectly dry upon the tongue, just as a person may prefer. Its action will be the same in either case. The dose should be taken directly after each meal. LACTOPEPTINE is not directly purgative or relaxing in its effect. Of the many complaints in the treatment of which LACTOPEPTINE has shown most prompt and decided success none have been more quickly relieved than the various forms of headache, includ- ing nervous and sick headache ; and it is safe to say, that in nine cases out of ten, this distressing complaint is due to inactive or sluggish liver, with constipated bowels. A few doses of LACTOPEPTINE soon restore these organs to their proper functions, and the headache ceases. In the same manner they regulate the bowels, prevent constipation and piles, relieve all forms of biliousness, such as dizziness, nausea, drowsiness, bad taste in the mouth, coated tongue, loss of appetite, pain in the side, sallow skin, &c. A dose taken immediately after eating causes the process of digestion to begin at once, prevents dyspepsia and indigestion, with sour rising of food from the stomach, and obviates the distress caused by too hearty eating. THE OPERATION OF LACTOPEPTINE. LACTOPEPTINE is so much additional gastric juice, and reduces the labour required from the stomach ; gives it, when weak, the necessary period82 for repose and recuperation ; and enables it to carry out its natural operations without impairing any function. There is a vast difference between a drastic purgative, which acts almost entirely upon the bowels, the effect of which is always followed by constipation, and the mild but efficacious remedy which we have indicated. Particular attention is directed to the formula of LaCTOPEPTINE, which appears on the label of every bottle, and every reader of this book is cordially invited to write for a full descriptive pamphlet of LaCTOPEPTINE. This pamphlet gives reports of cases treated by medical men, and accurately describes the diseases and symptoms for which this remedy LACTOPEPTINE has been so successfully administered. Applications should be addressed to 46, Holborn Viaduct, London, E.C.Chapter III. Cooking. The First Cook. AN has rightly been defined as a ‘ cook- ing ’ animal, for, as far as we know, every other animal is content to con- sume his food raw. No historian has yet been able to name the first cook, but that cookery is one of the most ancient of arts many records prove to us. Some day, perhaps, someone will write us a really interesting History of Cooks and Cookery, but never, we fancy, shall it be known who first broiled a chop or baked a loaf. Of only one famous dish is the origin decisively known ; has not Charles Lamb in his delectable essay, “A Dissertation upon Roast Pig,” told how that tooth- some dish was discovered ? And does he not rhapsodise on crackling ? “ There is no flavour comparable, I will contend, to that of the crisp, tawny, well-watched, not over-roasted crackling, as it is well called—the very teeth are invited to their share of the pleasure at this banquet in overcoming the coy, brittle resistance — with the adhesive oleaginous—0 call it not fat—but an indefinable sweetness growing up to it—the tender blossoming of fat—fat cropped in the bud—taken in the shoot— in the first innocence—the cream and quintessence of the child-pig’s yet fine food—the lean, no lean, but a kind of animal manna—or, rather, fat and lean (if it must be so) so blended and running into each34 other, that both together make but one ambrosian result, or common substance.” In a word roast pig, like every other dish, to be worth eating, must be done to a T. As well as being a cooking animal man is a fallible animal, so that his cooking is not, can never be, always perfect. But it behoves him in this as in other matters, to strive after perfection, and never to be content with a mediocre perfoi’mance. Also, man in common with all the animal world, is endowed with instinct, and doubtless it was instinct that led him to practise cookery, as likely to be beneficial not only to himself, but to his offspring. Instinct has, also, led him to various combinations of foods in one dish whereby the deficiency in nutriment or the indigestibility of one ingredient is neutralised by the properties of another. Why do we cook our foods ? For two chief reasons, to render them more pleasant to the palate and to make them easier of digestion than they would be eaten raw. Most raw foods are tasteless compared Why with cooked, and not only so, but the Cook p varie*y °f flavours we now can have would be vastly diminished if we ate all our dishes in an uncooked condition. That cooked food is more digestible than uncooked we learn from experience and are taught by science. What is the difference between raw and cooked food ? ) What action does heat have upon our victuals ? Of the various chemical matters which our food contains, some are, some are not, cookable. That is to say the application of heat produces a chemical change in some only of the constituents of our food. We may put it this way ; we can make hot but35 cannot cook oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, carbon, &c.; we can cook starch, albumen, gelatin, cellulose, &c. Starch in an uncooked form is most indigestible, properly and well cooked it is easily Heating (Pjgggtible. Well baked bread, or rusks, Cooking 01 biscuits, are easy digest, because the starch contained in the flour is rendered digestible by being thoroughly cooked. Bread not well baked is indigestible, not only because the starch is not sufficiently cooked, but, as we have pointed out already, because it is difficult to mapticate—to chew—properly. The same reasoning applies to all cakes, scones, &c. Again ; cellulose is woody fibre, which is softened or loosened by the application of heat, thus being made easier to chew and more easily dissolved by the digestive juices. Instinct has led us so to combine our foods and so to cook them, at any rate in many instances, so that the whole may contain what the parts taken alone do not possess, so that the whole is digestible and nourishing, while the parts alone would not be so. Eggs and bacon, beans and bacon, salt fish and egg sauce are a few examples of this fact. And this proves that the chemist has a right to speak to the cook. He cannot tell us how to make our dishes tasty, that we must teach ourselves, but he can and does teach us how to make them wholesome. He warns us off forbidden fruit. Cooking, then, is the application of heat to our food to make it more palatable and more digestible. The first rule a cook must learn is not to overdo any- thing. Overcooked meat is indigestible and does not nourish. Often meat that we think nicely boiled has been deprived of much of its nourishing pro- perties, and roasted meat that is brown throughout36 is unprofitable and wasteful. Roughly speaking, our methods of applying heat to our foods may be Wet and descril:)ed as “ wet ” and “ dry.” Roasting. Dry for example, is the application of dry heat: boiling, of wet; while baking comes between the two, as the oven during that process soon becomes filled with moist heat. In boiling, roasting and baking, the first application of heat should be intense in order to preserve the juices in the meat, afterwards the heat may be lowered till the meat is cooked throughout. Thus a perfectly cooked chop, or steak, or joint should be brown outside : when cut for a fraction of an inch, red or reddy brown to the centre. Cooked meat should not cut dry but juicy. So much for theory. Let us turn to practice, and briefly describe the various methods of cooking meat generally used in English kitchens, giving at the same time a few practical hints, generally known, perhaps, but also generally forgotten. ROASTING. Roasting claims pride of place, not only as being, probably, the most ancient mode of cooking, but as the most excellent. But, alas, pride has had a fall, and the reign of the close range has driven roasting almost out of 'private practice. However, if you have a fire at which you can roast, never bake your meat. The latter method is neither so wholesome, for the meat is apt to be wooden and juiceless, nor so toothsome. In roasting a clean fire is the first essential, and a87 handful of salt thrown upon it greatly assists matters. If you have wood, burn it in preference to coal. At the commencement the joint should be as near the fire as you can put it without burning it, so that the pores of the meat may be sealed up and the juices retained. Basting is necessary to prevent the meat becoming dry. Frozen meat takes longer to cook than fresh. The watched pot never boils ; the unwatched joint generally spoils. Boiling. As in roasting, so in boiling during the first quarter of an hour great heat should be applied ; fresh meat should be put into water boiling furiously. Afterwards it should boil quietly. Salt meat should be put into warm water and then gently boiled till cooked. All scum should be removed from the water while meat is boiling, otherwise it discolours the meat. Fierce heat seals up the meat by hardening the albumen, thus forming, as it were, an outer casing which keeps in the juices. If this is not achieved, especially in boiling and frying, the meat becomes tough and tasteless—unpleasant and unwholesome. That this is reasonable will at once become obvious when you remember that you adopt precisely the opposite process when you wish to use pot liquor for stock, or soup, or broth. Also, for similar reasons, fresh meat should never be soaked, such a proceeding merely resulting in loss of nutritive matter. Salted and dried meat, however, should be treated in this way. UMT LI&PmPY LEEDS88 Soft water should be used for boiling meats. Hard water can be rendered sufficiently soft by boil- ing it for some considerable time before using it for cooking purposes. When water has been brought to the boil, it is kept so by application of very moderate heat—a roaring fire is sheer waste of coal. Salted meat is never as nourishing as fresh meat —and therefore in the end no cheaper. Baking. In modern kitchens baking rules the roast, the more’s the pity. The chief difference between baking and roasting is that the fumes given off by the meat are not carried off in the former case, remaining in the oven and affecting the flavour of the meat. The best ventilated ovens do not altogether obviate this. The outside of baked meats are never so crisp and tasty as that of roasted meat. Pastry, of course, requiring to be cooked at a more moderate tempera- ture than that used in roasting, is properly always a baked “ meat.” The same remarks, as made above, with regard to boiling and roasting, apply to baking of meat— the heat at first must be intense, afterward more gentle. Cleanliness is essential—within the oven itself and in all utensils used in baking, the baking tin, &c. Basting the meat is most advantageous. Crispness can be given to the outside of the meat39 by raising the heat of the oven before taking out the joint. The meat should always rest on a trivet to prevent it growing sodden in the grease. Frying. This method of cooking may be divided into two—pot frying and pan frying, or to put it another way, wet and dry frying. The latter is more usual in Great Britain, the former on the Continent. On the whole it may be said that POT Frying is best adapted for :— Rissoles, croquettes, fish cutlets, whitebait, smelts, fritters, &c. Pan Frying for such dishes as require slower and longer cooking, as :— Cutlets, bacon, sausages, eggs, steaks, fillets, liver, &c. The secret of success in both methods depends upon having the fat, dripping, butter or oil used for frying, at the right temperature. Water, when boil- ing, bubbles up ; just the contrary is the case with fats when they are ready for frying. When the fat, after bubbling (and squealing) becomes still, then is the time to begin your fry. When fat is believed to be at the right temperature, this can be proved by (1) the appearance of a slight blue vapour above it, or (2) by dipping a finger of bread into it; in about fifteen seconds this will begin to turn brown if the fat is ready.40 To Clarify Fat:—The fat should be cut up into quite small pieces, all skin and sinew being extracted. Barely cover it with cold water, and boil, removing all scum. When most of the water has boiled away, simmer and stir gently to prevent burn- ing. When the hard portions turn brown and sink to the bottom pour off the fat and strain through a sieve. Lard and suet can be treated much in the same way. Butter should be melted over a moderate fire till transparent. Fat for frying should not be used for any other purpose, but can be used again and again for frying. Fat used for frying fish should be kept apart from that used for meat. Pot frying, or frying in deep fat, is simply dipping the article to be fried into the boiling fat till done ; a basket is most useful for such articles as are egged and bread crumbed. When properly done they should all turn out a nice golden brown. Articles surrounded with batter can be popped straight into the fat, as they will rise to the surface, when they should be turned over—just as a roast is turned—so that both sides may be cooked alike. Dry frying is apt in this country to be so dry that it is not frying at all, but—well grizzling or frizzling. The frying pan should be deep and the fat should as near as possible cover the articles being cooked. But in all cases bear in mind—if the fat is not hot enough—or too hot—your fry will be a failure.41 STEAMING. Steaming can be done in two ways:—in a steamer, in which the steam passing through the perforated bottom of the upper part cooks the food coming into contact with it; in a double vessel—a pot or basin within a pot, the inner one closed or covered up, so the steam does not touch the food. There are few “boiled” puddings that would not be better cooked if steamed. Vegetables are preferable steamed to boiled, particularly potatoes, as cooked in this way not so much of their mineral salts are lost. Steaming is slower than boiling. Be careful that the water keeps on the boil, otherwise the food—particularly puddings—becomes sodden or heavy. If more water must be added— owing to the first supply having boiled nearly away —it must be added boiling hot. Grilling. In grilling, or broiling as it is sometimes called, a clear fire is the great essential. A coke fire is excellent for the purpose. The gridiron must be kept scrupulously clean, and should be greased before use. The “ grill ” can be wrapped in paper to obviate the danger of burning, but it is not necessary and lengthens the process. The gridiron should be as close as possible to the fire when the grilling begins, so that the meat may retain its juices. French cooks attain this end by coating the meat with oil.42 The meat should only be turned once, and never with a fork, which pierces holes through which the juices escape. With split-open fish, the inside should be put toward the fire first, to retain the juice. Stewing. Stewing may be called slow boiling, the water being kept “simmering.” The good of the meat goes into the gravy, which always accompanies it to table. A stew can always be reheated, which is not desirable with meat cooked other ways. The meat is put into hot water, and should be stewed till tender— not to a rag. The toughest meat is tender cooked this way, and vinegar applied to it before cooking assists the process. The golden rule for stewing is— go slow. Braising. Also—go slow. The braising pan has a hollow lid, which is filled with live coals, so that literally the meat is between two fires. Stock should be used in preference to water. These are the various methods of cooking adopted in civilized society. We have only outlined them, prefering to give a few useful hints, which, added to the knowledge gained by experience, should help to make cooking profitable and pleasurable.43 There is an unkind saying to the effect that “ God gave man good meat, and the devil sent a An bad cook to spoil it.” There are, we believe, Saying* ^ad cooks, and we have occasionally eaten meats improperly prepared. But no one need be a bad cook if pains and care be taken. If a thing is worth cooking it is worth cooking well. Simple dishes have has much claim to careful pre- paration and cooking as elaborate, and, indeed, a plain dinner nicely cooked and served is far nearer per- fection than a pretentious feast ill served and badly cooked. Method should be the careful cook’s watchword. A really good cook is always methodical, leaving Method n°thing to chance. Chance generally means mischance. When setting to work to prepare a dish, see that you have all the ingredients and every utensil ready to hand. Keep an eye on your fire. Do not get in a muddle. Think what you are doing and at what you are aiming. Be exact in your quantities unless you vary with a reason. Yariety in food and in its preparation is a diffi- culty that sometimes reduces the housewife to despair. There are only a few meats and not too many vegetables—how obtain variety P Yariety not only charms the palate, sometimes ar'ety eyen inducing the languid invalid to eat _ 18 to whom the mere thought of food has harming. heen distasteful, but is also good for the interior economy, so long as the variety is not too great. The story is told of a husband answering his wife’s despairing cry of “ What shall I give you for breakfast, to-morrow ? *’ with “ Oh, I don’t mind ; why not eggs and bacon ? ” “ But, my dear, you have had that so often lately.” “ Oh, have I ? Well,44 then, let’s have bacon and eggs for a change.” That man was more philosophic than he knew. We cannot vary our foods, but we can our dishes. We can vary them by changing the combination of their ingredients, and in a lesser way in the manner in which we serve them. We are rather too apt to be unimaginative in our feeding : we get into a groove and keep there. _ In the hymn book there are a certain proportion of hymns which we sing over and over again, to the neglect of many others as beauti- ful. So it is with the cookery book. If we use it at all, we use it merely to look up dishes we already know ; why not use it to learn how to prepare others with which we are unacquainted ? “ Eggs is eggs and potatoes is potatoes.” Eggs are always poached, fried or boiled, with exceptions of buttering or scrambling; potatoes are always baked or boiled. Why so ? There are many ex- Monotony cellent ways of serving eggs given in every cookery book worthy of its name. Why not try some of them ? Most of them are simple enough, and make an excellent change for breakfast. Potatoes can be cooked in almost countless ways, and are well worthy of all the attention we can give them. Then cold meat—or cold fish—need not call up visions of a distasteful looking joint, with icicles of cold, unappetising fat. Chit it up ! Cut it up, and surround it with lettuce, or cover it with sliced beetroot, or mix it up with a salad in a bowl, and no one will grumble and most be pleased. Cold fish can be used up in many ways, scalloped, or with white sauce in an embankment of mashed potatoes, browned in the oven. All these, you will say, are but commonplaces; well, so they may be, but like many simple things they are overlooked. We do not45 think enough -when planning out our meals. Take instances. You have not caught your hare, so cannot jug it. Then why not jug a rabbit, or some beef- steak ? Both are admirable dishes. Lettuce is out of season, so we cannot have a salad with our cold beef, and must put up with pickles. Why so ? Were not some brussels sprouts left over from dinner ? Put them in a glass dish, and turn them over in a salad dressing of one part of vinegar to two parts of oil, a spoonful of mustard, a pinch of pepper and of salt, and you have a salad fit for an epicure. So also you can treat cold cauliflower, beetroot and celery, turnips and carrots, peas and carrot, broad beans {young), and so forth. Always make your table pretty. Costly flowers are not needed, the homeliest do just as well. So does a fern, or even a bunch of foliage nicely arranged in a vase. Take the bottles out of your The cruet and group them at the corners of Table y°m> table with the salts and the mustard pot. Always have your knives and silver bright and spotless. A napkin under the dish covers a multitude of sins. Serve the gravy in a sauce tureen hot. In short, provide a proper and seemly setting for your good fare. Looks go for a great deal in this world—as all women know.A Few Odd Hints. Coffee. Salad, &c. Milk. Stewing Fruit. Some Tests of Fresh- ness: Eggs : Fish. Foultry. Two kinds of coffee mixed are better than one alone. Roast or grind them yourself, if possible. Always break up lettuce with your fingers; never put a knife to it, or to cucumber, or a steel knife to any fruit. Never mix old milk with new. Always keep milk covered. Sour milk can be used up for many kinds of cakes, i.e., soda cakes, scones, gingerbreads, &c. Add the sugar before fruit is cooked; sugar is saved this way, as less is wanted to sweeten properly. Bad eggs float in a mixture of 2 ozs. of salt to a pint of water, good sink. Fresh fish have bright eyes, red gills, firm flesh, and scales that do not rub off easily. Fresh salmon has a white curd between the flakes of the flesh. The tail of a fresh lobster springs back when pulled back. Young birds should have no spur, and their claws should bend without noise.47 Tinned Qoods. Melon. T ENDER Steak, Stock. All tinned goods must be removed from the tin immediately the tin is opened. A tin that bulges is bad, and, therefore, poisonous. Melon is excellent served in slices at the beginning of dinner. Pepper with it is preferable to sugar. Steak can be made tender for certain by brushing it over with salad oil or rubbing it with butter. The former is the safest plan. An enamelled saucepan is the best for making stock.A FEW Notes on Gas Cooking. 0 much cooking is done nowadays by the aid of a gas cooker, that perhaps a few L/'l remarks on the subject may not be out of place. Undoubtedly these cookers are a great boon to many people. For instance, in a small flat they are very much handier than an ordinary range, the heat from which would cause much distress in the household, especially in the summer months. But although many people acknowledge the convenience of gas stoves, they hold the mistaken idea that they are very expensive compared with cooking by coal. Of course, if ser- vants are allowed to use them just as they please, without any regard to economy and management, they may well be so ; but if properly used they are not any more expensive and very much cleaner and more convenient. The gas should always be turned out directly the stove is finished with, not forgotten and left to flare away for several minutes. Too many people, it may be feared, use the gas far too recklessly, hence the heavy gas bills at the end of the quarter, and the complaints of the expense of gas cooking. It should always be managed so that the oven is not used for some 6mall article of diet to be cooked, but two or three things should be baked together if49 possible. For instance, the oven should not be used to bake odds and ends of bread for bread crumbs, but the bread should be put in when the oven is being used for something else. Servants are very- apt to forget to turn out the gas in the oven ; they shut the door and forget all about it. With a gas cooker time and labour are saved in the cleaning of cooking utensils, which keep bright and clean for a long time. Those who use a gas cooker for the first time may find it wise to I’emember that care should be taken that the handles of all pots and pans are not placed so as to be over the gas flames. Experience certainly does it ” in this connection. Enamelled pots and pans cannot be recommended for gas cooking. In baking or grilling meat the gas should always be turned full on when the meat is first put to cook, and kept so for a few minutes. This is done to slightly harden the outside of the meat and so retain the juice. This rule applies to cakes, etc. This does not mean that the gas should be lighted just as the cake or meat is ready to be put in the oven, but the oven should be hot. Great care snould be taken that the inside of the oven be kept scrupulously clean. All the gas jets should be attended to, as often the grease from the meat spurts over them, causing an unpleasant smell, and imparting a disagreeable flavour to the article cooked. Always wash off any grease that has been spilt on the stove with a cloth dipped in hot water. Fat should never be allowed to remain in the dripping pan. In short, absolute cleanliness cannot be over-estimated.%RecipesSOUPS SOUPS should be avoided by the dyspeptic, and no one, who wishes really to enjoy his dinner, should commence it with a large portion of soup. Do not abuse soup ; a few spoonsful of good, hot a°bus°T soup are an excellent prelude to dinner ; so far the wise man will go—but no farther. The stock pot is a household institution, a kind of kitchen savings bank, which inculcates—if rightly used—the habit of thrift. Stock should cost practically nothing—it is made from what otherwise would be wasted. The golden rule for soup is— good sound stock. Beware of using meat even approaching staleness. Be not lavish with herbs or flavourings. A little goes a long way. When colouring with caramel, do not be content with roughly burnt sugar. That is spoilt sugar— not caramel. The cheapest and best caramel is that which you buy. If, however, you prefer to make it, here is a recipe :— CARAMEL.—Mix in a pan one quarter of a pound of sugar with two dessertspoonsful of water. Stir over a moderate fire till it burns deep brown ; then add a quarter pint of cold water and boil for a quarter of an hour. Strain through a fine sieve.54 ROUX (Brown Thickening).—Take equal portions of flour and butter; melt the butter in the oven, and then stir in the flour, mixing it thoroughly. Bake it till it browns on the top, then stir ; repeat till the whole is light brown in colour. While Thickening is made in a similar way, only the mixture must be taken from the oven before it browns. Parsley should always be blanched—i.e., plunged for a few seconds into scalding water. Soup must always be served HOT. PEA SOUP. Ingredients £ pint Split Peas. 1 Onion. 1 Carrot. 1 Turnip. Small Head of Celery. 1 oz. of Flour. oz. of Butter Mint. Salt. Pepper. Soak the peas overnight in cold water. Throw away any that float on the top, as they are bad. Boil the peas with an onion, carrot, turnip, and small head of celery or some celery salt, and a piece of mint, till the peas are tender. Then rub through a wire sieve, add salt and pepper, mix the butter and flour together, add the soup gradually, make hot and serve with powdered mint sprinkled over. This soup is improved if some kind of thin stock is used instead of water, to counteract the dryness of the pea flour.55 POTATO SOUP. Ingredients:— 1^ lb. Potatoes. 1 Onion. 1 oz. Butter. Thyme. 1 dessertspoonful Sago. 1 pint Milk. Bay Leaf. Parsley. Peel and wash the potatoes and boil till cooked. Take a sliced onion and fry in butter, without letting it turn colour. Then add a little water or stock to the onion and boil till quite tender. Rub the potatoes and onion through a wire sieve and add to the milk, previously boiled, with a bay leaf. Put back on fire and bring to boil. Add the sago, pinch of thyme, a little chopped blanched parsley, salt and pepper, and boil till clear. Serve very hot. SIMPLE CALVES' HEAD SOUP. Ingredients Calf's Head. Mace. 2 lbs. Knuckle of Veal. Cloves. 1 Onion Salt. Sweet Herbs. Pepper. Lemon. Thoroughly clean the calf’s head. Put it in a sauce- pan with the knuckle of veal, one onion, a small turnip, a tablespoonful of sweet herbs, three cloves and a blade of mace. Pour over them two quarts of water. Boil slowly for three hours. Then take off the soup, rub the vegetables through a wire sieve ; pick out the meat, chop into small pieces, return to the soup, season with salt and pepper, and return to fire. Simmer for another hour and just before serving add half a lemon sliced thinly.56 APPLE SOUP. Ingredients 1^ lbs. Apples. 2 oz. Sago. 1 Lemon. Gloves. Powdered Cinnamon. Lump Sugar. Peel and core the apples. Boil them with a quart of water, a dozen cloves and the sago; add a small lemon sliced thin, and a small half-teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. Sweeten to taste with lump sugar. Ground Ginger. Take a vegetable marrow, preferably a green one, peel and cut open. Remove all pips and put into a saucepan with the butter, a teaspoonful of powdered white sugar, a good pinch of ginger and pepper and salt. Let the marrow fry gently, being careful it does not turn colour. After cooking in this manner for about ten minutes, add some boiling milk or cream, and let the whole simmer until the marrow is quite cooked. Rub through a wire sieve and serve with fried bread. The quantity of milk depends on the size of the marrow, but it should be borne in mind that the marrow contains a great deal of water, and the soup should not be too thin. VEGETABLE MARROW SOUP. Ingredients 1 Vegetable Marrow. 2 ozs. Blitter. White Sugar.57 RICE SOUP. Ingredients | lb. Rice. 5 pint Milk. 1 Egg. Stock. Soak the rice for a couple of hours. Then place on the fire with three pints of boiling water and a pinch of salt. Boil quickly for twelve minutes, drain, and dash cold water over it to separate the grains. Put back the rice into two pints of good stock and let it boil gently for about thirty minutes. When ready for table, take the yolk of an egg and beat up in half a pint of milk ; add to the soup and serve. A little grated cheese may be added to the soup, if liked. OX'FOOT SOUP. Ingredients 1 Ox-foot. 2 Leeks. 1 Turnip. 2 Potatoes. Saffron. 1 Carrot. Head, of Cel erg. 3 Tomatoes. Parsley. Pea Flour. Thoroughly wash an ox-foot, and place in a sauce- pan with two quarts of water and a large teaspoonful of salt. Bring to the boil; and then let it boil slowly for four hours. Strain through a sieve into a basin. Let it stand till cold, then skim off the fat. Return to the saucepan with a large carrot, the leeks, a turnip, a small head of celery, the tomatoes, potatoes, and a sprig of parsley. Add a little saffron, and if possible a tablespoonful of pea flour made smooth in a little water, pepper and salt to taste, then strain and serve.58 If pea flour is not to hand, take a tablespoonful of flour and an ounce of butter mixed together. Add the soup to this gradually. TOMATO SOUP. Ingredients :— 6 Tomatoes. Bay Leaf. 2 oz. Butter. Pepper. Onion. Salt. Lemon. Put the tomatoes in a saucepan with the butter or dripping, a sliced Spanish onion, and a bay leaf. Cook gently till thoroughly done. Strain through a wire sieve, and add a pint of good stock. Just before serving add a squeeze of lemon juice and pepper and salt. The consistency should be that of pea soup. CABBAGE SOUP. Ingredients 1 Cabbage. Potatoes. 1 Turnip. Salt. Take a white cabbage, wash and slice into pieces, removing the stalk. Throw into a saucepan with two quarts of water, a sliced turnip, four or five sliced potatoes, and salt. Cook for an hour. If by this time the soup is not smooth, take a whisk and make so. Serve with fried bread, and if liked a little grated Parmesan cheese. If some stock is used instead of all water this soup is much improved, or a ham bone or piece of bacon gives an added flavour.59 HARICOT BEAN SOUP. Ingredients 1 pint Haricot Beans. 1 Onion. 3 Gloves. 1 Carrot. Powdered Sugar. 1 oz. Butter. Put the white haricots in cold water overnight and put a small piece of soda in the water. Next morn- ing put them in a saucepan with three pints of water, an onion stuck with three cloves, a carrot, and salt. When the beans are quite tender pound them and rub the whole through a wire sieve, first removing the onion and carrot. Add a little powdered sugar and the butter just before serving. Some cooks put a little rice in this soup. Slice the parsnips and put into one quart of boiling stock, with an onion and a few Bticks of celery. Simmer until quite tender, about an hour. Then rub the whole through a wire sieve, season with pepper and salt, and, if possible, add a little cream. Boil up again and serve with fried crofitons of bread. If this soup be found too sweet, add a little vinegar. But this is entirely a matter of taste. PARSNIP SOUP. Ingredients 1 quart Stock. Pepper. 1^ lbs. of Parsnips. Salt.60 CURRY SOUP. Ingredients Quart of Stock. 2 Apples. Curry Powder. 2 ozs. Flour. Lemon. 2 ozs. Butter or Dripping. Peel and slice the apples, and fry them in two ounces of butter or dripping. Add to this a thinly sliced onion, a squeeze of lemon, and a large teaspoonful of curry powder. Let them cook gently for twenty minutes. Add to these a quart of stock and simmer. Thicken with a little flour, rub through a sieve, and serve with rice.FISH In this country we are rather apt to underrate fish, and to eat too little of it, just as we so often eat too much meat. A day of fish fare occasionally is both pleasant and wholesome, a change for the Fare palate and a good variety for the digestion. Of the cooking of fish we need not say much, but the following few brief hints, simple as they are, may prove useful. Fresh water fish often has a muddy flavour, this may be remedied by washing thoroughly in strongly salted water. Except mackerel and salt fish, put your fish into boiling water. Remove all scum from the top of the water during cooking. Under-cooked fish is very indigestible. Do not have your oven too hot when baking fish. Be careful your fish is quite dry before you egg and bread crumb. A few bay leaves in the water in which you boil cod or any like fish gives them a pleasanter flavour. Scraps of cold fish can usually be made up into pleasant and tasty dishes.62 LOBSTER CURRY Ingredients :— 1 Lobster. Butter. Curry Powder. Flour. Salt. Pepper. Lemon. 1 Onion Stock. 1 Egg. Take a small onion, slice thinly and fry in butter. Add a small cup of stock, salt, teaspoonful of curry powder, and a tablespoonful of flour. Place in this the lobster cut in pieces. Fry gently for twenty minutes, thicken the curry with the yolk of an egg, and add a piece of fresh butter, a squeeze of lemon, and a dash of cayenne pepper. Serve on fried bread. Take a breakfast cup full of browned bread crumbs. (To make these put any remnants of bread and crust into the oven for a few minutes then crush with a rolling pin.) Thoroughly grease a pie dish with butter, and then coat the sides and bottom of the dish thickly with the bread crumbs. Boil a haddock and while hot take the fish away from the bones. FISH PUDDING Ingredients 1 Haddock. 6 Potatoes. 2 oz. Butter. 1 Egg. Pepper. Salt. Bread Crumbs.63 Mix the fish with the potatoes which have been previously cooked and mashed with milk and butter. Season with pepper and salt. Add to this a beaten egg. Sprinkle bread crumbs over the top of the dish and some small pieces of butter and bake for twenty minutes. This pudding is equally good made with any other fish. TURBOT A LA CREME. Ingredients :— 2 lbs. Turbot. 1 pint Milk. Thyme. Parsley. Bay Leaves. 2 ozs. Butter. 1 oz. Flour. 1 Egg. Pepper. Salt. Bread Crumbs. Potatoes. Boil the turbot; pick all the flesh away from the bones. It is always easier to bone fish while quite hot than afterwards. Make a sauce with a pint of milk, a little thyme, parsley and two bay leaves. Let it simmer for twenty minutes. Rub two ounces of butter into an ounce of flour. Stir gradually into the sauce until it thickens, then add the yolk of an egg, pepper and salt. Line the bottom of a pudding dish with this Bauce ; put on this a layer of fish, and so on alternately till the dish is full.v Sprinkle the last row with bread crumbs and some pieces of butter, and round the edges of the dish put a border of mashed potatoes. Bake in the oven till brown. If liked, a little grated cheese may be used in this dish.64 CODFISH A Ingredients 2 lbs. Codfish. 1 pint Milk. 2 ozs. Butter. 1 oz. Flour. 2 tablespoonfuls Worcester Sauce. LA CREME. 1 tablespoonful Anchovy Sauce. Parsley. Bay Leaves. 6 Potatoes. Boil the codfish with two bay leaves. Pick from off the bones, taking away the skin. Make a sauce with half a pint of milk, butter, flour, two tablespoonfuls of Worcester sauce, one tablespoonful of anchovy sauce and parsley. Mix the fish with this sauce. Line pie dish with mashed potatoes, pour in the fish mixed with the sauce. Cover with mashed potatoes and bake a nice brown. FISH CROQUETTES. Ingredients 1 lb. Fish. Anchovy Sauce. 1 Egg. Bread Crumbs. Milk. Flour. Pepper and Salt. Parsley. Take a pound any fish, such as cod, turbot, &c., either fresh or cooked. Pick fine from the bones, and mix with a little seasoning and anchovy sauce. Beat up an egg with half an ounce of flour and a tablespoonful of milk. Mix with the fish. Roll into balls, dip in egg and bread crumbs, and fry a nice crisp brown.65 LOBSTER CROQUETTES Ingredients Lobster. Bread Crumbs. 1 oz. Butter. Lemon. Salad Oil. Cayenne Pepper. 1 Egg. Parsley. Pick out the meat of the lobster, and beat into pieces. Add to the fish one fourth as much bread crumbs, an ounce of butter, grated rind and juice of half a lemon, a dash of a. id oil, and a little cayenne pepper. Make into balls, u*p in egg and bread crumbs, and fry in very hot lard. Garnish with parsley. \ lb. Pork. Two pounds of boiled picked codfish ; three pounds of cold boiled potatoes, chopped in pieces and mixed with the fish. Take three slices of salt pork, cut in small pieces, and fry in fat to a light brown. Add the fish and let it fry gently for ten minutes, being careful not to let it burn. Then stir in thoroughly a tablespoonful of milk and \ ounce of butter. Place in a dish ; bake in a slow oven for half an hour until a brown crust forms. CODFISH HASH. Ingredients 2 lbs. Codfish. 3 lbs. Potatoes. Milk. Butter.66 DRESSED Ingredients 1 Crab. Bread Crumbs. Butter. Lemon. CRAB. Vinegar. Cayenne Pepper. Parsley. Pick all the meat out of the shell, preserving the body of the shell. Beat up finely with one-fourth as much bread crumbs, a large piece of butter, juice of half a lemon, a tablespoonful of vinegar, and sprinkle with cayenne pepper. Put back into shell, sprinkle the top with bread crumbs and bake. Serve in hot shell and garnish with chopped parsley. SCALLOPED FISH. Ingredients Fish. Butter. Anchovy Sauce. Salt. Melted Butter. Pepper. Bread Crumbs. Parsley. This recipe is particularly good for recooking any cold fish that may be left over from a previous meal. Take the fish, pick free from bones and mix with a little anchovy sauce, salt, pepper and parsley. Have ready some melted butter or any fish sauce that may be available. Take some clean soallop shells. Place a layer of sauce at the bottom, then a layer of fish, and so on till the fish is in little mounds. Cover each mound with bread crumbs, and on the top of each place a piece of butter. Put the shells on a dish or tin, and bake in oven about ten minutes when the bread crumbs should be a golden brown colour. Some people prefer to mix the fish with a little grated cheese instead of anchovy sauce.67 HERRINGS WITH MUSTARD SAUCE. Ingredients Scrape and clean the herrings. Score them lightly with a knife the whole length of the fish. Soak them for ten minutes in a little salad oil, seasoned with pepper and salt. Grill over a clear fire. Take an ounce of butter ; melt and stir in a teaspoonful of raw mustard. Serve the herrings with this sauce poured over them. Fresh Herrings. Salad Oil. 1 02. Butter. Mustard. Pegjper. Salt.MEAT AND POULTRY. The housewife often sends up a despairing cry for another meat;—mutton, beef, veal —veal, beef, mutton, and so on, ever the same and ever the same Another sma^ choice. But really, there is ample Meat choice. Cooking has at least two aims, to render our viands more digestible, and to make them more pleasant. In eating, as in other matters, variety is charming, and the charm of variety in our food must be provided by the operations in the kitchen. The kitchen is the centre of the family circle, and it is not time wasted, but rather very well employed, to aim at making the meals pleasantly varied. There are not only many methods of cooking, which to begin with provide variety, but many and varied ways of preparing the food for cooking. A joint need not always be plain “roast” or boiled” ; it may be broken up, and the parts served up as dishes very unlike one another. For example, take sirloin of beef. Cook the undercut as Sirloin. g^g^ ^gg eng as a gagg, an(j the rest roast if possible, if not, then bake. Think, too, how to use up your cold meats in an appetising manner. A plain woman well dressed may look very well, so will a plain dish of cold meat. A cold leg of mutton is not a dish to set before any man ; but neatly cut slices off it, set round in a salad, and nicely garnished, is fit to set before a king. A word upon how to serve up. Let your hot meat come to table hot, not waiun ; let Service. your gjgg g0 ;l0^ and your plates be69 hot. In cold weather serve your gravy in a tureen ; nothing is so unappetising to look on as cool or cooling gravy. To sum up, if thought and time are given to the matter, the meat portion of our daily diet need never lack variety. Of the cooking of poultry there is not much to be said, save, chiefly to draw attention to the fact that it is often over-done. The meat of poultry is generally easily digested, but does not contain much real nourishment. It is not generally known that the short bone of a leg of fowl is the most tasty portion of that bird. The flesh of fowls of all kinds Lardin *s a-^ dlT> f°r which the remedy, arding. £Qo se^om adopted, is larding. Very firm bacon fat must be used for larding purposes, cut into fine strips that will fit easily into the needle. The needle is passed through the meat, then withdrawn, leaving behind it the strip of fat. Lean meats can be advantageously treated in the same way. VEAL CAKE. Ingredients 2 lbs. Lean Veal. Bread Crumbs. Pepper. Seasoning. \ lb. Salt Pork. Salt. Parsley. 2 Eggs. Cut the veal in pieces, removing all gristle and skin. Chop the salt pork finely. Mix together, and add a large cupful of bread crumbs, salt, pepper, chopped parsley and seasoning to taste. Bind together with the eggs : thoroughly mix and bake. This may be eaten either hot or cold.70 VEAL LOAF. Ingredients :— 2 lbs. Veal. Ham. 1 oz. of Butter. Pepper. Sage. 2 Eggs. Take the veal, the bacon or some ham, and chop finely. Mix with this a large cupful of bread crumbs, the butter, salt, pepper, two tablespoonfuls of celery salt, half a teaspoonful of sage, and the onion, chopped. Add the eggs. Pack tightly into a square cake tin, cover with small pieces of butter and a good layer of bread crumbs. Cover with another tin, bake for two hours. Uncover and brown. 2 Rashers of Bacon. Bread Crumbs. Salt. Celery Salt. 1 Small Onion. STEWED CALF'S LIVER. Ingredients 1 lb. Calf's Liver. 1 Rasher of Bacon. 1 oz. Butter. Pepper. Salt. 1 Egg. Take the calf’s liver, parboil, and chop up finely. Add the rasher of bacon finely chopped. Return to saucepan and cook till tender. Skim at intervals. When tender, season with pepper, salt, and the butter. Thicken with the egg, and serve on slices of fried bread. This makes a good breakfast dish if served on toasted bread.71 TONGUE TOAST. Ingredients Gold Boiled Tongue. Cream or Milk. Eggs. Take some cold boiled tongue. Mince finely, season to taste, and wet with a little cream or milk. To every pound of meat add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Stir over the fire for a few minutes. Pour over hot buttered toast and serve. Garnish with parsley. Ham may well be substituted for tongue. SALT BEEF HASH. Ingredients H lbs. Salt Beef. 2 Large Onions. & Potatoes. 2 Carrots. Salt. Pepper. Stock. Boil the salt beef till tender, and chop into pieces. Take the onions, slice and fry in butter a nice brown. Add to the onion the chopped meat, potatoes boiled and sliced, carrots chopped, salt and pepper, and enough stock to moisten. Simmer gently for twenty minutes. BEEF AU GRATIN. Ingredients Cold Beef. Bread Crumbs. Rice. Stock. Milk (or Eggs). Take some cold beef, chop finely and season to taste. Wet with gravy or stock and place on a dish. Place72 around the meat a border of cold cooked rice, moistened with milk and an egg. Sprinkle over all a layer of bread crumbs and a little butter. Heat in oven and serve. Be careful to use sufficient gravy to keep the meat moist. TOMATO HASH. Ingredients 1 lb. of Tomatoes. Cold Meat. Bread. Butter. Pepper. Salt. Herbs. 2 Eggs. Slice the tomatoes and put a layer at the bottom of a buttered pie dish. Then put a layer of thinly-sliced cold meat, cover with thin bread and butter ; repeat until the dish is full. Season with pepper, salt and herbs to taste, pour over it the beaten eggs and brown in oven. CORNISH PASTIES. Ingredients \ lb. Mutton. Paste. 2 Potatoes. Salt. Onion. Thyme. Pepper. Parsley. Mince the meat finely, add the onion chopped small and the potatoes cut in dice. Season with pepper, salt, a pinch of thyme and chopped parsley. Make some paste as for pie crust, cut in small squares. Place a tablespoonful of the mixture in the middle of each square, press the corners together, lay on a greased tin and bake for half an hour. Make a small hole in the top of each pasty.73 TOTJRNEDOS. Ingredients Undercut of Beef. Tomatoes. Take a pound of undercut of beef. Cut into four- small rounds the size of the top of a wine glass. Grill gently. Fry four rounds of bread a little larger than the meat. When the beef is cooked place upon the rounds of bread with half a small cooked tomato on each collop of meat. A scalded oyster may be used instead of the tomato if liked. The success of this dish depends on the cooking of the meat, which must not be overdone. CURRIED STEAK. Ingredients lb. Steak, small Onion. Lemon. Curry Powder. Rice. Take the steak, grill till nearly done. Then take off the fire and cut in good sized pieces. Put the butter in a frying pan, and fry the onion sliced finely. When the onion is cooked, put in the meat and fry lightly for a few minutes. Add two tablespoonfuls of stock and a good squeeze of lemon. Thicken with a teaspoonful of flour. Add a tablespoonful of curry powder and simmer for twenty minutes. Just before serving add a dessertspoonful of vinegar. Serve with a border of rice, carefully boiled. A dash of cold water over the rice, immediately it is taken off the fire, will separate the grains. 2 oz. of Butter. Stock. Flour. Vinegar.74 ROLLED VEAL. Ingredients :— Breast of Veal. Slice of Ham. Forcemeat Stock. Pickled Gherkin. Take a breast of veal. Bone it and spread some veal forcemeat over the inside. Sprinkle over the force- meat a tablespoonful of pickled gherkin, finely chopped. Place over this a slice of lean uncooked ham. Roll the veal tightly, and tie with string to keep it together. Put in a stewpan, cover with stock and simmer gently for three hours. This is best eaten cold. SEA PIE. Ingredients 1^ lbs. Steak. 2 Onions. 1 Carrot. Flour. Baking Powder. Take the meat and cut into pieces. Chop up the vegetables small. Mix together and season to taste. Place in a stewpan and just cover with water or stock. Place over gentle heat to simmer. Make a stiff paste with flour, baking powder, chopped suet and water. Roll out to the size of the saucepan. Place over the meat and simmer till the meat is cooked, about two hours. When serving, remove the crust carefully, put the meat and vegetables on a hot dish, and place the pie crust cut in neat pieces round them. \ lb. Suet. 1 Turnip. \ Head of Celery. 2 Potatoes. *GRENADINES OF VEAL. Ingredients Fat Bacon, 1 Carrot. 1 Turnip. 2 lbs. Fillet of Veal. 1 Onion. Bouquet of Herbs. 2 Tomatoes. 1 pint Peas. Cut the meat into neat little fillets. Cut the vege- tables into small pieces, and place at the bottom of a stewpan. Then place the fillets on the top of the vegetable, with a couple of rashers of fat bacon over them. Just cover with stock; stew gently. When cooked, strain off the stock, and boil with half a pint more to a strong glaze. Dish in a circle, with the vegetables in the middle of the dish ; pour a little glaze over each cutlet. Cut the meat into thin slices. Chop the suet finely. Add a teacupful of bread crumbs, the bacon chopped small, salt, pepper, parsley, and a pinch of thyme, and moisten with part of a beaten egg. Place a tablespoonful of this mixture on each slice, roll, and tie up with fine string. Put them in a saucepan with the stock poured over them, and stew gently for BEEF OLIVES. Ingredients 1 lb. Rump Steak. 2 Rashers of Bacon. Salt. Pepper. 1 Egg. 2 oz. of Suet. 1 pint of Stock. Bread Crumbs. Parsley. Thyme.76 two hours. Then remove the string, place on a border of mashed potatoes or spinach. Thicken the gravy with a little flour and butter mixed together, add a squeeze of lemon juice, and pour over the olives. PORK STEAKS AND APPLES. Ingredients :— 3 lbs. Loin of Pork. Butter. 4 Apples. Divide the pork into chops and trim away most of the fat. Grease the gridiron and lay the chops upon it. Grill till cooked and nicely browned. Peel and slice the apples, fry in butter, and serve round the chops. LIVER DUMPLINGS. Ingredients 1 lb. Calf's Liver. Bread Crumbs. 3 oz. Bacon. 1 Onion. 2 02. Suet. Seasoning. Flour. Skin the liver and rub through a sieve. Chop the bacon finely and mix with the liver. Add one break- fastcupful of bread crumbs, the minced onion, chopped suet, and seasoning to taste. Mix well with cold water and enough flour to keep the dumplings together. Roll into small balls, and boil in salt and water for twenty minutes. Test one of the dumplings by throwing it into boiling water. If it breaks add a little more flour.77 VEAL OLIVE PIE. Ingredients Some thin slices of cold Fillet of Veal. Some thin slices of Bacon. Cayenne Pepper. Gravy or Stock. Sausage Meat. Paste. Parsley. Place the slices of bacon upon the slices of veal, and spread sausage meat over them and a dash of cayenne pepper and a little parsley. Roll the slices up and fill a pie dish with them. Add the gravy and if possible a little cream. Cover with puff paste and bake. SCALLOPED MEAT. Ingredients Some cold Beef or Veal. Tomato Sauce. Melted Butter. Butter. Bread Crumbs. Cut some cold meat into quite small pieces. Take some clean scallop shells, put a layer of melted butter or any white sauce at the bottom, then add a layer of meat and a little tomato sauce. Repeat till there is sufficient in the shell. Sprinkle over the top some baked breadcrumbs. Above all put a small piece of butter. Bake in a oven till the breadcrumbs are a nice brown.78 MIROTON Ingredients Cold Bailed Beef. Stock. White Wine. Salt. OF BOILED BEEF. 2 Onions. Butter. Pepper. Caramel. Cut some cold boiled beef in slices. Slice two onions finely, and frj- lightly in butter. Add a tablespoonful of stock. Thicken with a tablespoon- ful of flour. Stir for a minute then add half a tumbler of white wine. Season with pepper, salt and a bay leaf. Colour with a few drops of caramel. Add the meat and simmer for twenty minutes. Remove the bay leaf, and serve on a hot dish with carrots, and potatoes baked in their skins. LYON'S TRIPE. Ingredients 2 lbs. Tripe. 2 ozs. Butter. 1 Onion. Pepper. Cut the tripe into small fillets. Slice a large onion and fry in two ounces of butter, but do not let it turn colour. Season with pepper and salt, and add the tripe. Stir over a gentle fire until the tripe is cooked, then add the yolk of an egg and some chopped parsley, and serve. Salt. 1 Egg. Parsley.79 COLD FOWL. Ingredients Gold Chicken. ^ pint Milk. Lemon. Beetroot. 1 oz. Butter. 1 oz. Gelatine. Salt. 2 Eggs. Take 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, \ pint milk, mix quite smooth, over the fire and add 1 oz. gelatine dissolved in a little water. Remove from the fire, add a little lemon juice, and salt to taste. Strain into a basin, let it cool, and thicken. Dip in the pieces of chicken cut in neat joints, place on a hair sieve ; when cool, dip them in again, till well covered with the sauce. Arrange on a dish with a border of sliced beetroot, alternately with the white rings of two hard boiled eggs. Grate the yolks over the fowl and serve. This makes a very effective supper dish. CHICKEN MOULD. Ingredients 1 Chicken. Butter. Pepper. Salt. \ oz. of Gelatine. The fowl must be boiled till the meat can be easily removed from the bones. The water in which it has been cooked should not exceed one pint when the boiling is complete. Take the meat from the bones, removing all gristle, skin and fat. Cut it into moderate sized pieces and put in a wet mould. Having skimmed the fat from the liquor, add a very small piece of butter, pepper and salt, and half an ounce of gelatine ; then pour over the meat, being 6ure first that the gelatine has thoroughly dissolved. Serve garnished with cold vegetables.80 Rice. Butter. CHICKEN PIE Ingredients Chicken. Pepper. Butter. Salt. The chicken must be thoroughly stewed. Place the meat in a pie dish, having first lined the sides with pastry ; add the water from the stew, not exceeding in quantity half a pint. Add butter, pepper and salt. Cover with crust and bake. Boil two chickens until you can easily remove the meat from the bones, using as small a quantity of water as possible. Break up the meat, removing the skin, gristle and fat, and replace in the pot. Add butter, pepper, salt. Bring to boiling point again. Then pour the mixture into a dish, the bottom of which has been covered with slices of hard boiled eggs. Cover the mixture, putting a weight on top. Then set aside to cool. It will turn out in shape. Serve garnished with cold vegetables. CHICKEN CAKE. Ingredients :— 2 Chickens. Pepper. Eggs. Butter. Salt. CHICKEN AND RICE Ingredients : 1 Chicken. Parsley. Thyme. Stock. Laurel. Onion. Cloves.81 \ Put the chicken in a stewpan with the giblets, with water—or preferably stock—sufficient to cover. When brought to boiling point, add a little parsley, thyme, laurel, and an onion stuck wuth cloves. Stew gently, uncovered. It will take about an hour and a half to cook. Wash a pound of rice and add to it the stock from the fowl in the proportion of three times as much stock as rice. Cook gently, covered. When most of the stock has been taken up by the rice, add a little more and an ounce of butter. Stir so as to keep the grains of rice separate. Cook till tender. Serve the food surrounded by the rice. GOOSE WITH APPLE STUFFING. Ingredients Goose. Apples. Stuff the goose with quartered apples. Roast or bake, and serve garnished with water-cress. OLD BIRDS. Ingredients An Old Bird. 2 Rashers of Bacon. 2 oz. Butter. Gravy. Cream. Flour. Brown Roux. To remedy its toughness, cook as follows. Brown the rashers of bacon and the butter in a baking tin, then place the fowl in the tin with a large piece of butter upon the breast. Add a pint of gravy. Bake quietly for about half an hour. Baste the fowl well with a cupful of cream into which a teaspoonful of flour and one of brown roux (see page 54) have been stirred. Bake till tender.VEGETABLES. Whatever some folk may say of meat, vegetables everyone admits are an essential part of a healthy dietary. Yet in England much too little attention is Neglect &*ven their preparation ; we are famous eglect. £or our roast beef, but not for the way in which we cook our vegetables. Potatoes, as we have said before, need not always be boiled. However they are cooked they should be well cooked, an under-done potato is an insult to our digestion. Vegetables should not be prepared for cooking long before the operation of cooking is commenced, e.g., potatoes should be peeled just before going into the pot. A vegetable course—pure and simple—is a very pleasant change in the programme of a dinner. Cauliflower au gratin, asparagus, celeriac, salsify, peas, &c., are nice by themselves. Vegetables should be as fresh as possible. Always put a little soda in hard water. FRIED PARSNIPS. Ingredients : 3 Large Parsnips. Salt. 1 Egg. Butter. Bread Crumbs. Boil the parsnips in water with a little salt till quite cooked. Cut each one into four strips, dip in egg and bread crumbs and fry to a nice brown in hot lard or butter.83 BAKED CABBAGE. Ingredients Callage. Salt. 1 oz. Butter. Pepper. Boil a cabbage in water with a lump of salt and a small piece of soda. When cooked, drain in a colander till quite free from water. Chop up finely, season with pepper and salt. Mix in an ounce of butter and bake for an hour in the oven. CABBAGE AND MILK. Ingredients Callage. Milk. Flour. Pepper. Salt. Butter. This is another way to cook cabbage. Cut the cabbage up small, boil in milk thirty minutes, then thicken the milk with a little flour, add pepper, salt and a piece of butter. TOMATO PUDDING. Ingredients Tomatoes. Potatoes. Pepper. 1 Egg. Salt. Bread Grumls. Butter a pie dish well. At the bottom of the dish put a layer of sliced tomato, then a layer of mashed potatoes, and so on till the dish is full. Season with pepper and salt, pour over a beaten egg and sprinkle the top with bread crumbs. Bake brown.84 PARSNIP FRITTERS. Ingredients Parsnips. Flour. Salt. Milk (or Cream). 2 Eggs. Butter. Boil three or four parsnips till tender, and mash. Take half a cup of milk or cream, and mix with it two tablespoonfuls of flour, two eggs, salt and an ounce of butter. Add to the mashed parsnips, and fry a delicate brown in butter or dripping. Serve very hot. SCALLOPED CAULIFLOWER. Ingredients Cauliflower. Bread Crumbs. Butter. Cheese. Potatoes. Boil a cauliflower till tender. Take away the flower from the leaves, mix with half its weight of mashed potatoes. Put a tablespoonful in some scallop shells with a piece of butter, sprinkle with bread crumbs and bake. A little grated cheese may be added to the mixture if approved. TOMATO PIE, Ingredients :— Tomatoes. Butter. Salt. Paste. Potatoes Milk. Pepper. Thyme. 1 Egg.85 Slice up an equal number of ripe tomatoes and potatoes. Put in a pie dish and cover with sauce made with a little flour, milk, and butter. Season with pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and a little thyme. Add a sliced hard boiled egg. Cover the pie with paste, the same as for a meat pie, and bake. If mushrooms are added to the pie it will be greatly improved. CURRIED LENTILS. INGREDIENTS ^ pint Lentils. Butter. Flour. Salt. 1 Onion. Stock. Curry Powder. Pepper. Place the lentils to soak overnight. The next day boil till tender. Take the onion, slice thinly, and fry in butter or dripping. Add to this a cupful of stock or the water in which the lentils have been boiled, a tablespoonful of flour, a teaspoonful of curry powder, salt and pepper. Let it simmer for a few minutes, then add the cooked lentils and serve. FRIED CARROTS. Ingredients Carrots. Pepper. Salt. Egg. Bread Crumbs. Full grown carrots should be used for this dish. Parboil the carrots. Cut in slices lengthways, sprinkle with pepper and salt, dip in egg and bread crumbs, and fry a nice brown colour.86 BEAN CROQUETTES. Ingredients Haricot Beans. 2 Tomatoes. Bread Crumbs. Pepper. Salt. Thyme. Egg. Take some cold boiled haricot beans, say half a pint, mash them, add two large tomatoes which have been baked and the skin removed, bread crumbs to make them stiff enough to mould, and seasoning of pepper and salt and a little thyme. Make into flat cakes, dip in egg and bread crumbs, and fry in hot lard. BEANS AND TOMATOES. Ingredients :— Haricot Beans. Flour. 1 oz. Butter. Tomato Sauce. Take half a pint of haricot beans, boil till tender. Strain off the water from the beans, thicken it with flour and an ounce of butter, add two tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce or some cooked tomatoes, and boil. Pour over the beans and serve. CARROT PUDDING. Ingredients 6 Carrots. Bread Crumbs. 2 oz. Butter. Salt. Pepper. 2 Eggs. Take the carrots, boil till quite tender. Rub through a sieve, add half their weight in bread crumbs, 2 ozs. of butter, salt and pepper, and mix together with two eggs. Butter a pudding dish and bake for half an hour.87 BOSTON BEANS. Ingredients Haricot Beans. \ lb. Pork. Golden Syrup. Salt. Take a pint of haricot beans, which have been previously soaked for twelve hours. Boil till tender and strain. Take half a pound of salt fat pork, par- boil and cut into dice. Mix the pork with the haricot beans, put in a baking dish with a table- spoonful of golden syrup, a teaspoonful of salt, and a little water. Cover with another dish and bake for three hours. COLCANNON. Ingredients Potatoes. Milk. Butter. Cabbage. Take four large potatoes. Boil and mash with milk and butter. Have ready a cabbage boiled and chopped finely. Mix the potatoes and cabbage together with an ounce of butter. Make very hot and serve. Any cold potatoes and cabbage that may be in the larder can be utilised for this dish and reheated. TOMATOES AU GRATIN. Ingredients 1 lb. Tomatoes. \ pint Bread Crumbs. 2 oz. Butter. Pepper. Salt. Take the tomatoes, slice and put a layer at the bottom of a buttered pie dish. Cover with bread88 crumbs, season with pepper and salt; and place small pieces of butter here and there. Then pro- ceed to put another layer of tomatoes, bread crumbs and butter, and so on till the dish is full. Bake for half an hour. RICE AND TOMATOES. Ingredients : — Rice. Tomatoes. Worcester Sauce. 1 oz. of Butter. Take a brealcfastcupful of rice. Wash and put into boiled salted water. Cook till nearly tender. Then add a tablespoonful of Worcester sauce. Finish cooking, add an ounce of butter, and four good sized cooked tomatoes which have been skinned. Beat up all together and serve very hot. If the rice be boiled in stock, the sauce will not be necessary. Peeled tomatoes, which are sold all ready in tins, will be found very useful for this dish. This dish is very welcome after cold meat. BRUSSELS SPROUTS IN BUTTER. Ingredients :— 2 lbs. of Brussels Sprouts. 2 oz. of Butter. Boil two pounds of Brussels sprouts till tender. Put in a colander, pour cold water over them, this retains their original colour, then press all the water out. Warm in a saucepan with two ounces of butter. Shake over fire to prevent sticking. Season with pepper and salt and serve.89 POTATOES MAITRE D'HOTEL. Ingredients :— Potatoes. Butter. Milk. Parsley. Pepper. Nutmeg. Salt. Flour. Boil six large potatoes; when cooked, cut in slices. Put the potatoes in a saucepan with a small piece of butter. Cover with equal quantities of milk and water ; add a little chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Cook over a good fire till the liquor is half reduced. Add two ounces of butter, and a teaspoonful of flour. Mix all thoroughly well together and serve very hot. MACARONI AND TOMATOES. Ingredients ; — \ lb. Macaroni. Butter. 1 lb. Tomatoes. Pepper. Salt. Bread Crumbs. Boil half a pound of macaroni till tender. Bake at the same time a pound of tomatoes with two ounces of butter and keep them well basted. Remove the stalks and skins and beat up to a pulp. Put the macaroni into a dish, season with pepper and salt, add the tomatoes and toss lightly until well mixed together. Sprinkle with bread crumbs and moisten with a small piece of butter. Bake in the oven till a nice brown.so STUFFED POTATOES. Ingredients 6 Potatoes. Sausage Meat. Salt. Butter. Take six large potatoes. Peel and wash. Cut off the small end of each potatoe so they may stand upright. Then take a potato scoop and empty out a large hole in the inside of the potatoes. Fill this hole up with sausage meat. Lay the potatoes in a tin baking dish, sprinkle with salt, and moisten with butter. Bake in a good oven till a nice brown, taking care to keep the potatoes well basted.SALADS. A SIMPLE salad is a simple dish to prepare, yet how rarely when confronted with it, can we truthfully exclaim “ Perfection ! '* The chief fault with English salads is as a rule that there is too much dressing, the Sweet second that the dressing has not been s 'TEEty carefully mixed. In lettuce salad the IMP ICI * first necessity is that your lettuce should be fresh, the second that it should be dry. Do not wash your lettuce as if it were a dish-cloth, but taking it from the water, gently shake it, then dry by tossing it in a dry cloth. Then break them up with your fingers, never letting a knife come near them, and of course use only the hearts. Never dress your salad till just before it is to go on the table. Let the procedure be thus :—heap up your lettuce, or collect the other materials of which it is to be made. Then in an empty bowl mix the dressing ; into this put your salad, and turn it over and over with a spoon and fork, till thoroughly covered—or coated—with the dressing. Then lift out into the bowl in which it is to be served, leaving the superfluous dressing in the first bowl. The best plain salad dressing is :—two parts of best salad oil to one of vinegar. In the vinegar— A Rla|n say for example a tablespoonful—stir a Dressing mustard-spoonful of French mustard (or ordinary English), a pinch of salt and a dash of pepper. Then stir in the oil.92 We will only give one other dressing—the sovereign of them all, fit accompaniment for lobster, M salmon, chicken and other dainties— ONNAI8E. l\fayonnaise. It is easy to make, but must be made with care. Ingredients:—The yolks of two eggs, half a pint of salad oil, and two tablespoonfuls of Tarragon vinegar. Method:—Beat the yolks smooth in a basin with a very small quantity of cayenne pepper (to suit taste), salt and a teaspoonful of castor sugar. Very gradually stir in the oil and vinegar, till the result is about as thick as fresh butter. It should not be liquid. And lastly, here is a dressing that is not made— at any rate by cook—simply and solely the juice of a lemon : this is excellent with a plain lettuce. CELERY AND BEETROOT SALAD. Cut the beetroot into small pieces about the size of an average lump of sugar; break the celery into pieces about an inch long. Mix with the plain dressing. The celery can be raw, or boiled—not over boiled. CUCUMBER AND TOMATO SALAD. Slice up an equal quantity of cucumber and tomato in slices about one quarter of an inch thick. Use the plain dressing, and transfer the salad to a bowl lined with fresh lettuce leaves. Mayonnaise dressing can also be used.93 FRENCH BEAN SALAD. Cut the cold beans in fine strips—lengthwise. Use the plain dressing and garnish with a few slices of beetroot, or tomato. BROAD BEAN SALAD. Use only the green part of the cold beans, rubbing oft' the thick skins. Mix with a little chopped parsley. Use plain dressing. Garnish with sliced tomato. SPANISH ONION SALAD. Pull two cold well boiled Spanish onions to pieces. Mix with a little chopped parsley. Use plain dressing (allowing a trifle more pepper than usual). POTATO SALAD (i). Cut up cold firm potatoes into slices about half an inch thick. Mix with a little chopped parsley. Use plain dressing. Mix this salad an hour before use. TOMATO SALAD. Cut into thin slices tomatoes and Spanish onions (the latter cooked) in the proportion of four parts of the first to one of the latter. Mix with plain dressing. FISH SALAD. Use any cold boiled white fish, or salmon, or lobster. Cut into small pieces ; mix with lettuce, or celery. Mayonnaise sauce.94 POTATO SALAD (2). Slice up cold firm potatoes, add a small quantity of chopped blanched almonds and chopped cooked Spanish onion ; mix in a little chopped parsley. Mayonnaise or plain dressing. Garnish with sliced lemon. ASPARAGUS SALAD, Cut the hard ends off cold boiled asparagus. Use Mayonnaise, or, and preferably, plain dressing. BRUSSELS SPROUTS AND BEETROOT. Take equal portions of whole Brussels sprouts, boiled, and beetroot, cut into pieces similar in size to the sprouts. Mix with plain dressing. MEAT SALAD. Cut cold lean beef into pieces the size of an average lump of sugar, mix with lettuce and beetroot in small pieces. Use plain dressing.SAUCES. SAUCES are the savour of cookery, and the cook who can make a good sauce is a household treasure. Discrimination should be used in the choice and use of sauces. A sauce is intended more to bring out the existing flavour from than to add The Aim another whatever dish it is eaten with. OF A For example, it is a crime to swamp a AUCE‘ delicately fried fillet of sole with Wor- cester or Harvey sauce ; far better add a little plain melted butter (no flour) or a very mild anchovy sauce. Again, asparagus should be eaten with plain melted butter, made thus : melt, in a small enamelled pot kept for this purpose, just sufficient butter for the occasion, and season with a very little salt and a speck or two of cayenne pepper. This, though the simplest, is one of the best of sauces, and can be used to satisfaction with almost every hot dish, notably fish, fried or boiled, boiled potatoes, asparagus, &c., &c. In using flour in any sauce be very careful that it is thoroughly cooked—sauces should not have any relationship to uncooked pastry. ORANGE SAUCE. Ingredients 3 Oranges. 4 lumps of Sugar. A wineglass of Marsala. Full teaspoonf ul of Cornflour. The oranges must be well rubbed with the lumps of sugar, to extract the fragrant oil. Place the sugar in a96 / saucepan, adding the juice of the oranges, carefully- strained. Stir in the cornflour and the wine. Boii, but do not let it be too thick. If it becomes so add some more juice from another orange. BROWN BREAD SAUCE* Ingredients 2 oz. of Fresh Butter. Baked Bread Crumbs. Salt. Pepper. Clarify the butter and add a teaspoonful of baked bread crumbs, fry for a minute, stirring it carefully. Remove from fire, add pepper and salt, and serve very hot. CELERY SAUCE. Ingredients 2 Heads of Celery. 2 oz. of Butter. Sugar. 2 oz. of Flour, it pint of Milk. Cut the heads of celery into small pieces ; add equal quantities of sugar and salt, a little white pepper and the butter. Stew slowly till pulpy, but not brown ; add the flour and milk. Simmer gently for twenty minutes, rub through a sieve and serve. Particularly good with turkey. It is safer to stew the celery in water first, carefully straining off the water. If this be done ten minutes will cook the sauce.97 ONION SAUCE. Ingredients :— 1 large Spanish Onion. % pint of Milk. 1 oz. of Butter. 1 oz. of Flour. Salt. Pepper. Boil the onion till tender and mince finely. Boil the milk, add butter, salt and pepper, stir in the onion, thicken with flour, which must be moistened with a little of the milk. HORSE RADISH SAUCE. Ingredients 1 gill of Vinegar. 1 large teaspoonful of \ teaspoonful of Salt. Mustard. 1 teaspoonful of Sugar. Horse Radish. Mix ingredients and pour over grated horse radish. MAITRE D’HOTEL SAUCE. INGREDIENTS:— 2 ozs. of Butter. 2 Lemons. Parsley. Cayenne Pepper. Salt. Put the butter into a saucepan, with a large table spoonful of chopped parsley, blanched ; add to this juice of two lemons, strained, cayenne pepper and salt to taste. Boil for a few moments.98 GOOSEBERRY SAUCE. Ingredients 2 lbs. of Ripe Goose- 1 lb. of Sugar. berries. 1 gill of Vinegar. Gloves. Cinnamon. Put the vinegar into a saucepan with the gooseberries and sugar ; boil until quite thick. Add seasoning of cloves and cinnamon to taste. Will keep good bottled. To be eaten with meat. WHITE FOAM SAUCE. Ingredients :— H ozs. Butter. 1 oz. of Sugar. Flour. ^ pint Milk. Work butter and sugar together to consistency of cream ; put scant half pint of milk in a saucepan, when it boils thicken with a little flour. Remove from fire, and stir in quickly butter and sugar. Should be like white foam. Flavour with vanilla or lemon to taste. Serve with boiled puddings. HARE SAUCE. Ingredients 2 oz. Butter. Wine or Lemon Teacupful of Castor Flavouring. Sugar. Nutmeg. Stir sugar and butter together to a cream ; flavour with wine or lemon essence to taste ; smooth top, and sprinkle with a little nutmeg.99 SEA SAUCE. Ingredients : \ pint Melted Butter. 2 Anchovies. 1 Lemon. Salt. 3 Shallots. 1 teaspoonful of Capers Pepper. Make melted butter, with flour and milk ; add to this capers and shallots chopped fine, the anchovies pounded and a little lemon rind. Flavour with pepper, salt and juice of a lemon. Simmer till the anchovies are dissolved. Bread. Wash and stew the cherries. Take out kernels, put them in a saucepan, adding sufficient water to just cover them, simmer for fifteen minutes. Put the cherries into a saucepan with half a pint of water, add four cloves, port, a small slice of toasted bread, and sugar. Stew till fruit is soft. Strain through sieve, add liquor from kernels, boil again and serve. CHERRY SAUCE Ingredients 1 lb. of Cherries. Cloves. Tablespoonful of Port. Sugar.100 CUCUMBER SAUCE. Ingredients 2 Young Cucumbers. Pepper. Butter. Salt. Nutmeg. Cut the cucumbers into thick slices, and fry lightly in butter. Add pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Add sufficient gravy or stock to cover, and simmer till cucumbers are quite tender. Melted butter may be used instead of gravy, if preferred. TOMATO SAUCE. Ingredients :— Tin of Peeled Tomatoes. Spanish Onion. Empty the tomatoes into a saucepan, with the onion sliced thinly. Add dessertspoonful of salt and the peppercorns. Boil for ten minutes. Moisten a tablespoonful of cornflour with water, stir in thoroughly, adding a teaspoonful of vinegar. Boil for five minutes longer. Very good with cold meats. Will keep some days. Ingredients :— i pint Melted Butter. Treacle. Lemon. Make some melted butter, add a tablespoonful of treacle, and a good squeeze of lemon. Excellent with boiled puddings. 6 Peppercorns. Cornflour. Vinegar. GOLDEN SAUCE.101 RASPBERRY SAUCE. Ingredients :— \ pint Melted Butter. Sugar. Raspberry Syrup. Make a half pint of melted butter, add a dessert- spoonful of sugar, and a tablespoonful of raspberry- syrup. Boil. Very good with batter or suet pudding. SAUCE FOR BRAWNS, COLD MEATS, &c. Ingredients Vinegar. Sugar. Mustard. Thoroughly mix three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one teaspoonful of made mustard, and a dessertspoonful of castor sugar. Excellent with brawn, &c.SWEETS. SWEETS are treacherous in many ways ; some of the nicest are by no means the most digestible, and the reverse of this holds good. But on the whole we need never be at a loss for sweetmeats, which are both harmless and pleasant to the taste. Many boiled puddings are heavy, because the water is not kept at the boil while cooking. Odd pieces of bread can be utilized in many puddings, among them one of the best, apple charlotte. Most boiled puddings—many of which do not look nice cold—can be made most palatable fried in slices, and sprinkled with soft sugar. But after all, hints on puddings are hardly wanted, for in this branch of cooking more than in any other, experience is the best teacher. CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE. Ingredients :— 1 oz. Cornflour. Loaf Sugar. 1 oz. Powdered Choco- 1 pint Milk, late. Mix the cornflour quite smooth with a little of the milk, then add the chocolate and mix thoroughly. Place the rest of the milk in a saucepan on the fire with the sugar. When nearly boiling stir in the cornflour and chocolate and keep stirring over the fire till it thickens. Pour into a -wetted mould, and place to get cold.103 RASPBERRY PANCAKE. Ingredients : ^ lb. of Flour. Pint of Milk. 3 Eggs. Raspberry Jam. Lard for Frying. Make a batter with the flour, eggs, and milk, and fry in pancakes. Turn the pancakes on kitchen paper. Spread rather thinly with raspberry jam, roll and serve. , APPLE BASKETS. Ingredients 8 Cooking Apples. Flour. 2 Eggs. Sugar. Pint Milk. Pare the apples. Remove the core with apple corer so as to leave the anples whole. Stand the apples in a pie dish, and fill the holes of the apples with sugar. Pour over them a thin batter made with two eggs and a pint of milk. Bake in a quick oven and serve with sifted sugar. BROWN BESSY. Ingredients Bread Crumbs. Cloves. 4 Apples. 2 oz. Butter. Sugar. Mixed Spice. Butter a pie dish, and place a layer of chopped apple at the bottom. Sprinkle with sugar, a few pieces of butter, two cloves and a pinch of powdered spice. Then put a layer of bread crumbs. Repeat until the104 dish is full, having a layer of bread crumbs at the top. Cover closely and bake forty minutes in a moderate oven, then uncover and brown quickly. Serve with sugar and cream. LADYWELL PUDDING. Ingredients :— Bread. 2 Eggs. Stewed Fruit. Sugar. 2 oz. Butter. Spice. Take some dry pieces of bread and soak in boiling water. When soft mix with the bread a large break- fastcupful of any kind of stewed fruit; beat up together. Add the butter, the yolks of the eggs, spice and sugar. Bake in the oven twenty minutes. When the pudding is nearly cooked, beat up the white of the eggs, and spread over the top of the pudding. Put back in the oven and brown. To be served with sweet sauce. FIG PUDDING. Ingredients \ lb. Figs. 2 Eggs. Bread Crumbs. Milk. 2 oz. Butter. Flour. 2 oz. Sugar. Chop the figs up into very small pieces and add the butter. Mix with this a teacupful of bread crumbs 2 oz. of flour, and the sugar. Add two beaten eggs and a little milk. Boil for three hours in a buttered mould. Serve with sweet sauce.105 ORANGE PUDDING, Ingredients :— Stale Sponge Cakes. 3 Eggs. ,3 Oranges. 1 pint of Milk. Take some stale sponge cakes, cut into slices and line the bottom of a pie dish. Slice three oranges and place on the sponge cakes. Then make a custard of three eggs and a pint of milk, leaving out the whites of two of the eggs. Pour the custard over the pudding, and pile over all the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Put in the oven until brown. ELIZABETH PUDDING. Ingredients Tapioca. Sugar. 6 large Apples. Take a breakfastcupful of tapioca, soaked overnight in a pint of water. Chop six large apples very fine and mix with the tapioca. Add white sugar to taste. Bake three hours in slow oven. Specially suitable for invalids. SPECIAL PIE. Ingredients ^ lb. of Raisins. 6 Apples. Sugar. Cloves. Nutmeg. Butter. Make some pie crust; take a shallow baking tin, line the bottom, but not the sides, with the crust; chop the apples and put a thick layer on the pie crust. Add a layer of chopped raisins, sugar, small pieces of butter,106 six cloves, and a little nutmeg. Cover with crust, bake for two hours in a slow oven. When serving, turn out into a dish and sift white sugar over it. CARAMEL CUSTARD. Ingredients Pint of Milk. Castor Sugar. 2 Eggs. Brown Sugar. Salt. Vanilla Essence. 1 oz. of Cornflour. Put the milk, with a tablespoonful of castor sugar and a pinch of salt, into a basin, and place the basin in a saucepan of hot water over the lire. Mix the cornflour with a little cold milk and bring to the boil. Beat up the eggs in a large basin. Then take a table- spoonful of brown sugar, place it in a saucepan and stir over the fire till it is thoroughly scorched, taking care not to burn it. Pour the hot milk on to the eggs, then pour the mixture in a saucepan, thicken with the cornflour, and immediately before removing from the fire stir in the scorched sugar. Remove from fire and add vanilla flavouring generously. Note.—The scorched sugar must be thoroughly stirred into the custard till dissolved. Serve cold. ORANGE CREAM. Ingredients 1 Lemon. 1 oz. Castor Sugar. 2 ozs. Cornflour. 3 Oranges. 2 Eggs. Vanilla Essence. Put a pint of water, the juice and pulp of the lemon, and the sugar, into a saucepan. When boiling add the107 cornflour, moistened with a little water ; bring to the boil again, and stir for ten minutes ; cool. Slice the oranges, and pour the mixture over them. Beat up the white of the eggs, sweeten, add vanilla essence, and pile over top. STRAWBERRY BLANC MANGE. Ingredients:— H lbs. of Strawberries. 2 ozs. of Cornflour. Sugar. Stew the fruit, with about a pint of water, sweeten, strain off the juice, return it to the saucepan and boil. When boiling stir in the cornflour moistened with a little water, and stir until it thickens. Pour into wetted moulds and set to cool. Serve with the strawberries round the shape. Any fresh fruit can be used for this dish. APPLECATE. Ingredients :— i lb. Dried Apples. '2 Eggs. Butter. Flour. - Cream Tartar. Soak the apples overnight, breakfastcupful of golden cooked. Remove from fire ; Golden Syrup. Sugar. \ pint Milk. Soda, Spice. Steam till soft; add a syrup, steam till quite when cold add the eggs, beaten, two ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter, half pint of milk, six tablespoonfuls of flour, one dessertspoonful of soda, one tablespoonful of cream tartar and a little spice. Mix thoroughly and bake. Serve hot.108 BATTERSEA PUDDING. Ingredients :— 3 Apples. 2 oz. of Suet. Flour. Milk. 2 Eggs. Thoroughly grease a pie dish and line with sliced apples. Make a light batter, using two eggs, and fill dish. Finely shred the suet, and scatter over top of pudding. Bake, being sure that it is well browned. The apples will be found to have risen to the top of the pudding. Good rewarmed. COFFEE CREAM. Ingredients \oz. Gelatine. Custard. Coffee. Soak the gelatine in half a gill of water, and dissolve over fire. Make a pint of custard (custard powder may be used) ; add half a gill of strong coffee. Strain in the dissolved gelatine. Place in mould to set. Half and half of cream and custard may be used, if preferred. BROWN PUDDING. Ingredients \ lb. Flour. ^ lb. Suet. Baking Powder. Golden Syrup. Milk. 2 Eggs. Sugar. Salt. Mix the flour and baking powder with a pinch of salt; add the chopped suet, a teacupful of golden109 syrup, equal quantity of milk, the eggs, beaten, and an ounce of sugar. Steam for two hours. GLOUCESTER PUDDING. Ingredients:— | lb. Raisins. 1 Lemon. 1 Egg- Milk. 6 oz. Flour. 6 oz. Suet. 1 oz. Sugar. Nutmeg. Carbonate of Soda. Put the flour in a basin, add the chopped suet, raisins chopped and stoned, sugar, grated peel of a small lemon, and a little nutmeg. Beat up the egg and mix with the pudding; add the carbonate of soda dissolved in a little milk. Add milk till the pudding is of a proper consistency for cooking. Steam for three hours. ROYAL CREAM. Ingredients :— 1 quart of Milk. 3 Eggs. \ packet of Isinglass. \ lb. Castor Sugar. Vanilla Essence. Soak the isinglass in the milk for a few minutes, then pour into an enamelled saucepan with the yolks of the eggs beaten up with a little of the milk and the sugar. Stir over the fire till a custard is made, but do not let it boil or else it will curdle. Beat the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth ; ajid a tea- spoonful of the vanilla essence ; add gradually to this the boiling custard. Put into a wet mould to set. This should be made the day before use.110 RHUBARB STEW. Ingredients 2 bundles of Forced 3 Apples. Rhubarb. 1 Lemon. Cut the rhubarb into pieces and put into a stewpan with the apples sliced, half a thinly sliced lemon, and sugar to taste. Stew till tender. Also this makes an excellent pie. RHENISH CREAM. Ingredients :— 1 oz. of Gelatine. | lb. Loaf Sugar. 1 Lemon. 1 Seville Orange. 2 Eggs. Glass of Marsala. D.ssolve the gelatine and the sugar in a pint of boil- ing water, add the grated rind of the lemon and of half a Seville orange, and the juice of both. Beat the yolks of the eggs, add them and a glass of Marsala. Stir one way over the fire till nearly boiling. Then strain, pour into a damp mould and cool. GOOSEBERRY SHAPE. Ingredients 1 pint of Gooseberries. £ oz. Gelatine, 3 ozs. of Moist Sugar. Dissolve the gelatine in a gill of water ; trim the gooseberries and put into a stewpan with the sugar and a gill of water, simmer till the gooseberries are tender. Add the gelatine to the gooseberries and pour into a damp mould. Custard is a pleasant addition to this dish.Ill GOLD PUDDING. Ingredients 6 ozs. of Bread Crumbs. \ lb. of Suet. Marmalade. I Lemon. 2 Eggs. Carbonate of Soda. Mix thoroughly together the bread crumbs and suet, add two tablespoonsful of marmalade ; the grated rind and juice of a lemon ; a small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, dissolved in a little milk, and the eggs well beaten. Boil 3jj hours in a mould. #CAKES Cakes are excellent things at all times, when good, and there is no real reason why they should not always be so, if cook is careful. Here are just a few hints :— Baking powder and soda should be put in immediately before baking the cake. It is generally a better plan to put greased paper in your cake tins than to grease the tin itself, the latter plan often leading to burning. Be sure when making your cakes that all your fruit is quite dry, otherwise the cake may be heavy. And—please—always serve hot cakes really hot —not tepid. NORTHERN LIGHTS. Ingredients 5 oz. of Flour. 3 Eggs. \of a pint of Milk. I oz. of Butter. Salt. Mix the flour with the eggs, beaten, milk, a little salt and the butter, melted. Thoroughly stir together and bake. Good for breakfast or tea.113 RYE CAKES. Ingredients :— 3 oz. of Rye Flour. Sour Milk. Salt. oz. Wheat Flour. Soda. Golden Syrup. Mix the rye and wheat flour. Put a teaspoonful of soda with the sour milk, stir till potting, and then add the flours, a good pinch of salt, and a full tablespoonful of golden syrup. Beat stiff, and bake for half an hour in a buttered tin. Smooth the top with a spoon dipped in milk. Serve hot. Mix together the butter and flour, add the oatmeal, spices, nutmeg, and sugar. Dissolve the soda in a little milk, and pour into the mixture. Take four tablespoonful of golden syrup and heat to a thin liquid. Add to the mixture. Make into small cakes, and bake in a greased tin, leaving room for the cakes to spread. Smooth over the top with a spoon dipped in milk ; blanch and halve the almonds, and place on top. HYDE PARKIN. Ingredients :— \ lb. of Flour. £ lb. Butter. \ lb. Oatmeal (medium). 2 oz. Sugar. 1 oz. Mixed Spice. Nutmeg. Golden Syrup. Carbonate of Soda. 2 oz. Almonds. Milk.114 Salt. 1 Egg. BROWN CAKE. Ingredients £ lb. Currants. 1 oz. Peel. Nutmeg. 2 oz. Sugar. Mixed Spice. 1 oz. Butter. Make some short crust and cut in rounds. Mix together the currants, sugar, chopped peel, half tea- spoonful of spice, a little nutmeg, and the butter. Put a tablespoonful on each round of crust, turning edges together. Cut a hole in the top of each cake. Bake for ten minutes on a greased tin in a hot oven. RASPBERRY ASTONISHERS. Ingredients \ lb. of Flour. Tecispoonful of Baking Mix the flour, baking powder and a pinch of salt together ; rub in the butter. Then add the sugar, stir in the beaten eggs, using a little milk if necessary. Make into buns, with a hollow in the top of each to be filled with the jam, covering the jam with the dough. Bake ten minutes. 2 oz. of Sugar. 3 oz. of Butter. Powder. Milk. Salt. 2 Eggs. Raspberry Jam. GRIDDLE CAKES. Ingredients \ pint of Milk. 1 oz. of Butter. 2 oz. of Flour.115 Rub the butter into the flour, adding a pinch of salt. Add the egg, beaten, and the milk, making a stiff dough. Roll and cut into rounds. Bake on gridiron and serve hot. Can be eaten split open and buttered. Mix together the flour, butter, sugar, raisins, a little cinnamon and a half teaspoonful of spice. Sift tea- spoonful of soda into the two tablespoonsful of golden syrup. Add to the mixture, with a teacup of strong coffee. Bake. COFFEE CAKE. Ingredients 3 oz. of Butter. Golden Syrup. 5 oz. of Flour. Soda. Mixed Spire. 2 oz. of Sugar. Coffee. \ lb. of Raisins. Cinnamon. 3 Eggs.Salt. SAVOURIES SAVOURIES are not an essential part of a meal, but are a very delightful addition. Meat and sweets make a good meal, add to these a savoury—before or after the sweet—and you have a very good meal. Good and ^ suPPer»too, a savoury is most welcome. Very Good But ^en they are 80 much trouble, it is always, or frequently said; but, as a matter of fact, there are many very simple, very nice dainties, easily made and economical. Soup, meat, savoury, is also a pleasant variation from the routine meal. And a hint to housewives—a man appreciates a simple tasty savoury far more than a complicated, and often costly, sweet. So, to our savouries. SCRAMBLED HAM AND EGGS. Ingredients Scramble the eggs in a saucepan, with the butter and a little milk. Season to taste. Chop some cold ham finely, mix with the eggs ; serve very hot on buttered toast. Milk. 2 oz. of Butter. Cold Hum. 4 Eggs. BAKED EGGS. Ingredients 6 Eggs. Pepper. Butter.117 Break the eggs into a dish well buttered, being care- ful not to break the yolks. Season with pepper and 6alt, add a small piece of butter on the top of each yolk. Bake till eggs are set. Two fried sausages or two grilled kidneys can be added to this dish. CHEESE SCALLOP. Ingredients:— Bread Crumbs. Milk. 1 oz. Butter. ^ lb. Cheese. 2 Eggs. Take a small cupful of bread crumbs, and soak them in a little milk. Mix with this the eggs, well beaten, and the cheese, grated. Then add the butter in small pieces. Sift over the mixture a layer of bread crumbs, and bake till a nice brown. CHEESE PUDDING. Ingredients 1 pint of Milk. 2 oz. of Butter. 2 Eggs. \ lb. of Bread Crumbs. j lb. of Cheese. Mustard. Salt. Heat the milk, melting the butter in it, mix together the cheese, grated, bread crumbs, and a little mustard and salt. Add the milk and yolks of the eggs, beaten. Beat the whites to a stiff froth and stir in lightly. Bake in a greased pie dish for twenty minutes.118 SCOTCH EGGS. Ingredients :— 5 Eggs. \ lb. of Sausage Meat. Bread Crumbs. Boil four of the eggs till quite hard ; place in cold water to cool. Shell them, surround each egg with sausage meat, dip in beaten egg and roll in bread crumbs. Fry in a deep pan, with plenty of fat. Good hot or cold. SCRAMBLED CHEESE. Ingredients 3 Eggs. 1 oz. of Butter. Milk. Salt. Pepper. 1 oz. Cheese. Put the butter into a stew pan and scramble the eggs with it, add a little milk, pepper and salt, and the cheese, grated, just before taking off the fire. Serve on buttered toast. SCRAMBLED PEAS. As above, only instead of the grated cheese add half pint of peas, prepared as follows. Throw the peas into boiling water, with a little salt. Strain off when cooked, add an ounce of butter and toss the peas lightly in it, with a pinch of castor sugar.119 CHEESETTE. Ingredients 2 oz. of Butter. • ^ lb. of Flour. 3 Eggs. 3 oz. of Cheese. Salt. Pepper. Place the butter, salt and pepper in a stew pan, with a teacupful of water, and boil. Add the flour, and mix to a smooth paste ; stir over fire for five minutes. Remove from fire, add the cheese, grated, and when cool add the beaten eggs one by one. Put into a greased baking dish, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Serve very hot. CHEESE FRITTERS. Ingredients 1 oz. of Butter. 3 oz. of Flour. Salt. Pepper 3 Eggs. Cold Ham. 2 oz. of Cheese. Place the butter, salt and pepper in a stew pan, with half a pint of water, and boil. Directly it boils add the flour, and smooth to a stiff paste. Stir over the fire for five minutes. Remove from fire, cool, add the eggs, beaten, one by one, stirring well between each egg ; then add the grated cheese and one ounce of chopped ham. Take a tablespoonful of this mixture, and throw into hot fat (not boiling) ; gradually increase the heat and turn the fritters frequently, until they become twice their original size. When brown, dry on kitchen paper, and serve very hot.120 TOMATO MACARONI. Ingredients i lb. of Macaroni. 3 oz. of Butter. I tin of Peeled Tomatoes. Pepper. Salt. Throw the macaroni into boiling water, with a little salt, and boil for twenty-five minutes. Drain off the water, toss it over the fire with the butter and a little pepper and salt. Add the tomatoes, and serve very hot. Serve with grated Parmesan, or without. DEVILLED CHICKENS' LIVERS. Ingredients :— Chickens' Livers. Bacon. Bread. Pepper. Salt. Cayenne Pepper. Sprinkle the livers, cut in half, with pepper, salt and cayenne. Cut the bacon into thin slices, putting one round each half liver. Place each on a bit of fried bread and cook in a brisk oven. DEVILLED ALMONDS. Ingredients 2 oz. of Almonds. Salt. Harvey Sauce, or Wor- Olive Oil. cester. Pepper, Chutnee. Cayenne Pepper. Blanch the almonds, cut each in four, and fry in olive oil. Mix with them a dessertspoonful of chutnee, a teaspoonful of the sauce, pepper, salt and cayenne. Serve very hot on small rounds of fried bread.Index Page A Almonds, devilled ... 120 Apple soup 56 „ stuffing 81 Applecate 107 Asparagus salad 94 B Baked eggs 116 Baking 38, 49 „ cakes 112 „ powder ... ... 112 Battersea pudding ... 108 Bean croquettes 86 „ and tomatoes ... 86 „ Boston 87 „ French, salad ... 93 „ broad „ ... 93 Beef au gratin 71 „ tournedos 73 „ olives 75 „ salt, hash 71 Beetroot, Brussels sprouts and, salad ... 94 „ celery and, salad 92 Blancmange, chocolate... 102 „ „ strawberry 107 Boiling 37 „ soft water ... 38 „ puddings ... 102 Boston beans 87 Braising 42 Bread 15 „ brown, sauce ... 96 Broad bean salad ... 93 Brown Bessy 103 „ bread sauce ... 96 „ cake 114 Page Brown pudding 108 Brussels sprouts and beet- root salad 94 Brussels sprouts in butter 88 Butter, melted 95 C Cabbage, baked ... ... 83 „ and milk ... 83 „ soup ... ... 58 Calf’s liver, stewed 70 Calves’ head soup ... 55 Caramel ... 53 Caramel custard... ... 106 Carrot, fried ... 85 pudding... ... 86 Cauliflower, scalloped ... 84 Celery and beetroot salad 92 „ sauce ... 96 Cherry sauce ... 99 Cheese fritters ... ... 119 „ pudding ... ... 117 „ scallop ... ... 117 „ scrambled ... 118 Cheesette ... 119 Chicken mould ... ... 79 „ pie ... 80 „ cake ... 80 „ and rice ... 80 Chickens’ livers, devilled 120 Chocolate blanc mange... 102 Codfish a la creme ... 64 ,, hash ... ... 65 Coffee ... 46 „ cake ... 115 „ cream ... 108 Colcannon ... 87 Cooking, object of ... 33122 Cooking, wet and dry Page ... 36 Cornish pasties ... ... 72 Crab, dressed ... 66 Cucumber and tomato salad ... 92 „ sauce ... 100 Curry, lentil ... 85 „ lobster ... 62 „ soup ... 60 „ steak ... 73 D Devilled almonds ... 120 „ chickens’ livers 120 Digestion, meaning of 18,19 „ process of ... 18 E Eggs, baked ... 116 ,, Scotch ... 118 ,, ham and, scrambled 116 „ to test ... 46 Elizabeth pudding ... 105 Enamelled pots ... 47, 49 F Fat, to clarify ... 40 Fig pudding ... 104 Fish, fresh water ... 61 „ pudding ... ... 62 „ croquettes ... ... 64 „ salad ... 93 „ to test ... 46 „ scalloped ... ... 66 Flesh makers ... ... 14 Food, combinations of ... 35 „ flesh forming ... 14 ,, heat producers ... 15 „ indigestible ... 11 „ need of variety of 43 ,. nutritious... ... 10 „ purpose of ... 9 Food, quantity ... Page ... 10 ,, to be avoided ... 26 Fowl, cold ... 79 1. old ... 81 French bean salad ... 93 Fritters, cheese ... ... 119 Frozen meat ... 37 Fruit, stewing ... ... 46 Frying ... 39 G Gas stoves, how to use ... 48 Gastric juice ... 21 Gloucester pudding ... 109 Gold pudding ... Ill Golden sauce ... 100 Goose, with apple stuff- mg ... 81 Gooseberry sauce ... 98 „ shape ... 110 Griddle cakes ... 114 Grilling 41, 49 H Ham and eggs, scrambled 116 Hare sauce 98 Haricot bean soup ... 59 Heat producing food ... 15 Herrings, with mustard sauce 67 Horse radish sauce ... 97 Hyde parkin 113 I Indigestion, causes of 23, 24 „ chronic and occasional... 25 how to reme- dy... ... 26 „ medicines for 31 „ symptoms of 25123 Page L Ladywell pudding ... 104 Larding 69 Lemon juice, as salad dressing 92 Lentil, curried 85 — Liver dumplings... , , 76 calf’s, stewed • •• 70 Livers, chickens’, devilled 120 Lobster curry . . 62 „ croquettes .. 65 Lyon’s tripe •• 78 M Macaroni and tomatoes .. 89 „ tomato ,, 120 Maitre d'hotel sauce ,, 97 Marrow soup ,, 56 Mastication 13, 19 Mayonnaise .. 92 Meat salad 94 Medicines for indigestion 28 Melon ,, 47 Method, need of... ,, 43 Milk 15, 46 Miroton of boiled beef 78 Mustard ,, 16 „ sauce ... •• 67 N Northern lights ... •• 112 O Old birds 81 Onion, Spanish, salad 93 „ sauce 97 Orange pudding ... 105 „ cream 106 „ sauce 95 Ox-foot soup 57 Page P Pancake,raspberry ... 103 Parsley ... 54 Parsnip soup ... 59 „ fried ... 82 „ fritters ... ... 84 Pea soup ... 54 Pork steaks and apples... <6 Potato ... 16 „ maitre d’hfitel ... 89 „ stuffed ... ... 90 „ salad 93, 94 „ soup ... 55 Poultry, to test ... ... 46 „ to cook... ... 69 „ old ... 81 R Raspberry astonishers ... 114 „ pancake ... 103 „ sauce ... 101 Rhenish cream ... ... 110 Rhubarb stew ... 110 Rice and tomatoes ... 88 soup ... 57 Roasting ... 36 Roux ... 54 Royal cream ... 109 Rye cakes ... 113 S Salad dressings ... 91, 92 „ to make ... ... 91 Saliva ... 19 Salt ... 16 „ beef hash ... ... 71 „ „ miroton ... 78 „ meat, soaking ... 37 „ „ lack of nour- ishment in ... 38 Sauce for brawn and cold meat ... 101124 Sauces, use of 95 Scalloped cauliflower ... 84 „ cheese ... 117 ». fish 66 », meat ... ... 77 Scotch eggs 118 Scrambled cheese ... 118 „ peas 118 n ham and eggs 116 Sea pie 74 „ sauce 99 Serving-up 68 Sirloin, use of 68 Spanish onion salad ... 93 Special pie 105 Steak, curried 73 „ to make tender ... 47 Steaming 41 Stewing 42 Stock making 47 „ use of 53 Stomach, the 20 Strawberry blanc mange 107 Stuffing, apple 81 T Tests for freshness: Tinned goods ... 47 Tinned goods, to test ... 47 Tomato and beans ... 86 Tomato, cucumber andPAGE salad ... 92 ,. au gratin 87 „ hash • • • 72 „ macaroni • • • 120 „ and macaroni • • • 89 „ pie • • • 84 „ pudding • « • &3 „ and rice... • • • 88 „ salad • • • 93 „ sauce ... 100 „ soup • • • 58 Tongue toast 71 Tournedos 73 Tripe, Lyon’s 78 Turbot a la cr$me ... 63 V Variety in food, need of 43 Veal cake 69 „ grenadines ... 75 „ loaf 70 „ olive pie 77 „ rolled 74 Vegetables, necessity for 12, 16. 82 „ to cook 82 Vinegar ... 16 W “Warnings” 26 Water, soft and hard 15. 38 White foam sauce 98\ lEeebs: Alf Cooke, “Her late Majesty’s Colour Printer,” Crown Point Works.V Registered. 9K I.1CT0PKPTDTR CODt&lZlE the flVj KeUTB agenda ot digestion, corv tuned In the same proportion A\ ihav tilst In the hum|| Eiarafufh ftna wiii^ueat food m a mfirtc: !dentic&i^(r%had obta^Jed Rndei thetadoeOT&Btf the ne mat. . ^ffaar IactoPKPTUC wHd Superior to ap]l»ther iLdigaaLoc. fj yj oejte fired dUeatef. I Also, partfctArf!! 1 AntitU, Oepera&lJdbl Dlan^a,Cf>nsur>aUo Yom)fc¥fd*n4 Naua. /V'und far ^ediea in and kin* /JOHN M.-RICHARDS, j£6, Holborn Viaduct (L*i*e Ot RueuQ Street), ^LONDON, E.C. LACTOPEPTINE. 1. oz. Unwrapped. Proved itself for 30 years a Reliable Remedy in Dyspepsia, Acute indigestion, heartburn. Impaired Nutrition, General Debility, Loss of Appetite, Constipation, Morning Sickness, Diarrhoea, and other Diseases of the Digestive Function. “ One of the certainties in medicine, and in this respect ranks with quinine." Dose: 10-15 grains. “ We can confidently recommend it.” —British Medical Journal.LACT0PEPTIN1 for Indigestion and Dyspepsia. LACTOPEPTINE is always uniform in its action and never disappoints. No one has ever been able to imitate its digestive value. If positive results are not obtained when Lactopeptine is taken, it is because some substitution has been made. We can confidently make this assertion, knowing the scrupulous uniformity in digestive value of every ounce of Lactopeptine. THE WORDS OF OTHERS. Where we have had an opportunity of presenting it, its employ ment has been decidedly satisfactory. “ The Medical Times and Gazette," London. Such a formula is a desideratum, considering that the preparations of Pepsin now in use have disappointed the expectations of many practitioners. “ The Medical Press and Circular," London. We have no hesitation in affirming that Lactopeptine has proved itself to be the most important addition ever made to our Pharma- copoeia. “ The Physician and Pharmacist." “ One of the certain- ties in Medicine, and in this respect Lacto- peptine ranks with quinine.”RECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark: v r,w -J