THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. J 98 fish to height, with two thirds of white wine and one third of red. Cover the stewpan, set it on a brisk fire, so as to boil the fish, reducing the liquid to half. On the other hand, take two handfuls of plucked small onions, put them into a skillet with butter, salt, and a pinch of sugar; color them, cook them, and glaze them with little broth. — As soon as the fish is done, remove the pieces of carp, range them in another stewpan with the glazed onions; pass the stock through a sieve, put it back into the stewpan, let it boil, thicken it with a piece of kneaded-butter, divided into little bits. Boil the sauce for a few minutes, add two tablespoonfuls of rum, pour it on the fish, which let simmer in this sauce for seven or eight minutes. Now dish the pieces of fish : the bottom of the dish must be masked with fried bread-Aroutons’; surround the carp with the fried onions; finish the sauce, introducing into it a piece of butter, pour it on the fish. — In order to prepare a very rich ‘matelote’, the fish must be of mixed species, such as : pike, eel, and carp. For a garnish, maybe used mushrooms, soft-roes, and even stoned and blanched olives. 463. Pike, with horseradish-sauce. Choose a fine river-pike, scale it, pouring some hot water over, or else passing the thin blade of a knife between the scales and uppermost skin: a very easy proceeding. Draw it, making an aperture in the belly, cut the fins, notch the meat on both sides ; sprinkle the fish largely with salt, let it macerate thus for half an hour ; wash it then, truss its head, set it on the drainer of a fish-kettle ; add to it some salt, minced vege- tables, a large bunch of parsley, a glassful of vinegar, and the water requisite to cover it; set the vessel on the fire, let the liquid boil; imme- diately remove it back to the side of the fire, always keeping it at the same degree of heat, but without allowing it to boil; if the fish weighs four to six pounds, give it one hour's cooking; if much larger, it requires half an hour more. The pike being done, remove it on the drainer of the fish-kettle, let it drain, slip it then on a long dish ; surround it with green parsley, and potatoes boiled in water ; serve separately a hot liorseradish-sauce (see art. 147).