194 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. vessel. — Let a glassful of vinegar boil, with bay-leaves, peppercorns, cloves, and a little salt; two minutes after, add to it half its volume of good oil; now give this liquid a few bubblings, and pour the sauce over the fish. Twenty-foui’ hours after, dish the mackerel, together with their sauce, and some lemon-slices. 453. Mackerel with green-pease. Chop one onion, let it fry in a stewpan with butter or oil, but yet without allowing it to take color; add the cleansed trunks, of mackerel, that is, without the heads or tails ; let the trunks fry for a few minutes, season them ; add to them a pint of green-pease, and a bunch of pars- ley ; toss the fish seven or eight minutes; sprinkle over a pinch of flour, moisten it just to cover with hot water; let the liquid boil; cover the stewpan, then remove it back to the side; boil the stew for a quarter of an hour, season it to high relish. At the last moment, thicken the sauce with a liaison of two yolks of eggs. 454. Mackerel-fillets, at the minute. Take the fillets of three very fresh mackerel, trim them without removing the skin, remove all the thin parts, and salt them. Heat flve ounces of butter in a flat stewpan ; range the fillets then in the stewpan; as soon as they are nicely set, push the stewpan into the oven; when the fillets are done, remove them with the aid of a fish-slice, and dish them, mix in the cooking-stock a glassful of white wine, allow the liquid to boil, thicken it with a little kneaded-butter; add to the sauce the juice of two lemons, and a pinch of chopped parsley : pour it on the fillets. 455. Mackerel-fillets, with anchovy-cream. Take the fillets of three mackerel, season them well, range them on a gratin-dish, and baste them with a little melted butter. Pour on the bottom of the gratin-dish two or three tablespoonfuls of white wine, and push the dish into a slack oven ; twelve or fourteen minutes after, the fillets ought to be done. Drain off the butter of the gratin-dish; mask the fish with a little bechamel-sauce, reduced with cream, and finished with a piece of anchovy-butter.