WATER-, PEACH-, APPLE-, STRAWBERRY-, APRICOT-, ICES. 493 tablespoonfuls of powder-sugar; boil them on a quick tire, keeping the stewpan covered ; then pass them through a fine sieve ; dilute this puree with two glassfuls of syrup at thirty degress ; add the juice of three oranges, that of three lemons, and a little zest; let it freeze according to the common method. 1068. Strawberry-ice. Pass, through a sieve, fresh wood-strawberries. Pour into a glazed . earthen-ware basin two glassfuls of this puree, mix into it two glassfuls of powder - sugar ; add to it half the zest, the juice of two oranges, and three lemons, then half a glassful of water. A quarter of an hour after, pass the preparation through a fine sieve, try a part of it in the ice-box, in order to judge, if the preparation is at the degree requisite ; rectify it, if necessary, then let it freeze according to the common method. On the other hand, choose a few dozen fine strawberries, put them into a mould, sprinkle over them fine sugar, keep them on salted ice; leave them packed, until they have got firm. At serving-time, take the ice up with a spoon, dish it up in a rock- shape, on a cold dish, covered with a napkin ; sprinkle over the glazed strawberries. 1069. Apricot-ice. Proportions: a pint and a half of syrup of thirty degrees (see draw. 361,362), the same of fruit-puree, the juice of two oranges, two tablespoonfuls of sugar flavored with vanilla, two tablespoonfuls of milk of bitter almonds, and zest. Choose the fruit very ripe, fresh and of a fine flavor, pass it through a sieve; mix the puree up with the syrup, the almond-milk, and the orange- juice ; pass the preparation through a tammy, give it twenty-two degrees at the syrup-scale, and let it freeze. —As the syrup-scale gives but imper- fectly the degrees of the sugar in purees, it is convenient in this case to put a spoonful of the preparation into the ice-box, in order to be better able to judge of its consistence ; it can then be rectified with syrup, of more or less consistence, according as the ice proves thick or thin.