THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-LOOK. 248 563. Mutton-mince, ‘a la menagere’. Cut into small slices a piece of roast or braised leg, remove its hard parts, and place the slices in a flat stewpan. — Pour a quarter of a glass of vinegar into a small stewpan, add to it some peppercorns, cloves, and a bunch of parsley garnished with aromatics; let it boil, reduce it one third; add to it a gill of good gravy; after the lapse of two minutes, thicken the liquid with a piece of kneaded-butter; pass the sauce through a sieve over the slices of mutton, warm them quite gently; if the meat has been roasted, it must be carefully observed, not to boil the sauce, lest the meat should get tough ; then dish the stew. 564. Mutton-stew, with vegetables. In order to prepare good mutton-stew, there is requisite good fresh meat taken off both ends of the breast, that is, from the neck, and the side of the loin ; but a good stew can also be obtained with a brisket, and a shoulder, if the thin parts, as well as the most bony ones, have been removed. Mutton-stew is not a highly distinguished dish, but as a luncheon- dish appreciated by every body; it is of no difficult preparation, yet requires the most attentive carefulness, without which all kitchen-opera- tions are far from complete. Cut, in middling-sized squares, two pounds of meat, put it into a stewpan, with either hog’s lard or chopped bacon, rather than with buttei, which is more apt to burn ; add to it a pinch of sugar ; set the stewpan on a good fire, stir the meat continually with a spoon ; when it is well fried, season it, and sprinkle over two ounces of flour ; let the flour try tor a few minutes, but stirring the meat, without leaving off, then drain its fat from the stewpan, and moisten the meat, a little more than to height, but by degrees only, with warm broth, or simply with water, diluting care- fully the fried flour. Stir the stew till the sauce starts to ebullition; it must be slightly thickened. If the meat has been moistened with water, a little salt must be added ; a garnished bunch is requisite in every case. Cover the stewpan, remove it back on a more moderate flic, boil the stcv foi an hour and a half; then mix into it a vegetable-garnish, composed of