THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 182 Drain the soles, dish them, surround them with the oysters and mush- rooms, mask them with the sauce, sprinkle over a little bread-crumb, then slightly color the surfaces, with a salamander, or else with a shovel; either must be red hot; garnish both the ends ot the dish with a few fried bread -‘croutons’. 424. Salted codfish, French way. If the codfish, that is to be used, is dry, it must be left to soiten m cold water for forty-eight hours, changing the water several times ; if it is salt fish in tubs, a few hours of softening will do. — Take two pounds of dissalted codfish, scrape it, divide it in four large squares ; place these squares in a stewpan with cold water, set the stewpan on a brisk, fire; at the first bubbling of the liquid, remove it back to the side; twelve or fifteen minutes after, drain the pieces of codfish, carefully remove their bones, breaking the pieces. . _ On the other hand, chop one white onion, put it into a flat stewpan with butter, let it fry on a slow fire without giving it color ; then add to it the pieces of codfish; immediately take the stewpan off the fire, toss the stewpan, turning it well in order to mix the codfish well with the butter ; when all the butter is absorbed, add some more, but taking only small quantities at a time, until six ounces have been put in, minu doino- so without ceasing to turn the stewpan round; the preparation theifshould be well thickened and creamy; season it with a pinch ot nutmeg finish it with the juice of a lemon, and a little chopped pars ey. Dish the codfish, surround it with bread-‘crotons’, fried with butter. 425. Lobster-curry, Indian way. Cut in pieces the tails of two middling-sized raw lobsters, and the thick part of the large claws. Shred into ‘julienne’ a Portugal onion; fry it in a stewpan, with butter; and when of a nice color, add the pieces and claws of lobster, which fry for a few minutes, season, and sprinkle over two tablespoonfuls of curry - powder; two seconds after, moisten, to half their height, with broth. Cover the stewpan, and reduce the liquid to half. Then add a few tablespoonfuls of cocoanut,