TIIE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 122 herbs; such as : leaves of marjoram, of thyme, of basil, of savory, and parsley. Cover the stewpan. Cut the turtle’s meat into small pieces of equal size, place them in a small stewpan, moisten them with a little of the soup, keep them warm. Ten minutes after, skim the fat off the soup, add to the latter half a glassful of madeira, and a pinch of cayenne - pepper; give it but one bubbling, pour it into the tureen, passing it through a sieve; add the pieces of turtle, add also the juice of a lemon. — To this soup may be always added small veal or poultry quenelles, as well as minced trulfles. In these conditions of course the soup is more luxurious. Here is the method of preparing mock-turtle : cut off half a calf’s head of middling size, blanch, and singe it; divide it in pieces, boil it in plain white stock. When at the degree requisite, let it nearly cool, in its cooking-stock, then drain it; now remove from each piece of the call s head the interior parts, commonly being very fat; divide the cutaneous parts in long squares, which place in a stewpan, pour on a little madeira, and keep them warm. On the other hand, with a good fowl, a little ham, vegetables, and aromatics, prepare a stock such as described above, mix into it a part ot the cooking-stock of the calf’s head. When well skimmed, tree from fat, and passed through a sieve, add to it the pieces of calf’s head, and the madeira. Infuse the aromatics separately in a small stewpan. At serv- ing-time, mix in the soup a pinch of cayenne-pepper. 298. Mackerel - soup. — Choose two or three small very fresh mackerel; cleanse them, remove their heads, divide the fish in pieces, and place them in a stewpan with butter; salt them, let them fry till they have taken a good color; then add some minced vegetables, and a bunch of parsley ; moisten them with a quart of boiling water, boil them on a very slow fire for three quarters of an hour. Skim the fat off the liquid, then pass the fish, as well as the vegetables, through a sieve; dilute the puree with the liquid, add to it a quart of fish-broth ; stir the soup on the fire till ebullition, mix into it a piece of butter, a pinch of cayenne- pepper, and some tablespoonfuls of rice, simply boiled in water ; pour it into the tureen.