( 18 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 25. How to take up fillets of poultry, or of game. - Split the skin of the breast of a chicken, remove it back so as to lay bare the fillets, which disengage on both sides with the aid of a small knife, letting the minion-fillet adhere to it, as well as the pinion. If there is but one entree of fillets of chickens to be served, it is convenient to remove the bone of the pinion; as in dishing, it occasions inconvenience. Take the fillets up, disengage the minion - fillets; place the larger fillets on the table one by one, resting them on the smoothest side, where the flesh is covered by the epidermis ; fix them with the palm of the left hand, and slip the blade of the knife between the meat and epidermis, so as to remove the latter at one pull; immediately beat the fillets with the handle of a large knife, remembering to moisten it, t them, rounding them on one side, and contriving a point on the othen Remove the inner sinew and the thin skin of the m.nion-fiflet, beat fl slightly Oil the inner surface: this addition enlaiges e . minion-fillets may be utilised, as fillets themselves ; it will suffice h ^ them slightly, to moisten them, putting them together two and two, to s;ive them the same shape as to the larger fillets. g 26 How to blanch and boil cocks’- combs. - Cocks - combs supply a very fine garnish, but only if they are cooked of a nice white. The cocks’-combs must first of all be blanched, by plunging them, a small quantity at a time, into hot water, by the ai o a s As soon Is taken out of the water, they are drained on a cloth a rubbed so that the epidermis of the surface is remove enney from the. cock’s-comb. Then the extremities of the points are cu , facilitate the extraction of the bloody parts. When the cocks-combs a e trimmed they are placed in a large kitchen-basin with water scarce tepid, L they are left to soak for a whole day, carefully changing the blood- -“,*x buttered sheet ot paper; the ^ _five minutes, accordin boiled on a very slow fne, ioi twen y j CJQ