83 STOCK-POT SOUP. 212. Pectoral-broth. — Singe and draw a good fowl, divide it in quarters, which put into an earthen stock-pot; add to them the body-bones, pinions, paws, and crop, all well cleansed. Cover the meat with three or four.quarts of water, add a small quantity of marsh-mallow or althea- root, and two handfuls of best pearl-barley, washed ; set the vessel on the lire, skim the liquid, boil the meat quite gently for three hours ; then pass the broth through a cloth. This broth is especially served at spring-time, being both stomachic and refreshing. 213. Stock-pot and broth. — A stock-pot (called in France the pot- au-feu) is so well known through ail parts, that it must be held super- fluous to give a minute description thereof; I shall content myself there- fore with practical considerations calculated to simplify the operation, and at the same time, to contribute to ensuring its perfection. The bioth of the stock-pot must boil either in an earthen, or cast- iron vessel; the beef employed must be fresh, of good quality : meat long- kept or of inferior qualities, giving bad results. When the broth of a stock-pot is prepared with the view to serving the beef after the soup, it is convenient to employ a slice of rump of beef (culotte), preferably to an> other part ot the ox, this piece being the most delicate, when boiled. In ordinary circumstances, beef alone, associated with good vege- tables, is sufficient for the preparation of a stock-pot; but to obtain a moie delicate, and succulent broth, there should be added to the beef a good fowl, or a small knuckle of veal: veal and fowl may also be ad- vantageously combined. The choice of the vegetables employed, is not without influence on the goodness ot the stock-pot; carrots and leek are not to be dispensed with; when the turnips, celery, and parsnips, are not of too strong an aroma, they may be admitted, yet not to excess, especially the celery. An onion, nicely colored, or so to say baked in the oven or in hot ashes, is not only necessary in order to give the broth a fine color, but it helps also to improve it. Cabbages must previously be blanched. The proportions, of meat and water, are, five pints to each pound of meat. \ et is it a point to be remembered, that not every water is good;