TIIE HOUSEHOLD COOKEIIY- BOOK. 246 Choose a line neck of mutton ; cut straight the side of the rib-bones, also cut off the chine-bone. Now take the neck from the side of the loin, and cut the cutlets slantwise; in this manner the meat of the fillet is larger, and more easily to be flattened. In order to get fine, large, and thick cutlets, there must not be cut more than four or five from one neck of mutton. When the cutlets are cut, slightly disengage the fillet from the chine- bone, in order to be able to shorten the nether part of the rib-bone; remove the sinewy skin of the fillet, then disengage the meat all round on the upper end of the bone; so as to remove them by sciaping this. Beat sufficiently with the cutlet-bat (see drawing 180) the meat of the fillets, as well as the fat of the cutlet, in order to give the latter the breadth requisite. Round the fillet with the knife, cut the fat in a pointed way, so as to give the cutlet a fine shape, like that of the draw- ing 182. Season the cutlets, roll them in melted butter or in oil, range them on a gridiron, let them broil at a good fire, either in their natural con- dition, or being breadcrumbed ; turn them, after the lapse of six minutes; five or six minutes after, dish them, remove them, and serve them either with a garnish of fried potatoes, or potato-puree, or else, with a garnish of french-beans, green-pease, or any other vegetable. On page 103, I have represented the drawing of a gridiron (grillade), that is, a machine for broiling, very much in use in I ranee, even in small kitchens; the broiling here is operated by the aid of coals or charcoal, if the machinery is established well, all the smoke escapes by the pipe, and the meat by this very fact leaves nothing to lie desired, in respect to its perfection. The drawing (183), given in this article (p. 245), represents the broiling of meat effected by the aid of mineral coal burning m the kitchen-stove; this method is highly ingenious, and if due care is taken, the meat must be good ; yet under such conditions, it is not always easy to avoid the smoke’s spreading in the kitchen, and from thence into the apartments, a fact not free from inconvenience.