THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. On the other hand, mince two onions, let them fry with butter in a stewpan ; when they have taken a tine color, season them, moisten them with a little gravy, and finish doing them on a very slow tire ; then add the liver of the young duck, and two seasoned poultry-livers; fry them with the onions, then pound them together, and pass them through a sieve. Dilute the puree with the sauce ; dish up the duck, mask it with the sauce, surround it with crusts of fried bread. 720. Hot pigeon-pie. Singe and draw three good young pigeons, remove their feet, necks, and pinions ; divide their bodies, cutting each of them into three pieces; put these pieces into a stewpan with the pinions, and some chopped bacon, let them fry on a good tire; add to them a pinch of pepper, a little salt, six ounces of raw ham, a bunch of parsley garnished with aromatics ; as soon as they have taken a nice color, add to them a table- spoonful of chopped onion, fifteen plucked raw mushrooms, cut in two; let the stew toss for some minutes, moisten it with a quarter of a glassful of white wine ; when the liquid has reduced, remove the stew off the fire, and allow it to cool. Prepare the pie, proceeding exactly, as said for hot lark-pie. When the pie is taken out of the oven, dish it up; open it on the top by cerning the cover ; moisten the meat with a little thickened and good gravy. 721. Stuffed-pigeons’ fillets. Take up the fillets of five pigeons, remove their minion-fillets, and trim them of the epidermis ; beat them with the wet handle of a knife, split them on the side, so as to open them without separating the parts ; season them witli salt and spices. Chop the trimmings, as well as the minion-fillets, with their same volume of fresh bacon; mix into this mince the cooked and chopped pigeon-livers, a small piece of lean cooked ham, and three or four table- spoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs, composed of onion and shalots, mush- rooms and truffles ; thicken the preparation with a little melted glaze; as soon as it has cooled, stuff with it the pigeon-fillets ; press them slightly, immediately dip them into beaten eggs, mixed with a little melted buttei;