128 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. them in a good oven, for twenty-live minutes ; when they are taken out ot the oven, dish them. — The first drawing (83) represents the plain paste-cutter, the second (84) the garnished flat, the third (85) the covered patty, the fourth (86) the patty when ready done. 309. Puff-paste patties, with fish-force-meat. Put into a kitchen-basin half a pound of fish-quenelle force-meat (see art. 122) rather firm ; introduce into it two teaspoonfuls of anchovy- extract, and a pinch of chopped parsley. With this force-meat, garnish fifteen small flats of puff-paste, and finish the patties, proceeding as said in art. 308 ; egg, and bake them in a warm oven for twenty minutes. When they are taken out of the oven, disengage them from the baking- sheet, and range them in a pyramid, on a dish, or a folded napkin. 310. Small thrush-patties. Bone ten small thrushes, season them interiorly, mask them with a thin layer of good force-meat (see art. 120) ; place on the centre of each of the thrushes a piece of raw truffle, then roll them to a round shape, surround them with a buttered strip of paper; range them side by side in a saute-pan, bake them in the oven with a little white wine and stock, but short of moisture; let them nearly cool in their cooking-stock ; then unwrap them, trim them, glaze them with the pastebrush, and warm them at the entrance of the oven. With some game quenelle force-meat fill ten patty-moulds, lined with paste ; range them on a baking-sheet, cover them with a buttered round of paper, bake them in a slack oven for twenty-five minutes ; when they are taken out of the oven, slightly hollow them out; then set upon each of them a thrush ‘galantine’, which mask with a little reduced good sauce, and dish up. 311. Patties and fried brains. Patties are prepared with a poultry force-meat, into which is mixed a ‘salpicon’ of raw truffles. Patties must be baked a short while previous to being served: as far as possible, they ought not to cool, when once baked.