423 SWEET-ENTREMETS. - PUDDINGS. it a little zest, keep it covered, for ten minutes more, on hot ashes ; pour it out then into another stewpan, introduce into it three whole eggs, and a piece of butter; remove the zest, pour the rice into a plain fiimbale’- mould, previously buttered, and bread crumbed ; push it into the oven. When the pudding has got firm, and is of a fine color, remove it, disengage it from the mould with the aid of the blade oi a knife, cern it on the top, and by the aid of a spoon remove a third of the preparation• fill the hollow immediately with a mince of apples, prepared as for chariot, sweetened and thickened with two spoonfuls of apricot-marma- lade ; then turn the pudding out on a dish, sprinkle over some fine sugar. 917. Hot cabinet-pudding with raisins. Break into a kitchen-basin four whole eggs ; add to them six yolks of eggs, four ounces of powder-sugar, and a little zest; bray the eggs, dilute them with two glassfuls and a half of raw milk ; ten minutes after, pass the preparation through a sieve. Butter a chariot - mould ; decorate the bottom with fragments of angelica, or any other preserved fruit. Mask the decoration of the bot- tom with a layer of finger-biscuit; sprinkle over this layer a small handful of currants and raisins, mixed with some preserved peels cut in small dice. Mask the fruit with another layer of biscuit, and continue thus until the mould be full. Then gradually pour the cream-preparation into this mould ; which place in a stewpan on a trevet; pour warm water into the stewpan, till half the height of the mould ; let this water boil, remove the stewpan on a very slow fire, or else keep it at the entrance of the oven. — When the preparation has got firm, remove it back ; a quarter of an hour after, turn the pudding out on a dish, mask it with lemon- cream, or wine-sabayon. 918. Light pudding with sabayon. Put into a stewpan six ounces of flour, three ounces of powder- sugar, three ounces of butter, and a grain of salt; mix the butter, flour, and sugar well, by the aid of a spoon, dilute them with three gills of tepid milk. Set the stewpan on the fire, then stir the preparation till it