180 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. clone, drain them, dish them in a circle, into the centre ot which poui a gerkin-sauce. 's 320. Cold salmon with aspic-jelly. Take two or three singed calf s-feet, split in two lengthwise ; remove their bone, boil them in water on a slow fire; pass their cooking-stock through a sieve, carefully skim off its fat, let it settle. lake thiee line slices of salmon rather thickish, boil them in ‘court-bouillon’ with wine, proceeding as indicated, art. 412; let them cool in their own cooking-stock. Mix in a stewpan half the cooking-stock of the salmon, with its volume of the liquor of the calf’s feet; add to this liquid a glassful of good vinegar, some minced vegetables, some sprigs ot parsley, some aromatics, a few peppercorns and cloves; add three whole eggs beaten well, and diluted with a fourth of a glassful of cold water; stir the liquid on the lire till ebullition, then remove the stewpan back to the side ot the lire, so that the liquid only simmers partially; as soon as the jelly is clear, pass it through a cloth ; when it is about cold, pour it on the slices of salmon, previously ranged in a deep vessel in wedgewood, or china; keep this vessel in a cool place; twenty-four hours after, serve the fish cold, surrounded with its own aspic-jelly. 421. Boiled sole, with melted butter. Remove the black skin from two large soles, scrape their opposite side- split them underneath their gills ; carefully wash them, cut them transversally, each of them in two or three pieces according to then- size • place them in a kitchen-basin, with a handful of salt and a little cold water, let them macerate for half an hour. - Boil in a stewpan two quarts of water, with the salt requisite, a bunch of parsley, and a drop of vinegar Ten or twelve minutes previous to serving, wash the soles, plunge “them into the liquid; at the first bubbling, cover the stewpan, take it off the fire ; seven or eight minutes after, dram the soles with the skimmer, dish them, bringing them back into shape ; surround them with parsley and boiled potatoes. Serve separately a sauceboatful ot melted- butter {see art. 142).