186 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. split in two lengthwise, pick the tails, trim their flesh quickly, and lange them in a circle on a hot dish, placing the claws in the centre. Meanwhile, mix in a small stewpan about a gill of melted meat-glaze, with half its quantity of madeira; boil the liquid, and then remove it Rack. — Work up together, in a kitchen-basin, three tablespoonfuls ot bread-crumb with six ounces of butter, a little cayenne-pepper, and a pinch of chopped parsley. Divide this paste afterwards into small parts, thus adding it to the liquid, without ceasing to stir, so as to obtain a good thick sauce, but without letting it boil; finish the sauce, by intro- ducing into it the creamy substance of the body-shell, pounded and passed through a sieve, and two tablespoonfuls ot good vinegar. The sauce should be rather stiff, than loose; pour it over the lobster, which serve immediately. 433. Fried small fish. Gudgeons, anchovies, sardines, sparlings, small wlutings, and trout: those are the small fish, that may be fried according to the same method, that is, simply flouring them, taking but few at a tune, and plunging them into hot trying-fat. Yet sardines, sparlings, whitings, and trout, may be breadcrumbed with eggs, previous to being tried, sometimes they are simply dipped into beaten eggs, after being floured. — net small fish are generally dished on a folded napkin, and served eitier with fried parsley, or with lemons cut into quarters: they are rarely accompanied by any sauce. 434. Gratinated red-gurnet. The red-gurnet (rouget) is an exception to its species, it is sometimes cooked without being scaled; it is never drawn; its gills only being removed, it is sealed, and bearded. . , ,. Cleanse four or five very fresh fine red-gurnets, eaving the live. inside; slightly salt them, place them, one beside the other, on the bottom of a previously buttered ‘gratin'-dish, sprinkle over a few hand- fuls of chopped fresh mushrooms ; moisten them with a glassful of white- wine; start the liquid to ebullition, and push them into a slack oven,