258 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. the meat, on to a colander, placed over a kitchen-basin, so as to gather, and preserve the moisture. Refresh the squares of veal, trim them of the superfluous bones. Chop an onion, let it fry with butter, without allowing it to take color ; add to it the squares of veal, fry them on a good fire for a few minutes ; slightly season them, sprinkle over a small handful of flour, moisten them (notice doing so off the fire and only gradually) with the cooking-stock preserved for that purpose; place the stewpan back on the fire, stir the liquid until starting to ebullition : the sauce then must be thickened; give it a few bubblings, add a bunch of parsley, a bay-leaf, some mushroom-trimmings, peppercorns, and cloves; remove the stewpan back to the side of the fire, cover it, and keep it thus, until the meat be done. Then remove the pieces of meat with a fork, range them in a smaller stewpan; skim the fat off* the sauce, pass the latter through a sieve, let it reduce for a few minutes on a brisk fire ; when it is done, thicken it with three diluted yolks of eggs, finish it with a little nutmeg, pour it on the meat, straining it. Add a pinch of chopped pars- '■ ley, the juice of a lemon, and dish it. 582. Loin of veal, with cream. Entirely bone a loin of veal, keeping the flap short; trim it, truss it, then let it roast with butter, in the oven, but notice basting it repeatedly. As soon as the loin is done, drain it, trim it square, cut it in thin slices; then bring it back into shape, on a remove-dish, alternating each slice with a spoonful of minced truffles. The loin being brought back into form, mask it with a layer of very consistent reduced bechamel-sauce, mixed with a well-whipped white of egg, so as to render it still mou consistent; sprinkle over this layer a little grated parmesan, pour over a little melted butter, then glaze it by aid of the salamader. Surround the meat, on both sides, with ‘croquettes’, and serve separately a boatful of half-glaze. 583. Glazed cushion of veal, with chicory. Trim a cushion of veal without removing the udder; stud the meat on the sides, and above, with alternate fillets of raw ham and bacon.