TIIE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 442 paste, then cover the apples, and the rim of the dish, with a thin flat of the same paste, which press close to the base of the dome, and to the edges of the dish, then cut it on the edge of the rim, and notch it at little distances with the aid of the point of a small knife. Moisten the paste of the dome with a little water, sprinkle over white powder-sugar. Set the dish on a small baking-sheet, bake the tart in a slack oven for fifty minutes, but covering it carefully, twelve minutes after its being put into the oven. 958. Plum-tart. Skin four or five dozen raw black plums, kept whole; stone them, and range them by layers on a tart-dish, sprinkling over each layer some raw sugar ; mask the rims of the dish with ;'a strip of fine short- paste ; cover the fruit with a flat of this same paste; channel the edges of the paste (see drawing 175) ; slightly moisten the surface of the paste, sift over fine sugar ; bake the tart in a slack oven for forty-five minutes. — These tarts may be served cold. 959. Apricot-tart. Divide, each in two parts, a score of fine apricots, not too ripe; peel them, and divide each half in two or three quarters. Crack a part of the kernels, removing the skin. — Range the apricots in a small pie- dish, by layers alternately with powdered sugar: let the fruit rise into a dome; pour at the bottom of the dish two dessertspoonfuls of water; mask the edges of the dish, with a strip of puff-paste, or fine short-paste, prepared with yolks of eggs, and a little sugar. Cover the fruit with a fiat of the same paste, fasten it round the edges, decorate the tart (see draw. 175), then moisten the paste on the top with a little white of egg, sprinkle it with line powder - sugar; bake the tart in a slack oven for forty minutes. 960. Fruit-tart. With six ounces of short-paste make a round flat, which spread on a round baking-sheet; cut the edges of this flat, moisten it all round, and on these wet parts apply a strip of puff-paste, an inch or an inch and a