124 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY- BOOK. tained in the cavity of the napkin ; surround the base of the latter with water-cresses, serve separately good and fresh butter. 300. Sandwiches of various sorts. Sandwiches are of English origin, but now-a-days are known nearly every where. — Sandwiches are prepared with slices of stale household- bread, cut in the shape of long squares ; these slices are masked with a layer of plain butter, or with butter mixed with mustard or anchovy- extract : this being a matter of taste ; this layer is masked with a slice of either boiled pickled-tongue or of ham, poultry or veal, cut of the same dimensions as the bread ; sometimes the tongue or ham is mingled with veal or poultry ; in either case, the meat is covered again with another slice of buttered bread, cut in the same dimensions as the first. The sandwiches are then cut into regular form on the sides and extremities. 301. Crusts with Cheshire-cheese. Cut some slices of household-bread not too thin; fry them with butter on one side only, and in a flat stewpan, or in a baking-sheet; drain them, and mask their fried side with a thick layer of grated Cheshire- cheese ; season the cheese with a pinch of simple pepper or cayenne- pepper. Put the crusts back into the baking-sheet with butter, push them into a hot oven. When the cheese is creamy, the top of the crusts must be dry ; now disengage them, and serve. 302. Snipe crusts. From off a household loaf, cut seven or eight slices of bread of the shape of a long square, and the thickness of a third of an inch; allow them to take a little color on one side in a saute-pan, imme- diately drain them. — Put the raw intestines of two snipes into a stewpan, with two tablespoonfuls of bacon cut in small dice, a piece of butter, some aromatics, and five or six good poultry-livers, or some thin slices of calf’s liver; let them fry on a good fire, turning them till the livers be well done; let them cool, pound them, pass them through a sieve. Introduce into the puree two tablespoonfuls of good brown-sauce