THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 104 257. Pig’s-ear SOU]). — Singe two or three ears of pork, let them boil in plenty of water for twenty minutes. — Meanwhile, mince the carrots, onions, leeks, and celery-roots ; fry these vegetables with butter, moisten them with halt a bottle of white wine, and a quart ot broth. Let ^the liquid boil, add to it a bunch of aromatics, and the pigs’ ears; keep up the ebullition, on the side ot the fire, till the ears are done; then pass the cooking-stock through a sieve, and skim off the fat. — With live ounces of butter, and three tablespoonfuls of flour, prepare a roux (see art. 135), but without allowing it to take color ; dilute it then with the cooking-stock of the ears of pork ; stir the liquid on the tire, until starting to ebullition ; immediately remove the stewpan to the side of the tire. Add to the soup a piece of raw ham, boil it quite gently for three quar- ters of an hour ; at last, skim off the fat, pass it through a sieve ; mix in half a glassful of madeira, a pinch of cayenne-pepper, and the ears of pork, divided in small parts : give it a tew minutes’ ebullition more, and serve : this soup is very good. 258. Turkey-SOU]), witli curry. — Take the remains of a turkey that has been already served, disengage the meat, preserving it as whole as possible; cut that of the breast into-scollops, and keep them by. Pound the remainder of the meat with some spoonfuls of rice boiled with broth, and keep the preparation covered. Cut off the bones oi the tur- key’s legs, put them into a stewpan with the giblets of the turkey, some trimmings ot veal, and it possible the bone of a loast leg of mutton, moisten all these meats, to cover, with broth; add some vegetables, such as: leek, carrots, onions, and celery; as well as a bunch ot aromatics, salt, pepper, and cloves ; set the stewpan on the fire, skim the liquid ; at the first bubbling, remove it back to the side of the fire. One hour and a half after, pass it through a napkin, carefully skim off the fat, and then dilute, with it, the meat pounded with the rice ; now pour the preparation into the stewpan, let it boil, stirring it; remove it back to the side of the lire ; add to it two tablespoonfuls of curry-powder, diluted with a little broth; twenty minutes afterwards, pass the soup through a tammy, waim it to the degree requisite, mix into it the turkey-scollops, and pour it into the tureen.