THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK 236 V 539. Broiled brisket of mutton, with sour-gravy. Let two briskets of mutton soak in cold water, drain them, trim them, remove the bone adhering to the sinews, as well as the remainder of the skin adhering to the extremities of the ribs ; tie the biiskets both together, place them thus in a stewpan with water, salt, and a tew vege- tables; boil them according to the same method as applied to the stock-pot soup ; when they are at the degree requisite, bone them, let them cooi between twro baking-sheets, in order to get them quite straight, as soon as they have cooled, trim them regularly, season them with salt and pepper, roll them in butter, sprinkle over a handful ot cooked fine-herbs and chopped parsley, roll them in bread-crumb, and let them broil lor twenty minutes on a slow fire, mind turning them; dish, and serve separately a good sour-gravy {see art. 171). 540. Roast leg of mutton with gravy. In order to get a roast leg of mutton, which may be eaten in good conditions, the meat must be furnished by a young, well-led animal; moreover it must be kept hanging to the degree requisite: as a leg of mutton, if too fresh, is not only tough, but also of mean succulence. Let the leg of mutton be roasted on the spit, or in the oven, the operation is always of the plainest kind, the main thing is not to do it too much, as then it would be dry ; nor yet to have it under-done, as meat with the blood in it, even in England, is less estimated than generally is supposed. For a leg of mutton of six or seven pounds, roasted on the spit or in the oven, fifty-five or sixty minutes will do, if the fire be well managed; if the fire is slow and but little blazing, it will require a quarter of an hour more. — In order to have the leg done to the degree requisite, the meat must remain rose-colored in the interior or at least round the inner bone ; but if this part is too highly attacked by the heat, the meat o course will be dry, and have lost a great part of its good qualities. Roast leg of mutton must be served with a little good gravy, an a garnish of vegetables or vegetable-puree; in any case, the gravy is served separately.