THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 108 water ; drain them well, put them into a stewpan, with a little butter, a little sugar, salt, and pepper; finish cooking them, on a moderate fire; sprinkle over a pinch of flour, moisten them with a little broth ; let the liquid reduce for some minutes on a moderate fire, then pass the liquid through a sieve. — Take two shoulders of hare, one or two legs, the neck and breast; divide shoulders and legs in two ; also divide the neck and breast; put them into a stewpan with butter, let them fry ; season, and add to them a little bunch of aromatics, and some peppercorns; let them take a little color, tossing them often; sprinkle over a small handful of flour, gradually moisten them with warm broth, and a glassful of white wine: the stock should now show slightly thickened. At the first bubbling, remove the stewpan back to the side of the fire, finish boiling the meat; drain it, remove the fleshy parts, which pound, and then pass all through a sieve. — Skim the fat off the soup, into which mix the hare- puree, and then take it off the fire ; add to it a pinch of cayenne-pepper, pour it into the tureen, passing it through a fine colander. Serve at the same time a plate of fried bread-croutons {see art. 61). 267. Hare-soup with quenelles. — Skin a hare, draw it, put the blood by for after-use : disengage the paws and legs ; preserve one of the latter, cut the rest in pieces, as well as the breast and neck; cut the back in two. Mince one onion, put it into a stewpan, with a few slices of car- rot and celery; fry these vegetables on a moderate fire; add to them some raw trimmings of either veal or poultry, a raw ham-bone, some few swarths of bacon, or a boned and blanched calf s foot, and last of all, the pieces of hare ; let the meat fry too ; ten or twelve minutes aftei, moisten it with broth, and halt a bottle of white wine; let the liquid boil, skimming it; remove it back to the side of the fire. Add to the bioth a bunch of aromatics, composed of thyme, bay-leaf, basil, and marjoiam, then some peppercorns and cloves ; the meat being nearly done, carefully skim the fat off the stock, which slightly thicken with a little potato-flour or diluted arrowroot; keep it then at the side of the fire. As soon as the meat of the back is done, drain it, and leave it to cool. Skim the fat off