THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY- BOOK. 38 pressing the ice between bucket, and ice-box; this pestle is in massive wood, square at one extremity, and round at the other. 64. How to prepare ‘dor nr e\ — The material, usually employed in the kitchen for giving the surface a golden or yellow color, called ^dorure’, (or egging,) is composed simply of well beaten whole eggs, 01 else with yolks of eggs diluted with a little water. 65. How to prepare bread-crumb. — In the kitchen two sorts ot bread-crumb (panure) are employed, the one dry, the other fresh; the latter is especially applied to the preparation of cutlets, fillets, and fried fish. Dry bread-crumb is prepared with remains of bread, put into the hot-closet in order to dry, then pounded and passed through a colander. Fresh bread-crumb is prepared with stale household-bread, the crumb of which is rasped. This bread is also passed through a colander. 66. How to fry parsley. — Fried parsley is frequently employed to garnish fried dishes ; this is properly no garnish, but simply a decoration. In order to fry parsley, in the first place, the leaves must be disengaged from the stem, then washed, and well drained. They are plunged in hot hog’s-lard, and drained immediately when stiff. 67. How to pack up (frapper) moulds in ice. - Moulds are packed up with simple ice, or else with salted ice. In the former case, it is sufficient to pound the ice, put part of it into a basin, and set the mould thereon. If the mould is provided with a cylinder, this is first filled with little pieces of ice, then the remainder is placed all round the mould. Moulds are packed up in salted ice, when they are to be filled with preparations of plombiere or mousse. In this case, the ice must be pounded, the water is well drained previous to salting it, then it is spread in a layer on the bottom of a bucket; on this layer then is set the mould carefully shut, which is surrounded with the remainder ot the ice, care- fully pressed together. The mould once filled with the preparation destined for it, and the junctures being cemented well with butter or raw paste, sprinkle over a little salt, and cover it entirely with salted ice. 68. How to prepare spinach-green. — Spinach-green is frequently employed to color purees for soup, butter, sauces, and even sugar , it