PUEJ&E-SOUPS. Ill add to it the leveret-puree, previously diluted with a small part of the soup; season it to high taste, pour it into the tureen, passing it through a sieve; add to it a few spoonfuls of cooked rice, and serve it. 273. Rice-puree, a la reine. — Prepare some good broth with a fowl, a knuckle of veal, and a few vegetables. On the other hand, take six ounces of blanched rice, put it into a small stewpan with broth, and thus boil it, keeping it thick; pound it, and pass it through a sieve. — 1 he fowl being done, pass the broth through a sieve, and skim off the fat. — With nearly two quarts of this broth, dilute the rice-puree; stir the liquid until ebullition, remove it back to the side of the tire, let it boil for thirty-live minutes. lake the meat ot the fowl, remove the skin, pound it; when it is converted into paste, add to it a piece of butter, and four raw yolks of > pass the preparation through a tammy. Some minutes previous to serving, skim the fat off the soup, which thicken with the preparation, pie\ iously diluted with a little raw cream; add a pinch of sugar, and another of nutmeg, pour it into the tureen, passing it through a line colander. 274. Potato-puree, with asparagus. — Pluck of white asparagus- heads, a pint; boil them in salted water, minding to preserve a part of their cooking-stock. Pluck a dozen good potatoes, wash them, and boil them, .->o as diiected, art. 2i5; pass them through a sieve, taking but few at a time; place this puree in a stewpan, dilute it with two quarts of warm milk, and a little of the asparagus-liquor. If the soup were not smooth, pass it once more, let it boil, stirring it; season, and thicken it with a liaison of five yolks of eggs ; finish it with a piece of good butter, and add to it the asparagus-heads. 2<5. Potato-puree, with leek. — Pluck six or seven leeks, cut them to equal lengths, let them blanch in water, drain, and let them braise with broth. — Pluck ten potatoes, wash them with a cloth, cut them in quarters, fry them in a stewpan with butter, and a few spoonfuls of ham, cut in dice ; as soon as they have taken a little color, moisten