156 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. Chop two onions, blanch them, drain, and fry them in butter on a moderate tire, without imparting any color to them ; add a little white broth, which reduce to glaze, then remove the stewpan off the fire, in order to add to the onions the poultry, udder, and bread-crumb ; add to this preparation a quarter of its volume of reduced ‘bechamel’- sauce, season it with salt and nutmeg. With this preparation fill some well- cleansed pigs’ or sheep’s bowels, tie them with thread, giving the ‘bou- dins’ a length of two or three inches; plunge them into tepid water, mixed with half its volume of milk, slowly bring the liquid to ebullition ; as as soon as the sausages are of a light consistence, cover the stewpan, and take it off the fire ; ten minutes after, drain the ‘boudins’, cover them up with a cloth, leave them to cool; six hours later, prick them with a larding-pin, broil them on a very slow fire, dish them, in a pyramid, on a folded napkin. A little ‘salpicon’ of truffles or mushrooms may be added to the preparation. 370. ‘Boudins’ offish and oysters. Take a pound and a quarter of fish force-meat, add to it four or five tablespoonfuls of raw truffles, chopped fine; divide it into fourteen or fifteen parts, which roll on the floured table, so as to give them an oblong, regular shape ; very slightly poach them in salted water, drain them, when they are cold, dip them into beaten eggs, breadcrumb them, give them a fine color on both sides with butter. Drain, and dish them in a circular order, on a folded napkin; place in the hollow of the circle a garnish of fried oysters. 371. Chicken-boudins, with truffles. Take the meat of a cooked chicken, trim, and cut it into small dice, which place in a basin j add to them a quartei then volume of law tiufflcs, equally cut in dice 5 introduce into this ‘salpicon’ a third its volume of poultry ‘quenelle’ force-meat, and two spoonfuls of melted glaze; pour the preparation then on the floured table, and divide it in two parts ; roll these halves, one after the other, into the shape of boudins, slightly flatten