THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 278 622. Broiled cutlets of fresh pork, with gerkins. Take a fresh neck of pork (free of fat), shorten the hones of the ribs, remove those of the chine; cut six cutlets off each neck, taking them a little slantwise ; beat them, trim them ; season, and roll them in melted butter, breadcrumb them, let them broil for twelve or fourteen minutes, turning them. — Pour into a stewpan a quarter of a glassful of vinegar, let it reduce one third ; add to it double its volume of gravy; let the liquid boil, and thicken it with a little cooked Toux’; boil the sauce for a few minutes at the side of the fire, skim off its fat, pass it through a sieve; add to it a pinch of pepper, and some spoonfuls of chopped gerkins ; dish the cutlets in a circle, and baste them with the sauce. 623. Pork-cutlets, Robert-sauce. Cut seven or eight pork-cutlets, trim them to a nice shape, season them; place them side by side in a flat stewpan with hog’s lard; let them take color on a slow fire, turning them; drain their fat, and moisten them with a little white wine and good gravy; let the liquid boil, remove the stewpan back, on a slow fire, with hot embers placed on its lid; finish boiling the pork-cutlets, letting the moisture reduce to glaze ; then moisten them with some Robert-sauce (see art. 173) ; let them simmer in this sauce for a few minutes, free of ebullition. 624. Macerated minion-fillets of fresh pork. Trim two minion-fillets of fresh pork, remove the superficial skin on the top; put them into a kitchen-basin, salt them, pour over them a little cooked marinade (see art. 44), cover them with a sheet of paper; twenty-four hours after, drain them, and lard their surface with fine fillets of bacon. Spread a small deep baking-sheet with some minced vegetables, place the fillets on the top, moisten them to height, with the cooked marinade, and a little broth ; let the moisture reduce one third; remove then the stewpan back to the side of the fire, and braise the fillets for an hour; then drain them, lighten the moisture with a little sauce; give it a few minutes’ ebullition; pass this sauce, through a sieve, on the fillets, and serve them.