THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 60 when well set, sprinkle over two or three tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring it with a spoon without leaving it; fry this flour for a few minutes, avoiding its sticking to the bottom of the stewpan; then gradually moisten the meat, half with the cooking-stock preserved, and halt with good broth. Stir the liquid till it starts to ebullition, immediately remove it back to the side of the fire, so that it boil but on one side; add to it some trimmings of fresh mushrooms; continue a moderate ebullition for at least an hour ; gradually add to it the remainder of the first cooking- stock (mind it boils well); with this addition, the sauce will not take too great a consistence. When the meat is nearly done, skim well the fat off the sauce, which pour into a basin, passing it through a sieve. — Pre- vious to employing the sauce, it is easy to give it higher succulence, by reducing it with a little good poultry or veal-stock, and finishing it according to the exigencies that the sauce requires. 139 Wliite-sauce (veloute). — Spread a stewpan with bacon, minced roots, and vegetables; on which first place some trimmings of poultry, two fowls without fillets, two knuckles, and half a shoulder, of veal. Moisten the meat with a quart of broth, let the liquid reduce quickly without taking color; then moisten the meat to its height with white broth; skim the liquid, and remove the stewpan to the side of the fire. Add a garnished bunch, some trimmings of raw ham and mushrooms; continue a moderate ebullition. As soon as the meat is done, take it out; at last pass the stock through a napkin, skim its fat, and let it set; then decant it, pouring it into a stewpan, and keeping it warm Prepare a light ‘roux’ with half a pound of butter, and the same of flour; when done, take it off the fire, and dilute it with three quarts of the previously prepared stock; the sauce being smooth dilute it with three more quarts of stock, but notice keeping it slightly thickened, hsou, let the sauce boil, then remove it back to the corner of the stove, care- fully skim its fat, pass it through a tammy into a kitchen-basm, and sti it until its greatest heat is gone. With ‘veloute’- sauce are prepared (with but few exceptions) sauces of reduction, which may not be coloied.