434 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. fry them, but few at a time, so as to get the paste dry; serve them, immediately, having sprinkled over some fine sugar. 941. Apple-fritters. Genuine rennet-apples are those best adapted for fritters. — Empty three or four apples with the aid of a tube out of the column-box; peel them, then cut them in thin slices transversally. Place these rings on a dish, sprinkle over a small handful of powder-sugar, moisten them with a little cognac; let them macerate for a quarter of an hour at most. Drain them, take them up, one by one, dip them into frying-paste (see art. 59), and plunge them into hot frying-fat: too many must not be fried at a time, so that the paste may remain dry. Drain the fritters, sprinkle over them fine sugar, dish them up, and serve them without delay. 942. Potato-fritters. Bake, either in the oven, or on hot ashes, a dozen large potatoes; remove their pulp, pass it quickly through a sieve; put this puree into' a stewpan, with the aid of a spoon add to it a third its volume of butter; add also eight or ten yolks of eggs, and a few spoonfuls of sugar flavored Avith vanilla or zest; Avhen the preparation is smooth, pour it on a buttered baking-sheet, and let it cool ; then distribute it in little parts, which roll on a floured slab, giving them the shape of a cork, then flat- tening them with the blade of the knife. — Divide the preparation with a round tin-cutter, dip these rounds into beaten eggs, then bread-crumb them, and let them fry; when they are drained, roll them in sugar, and dish them up. 943. Cream-fritters, with lemon. Break into a kitchen-basin four whole eggs, add to them two or three yolks of eggs, a grain of salt, and tAvo tablespoynfuls of sugar. Whip the eggs, add to them six ounces of flour; gradually dilute the paste Avith two glassfuls of milk, pass the liquid, through a sieve, into a stewpan ; add to it a piece of orange-zest, and a piece of butter. Stir the preparation, on the fire, in order to thicken it; immediately, when it gets consistent, take it off the fire, Avork it for three or four minutes,