THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 90 223. Julienne-soup with vegetable broth. — Cut in fillets: carrots, turnips, celery-roots, leaves of lettuce or sorrel, leek and onion. Fry these vegetables with butter, proceeding as said, in art. 222; when the moisture of the vegetables is evaporated, moisten them with fish-broth or vegetable-broth (two quarts). An excellent vegetable-broth can be pre- pared with two handfuls of dry pease, one handful ot dry mushrooms, and five pints of water; if no fish- or vegetable-broth be handy, the ‘julienne’ may be moistened, with equal parts of boiling water, and of the cooking-stock of dry haricot-beans, or ot lentils. Yet an excellent broth can be obtained, by moistening the vegetables with a light puree of pease or dry haricot-beans. In every case, the soup must be well seasoned. 224. Rice-julieime-SOiip. — In the shops, a dry preparation is found composed of vegetables, and rice in small grains (en sernoule) like semo- lina. With this mixture, a good soup is obtained, that can be prepared in a few minutes. It is sufficient to drop the rice into the boiling liquid one spoonful is required for each person. Every body knows the ‘juliennes’ preserved dry ; this method is .excellent in its principle, giving every one the possibility of having goo vegetables at all seasons, and in everyplace, either it fresh vegetab es are lacking, or if they are bad; but it is well to state, that the preparation of these vegetables is by no means as careful as it ought to be, and that its result leaves much to wish for. 225. Brnnoise-soup. - Take the same vegetables, and roots, as to a ‘julienne’: carrots, turnips, celery-roots, onions, and leeks. Cut these vegetables, with a small tube of the column-box (see D™ 72)• of carrot only the red part is taken. If the vegetables are not tender, blanch them for I few minutes; yet it is to be preferred to operate with raw, bu“;;^t onion and leek, add to them the other roots, sprinkle over a little salt, and a tablespoonful of sugar. tenie \ eg tables have reduced all their moisture, moisten them with a g.ll ot good