444 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK Lake the cakes then in a hot oven for twenty-five minutes ; when they are taken out, turn them over, then dip them into a warm punch- syrup; let them drain well, then cut their top, and dish them up; moisten them again with some punch-syrup, and serve them. 962. Tart with preserves. Take a pound of puff-paste, with butter, at six turns ; roll it out, giving it a long shape of the thickness of a good third of an inch ; let the paste rest for ten minutes, then cut out of its thickness a strip, one inch wide, and twenty-five inches long. Gather then the trimmings of the paste, divide them in two parts, roll them out, and thus shape two round flats, one of which is a little thicker than the other; spread the thicker flat on a round baking-sheet, moisten its edges, and mask its centre with a layer of consistent apricot-marmalade. Fold the second flat in four, chisel it through and through, with the blade of a small knife, so as to form any fanciful design; then spread this flat all over the marmalade, in order exactly to cover up the first flat. Press the flat on, allround, moisten it, cut it on the edges, and apply the strip of puff-paste on the wet part, soldering both the extre- mities. Egg this strip, and push the tart into a slack oven ; four or five minutes previous to taking it out of the oven, sprinkle over fine sugar, let it glaze to a nice color, let it cool, and serve it. 963. Hot-baba. Pass, through a sieve, into a kitchen-basin, a pound and three ounces of fine, well-dried flour. With a quarter of this flour, half an ounce of yeast, and a glassful of warm milk, prepare some light dough; let it rise in the hot-closet. Gather the remainder of the flour into the basin, form a hollow in its centre, add to it a grain of salt, two spoonfuls of raw cream, two spoonfuls of sugar, four whole eggs, and six ounces of good butter; introduce the flour into the liquid, working the paste with the hands; when it is smooth, add to it four whole eggs more, introducing one after the other, and always working the paste vigorously ; when the eggs are