69 ELEMENTARY METHODS. — HOT SAUCES. liquid to ebullition, then remove it back on a moderate fire, thus letting it reduce to glaze quite gently ; now prick the meat, so as to encourage the gravy to run out, and at the same time letting it take a nice color; moisten the meat then with a bottle of white wine, which also reduce to glaze. This done, moisten the meat well with broth, skim the liquid carefully; at the first bubbling, remove it to the side of the fire ; add a garnished bunch, some trimmings of mushrooms, as well as a few cooked body-bones of poultry, cut in pieces. Continue the ebullition. As soon as the veal is done, pass the stock through a napkin, and let it set; then skim its fat, and decant; it should now be, if not limpid, at least pure, transparent, and of a nice color; keep it warm. With half a pound of butter, ten ounces of good flour, prepare a brown ‘roux’ (see art. 135) ; when it is of a nice color, gradually dilute it with five quarts of the previously prepared stock; stir the sauce on the fire, until nearly boiling, immediately remove it back to the side of the :fiie, and there let it clarify (dfyouiller) quite gently for an hour; skim iits fat, pass it through a sieve into a kitchen-basin, and thus let it cool stirring it from time to time, so preventing its forming a skin. In preparing a great quantity of •sauce, it is advisable to set the I basin, into which it has been strained, on a trivet, so that the air may ■circulate on the surface of the basin : by this proceeding the fermentation of the sauce is prevented. 1<(J. How to improvise a brown-sauce. — In kitchens where it is not possible to prepare sauces beforehand, there is a method which may be ' eiT easily ancl usefully adopted. There must always be a basin of £roux’ sufficiently colored; this ‘roux’, when cold, may be kept in reserve a ■tong time without any danger. If a little brown-sauce then is to be prepared, it will be sufficient to cut a piece off this ‘roux’, and throw it nto the stewpan containing the stock or gravy, with which the sauce is 0 be piepared: this stock must be boiling; it is stirred with a spoon, till he‘roux’ be well dissolved; then it is removed back to the side of the ire, so cooking the sauce till it is well thickened, and clarified, that is kikimmed clear of fat, and all impurity; now it is passed through a sieve,'