THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 200 466. Broiled shad, with sorrel. Choose a very fresh shad, with soft-roes ; scale and draw it, cut it's tins, wipe it; season the soft-roes, and put them back into the hollow of the fish ; notch both sides of the fish, season it, pour over a little oil, let it macerate for an hour; broil it on a slow fire, turning it, and basting it with the oil of its marinade, with the aid of some sprigs of parsley tied together, so as to form a paste-brush. Dish the shad, pour over a little melted butter, mixed with chopped parsley; serve separately a sorrel- garnish. — Broiled shad is also served with a rather thick tomata-sauce, caper-sauce, or some cold ravigote. 467. Small trout boiled in salted water. The fish must be got while alive, and killed at the moment of cook- ing. — As soon as trout are killed, draw them by their gills, managing a little incision in the middle of the belly, in order to remove the gut containing tlu^blood; but they may not be washed, nay, not even wiped; on the contrary, one must be careful not even to remove the slime, with which their skin is covered; truss their heads, range them on the drainer of the fish-kettle, plunge them at once into boiling salted water, in which there is a drop of vinegar; at the first bubbling, remove the stewpan back to the side of the fire: seven or eight minutes after, drain the trout, dish them on a napkin, surround them with fresh parsley; serve at the same time, either a good Dutch-sauce, or butter-sauce, or simply some melted butter. 468. Pickled trout. Choose quite fresh small trout, draw them without opening them; wipe them with a cloth, slightly salt them, flour them, fry them with oil, preserving them whole; drain them, range them in a deep dish, or else in a kitchen-basin. Heat a glassful of olive-oil in a stewpan, mix into the oil a fourth of its volume of vinegar, a little water, some thyme, bay- leaf, basil, peppercorns, and cloves: boil this liquid on a slow fire for half an hour, pour it on the fish. Let the fish cool well, previous to serving it.