BUTCHER’S MEAT. — LAMB-FEET, MINCE, LIVER. 287 has got sufficiently firm, turn it out, and disli it in a fine circle ; dish the lambs’ feet in the hollow of this circle, masking them with curry-sauce, the remainder of which send separately in a sauceboat. 641. Minced lamb, with curry. Take the cooked meat of a leg of lamb, trim it, cut it in middling- sized dice. — Melt a piece of butter in a stewpan, add to it two table- spoonfuls of onion cut in small dice, let it fry to a nice yellow color; add to it twelve ounces or a pound of good rice previously washed, and dried on a sieve; warm it for a few moments, stirring it with a spoon •, imme- diately moisten it (to twice its height) with broth, ot which the fat has not been skimmed ; boil the rice on a slow fire, without covering the stewpan, and feeding the liquid from time to time, so that the rice do not get diy; when it is nearly at the degree requisite, add to it two small tablespoon- fuls of curry-powder, diluted with three spoonfuls of tomata-sauce; two minutes after, take it off the fire, add to it the lamb s meat; cover the stewpan, keep it thus for five minutes ; dish the stew. 642. Fried lamb’s-liver. Cut in thin slices two livers of lamb, season them on both sides, flour them, dip them into beaten eggs, plunge them into plenty of hot frying fat, taking but little at a time, so that the frying-fat does not cool; immedi- ately when the meat has well set, drain it, salt it, dish it in a group on a folded napkin, surround it with cut lemons. 643. Broiled lamb’s-liver. Cut into small slices two lamb’s livers, put them into a kitchen-basin, pour over them a little oil, season them, sprinkle over some chopped pars- ley, roll them in bread-crumb ; range them side by side on a gridiron, let them broil at a good fire, turning them, and basting them with oil, with the aid of a paste-brush, or simply with the aid of a little bunch, composed of some sprigs of parsley. As soon as the liver has set, dish the slices, basting them with a little oil mixed with chopped parsley, and the juice of a lemon, or else with dissolved hotel-keeper’s butter (see art. 545).