THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 316 sheets, then carefully trim them, range them in a flat stew pan, and moisten them with their own cooking-stock reduced to half-glaze, warm them gently ; at serving-time, ornament each of them with a small ruffle, and then dish them up in a circle. Mix into the cooking-stock four or five peeled, and chopped raw truffles, half a glassful of madeira, and a little sauce ; let the latter boil, pour it over the legs of chicken. 688. ‘Capillotade’ of chicken-legs. Take seven or eight cooked legs of chicken, trim them, and range them into a flat stewpan ; sprinkle over a little pepper, two tablespoon- fuls of chopped raw shalbts, and a few raw mushrooms, cut in dice; moisten them to height with white wine and gravy; let the liquid boil, immediately remove it back to the side of the fire, with hot embers on the stewpan-lid, or else keep it at the entrance of a slack oven. When the poultry is quite hot, thicken the cooking-stock with a little fine kneaded-butter, and add to it a few tablespoonfuls of madeira ; boil the sauce for ten minutes more, add to it a pinch of chopped parsley. Serve the chicken-legs on a hot dish, pour over them the sauce, alternate each lee: with a crust of fried bread. 689. Cliicken-pie. Cut two small chickens each into four parts ; season the pieces with salt and pepper; flour them slightly. — Mask the bottom of a pie-dish with some slices of raw ham, sprinkle them over with a little pepper, a pinch of minced shalbts and mushrooms. On the ham range the pieces of chicken; pour on the bottom of the dish a little cold broth, then cover the pie, proceeding as directed for beefsteak-pie (see art. 5b7). 690. Chicken-Timbale’. Take two middling-sized chickens, cut each of them into five pieces, which put into a stewpan with chopped bacon; let them fry on a good fire, season them with salt and spices; when they have taken a nice color, add to them six ounces of ham or streaky-bacon, and three or four peeled raw truffles cut in thick slices ; moisten them with a quartei