192 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. with a garnish of parsley, or of potatoes ; send up with a boatful of caper-sauce (see art. 152). 447. Omelet with preserved tunny-fish. Drain of its oil a piece of tunny-fish (ten ounces); spunge it on a cloth, cut it into small dice. — Put into a stewpan three tablespoonfuls of young onions, chopped very fine; let it fry with olive-oil, without getting it brown; add to it four or five tablespoonfuls of chopped fresh mush- rooms ; let reduce quickly the moisture of the mushrooms, which season; add the tunny, and immediately take the pan off the fire. - Break ten fresh eggs into a kitchen-basin, season them, add a pinch of chopped parsley and chive. Warm a little oil in an omelet-pan, beat the eggs quickly, pour them into the pan ; thicken the omelet, place on its centre- part the preparation previously got ready, roll it to a ‘porte-manteau’, turn it out on a well warmed dish. 448. Slice of tunny-fish, fried or broiled. Take a slice of tunny, an inch thick, salt it on both sides, and flour it Pour a glassful of good oil into a large skillet, warm it, add to it the slice; which let fry, turning it, for about eighteen or twenty minutes; when it is done, drain it, remove its skin, and dish it. Pour a lift e gooc oil into a clean skillet, add to it two bay-leaves; when the oil is quite hot, mix into it a quarter of a glassful of good vinegar; give the liquid two bubblings, pour it over the tunny - In order to broil a slice ot tunny it must be seasoned, then basted with oil, adding to it a few sprigs ot parsley; an hour after, roll it in fresh bread-crumb, and broil it on a moderate fire, turning it. - Tunny prepared thus, may be served will a ‘remoulade’- sauce. 449. Broiled sturgeon. Remove the skin from a piece of tender sturgeon, divide it into slices, the third of an inch thick; slightly beat these slices with he * bat, trim them, salt them, put them on a plate, baste them with o 1, add, minced carrots and onions, parsley in sprigs, and slices of lemon, keep