92 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. a those, which require least cooking-time, are immerged, mix into the soup eight or ten ounces of vermicelli; cover the vessel, and let the liquid boil for ten or twelve minutes more. At serving-time, thicken the soup with ‘liaison’ of six yolks of eggs, mixed with grated parmesan, and diluted with a little cream. 227 Turnip-soup. — Peel some good turnips, then with a vegetable- spoon cut them into little halls of the size of a large pea; throw them into a stewpan of tepid water. Mince an onion and a leek , put them into a stewpan with butter, give them a little color; add to them the turnip- trimmings, cut in pieces, let them fry for ten minutes; season them sprinkle over a pinch of flour; dilute them with two or three quarts ol warm broth; heat the liquid until starting to ebullition, then remove it hack to the side of the fire, add to it a piece of raw hani, or simply a bone of ham cut in pieces. When the turnips are done, skim the fat off the soup pour it on a sieve, disposed above a stewpan, so that the liquid passes without letting the turnips escape. Keep the stewpan at the side of tlie lire. • i i r Drain the turnip-balls on a cloth, spunge them carefully, quickly trjj them in a flat stewpan with butter, and a pinch of powder-sugar, in order to impart to them a little color. Then drain off the butter, pour tlie tur- nips into the soup, which let boil, until the turnips are done ; then pour it into the tureen. 228. Thickened soml-soup. — Take a large handful of garden sorrel, plucked and washed; either chop them coarse or mince t iem; add some tender lettuce- and chervil-leaves, likewise chopped, let them drain on a sieve, put them into a stewpan with butter, let them try, sta- ring ,bein with a spoon. Ten minutes after, season the sorrel, sprinkle over a teaspoonful of flour, moisten it with two quarts ef boiling watei, or warm broth ; let the liquid boil for five minutes, then remove it back to the side of the fire. Season the soup to good taste, let it boil .or ten oi tWe1' C«T£Tn slices two rolls, which slices dry in the hot-closet. Bray three yolks of eggs in a little basin; dilute them with four tablespoonfuls