THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY- BOOK.* 54 four spoonfuls of brown-sauce, three yolks ot eggs, and one whole egg; add the fine-herbs ; let these cool together, and then pound them. When converted into paste, take it out of the mortar, pound the panada with the remainder of the rasped bacon; add the fat-livers, by degrees, then the eggs, salt, spices, and last of all, the raw force-meat. Pass it through a sieve. 121. How to prepare force-meat, without panada — Pound into the mortar a pound of trimmed poultry-fillets, into which meat introduce four or five yolks ot eggs, one by one; then add. five ounces ot buttei, salt and spices. The force-meat being very smooth, pass it through a sieve, put it again into the mortar and pound it, mixing it with two gills of consistent, reduced, but cold, ‘bechamel’-sauce. Take it out ot the mortar, put it into a kitchen-basin, and keep it on a cool spot, if possible on ice. 122. How to prepare pike force-meat. — Proportions: half a pound of pike-meat, half a pound of panada, halt a pound ot butter, three yolks of eggs, salt and nutmeg. Take the fillets of a fresh pike, free the meat from the skin and bones, pound it, then take it out of the mortar, and place it on a dish. Pound the panada, gradually, adding to it the butter, the pounded meat, and last of all, the eggs. Season this force-meat, pound it for ten minutes more ; then pass it through a sieve ; put it into a kitchcn-basm, smoothe it by working it well with a spoon, try it, so as to rectify it if necessary, and keep it in a cool place. As to fish, the meat of which is of little substance, (such as that ot whiting, sparling, salmon, etc.) the quantity of panada, and yolks of egg>, requires to be augmented, it a good force-meat is to be obtained. 123. How to prepare partridge force-meat. — Proportions: a pound of fillets of partridge, six ounces of panada, three ounces and a half of butter, four yolks of eggs, salt and spices. — Cut the partridge- fillets into large dice, which pound into the mortar, then put the meat into a kitchen-basin. Pound the panada, and gradually add to it the game-meat, then the butter and eggs ; pass it through a sieve.