322 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. dish it up, surround it with a garnish ot cooked mushrooms, pour over the sauce, and serve it. 700. Pullet-livers in wrappers. Choose eight tine pullet fat-livers, remove their gall, plunge them into boiling water, drain them immediately, when they have set5 then divide each of them in two, season them with salt, and spices, mask them with a little cooked tine-herbs, wrap them up separately in small sheets of paper, cut as for lamb-cutlets, and oiled-, range them now on a gridiron, let them warm on hot ashes, or else at the entrance ot the oven, for fifteen minutes, turning them, but taking care to prevent the paper from becoming black. 701. Pullet-livers, sautes. Choose some good pullet-livers, trom which remo\ e theii gall. Chop an onion, let it fry with butter, without allowing it to take color; add to it the livers, and a bunch of parsley, garnished with aromatics; season, and toss them on a brisk fire, till they have well set; then remove them, and dish them up. — Pour into a stewpan half a glassful oi white wine, and a little gravy; let the liquid reduce to half, thicken it with a piece of butter, kneaded with a little flour and curry - powder; immediately pour the sauce over the livers, passing it through a sieve. 702. Gratin of pullet-livers. Remove the gall from a dozen pullet fat-livers ; divide each oi them in two; season them, let them fry in a pan, with butter on a brisk fire, in order to set it,. — At the bottom of a gratin-dish, and all round it, forma ring of raw force-meat, about an inch high; mask then the centre of the dish with a thin layer of grated bacon, mixed up with two tablespoonfuls of raw fine-herbs: chopped onions, mushrooms, and parsley ; range the livers in a group upon this layer, sprinkle over them fine-herbs, mixed up with bread-crumb, moisten them with melted butter, then push the dish into a hot oven. . Bake the livers and force- meat for ten or twelve minutes ; when the dish is taken out ot the o\ en,