244 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 557. Sheep’s trotters, ‘poulette’-sauce. Singe a dozen sheep’s feet (or trotters), remove the shaggy part between the cleft (,mfourdmre) of the foot; refresh them, boil them simply in salted water for five hours; drain them, and remove their main bone; place them in a stewpan, moisten them just to height with poulette - sauce, proceeding as is said for calf’s feet; let the feet simmer in the sauce for twenty-five minutes. Skim the fat off the sauce, thicken it with some diluted yolks of eggs; finish it with the juice of a lemon, and a piece of butter. Dish the stew. — Sheep’s trotters may, just as well as calf’s feet, be served with ‘vinaigrette’, either broiled or fried. 558. Slieep’s-tails with olives. Remove the thin parts of eight or ten sheep’s-tails, previously blanched ; put them into a stewpan with butter, two small onions, and a piece of carrot; let the meat fry on a slow fire, tossing it, and seasoning It. when it is of a nice color, sprinkle over a handful of flour, moisten them to cover with warm broth, a little gravy, and a little white wane; let the liquid boil; ten minutes after, remove it to the side of the fire if the sauce be not of a fine color, add to it a little caramel. When the tails are done, drain the sauce in a stewpan, passing it through a sieve skim it carefully, add to it a quarter of a glassful of white wine, let it reduce, until it proves thickened to the degree requisite; then trim the tails, add them to the sauce; two minutes after, remove the stewpan off the fire, mix into the stew a garnish of large stoned olives, and dish it. 559. Broiled mutton-cutlets. Not every body knows the method of trimming cutlets well; and in order more exactly to demonstrate the process, two drawings are here added, the former (181) represents a cutlet in its natural condition, the other (182) a trimmed one. It is certain, that cutlets may be also sen in mod, without being in taste the worse for it; bone and fa do ,m impeach to qualities; but, it is evident, that in order to pre ent *£ of cutlets at a table, they should be not only of a nice shape, a