284 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. bread-crumb, which let take color, basting it with the fat of the dripping- pan ; salt the quarter of lamb, take it off the spit, dish it; surround it with a little good gravy, mixed up with some fresh, chopped leaves of mint; or serve separately a boatful of mint-sauce {see art 149). 634. Shoulder of lamb, stuffed. Bone two shoulders of lamb, leaving only the knuckle-bone ; diminish the thickness of the interior meat, which trim, chop, and pound ; mix it then with some veal stuffing; add to it a few tablespoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs, and with it, fill both the shoulders; sew the shoulders up, giving them a round shape ; place them in a long stewpan, the bottom of which is spread with trimmings of bacon, and with minced vege- tables; season them, moisten them, to a fourth of their height, with wine and broth; set the stewpan on a brisk lire, let the liquid reduce to glaze; moisten then again to half their height; finish braising them, basting them, in order to give them a fine color ; drain them, trim the meat of the knuckle-bone, to which put a ruffle. Dish the shoulders of lamb, and surround them with any garnish whatever. Serve separately their cooking-stock, passed through a sieve, its fat skimmed off, and reduced to half-glaze. 635. ‘Epigram’ of lamb. Boil two breasts of lamb in water or broth; when done, drain and bone them, keeping the bone of the ribs ; let them cool with a light weight on, then trim them suitably, and divide each of them into four parts, to which give the shape of cutlets ; season, and dip them into beaten eggs, and breadcrumb them; immediately range them in a flat stewpan, with melted butter, and fry them on both sides, turning them ; drain them, stick a little bone to each piece of breast, applying it to the pointed end. On the other hand, trim eight lamb-cutlets, season them, range them in a flat stewpan, and fry them on a good fire for twelve minutes ; baste them with a little melted glaze, put a ruffle to the bone of each, and dish them in a circle, alternating them with the pieces of breast. — Pour into the stewpan, wherein the cutlets have been cooked, four tablespoonfuls of white wine, give the liquid a few vigorous bubblings, thicken it with