2g THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 41. How to prepare flue-herbs, raw or cooked. — Raw fine-herbs include: leaves of parsley, chervil, and taragon; chives, and onions; all chopped. Cooked fine-herbs comprise: chopped shalots and onions, fresh mushrooms, truffles and parsley also chopped. In order to cook these fine-herbs, the onion and shalot must first of all be placed in a stewpan with butter, and allowed to fry without taking color; then add the chopped mushrooms ; which fry, turning them, till all their moisture has evaporated; add then the truffles and parsley, season them to high flavor, and take them off the fire. The truffles may be omitted. 42. How to prepare ‘liaison’. — Liaison is compounded with diluted yolks of eggs, and either cream or broth: previous to being used, liaisons must be passed through a sieve. 43. How to prepare liquid caramel. - Liquid caramel (brown sugar-candy), called in the kitchen monkey-gravy (Jus ie singe), is very requisite in second work; it is employed for the coloring of brown-sauces, and all liquids of which the color is thought too feeble, let it must le used sparingly, having a rough, biting, taste, which easily imparts itself to the liquid, if colored too much. For the preparation of caramel, it is sufficient to put a handful ot white powder-sugar into an earthen skillet, or into a copper one, not tinned set the stewpan on a moderate fire, stir the sugar with a wooden spoon, without leaving it, until well dissolved ; then remove it back on to a slow fire, and boil till it is quite brown, and the steam rising fiom i becomes rather white; moisten it with warm water, and boil until i ■ , f i: 0.i,4 gyrur) — This caramel should be piesen ed m the consistence ot light sjiup. , i a small bottle, shut up with a chiseled cork, so that, when the bottle is turned over, the liquid may escape, although the cork be not removed. These precautions being taken, it is easy to pour out only the quantity required. 44 How to prepare cooked marinade. - Mince one onion, one carrot, and a piece of celery, put them into a stewpan with —0^ ot bacon and fat; let these vegetables fry on a moderate fire sti till they have taken a little color; moisten with a pint of plain vmega.,