THICKENED SOUPS 99 diluted with some cream; add to it the breast of a cooked chicken equally cut to ‘julienne’, pour it then into the tureen. 245. Milk-soil]), ‘a la Royale’. — Let two quarts of good milk boil, add to it a grain of salt, and a pinch of sugar; thicken it with a liaison of twelve yolks of eggs, diluted with cream. — Cut, off the crumb of a household-loaf, three dozen ‘croutons’, range them on a gridiron, sprinkle over line sugar, let them glaze in the oven; put them into a tureen, pour over the soup, passing it through a sieve. 24U. Thickened stock tor soup. — Thickened soup-stocks are pre- pared with the aid of a ‘roux’ diluted with white-broth, or jelly-broth, according as the soup is to be colored light or dark, yellow or brown. If it be a poultry-soup, it must be prepared with poultry - broth ; if game, with game-broth ; if fish, with fish-broth Whethei with meat or no, fat or fasting (rnaigre'), the stock must be as clear and pure, as possible. Soup-stocks ought always to be kept light, that is, but little thickened ; they must especially be clarified on the side of the fire, according to the method applied to sauces. 247. Soubise-soup. — With a few onions, cooked in the oven, prepare two gills of onion-puree, proceeding as indicated in art. 87. — Prepare two quarts of thickened soup-stock (art. 246), either with meat-broth or fish- broth ; keep it light, that is, only a little thickened ; let it then clarify for thirty-five minutes at the side of the fire ; skim its fat well, pass it through a sieve ; let it boil, mix in it the onion-puree. Season the soup ; ten minutes after, thicken it with a liaison of four yolks of eggs ; pour it into the tureen, passing it through a sieve. Here is another method of preparing soubise - puree; mince some onions, fry them in a stewpan with butter; sprinkle over a pinch of horn, gradually moisten them with broth ; boil the soup at the side of tlie fire for twenty-five, or thirty minutes; skim off its fat, season and thicken it with a liaison ; serve this puree with ‘croutons’ of fried bread. 248. Rib let-soup with leeks. — Blanch two giblets of either turkey oi goose; drain them, trim them, divide, and put them into a stewpan with good broth, boil them on a very slow fire ; the meat being half-done,