THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 396 863. Spinach - custard, or cheese. When the spinach is chopped, and prepared with butter, add to it a handful of grated bread-crumb ; moisten it with a little cream, but keeping it a little consistent; boil it for a few minutes, stirring it; season it, let it cool a little ; introduce into it three whole eggs, and four yolks of eggs. Butter a ‘timbale’-mould, fill it with the preparation, which let poach in the ‘bain-marie’ for three quarters of an hour; turn it out on a dish, mask it with a little sauce. 864. Farced mad-apples. Mad-apples (aubergines) are the produce of hot climates 5 if they are indeed tender, and fresh, they are good. — Choose six small mad-apples, split them in two down their length, remove their pulp, with the aid of a spoon, leaving only a thin part; let.them drain on a sieve, then press out their moisture; spunge them lightly, let them fry with a little oil. Chop the mad-apples’pulp ; chop also two or three white onions, which let fry with oil; add to them the chopped pulp ; when these vege- tables have reduced their moisture, mix up with them two small hand- fuls of bread-crumb, in order to give the preparation some consistence; add to it some parsley chopped together with a little garlic, and a pinch of pepper ; thicken it, off the fire, with a few yolks of eggs. With this preparation, fill the halves of the mad-apples, range them on a baking- sheet, one beside the other, moisten them with oil, or butter, sprinkle over a little bread-crumb, and bake them in a slack oven. 865. Salsifies with butter. Cut the leaves and thin parts, off a score of salsify-heads; scrape them; when done, plunge them into acidulated water; then divide them in two, and let them boil in salted water, also slightly acidulated, and mixed with a pinch of flour diluted with cold water, in order to blanch the liquid. — As soon as the salsifies are done, drain them, then cut them up transversally into pieces of the length of about an inch; place these pieces in a stewpan, with a piece of butter, warm them, tossing them, season, and finish them with the juice of a lemon, and a pinch of chopped parsley.