,)4 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 230. Onion-soup. — This soup, simple and not costly at all, is excel- lent in the morning for breakfast, as it is restorative and tonic — Choose some white onions (half a pound for five or six persons), pluc them and divide them in the middle; mince each of these halves m slices, which then cut transversally so as to get little squares. Put the onion into a stewpan with a piece of butter, let it fry on a very slow fire Ire- quently stirring it with a. spoon; add to it a pinch oi salt, and another o powder-sugar ; let the onion take a little color, without allowing . to become brown. At this degree, sprinkle over a teaspoonful of flour , two minutes after, moisten it with three pints of boiling water ; stir re liquid until ebullition, remove the stewpan to the side ot the hre; adc o it half a bay-leaf, and the salt requisite; boil the soup for ten or twelve minutes : at the last moment, remove the bay-leaf. This soup may be served in this condition, or be thickened with a ‘liaison’of a few yolks of eggs, diluted with raw cream In both cases, cut thin slices of white bread, which let dry in the hot-closet, then range in the tureen; sprinkle over a pinch of pepper, distribute some pieces o x fresh butter on the bread, and pour the soup into the tureen. 231. Cal)bage-soni> with bacon. - Take a piece of smoked bacon ot two pounds, cut it, trim it all round, let it soak for an hour-, wash . rn tepid water, put it into the stock-pot with five or six quaits o wa ei, it for an hour ; then add to it two small white cabbages, cut in quar ers, which again are cut transversally; then a whole onion, two leeks two large carrots, two turnips, and a celery-root, likewise cut m mi mg sized pieces; add a little salt, and some cloves ; cover the stock-pot bo the vegetables for one hour- and a half. Add to them some raw potatoes cut in slices. When these vegetables are boiled, dis i t em in ajeis the tureen, alternating each layer with thin slices of bread, and sprinkling a little tine pepper over the cabbage. Dish the smoked meat with a part of the cabbage kept by. 232. Cabbage-soup. - Cabbage-soup may be prepared either indif- ferently with crisped colewort, or green colewort, or white colewoit, crisped colewort is however preferable.