FISH. - HERRINGS, MUSCLES. 215 range them in a vessel with a cover to it; let them macerate for two days, previous to eating them. Let me recommend this simple preparation. 502. Red-herrings with fine-herbs. Remove the head from a dozen good red-herrings, split the backs, in order to open them; disengage the fillets, remove the soft-roes; take out the bones of the flesh, which let soak in milk for some hours, as well as the soft-roes. — Let fry some spoonfuls of tine-herbs (see art. 41) with mushroom; when their moisture is reduced, mix them with a large handful of bread-crumb, and a spoonful of chopped parsley. — Drain the fillets of the red-herrings, as well as the soft-roes; remove the skin from off the fillets, which range on a ‘gratin’-dish, previously f sprinkled with the prepared fine-herbs; on these fine-herbs now range a layer of herring-fillets, intermingled with soft-roes; again sprinkle over tine-herbs, pour over a little melted butter ; continue alternating herrings and fine-herbs ; sprinkle over the top a pinch of bread-crumb, let the herrings gratinate in the oven ; when they are taken out, pour over the juice of two lemons, and serve immediately. 503. Muscles, with wine. Cleanse the muscles, drain them. Chop an onion and a few shalots, put them into a stewpan with butter, fry them without allowing them to take color; then moisten with a glassful of white wine ; give the liquid two bubblings, add to it the muscles, boil them on a brisk fire, the stewpan kept covered, and tossing them. Immediately when they have opened, drain them on a colander, preserving their liquor. Remove half of the shells, put them back into the same stewpan with their liquor, a pinch of pepper, and a large piece of butter, divided in little bits. Toss the muscles till the butter is melted, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve them. 504. Muscles, ‘a la matelote’. Choose a few dozen good fresh muscles, properly cleansed, soaked, and washed, changing the water several times ; put them into a stewpan,