THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 242 Prepare some tablespoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs (see art. 41), let them cool, add to them two spoonfuls of raw ham, cut in very fine dice, and the same of grated fresh bacon. Mask the tongues then with this preparation, applying it on both sides. — Cut half-sheets ol white and strong paper, fold them in two, round them with the scissors on their cut sides, oil them with the paste-brush; fold the tongues up in the paper without leaving any outlet, where the fat could escape; range these ruffles on a gridiron, let them warm on a very slow fire, for twenty minutes, without blackening the paper ; immediately dish them. 552. Boiled leg of mutton, caper-sauce. Get a good leg of mutton, kept hanging but a little while, and cut round, that is, without the loin adhering to it; saw the protruding bone and knuckle, plunge the leg into a long stewpan, or a braising-pan, with boiling water; add a handful of salt, cover the vessel, give the leg as many quarters of an hour for cooking as it weighs pounds ; but notice keeping the ebullition violent, as well as continued. — At serving- time drain the leg, dish it, and mask it with a caper-sauce. 553. Braised leg of mutton. Simply bone the leg on the side of the cushion ; season the meat, tie it with thread ; cut the bone short. Place the leg in a long stewpan, with either melted bacon, or hog’s lard; let it fry on a slow fire, turning it, so as to give a delicate color; remove it then with the aid of a fork, then mask the bottom of the stewpan with a layer of minced vegetables: onions and large carrots. Season the leg, and twenty minutes after, moisten it to half its height, with broth; place it on a slow fire; when the liquid is reduced, moisten again, but without excess, so that the meat boils short of moisture: last of all, when the meat is done, the coolung- stock must be reduced to half-glaze; then skim off its fat, add to it a little white wine, and thicken it with a little ‘roux’ or kneaded-butter, pour it into the stewpan. At serving-time, drain the leg, untruss it, place it on a dish ; baste it with the sauce, passing it through a sieve. Braised leg ol mutton