THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 334 fasten with thread, then tile the pigeons on a little iron-skewer, piercing them through their sides ; put them on the spit, and let them roast at a good lire for twenty-five minutes; when done, take them off the spit, untruss, and dish them up, mask them with a garnish composed of little ‘quenelles’, mushrooms, and poultry-livers, basted with a little white- sauce, reduced with the trimmings of the mushrooms and a little wine. These pigeons may be served also with some Perigueux- or tomata-sauce. 725. Compote-pigeons. Choose three young live pigeons, bleed them on the neck, gatheiing their blood, with which mix two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, in order to keep it liquid. — Pluck the pigeons, singe them, draw, and truss them with their legs folded back, and slipped beneath the skin ; place them in a stewpan, with butter, half a pound of streaky-bacon cut in squares, and fifteen tender small onions ; set the stewpan on a good fire, let the pigeons and vegetables fry, tossing them until they have taken a nice color; slightly salt them, sprinkle over a handful of flour; two minutes after, moisten them to cover with white wine and broth ; add to them a^ bunch of parsley garnished with aromatics, and a pinch ot pepper; let the sauce boil, remove it back to the side ot the fire. At the last moment, add to them the livers. When the pigeons are done, untruss them, and dish them up; sur- round them with the garnishes ; remove the bunch out of the sauce, which then thicken with the pigeons’ blood; pour the sauce over the pigeons, passing it through a sieve. 726. Pigeon-cutlets, in ruffles. Singe and draw four young pigeons, cut them m two, along all then- length ; remove all the bones from the back and body, remove the pinion, bone the thick part of the leg, leaving but the end; then cut the paw at the juncture, whereupon split the skin of the pinion, at half its height; slip the finger beneath the skin, in order to let the end of the pinion- one pass by this aperture, and keeping it within ; slightly beat the halves ot pigeons with the cutlet-bat, and season them ; let them try slightly, on both sides, in a stewpan with butter.