THE HOUSEHOLD COOKEliY-BOOK. 370 810. Omelet with crusts. Break ten eggs into a basin, season them, add to them a pinch of grated parmesan, beat them up quickly for a few moments. — Cut into small dice a piece of household bread-crumb; put them into a colander, in order to sift through the fine crumbs, let the dice fry in a pan with butter ; when they have taken a nice color, drain them on a sieve. Melt in an omelet-pan three ounces of butter; as soon as it is warm, pour the eggs into the pan, adding to them the bread-crusts; thicken the omelet, fold it up, turn it out on a dish. 811. Omelet with mushrooms. Mince some fresh, well cleansed, good hot-bed mushrooms ; put them into a thin stewpan with either oil or butter, season them, let them fry on a brisk fire, until their moisture be reduced; add to them a pinch of chopped parsley, immediately take them off the fire. — Rub the bottom and sides of a kitchen-basin, with half a clove of garlic ; break into this basin ten fresh eggs, season them, add to them a pinch of chopped parsley and chives. — Pour a quarter of a pound of butter melted into an omelet-pan, let it warm, add then to it the beaten eggs ; thicken the omelot, spread on its centre the mushroom-preparation, immediately fold it up, turn it out on a small oval dish. 812. Omelet with ham. Cup up a piece of very tender ham, let it soak for a few hours in cold water or milk, in order to dissalt it; then spunge it, and cut it into dice. _ Break ten fresh eggs into a basin, season them, beat them vigo- rously, add to them a pinch of chopped parsley. Melt three ounces of butter into an omelet-pan, add to it the ham, which warm for two moments ; pour the eggs into the pan, thicken them, stirring them with a wooden spoon ; fold the omelet up to a ‘porte-manteau’ (see draw. 278), turn it over on a small oval dish, well warmed, glaze it with the paste- brush, and serve it. 813. Omelet with kidneys. Trim and mince a good raw veal-kidney; cut it up in fine slices, not too large; put them into a frying-pan with a piece of butter, season them,