THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 26 strip must then be visible at both ends, without one of its sides being longer than the other. And that is precisely the thing, which can only with difficulty be obtained at the first attempt. A first line being once larded, the strips of the following one must be slipt in between those of the first, and come out just at half the thick- ness of the meat occupied by the first line; a look cast on the diawing will show this method exactly. But when these first two lines are larded, if the larding is to be continued, instead of inserting the larding-needle between the strips of the second line, the operation must be renewed at its starting-point, that is to say, two lines are larded again in the previous order, only observing that the ends of the strips ot bacon of the second division, lose themselves in the last line ot the first division. This, in short, is the theory of larding, rendered still more comprehensible by the drawing 37. The drawing 36 represents the larding needle case {etui). 37. How to chop vegetables and meat into ‘julienne’. Mincing vegetables and meat into ‘julienne’ means, dividing them m small fillets of square shape, and nearly an inch in length. These fillets should be of the thickness of a square four-sided cord. The vegetables usually cut or shred to ‘julienne’ are: truffles, mushrooms, carrots, tur- nips , onions, beet-root, cabbage, celery, and parsley-roots. One may also cut or chop to ‘julienne’, cooked poultry-or game-fillets, and pickled tongue. — For this operation the vegetable, or meat, is in the first place, cut into slices of greater length than breadth, about an inch ; then take these slices, place them one upon the other in small quantities; chisel them transversally, observing to cut the fillets just as broad, as they are thick. 38. How to prepare ‘salpicons’. — ‘Salpicons’ are prepared with cooked and cooled meat, with pickled tongue, sweetbreads, and so on; they may also be prepared with game or poultry, as well as with fat-liver, vegetables, truffles, and mushrooms. The meats or vegetables destined to compose a ‘salpicon’, are cut in dice, more or less large, according to the use for which they are intended; but in all cases, they must be as regular as possible. For this preparation the food is divided in slices ot equal