102 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY- BOOK. and pass it through a sieve, put it into a kitchen-basin, work it with a spoon, introducing into it a few tablespoonfuls of cold, although liquid, meat-glaze. With this force-meat, now prepare some small quenelles. When poached, drain them, put them into the tureen, add an equal quantity of small cocks’-combs of fine white color, and the same of cocks’-kidneys ; the cocks’-combs must be cooked, the kidneys need only be poached. Skim the fat off the soup, thicken it with a few yolks of eggs diluted with a little raw cream ; pour it into the tureen, passing through a tine colander. 255. Ox-tail-soil]). — Divide an ox-tail, cutting the pieces at the natural joints; let them steep in cold water for an hour or two ; let them blanch for ten minutes; drain them, refresh them, range them on the bottom of a stewpan masked with minced vegetables, and with some aromatics; moisten them with two glassfuls of white wine, and let the liquid reduce to glaze; then moisten them with broth, and let them braise for four or five hours. Drain them now, trim, and range them into a stewpan of smaller size, keep them warm ; lighten their cooking-stock, let it boil, pass it through a sieve; skim off the fat, and mix it up wit i two quarts of jelly-broth in ebullition ; add to it three or four spoonfuls of pearl-barley boiled in broth, and then a small garnish of vegetables equally cooked. At serving-time, pour the soup into the tureen, and serve the meat separately on a dish. 256. Pork-knuckle soup. — Let soak in cold water a large salt knuckle of pork, boil it in water with one onion, and one carrot kept whole After the lapse of two hours’ boiling, plunge into the liquic a pint of dry pease; continue a moderate ebullition on the side of the fire. When tl.e pease are done, pass them through the sieve dilute the pmee with the cooking - stock of the pease ; cut the knuckle pf pork into middling-sized squares. — Let the liquid boil, stirring it, a o l cut knuckle of pork, and remove it to the side of the fire ; a quarter o an hour after, skim the fat off the soup, which pour into the tureen; serve separately some toasted slices of white bread.