22 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 30. How to poeler poultry. — ‘Poeler’ means boiling or stewing the meat in a fat, unctuous, slightly acidulated, white stock, having the quality of preserving the whiteness of the meat. Here is the way to prepare the cooking-stock for (white-stewing) ‘poeler’: fry, with some bacon-trimmings, onions, carrots, celery-root, and a little ham; add to this a garnished hunch, moisten with white broth, of which the fat has not been removed, and a little white wine; add the pulp ol a lemon without its peel or seeds. — Poultry that is to be white-stewed {poeU) must he moistened to height with this stock, and boiled slowly on a moderate fire. 31. How to braise meat. — ‘Braising’ the meat means, cooking it in the hot-closet, but in a good stock, so as to get it thoro’ly done, and yet to preserve its nutritive juices. Braised meat must always be well cooked ; in order to braise it, first of all, it must be placed in a stewpan with good fat or butter, and some trimmings of bacon; let the meat fry on a moderate fire, turning it repeatedly ; season it, then slip in, at the bottom of the stewpan, onions and carrots cut in thick slices, let these vegetables fry, and moisten the meat with a little broth ; set the stewpan ona brisk fire (keeping it covered), so as to let the liquid reduce to glaze, giving it a little color; moisten the meat again with a little broth, and then with a little white wine, so as to let the liquid reduce once more; turn the meat again, and lastly moisten it to height with good broth, let it boil on a very slow fire, with hot ashes on the lid of the stewpan; or else at the entrance of the oven. When the meat is three-parts done, and if it has diminished in volume, changing the stewpan is convenient, passing the stock through a sieve. ....... . If the meat is to be well braised, it is essential to avoid its boiling m either too light, or too fat a cooking-stock ; in the former case, it will not be braised, but boiled ; in the latter, it has lost its juice without acquu mg any distinct quality. If the operation has been well managed the meat when reaching the term of its cooking, ought to be found moistened to a quarter its height, with succulent good stock, reduced to halt-glaze, an of a nice color; then, instead of being dry, the meat proves savory,