114 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. they be slightly softened ; then drain, and fry them in butter; add a pinch of salt, and another of sugar, and finish cooking them quite gently ; then drain the butter, and add to the onions two spoonfuls of bechamel- sauce; boil them for two minutes, and then pass them through a sieve. Dilute this puree with three quarts of stock for thickened soup, pass it through a tammy ; start the soup again to ebullition, and then remo\e it to the side of the fire; twenty minutes after, skim off its fat, thicken it with a liaison of six yolks of eggs, finish it with a piece of fine buttei; add then the meat of a chicken boiled in the soup-stock, then divided in little parts, removing the skin and bones. Pour the soup into the tureen. Serve separately a plate of bread-croutons dried in the hot-closet. 283. Chestnut-puree with vegetables. — This soup is excellent, when managed well. — Prepare a chestnut-puree, proceeding as directed, art. 88 ; dilute it with three pints of warm broth, pass it through a sieve, and pour it into the stewpan ; start the liquid to ebullition, stirring it; immediately remove it back to the side of the fire, and thus let it boil foi three quarters of an hour; add a pinch of sugar. On the other hand, cut little balls of carrot and turnip, of the size of a big pea. Blanch them separately, and glaze them with broth. — Skim the fat off the soup, in which now mix the carrots, and turnips ; keep up the ebullition of the liquid, skimming it most carefully. A quarter of an hour after, add the heads of some middling-sized white asparagus; cut m lengths of two thirds of an inch, keep rather firm and blanched, boil them O. five minutes, and pour the soup into the tureen. 284. Carrot-puree with rice. — This puree is an excellent one, but is generally badly prepared in the kitchens of the middle - class: one must never forget, that its peculiar character is, to be of a fine color, very smooth, and sufficiently thickened. I will indicate two methods, being equally practical. Take a pound, or a pound and a half, of the red part of fresh, tender, odoriferous carrots, which mince; place them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, a little salt, and a pinch of sugar. Fry them until all their moisture be reduced; then moisten them with a little fresh broth, cover