238 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. have set, and their moisture is reduced ; drain them with the skimmer, place them in a small stewpan, and keep them warm. — On the other hand, mince a dozen or fifteen fresh mushrooms, put them into the pan, let them fry at a brisk fire, with butter and a clove of garlic; toss them, season them highly; when their moisture is reduced, sprinkle over a pinch of flour, and moisten them with a little good cream ; let the stew boil quickly for five or six minutes, range it in a circle on the bottom of a dish, and place the kidneys in the centre. 543. Stew of sheep’s liver and pluck (fraissure), with wine. Take a sheep’s liver and pluck; cut the latter in squares, and the liver in slices. Put the lights into a stewpan with a piece of butter, an onion, and a garnished bunch; season it, let it fry, stirring it; when it has taken a nice color, sprinkle over a pinch of flour; a few minutes after, moisten it to cover with either white or red wine ; let the liquid boil,'remove the stewpan back on a more moderate fire. ?On the other hand, place a dozen small onions m a stewpan, with • butter let them fry ; add a little salt, and a pinch of sugar ; when they have taken a nice color, drain the fat, moisten them with a little broth; boil the onions, letting the liquid reduce. — When the lights are nearly done, season the slices of liver, fry them slightly, and mix them into the stew, add also the onions. Let the stew simmer tor ten minutes ; then dish it, having removed the bunch. 544. Farced minion-fillets of mutton. Choose ten or twelve minion-fillets of mutton, remove their epi- dermis, beat them, trim them, give them the shape of a long square, season them ; chop the trimmings with a like quantity of bacon and raw ham ; mix into the hash a handful of bread-crumb, an egg, a spoonful o shalots, and mushrooms, a pinch of parsley, chopped; season it with salt and pepper; when well mixed, mask the fillets with it, one side o il , applying it in a thin layer; then roll the 'paupiettes, traverse them u a wooden skewer; roll them in melted butter, breadcrumb them and broil them at a slow fire for twelve or fifteen minutes, turning them,