300 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 661. Poultry-cream. Put into a stewpan six tablespoonfuls of poultry-puree, dilute it with ten yolks of eggs, and a glassful and a half of raw cream, or good milk; season the preparation with salt and nutmeg; pass it through a fine sieve, pour it into a small chariot-mould of low shape, previously buttered, and masked at the bottom with a round of paper; set the mould in a round baking-sheet with water up to half its height, let the preparation poach in the ‘bain-marie’ for full an hour. Then turn the cream out on a dish, mask it with a little white-sauce, reduced with the mushrooms’ liquor ; serve it immediately. 662. Case of small chickens with fine-herbs. Divide two small chickens, each of them into five pieces. — Fry in a saute-pan a few tablespoonfuls of fine-herbs (see art. 41); add to them the legs of the chickens, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. When half-done, add moreover the chickens; and five minutes after, range them in a paper entree-case, previously oiled, and masked, on the bottom and all round, with a layer of cooked force-meat (see art. 118). Mask the chickens with the fine-herbs, over which sprinkle a handful of bread-crumb ; set the case on a dish, surround it with a strip of paper, then push it into a slack oven, and keep it there for a quarter of an hour. As soon as the case is taken out of the oven, baste the chickens with a little good sauce, and send them up. 663. Poultry-quenelles with truffles. ‘Quenelles’ are simple but excellent entrees, yet on the condition that they be well prepared : a ‘quenelle’ which fails of being creamy and delicate, by these facts possesses no good qualities at all. — W ith the fillets of two fowls prepare a delicate ‘quenelle’-force-meat (see art. 11 05 as soon as it is passed through a sieve, put it into a kitchen-basin, work it well with a spoon, gradually introducing into it three or four tablespoon- fuls of raw cream. With the aid of two spoons then mould, out of this force-meat, four- teen or fifteen ‘quenelles’ of a rather long shape (sec art. 45); slip them