488 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. In order to prepare vanilla - ice, a stick of vanilla is split down the middle, and cut into two or three pieces. Let a pint of good milk boil; at the first bubbling plunge the vanilla into the liquid, cover the stewpan, and take it off the fire. In the meanwhile, deposit eight yolks of eggs in a kitchen-basin, mix up with them nine ounces of powder-sugar, work the preparation with a spoon; when it is quite frothy, dilute it with the perfumed boiling- milk, pouring it in by degres ; then pour it back into the stewpan, stir it on the fire, for a few minutes, with a spoon, in order to finish thickening the cream; then pass it, through a sieve, into a basin; let it cool, stirring it from time to time; then pour it into the ice- box, and let it freeze: this preparation forms the basis of all cooked cream-ices. In order to prepare coffee-ice, it is sufficient to roast the coffee- berries just as for grinding them, that is, until the moment, when they show a kind of oily moisture; at this degree, put them into a stew- pan, and pour the boiling liquid over the coffee; cover the vessel, in order to let the liquid infuse for a quarter of an hour. With this infusion, passed through a sieve, prepare the cream, proceeding as indicated above. In order to prepare an ice - preparation with hazel-nut, almond, or walnut, the nuts must be pounded with a little water, then thrown into boiling milk. When the milk is infused, pass the liquid through a sieve, and with it, dilute the preparation of eggs, in order to get ready the cream. — For these kinds of cream, it is advisable always to add a little piece of vanilla, which advantageously relieves the taste of almonds or hazel-nuts. In order to prepare ice flavored with fresh orange-blossoms, it is • sufficient to plunge these blossoms into the cooked cream, prepared according to the method prescribed above; let them infuse for ten or fifteen minutes, then pass the cream through a sieve, and let it freeze. As for the method of freezing these different creams, there is no difference from the one adopted for fruit-ices.