THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 374 out on a small oblong dish; fold back both the ends to the inside, in order to give it a nice shape; serve it immediately. 805. Poached eggs, on anchovy-crusts. Poach some fresh eggs, one shells, taking care to keep them quite round. — Cut into oval shape several slices of household-bread, a fifth of an inch thick; let them fry in butter to a nice color. At serving-time, mask them on one side with a thick layer of anchovy-butter; range them on a dish, and set a poached egg upon each of them. 806. Poached eggs, with cream. Plunge eight eggs into warm water, whole, without breaking them; let the water boil for iivc minutes, keeping the stewpan covered; this done, drain them, plunge them into cold water, and let them completely cool ; then remove the shell, breaking it gradually. Warm the eggs in warm water for a few moments, drain them, dish them up, mask them with a reduced ‘bechamel’-sauce, finished with a few tablespoonfuls of tomata-sauce, and a piece ot butter. In order to have these eggs just boiled to the degree requisite, they must maintain themselves well in shape, while the yolk is liquid in the interior. These soft eggs may be served as a garnish. .807. Omelet with potatoes. Take some raw potatoes, which turn to the shape of corkscrews, cut off both their extremities, chop them into thin slices ; put these slices into a pan with butter, season them, let them toss on a moderate fire, until they are done, and have taken a fine color; then drain them on a sieve. Break into a kitchen-basin ten fresh eggs, season them, mix into them a pinch of chopped parsley, and beat them up quickly. — Let melt in an omelet-pan a quarter of a pound of butter ; when it is warm, pour the beaten eggs, as well as the potatoes, into the pan; spread the potatoes over all the surface of the pan, and with the prongs of a fork prick t e omelet all over, in order to make the liquid parts slip underneath; as soon as the eggs are set, turn the pan round, in order to disengage