144 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. water, and with it cut, out of the thickness of the rice, twelve small ‘croustades’; remove them from the stewpan, roll them out in fresh bread-crumb, dip them into well beaten eggs, breadcrumb them again, set them in an upright position, cern them on the top, with a plain paste- cutter of nearly an inch ; (that means, that the preparation must be cut lightly, so as to mark the aperture of the ‘croustades’;) plunge these ‘croustades’ into hot frying-fat, let them take a nice color, drain them; now with the aid of a small knife remove the cover, empty them, leaving but the thickness of a third of an inch on the bottom and sides ; fill them immediately with partridge - puree (see art. 83); pour over the puree a little melted glaze, set a slice of cooked truffle, which is to replace the cover, on each of the ‘croustades’. 344. Small ‘timbales’ of crayfish, and sole-fillets. Small ‘timbales’ may be prepared either with rice, ‘nouilles’, or fish force-meat, according to one of the methods described above ; but it is preferable to have them breadcrumbed, then emptied, and filled with a ‘salpicon’ of crayfish, or lobster, or else with an oyster-‘sa’picon. The sole-fillets are cut in ‘eguillettes’, that is, into thin strips; then they are seasoned, floured, and plunged into hot flit; when they are drained, they must be sprinkled with a little salt, then dished in a group, in the centre of the hollow formed by the ‘timbales’, on a folded napkin. 345. Small ‘nouilles’-timbales, Genoese way. Butter eighteen ‘dariole’-moulds, breadcrumb them, line them with tine short-paste, then fill the hollow with ‘nouilles’ finished with butter and grated parmesan, seasoned, and slightly thickened with a little sauce. Cover the ‘timbales’ with a round of paste, bake them in a hot oven, then turn them out, and dish them. 34(i. Little force-meat ‘timbales’, with truffles. Prepare a poultry-, game-, or fish-‘quenelle’ force-meat; add to it a few tablespoonfuls of truffles cut in small dice. "With this force-meat,