THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 130 313. Small patties, ‘a la financiere’. With fine short-paste, line a dozen channeled tartlet-moulds rather high in shape. Mask the paste inwardly with paper, then till the hollow with common flour; thus bake the little patties in a slack oven; when they are taken out, remove the paper and flour, mask then the inside with a thin layer of force-meat, and keep them at the entrance of the oven. On the other hand, cut out of a puff-paste flat a dozen rounds, with the aid of a paste-cutter adapted to the diameter of the tartlet-moulds ; egg them, draw lines on their top with the point of a small knife, bake them in the oven to a nice color. Prepare a garnish composed of cocks’-combs, little scollops of fat- liver and truffles, and some small 1 quenelles’; pour on this garnish a little brown-sauce, reduced and succulent, then heat it without ebulli- tion. Draw 90. At serving-time, fill the little patties with the garnish previously prepared, cover them with the rounds of puff-paste, dish them on a folded napkin. 314. Chicken-patties, with mushrooms. Line some tartlet-moulds with short-paste ; fill the interior with raw poultry force-meat, mixed with cooked mushrooms, cut in small dice; cover the force-meat with a flat of paste, setting it fast on that of the edges ; make a small hole on the centre in order to facilitate the evapo- ration. Bake the patties in the oven for 35 minutes ; when taken out, remove the moulds, then pour into the interior, by the opening a top, a little good gravy or sauce : serve them quite hot. — Patties of game, and also of fish, may be prepared in the same way- 315. Small patties, ‘a la dauphine’. Roll out a pound and a half of brioche-paste to flats three or four lines thick ; with a round tin-cutter, of five centimeters in diameter, cut out of the surface of this paste forty little round flats, range half of them on a baking-sheet, in order to garnish their centre with a small ball of ‘croquette’ preparation ; moisten the edges ot these flats, then cover them