68 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY BOOK. pound of butter, a pinch of cayenne-pepper, and six spoonfuls of cooked lean ham cut in small dice. 166. How to prepare Royal-sauce. — Put into a little stewpan tlnec dozen small raw truffles, formed to an olive-shape ; moisten them with half a glassful of dry champagne, add a bunch ot parsley ; let the liquid reduce, boiling the truffles. - On the other hand, pour into a flat stew- pan, seven or eight gills of white-sauce, add to it the raw trimmings of the’truffles, and reduce it one third, gradually introducing into it two gills of concentrated game- or poultry-extract. Last of all, add hall a glassful of Rhenish wine, and the liquor of the cooked truffles; let the sauce boil up a few times more, pass it through a tammy into a stewpan, work it, and add the cooked tiulfles. 167. How to prepare ‘Orleans’-sauce.— Keep in the‘bain-marie - case in a little saucepan, five gills of white-sauce, reduced to the condi- tions’ prescribed in the article 140. At serving - time, introduce into the sauce, working it, a piece of crayfish-butter, as well as a pinch ot cayenne-pepper. 168. How to prepare ‘Bearn’-sauce. — Chop two or three shalots, put them into a small stewpan with three tablespoonfuls of vinegar ; boil them till the vinegar be nearly reduced; leave it to cool, mix m then torn raw yolks of eggs, which bruise, and to which then add three ounces of o-ood butter; stir the sauce on a slow fire, in order to thicken it, without allowing it to boil; when it is at the degree requisite, take it off the fire; then add to it a pinch of chopped taragon- leaves, a spoon- ful of shalot-extract, and a little melted glaze; yet the glaze may be omitted. 169 How to prepare brown-sauce (Espagnole). - Spread the bot- tom of a stewpan with the remains of bacon, then with minced omons, carrots, and celery; on these vegetables a few slices of raw ham some good trimmings of veal, on which place the lower parts ot a leg ot veal as well as the bones of the leg; add two fowls (poults), or the hmd-part of a large turkey. Moisten the meat with a quart ot broth, stmt tie