106 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 261. Duck-soup, with turnip.. — Truss a small duck, which put into a stewpan with butter, a few small onions, a piece of carrot, and a little salt; let it fry on a moderate fire, stirring it; moisten it then with a glassful of white wine ; as soon as the wine is reduced, moisten the duck, a little more than to height, with broth ; let the liquid boil, then remove it back to the side of the fire. The duck being done, drain it; pass the liquid through a sieve, skim off the fat. With a small vegetable-spoon cut out of a large peeled turnip, some small balls the size of a pea ; let them blanch for seven or eight minutes, drain them, put them into a little skillet with a pinch of sugar, and a little butter; fry them on a good fire, giving them a little color ; moisten then with a little broth, and reduce the liquid. On the other hand, prepare a little Toux’ {nee art. 135), of yellow color, with a piece of butter, and two tablespoonfuls of flour; gradually dilute it with the duck-broth, so as to obtain a slightly thickened stock , at the first bubbling, remove it back to the side of the fire ; twenty-five minutes after, skim the fat off the soup, which pass through a sieve, and put back into the stewpan; now add to it the turnips. Cut the meat of the duck’s breast in little slices, which add to the soup, and pour this into the tureen. 262. Hunter’s leveret-soup. — Prepare three quarts of brown stock for thickened soup, and keep it on the side of the tiie. Cut a leveret, let it fry in butter with a few minced roots and vege- tables, a few dice of raw ham, and a bunch of parsley garnished with aromatics. A few minutes after, moisten the meat and vegetables with a glassful of white-wine, reduce the liquid to glaze, then pour all of it into the soup kept in ebullition ; three quarters of an hour after, skim the fat and pass it through a sieve; cut the fillets m scollops, and put them, one by one, into the tureen. With the meat of the other parts of the leveret, prepare some puree; dilute it with a little of the previously prepared stock, and with it, thicken the soup ; heat it well without let- ting it boil, and then pour it into the tureen. 9(33 Hunter’s partridge-soup. — Draw two or three young pai- triages, disengage their legs, put their breasts into a stewpan with some