OMELET, WITH CRUSTS, MUSHROOMS, HAM, KIDNEYS, SORREL. 377 let them fry on a brisk fire; as soon as they arc set to the degree requisite, drain the moisture, pour over them a little melted glaze, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley. On the other hand, break into a kitchen-basin ten fresh eggs, season them, add to them a pinch of chives, beat them up quickly. — Pour three ounces of melted butter into an omelet-pan, and when it is well warmed, mix up with it the beaten eggs ; thicken the omelet, gather it to the rim of the pan, opposite to the side with the handle ; turn the slices out on the centre of the omelet; which fold up, and turn over on a dish. 814. Omelet with sorrel. This is an omelet most commonly partaken of in spring-time, the sorrel then being tender. Melt a piece of butter in a stewpan, add to it four tablespoonfuls of sorrel-puree ; season it with a little salt, and a pinch of sugar; let it fry, stirring it, until its moisture be reduced ; thicken it then with two spoon- fuls of reduced ‘bechamel’-sauce; boil it for five minutes, without leaving it, then take it off the fire. — Break ten fresh eggs into a kitchen-basin, season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; add to them two or three spoonfuls of cream, beat them up quickly. — Melt a quarter of a pound of butter in an omelet-pan; when it is well heated, add to it the beaten eggs; immediately thicken the omelet, place the sorrel on its centre, fold it up, turn it out on a small oblong dish. 815. Macaroni with gravy. Before boiling the macaroni, prepare a little good succulent veal- gravy, skim off only part of the fat; mix with it some spoonfuls of tomata-sauce, a small bunch of aromatics, a few grains of pepper, and a little raw ham; let it simmer by the side of the fire. The macaroni of Naples is that to be preferred, for it is superior to all that is manufactured elsewhere, especially when it is fresh. There are several species of macaroni; the large, the middling - sized, and the small; all three sorts may be prepared with gravy.