THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 204 breadcrumb them. -— Pour on a baking-sheet some melted butter, let it get warm, range then the fillets of tench, placing them side by side, let them take a line color on both sides, dish them, and baste them with the butter, surround them with cut lemons. 479. Gratinated tench. Cleanse two middling-sized tench. Sprinkle, over a ‘gratin'-dish, two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion, the same of mushroom, and a little parsley; range the tench on the dish, one beside the other, salt them, moisten them with half a bottle of white wine ; bake them in the oven, turning them ; when they are done, their cooking-stock should be nearly reduced; drain this cooking-stock, mix into it a little brown-sauce, and let it boil, pass this sauce through a sieve on the tench; sprinkle over the fish a little chopped parsley mixed with bread-crumb ; pour over a little butter; keep them in the oven for ten minutes more, previous to serving them. 480. Small eels, with white-sauce (a la poulette). Remove the heads from three well cleansed small eels; divide their bodies into pieces two inches long, wash them with tepid vinegar, so as to remove the slime; refresh them, spunge them on a cloth. Chop an onion, put it into a stewpan, with a piece of good butter, let it fry, with- out allowing it to take color; add the pieces of eel, toss them, on a busk fire, season them, sprinkle over a pinch of flour, gradually moisten them with white Avine, so that the sauce covers the fish; add a bunch of parsley, let the liquid boil; a few minutes after, add a dozen plucked fresh mushrooms ; cover the stewpan ; twelve minutes after, take it off the fire, thicken the sauce Avitli a liaison of three diluted ) oiks of eggs, add the juice of a lemon, then remove the pieces of eel with a fork, and dish them; pass the sauce through a fine colander Over the fish, range the mushrooms all round. 481. Bar, or sea-wolf, in court-bouillon. Scale a bar, and when it is properly cleansed, fill the hollow of the belly with some bread-stuffing; sew up the aperture,^ fix the fish on the