32 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. There are exceptions, when fish are not drawn, such as anchovies,, sardines, and red mullets; but even in this case, it is convenient to tear off the gills. The fish, requiring to be drawn, are drawn generally from the belly; but this aperture must always be contrived, as narrow as possible. In some cases, it even proves convenient, not to open them at all, and to draw them by the gills; this proceeding being preferable, whenever it is practicable. 52. How to prepare suet-paste. — Spread a pound of flour m a circle on the table ; place in its centre half a pound of chopped beef-suet, a little salt, an egg, and two glassfuls of water; form a stiff-paste, let it. rest half an hour previous to employing it. 53. How to prepare nouille-paste. — Nouille-paste is prepared in the proportions of five or six whole eggs to a pound of flour. — The flour is strained over the table, gathered, and a cavity formed in its centre; m this hollow put a pinch of salt, five or six whole eggs, and two table- spoonfuls of cold water. Bray the eggs with the hand, gradually introduce into them the flour, so as to obtain a paste of not too great consistence; roll it on the table until quite smooth ; wrap it up in a cloth, and let it rest for ten'or fifteen minutes. 54. How to prepare puff-paste. — This paste is in tact easily pre- pared, but requires to be treated with practical skill and experience. Above all it is indispensable, to use flour of the first quality. - out a pound of good, firm, flour, well dried, and strained; set out a pound of oood, not too fresh, butter : in summer this butter may be kept on ie ice till wanted; in winter it must be kneaded in a cloth, so as to make Spread the flour on the table in a circle, pour a glass of water in the centre add a pinch of salt, then with the right hand, softly ming e the flour and water, so as to get a smooth, and soft paste, but yet ol nice consistence ; work it for but two minutes, if the paste is well prepared, it ought not to stick, either to the table, or to the hands. Cover■ r with cloth, and let it rest for ten minutes. Sprinkle the table with a little flour,