24 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. Boil thirty-two quarts (8 gallons) ot water, with ten pounds of salt, four ounces of saltpetre, two pounds of raw sugar; (or proportionally for sixteen, eight or four, quarts ; i- e. 4, 2, or 1 gallon) add to it some aromatics and peppercorns ; let the liquid cool. Range the pieces of meat in a tub or small cask, cover them with the souse ; place .over them a wooden round, and put a weight on this, in order to keep the meat covered by the souse ; turn it from time to time. — Proceeding thus, twelve days will suffice for salting a tongue. Fifteen days will do to salt a buttock of beef, or a sirloin : large pieces of meat must be always boned. 34. How to prepare bun dies of parsley. — The thing called in cookery a bunch of parsley, is a few sprigs of clean parsley, shaped into a faggot or bundle, bound round with thread, then cut on both ends. Bunches of parsley are commonly garnished with half a bay-leaf, and some blades of thyme. 35. How to stone and blanch olives. — If the olives are fleshy, large, and with small stones, these must be removed by the aid of a column- tube. If the olives are small, the pulp must be detached spirally fiom the stones, with the aid of a small knife, slipping the blade between the pulp and stone; if the pulp is well cut, the olive should get its old shape again, when the stone is removed. In order to blanch the olives, they must be plunged into boiling water, and immediately removed back to the side of the fire ; drain them five minutes after. 36. How to lard meat (piquer). — The art of lardipg according to the given rules, is not in the power of everybody ; it is a work of practice, but especially of attention and of taste. In order to lard (piquer) well, it is imperative to have at disposal some good salted bacon, but fresh, white, firm, and dry. Previous to cutting off the strips, the bacon must be kept on the ice, especially m summer, so as to give it more consistence ; as tor the length, and thick- ness of the strips of bacon, this is a matter of taste. It is sufficient, if they are of equal size, and of an exact squaie shape; of couise these strips must be longer, and thicker, when adapted to large pieces, than " lien