394 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. four ounces ancl a half of good butter, divided in little bits ; add to them a pinch of sugar, and another of nutmeg; surround them with fried crusts. 857. Green-pease (au naturel) plain-boiled. Choose freshly gathered pease, which pluck; remove the largest ones, plunge them into boiling water ; add to them a bunch of parsley or mint, and a little salt; boil them on a brisk fire for twelve or fifteen minutes ; drain them immediately, when done, in a colander; dish them up, accompany them by a plate of fresh butter. — In order to get the pease of a nice green color, they must be boiled on a brisk fire; and in a red basin, or copper sugar-pan. 858. Preserved green-pease. If no fresh green-pease are at disposal , there may be procured now-a-days in every country preserved green-pease, which, if prepared well, are not without good qualities, and are very useful as a diversion. The method how to prepare these green-pease, is a very simple one: the box must be opened, then its contents turned out on a colander; now this is dipped in boiling salted water; drain the green-pease well, put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, a pinch of sugar, salt and nutmeg; warm them, and thicken them either with a little white-sauce, or else simply with a piece of kneaded-butter. 859. Hop-sprigs. I will describe in one single article the different manners of pre- paring hop. In order to prepare hop ‘a la poulette’, the tender sprigs must be taken ; pluck them, slightly scrape them, wash them, boil them in aci- dulated salted water; drain them, put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, season, and let them fry for a few minutes; thicken them with a little white-sauce, finish them with a liaison, a little chopped parsley, and the juice of a lemon. Hop-sprigs boiled in salted water, may also be served as salad. In order to let the hop-sprigs fry,* they must be three-parts boiled in salted water; this done, drain them, season them with salt and vinegar,