THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 212 peppercorns. Let the liquid boil for seven or eight minutes ; add then twenty live crayfish; boil them, kept covered, ior seven 01 eight minutes; toss them a little, drain, and dish them. Pass the liquid, reduce it to half, mix it with a piece of butter, pour it over the crayfish. 495. Crayfish omelet. Cut into dice two or three dozen boiled Cray fish-tails. Chop the flesh of the claws, together with the trimmings of the tails, and an equal volume of fresh mushrooms; put them into a kitchen - basin, bieak into this basin ten fresh eggs; season them with salt and nutmeg, add a pinch of chopped parsley, beat them with a whip for some moments. Warm five ounces of butter in an omelet-pan, mix into it the beaten eggs; thicken the omelet, place on its centre the warmed crayfish-tails, mixed with a tablespoonful of white-sauce, reduced with a little meat-glaze. Roll then the omelet up to a ‘porte-manteau’, and turn it out on a smalL oblong dish. 496. Stewed fresh herrings. The great merit of this manner of preparation is, that in cooking,, all the hones of the herrings disappear. - Cut off the heads from quite fresh and properly cleansed herrings; range them in layers, into an earthen stock-pot; season each of the layers. - Mince some carrots and onions, let them fry with butter ; add to them a few peppercorns, a clove of garlic, and a bunch of parsley; moisten these vegetables with white wine, in a sufficient quantity to cover the herrings ; let the liquid boil, remove it to the side of the fire; half an hour after, pass it, through a sieve on to the herrings; cover the vessel, lute its jointures; boil the herrings on a very slow fire, for five hours, without touching them; serve them either hot or cold. 497. Crayfish-salad with aspic-jelly. Boil four or five dozen small crayfish (see art. 47); when they hav< cooled, disengage their tails and large claws, which pluck; put then into a kitchen-basin, and season them, baste them with a little oil an.