the HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. degrees with a glassful of water, scarce tepid : the paste must be smooth, and flowing, but coating well the spoon. Whip three whites of eggs; when firm, introduce them into the paste, but only a few minutes previous to using it 60. How to whip cream. - If the cream is to be whipt well and get light, it must be first of all quite pure, and then kept quite still. It should be left on the ice for twelve hours, then poured into a basin, decanting it and then whipped with an osier-whip. If the cream is of good quality it will become frothy, and thickish, like ‘nriringue’, in a few moments; if inferior in quality, it will remain soft, light, its volume does not augment; in this case, in order to strengthen it, a pinch of powder tragacanth-gum is mixed into it while whipping. 61 How to prepare bread-croutons. - For the kitchen, ‘crofitons of various shape are employed; those served with soups are general y cut in small dice, or else in flat rounds; those served as a garnish otrf dish, are commonly in the shape of a crescent or triangle. In order to g bread-'crouton s’ in dice, first of all cut slices of stale household-bread of the thickness intended for the ‘croutons’, trim these slices to make all four sides even, and out them in square fillets; then take these, e s small quantities, keeping them in the left hand, cut them crosswise, so as to give them the shape of small dice. In order to obtain bread- croutons of triangular shape, also cut slices of stale household-bread; divide these slices in strips about an inch long, then cut them slantwise, and m two directions, so as to obtain triangles of rather long shape, ot which th I longest side is cut straight. In order to obtain fine bread - croutons they must he fried in clarified butter, or oil; but in a saute-pan, and not in quantity of Log’s lard. 62. HOW to blanch rice. - In order to blanch rice it is sufficient to i , h ldvo-plv with cold watei , then a p into a stew-pan, and moisten it lai^, y .