410 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY- BOOK. 891. Plain omelet ‘soufflee’. Break six fresh eggs; put the yolks into a kitchen-basin, and the whites into a copper-basin. Mix up witli the yolks four tablespoonfuls of powder-sugar; work the preparation for ten minutes with a wooden spoon, in order to get it frothy. — Whip the six whites ; as soon as they are quite stiff, introduce into them four tablespoonfuls of sugar, mixed either with vanilla, lemon-zest, or orange-blossoms, crisped (pralmees) and pulverised; this mixture being operated, add the yolks of eggs. Immediately pour the preparation on a buttered long dish; then equalise it, and with the blade of a large knife cut it in two along the middle, letting the knife go down to the bottom of the dish; sprinkle the omelet over slightly with powder-sugar, push it into a slack oven, or else bake it in the field-oven : twelve or fourteen minutes will do ; when the omelet is taken out of the oven, sift over it fine sugar, and serve. — This omelet may suffice for five persons. 892. Celestine-omelet. Put into a stewpan four yolks of eggs, and one whole egg; beat, them up well with a spoon, mix into them four tablespoonfuls of flour, the same of poAvder-sugar, and three ounces of butter; dilute this pre- paration with tAvo glassfuls of milk ; pass it then, through a sieve, into a stewpan, stir it on the fire, till it be well thickened, and of a nice con- sistence ; then take it off the fire, add to it a little sugar grated on lemon, a grain of salt, tAvo spoonfuls of chopped almonds, and four tablespoonfuls of broAvn-butter. Prepare a pancake-batter (see art. 905), with four ounces of flour; with this preparation get ready six or seven pancakes, larger, and a little thinner, than they generally are prepared; spread them on a baking-sheet, garnish them transversally with a part of the Trangipane’- cream previously prepared; then fold the omelets up, so as to enclose the preparation; immediately range them on a baking-sheet, placing them one beside the other; sprinkle over them some poAvder-sugar, keep them at the entrance of the oven for ten or twelve minutes, previously to serving them.