06 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. tablespoonfuls of good vinegar into a small stewpan, add some pepper- corns ; let the liquid reduce to half, let it cool; then add to it four yolks of eggs, which bray, and into which mix tour ounces of good buttei, a little salt, and a little nutmeg. Set the stewpan on a very slow tire, stir the liquid without leaving it, so as to get it about as thick as a cieam, immediately remove it, pass it into another stewpan, which place in a saute-pan, containing a little warm water, kept at the side of the the, work the sauce briskly with a spoon, or with a little whip, so as to get it frothy, but adding now and then, some little bits of butter: in all about three ounces. When the sauce has become light and smooth, pour it into a sauceboat. This sauce is the genuine Dutch-sauce: now I will give another plainer one. Put into a stewpan three yolks of eggs, mix into them a tablespoon- ful of flour, add three ounces of butter, a little salt and nutmeg. Woik the preparation with a wooden spoon, dilute it with a glassful of cold water. Set the stewpan on a slow fire, stir the liquid until the moment it begins to boil ; when it is light, of a nice consistence, finish, introducing into it a piece of good butter, and the juice of a lemon. 15S. How to prepare veloute-sauce with mushroom-extract. Porn into a stewpan four gills of white-sauce; add two handfuls of fresh mush- room-trimmings ; start the sauce to ebullition, reduce it, working it with a spoon, and introducing into it, by small quantities, one gill 01 concen- trated poultry-stock, kept of as nice a white as possible Reduce the sauce one third of its volume, finish it with three or four tablespoonfuls of mushroom-liquor ; give it a few boilings up more, then pass it through a tammy. 159. How to prepare ‘Princess’-sauce. — Pour into a flat stewpan four gills of strained bechamel-sauce, start it to ebullition, stirring it with a spoon, gradually introducing into it two gills of good poultry-glaze; finish it with five ounces of fine butter, work it till wanted. 160. How to prepare cream-sauce. — Pour into a stewpan, for reduction, five or six gills of reduced good ‘bechamel’-sauce passed through a tammy ; set the stewpan on the side of the fire, let the sauce