20 NEW WORKS published BY LONGMANS and CO, Willich’s Popular Tables for As- certaining the Value of Lifehold, Leasehold, and Church Property, Renewal Fines, &c.; the Public Funds ; Annual Average Price and Interest on Consols from 1731 to 18G7 ; Chemical, Geographical, Astronomical, Trigonometrical Tables, &c. Post 8vo. 10s. Pewtner’s Comprehensive Speci- fier; a Guide to the Practical Specification of every kind of Building-Artificer’s Work: with Forms of Building Conditions and Agreements an Appendix, Foot-Notes, and Index. Edited by W. Young. Architect. Crown 8vo. 6s. Periodical Publications. The Edinburgh Review, or Cri- tical Journal, published Quarterly in Janu- ary, April, July, and October. 8vo. price 6s. each Number. Notes on Books : An Analysis of the Works published during each Quarter by Messrs. Longmans & Co. The object is to enable Bookbuyers to obtain such informa- tion regarding the various works as is usu- ally afforded by tables of contents and ex- planatory prefaces. 4to. Quarterly. Gratis. Eraser’s Magazine. Edited by Jams Anthony Froude, M.A. New Series published on the 1st of each Month. 8vo. price 2s. 6d. each Nuniber. The Alpine Journal; A Record of Mountain Adventure and Scientific Obser- vation. By Members of the Alpine Club. Edited by Leslie Stephen. Published Quarterly, May 31, Aug. 31, Nov. 30, Feb. 28. 8vo. price Is. Gel. each Number. Knowledge for the Young. TheStepping Stone toKnowledge: Containing upwards of Seven Hundred Questions and Answers on Miscellaneous Subjects, adapted to the capacity of Infant Minds. By a Mother. New Edition, enlarged and improved. 18mo. price Is. The Stepping Stone to Geography: Containing several Hundred Questions and Answers on Geographical Subjects. 18mo. Is. The Stepping Stone to English History: Containing several Hundred Questions and Answers on the History of England. Is. The Stepping Stone to Bible Know- ledge : Containing several Himdred Ques- tions and Answers on the Old and New Testaments. 18mo. Is. The Stepping Stone to Biography: Containing several Himdred Questions and Answers on the Lives of Eminent Men and Women. 18mo. Is. Second Series of the Stepping Stone to Knowledge: containing upwards of Eight Hundred Questions and Answers on Miscellaneous Subjects not contained in the First Series. 18mo. ls. The Stepping Stone to French Pronun- ciation and Conversation : Containing seve- ral Hundred Questions and Answers. By Mr. P. Sadler. 18mo. Is. The Stepping Stone to English Gram- mar : Containing several Hundred Questions and Answers on English Grammar. By Mr. P. Sadler. 18mo. Is. The Stepping Stone to Hatural History: Vertebrate or Backboned Animals. Part I. Mammalia ; Part II. Birds, Rep- tiles, Fishes. 18mo. Is. each Part.