416 the household cookery-book. 903. Arrowroot-‘souffle’. Dilute four or five tablespoonfuls of arrowroot with a glassful of cold milk ; pass the preparation, through a sieve, into a stewpan ; add to it a grain of salt, four ounces of sugar, some lemon-zest or vanilla, and a piece of butter; stir the preparation on the fire, to obtain a smooth batter; reduce it for a few minutes, and pour it into another stewpan; remove the vanilla, and introduce into it five or six yolks of eggs i when the preparation has cooled, mix into it four whipped whites of eggs, as well as two or three tablespoonfuls of whipped cream ; pour the pre- paration into a buttered ‘souffle’-dish (see draw. 302), push it into a slack oven, and bake it for twenty-five minutes; when it is taken out, sprinkle it over with sugar, and immediately serve it. 904. Green-gooseberries with cream. Pluck, and let dissolve on the fire, a few handfuls of green-goose- berries, yet green, but already large; pass them through a sieve. Pour then this puree into a sugar-pan, add to it half its volume of sugar, let it reduce to the degree of a common marmalade; it must remain of a light green shade; pour it out then into a pie-dish, smoothe its surface, and let it cool; then mask it with a little whipped cream, sweetened and perfumed with orange or lemon-zest. 905. Pancakes with preserves. Put into a kitchen-basin six ounces of flour, a grain of salt, and four tablespoonfuls of powder-sugar ; mix into the flour (by the aid of a spoon) a quarter of a pound of melted butter, five or six whole eggs, then four gills of milk; add to it a little grated zest: the paste must be smooth and light; try it, and rectify it if necessary. Warm two little pancake-pans, moisten the bottom, with the aid of a paste-brush, dipped into melted and clarified butter; pour into each of the pans two spoonfuls of paste, which spread over all the surface of the pan, so as to obtain a round and thin ‘crepe’; as soon as the paste has got firm, turn it; a few moments after, slip it, or turn it over on a