TRUFFLES, MORTLS, MUSHROOMS. 3g7 834. Truffles, Italian way. Take six large raw well cleansed truffles already plucked ; mince them? put them into a frying-pan with oil, and butter ; season them, add to them a clove of garlic; let them fry on a slow fire, tossing them; when they are well warmed, moisten them with half a glassful of madeira-wine, and a little melted glaze; boil them for three or four minutes, then take them off the fire ; thicken the liquid with a little kneaded-butter, and at the same time a little bit of anchovy-butter; give the sauce but one bubbling up; remove the garlic, adding a pinch of chopped parsley. Pour the stew on a dish, surrounding it with bread- crusts fried with butter. 835. Crusts with truffles. Cut off a household-loaf some slices of the thickness of about two thirds of an inch ; out of these slices cut then seven or eight crusts in the shape of a semi-heart, round on one side, and pointed on the other; cern them with the point of a small knife, on one surface only, in order to mark the aperture; let them fry with butter in a flat stewpan, open them, empty them, and keep them warm. — Cut in small dice, seven or eight raw and plucked truffles ; place them in a stewpan with butter, season them- warm them on a brisk fire, moisten them with four tablespoonfuls of madeira-wine, and the same of melted glaze; let the liquid reduce to half; immediately take it off the fire, thicken it with a little consistent sauce, finish the stew with a piece of good butter, and with it fill the crusts. Draw. 283. 836. Morils with butter. Choose fresh and good morils, trim the end of the stems, split the buttons crossways in order to wash them well; plunge them into soiling, and acidulated water, immediately drain them; then put them into a stewpan with butter, and the juice of a lemon; cover them, let the liquid boil till it be completely reduced ; at this degree the morils s oidd prove done. — Morils prepared thus may be served with any sauce whatever, and are served either as a garnish, or as a vegetable.