THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 366 789. Lark-pie, in a dish. Cut off the paws, and the neck, of a score of singed larks ; remove the gizzard; put them into a frying-pan with some butter, and some thin slices of streaky-bacon, or ot ham ; season them, let them fry on a brisk fire for five or six minutes, drain them on a dish ; pour a little gravy into the pan; let it boil for two minutes, thicken it with a little sauce, or simply with some kneaded-butter, and pour it over the larks. Mask the bottom of a pie-dish with a few thin slices of beef or veal, season them, and on these arrange the larks; baste them with the sauce; when this is cooled, cover the pie, proceeding as directed, ait. 531. 790. Larks with rice. Pluck two dozen larks, singe them, draw them, put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter; let them fry quickly for seven or eight minutes ; then drain them on a dish, leaving the tat in the stewpan. Cut in dice six ounces of raw ham, put it into the stewpan contain- ing the fat, let them fry for a few moments, add to them two glassiuls ot rice picked, but not washed; a few moments after, moisten the rice with four or five tablespoonfuls of broth, let the liquid boil; five minutes after, add to it the larks, a little pinch of powder-pimento, a small bunch of parsley garnished with aromatics, and two tomatas peeled, treed ot their seed, and chopped; cover the stewpan, remove it back to the side ot the fire; when the rice is done, dish it up with the larks, having removed the bunch. 791. Roast quails. Singe six quails, draw them, put their livers back into the body, pieice them near the legs with a small skewer, alternating each of them with a small slice of bread cut off the crumb ; fix the skewer on a spit by both its ends ; butter the quails with the paste-brush, let them roast at a good fire, basting them : ten minutes will do ; salt them, take them off the spit, serve them on a hot dish ; pour over them the fat of the dnppmg-pan, and surround them with cut lemons.