THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 344 744. Hare with ‘nouilles’. Take the cooked meat of a hare, trim it of its skin and sinews, cut it up in small dice, which put into a kitchen-basin, and mix with halt their volume of chopped mushrooms. — Chop a small onion, let it fry with butter, without allowing it to take color, sprinkle over a pinch ot flour, gradually moisten it with a little gravy; stir the sauce until ebullition; boil it for seven or eight minutes ; then add to it the hare- ‘salpicon’, introduce it into the sauce, season it with salt, and a pinch of cayenne- pepper ; take it off the tire. Boil in salted water some handfuls of minced ‘nouilles’ ; when they are drained, put them back into the stewpan, season them with nutmeg and rasped parmesan, pour over a little melted butter; pour halt ot these ‘nouilles’ on a dish, form a hollow in their centre, place into this hollow the hare-‘salpicon’, which mask with the remainder of the ‘nouilles’; sprinkle over parmesan-cheese, moisten with butter, glaze with the salamander, and serve. 745. Omelet with liare’s-blood. • \ Take the blood of two hares, kept in a liquid state by the aid ot the juice of a lemon, or a drop of vinegar. — Break ten eggs into a basin, season them with salt and pepper, add to them a pinch ot shalot, of chives, and of parsley, all ot which chopped. Beat the eggs with a whip for two minutes, introduce into them two or three tablespoonfuls ot raw cream, at the same time with the hare’s blood. Let melt in a frying-pan four to six ounces ot good butter; when it has become warm, beat the preparation quickly, and pour it into the pan; stir the omelet with a spoon, till it be nearly thickened, observing to keep it a little firm, of the same dimension as the pan, that is, flat and round ; as soon as it has set, turn it with the aid of a plate, taking care to drain the butter beforehand, which ought to be plentiful, and must, be brought back into the pan at the same time with the omelet. Keep the pan then at the entrance of the oven, in order to let the omelet simmer in its tat tor seven or eight minutes, then slip it on a lound dish, without folding it.