the household cookery-book. 96 tender leaves. Cut in thin dice half a pound of bacon; put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, and a chopped onion, which iry unt ST a hue yellow color; add to it the minced onions; ten minutes after'’ moisten them with four or five quarts of broth ; let the hquid ,o> five minutes after, mix in it a few handfuls of rice, being neither washed nor blanched; cover the stewpan. When the rice is pinch of pepper, and pour it into the tureen. Serve separately a plate grated parmesan. 234 Harley-soup with vegetables. - Melt a piece ot butter , mix into it four to six ounces of best pearl-barley, of fine grain ; let this barley C tto minutes, moisten it with half broth and half water ; let the liquid boil, remove it back to the side of the fire; boil the barley, keeping tlil stewpan on a very slow fire, adding to it from time to time a little broth. On the other hand, cut in little dice the red carrots a few celery-roots, and the white part of a leek. Fry these r e tables in a stewpan with butter, then boil them on a moderate hi. wit little broth and a pinch of sugar. The barley being done, lighten it to th decree requisite, with broth ; add to it the vegetables, let it boil skim . s 2Ten tUen it with a liaison of five yolks of eggs, and serve the soup. 235 Milk-soup with spun-eggs. - Pour three pints of milk into a n , g riippG of cinnamon, and a handful of sugai, tinned stewpan ; add it a piece of c nm ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ I i "i. ivryii then remove it back to tne >- let ,t ho 1, then ren them with a 5p0on ; add to them three eggs into a■ kitehenb ^ ^ rfme]ted butter, so as to obtain tablespoontnls > nrenaration Choose a small colander a smooth flowingt Twpa„ holding the milk; pour the ST the fire, keep it covered for ten minutes, but free of all ebullition ; then serve the soup. _ / ^ \ Mplt four ounces ot butter m a stew - 236. Bread-soup (panada). - Melt tom our . 11 o lnnrlful of bread-crumb, which ny, snnn 0 pan ; when wain., add to it a han broth; stir it, hut without allowing it to take eoloi , then