Draw. 205. BUTCHER’S MEAT. - VEAL-‘GREN ADINS’, LIVER. 275 615. Veal-‘grenad.ins’, with tomata-sauce. Trim a cushion of veal; cut off the meat, transversally, seven or ui°'ht slices, being about a third of an inch thick, two or three inches ong, and four inches wide; slightly moisten them, beat them with the •hopper, in order to diminish their thickness, and break the sinews of lie meat. Trim these slices to an oblong shape, in the style represented jy the drawing 205 ; lard them on one side with thin fillets of bacon; season, and range them in a saute-pan, previously spread with trimmings of bacon, minced carrot, and onion. Moisten them just to height, with broth, of which the fat has not been skimmed ; set the stewpan on the fire, let the liquid reduce to glaze; again moisten them, and finish boiling them, short of moisture, glazing them to a nice color ; drain, and dish them in a circle, pour over their cooking-stock, which is passed through a sieve, and skimmed; serve separately a tomata-sauce (see art. 195). 616. Calf’s liver, with fine-herbs. Transversally cut, off a good calf’s liver, seven or eight slices a third of an inch thick; season and flour them. Let them fry with butter, turning them; when their interior has well set, without their being dry, remove them on to a dish ; then put them into the stewpan with four table- spoonfuls of chopped onion and slialot, let them fry, without allowing them to take color; add to them twice their volume of mushrooms, cut in small dice, let the moisture of the mushrooms evaporate ; then moisten the fine-herbs with thickened gravy, so as to get a light sauce; stir this sauce on the fire until ebullition, add to it two spoonfuls of cooked ham, and two truffles, all being chopped ; let it reduce for two minutes, finish it with a little chopped parsley, and a pinch of pepper; add the liver, let it simmer for five minutes, and serve. 617. Calf’s liver with butter. Take a good calf’s liver, and out of it cut transversally seven or eight slices of the thickness of a third of an inch ; trim these slices to an equal shape, season them with salt, pepper, and spices. — Melt six ounces of butter, pour it into a flat stewpan; range the slices side by 18*