266 TIJE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK tablespoon, let these parts be of the size of an egg ; drop these pieces on the floured table, roll them with the hand, giving them a long shape; flatten them with the blade of the knife, so as to give them an oblong- shape (see the draw. 196); dip them into beaten eggs, breadcrumb them, and fry them in a flat stewpan with butter; when done, drain, and dish them in a circle; All the centre with a garnish of minced mushrooms. 596. Aspic of veal-sweetbreads. Boil two or three sweetbreads, keeping them of a nice white, and not over-done ; let them cool in their own cooking-stock; then cut them into slices on their thick side; correctly trim these slices, place them on a dish, add to them some truffle-slices, and the same of rounds of pickled tongue. — Place a cylinder-mould in a basin with pounded ice all round and inside the cylinder; at the bottom of the mould let set a layer of aspic- jelly, then symmetrically dish a part of the slices of sweetbread, alternated by rounds of truffles, and rounds of pickled tongue, cover them with a layer of aspic-jelly, which let set, and then recommence the operation. When the mould is full, cover it with a plate; place on this plate some pounded ice, let the aspic-jelly set for full an hour. At serving-time, dip the mould quickly into warm water, immediately take it out again, wipe it, and turn the aspic-jelly out on a cold dish. 597. Glazed veal-scollops. Trim two line minion-fillets of veal, remove their sinewy skin; transversally divide the meat in slices ot the thickness ot a third of an inch ; beat them with the handle ot a knite, in order to get them thin; season, and fry them in a large and thin stewpan, with butter; when done, drain their butter, moisten them with two or three tablespoontuls of good gravy ; let the gravy reduce to glaze, then baste them with wine and a little tomata-sauce; let the liquid boil, and take it off the the. On the other hand, prepare a risotto with twelve ounces ot rice; finish it with butter and parmesan, mind keeping it rather consistent. At serving-time, pour the rice into a buttered border-mould , three minutes after, turn the rice out on a dish, and dish the scollops in the eentie, pour over the sauce.