THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 292 mince to high relish with salt and mixed spices pound it, put it into a kitchen-basin, add to it some plucked raw truffles, cut in dice or fillets, a piece of cooked and cut pickled tongue (taken from the tip), half a pound of cooked bacon, also cut; and some whole swelled pistachioes. Spread the turkey on the table with its open side uppermost; season the meat, then spread the force-meat in layers on the surface, alternating these layers with the fillets of the turkey’s breast. Gather the ‘galantine’, giving it a round and long shape, sew up its skin, wrap it up in a napkin, pressing it close 5 tie it with thread on both its extremities, then round its thickness, in the manner represented by the drawing. Place it in a long stewpan, surround it with vegetables, some fresh swarths, the bones of the turkey, and last of all, two blanched and cut calf’s feet; moisten it then to height with fresh broth, the fat of which has not been skimmed. Boil the ‘galantine’ for two hours on a slow fire 5 as soon as it is drained, unwrap it, wrap it up anew, trim it, glaze it with the paste- brush, dish, and surround it with aspic-jelly, either chopped, or else cut in ‘croutons’. — This aspic-jelly, is prepared with the cooking-stock of the turkey, proceeding according to the method prescribed, art. 130. — This ‘galantine’ may be served in slices. 649. Devild leg of turkey. Chisel slightly both the cold legs of a cooked turkey; sprinkle over some salt, and plenty of pepper; roll them in a little good mustard, diluted with some oil; let them broil at a moderate fire for a quarter of an hour, turning and basting them ; serve them on a hot dish with a little good gravy on the bottom. 650. Studded turkey, garnished. Choose a good small turkey ; cut off the paws at the joints, fill the stomach with a bread-crumb stuffing ; truss it, singe it in order to stiffen its meat; stud the meat, on the fillets and the legs, with squares of raw * jt is especially in the preparation of ‘galantines’, and ot cold-pies, that really good and well mixed spice is indispensable.