150 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKEliY-BOOK. 355. Small cases of soft-roes, with crayfish-‘coulis’. Soak and blanch some fine soft-roes of carp or mackerel, drain them on a cloth, in order to spunge them. Fry in a saute-pan a few spoonfuls of fine-herbs, thicken them with a little glaze, add to them the soft-roes, which roll up in this seasoning, and with them, fill a dozen oiled small cases lined with a light layer of force-meat; immediately range these cases on a baking-sheet, keep them at the entrance of the oven for a few minutes. At serving-time, mask them with a little reduced white-sauce, finish it with apiece of cray- fish-butter ; dish the small cases on a folded napkin. 356. Small cases of oysters. Blanch five or six dozen oysters with a little white wine, drain them, beard, and place them in a saute-pan; thicken them with a little reduced yellow - sauce, finished with crayfish - butter; with this garnish fill the paper-cases, previously oiled; mask the top with a thin layer of bread- crumb, fried in butter ; immediately dish the cases on a folded napkin. 357. Shells of lamb-sweetbreads. ' Cut in dice fifteen lamb-sweetbreads, not too much boiled, but cold; mix them with a third their volume of cooked mushrooms ; keep the ‘sal- picon covered. Pour into a stewpan some spoonfuls of good ‘bechamel’- sauce, let it reduce, gradually introducing into it the cooking-stock of the lamb-sweetbreads, so as to get a half brown-sauce; as soon as it is very firm, and succulent, mix the ‘salpicon’ up with it; immediately take the preparation off the fire, and with it, fill large table - shells; smoothe the preparation on the top, sprinkle over a little bread-crumb, pour over a little melted butter, let it slightly gratinate in a quick oven, or else with a red-hot shovel, and serve them. 358. Shells with lobster. Choose ten table-shells of equal shape, but not too large. Cut up in a ^salpicon’ the cooked meat of a lobster, place it in a stewpan, mix up with it half its volume of mushrooms, cooked, and cut up like the lobster.