THE HOUSEHOLD COOKEIIY-LOOK. 72 reduce, stirring it, and gradually adding two tablespoonfuls of oyster- liquor, and the same of mushroom - liquor; then two gills of good red Bordcaux-wine, previously boiled in an untinned copper-skillet; last of all, add to the sauce two tablespoonfuls of madeira-wine, and a pinch of cayenne-pepper; pass it through a sieve, and sene. 179. How to prepare Perigueux-sauce. — Mince a small onion, put it into a stewpan with a slialot, three ounces of raw ham cut in dice, and a little piece of butter; let them fry very lightly, then moisten them with half a glassful of madeira ; add some truffle-trimmings, and a garnished bunch. Let the liquid reduce to half; pass it through a sieve, mix into it a glassful and a half of brown-sauce ; let the sauce boil, add to it four or five.spoonfuls of raw truffles, either cut in dice or chopped; three minutes after, serve it. 180. How to prepare ‘Colbert*-sauce. — Let boil about two gills of meat-o-laze, immediately remove it back, gradually introduce into u a quarter of a pound of butter, divided in little bits. Finish the sauce with the juice of two lemons, and a pinch of chopped parsley. 181. How to prepare ‘Chautcaubi*ian<r- sauce. — Put into a stewpan two tablespoonfuls of chopped slialdts, moisten them with half a glassful of white wine, and let them boil, reducing the liquid two-thirds; then add the same quantity of good melted glaze; at the first bubbling, take the stewpan off the fire, in order to introduce into the liquid (taking but little quantities at a time, and stirring with a spoon) a quarter m a pound of butter, previously seasoned with salt and pepper, nnxe wlt 1 ^ pinch of chopped taragon-leaves. Thicken the. sauce, without allowing i to boil. 182 How to prepare celery-sauce. - Pluck one or two sticks or roots of celery, out them in bolls, with the aid of a good vegetable-scooft let them blanch in salted water; spunge them on a cloth let them >y with butter, in order to give them a nice color ; now season them, epnnklc over a pinch of sugar, moisten them with broth let them l>> S‘lf ® them ; at serving-time, mix into the vegetables the cooking-stock ot the