THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 356 bacon; with this preparation till the body of the pheasant; truss it with its paws brought back, lard it with bacon on the two fillets, and on the legs; place it in a stewpan, spread with remains of ham and bacon, as well as with some minced vegetables; slightly salt them, add to them a bunch of aromatics ; moisten to the height of the legs with broth and white wine; let the liquid reduce to half; remove the stewpan back on a slow fire with hot ashes on the lid, or else at the entrance of the oven; boil it quite gently, repeatedly pouring on its own cooking-stock. — At serving-time, moisten the pheasant by the aid of the paste-brush dipped into melted glaze; let it take color; then drain it, untruss it, and place it on a chestnut-puree, disposed on the centre of a dish; pass the cook- ing-stock through a sieve, skim off its fat, and with it, moisten the pheasant. 768. Pheasant-mince. Take the meat of a cooked pheasant, remove its skin, cut it into slices, and range them in a middling-sized stewpan ; keep them covered. Break up the bones, put them also into a stewpan with minced vegetables, trim- mings of ham, a bunch of parsley garnished with aromatics, a little white wine, and a little broth, in order to prepare a pheasant-extract. — Let fry in a stewpan two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion, add to it two handfuls of raw and chopped mushroom-trimmings ; when the mush- rooms have reduced their moisture, sprinkle over a handful of bread- crumb, moisten them with the extract previously prepared, give the sauce three or four minutes’ ebullition, add to it the pieces of pheasant, warm them without ebullition; add a pinch of pepper, another of chopped parsley, a spoonful of Harvey-sauce, and the juice of a lemon; serve this stew- in a warm dish. 769. Partridges with bread-sauce. Singe and draw two good partridges, prepare a little stuffing with their cooked and chopped livers, a piece of softened bread-crumb pressed out, a pinch of chopped onion and parsley, salt and pepper. ^ it i t n. stuffing fill the partridges; truss, and place them in a stewpan wit