414 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. them in a circle ; place the cut fruits in the hollow of the circle, and on the top a nice hunch of preserved cherries, washed in hot water; mask the fruits and the crusts with the sauce, and serve. 899. Sweetened ‘nouilles’, with lemon-cream. Prepare some paste with six ounces of flour, three yolks of eggs, one spoonful of powder-sugar, a little salt, and five or six spoonfuls of brandy. When the paste is smooth, turn it then like puff-paste, giving it five turns; roll it out thin, distribute it in ribbons, a third of an inch wide, and four or five inches long. Plunge these pieces into hot frying- fat, taking a small quantity at a time; drain them, as soon as they are dry, and have taken a nice color; place them on a long deep dish, moisten them with lemon-cream, prepared thus: Lemon-cream. — Bray in a stewpan six yolks of eggs, add to them nine ounces of powder-sugar; dilute the preparation with a pint and a half of milk, stir it on the fire, without leaving it, so as to prevent any ebullition. A few moments previous to taking the cream off the fire, add to it a piece of lemon-zest; as soon as the cream is thickened to the degree requisite, pour it into a kitchen-basin, passing it through a sieve. — This cream may be served, either cold or warm ; it may be perfumed, either with vanilla, or orange-blossoms, or else with orange-zest. 900. Rice-milk with cinnamon. Wash nine ounces of rice, let it blanch for eight or ten minutes, drain it on a sieve ; put it back again into the stewpan, moisten it, to cover, with warm milk, let it boil, then remove the stewpan back to the side of the fire ; when the moisture is absorbed, again moisten the rice to cover with milk, and thus continue boiling it until it be tender, adding from time to time a little warm milk; slightly sweeten it; two minutes after, place the rice on a deep dish, sprinkle over its surface some powder-sugar, mixed up with powder-cinnamon. — The rice may also be sprinkled over with lemon-sugar, rubbed against the fruit, and grated.