THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK 88 small green-pease, as well as a piece of cauliflover, divided into flowrets, and some white asparagus-heads ; put all into the tureen. At serving-time, mix the glazed vegetables in the jelly-broth, care- fully skim off its fat, pour it into the tureen •219. Jelly-broth, with macaroni. — Whether the macaroni lie thick or thin, it is convenient first of all to boil them in salted water; drain them, cut them transversally in little pieces, kept as equal as possible; plunge these pieces into the jelly-broth, kept boiling at the side of the fire; some minutes after, serve the soup ; at the same time, sending up a plate of grated parmesan. 220 Stomachic jelly-broth. - Put into a stewpan six or eight very fresh yolks of eggs ; add to them a little salt, and a pinch of sugar ; heat them with a whip, then gradually dilute them with boiling good jelly- broth. Serve this jelly-broth with thin slices of broiled biead. 221 Jelly-broth, ‘k la Palestine’. - Prepare two quarts of poultry jelly-hro'tli, winch keep at the side of the fire. - With the aid of a small vegetable - scooper, cut some balls of Jerusalem-artiehokes, which slig i > blanch and glaze them with a little broth; pour them into the soup-tureen. To“t garnish add an equal quantity of rice boiled in broth; mix into the jelly-broth a pinch of sugar, pour it into the tureen. N 222. Julienne-soup, with poached eggs. loi a soup to se for five or six persons, take two or three middling-sized carrots (only t red parts) a middling-sized turnip, a piece of celery-root, ha t a crisped i t the core of a lettuce, some sorrel-leaves, an onion, the white o Slleek. Rasp, peel, or pluck, these vegetables, according to wash and drain them; mince them to ‘julienne (see ait. 61) that , cut them in thin.fillets, about an inch long : carrots, turnips, celery, and leek should all be cut to equal lengths. . . , ’put the onion and leek into a stewpan, with a piece of butte. V r- wi+hnnt allowing them to take color; add the them on a moderate fire, without allowm^ ^ other case, carrots turnips, and celeiy • ? 1 y c .1 „ canots, mini , j When the moisture ot the blanch them separately for a few minutes.