THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY- BOOK. 80 extract; keep the liquid at the side of the tire, for a few minutes, m order to let it set •, pour it then into a flat stewpan, reduce it, stirring it with the spoon • gradually introduce into it two gills of aspic-jelly ; the sauce being done, thicken it with four tablespoonfuls of liquid hare’s blood, lightened with the juice of a lemon, proceeding as for a liaison ; pass it, through a tammy, into a little stewpan, and thicken it on ice, stirring it with the spoon. 207 How to prepare truffled cliaufroix-sauce. - Prepare five gills of brown or white ‘chaufroix’-sauce, thicken it on ice, stirring it; when at the degree requisite, finish it, introducing in it four or live tablespoon- fuls of black truffles, cooked in wine, and chopped very fine. 208. How to prepare ravigote chaufroix-sauce. - Blanch for two minutes a large handful of herbs composed of leaves of taragon, parsley, pimpernel, chervil, and chives; when these herbs are drained press out their moisture carefully, in order to chop them. - On the othei hand, chop four fillets of anchovy, with two tablespoonfuls of capers, mat™ up with the herbs, and introduce them together into a white chaufroix- sauce, reduced to the degree requisite; mix into the latter a pinch of spinach-green, thicken it on ice, stirring it, 209 How to prepare white chanfroix-sauce. — Pour into a saute- pan seven or eight gills of white-sauce, let it reduce, gradually adding to it two gills of good poultry-stock. The sauce being well thickened, mix it with three gills of aspic-jelly ; let it boil for a lew moments more; pass it through a tammy, to thicken it on ice, stirring it with a spoon. 210. How to prepare tartar cliaufroix-sauce - Prepare a white ‘chauiroix’-sauce, proceeding according to the method prescribed art. 209, stir it with the aid of a spoon, till its greatest heat he evaporated, sti, tlien on lee, in order to thicken it; when at the degree requisite, add to it two tablespoonfuls of good vinegar, two spoonfuls of chopped pa.si y and taragon leaves, then two spoonfuls of grated horseradish - root, chopped fine.