THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. minutes ; now moisten the foAvl with a large glassful ot white wine; at the first bubbling, remove the stock-pot back on hot ashes, surrounding it just to half its height; cover it with a common plate, half-filled with hot water: during three or four hours the liquid must only simmei ; two hours after, add to the fowl fifteen small onions, and a laigc canot cut up, both of which raw; keep up the ebullition at the same degree, until the vegetables and fowl are done ; then drain the fowl, untruss it, dish it up with the vegetables all round ; carefully skim the fat off the cooking-stock, pour it on the dish, passing it through a sieve. 705. Stock-pot fowl, with flne-lierbs. Take a fowl boiled in the stock-pot; drain it, divide it into six pieces; which range in a flat stewpan. — Let fry, in a stewpan with butter, three tablespoonfuls of chopped onions, and shalots; add to them two handfuls of dry mushrooms previously softened, and chopped, then a hunch of parsley garnished with aromatics; when the mushrooms have reduced all their moisture, sprinkle over a pinch of flour, moisten them with a little white wine, and gravy; stir the sauce until ebullition, then remove it back to the side of the fire; ten minutes after, skim its fat, pour it on the poultry cut up; add to it a few spoonfuls of cooked lean ham, or of pickled tongue cut in small dice ; let the stew simmer for ten minutes; finish it with a pinch of pepper, the juice of a lemon, and with chopped parsley; dish it up, and serve. 706. Stock-pot fowl, in marinade. Boil a good fowl in the broth of the stock-pot; let it half-cool, then divide it in four pieces; remove the skin and bones as much as possible, then again divide every one of the pieces in two; put them into a kitchen- basin, season them, sprinkle over some chopped parsley, moisten them with the juice of two lemons, let them macerate thus for half an hour. Twelve minutes previous to serving them, dip the pieces one by one into some frying-paste, in order to plunge them in plenty of hot frying- fat ; when the paste is dry, and of a nice color, drain the pieces of fowl, sprinkle over a little salt, dish them up.