THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 141. How to prepare bechamel-sauce. — Melt a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan ; add to it a quarter ol a pound of flour; and three ounces of raw ham, cut in dice; fry the flour for ten minutes on a mode- rate tire, stirring it, and without allowing it to take color ; take it off the tire, gradually dilute it with warm milk, but avoiding to make it grainy, the sauce must remain consistent. Let it boil without leaving it, then remove it back to the side of the tire; add to it a bunch of parsley mixed with a bay-leaf, some peppercorns, and two small onions. Boil the sauce for twenty minutes ; pass it then through a sieve into another stewpan; let it reduce on a brisk tire, stirring it, and gradually introducing into it some spoonfuls of raw cream. When the sauce is of good taste and creamy, take it off the fire. 142. How to prepare melted-butter. — Put into a stewpan six ounces of good butter, let it melt, take it off the fire, let it settle ; five or six minutes after, clarify it in a stewpan, without pouring out the creamy parts left at the bottom ; warm the butter, add to it a little salt, and a little chopped parsley, pour it in a warm sauceboat. 143. How to prepare brown-butter. — Pour into a stewpan half a glassful of vinegar, to which add one bay-leaf, and then let reduce to half. On the other hand, melt half a pound of butter in a skillet; wann it until beginning to get brown, but avoid burning it; immediately take it off the fire, mix into it a pinch of salt, a pinch of pepper, and a little chopped parsley; gently pour the liquid into the stewpan containing the vinegar, let it boil, and seive. 144 How to prepare housekeepers - sauce. — Prepare a butter- sat.ce, thicken it with two yolks of eggs, finish it with a piece of house- keeper’s-butter, that is, butter mixed up with a pinch of parsley, nutmeg, and some lemon-juice. 145 How to prepare horseradish-sauce, with orange. — Peel six apples, mince them, put them into a stewpan, with a little water and sugar, and let them boil on a brisk fire; their moisture reduced', take the