405 VEGETABLES. — SOUR-CROUT, BEETROOT. wooden round, which press down with stones: this operation must be done in the cellar. As soon as the fermentation of the crout has begun; the vegetable., by this process, is covered with water it has given out; it is convenient therefore to remove this water, as it augments. After the lapse of seven or eight days, the fermentation having abated, and the liquid diminished, it is replaced by common souse, boiled and cooled. — It is well to observe, that sour-crout, while in the cask, must be kept under pressure of a weight, sufficient to make its moisture continually run out: sour-crout can be cooked and eaten, four or five weeks after being placed in the cask. Previous to boiling sour-crout, it must be well drained ; then put it into a stewpan or an earthen vessel, with a large onion, a large carrot, and a piece of streaky-bacon or raw ham; boil it for three or four hours, on a very slow fire, keeping the stewpan well closed : the sour-crout being done, all the liquid should be evaporated. Now remove the meat, as well as the onion and carrot, thicken the sour-crout with a little sauce, or a piece of kneaded-butter ; serve it, either as a garnish, or else with the bacon carved. 885. Macerated beetroots. Boil a few beetroots, peel them, mince them, range them in a jug, by layers, alternating with minced horseradish - root; add to them a few peppercorns, cover them up with vinegar. — These beetroots are employed as a garnish for cooked salads. 886. Black plums, preserved in vinegar. Choose the plums not too ripe, prick them with a fork, and range them in a jug, with cinnamon, cloves, and orange-zest; cover them up with vinegar, and let them macerate. Twenty-four hours after, pour the 's inegar into a skillet, in order to let it boil for ten minutes on a quick fire; let it cool, and again pour it over the fruit. After the lapse of twenty-four hours, repeat this operation, then let the vinegar boil with sugar (six ounces to a quart of liquid), and pour it over the fruit. When