883 QUISCHE, LENT-PATTIES, NOUILLES, CROQUETTES, RISOT. empty them, and keep them warm. — Break into a basin fifteen or sixteen fresh eggs, season them with salt and a pinch of nutmeg; beat them up quickly for a few minutes. Peel three raw truffles, cut them into small dice, which place in a stewpan with butter; season, and let them warm ; then add to them the beaten eggs, as well as a piece of butter divided in little bits; stir the preparation, with a spoon, on the fire, until Draw. 282. it be thickened; mix up with it a few tablespoonfuls of cream or ‘bechamel’- sauce; take it off the fire; fill the patties, place their cover on their top, and dish them up. 825. ‘Nouilles’, with parmesan. Prepare some ‘nouille’- paste with twelve ounces of flour, five whole eggs, a little salt, and a little tepid water; keep the paste stiff, let it rest for ten minutes; divide it then into two or three parts, which roll out, one after the other, to the shape of a thin square (using the rolling- pin) ; largely sprinkle over the paste some fine flour, fold the paste up several times, then cut it up into fine strings. — Seven or eight minutes previous to serving, plunge the ‘nouilles’ into a stewpan of boiling water, salted but a little; give the liquid three minutes’ vigorous ebullition, then drain the ‘nouilles’ on a sieve without refreshing them ; pour them into a saute-pan, introduce into them (off the fire, and with the aid of a fork) six ounces of fresh butter divided in little bits, and at the same time tour ounces of grated parmesan ; serve them in a deep dish, pour over them some good beef-gravy, mixed with a little tomata-sauce. 826. ‘Nouilles’-croquettes. Boil a pound, and a quarter, of minced ‘nouilles’ (see art. 825); drain them quickly, place them in a stewpan, season them, introduce into them half a pound of butter, then three or four handfuls of grated parmesan; thicken this preparation with two spoonfuls of reduced ‘bechamel’-sauce, immediately pour it into a small buttered baking-sheet of square shape, smoothe its upper surface, give it the thickness of two thirds of an inch, or of one inch ; cover it ivitli a sheet