THE HOUSEHOLD COOKE MY-BOOK. 348 spoonfuls of good gravy, or melted glaze ; two minutes after, thicken with a piece of kneaded-butter; dissolve the butter by stirring ; at the first bubbling, draw the sauce off the fire, remove the bunch, and. add to it a pinch of pepper, a little chopped parsley, and two tablespoonfuls of capers. 752. Blanquette (white-stew) of field-rabbits. Cut into pieces two rabbits, put them into a stewpan with melted butter and two small onions; let them fry, season, and add to them six ounces of raw ham, cut into small squares ; five minutes after, sprinkle over a handful of Hour, moisten them to cover with broth and white wine; stir the liquid until ebullition, add to it a bunch of parsley, garnished with aromatics, and fifteen fresh mushrooms. Boil the meat quickly for seven or eight minutes, in order to let the sauce reduce one third; immediately remove the stewpan back on the side of the fire. At serving- time, skim the fat off the sauce, and thicken it with two yolks of eggs diluted; finish the stew with the juice of a lemon, a pinch ot pepper, and another of chopped parsley ; serve it on a hot dish, removing the bunch. 753. Boiled rabbit. Take two or three well-cleansed rabbits; fasten the legs with small wooden skewers, plunge them into boiling water, salted; add a bunch of aromatics, cook them for forty minutes; drain them, and range them on a dish; mask them with a mince of blanched onions, fried with butter, seasoned, then thickened with a little ‘bechamel’- sauce. Range round the rabbits a circle of slices of streaky-bacon, broiled or fried. 754. Rabbit-pie or tart (tourte). Take the legs, and back, of two good field-rabbits, well cleansed; divide them into middling-sized pieces, remove the bones as much as possible; put the meat into a stewpan with scraped bacon, and six ounces of streaky-bacon or raw ham; let them try on a good fire, stirring them; season them, add some fresh mushrooms cut in pieces; moisten them with a glassful of white wine ; cover the stewpan, let the liquid reduce, take the meat off the fire.