42 the household cookery-book. in a buttered saute-pan, tossed on the fire for some minutes, seasoned with salt, nutmeg, and a pinch of sugar; at the last moment, they are thickened with a little reduced good bechamel - sauce; the ‘macedoine may be served, either as a garnish of large pieces or entrees, or as a vegetable ‘entremets’; in the last case, it must be garnished with cron- tons’ in puff-paste or bread, fried in butter. 78. How to blanch vegetables. — Blanching vegetables, is plunging them into boiling salted water, to boil them more or less long, accoiding to their nature, yet without boiling them too soft. The more difficult the vegetables are to soften, the more must the blanching he prolongs. 79. How to cleanse and boil fresh truffles. - The fresh truffles purchased in the market ore commonly very earthy ; in order to cleanse them, they must be put therefore into water, and nibbed with a brush over the whole surface, but especially in all the cavities. They must e left in water as little time as possible ; when they are drained, take them once more one by one, in order to remove all earthy parts that had resisted the brush, with the point of a small knife. Immediately, as eac i of then, is cleansed, the truffles must be shut up m a stewpan so as better to preserve their aroma. Truffles may be boiled, either peeled, oi with their peel on; if boiled with their peel, they must be placed in a Stewpan not too large ; salt them slightly, and mask them with strips of bacon; then moisten them to nearly their height with white wine: madeira or champagne. Truffles must be boiled in a covered stewpan, and on a brisk fire; yet great care must be taken not to coov tiem oo on nothing being more disagreeable than a truffle overdone ; which loses al its qualities : seven or eight minutes’ ebullition will suffice to b the largest truffles. If the truffles are peeled, they must be boiled with little wine and a little good meat-glaze. 80. How to glaze small onions. - If importance is attachedl to getting the small onions well colored, they must not be blanched t y must only be fried in butter, or lard, and a pinch of sugar; moisten them to height with broth, letting this reduce to glaze. But if the small onions