THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 110 these chickens are clone, drain them, remove their white meat, which pound ; when it is converted to paste, dilute it with six yolks of eggs, and two gills of raw cream ; season the preparation with a pinch of sugar, and another of nutmeg ; then pass it through a tammy into another stewpan ; heat it, and thicken it with the cream-poultry preparation ; add a piece of fine butter, and a garnish of boiled green-pease. 270. Thrush-puree, with rice. — Singe and draw eight thrushes, let them fry in a stewpan with a piece of butter, season them ; let them cool, pound them with four tablespoonfuls of rice, boiled with broth: add three raw yolks of eggs. — Prepare a light ‘roux , without allowing it to take color (see art. 135), dilute it with good broth, without making it grainy ; let the liquid boil, stirring it, then remove it back to the side of the fire ; forty minutes after, skim off the fat. Now take a small part of it, in order to dilute the pounded preparation, which then pass through a tammy, mix in the soup, and serve. 271. Pheasant-puree, with macaroni. Remove the skin from some pieces of cooked pheasants; pound the meat with nearly the same quantity of rice, boiled with broth; pass all together through a tammy. — With three ounces of butter, and three ounces of flour, prepare a little 'roux’ {see art. 135), without allowing it to take color; stir the liquid on the fire till ebullition, remove it back to the side of the fire, so as to have it boil partially only ; add to it the bones of pheasant, some tiesli 'vege- tables, and a few aromatics. Twenty-five minutes after, skim off the tat, pass it through a sieve, and with it, dilute the puree ; put the soup back into the stewpan, passing it again ; let it boil, season it, and pour it into the tureen ; add to it a garnish of boiled large macaroni cut regularly. - This soup may be garnished with game-quenelles or small vegetables. 272. Leveret-puree, with rice. — Roast in the oven the legs and shoulders of a young hare ; remove the meat, pound it with a piece of butter, and two spoonfuls of cold sauce; season it, and pass it through a sieve. — Prepare two quarts of game soup-stock (see art. 240), keep it at the side of the fire for twenty-five minutes ; then skim off its fat, and