98 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 241. 8oup with flue paste. — The Italian pastes must be chosen line, white, and above all fresh ; for they turn sour as they grow old. Fine paste, is generally served in clear broth or jelly-broth • yet there is no objection to serving them with thickened soups, purees, and creams; nevertheless, it is well to observe, that these soups must be but slightly thickened. In either case, the paste must be blanched in salted water, previous to being mixed in the soup ; if they are served with broth, they can be nothing else but slightly blanched, as they can finish cooking in the liquid ; but if served in a thickened soup, they must be done pre- viously. 242. Rice-soil]!, with pease. - Welt a piece of good butter in a stew- pan ; add to it one onion and a leek, both of which chopped ; fry them to a tine color; add a pound of carefully plucked rice, not washed ; try it for one minute, and moisten it with four quarts of warm water; turn the liquid until starting to ebullition, remove it back to the side ot the fire; add to it four cloves, the salt requisite, and a bunch ot parsley ; boil t le soup gently ; ten minutes after, add to it half a pint of fresh tender green- pease. The rice and green-pease being done to the degree requisite, remove the bunch, as well as the cloves ; introduce into the soup a piece of good butter, pour it into the tureen. - This soup must be rather consistent. 243. Fisherman’s „ rice-soup. — Scald four good tomatas in order to remove their skin ; split them in the middle, press out their seed ; cut the pulp in small dice, which put into a stewpan with hsh-brotl,; set the stewpan on the lire, at the first bubbling add to the liquid some handful* of rice, not being washed ; season the soup ; as soon as the nee is nea. y done add to it two dozen small raw oysters freed ot their she 1, as we as a few spoonfuls of blanched green-pease; give the liquid two babblings, and pour it then into the tiu een. 244 Nouilles-sonp. - Keep in ebullition two quarts of jelly-broth; ten minutes previous to serving, mix up with it a few spoonfuls o ‘nouilles’ shred into rather thick ‘julienne’, blanched and well five minutes after, thicken the soup with a liaison ot hve yolks eBg,,