THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 174 it, and let it drain well, then slip it on a dish, masked with a wooden or china-bottom all pierced with holes (see drawing 149)', and covered with a napkin; surround the fish with fresh parsley, serve separately a caper-sauce (see art. 152). 410. Turbot with wine. Draw a small white, fat turbot, wash and spunge it well ; cut off its fins, make an incision on its black side, down all the length of the back- bone. — Butter largely a baking-sheet, sprinkle over the bottom two tablespoonfuls of onions, and two handfuls of fresh mushroom, both of which chopped; place the turbot on these fine-herbs, with the white side uppermost, season it, moisten it with two glassfuls of white wine ; cover it with a buttered paper, push it into a slack oven, bake it quite gent y for nearly an hour, pouring over its own cooking-stock. — The fish being taken out of the oven, remove it with the aid of the lid of any stewpan, and dish it; add to the cooking-stock a little wine, thicken it then with a piece of kneaded-butter; give the sauce a few bubblmgs up, finish it with the juice of a lemon, a pinch of parsley, a large piece of good butter; pour it immediately on the turbot. 411. ‘Gratin’ of salmon with oysters. Cut fifteen raw scollops of salmon, trim them, season, and dish them up in a circle, on a layer offish force-meat, spread on the bottom of a dish; mask these scollops then with a layer of brown-sauce, which is reduced, and nearly cold; sprinkle over the sauce some bread-crumb, and push the dish into a slack oven ; twenty minutes after, lemoic 1 , garnish the centre of the circle with a garnish of oysters, which are poached, thickened with a little white-sauce, and finished with a little crayfish-butter. 412. Whole salmon, Bordeaux-sauce. Choose a salmon proportionate to the number of guests; scale it, draw it, making a little incision in the belly ; truss its head, set it on ic drainer of a fish-kettle, moisten it to cover with court-bouillon, eithei