462 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. Pass through a sieve fifteen good, quite ripe apricots. Take two glassfuls of this puree, place it in a kitchen-basin, and introduce into it two glassfuls of sugar; dilute the preparation with the almond-milk ; add to it a few bits of zest, and the juice of three oranges ; ten minutes after, pass the preparation through a sieve; try a small part of it in the ice- box, previous to glazing it. When the ice has set, introduce into it two gills of whipped cream, sweetened, and perfumed with orange; but the cream must only be introduced, after having mixed into it a small part of the ice ; work it for a few minutes more. — At serving-time, take the ‘plombiere’ with a spoon, pile it up, in the shape of a rock, on a folded napkin. 999. ‘Parfait’ of the cooks. Whip eight or nine yolks of eggs, with two handfuls of sugar; when the preparation is frothy, dilute it with a glassful of warm coffee- infusion; pass the liquid, through a sieve, into a stewpan, which set on the fire; stir the liquid, until it be thickened, but without allowing it to boil; then pour it into a little copper-basin, and whip it on ice. On the other hand, line a cheese-mould with white paper, pack it (see draw. 327) with pounded and salted ice. When the coffee-preparation is quite frothy, mix it with an equal quantity of whipped cream, which is firm and well drained; immediately pour the preparation into the packed mould, but by degrees only, so as not to leave any free space. Cover the mould, first with a round of paper, then with its lid ; spread over the lid, a thick layer of salted ice. Pack the preparation for an hour and a half. In summer-time, it is necessary to pack the mould again, after the lapse of an hour, and to set it fast for a quarter of an hour more. — At serving-time, dip the mould into cold water, wipe it, and turn the ‘parfait’ out on a folded napkin. 1000. Almond -‘plombiere’, garnished with tartlets. Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds (see art. 70), mixed with a few bitter ones ; pound them, add to them a handful of sugar, a little