52 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. together, till they form a smooth and compact body; then, add the butter in little bits, and without ceasing to pound. A few minutes a ter, pass the force-meat through a sieve. - The mortar represented by the drawing, is in marble, framed in a block of wood, and furnished with a long-handled pestle; which is kept upright by the aid of an iron staple feed into the wall, and the ring of which ought to be wrapped round in linen : this pestle is more convenient, and less fatiguing than the double- headed one, which is also shewn in the drawing. 116 Howto prepare veal-force-meat. * — This force-meat is used for borders, or supports, on which are dished certain warm entrees and Proportions: a pound of veal, either cushion or minion-fillets, half a pound of panada, half a pound of butter, two yolks of eggs, one whole egg, two tablespoonfuls of sauce, salt and spices. Trim the meat, cut it into large dice, which chop and pound. As soon as converted into paste, add to it the panada (a ittle of i at a time) then the butter, or its equivalent of cooked call s udder, and at last .go-o-s one by one; pound the force-meat quickly, for ten minutes moie, season it, pass it through a sieve, immediately put it into a lotchen-basnv work it with a spoon for five minutes, introducing gradually the cooled sauce • then keep it in a cool place, until time to use it In respect to force-meat in general, it is always best to try its con- nevious to usiim it, so as to be able to rectify it, either by nto it a little°sauce, if it proved too firm, or by adding eggs “ pldaf in ease it should be too soft; in which latter case, pounding ,t again is advisable. " in How to prepare poultry force-meat. - Proportions pound of poultry-fillets, half a pound of panada, half a pound of butte,, two £::s:“£:orfi,w,«r sinewy parts, and cut them into large dice; pound them quickly until , Let us, 1„ regard to a„ " —,1 ^"l those called Apices des cummers' being the finest these spices being compounded by a professe coo .