31 ELEMENTARY METHODS. 49. How to prepare decorated quenelles. — Large decorated que- nelles are employed as a garnish, or complement of the garnish, of removes or entrees ; they may be prepared with force-meat of poultry, game, or fish. These quenelles are formed on pieces of buttered white paper ; the shape requisite must be imparted to them by the aid of the blade of a small knife, smoothing the surface carefully. Large quenelles are commonly decorated with truffles or pickled tongue, yet truffles are preferable. The truffle-decoration can be applied to the quenelle, either previous to poaching them or after; in the former case, the details of the decoration are slightly encrusted in the force-meat, after being moistened with albumen : thus the quenelles are plunged into boiling water, but, with the paper whereon they have been formed. If the quenelles are decorated, after being poached, the details of the decoration must simply be applied, but being previously masked, or else moistened on one side with a little soft force-meat, so facilitating their being fixed. Quenelles are poached, without ebullition, in salted water. Draw. 40. Draw. 41. 50. How to parboil eels. — In the first place the eels must be killed; if they are large, hang them up by the head, cern the skin all round the neck underneath the fins, cutting it slightly, so as to be able to seize hold of it; then take it with a cloth, in order to draw it off the body of the fish. As for small eels, after having cerned the skin of the neck, it is sufficient to scald them, and then remove the skin with the aid of a cloth. 51. How to scale and cleanse fish. — Among scale-fish there are none, but sardines and red mullets (rougets), which are not generally scaled if broiled; but there are some species, for instance the sole, from which, instead of scaling them, the skin is removed altogether; it is the same with pike and carp : instead of scaling them, the knife may be slipt between the skin and the scales, which are removed by strips.