40 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 72. How to infuse zest. - The zest of lemon, oranges, and other fruit with peel, is removed by the aid of a small knife, carefully avoiding to take the white pith inside the peel, which is always of a hitter taste. In order to perfume syrup with zest, it is sufficient to let it macerate tor twenty minutes in the liquid, which must be quite cold. Then the syrup is strained. 73 How to filter fruit-inice. — Orange- and lemon-juice are those commonly filtered. They are filtered, either through a china- or glass- funnel, provided with filter-paper; or else, by the aid of paper free of lime braved, washed, converted into paste, then spread in a tlun layei on a sieve. For the filtering of gooseberry-or raspberry-juice m great quantities, a felt straining-bag must be employed, disposed in the manner represented by tlie drawing 59. 74 How to perfume orange- or lemon-sngar. - The best method of perfuming sugar, consists in rubbing the zest of the fruit against a piece of loaf-sugar of rough surface. The surface of the sugar is grated as soon as moistened and colored by the zest. Then the sugar is crushed with the blade of a knife. 75 How to turn and boil mushrooms. - Comestible mushrooms are those generally employed for ldtohen-use; they are the best auc finest - besides they offer the great advantage of never being mjuuous, !X; as they are but fresh. In order to prepare the mus rooms, they must be chosen of equal size, fresh, quite firm, and above all not openei. - Cut off the ends of their stalks, quickly refresh the heads or buttons, then take one of then, with the left hand, and with the point of a small knife remove the skin, covering all the upper surface of the muslno , - head turning the latter round the blade, which remains fixed in g hand. The essential point is, to get the surfaces as smooth as poss, e. As the mushrooms are turned, throw them into a stewpan, 10 < mg a melted butter, mixed with a little water, the juice of some lemons, and a pinch of salt. In order to boil these mushrooms, it is sufficient to gn the liquid two or three minutes’ ebullition, but keeping the stewpan coverec.