118 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. crayfish, remove, and pluck their tails. Put into a mortar the shells of the tails as well as of the large claws, and the remainder of the crayfish, pound them with three handfuls of thin slices of bread, dried in the oven, and slightly browned ; remove the preparation from the mortar, turn it out into the boiling broth ; boil the soup for thirty-five minutes, pass it through a fine sieve, or a tammy; let it boil, mix in the cooking-stock of the crayfish, and a pinch of cayenne-pepper ; two minutes after, thicken it with a liaison of two yolks of eggs. Cut the crayfish-tails, put them into the tureen, into which now pour the soup. • 291. Crayfisli-soup, with rice. — Boil a score of crayfish, with wine, parsley, spices, and aromatics ; ten minutes after, drain them, remove all their meat; pound a third part of the meat with a part of the thin shell, and with the large claws ; when they are converted into paste, add to them a few spoonfuls of well boiled rice ; a few minutes after, dilute the pre- paration with the cooking-stock of the crayfish, and with some good fish- broth ; add to it two tablespoonfnls of tomata-puree ; pass the liquid through the sieve, pour it into a stewpan; add to it a pinch of pepper, and a piece of good butter, divided in little bits; make the soup hot, stirring it, but without allowing it to boil; pour it then into the tureen, add the preserved crayfish-tails cut in pieces. 292. Eel-soup, with curry. — Scald two or three small eels, remove their heads and opposite extremities; distribute the rest in thick pieces (trongons), which wash and wipe well. — Mince a large onion and a leek, fry them with butter, in a stewpan, and on a very brisk fire; immediately, when they have taken a little color, add the pieces of eel; salt them, toss them frequently, lest they should stick to the bottom of the stewpan; when they are well set, sprinkle over a tablespoonful of flour, and two of curry-powder ; a few moments after, gradually moisten them with two quarts of broth, with or without meat, as well as with a glassful of white wine ; add a bunch of parsley, garnished with thyme and bayleaf; let the liquid boil, remove it to the side of the fire. When the pieces of eel are done, drain them ; skim the fat off the soup, which pass through a sieve; thicken it with a liaison of four yolks of eggs. Trim the pieces