BEVERAGES. — ICE, SORBET, SPONGADE. 497 1077. Chocolate -‘spongade’. Proportions: four gills of double cream, nine ounces of vanilla- chocolate, nine ounces of sugar, three gills of water, and one gill of whites of eggs ; let the chocolate melt, dilute it with water, add to it the whites of eggs ; pass the preparation twice through a tine sieve ; let it freeze, and finish the preparation, as for maraschino-‘spongade7 (see art. 1076). 1078. Peach-‘spongade’. Proportions : five gills of syrup at thirty-eight degrees, five gills of puree of raw peaches, two tablespoonfuls of maraschino, and one gill of whites of eggs not whipped. Place the peaches in a basin, dilute them with the whites of eggs and the syrup, pass the preparation through a tammy, let it freeze, pro- ceeding as said, art. 1076. — Last of all, introduce into it the maraschino; mixed with a little syrup, but by degrees,only. 1079. Currant-<granites\ ‘Granites7 are a kind of ‘sorbets7, much in use in Italy, and also in France ; they are prepared only with light syrup and the juice of various fruit, such as currant, raspberry, pine-apple, orange, lemon, etc. Proportions: six gills of syrup at twenty degrees, six gills of currant-juice, the juice of two oranges, and a few bits of zest. — Mix the fruit-juice up with the syrup, the orange-juice, and the zest; the pre- paration should give fourteen or fifteen degrees at the syrup-scale ; pass it through a sieve, then pour it into an ice-box, with half the usual portion of salt; let the liquid freeze or set (frapper), turning the ice-box only from time to time; after the lapse of a few minutes, disengage the part adhering to the sides ; as soon as the composition begins to set, it passes instantly to the condition of a ‘granite7, that is, it yields a composition of grainy, rough ice; this being the point, where ‘granite7 differs from all other ice-preparations. If the ‘granites7 are not served immediately, all the water of the bucket must be drained, and the ice-box covered. 32