FISH . — PIKE, SHAH. 199 464. Pike-cutlets, ‘a la soubise’. Prepare some quenelle force-meat with pike-meat (see art. 122) but with only a quarter of a pound of butter to each pound of flesh. — On the other hand, mince two or three onions, fry them with butter in a stewpan, till they have taken a nice color ; season them with salt, nutmeg’, and a pinch of sugar; sprinkle over a pinch of flour, imme- diately moisten them with a little milk, so as to obtain a rather thickish sauce ; let it boil on a moderate fire, till the onions be done; then set the stewpan on a good fire, let the sauce reduce, without leaving it, until it be succulent and of high consis- tence , pass it through a sieve, let it cool, and then mix it into the force-meat. Take this force-meat up with a spoon, dividing it into pieces of the size of an egg; put these pieces on the floured table, roll them with the hand, giving them the shape oi a pear 5 then, with the blade of a knife, flatten the force-meat to the thickness of a third of an*inch; in these conditions, it is sufficient to give the end of the piece of force-meat a slightly slanting shape, in order to give it the form of a cutlet; take these cutlets up with the blade of the knife, and range them, one beside the other, on a flat stewpan; let them poach in boiling salted water, drain them immediately, when the force-meat has got firm; let them cool, dip them into beaten eggs, breadcrumb them ; let them fry with butter in a flat stewpan ; then dish them in a circle, pour over their butter; serve them with lemons cut in quarters, or else with a garnish in the hollow, formed by this circle. 465. Shad in court-bouillon. Cut a shad transversally in pieces, and let these macerate for ten minutes with a handful of salt. — Boil two quarts of water with a few minced vegetables, salt, and a glass of vinegar ; seven or eight minutes after, plunge the fish into the liquid, cover the stewpan, remove it on the side, and keep it there for seven or eight minutes. Now drain the pieces of fish, dish them up, and pour over some caper-sauce or anchovy-sauce. Draw. 153.