THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 184 claws, cut their flesh into small dice, season them, mix them up with preserved gerkins and beetroot, hard-boiled eggs cut in difce, and at last with whole capers, chopped parsley, and taragon; thicken this salad with a little mayonnaise-sauce, and with it fill the bodies of both the lobsters; decorate the salad on the top, then place the shells on the centre of a dish; surround them with sprigs of parsley, and range all round the claws and halves of tails. — Large crabs may be served accord- ing to the same method, that is to say, boiled, opened, drawn, then filled with their interior, mixed with a salad of preserved vegetables, to which may be added some boiled vegetables seasoned as salad. 428. Gratinated lobster. Boil a lobster (see art. 47); when drained, cleave it lengthwise into two halves ; take the flesh of the tail and claws, and cut it into small dice; put it into a stewpan, mixing an equal quantity of cooked mushrooms, also cut in dice. Pound the coral of the lobster with a little butter, and pass it through a sieve. Reduce a few spoonfuls of good bdcliamel-sauce, introducing into it a little cream and melted glaze ; when ready, add it to the ‘salpicon’ of lobster, keeping the preparation rather stiff, than loose; season with a little cayenne-pepper, and add to it the pounded coral of the lobster. With this preparation, fill the two half-shells of the lobster, pre- viously cleansed ; smoothe it on the top with the blade of a knife ; bread- crumb it, baste with melted butter, salamander it, and seive immediately. 429. Crimped skate. In London the skate is found distributed in strips at the fishmongers; it is generally very white, but its remaining too long in water must be prevented, lest its meat get grainy. The skate cut thus, must simply be boiled in acidulous salted water, and be dished and served, either with caper-sauce, anchovy-sauce, or simply with brown-butter (see art- 143). The liver of the skate is generally in great request; it is boiled like the fish.