438 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. add the same of potato-flour, a little salt, and in the last place four whipped whites of eggs ; pour then this preparation into a flat, and buttered mould, previously glazed with potato-flour. Set this mould in a baking-sheet, bake it in a slack oven ; when it is taken out, turn it over on a dish ; pour then a 'sabayon (see art. 918) into the hollow of the cake, and serve immediately. 950. Egged crusts. Grate the crust of a few rolls, of round shape ; divide these rolls in slices of the thickness of a third of an inch ; range them, one beside the other, on a dish, moisten them with a little good raw cream, sweetened, and mixed with a few yolks of eggs. Let the crusts soak for ten or twelve minutes, moistening them with cream;- then remove them, slightly press their moisture out, and dip them into well beaten eggs, slightly sweetened; let the eggs drain, and plunge the crusts into hot frying- fat ; when they have taken a nice color, drain them, sprinkle over some sugar, dish them up, and serve them, either with some ‘sabayon’, or with some cream, or even with cherries-sauce. 951. Gratinated batter (bouillie). Dilute rive ounces of flour with a quart of tepid milk; pass the liquid, through a sieve, into a stewpan, stir it on the fire, in order to thicken it; at the first bubbling, remove it back to the side of the tire; mix into the batter two spoonfuls of sugar, a piece of zest, and a little salt; boil it thus for a quarter of an hour: it must be consistent. Pour then a quarter of this batter into another stewpan; let it reduce without leaving it, so as to give it more consistence. At this degree, take it off the fire, introduce into it three or four yolks of eggs, and let it cool. — Boil the remainder of the batter for three quarters of an hour, lightening it from time to time with a little warm milk : it must be light and free ot grains. A few minutes previous to serving it, butter a baking-sheet, and upon this spread a thin layer of the batter with eggs; bake it in a slack oven, till it has got brown, and dry; then take it out of the oven,