346 TIIE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY- ROOK. fire, in rasped melted bacon ; season them, add to the meat an onion, and a bunch of aromatics. When done, drain off their fat, moisten them with a glassful of white-wine : as soon as the wine is reduced, again pour over a little glaze, in which roll them. Dish the pieces of leveret in a group, mask them with a mince of onions, thickened with brown-sauce. 748. Saute of leveret, burgher’s way. Carve into pieces of an equal size, the shoulders, legs, back, and neck, of a leveret, previously skinned, and drawn; put aside the blood, liver, heart, and lungs. Let melt in a flat stewpan a quarter of a pound of chopped bacon; add to it the pieces of leveret, half a pound of blanched streaky-bacon cut in squares, and two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion; season the meat, add to it a bunch of aromatics; let the pieces fry for a few minutes on a brisk fire; as soon as they have set, remove the stewpan back on a slow fire, or to the entrance of the oven ; finish boiling the leveret quite gently. Drain off the fat, pour on the meat a little thickened gravy, and a little wine; add to the stew the liver and heart of the leveret, cut up, as well as a dozen fresh mushrooms, each of which is divided in two transversally; let the sauce boil vigorously for ten minutes, then thicken it with the leveret’s blood, kept by for that purpose; finish it with a drop of vinegar, dish the stew up. 749. Saute of leveret, with truffles. Cut up a good leveret, put it into a stewpan with melted bacon, season, and let it fry on a brisk fire for seven or eight minutes; add to it an onion, a bunch of aromatics, and some trimmings of raw ham; cover the stewpan ; when the meat is nearly done, add to it a few raw truffles, cut in slices, and seasoned; moisten them with half a glassful of white wine, set the stewpan; toss them from time to time; when the liquid is reduced to glaze, place the meat, as well as the truffles, on a hot dish; pour into the stewpan a glassful of brown-sauce, let it reduce for a few minutes, skim off its fat, pour it on the dish.