THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 372 802. Eggs boiled soft, and hard. Eggs can only be boiled soft, if they are quite fresh, new-laid; nothing being more disagreeable, and injurious to the health, than an egg which is not of perfect freshness. Place the eggs carefully in a stewpan of cold water, which cover; let the liquid boil, immediately remove it off the firefive minutes after, drain the eggs. — If the eggs are plunged into boiling water, one must give them three minutes or three minutes and a half, according to then- size ; the chief point is, not to break them in plunging them in. Boiled eggs’are served, wrapt up in a folded napkin; but they may also be served in a dish imitating a hen hatching her eggs. — In order to boil the eggs hard, it is sufficient to boil them for ten minutes, then plunge them into cold water, and not to drain them till a quarter of an hour after, m order to remove their shell. 803. Poached eggs. Just us eggs for boiling soft must be of extreme freshness, that is, new-laid the very day; even so is it the same for poached eggs, which can be good only on this condition. Let some water boil in a middling-sized stewpan; salt it, add to it a drop of vinegar, remove it back on the side of the fire, so that it boils on one side only ; then break six eggs one after the other, opening tiein just above the water, and letting them drop in, right on the place that is in ebullition. As soon as the eggs, are set, take the stewpan off the fire just enough to let the ebullition cease; three minutes after, take it ott entirely; take the eggs now carefully up with aid of a skimmer touch them with the finger, in order to ascertain if the cover be of sufficient resistance; if this be the case, plunge them into a vessel of cold water, a quarter of an hour later, trim them carefully, and serve. Eggs are also poached in their shell; to attain this result they must be plunged into boiling water, and boiled for lour and a half oi v minutes! according to their size; then drain, and plunge them into cold water; ten or twelve minutes after, carefully remo\ e t ion s le