385 KISOT, KLOESE, GNOQUIS, NOQUES. 829. ‘Gnoquis’ of potatoes. Let boil, in water, eight or ten potatoes with their peel on; peel them, grate them, or pass them through a sieve; place this puree in a btewpan, season it, mix into it a piece of butter, one whole egg, two \ olhs of eggs, and a handful of grated parmesan ; pour the preparation then on the floured slab, introduce into it, working it with both hands, a third its volume of flour; immediately divide the paste into several parts' which roll to strings of the thickness of a finger; cut these strings transver- sally, round the cut parts; let them poach in salted water; as soon they have got firm, drain them, put them into a flat stewpan, pour over them melted butter, sprinkle over grated parmesan, pour on a little gravy and dish them up. 17; 830. Swiss gnoquis. Prepare some choux-paste (see sweetmeat) with a glassful of milk the same of flour, four ounces and a half of butter; as soon as the paste' has dried to the degree requisite, take it off the fire, and put it into another stewpan; season it with a little salt, and a pinch of sugar- gradually introduce into it two whole eggs, and three yolks of eggs' then finish it with a handful of grated parmesan. Now divide the paste into two or three parts, which place on the floured slab, and roll up to thick strings; let them poach in salted water, till they have o-ot rm ; dram them, dip these pieces in melted butter, roll them in grated parmesan, range them in a vegetable stewpan, and let them gratinate m the oven for twenty minutes. 831. Noques, with butter. Put into a kitchen-basin two large handfuls of white bread-crumb moisten it with milk, let it soak for full a quarter of an hour ; then press’ out its moisture, and bruise it with a spoon. On the other hand, pour into a basin six ounces of butter half- melted, work it with a spoon till it be thickened and creamy ; then add to It seven or eight yolks of eggs, introducing them one by one ; when it is frothy, mix into it the bread-crumb, and a pinch of flour • season