448 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. the juice ot two or three lemons: the preparation must not be too frothy; as soon as it begins to thicken, take it off the ice, mix up with it the ‘salpicon’ of preserved fruit. Pour the jelly into a cylinder-mould, set in a kitchen-basin, and surrounded with ice. One hour after, turn the jelly out, and serve it. 970. Cocoa-cream jelly. Clarify three ounces of ‘gelatine’ (see art. 964), with three quarters of a jelly-mould-ful of water, half a pound of sugar, two whole eggs, and the juice of a lemon ; when it is filtered, and cooled, mix into it half a glassful of cocoa-cream-liqueur, pour it into a mould placed in a basin, and surrounded with pounded ice (see draw. 319); an hour after, dip the mould quickly into warm water, turn the jelly over on a warm dish, and serve it up. — Proceeding according to the same method, jellies may be prepared with any fine liqueurs : Bordeaux-anisette, cream of moka, cream of vanilla, etc. 971. Orange-jelly. Place twenty leaves of tine ‘gelatine’ in a stewpan with cold water, in order to soften them; then drain this water off. Fill the jelly-mould, which is to be employed, with tepid water; pour this water on the ‘gelatine’, let it dissolve on a slow fire, stirring it with a spoon ; add to it half a pound of sugar, immediately take it off the fire, let it nearly cool. Very slightly whip two whites of eggs, add to them the juice of three lemons, dilute them with the dissolved ‘gelatine’; whip the preparation on the fire, get it frothy, warming it; at the first sign of ebullition, mix into it the juice of one lemon more, and remove it back to the side of the fire, with hot ashes on the lid of the stewpan, in order to keep the liquid very warm, without yet allowing it to boil; when it is clear, take it up with a very clean spoon, pour it into a bag, in order to filter it until it flows quite clear. Press out the juice of six oranges, mix into this juice a few blades of zest, filter it through (see art. 73); then mix it up with the preparation limed, but cold and liquid. — Place the jelly-mould in a kitchen-basin,