228 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. the tripe, carefully scrape its spungy surface, wash it, changing the water repeatedly; then cut it into large squares; place these squares in a stewpan, or earthen stock-pot, with a sufficient quantity ot water to cover it; add to it a little salt, an onion, and a hunch of parsley garnished with aromatics ; let the liquid boil, remove it back to the side of the fire ; continue a very gentle ebullition for seven or eight hours, keeping the vessel covered. When the tripe is done, refresh it in cold water, spunge it well, distribute it in long squares (one inch wide). — Mince two large onions, put them into a frying-pan with butter, let them fry quite gently, till they be slightly colored ; then add the tripe, season it with salt and pepper, boil it, until the onion is well set, and the tripe of a fine color; finish it with a drop of vinegar, or the juice of two lemons, and a little chopped parsley. , _ .. _ 522. Tripe ‘a la poulette’. Cut, in long squares a pound, or more, of boiled tripe. Chop a large onion, let it fry with butter in a stewpan; when it is of a fine yellow color, add to it the cut tripe, which season; let it fry, till its moisture has reduced ; then sprinkle over two tablespoonfuls of flour, gradually moisten it with warm broth ; stir the liquid until ebullition, add to it a garnished bunch of parsley ; two minutes after, remove it on a slow fire, boil it for twenty-five minutes; then remove the tripe with the fork, place it in another stewpan, let the sauce reduce to the degree requisite, stirring it; thicken it with a liaison of three yolks of eggs, strain it over the tripe. Finish the stew, introducing into it a piece of butter, a pinch of parsley, .another of pepper, another of nutmeg, and the juice of a lemon. 523. Middle-piece (troncon) of beef-fillet, braised, ‘a la jardiniere’. A whole fillet of beef constitutes a very copious dish, not well to be served, unless at a dinner of many guests; for a dinner, where the number of guests is a restricted one, it is convenient to serve but half of it, or a piece taken out of the centre of the fillet; moreover, both the