TI-IE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 260 it off the lire ; salt it at the last moment, and dish it. Serve separately a sauceboatful of good gravy, and accompanied by a dish of vegetables, such as : green-pease, new carrots, braised lettuce, or else a ‘macedoine' of vegetables. 585. Stewed brisket of veal, with turnips. Cut into middling-sized squares, half of a fine brisket of veal. — Melt in a stewpan four tablespoonfuls of butter, mix into it three spoon- fuls of flour; which fry for a few moments, stirring it; add then to it the pieces of veal, let them fry without ceasing to stir it, until the meat has well set. At this degree, take the stewpan off the fire, drain the fat, moisten the meat, gradually, and just to cover, with broth and white wine ; season, add a pinch of pepper, a garnished bunch, and a large onion studded with cloves; stir the stew on the fire, until starting to ebullition, then remove it back. Prepare a garnish of good turnips, cut in balls, with the aid ot a vegetable-spoon, or else cut to the shape of a clove of garlic; blanch them for a few minutes, drain them well, put them into a frying pan with butter, let them take color on a good fire ; season them, and add a pinch of sugar ; drain their fat, and mix them into the stew : the latter should at this moment be half-done; continue the moderate ebullition. When the meat and vegetables are done, skim off the fat from the sauce, and dish the stew. 586. ‘Timbale’ of veal-sweetbreads. Prepare a pound and a quarter of veal-force-meat; try a little part of it previous to employing it, and rectify it, it necessary. — Butter a dome-mould, decorate it with rounds of truffle, line it with a layer of the force-meat, of the thickness of an inch. — Blanch three sweetbreads, cut them up in slices. Let fry in a stewpan, with butter, two spoonfuls of chopped onion; add to this half a pound of raw ham, cut in small dice, a few raw mush- rooms split transversally; a few minutes after, add to it the sweetbreads, season them ; as soon as their moisture has evaporated, moisten them with a quarter of a glassful of white wine ; let the liquid reduce to