POTATOES, FARCED, WITH CHEESE ; SALAD, COLD & HOT. 391 of vegetables in the centre, but they are often used also for dishing hot entrees. 847. Potatoes with cheese. Peel some raw potatoes, trim them to an equal size, cut them up in thin slices. Butter largely a vegetable-dish, and in this range the slices of potato, in layers, seasoning each layer with salt and pepper, and sprinkling them over with grated parmesan ; sprinkle over the top also, moisten it 'with a little butter, pour into the bottom of the dish two dessertspoonfuls of broth; let the potatoes gratinate at a slack oven, serve them as soon as they are done, and of a nice color. 848. Macedoine of vegetables in salad. This salad is composed of carrots, french-beans, green-pease, white and green heads of asparagus, cauliflower, kidney-beans, lentils, pre- served mushrooms (in vinegar), potatoes, gerkins, and beetroots. The smaller vegetables remain whole, the larger ones are cut in dice, or else in lozenges ; they are boiled, or blanched, according to their nature, and seasoned separately with salt, oil, and vinegar. The vegetables are then drained on a sieve, placed in a salad-dish, with as much taste, and elegance as possible ; then is poured over a Vinaigrette’, mixed with tine-herbs, and yolks of eggs boiled hard, and pounded. 849. Haricot-beans. In order to prepare haricot-beans {haricots - Manes), very good water is requisite : hard water is always bad for boiling dry vegetables. Wash the beans in tepid water, plunge them also into tepid water, boil them quite gently, salt them as soon as they are nearly done. — When the haricots are boiled, and drained, they can be eaten as a hot salad, V la maitre d’hotel7, with cream, with gravy, and ‘a la Lyonnaise’. In order to prepare them V la maitre-d’hoter, it is sufficient to put them into a stewpan with a piece of kneaded-butter, toss them for a few minutes, season them, take them off the fire, and finish them thus, intro- ducing into them a large piece of fresh butter divided in little bits, a pinch of chopped parsley, and the juice of a lemon.