311 POULTRY. — CHICKEN ‘FRICASSEE’. tin-cutter, cut out of each of these strips, four 'croustades7 of round shape; channel them with the aid of a small knife, slightly hollowing them on the side. Cera them on the top at a little distance from the edges, plunge them into plenty of frying-fat, in order to give them a nice color; they must all be of an equal shade. Drain, and empty them, mask their inside with a layer of cooked force-meat, composed ot veal, and cooked poultry-livers : this layer ot force-meat pi events the sauce from infiltering into the bread. Fill the ‘croustades’ with a garnish, composed of eocks’-combs, and kidneys, scollops of fat-liver and truffles, thickened with succulent white- sauce, reduced with the trimmings of the truffles. On the top, dish in a rosette, a few small poultry - quenelles half-formed in tea- spoons ; mask them with a little of the sauce, then place in the centre of the rosette, a small ball of truffles. Dish the ‘croustades on a napkin. Draw. 234. 681. Chicken ‘fricassee’. Fricassee is indeed a simple dish, and very agreeable ; but female cooks do not always succeed in well preparing it, even tho they give themselves much trouble. Yet with proper care, and a little study, nothing is more easy. Choose two good chickens, tender and well cleansed, cut off the paws, pinions, and necks; divide each of the chickens into Draw. 235. Draw, 236. Draw. 237. five pieces, cutting the body in two ; cut off the bone of the thigh ; place all the pieces in a kitchen-basin with cold water, let them soak for full an hour ; drain them, place them in a stewpan with the necks, paws, body-bones, and pinions ; cover them with tepid water ; let the liquid boil; add to it some salt, and peppercorns ; remove the stewpan back on the side of the fire ; twelve minutes after, remove the fillets and breast of the chickens, refresh them, trim them without removing the skin, keep them covered in a smaller stewpan. When the legs are done, drain them, trim, and join them to the fillets. With a quarter of a pound of flour, and the same of butter, prepare a light ‘roux7 (see art. 135); moisten it with the poultry’s cooking-stock,