107 GAME-SOUPS. slices of smoked meat, one onion, a piece of carrot, a garnished bunch of aromatics, and a piece of butter. Set the stewpan on the fire, allow the meat to take color, turning it; sprinkle over a spoonful of flour, which fry for two minutes ; moisten the meat with a glassful of white wine, and three pints of broth ; let the liquid boil, then remove it back to the side of the fire. — Prepare a little force-meat with the legs of the par- tridges, and with this force-meat, prepare small quenelles, which poach in salted water. — Blanch about twenty small onions, put them into a flat stewpan, with a little sugar, and broth; let them cook, and glaze. As soon as the partridges are done, drain them, remove from them the fillets, and divide them in slices. Skim the fat off the soup, add to it a pinch of cayenne-pepper; pour it into the tureen, passing it through a sieve ; add the partridge-fillets, the quenelles, and the small onions. 264. Partridge-soup, a la Steward. — Boil a pint of lentils with broth, and some vegetables; add to this a piece of raw ham, and two partridges without their fillets ; as soon as the meat is done, pass the soup through a sieve, pound the lentils with the partridge - meat pre- viously cooked, dilute it with the soup-stock, and pass it through a sieve; warm the soup, without allowing it to boil; mix into it a garnish of little partridge-quenelles, prepared with the meat of the fillets kept for that purpose. 265. Grouse-soup. — Prepare two or three quarts of stock for thick soup, start it to ebullition, then remove it to the side of the fire, and there let it clarify. — Roast two grouse, remove the fillets from the breasts, and keep them by for after-use; coarsely chop the legs, if fresh, then plunge them into the boiling stock, as well as a mince of vegetables, and a few slices of raw ham. Add a bunch of parsley garnished with aromatics, let the soup clarify for half an hour, skim off the fat, pass it through a tammy, and pour it into another stewpan, wherein heat it, ►Scollop the fillets of the grouse, put them into the tureen, into which then pour the soup. 266. Hare-soup, with onions. — Pluck, and cut in quarters four or five large white onions; boil them, till nearly done, in plenty of salted