THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 336 Choose a small saddle, covered with a layer of fat, trim it square- wise, cutting the ribs short; place it in a deep dish, pour over it a pint of cooked marinade; let it macerate for two or three days, turning it from time to time; then drain it, wipe it, let it roast either on the spit, or in the oven, giving it from an hour and a quarter, to an hour and a half, and basting it repeatedly with fat; when it is three - parts done, moisten it with a few spoonfuls of the marinade ; at serving-time, drain it, and dish it up. Pass through a sieve the stock of the dripping-pan, skim off its fat, add to it a little good gravy, let it reduce to half, then pour it on the saddle; serve separately a sauceboatful of currant-jelly. 729. Wild-boar’s-head. The head of a wild-boar, boiled in its natural state, is to my thinking preferable to any other preparation; stuffed boars head is natuially a more luxurious dish, but its preparation is difficult and expensese. First of all, the boar’s head must be burnt or scalded,* in order to remove the hair, or bristles ; then disengage the meat from the end of the muzzle, in order to saw off its extremity; make an incision into the middle of the skull in the shape of a cross. The tongue of the boar must be left in its place, carefully removing the tube, and cleansing well the interior of the throat; for this proceeding, the boar’s head must be cut with its neck very long, this part being the most relishing one.. Rub the meat of the neck with saltpetred salt, place it m a basin, pour on vinegar, add to it some aromatics, keep it in the cool for three days. The eve before the day, when the boar’s head is to be served, drain it from this souse, wrap it up in a cloth, which tie up; place it in a braising-pan, surround it with aromatics, onions, carrots, peppercorns, juniper-berries, and salt; add to it the ears wrapped up separately. Moisten the meat to height with vinegar and water, let the liquid boil, remove it to the side of the fire; boil the boar’s head quite gently, from four to six hours, according to its being more or less tender; drain, and * If one would scald the boar’s head, either to scrape off its bristly hair, or to singe this with charcoal ; it must first be rubbed with powdered rosin, but in such a manner, that the powder may penetrate to the root of the hah.