THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 314 the juic$ of two lemons, serve it on a hot dish. Send up at the same time a dish of rice boiled in water. 684. Chicken fricassee, with small onions. Cut up two tine and good chickens, into live pieces each ; put them into a stewpan, with a piece of butter, the pinions, body-bones, necks, and paws; add to them four ounces and a half of blanched streaky-bacon, cut in middling-sized dice. Set the stewpan on a slow tire, let the meat fry, stirring it with a spoon; season them, eight or ten minutes after, sprinkle over two tablespoonfuls of flour, let them fry again for some minutes, then moisten them to cover with warm broth, and a glassful of white wine. Stir then the liquid until it starts to ebullition, let the sauce reduce quickly for seven or eight minutes, then remove the stewpan back to the side of the tire. Fry, in a small pan, two or three dozen tender onions, salt them, add to them a pinch of sugar ; remove them with a skimmer, mix them into the stew : onions and chickens should prove done at the same time; if the onions were not tender, they must be previously blanched. — At serving-time, skim the fat off the sauce, dish up the chickens, surround them with the small onions ; reduce the sauce, if necessary, finish it with a liaison, and pour it over the chickens, passing it through a sieve. 685. Force-meat border, garnished with poultry-scollops. Butter a (lead or copper) channeled border-mould; fill it with raw poultry force-meat, cover it with a buttered sheet of paper, bet the mould in a saute-pan, with warm water just to half its height; let the liquid boil; cover the saute-pan, remove it back on a slow fire, so that the water is kept at the same degree ot heat, without boiling: this is what is called poaching or steaming in the ‘bain-marie’. Here is the method of preparing the poultry-scollops: take three raw chicken-fillets or one turkey-fillet; trim them, season them, wrap them up with bacon, put them into a saute-pan, with butter; let them tiy on stove or in oven, turning them; taking care not to do them too much; unwrap them, transversally cut them slantwise, into scollops, which