THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 20 never to be neglected, is to fix the piece to be roasted, solidly to the spi , either with thread, or by means of iron-skewers. The time requisite for roasting, can only be approximately deter- mined : this entirely depending as well on the size of the pieces roasted as on their degree of tenderness, as well as on the intensity ^^he right degree of roasting may be judged of, in poultry or game, by pressing the drumstick of the legs with two fingers; > the meat is soft to the touch, the poultry is done. When fowl is nearly done enough, the inward meat puffs out small clouds of steam. Roasts must repeatedly be moistened, either with their own fat 01 else with butter, melted in the dripping-pan. It a large piece of mealms roasting, care must be taken to avoid taking the moisture fallen to bottom of the dripping-pan : poultry and game, should only be momtened with butter. In order to prevent the roasting piece from gettm too brown a color, it must be wrapped up, either with strips ot bacon, simply with buttered paper. N 28. How to broil (griller) meat on the gridiron. Bi oiling meat or fish on the gridiron, is a very simple operation; yet is i one that needs ’great carefulness. In most of the kitchens of the middle-class here a^e handy machines for broiling on (what is called) a gridiron (ft coulisse) with grooves or slides. If these are so in and out well, these machines, so simple, and so litde an exquisite perfection, saving, and essentially practical- II *uc ^ i ,i - ] lover of burning wood, or charcoal, whic machine is at disposal, a thick layei ot Dmn g , is preferable, must be spread over a bed of hot ashes, at the le o the * of the oven • stir the pieces that are too blazing, then set the SP- v this ‘braise’ thus to broil the meat, while turning it from iTo time. The whole irt, and skill of broiling on the gridiron, consists time to requisite for each sort of meat, and in beino' well aware ol the time letp-usi # i. +n ****** s,i“ —«».* -—*• -