196 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK of skate into this cooking-stock, cover the stewpan, remove it back. I en minutes after, drain the pieces of fish, dish them, pour over a little brown - butter; serve the remainder of this butter in a sauceboat. — Skate may be served with chopped egg and parsley sauce. 458. Salted codfish, housekeeper’s way. Take a piece of good codfish (a pound) dissalted to the degree requisite, being white and firm ; distribute it in squares, which place in a stewpan with cold water ; set the stewpan on the fire, and let the liquid boil; remove it, cover it, keep it thus for ten minutes. Drain the cod then on a sieve, remove its bones, then put it into a flat stewpan, add to it a pinch of nutmeg, four ounces and a half of good butter cut small, and two tablespoonfuls of butter-sauce; add then a pinch of chopped parsley, and the juice of two lemons ; dish the codfish, and surround it with 'croutons’ of bread or puff-paste. 459. Carp, peasant’s way. Cut, not too thin, plenty of vegetable 'julienne’, composed of carrots, onion, and celery-root; fry these vegetables in a stewpan, either with butter‘or oil, but on a very slow fire; when half-done, add some raw mushrooms, two tomatas freed of pips, a clove of garlic, and lastly, two middling-sized river-carp, cut up in thick pieces; season them, moisten to height with white wine ; add a pinch of saffron, boil them on a brisk fire; the fish done, the liquid must be reduced to half; dish then the pieces of carp on a layer of bread-'croutons’, fried with oil; mask them with the fish-stock and vegetables. 460. Carp, housewife’s way. Kill a carp, scale and draw it; carefully wash its inside ; if it has soft-roes, put them in water, with a little vinegar and salt; blanch them, giving them but one bubbling. — With minced vegetables, spread the bottom of a gratin-dish, chosen of the dimensions of the fish ; set the carp on the vegetables, salt it, moisten to half its height with white wine ; add some cloves, peppercorns, a bunch of parsley, and some aromatics, cover the fish with buttered paper, let the liquid boil; push the dish into a slack oven ; half an hour after, turn the fish, finish boiling it gently.