206 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. little piece of blanched bacon cut in large dice; a piece of preserved tunny-fish, some pickled raw truffles, cut like the bacon; season all this with salt, spices, and a pinch of cayenne-pepper ; pour over two table- spoonfuls of cognac; thicken the preparation, first with some spoonfuls of grated bacon, and then with a little raw pike quenelle force-meat. With this preparation fill some well cleansed pig s guts, tie fast both their ends, wrap them up in large cloths, tie them again; boil them, for an hour and a half, in very fat broth, with a bunch ot aromatics, some vegetables, and a little white wine; drain them, unwrap them, in oidei to wrap them up once more in the same cloth, wetted anew; let them cool, cut them in slices ; dish these slices in a circle, surround them with aspic-jelly ; serve at the same time a sauceboatful of mayonnaise, or tartar-sauce. v » 484. Conger-eel stewed, with curry. Take off both the fillets of a thick piece (troncon) of conger-eel; remove their skin, let them macerate for an hour with salt and vinegai; wash them, wipe them, whereupon divide them into square pieces. Mince one large white onion, let it fry with butter in a stew pan, till it be of a nice color; add to the onion the squares ot fish, toss them foi a few moments; then season them, sprinkle over one spoonful of flour, and another of curry - powder; some minutes after, moisten the fish to cover with water and white wine; add to it salt, spices, and a garnished bunch of parsley ; five minutes after, remove it back to the side, m order to finish boiling the fish quite gently; at the last moment, remove the bunch, thicken the sauce with a liaison of two yolks of eggs; remove the pieces of fish with a fork, and dish them; pass the sauce through a tammy over the fish. 485. Group of shell-fisli. This group is composed of prawns, crayfish, and lobstei, boiled and cooled. — In order to dish this piece with solidity, it must be dished on a wooden support fixed on the dish, and then masked with butter; but the lobsters must be fixed on to the top by the aid of two little hate e