PUREE-SOUPS 115 the stewpan, and remove it back to the side, on a moderate lire; boil the vegetables short of moisture, stirring them from time to time. On the other hand, peel two or three potatoes, cut them, and boil them in salted water. When done, drain their liquid, cover them, let them dry for a few minutes at the entrance of the oven. — The pulp of the carrots being done, mix into them the potatoes, pass all together through a sieve. Put this puree into a stewpan, gradually dilute it with two quarts of fresh broth, let the liquid boil, stirring it; immediately remove the stewpan back to the side of the fire; boil the soup for twenty- five minutes, season it, skim it, thicken it with a liaison of three yolks of i immediately pom it into the tureen, passing it through a fine sieve; add to it four spoonfuls of boiled rice. — This soup may likewise be prepared, replacing the broth by milk. Heie is the second method. Boil the red pulp of the carrots, ex- actly as indicated above; when at the degree requisite, they must be of a tine red color: pass them through a sieve. — On the other hand, melt a piece of butter in a stewpan; mix in two tablespoonfuls of flour, and foim a little roux ; try it on a moderate fire for some minutes only; dilute it then, off the fire, with two quarts of broth ; stir the liquid on the flic, let it boil, remove it back to the side of the fire ; twenty-five minutes aftei, skim off its fat, and mix into it the carrot-puree; season the soup, boil it for a quarter of an hour more, pour it into the tureen, passing it through a sieve. — With this soup may be served little bread-'croutons’ fried with butter. 285. Puree of dry vegetables, for soup. — Lentils, white haricots, yellow pease, and split pease, are frequently employed for the confection of soups, particularly in winter-time. These purees are easy of execution, and, if carefully managed, yield very good results. In order to prepare these purees, these vegetables must be boiled in salted water, with some fresh vegetables ; they are drained, and passed through a colander or sieve. Now place the puree in a stew-pan, and dilute it either with good broth, or else with the strained cooking- stock of the vegetables ; the soup being diluted, let it boil, stirring it with