THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK 188 broil sardines, they must be drawn, without removing their heads. Simply wipe them, salt them, pour over a little oil, let them broil at a good tire, turning them; dish them, baste them with oil, or else serve them with housekeeper’s-butter. 437. Gratinated codfish. Take half of a cod-fish, the tail-end, remove both its fillets. Butter a gratin-dish, sprinkle over a pinch of onion and a pinch ot chopped raw mushrooms ; place both the fillets on the dish, one beside the other; season them, also sprinkle over chopped parsley and mushroom, and then some bread-crumb. Thus bake the fish in a hot oven, tor ten or twelve minutes; remove it, baste it with a little good brown-sauce, let it boil for seven or eight minutes more, and serve it on the same dish. 438. Codling. When this fish is prepared quite fresh, its flesh is excellent, and falls in leaves like that ot the cod ; but as soon as it begins to turn, it takes a bad tang, not pleasant to every body. — Boil the codling, like codfish, with salted water, and after it has macerated in salt: serve it with potatoes and melted butter, or else with a sauce applicable to fish. The sauce, as well as the potatoes, must be served separately. 439. Gratin of sole-fillets, with oysters. Take off the fillets of three fine soles, trim them, mask them on one side with a thin layer of raw fish force-meat, prepared with tine- herbs ; when the fillets are masked, fold them together lengthwise. Spread the bottom of a dish with a layer of the same force-meat, ranging it in the shape of a ring, let it get firm in the oven ; on the ring, then dish the fillets of sole, in a circle, and in an upright position; support the circle from the inside, near the centre of the dish, with a layer of force-meat; in the hollow, left by the circle, place either a large carrot, or a piece of bread masked with a buttered piece of paper, just enough to fill the hollow. Surround the fillets also with a strip of buttered paper, and tie this paper on with thread. Set the dish then on a trevet, push it