308 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. the stewpan on a moderate fire, let the meat fry until half-cooked' then add to them the fillets and breast-piece, season them, and finish frying them together, turning them. On the other hand, cut seven or eight tomatas transversally, press out their seeds, range them into a large pan with oil, slightly salt them, let them fry on both sides ; sprinkle over some chopped parsley; push the pan on a moderate fire, finish boiling the tomatas quite gently; then range them on the bottom of a dish, and place upon them the pieces of chicken ; pour into the stewpan four or five tablespoonfuls of gravy, let it boil for two minutes, pour it on the dish, passing it through a sieve. — For a person dreading neither oil nor garlic, this yields an excellent dish. 677. Chicken with rice, burgher’s-way. Draw and singe a good chicken. — Chop a piece of beef-marrow, and the liver and crop of the chicken ; mix into this mince a handful of grated white bread-crumb ; season it with salt and nutmeg , with this preparation fill the breast of the chicken, truss it with the paws put in wrap it up with bacon, place it in a stewpan of just its proportions; add to it two smoked sausages, a bunch of parsley, two cloves, and some pepper-corns ; moisten them just to height with broth of the stock-pot passed through a sieve, the fat but partly skimmed off; let the liquie boil; five minutes after, remove the stewpan on to a slow fire; boil th chicken for forty or fifty minutes, according to its size. On the other hand, put into a stewpan, twelve ounces of picked an< washed rice, slightly blanched ; moisten it, to three times its height, wifi the moisture of the chicken, passed through a sieve, but the fat nc skimmed off; let the liquid boil; a few miuutes after, remove it back o a moderate fire. When the rice is done, it must be neithei too coi sistent, nor yet dry ; then add to it a piece of good butter,- a handful c grated parmesan, and a pinch of nutmeg; dish it up; untruss the chickei place it on the rice. 678. Chicken puff-paste-pie (tourte), ancient fashion. By the demonstration of the two drawings and particulars hei about to be given, this article will become the model of prepaiation i