THE HOUSEHOLD COOKElt Y-BOOK. 8 that one can take at the same time the larded parts, and those parts of the cushion situated on the retreating part of the haunch. The roast haunch of roebuck must be served on very hot, if not on metal, i. e. pewter plates. 11. Carving a loin of veal. — A loin of veal in its shape is very much like a sirloin of roastbeef. Previous to carving a loin, the under- side {filet mignon) and kidney must be first cut off; thereupon it is set on a dish, so that the meat of the upper-side (fir os filet) may be cut in slices transversally, but not too thin ; to each of such slices, which are to be served on hot plates, is added a slice either of kidney or of under-side, as well as a little good sauce or gravy, accompanying the remove, but served separately. — If the loin of veal be carved in the kitchen, the upper side or larger fillet is removed in one piece from the bone, in order to cut it in slices transversally, and rather slant- wise ; these slices are then brought back into place ; the kidney and the minion-fillet of the loin are also carved, and ranged all round the piece. 12. Carving a cushion of veal. — Farther on will be found the drawing of a larded cushion of veal, served as an entree, on a round dish; but a cushion of veal is frequently served as a remove. In order to cut a cushion, it is sufficient to let the fork hold it fast, on the side of the udder, so as to carve the larded meat into slices not too thick. 13. Carving of hot ham. — Ham, when served hot, evidently gains by being carved at the table, this being the surest means of preserving its essential flavor. The most delicate part of ham is unquestionably the cushion, that is, the most fleshy part, indicated in the drawing by the larger number of lines. This cushion is cut in slices not over thick, the fat is left adhering to the meat. In order to carve a ham easily, it must be set on an empty dish. To each slice of ham, ranged on heated plates, a little good sauce is added; this sauce is served in a sauceboat, not on the dish. If the ham is accompanied by a garnish, this must likewise be served separately, and thus presented to the guests. If a ham is to be