164 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY- BOOK. minced vegetables, and vinegar; let them cool in their cooking-stock, then cut them transversally into slices, which trim to an equal shape; mask them with ‘Villeroi’-sauce, immediately range them, one by one, on a baking - sheet; when the sauce has cooled, roll the brains in line white bread-crumb, dip them into beaten eggs, in order to bieadciumb them once more ; fry, and dish them in a group on a napkin, and adorn them with fried parsley. 388. Mogador-fritters. Choose a thick piece of beef-marrow, let it soak, and boil it m unskimmed broth ; give the liquid two minutes’ ebullition, take the stew- pan off the fire. A quarter of an hour after, drain the marrow on a cloth, cut it in slices, transversally, and not too thin ; season the slices with salt, and a pinch of cayenne-pepper; then take the slices off with the aid of a fork, dip them one by one into a little brown - sauce reduced with wine and a little glaze, but rather consistent, so that it does not coat the marrow - slices ; let the sauce drain well, then apply the slices on cooked, and chopped truffles, so as to mask them com- pletely ; immediately range them on a thin baking-sheet, keep them on ice until serving-time. ■ Now take the rounds of marrow, dip them into some trying-paste, plunge them into plenty of hot fat, but mind, taking but a tew at a time, in order to give the paste a nice color. Drain the fritters, dish them in a group on a napkin. This dish must be served and eaten quite hot. 389. Small ‘vol-au-vents’, with soft-roes. Prepare some puff-paste, with three quarters of a pound of butter, and the same of flour; give the-paste seven turns (see art. 54), roll it out to the thickness of a fifth part of an inch ; off the surface ot tins flat, then cut out fifteen rounds with the aid of the sixth channeled tin-cutter; empty these rounds with a smaller plain cutter, so as to obtain a ring. Gather the trimmings of the puff-paste, which roll out very thin, and out of this flat, cut the same quantity of rounds, as there are of rings,