45 ELEMENTARY METHODS — PURJ&E FOR GARNISH. 87. How to prepare onion-puree for garnish. —- Clioose some white onions, cut them in quarters, let them three-parts boil with salted water in a covered vessel. Drain them, refresh them, press all their water out place them in a stewpan with a little broth, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; finish cooking them, letting the moisture reduce to glaze, then mix them up with a little bechamel-sauce ; work the preparation on the fire, till it be well thickened ; pass it through a fine sieve, or a tammy. Warm the puree, at the moment, without allowing it to boil: if the puree is to be brown, add to it, in warming it, a little meat-glaze. 88. Hoav to prepare chestnut-puree for garnish. — Remove the peel of the chestnuts, plunge them into boiling water, so as to be able to blanch them by removing the first skin. Place them in a stewpan, moisten to height with broth, let them boil on a moderate fire ; when they are tender, the liquid should be entirely reduced. Pound the chest- nuts with a piece of butter, season them, pass them through a sieve. Warm this puree with a little meat-glaze. 89. How to prepare celery - puree for garnish. — Take some cleansed celery-heads, which mince, in order to boil them in salted water; when well drained, they are put into a stewpan with some spoonfuls of bechamel; the preparation is reduced, working it with a spoon; when well - thickened, it is passed through a sieve. The puree is seasoned, warmed at the time, adding to it a little melted meat-glaze. 90. How to prepare the puree of dry vegetables for garnish. — The vegetables are boiled in water according to their nature; they are well drained, passed through a sieve. The puree is put into the stewpan, with a little butter, and glaze, or sauce. When it is time to serve the puree, season it, warm it well, stirring it, but without ebullition. 91. How to prepare ‘Amiral’-garnish, for removes. — This garnish is composed of muscles fried a la Villeroi, of crayfish-tails, whole prawns, parsley-leaves. — These garnishes are dished in groups.