PUREE-SOUPS. 113 279. Puree of green asparagus, with rice. — Break the stalks of some bundles of tender asparagus ; a pound or a pound, and a half of these asparagus will be required ; cut off their heads to the length of a third ot an inch, and keep them by for after-use. Cut the remainder of the tender stalks in small pieces, which plunge into boiling salted water, boil them on a brisk fire (in a copper sugar-pan) and keep them rather firm; immediately drain them, pound them, add four yolks of eggs and a piece ot butter, then pass them through a sieve. — On the other hand, dilute in a stewpan four tablespoonfuls of rice-meal with a glassful of boiling good broth; set the stewpan on the fire, stir the liquid until ebullition, immediately remove it back to the side of the fire, let it boil for three quarters of an hour. Skim the fat off the soup, season it, add to it a pinch of sugar and the asparagus-puree, pour it into the tureen, add the asparagus-heads, boiled in salted water, and serve. 280. Artichoke-puree-soup. — Prepare some cooked artichoke- puree, proceeding as indicated, art. 86; dilute this puree with three quaits ot stock for thickened soup (art. 24b) ; pass it through a tammy into a stewpan; start the soup to ebullition, stirring it. At the first bubbling, remove it to the side of the fire, and thus let it clarify for a quarter of an hour, skim off the fat, and thicken the soup with a liaison of four yolks of eggs, then pour it into the tureen. 281. Crisped-cabbage puree. — Mince the heart of two crisped cabbages, plunge them into boiling salted water ; seven or eight minutes after, drain them. Chop an onion, fry it with butter in a stewpan. Add to it the cabbage, and a piece of streaky bacon, stir it from time to time ; when it is three-parts done, sprinkle over a tablespoonful of flour; a few minutes after, moisten with a quart of broth. The cabbage done, pass it through a sieve, lighten the puree with a little broth, let it boil, season it, thicken it with a liaison of three yolks of eggs; add to it two or three handfuls of Brussels-cabbage, chosen of equal size, boiled in salted water, then tossed with butter for a few minutes, and seasoned. Pour the soup into the tureen. 282. Princess onion puree. — Take seven or eight white onions, each of which cut in four pieces ; blanch them in boiling water, until