142 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. cover, which should disengage itself freely. Fill the patties then with a of an inch and a third in diameter; roll these ‘croustades’ then in fresh bread-crumb, dip them into beaten eggs, and again bread-crumb them: corn them superficially, on one side only, with a tin-cutter of one inch diameter, in order to mark the lid. Plunge them then into plenty of hot frying-fat, let them fry, drain them ; remove their lid, empty them, and fill them with a ‘salpicon’ composed of crayfish - tails and mushrooms, thickened with a little good white-sauce; which then cover with the lid. 340. Stuffed poultry-‘quenelles’. Line two dozen tartlet-moulds, either oblong or cutlet-shaped, with poultry ‘quenelles’ force-meat; garnish the inside of each of the ‘quenelles’ with a small portion part of truffle ‘montglas’ (see art. 40), cooled, and rolled up into an olive-shape ; mask the ‘montglas’ with a layer of force- meat, then range the moulds in a saute-pan; let the force-meat poach in the oven with a little hot water on the bottom of the saute-pan, and a sheet of paper as a cover. As soon as the force-meat has become firm, remove the ‘quenelles’ out of the moulds, to let them cool; breadcrumb them twice, let them fry, drain, and dish them in a group, on a folded napkin. 341. Small ‘timbales’, Scottish fashion. Butter eighteen‘dariole’-moulds, breadcrumb them, mask them in- side with strips of pancakes prepared without sugar. Get ready a preparation, composed half with cooked poultry-puree, half with raw force-meat, mixed with a ‘salpicon’ of cooked mushrooms. With this preparation fill the hollow of the moulds, cover it with a little flat of pancake ; range these small ‘timbales’ on a baking-sheet, and bake them in a slack oven ; as soon as they are done, turn them out, and dish them up on a folded napkin. 342. Small macaroni-‘timbales’. Butter ten or twelve ‘dariole’-moulds. Boil twelve ounces of small macaroni in salt water, but without breaking them ; drain them without refreshing, and then spread them on a napkin.