77 ELEMENTARY METHODS - COLD SAUCES. 19G. How to prepare cold mayonnaise-sauce, ‘a la tartare’. — Intro- duce into a mayonnaise-sauce with eggs, prepared in the conditions . prescribed in art. 198, six tablespoonfuls of chopped raw fine-herbs, com- posed of leaves of parsley, chives, shalots, gerkins, capers, and grated horseradish-root; add to this a spoonful of mustard, a pinch of cayenne- pepper. — To this mayonnaise can be added some spoonfuls of melted, ■ but cold aspic-jelly. 197. How to prepare cold mayonnaise-sauce, with jelly. — Pour into a well tinned stewpan two gills of liquid, but cold, aspic-jelly ; mix it up with two gills of oil, half a gill of vinegar, a tablespoonful of iimubtai d, a pinch of salt, and another of pepper ; whisk this preparation 'A ell, with a tinned whip, set it on ice, thus to whip it until it begins to thicken; then take it off, and continue working it for but a few minutes more. — This mayonnaise is generally employed for masking, as ‘chau- troix, or else to thicken vegetable-salad. 198. How to prepare cold mayonnaise-sauce, with eggs. Put our or five yolks of eggs into a kitchen - basin; add to them a pinch of >alt , a pinch of mustard - powder; mash them first with a wooden spoon, vork them in order to thicken them, at the same time mixing in a little good oil, which must be poured out of a corked bottle, the cork of which ' s cut lengthwise, so that the oil drops in a feeble jet; in proportion as ihe oil is introduced, the mayonnaise should gain a little consistence. Continue working thus, alternating the oil with a few drops of lemon- uice; which addition slightly dilutes the preparation, at the same time serving to thicken it, and give it a pretty good consistence. When the - gg:- have absorbed half a bottle of oil, finish the mayonnaise, by intro- lucing into it a few drops of good vinegar. It the mayonnaise should curdle or decompose itself, immediately nterrupt the operation, and put two eggs into another tureen, to thicken hem, gradually introducing a gill of oil, and a few drops of lemon-juice; mmediately when the preparation has got a fine consistence, the decom- >osed mayonnaise must be introduced, but carefully, and adding more or ess of vinegar and oil, observing whether the excess of the one, or the