362 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. as the snipe; but this is not the case, if these birds live in marshy places by putrid waters, as their meat then takes a fishy taste, that is very disagreeable. In the former case, the moorfowl is prepared like the wood- cock, that is, without drawing it, and with slices of bread underneath. If the waterfowl have taken some fishy taste, they must be drawn, and be stuffed with bread-stuffing, mixed with a little chopped onion and parsley; then they must be pierced with a skewer, and roasted on the spit for fifteen or eighteen minutes. 782. Teal (sarcelles or cercelles) with olives. Draw, and wash two or three teal {cercelles), spunge them interiorly with a cloth, put into the hollow of their body a bunch of parsley, and aromatics ; mask their breast with a strip of bacon, or an oiled sheet of paper 5 then pierce them through the side with an iron-skewer: fix the skewer then on the spit, let the teal roast at a brisk fire for fourteen or fifteen minutes ; when they are done, unwrap them, cut them up, dh iding each of them into four pieces, dish them, placing the fillets on the top, mask them with brown-sauce, mixed up with stoned and blanched olives.. 783. ‘Souffle’ of woodcocks with truffles. Prepare a woodcock-puree, proceeding as indicated toi paitiidge- puree. When it is passed through a sieve, add to it a little game-extract, prepared with the body-bones, thickened with a little sauce, and reduced to half-glaze; add to it besides seven or eight raw yolks of eggs, a piece of butter, four tablespoonfuls of truffles, boiled with a little madeira, and cut into small dice. Season the preparation, then introduce into it six whipped whites of eggs, pour it into a ‘souffle’-pan previously but- tered ; bake the ‘souffle’ in a slack oven for twenty-five or thirty minutes; when’taken out of the oven, set the pan on a dish, and serve it immediately. 784. ‘Chaufroix’ of thrushes. Bone ten or twelve thrushes ; season them inside, then till them with a game force-meat (art. 123) finished with truffles cut into small dice.