THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 412 Melt four ounces and a half of butter, let it settle, decant it; pour a spoonful of this butter into a pancake-pan, warm it, and then pour into the pan two spoonfuls of the paste ; spread this paste over the whole breadth of the bottom of the pan; as soon as this paste takes consistence, turn the pan about itself, in order to disengage the ‘crepe’; immediately turn it over, tossing it; a minute after, slip it on to a warm small dish, and sift over it powder - sugar. Prepare thus all the other ‘crepes’, immediately placing them one upon the other, and sprinkling over each of them a little sugar : ‘crepes’ must be eaten when quite warm. 895. Chestnut-‘souffle’. Boil four dozen plucked chestnuts with a piece of vanilla and some sugar; pass them through a sieve, place the puree (ten ounces) in a kitchen-basin, add to it a little more sugar; and slightly warm it, working it with a spoon ; take it off the lire, add to it four yolks of eggs, and four ounces of butter divided in little bits. Half an hour previous to serving, introduce into this preparation five whipped whites of eggs very firm, as well as three or four tablespoon- fuls of whipped cream ; pour it into a buttered ‘souffle’-dish, which set on a baking-sheet, and push it into the oven; twenty minutes after, sprinkle over fine sugar; as soon as this is glazed, serve the ‘souffle’. 896. Sweet-spinach. Choose young tender spinach freshly gathered, boil it in salted water; drain it, press the water well out, chop it fine, let it fry with butter for a few moments ; sprinkle over a pinch of flour, gradually moisten it with raw cream ; add to it a grain of salt, powder-sugar, and a little zest; boil it for a few minutes ; thicken it, off the fire, with a few yolks of eggs, diluted with cream ; finish it, introducing into it a piece of good butter; dish it up, and surrounding it with finger-biscuits cut in a triangular shape. 897. Small vanilla-‘souffle’. Put into a stewpan three yolks of eggs, four tablespoonfuls of flour, four of powder-sugar; dilute the preparation with two glassfuls of milk,