53 ELEMENTARY METHODS. — FORCE-MEAT. converted into paste ; then take them out of the mortar, and pass them through a sieve. Put into the mortar the panada, which pound, adding to it, as soon as it is well cooled and beaten, the poultry-meat (but only by degrees), then half of the butter, then the eggs, and last of all, the remainder of the butter. Season the force-meat, which pound for ten minutes more, pass it through a sieve, then put it into a basin ; work it with a spoon for a few minutes, smoothing it, and gradually introducing into it a little white sauce ; try its consistence, to rectify it, as required. 118. How to prepare cooked poultry force-meat. — Proportions: half a pound of cooked poultry-meat, six ounces of raw meat, four ounces of panada, six ounces of cooked udder (tetine) ; two yolks of eggs, • two whole eggs, salt, spices. Trim the raw and cooked poultry-meat, which cut into dice, and } pound them separately, mixing them together afterwards; when converted into paste, take it out of the mortar, in which now pound the panada, and gradually add the udder. The mixture being made, add to the pre- i paration the poultry-meat, then the eggs ; season the force-meat, put it into a kitchen-basin, and add to it a few tablespoonfuls of cooked fine- herbs ; work it with the spoon for a few minutes, try its consistence, and rectify it if necessary 5 then keep it in a cool place, until the time for use. 119. How to prepare poultry-force-meat, with cream. —Propor- tions: a pound of poultry-fillets, one white of egg, three gills of good raw cream, salt and spices. Trim the fillets, which cut into large dice, and pound them, adding the white of egg; the meat being converted into paste, pass it through a sieve; put the force-meat into a kitchen-basin, gradually introduce into it the cream, working it vigorously with a spoon, so as to get it smooth; season it, try a small part, letting it poach at the entrance of the oven, then rectify it, if needs be, either with a little cream, or with a white of an egg. 120. How to prepare fat-liver force-meat. — Proportions: a pound of fat-liver, or liver of pullet, half a pound of panada, a quarter of a pound of rasped bacon, four tablespoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs,