TIIE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. Blanch live or six ounces of line rice, boil it with milk, keeping it a little consistent; sweeten it only when it is done; scent it with lemon or vanilla; finish it with a little good cream, and a piece of butter; dish the rice up, surround it with the apples in syrup, pouring their syrup over them. — Pears, with rice, are prepared according to the same method. 936. Glazed apple-marmalade. Cut into quarters seven or eight apples; pluck them, place them in a stewpan with a little water, let them dissolve on a moderate lire, then pass them through a sieve. Pour the puree into a stewpan, with two thirds of its volume of fine sugar, and a little zest; put it back on the fire again, let it reduce, stirring it with a spoon, without leaving it; when it is at the degree requisite, remove the zest, pour it on a dish; smoothe it with the blade of a knife, sprinkle over fine sugar, and glaze it with the aid of an iron-skewer, made red-hot in the fire, so as to form a little rosette ; surround it with ringer-biscuits, cut in a triangular shape. 937. Fritters-sonffle. Prepare a ‘choux’-paste (see art. 1031) a little stiffer and less buttered, than is usually done; add to it a tablespoonful of lemon-sugar. — Take the paste up in equal parts with a teaspoon ; let these parts drop into warm frying-fat, keeping them as round as possible, pushing them with the finger; slightly stir the pan, fry the fritters to a nice color; when drained, sprinkle over powder-sugar, and group them in a pyramid on a folded napkin. 938. Rice-fritters. Blanch six ounces of picked rice; drain it, put it into a stewpan, moisten it largely with boiled milk; let the liquid boil, remove it to a slow fire; cover the rice, finish boiling it, keeping it consistent; when it is nearly done, sweeten it, and add to it a few spoonfuls of good raw cream, and a little zest; ten or twelve minutes after, it should be dry; take it off the fire, remove the zest, add three ounces of butter in small bits/ four raw yolks of eggs, and some spoonfuls of preserved peel,