398 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. water; let them boil for a few minutes, remove them, refresh them, and empty them; fill them with ‘quenelle’ force-meat, mixed up with a few spoonfuls of fine-herbs. Range these pieces on the bottom of a stewpan, spread with bacon, moisten them just to cover with broth, of which the fat has not been skimmed; add to it some salt and spices, cover them with buttered paper, and braise them on a very slow fire; drain them, then trim, and dish them up. Pass the cooking-stock, through a sieve, skim off its fat, thicken it with a little sauce or kneaded-butter, finish it with the juice of a lemon, and some chopped parsley ; pour it then on the cucumbers. 870. Glazed cucumbers. Cut the cucumbers in quarters, split them in the middle, remove their seeds; peel them, let them blanch for a few minutes; then range them in a stewpan, spread with slices of raw ham ; moisten them with a little gravy, let them boil, letting the moisture reduce to glaze; then dish them up. Dilute the stock of the stewpan with a little white-wine, let it boil, thicken it with a little kneaded-butter; pass the sauce, through a sieve, over the cucumbers. — Glazed cucumbers mayx be masked with ‘bechamel’-sauce, white-sauce, brown-sauce, and even with tomata-sauce. 871. Turnips, ‘a la bourgeoise’. Peel, and cut in dice, a few large turnips; plunge them into boiling water, let them blanch for a few minutes only; drain them, put them into a stewpan with butter, salt, and a pinch of sugar; cover the stewpan, and thus boil the turnips on a moderate fire : if the turnips do not get tender, add to them from time to time a little broth; when they are nearly done, thicken them with kneaded-butter, add to them a pinch of pepper, and dish them up. 872. Large artichokes, whole or cut. In order to serve the artichokes whole and boiled, it is sufficient to shorten their leaves, to trim the bottom (see draw. 286) in removing all tough leaves; boil them, kept covered, in salted water, slightly aci-