THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 116 a spoon, so as to prevent its sticking to the bottom; remove it then back to the side of the fire, and let it boil only partially ; in this condition it clarifies well. — Soups of vegetable-puree may be always thickened, and associated with any garnish. 286. Poultry-cream, a la brunoise. — With two or three quarts of poultry-broth, prepare a little stock for thickened soup, of a yellow color (see art. 246) ; let it clarify at the side of the fire for thirty-five or forty minutes, whereupon pass it through a tammy; put it back into the stew- pan, let it boil, and thicken it with six tablespoonfuls of poultry-puree, mixed with three yolks of eggs, a little good raw cream, a small piece of fine butter; keep the soup in the ‘bain-marie’. On the other hand, prepare a little garnish of tender vegetables, cut in small dice, or simply with the machine; these vegetables are composed of: carrots, turnips, and celery-root; blanch then separately, let them glaze with a pinch of sugar ; at serving-time, mix them in the soup ; add some spoonfuls of blanched green-pease ; pour the soup into the tureen. 287. Fish-stock for thick soup. — With five ounces of flour, four ounces of butter, prepare a ‘roux’ (see art. 135) without allowing it to take color; dilute it then with four quarts of clarified fish-broth. Set the stewpan on the fire, stirring the liquid until boiling; then remove it to the side of the fire, let it clarify (depouiller) for an hour; skim off its fat, and pass it through a sieve. 288. Fish-soup, with leek. — Cut, in thick pieces about an inch long, the white part of some well washed leeks ; split them in the middle, shred them to ‘julienne’ lengthwise; fry them gently with butter, till they be of a yellow color; salt them, sprinkle over a pinch of flour, moisten them with three quarts of fish-broth, passed through a napkin; let the liquid boil, stirring it with a spoon, immediately remove it back to the side of the fire, so as to modify its ebullition. Twenty-five minutes after, skim the fat off the soup, add a pinch of pepper, a little nutmeg, two dozen bread-quenelles, prepared, as indicated in the chapter of vegetables, poached in water; pour it into the tureen.