CARVING AT TABLE. 3 1. Carving* of a capon or pullet. — A piece of large poultry, which is to be carved at the table, requires, that he, who is charged therewith, take utmost care to carve nice pieces, cutting them neatly, without rending, and of a pleasant shape, that is, neither too great, nor too small. In the carving of poultry, especially, the carving-scissors are indeed not to be dispensed with. In order to carve the poultry with facility, it must be placed on a bare dish before the carver. If the pinion-tips adhere to the wings, it is convenient first to cut them short with the carving-scissors 5 then, off the breast-piece, cut a little slice, removing at the same time/the stump (moiynou) of the fillet: this piece is very delicate, and not over-voluminous. Then out of the breast-piece is cut another fine slice, going- all the length of the breast. If the breast-piece of the fowl be very large, another slice may be taken from it, but without encroaching on the breast itself (Jiaut-de-poitrine). Having carved one side, the other should be carved without displacing the poultry. As soon as the fillets are cut, the legs are disengaged from the body by dislocating them ; yet, previously to this, the skin of the carcass must be cut just at the junction - point of the leg and back, d he operation of disengaging the leg' is managed by aid of the fork, employing the blade of the knife also. As soon as one thigh is disengaged, the leg is cut near the knuckle (using the scissors), and the thigh is then divided in two, either with the knife or the scissors, in the place traced on the drawing 6. As soon as the thighs are cut off, the breast (haut-de- poi.tr ine) is separated from the back, in order to be divided in two, either lengthwise or transversally. The back may also be divided transversally into two or three pieces, as many persons like this part of the fowl; but previous to dividing it, it must first be cut straight, on both sides, by the aid of the scissors; as with the knife the operation becomes rather diffi-