91 BRUNOISE-SOUP. broth, which let reduce ; then, moisten them thoroughly with two gills of fresh clear broth passed through a sieve, and its fat skimmed off. At the first bubbling of the liquid, remove the stewpan back to the side of the tire ; keep it thus for an hour and a quarter: : the vegetables must boil, without however t being converted into puree. Some minutes [ previous to serving, mix into the soup two tablespoonfuls of tender lettuce-leaves, cut and blanched in salt-water ; add four or live tablespoonfuls of rice, barley, or any paste, cooked. Skim the fat off the soup, previous to pouring it into the tureen. — The 'bru- noise’ may be prepared with jelly-broth ; it may also, like the 'julienne’, be prepared with fish- or vegetable-broth. 226. Spring-soup, with vermicelli. — Set on the lire a stewpan with three or four quarts of water. Pluck, wash, and then put by, some tender turnips, trench-beans, carrots, and fresh potatoes, half a crisped colewort, two or three green pumpions, a slice of gourd, or Spanish artichoke, a ■ small head of cauliflower, a handful of tender beans, and the same of .gieen-pease. It is not strictly necessary, to employ all these vegetables 'at once, if only the species be varied, being content with those the season provides best, and most tender. When once the vegetables are tough, one can not venture to serve this soup. The vegetables being plucked, divide the largest, leave whole the small ones , wash them, drain them on a sieve, but separating the various species. The leaves of the colewort must be torn in pieces, the cauliflower is divided into fiowrets, the turnips, and potatoes, are cut in small quar- ters; the pumpions, and Spanish artichokes in large dice, the french- beans m little pieces, the beans, green-pease, remain in their natural condition. AY hen the water in the stewpan begins to boil, salt it slightly, then in turn, add to it those vegetables requiring longest cooking, and succes- sively the more tender ones. As soon as the last vegetables, that is to say. Draw. 71 Draw. 72.