THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 44 82. How to prepare poultry-puree for a garnish. — Take the white meat (half a pound) of cooked chickens; remove the skin, cut them m small pieces, pound them in the mortar with a piece of butter, and four tablespoonfuls of well-done rice; when the preparation is converted into paste, season it, add to it two tablespoonsfuls of cold sauce, pass it through a fine sieve or tammy. Heat the puree at the moment when wanted, stirring it with a spoon, but without allowing it to boil. 83. How to prepare game-puree for garnish. — Game-puree for garnish is prepared with pheasant,'partridge, or snipe. If possible, only the meat of the breast should be employed, it must be cooked, anc cooled; remove its skin, pound it with a piece of butter, and a litt e boiled rice Mix into the preparation a little sauce, season it, pass it through a fine sieve, or a tammy. - Heat the puree, at the time, without allowing it to boil, adding to it a little good melted meat-glaze. 84 How to prepare mushroom-puree for a garnish. Mince some fresh mushrooms, put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter the juice of a lemon, and a little salt; boil them on a brisk nre, until the moisture be evaporated ; pound them, in a mortar, with some spoonfuls of bechamel-sauce, pass them through a fine sieve, or a tammy. Warm the puree, at the moment, with a piece of butter, add a pinch of nutmeg. 85. How to prepare turnip-puree for garnish. - Peel the turnips, divide them in small pieces, let them blanch for a few minutes m bo, mg salted water; drain them, put them into a stewpan witn a. little broth and season them ; let them boil on a slow fire, reducing the liquu glaze; pass them through a sieve: the puree must ie wmrne in . stewpan, mixing into it a little butter, a little glaze, and a little sua . 86 How to prepare artichoke-puree for garnish. - Mince some cooked artichoke-bottoms, let them fry with a little butter, season them, thicken with a few tablespoonfuls of bechamel-sauce, an a i Pass them through a fine sieve, or else through a tammy ^ aim puree at the moment, stirring it, finish it with a little meat-glaze.