THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 390 843. Lyonnaise potatoes. Boil the potatoes with their peel on; then drain them, and peel them, without allowing them to cool; turn them into the shape of corks, cut both the extremities, and mince them in slices. Chop an onion, let it fry in a frying-pan with butter ; add to it the minced potatoes, let them toss on a slow tire, season them with salt and pepper, finish them with a little chopped parsley. 844. Fried potatoes. Choose some good potatoes ; cut them in slices either lengthwise or transversally, plunge them into plenty of hot frying-fat, let them fry, stirring them with the skimmer, till they have taken a nice color, and have well set; drain them, salt, and dish them up in a group. — Potatoes are also fried, cut into little balls with the aid of a vegetable-spoon. These potatoes can be served as a garnish. 845. Farced potatoes. Choose a dozen large, mealy potatoes ; range them on a baking- sheet, bake them in a slack oven for full an hour; when they are taken out (being well set), choose seven or eight of them, having remained Avhole, and cern them on the top in order to contrive a roun£ aperture; by this aperture remove the interior pulp, which put into a stewpan, bruise it with a wooden spoon ; add to it three ounces of good butter, a little salt, a pinch of nutmeg, a pinch of sugar, three yolks of eggs, and two spoonfuls of grated parmesan. — With this preparation fill the potatoes kept warm ; shut the aperture, with the cover kept by tor that purpose ; moisten them with a little melted butter, and bring them back into the oven; five minutes after, serve them. 846. Border of potatoes. Prepare some potato-puree (art. 840), put it into a stewpan, mix with it a piece of butter, a little cream, some yolks of eggs, a handful of grated parmesan, a little nutmeg; pour it out into a buttered, and ' floured mould; bake the border in a slack oven, or else let it poach in the ‘bain-marie’. — These potato-borders may be served with a garnish