252 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. put it into a braising-pan, with cold water, a few vegetables, salt, spices, and a bunch of parsley garnished with aromatics, and then a pinch of flour diluted with cold water. Boil the head on a very slow tire: a calf s-head will take three or four hours for its boiling, seldom less. But for greater security, it is convenient to probe it from time to time. At serving-time, drain the calf’s head, unwrap it, set it on a long dish. Hide the opening of the skin on the skull, either with a layer of force-meat, or with a fliatelet’- skewer garnished with a fine cock’s-comb, a truffle or mushroom, besides a large poached quenelle. Surround the head with a garnish composed of button-mushrooms, yolks of eggs boiled hard, quenelles, cocks’-combs, and truffles ; the cocks’-combs indeed, as well as the truffles, may be dispensed with; they may be replaced by little balls of brains and gerkins. Mask these garnishes with a little madeira-sauce {see art. 183), the remainder of which serve in a sauce- boat. 570. Mutton-hash, with rice. Prepare a mutton-hash, in the conditions prescribed in the preceding art. 568; when it is thickened, keep it in the ‘bain-marie’. — On the other hand, wash a pound of rice, let it drain on a sieve, a quarter of an hour previous to using it. With this rice then prepare a good risotto; when it is nearly dry, remove it back to the side of the lire; five minutes after, introduce into it four tablespoonfuls of tomata - sauce, and a piece of butter kneaded with two spoonfuls of curry-powder; pour then half this rice into a deep dish, form a hollow in its centre, dish the hashed mutton into this cavity, and cover it up with the remainder of the rice; now smoothe the surface, sprinkle over a handful ot Par- mesan, moisten it with a little glaze, and serve it. 571. Mutton-pilaff. Disengage the bones, and big fillet of a neck of mutton (two pounds), remove its sinewy parts, cut them transvcrsally in pieces ot equal length and width, put them into a stewpan with a chopped onion, and some