138 TIIE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. preparation form the ‘croquettes’, in round shape, breadcrumb them, let them fry quickly 5 when they are of a nice color, drain, and dish them in a group, on a folded napkin. 331. Rice-croquettes. Boil a pound of rice, proceeding as for a risot (see vegetables), but keeping it rather more consistent, and cooking it a little longer ; finish it with a piece of fine butter, and a few handfuls of grated parmesan ; add to it a little ‘salpicon’, composed of game or poultry, truffles, mushrooms, and pickled-tongue or ham, all of which cooked ; now pour the prepara- tion into a buttered saute-pan, spread it in a layer an inch thick ; let it cool well, in order to divide it in rounds with the aid of a tin-cutter of half an inch in diameter. When these rounds are cut, roll them in grated parmesan, dip them in beaten eggs to breadcrumb them; fry them in very hot fat, and dish them. 332. Oyster-croquettes. Take the meat of rive or six dozen blanched oysters ; trim this flesh, cut it up in dice, which put into a stewpan; add to them a third their volume of cooked mushrooms, cut in small dice. Pour into a stewpan four gills of ‘bechamel’-sauce, let it reduce, stirring it, and introducing into it a few spoonfuls of the oyster-liquor, then a little raw cream ; when the sauce is reduced nicely, and shows frothy, thicken it with a ‘liaison’ of three yolks of eggs, finish it with a piece of butter; now add to it the oyster-‘salpicon’; pour the preparation into a kitchen-basin, let it cool well on ice; divide it then into parts of the size of a green-gage, which roll on a table sprinkled with bread-crumb, in order to give them a round shape; dip them into beaten eggs, bread- crumb them, plunge them into plenty ot hot tat, taking but a few at a time ; drain them; when they are of a nice color, dish them symmetri- cally on a folded napkin, and garnish them with tried parsley. 333. Crayfish-‘boucheesk Boil a few dozen small crayfish (see art. 47); when they have cooled, pluck their tails, as well as their claws, and cut the meat into small dice;