THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY- BOOK. 436 sheet, cover with buttered paper; and let it cool entirely. — A few hours after, divide the preparation with a round tin-cutter, dip these rounds into beaten eggs, and breadcrumb them. A few minutes previous to serving, plunge them into plenty of fat; the ‘croquettes’ being of a nice color, drain, and roll them in sugar flavored with orange, dish them in a group on a folded napkin. Send up separately a boatful of apricot- sauce (see art. 907). 946. ‘Diablotins’ with almonds. Pound four ounces and a half of almonds, dilute them with a glass- ful of cold water, pass them through a sieve; with this liquid, dilute four ounces of good rice-meal; pour the preparation into a stewpan, passing it through a sieve ; add to it a pinch of salt, a little orange-zest, an ounce of butter, and the same of sugar; stir it on the fire, until ebullition, let it reduce, without leaving off stirring, till it is firm, and of a nice consistence; take it off the fire, add to it three tablespoonfuls of kirschwasser, or cognac; pour it into a kitchen-basin, and take it up in pieces of the size of a nut, without allowing it to get cool; roll these pieces between the hands to a round shape ; this done, range them on a large dish. Warm some frying-fat, plunge half of the little balls into the liquid, in order to let them take color ; they must he of a very dark-brown shade; drain them, moisten them with a few drops of orangeflower-water; roll them in powder-sugar, dish them up on a napkin. 947. Roussettes. Put on a table six ounces of flour, form a hollow in the centre ; in this hollow, place a grain of salt, three whole eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and four tablespoonfuls of orange flower-water. Bray the eggs with the hands, introduce the flour, and form a paste of the consistence of that taken for ‘nouilles’; let it rest for ten minutes, then turn it, as is done for puff-paste, at five turns. Then roll it out, and divide it with paste-cutters, of various shape, or else cut out of its surface (with the point of a small knife) little pieces imitating fish, men, flowers, etc. Now