347 GAME. — HARE-OMELET, POTTED : LEVERET. 750. Potted-liare (terrine). Trim and chop the meat of the legs, and shoulders of a hare, with their same weight of fresh bacon ; put the meat into a mortar, season it, pound it, and pass it through a sieve. Cut in slices the half of a small calf’s liver, range them in a pan with butter or hog’s lard, season them, let them fry, until they have well set; remove them off the fire, let them cool, then cut them in pieces, and pound them; add to them the force-meat previously prepared, pound both together for ten minutes, then pass it through a sieve. Cut in squares the fillets of the hare, add to them their equal volume of blanched bacon cut in dice, as well as some cut truffles ; season them, mix them with the force-meat. Put this pre- paration into an earthen pan or jar (see drawing 261), able to resist the heat of the oven, the bottom of which has previously been masked with strips of bacon ; cover also with bacon the preparation, and the bacon with a round of common paste; set the jar on a deep baking-sheet, push it into a slack, but well heated oven ; bake it an hour and a half, or two hours ; let it cool well previous to serving it. 751. Farced leveret, farmer’s way. Take a skinned leveret, draw it, singe it, and lard it with bacon; fill the hollow of the breast with force-meat prepared thus : let fry the liver, heart, and lungs, of the leveret in a frying-pan with bacon, aro- matics, onion, and parsley ; season them, then pound, and pass them through a sieve; mix up, with this puree, double its volume of bread- crumb, and one whole egg. When the leveret is filled, truss it, let it roast, basting it with melted butter; when it is done, salt it, take it off the spit, dish it, and baste it with the following sauce : Put into a small stewpan, a chopped onion, a bunch of parsley and aromatics (thyme, bay-leaf, wild thyme) ; add four or five tablespoonfuls of ham in small dice ; moisten with a large glass of white wine, and reduce the liquid to half, then add to it a few table-