355 GAME. — PARTRIDGE-CUTLETS, AND GALANTINE. truffles and mushrooms, in equal parts, and cut in thin dice like the game; now thicken this ‘salpicon with some brown-sauce reduced with a little glaze : the sauce must not be too abundant. Season the preparation with a pinch of nutmeg, spread it on a baking-sheet, in a layer ot the thickness of a third of an inch ; let it cool well, then cut out ot this preparation a dozen pieces of the shape ot cutlets; mask them, over all their surface, with a thin layer of raw ‘quenelle' force-meat; dip them into beaten eggs, bread- crumb, and plunge them into hot frying-fat, taking but a little at a time ; when they are well drained, dish them up in a circle ; then till the hollow of this circle with a garnish of stoned olives, very lightly blanched, and mixed up with a little brown-sauce. — After the same method, may be prepared cutlets of either poultry, lobster, or crayfish. 766. Partridge-Galantine’, ‘a la belle-vue’. Transversally cut into slices a partridge-‘galantine’, let the slices not be too thick; trim them to an equal diameter, and oblong shape ; glaze them with the aid ot a paste-brush, then apply on the centre of each of them a slice ot cooked truffle. Range then the ‘galantines’ side by side, on the bottom of a saute-pan, masked with a layer of - set aspic-jelly ; this saute-pan must be placed firm, and upright on the ice. Immediately pour between the 'galantines' some cold and liquid aspic-jelly, so that it Draw. 267. comes up just to the height ot the slices. Let this aspic-jelly set well, then cern each ot the slices with the point ot a small knife, cutting the aspic- jelly , dip then the bottom ot the saute-pan into warm water, in order to remove the galantines’, to which the aspic-jelly should adhere; dish them, and surround them with chopped aspic-jelly, or jelly-‘croutons’. 767. Pheasant with chestnut-puree. When a pheasant is no longer tender, one must never risk roasting it, far better is it to have it braised or stewed. — Draw and singe a pheasant; fry its Jiver, and pound it with double its volume of chopped 23 *