296 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. When the turkey is trussed, wrap it up with bacon, or simply with a buttered sheet of strong paper; fasten the paws to the spit; let the turkey roast at a moderate fire for an hour and a half, and more if the fowl be large, carefully basting it with butter; unwrap it a quarter of an hour previous to taking it off the spit, then salt it, let it take a nice color; when it is taken off the spit, untruss it, dish it up, and surround it with a score of fine roasted larks. Serve separately a little good gravy. — The lines, traced on the turkey’s breast, indicate the manner in which the meat is to be carved ; it is well, however, to observe, that the slices must not be too long. 655. Turkey ‘a la daube’. It is only, on condition of having at disposal a large turkey, rather old than young, that a good klaube’ can be obtained. Singe and draw the turkey, pluck it carefully, divide it in two, cut- ting the, sides transversally through the middle. Separate both the legs from the body-bones; lard them on their thickest part with fillets of ham, then tie them with thread ; cut off the rest of the bones adhering to the breast, which divide in two lengthwise ; lard the meat of both the fillets with raw ham, season them with salt and spices. Melt in an earthen stock-pot, ten or twelve ounces of chopped bacon add to it the pieces of turkey; that is, the legs, breast, body-bones, neck, paws, and crop (which last must be opened and cut); let them fry for twenty minutes on a slow fire, tossing them ; season, and add to them a bone of raw ham, a bunch of aromatics, a clove of garlic, two onions, a large carrot, and last of all, a boned and blanched calf’s toot. The body- bones of the turkey, as well as the vegetables, must be placed at the bottom, the breast on the top; the legs and other pieces of turkey, the calf’s feet, and ham, round the breast; cover the latter with two large strips of bacon, moisten the meat, to three fourths their height, vith white wine and a little brandy; let the liquid boil, immediately remove the stock-pot back on hot embers, surrounding it up to half its height; cover the aperture with a round of paper, and this with a plain plate half-filled with water: put a weight on the plate (see the hare-daube), m