360 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. much as possible should be employed the meat ot the breast and thick part of the legs, that of the drumstick being too sinewy. Cut up the meat, put it into a mortar with two or three tablespoontuls ot cooked rice; as soon as the meat and rice are braised, mix into them two tablespoonfuls of sauce, and pass them through a tammy. Put this puree into a stewpan with a piece of good butter, season it, baste it with a little glaze 5 warm it without ceasing to stir it, but not allowing it to boil; dish it up, sur- round it with a few poached eggs (see art. 803) ; pour over the puree a little good gravy, got from the bones and body of the partridges. 777. Salmis of plovers, or lapwings. Remove the crop and gizzard from four plovers ; singe them, truss them without drawing them ; wrap them up in bacon, let them roast, either on the spit, or in the oven; when they are done, divide each of them in four pieces, remove their bones and superfluous skin, range them in a stewpan, setting the legs underneath, and the fillets uppermost; glaze them with the paste-brush, and keep them in the ‘bain-marie’. — With the body-bones of the game prepare a little extract (see art. 126), and finish the salmis, as that of thrushes (see art. 786)'. 778. Hot plover-pie, on a dish. Singe three or four plovers, draw them, cut each of them in two, season them Avitli salt and pepper. Mask the bottom of a pie-dish with some thin slices of raw ham; sprinkle over a chopped small onion, range on top of these the halves of plovers, surround them with some raw mushrooms, and two or three eggs boiled hard and cut in two ; moisten the game, to half its height, with a little cooled gravy, cover the pie with a flat of puff-paste trimmings or with fine short-paste, proceeding as indicated, art. 537. Set the pie on a baking-sheet, bake it for one hour in a slack oven; cover it with a sheet of paper, as soon as the paste has taken color; when the pie is taken out ot the 0A7en, dish it up. 779. Roast woodcock, burgher’s way. The meat of the woodcock, as well as that of the pheasant, requires keeping a certain time, to get it tender; otherwise it is dry, and without