THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 380 and five or six raw yolks of eggs ; the yolks must be introduced one by one, working the preparation vigorously ; at this point, incorporate with it, gradually, four whipped whites of eggs ; introduce, at the same time with the whites of eggs, two handfuls of grated parmesan. When the mixture is operated, pour the preparation into a buttered ‘souffle’-pan, bake it for fifteen minutes in a very slack oven, or else in the field-oven. Here is the second method : Let boil three gills of good milk, take it off the fire, introduce into it, gradually, with the aid of a spoon, two handfuls of grated fresh bread-crumb, so as to get a batter of not too great consistence; add to it a little salt, a pinch of sugar, and a little nutmeg; put the stewpan back on the fire, boil the preparation for a few minutes without leaving it; take it off the fire, let it nearly cool, stirring it; then introduce into it a piece of butter, six yolks of eggs, and last of all, four or five whipped whites, and cheese, operating as has just been said. 819. Cheese-tartlets. With the trimmings of puff-paste rolled out thin, line two dozen tartlet - moulds of a round or oval shape. — Put into a stewpan one tablespoonful of flour, four tablespoonfuls of grated parmesan, and six yolks of eggs; add to this two ounces of butter, and a pinch of sugar. Stir this preparation on a slow fire till the butter be dissolved, then take it off the fire, let it cool, introduce into it four whipped whites of eggs. With this preparation fill the moulds, range them on a baking- sheet, bake the cakes in a slack oven; when they are taken out, sprinkle over grated parmesan, and serve them without delay. 820. Talmouses, with cheese. Prepare four eggs of choux-paste (see sweetmeats), without sugar or zest, keeping it a little stiffer than is usually done; mix up with it four tablespoonfuls of gruyere-cheese, cut in little dice, and a pinch ot pepper or nutmeg. — Roll out nine ounces of puff-paste, divide it in rounds, by the aid of a large channeled paste-cutter; slightly moisten the edges of each of these flats, then set on their centre a small part ot the choux-paste; round this paste; egg it, then fold over the edges of