THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 234 ‘chafifroix’-sauce or simply coated with aspic-jelly. Place a group of chopped aspic-jelly on the centre. 534. Larded beef-fillet, with chateaubriand-sauce. Take a good tine beef-fillet, kept hung to the requisite degree of tenderness, trimmed and larded (see art. 32); mask the bottom of a loasting- pan, or else a baking-sheet, with chopped beef-fat, and some minced vegetables ; set the fillet then upon these vegetables, salt, and moisten it with a glassful of broth ; cover the meat with a buttered sheet of paper; push it into a slack oven, and roast it for three quarters of an hour, or for one hour, at the most, according to its size, but repeatedly basting it with its melted fat; drain it, place it on a dish, and baste it with Chateau- briand sauce (see art. 181) ; serve separately a vegetable-garnish. 535. ‘Tournedos’, Bearn-sauce. Take a piece of beef-fillet off the side of the head-piece; cut the meat slantwise, down the length of the fillet, into thin slices; slightly beat them, trim them to an equal shape, season, and place them on a dish; pour over some oil and lemon-juice, sprinkle over a minced onion,- and a few sprigs of parsley; let them macerate thus for two hours, turning them. — Warm some butter, and oil, m a flat and thin stewpan; rano-e these ‘tournedos’ in the stewpan one beside the other, let them try on a brisk fire, turning them; when they are at the degree requisite, drain off their fat, pour over a little liquid glaze; try them tor two minutes more, then dish them, in a circle, and pour into the middle a Bearn-sauce (see art. 168.) 536. Beefsteak-pudding. Line a pudding-basin with suet-paste (see art. 52). Cut some thin slices of beef (two pounds), such as for a pie. When they are trimmed and seasoned, range them in the basin, by layers, sprinkling over- chopped cooked mushrooms, and intermingling them with some s ices of raw potatoes, equally seasoned ; between meat and potatoes, distnbu c some little bits of kneaded-butter: this butter, in melting, mixing itself with the gravy of the meat, and thus forming the pudding-sauce , nevei- N -