2G4 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. Chop separately three quarters of a pound of fresh bacon, and a pound of lean veal or pork ; mix up this meat, add to it a third of its volume of softened bread-crumb well pressed out; season the mince with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; chop it for some minutes more, then introduce into it three raw yolks of eggs, two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion, and the same of equally chopped parsley. Slip this preparation into the hollow of the brisket, sew the meat all round, so as to leave no aperture; wrap it up in a tine cloth, bind it with thread on both sides, as well as in the middle, plunge it into a stock-pot, with water or broth in ebullition; if water, some salt and vegetables must be added to it, as for a soup. — The cooking-time of a brisket depends on its size : it will require two or three hours; when taken out of the stock-pot, drain it, unwrap it, untruss it, remove the bones of both the extremities, dish it, and mask the bottom of the dish with tomata-sauce (see art. 195). 593. Veal roasted in the stewpan. A slice of veal cut from the leg, a quasi {jump-loin), a cushion of veal, can successfully be roasted in the stewpan; if the operation is carried on carefully, which is besides of striking simplicity. The meat must first be trimmed, seasoned, tied with thread ; put it then into a stewpan proportionate to its volume, with butter and a piece of fresh bacon, cut in small dice; set the stewpan on a slow tire, let the meat fry, turning it frequently ; as soon as it has well set, cover the stewpan, put some tire on its lid, and thus finish roasting it without violence, turning it from time to time; when done, take it off the file, and dish it; pour a little gravy into the stewpan, let the liquid boil for a few moments, pour it on the meat, passing it through a sieve. 594. Veal-sweetbread, with macaroni. Choose two fine veal-sweetbreads, lard the finest with bacon, braise them both to a fine color, without doing them too much. — Boil a quarter of a pound of large macaroni, drain them, place them on a cloth, trans- versally cut them to the thickness of a fifth of an inch ; then range the rings against the sides of a buttered plain border-mould, applying the cut side against the mould ; interiorly support them with raw quenelle