THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 310 possible, this pie should not be taken out of the oven, till the moment ot serving it. Then remove the paper, as well as the mould, mask the bottom of the flat with a layer of raw force-meat, keep it at the entrance of the oven for live or six minutes. At the last moment, slip the pie on a round-dish, and garnish the interior with the ‘fricassee’, mixed with a few poached small ‘quenelles’, and a few mushrooms ; on the top place symmetrically the large ‘quenelles’, and the minion-fillets cooked at the moment; surround them with cocks’-combs and mushrooms, which mask with a little of the sauce kept by. 679. Chickens ‘a la paysanne’. Cut in thin slices, or else in small dice, a little garnish composed of roots of celery, carrots, and onions; but mind, that all these vegetables be fresh, as well as tender ; put them into a saute-pan, then baste with olive-oil, add a bunch ot aromatics, and a head of garlic not plucked. — Cut two middling-sized chickens, each of them into five parts ; place the legs ot the chickens on the vegetables, season with salt and a pinch of cayenne-pepper ; set the saute-pan on a brisk fire; five or six minutes after, cover it, and push it into a hot oven ; thus let the legs three-parts fry, turning them repeatedly ; now add the fillets and breast-piece, as well as two tomatas, the seeds of which are removed, and each of which is cut into six pieces; cover the saute-pan, and again push it into the oven. A quarter of an hour after, take the pieces of chicken out, and dish them in a group. Drain the fat off the vegetables, remove the bunch of aromatics, and add a few blanched olives; thicken the vegetables with a little melted glaze, let the sauce bubble up, but once; then finish it with a pinch of chopped leaves of taragon, and pour sauce as well as vegetables over the chickens. 680. ‘Croustades’ of bread, garnished. Remove the crust from a crumby loaf of household-bread of firm crumb, baked in a mould of square shape; divide the crumb into two long strips nearly two inches wide, and just as thick ; with the aid of a plain