THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 302 them on a support of fried bread, fixed to the centre ot the dish; sur- round them with a garnish composed of whole truffles, poultry cocks’- combs, and button-mushrooms. Glaze the truffles, mask mushrooms as well as cocks’-combs, with a little of good white-sauce, reduced with the mushrooms-liquor. Serve separately a boatful of this sauce. 665. Poultry-‘pain’ with ‘montglas*. Put into a pan a piece of butter, a shalot, and a small onion, well chopped ; a piece of ham cut in dice, some mushrooms cut like the ham, and at last fifteen poultry-livers; season the livers with salt and pepper, toss them on a brisk fire until they are done; pound them, with half their volume of panada; add a few tablespoonfuls of good sauce, two whole eggs, and eight yolks of eggs ; pass the preparation through a sieve, add to it five or six tablespoonfuls of chopped truffle, then two whipped whites of eggs ; pour the preparation into a cylinder-mould of low shape, being buttered and floured; set the mould in a stewpan, add boiling water to half its height, let the 'pain’ steam, at the entrance of the oven. — At serving-time, turn the 'pain’ out on a dish, fill the centie with a ‘montglas’ {see art. 40) of truffles and mushrooms ; mask it with a little madeira-sauce. 666. Poultry-‘salpicon’, with farced mushrooms. Take the fillets of one or two cooked chickens, remove their skin as well as the hard parts; cut them in little dice. Put this 'salpicon’ into a stewpan, mix it up with a third its volume of pickled tongue, some good pullet-livers, all of which cooked, and cut in the same way as the poultry ; then season the preparation with a pinch ot nutmeg, and keep it covered. Put into a flat stewpan some spoonfuls of good brown-sauce ; let it reduce gradually introducing into it five or six tablespoonfuls of melted glaze, and two of tomata-sauce; when it is succulent, add to it a pinch of cayenne-pepper, and take it off the fire ; introduce into it the ‘salpicon, serve it on a hot dish, surround it with a circle of farced mushrooms.