THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. jelly; till the hollow with alternate layers ol vegetables and poultry; keep the mould on the ice tor full an hour, then dip it into warm watei, and turn the salad out on a dish. 709. ‘Pain’ of stock-pot fowl. Pound the meat of the breast of a boiled fowl; add to it a third of its volume of panada ; season it with salt and nutmeg, introduce into it four or five tablespoonfuls of good ‘bechamel'-sauce, and at last, eight raw yolks of eggs; pass the preparation through a sieve or tammy; put it into a kitchen-basin, work it for two minutes with a spoon, then pour it into a little mould of round shape, provided with a cylinder, and previously buttered ; place the mould in a stewpan with boiling water, going just to half its height; let the preparation poach in the ‘bain-marie’, without ebullition, for three quarters of an hour; then take the stewpan off the £re# — At serving-time, turn the ‘pain’ out on a dish ; mask it with mushroom-sauce. 710. Goose-giblets with vegetables. Take two clean goose-giblets, that is, when the gall has been re- moved from the liver, as well as the crop from the gizzard; keep the liver by ; then singe the pinions, and feet, divide the neck and gizzard. Put the meat into a stewpan, with a little melted goose-fat, a quarter off a pound of cut streaky-bacon, six small onions, a bunch ot parsley gar- nished with aromatics, and a little salt; let it fry, stirring it; when it has taken color, sprinkle over a spoonful of flour ; four or five minutes after, moisten them to cover with broth or hot water; stir the liquid until ebullition, then remove it back to the side of the fire; fry the meat, for three quarters of an hour, on a very slow fire. Cut, either in balls, or to the shape of corkscrews, some good carrots, and the’same quantity of turnips; cut them with the aid of acolumn- tube : if the carrots are not very tender, they must be blanched pre- viously ; let the turnips fry on a brisk fire in a pan with butter, sa t, and a pinch of sugar. Mix the carrots and turnips now into the stew, add to it a pinch of white pepper : the vegetables and meat should be done at the same time.