452 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. Put six yolks of eggs into a sugar-pan, bray them, and dilute them with a gill and a half of boiling vanilla-syrup, not too still (25 degrees). Whip the preparation vigorously, on the fire, for two minutes, withdraw it, without ceasing to whip it, until it become quite cool again; whip it then on ice for seven or eight minutes longer; then incorporate, by the aid of a spoon, the value of two gills of whipped cream. With this preparation fill the ‘souffle’-dish {see draw. 302); shut 'the vessel down close, and cover it with a thick layer of salted ice; an hour after, renew the ice, cover it, and keep the‘souffle’thus, another hour. At serving-time, take out the ‘souffle’, sprinkle it all over with a pinch of biscuit-powder, mixed with some fine vanilla-flavored sugar. 978. Cream, with rum. Dissolve, with a glass of water, twelve or fourteen ‘gelatine’-leaves. Put eight yolks of eggs into a stewpan, with a spoonful of fecula, and four spoonfuls of powder-sugar ; work the preparation with a spoon, dilute it with a glassful of water, stir it on a slow fire until it be thickened; take it off the lire, the moment it begins starting to ebullition, pour it into a kitchen-basin, and let it cool. — Dilute four tablespoonfuls of apricot-marmalade with a glassful of good rum, then with the cream; pass the preparation through a sieve, mix up with it the ‘gelatine’, stir it for a few minutes on the ice, in order to thicken it; pour it into a cylinder-mould, surrounded with ice. When the cream has set, dip the mould into warm water, wipe it, and turn the cream out on a dish. 979. Apple-cream, with orange. Prepare a marmalade of rennet-apples with orange-zest, little sweetened, and reduced without excess; when it has nearly cooled, dilute it with the juice of three or four oranges, and then with eight leaves of ‘gelatine’ dissolved with a little water, the juice of a lemon, and a little sugar. Pass the preparation through a sieve, into a sugar-pan; which set on ice, and stir the preparation till it begins to thicken. Pom it then into a mould, previously surrounded with ice. After the lapse ot