THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 6 6 young- guests Carving of a goose or (luck. — If the o’eese and ducks are , without any impropriety the legs may also be distributed to the but when large and full grown, it is more convenient to leave them adhering to the carcass, without disengaging them. If a goose is to be carved easily, it must be placed by the carver before himself, in the same direction as shown by the drawing. The meat of both sides must be carved in slices not too thin, that is, what are called eguillettes ,* these fillets are placed on hot plates, and basted with a little good gravy: if the geese are stuffed, a little of the stuffing is added to each of the fillets. If one is obliged to serve also the legs of the goose, they are first disengaged from the carcass, then divided into middling-sized pieces by the aid of the carving-scissors. Young ducklings may be divided simply in four parts. Draw. 14. 7. Carving a roast hare. — Off a hare is generally served nothing but the back and legs, that is, in the conditions represented in the drawing at the chapter on game. In carving this roast, two methods may be followed. The first is, transversally carving the back and legs, leaving the bones adhering to the meat; for this manner of proceeding, the carving-scissors are indispensable ; yet this method is only adapted to tender, small young hares. The second method, consists in carving both the fillets of the back in turns, into thin slices, and slantwise, there- fore of course without touching the bones; in this case, the meat of the legs must equally be cut in slices. 8. Carving a roast saddle of deer, or roebuck. — The drawing of a larded saddle of deer will be found hereafter. The dish holding the roast must be set on the table crosswise, before the person charged with the carving; the side of the ribs turned to the left, as the saddle is commenced on this side. The slices must be cut thin, slantwise, and con- sequently long: they must be served on hot plates, pouring on a little gravy or sauce, accompanying the game.