THE HOUSEHOLD COOKEllY-BOOIv. 25G of calf’s head, well drained ; the sauce must cover them. Now remove the stewpan hack to the side of the tire ; a quarter ot an hour after, skim the fat off the sauce, which thicken with a few yolks of eggs. Take up the pieces of calf’s head with a fork, drain, and dish them, placing the ear in the middle. Mix into the sauce the juice of a lemon, pour it on a dish, passing it through a sieve. 577. Hot veal-pie. Take a piece of loin of veal, remove all its hones and hard parts, then cut the meat transversally into thin slices; season them with salt and pepper, range them on a pie-dish, alternating them with thin slices of raw ham or streaky bacon. Pour, on the bottom of the dish, a gill of good gravy, mixed with a little ketchup ; finish the pie proceeding as said, art. 537. 578. Roast round of veal. Cut a fine slice (rowMle) of veal, out of the largest diameter of a leg, five inches thick ; remove the centre-hone, which replace by a bread- stuffing ; support the meat by means of two iron-skewers, disposed through the meat, neatly wrap it up in buttered coarse paper, and put it on the cradle-spit; let it roast at a moderate fire, basting repeatedly. Half an hour previous to taking the fillet of veal off the spit, unwiap it, so as to let it take a nice color ; then salt it, take it off the spit, and place it on a baking-sheet; remove the thread, replace the iron-skewers by silver ones ; serve the meat with a few spoonfuls of clear good gravy; o-laze all the surfaces of the piece, and serve separately a dish of vege- tables, boiled in salted water or in steam; these vegetables being such as : carrots, cauliflowers, turnips, french-beans, and green-pease. 579. Leg of veal, with cream. Saw off the bone from the cushion of a small leg of veal, of fine white meat; shorten the bone, place the leg on a roasting-pan, baste it with butter; roast it in a slack oven, basting, and turning it repeatedly; when it is nearly done, salt it, sprinkle over a pinch of flour, and pom