323 POULTRY. — STEWED FOWL. drain its fat; moisten the livers with some spoonfuls of light brown- sauce, mixed up with the juice of a lemon, and a pinch of chopped parsley. 703. Stock-pot fowl, with curry. A fowl boiled in the stock-pot has the double advantage, of contri- buting highly to the goodness of the broth, and at the same time giving a very good appreciable dish, which may be served after the beef, without much pains or cost. Plunge a good, fat fowl into the stock-pot broth, an hour after it has been skimmed. — Half an hour previous to removing the fowl, prepare a little white-sauce {see art. 139) add to it two tablespoonfuls of curry-powder; when it is at the degree requisite, pass it through a sieve. Untruss the fowl, disengage both its legs, divide each of them in two, having first removed the paws ; cut then one fillet off each side of the breast, in order to be able to get five pieces ; range these pieces, as well as the legs, in a stewpan ; skim the fat off the sauce, which pass through a sieve, over the meat; let it simmer for a quarter of an hour, then thicken the stew with two yolks of eggs, diluted with a little cream, and dish it on a layer of rice, kept rather consistent. 704. Stewed fowl. Choose a large and fat fowl, singe it, draw it, wipe its interior with a cloth ; break the breast-bone with the point of a knife, in order to be able to remove it. — Prepare a fine mince of lean veal or pork, and bacon by halves, then with a piece of raw ham, a little handful of softened bread-crumb pressed out, a pinch of chopped onion, and another of chopped parsley; with this stuffing fill the interior of the fowl; sew up the breast, and the opposite aperture, truss it with its paws brought back. Melt in an earthen stock-pot half a pound of chopped bacon, to which add the fowl; let it take a light color on all its surface. Add to it a bunch of parsley garnished with aromatics, a clove of garlic, a hand- ful of morils or dry mushrooms, a large tomata cut in four pieces, some spices, and last of all, two boned calf’s feet, boiled in water for twenty 21*