THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 402 878. Braised lettuces. Choose the lettuces fresh, and with fine heart; remove their first leaves, wash them, changing the water several times, plunge them into boiling water, let them boil for five or six minutes; remove them with the skimmer, refresh them; extract their moisture, pressing them between the hands, fold them at the extremity, and range them, side by side, on the bottom of a stewpan spread with bacon ; season the lettuces, moisten them to height with unskimmed broth, cover them with a greased round of paper; braise them for an hour and a quarter on a slow fire, with hot ashes on the lid; when they are done, their moisture should prove reduced to glaze ; then drain them, dish them up, pour over them a little good gravy or brown-sauce. — Lettuce may be served as a garnish; it may be also farced with common force-meat, and then glazed. 879. Cauliflowers with mayonnaise. Distribute two heads of cauliflower in little flowrets; trim their stems to a point, let them boil in water, let the water be only salted when the cauliflower is nearly done; drain it, let it cool; place it in a kitchen-basin, season it with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar; then sprinkle over a pinch of parsley, and of taragon, both of which chopped ; one hour after, drain it on a sieve ; now take the flowrets up one by one, dish them up in a dome-like fashion, on a cold dish, masking each layer with a little egg-mayonnaise ; as soon as the dome is raised, mask the cauliflowers, also with a layer of mayonnaise. 880. Gratinated cauliflowers. When the cauliflowers are boiled and drained, let them cool; then divide them into flowrets, which range by layers on a gratin-disli, alter- nating these layers by a little ‘bechamel’-sauce, and sprinkling over them a little grated parmesan ; now mask them likewise with ‘bechamel -sauce, and again sprinkle over some grated parmesan; moisten them v ith butter; push them into a slack oven; let them gratinate tor twenty minutes, or else glaze them with the salamander. — Boiled cauliflowers may be served with butter-sauce, or Dutch-sauce.