THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 430 cinnamon, and a few spoonfuls of pounded sugar. With this paste, mask the bottom, and sides, of a chariot-mould well buttered, the bottom be km previously masked with a round of paper. Give the bread the thickness of not quite half an inch. Fill the hollow then of the chariot with a mince of apples, or of pears, cooked in the conditions prescribed art. 925, mixed with a little lemon-zest, chopped, and a pinch of cin- namon ; cover also the apples on the top with a layer of bread-crumb, moistening it with butter; place the mould on a baking-sheet, bake the chariot in a slack oven for twenty-five or thirty minutes; on taking it out, pass the blade of the knife between the bread and the mould, then turn the chariot over on to a dish; sprinkle it with fine powder-sugar flavored with cinnamon. 931. Surprise-apples. Roll out thin, nine ounces of puff-paste trimmings, or fine short- paste ; divide this flat into seven or eight squares. — Peel seven or eight middling-sized rennet-apples; hollow their middle with the aid of a tube, out of the column-box. Set one apple upon each of the squares of paste, butter them with the aid of the paste-brush, sprinkle over a little sugar, then fill the hollow of each of them, with some marmalade of pears, apples, plums, or apricots. Wet the edges of the paste, and with it wrap the apples up, soldering it on the top. Mask the soldering with a thin round of paste. Range the apples on a buttered baking-sheet, placing them at a little distance from one another, and thus bake them in a slack oven; ten minutes previous to taking them out of the oven, sprinkle over them fine sugar; when the^ are glazed, dish them up. 932. Apples with currants. With the aid of a column-tube, hollow the centre of six fine rennet- apples, without peeling them ; range them on a buttered gratin-dish; fill the hollow of each of these apples with well cleansed currants, previously softened in tepid water; slightly sweeten them; place a little bit of butter on each of the apples, sprinkle over a little sugar or cassonade; pour a few spoonfuls of white-wine on the dish; bake the apples in a slack oven, for twenty-five minutes ; serve them on the same dish.