MELON-. RASPBERRY-, CURRANT-, ICES ; ICE-CHEESE, SORBETS. 495 and then set in cheese-moulds, that is, in moulds of conical form, either plain or channeled, but with movable compartments;• these compartments serve for separating the different ingredients the cheese is composed of. In order to prepare an ice-cheese, in the first place the mould must be packed up with salted ice, then the ices are introduced, species by species, into each of the compartments allotted thereto ; if no mould with compartments should be at disposal, the various ices may be ranged in the mould, by horizontal layers, in alternate shades. If the mould is provided with com- partments, the movables sides are removed as soon as the mould is tilled, disengaging them with the aid of a warmed knife ; the ice is then pressed close, so as to leave no free space in the interior; the mouth of the mould is covered, firstly with a large round of paper, then with its lid, closing it up hermetically; the mould is then completely masked with pounded and salted ice, this ice is covered with a cloth, and the cheese is kept thus for two hours ; particular care must be taken, that the water in the bucket, coming from the melting of the ice, never comes up to the height of the mould. At serving-time, the mould is dipped into water, wiped, and the ice- cheese is turned out on a folded napkin. 1074. ‘Sorbets’, with champagne. Sorbets are a sort of thin ices (mciigres), that is: light, not much set, nor very consistent; they are served in ice-glasses ; they are often served at dinner, as Roman punch is, before or after the roast. Proportions: a pint of syrup, half a bottle of champagne, the juice of two oranges and one lemon, and various zests. Lighten the syrup with half of the wine, and the lemon- and orange-juice ; infuse the zests for a quarter of an hour, pass the preparation through a sieve, give it eighteen degrees at the syrup-scale, let it freeze in the ice-box, work- ing it with the spattle ; when the ice has set, gradually add to it the remainder of the champagne, mixed with a little syrup.