ELEMENTARY METHODS. - COLD SAUCES. 79 the juice of two oranges and two lemons, add to it the zest of an orange .grated on sugar, a little salt, a pinch of cayenne-pepper and nutmeg; pour the sauce into a sauceboat. — This sauce may be served indifferently with either warm or cold dishes. 203. How to prepare ‘Cumberland’- sauce. - Remove the zest of me orange and two lemons, but without leaving a particle of white peel adhering to them ; shred these zests into ‘julienne’, let them boil in water; when tender, drain them, put them into a kitchen-basin, add then 11 ta^lespoonful of good mustard, a pinch of ginger, another of cayenne- uepper, four tablespoonfuls of madeira, the zest of a little ‘bigarrade’ or .oeen orange, the juice of a lemon, the juice of an orange, then eight or en tablespoonfuls of currant-jelly; the utmost possible care should be alien, not to work the jelly, lest it take a dim color; last of all, add to he sauce a little salt, a few drops of vinegar, and two spoonfuls of •hopped shalots, boiled in a little vinegar, or lemon-juice. The last ddition is manifestly optional, as it is not every body that relishes This sauce is commonly served with wild-boar, or any cold ' oast of game or venison. 204. How to prepare cold horseradish-sauce, with cream. — Chop ' ve or six tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish; put it into a ldtchen- 'aSm, mix itwith the same volume of fresh bread-crumb; season the i reparation with salt, a tablespoonful of powder-sugar, and a few drops t vinegar; incorporate this preparation with five or six tablespoonfuls i shipped ciearn. this sauce is sent to accompany cold beef, as well •s hot roast-beef. 20o. How to prepare cold higarrade-sauce. - Pour into a basin a lassf ul of currant-jelly; dilute it with a few tablespoonfuls of claret, add > it the zest of a ‘bigarrade’ (seville orange) grated on sugar, as well as 10 zest ot a ‘bigarrade’, minced and boiled in water. 200. How to prepare limiter’s chaufroix-sauce. — Boil three gills i own-sauce, mixed with the same volume of well-skimmed game-