THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 294 three-parts done, add to them a garnish composed of small carrots, tur- nips, and blanched small onions 5 season the vegetables, cover the stew- pan, finish the stew on a moderate tire, with hot ashes on the lid ot the stewpan, or else at the entrance of the oven; add the liver, last of all, as well as a spoonful of brandy. When the meat and vegetables are done, serve them in a deep dish, remove the bunch, skim the sauce, and pass it through a sieve over the meat. 652. Giblet-pie. Take two clean turkey-giblets (less the livers); let them blanch for a few minutes, then trim them ; place them in a stewpan with butter, a pinch of chopped onion, and half a pound of cut streaky-bacon ; season, and let them fry on a very slow lire for halt an hour ; then moisten them with a glassful of white win§; and keep the ebullition up until the wine has evaporated. Remove then the meat, place it in a pie-dish, the bottom of which is masked with thin slices of beef; sprinkle over a pinch of chopped parsley, add the blanched livers. Pour a little broth into the stewpan, let it boil for five minutes, skim off its fat, thicken it with a small piece of kneaded-butter, pass it through a sieve, and pour it on the dish. Then finish the pie, proceeding as directed, art. o37. 653. ‘Pain’ of turkey-liver. Remove the gall from seven or eight turkey-livers, which divide in pieces, put them into a frying-pan, with half their volume of bacon cut in thin squares; add some blades of aromatics, parsley-leaves, some minced mushrooms, a pinch of chopped shalots; season, and let them fry on a brisk fire until they have well set; then moisten with two or three tablespoonfuls of madeira; let the wine reduce quickly, and take the pan off the fire, in order to let the livers cool; then pound them with a third their volume of panada, and pass them through a sieve; put the force-meat into a kitchen-basin, add to it a whole egg, and six or seven yolks of eggs, doing so gradually, and working the preparation with a wooden spoon; after the eggs, introduce a little reduced sauce, or simply a little melted glaze, and two or three spoonfuls of truffles cut in dice; when the mixture is operated, pour the preparation into a