158 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. is nearly absorbed ; then remove it back on a very slow tire, and finish boiling it thus ; it must set well, and be ot a nice consistence ; take it off the fire, introduce into it a piece of butter, a handful of grated parmesan, and a pinch of nutmeg; pour it into a buttered saute-pan, so as to give the layer of rice the thickness of two inches ; press it close, smoothe its surface, leave it to cool for two or three hours. Take a round paste-cutter of an inch diameter, dip it in warm water, and with it, cut out of the rice, cutting it through and through, twelve little ‘timbales’; take them out of the stewpan, breadcrumb them twice; set them upright, cern their upper surface with a plain paste-cutter of nearly an inch diameter; plunge them into hot frying-fat, and let them take a nice color, whereupon drain them ; now remove the cover with the aid of a little knife, empty them, leaving only the thickness ot a sixth of an inch at the bottom and sides ; immediately fill them with partridge-puree; place on the puree a slice ot cooked truffle; glaze it, and dish the ‘timbales’ on a folded napkin. 374. Fried pullet-livers. Remove the gall from some good pullet-livers ; season them, flour them, dip them into beaten eggs, whereupon breadcrumb them; a few minutes previous to serving, plunge them into plenty ot trying-fat, care- fully covering the pan, as the livers occasion the trying-tat to splash. When the livers are done, drain them, slightly salt them, and dish them up in a group on a tolded napkin, with halves ot lemons lound. 375. Stuffed chicken-‘boudins’. Prepare a little poultry-‘salpicon’ with truffles, thickened with some well reduced sauce, and finished with a little good glaze; let it cool well. Butter fifteen tartlet-moulds of cutlet-shape (see drawing 125) ; mask them all round, and on the bottom, with a layer of quenelle force-meat {.see art. 117) of the thickness of a quarter of an inch; upon this layer place a part of the preparation previously got ready, cut to the shape ot