208 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. butter; give it two bubblings more, and take the stewpan off tbe fiic; remove tbe bunch, finish the sauce, introducing into it the blood of the eels; give one bubbling only, serve the stew on a dish, the bottom of which is masked with bread-crusts, dried on the gridiron. 487. Cold-pie of eel. Take a large eel, cleanse it, strip its skin, divide it into thick pieces; split these pieces on one side, in order to bone them; lard the flesh with salted anchovy-fillets, and truffle-fillets; put them into a kitchen-basin, season them with salt and spices. — Melt in a stewpan, six ounces of chopped bacon, add to it the pieces of eel, sprinkle over a few spoonfuls of chopped truffles, toss them for a few minutes, moisten them with a quarter of a glassful of white wine ; cover the stewpan, boil the fish, until the moisture be reduced ; remove then the stewpan off the fire, let the fish cool. — On the other hand, cut in pieces a pound and a half oi pike-flesh, add to this the trimmings of the pieces of eel, pound them, take them out of the mortar. Chop a pound and a half of fresh bacon, and put it by; pound then two or three truffles with their volume of panada, as well as with the fillets of some anchovies ; gradually add the pounded fish and bacon; season this force-meat highly, pass it through ci sieve. Butter a cold-pie-mould of round shape, set it on a baking-sheet covered with a sheet of paper, line it with short-paste (see art. o7, oS); mask the bottom, and sides of the paste, with a layer of force-meat, range the pieces of eel in the hollow, in alternate layers with force-meat; raise the preparation in a dome-like fashion, set on the top of this dome a bay-leaf, cover it with a flat of paste, the edges of which press to the protruding rim of the case, having moistened it with the paste-brush Cut the paste straight two thirds of an inch above the rim of the mould (see draw. 158); then with the aid of paste-pincers, pinch this crest on its top, as well as on its outside. Make a little hole at the top of the dome; gather the trimmings of the paste, which then roll out thin; divide tins paste in strips, out of which cut lozenges; form these lozenges into leaves, applying them with the back of the knife; moisten the dome,