THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 468 draw. 333 represents the baked cake. — On taking them out of the oven, set them in the hot-closet, and keep them thus for two or three hours ; then turn the biscuits out. — Rheims-biscuits are served with the dessert, they are commonly eaten by dipping them into champagne ; yet a receipt will be now given, how to serve them also as an entremets. 1011. Rlieims-biscuits, with cream and kirsch. This sweetmeat, although simple, yet is very estimable. — Place a dozen Rheims-biscuits in a deep dish, pour over them some good kirsch, in order to soak them thoroughly, then mask them with cold vanilla, or lemon-cream prepared in the conditions prescribed, art. 889, and serve them immediately. 1012. Conde-cakes. Mix up in a kitchen-basin four spoonfuls of chopped almonds with an equal quantity of powder-sugar; dilute them gradually with whites of eggs, so as to obtain a liquid batter. Form a strip of trimmings of puff-paste, keep it of a long shape, giving it two or three inches of width; mask the surface of this strip, with the almond-preparation, then cut it straight on the sides, and cut the cakes transversally to the thickness of an inch ; remove these pieces, when cut, with the aid of the blade of a knife, and range them, at a little distance from one another, on a baking-sheet; sprinkle over fine sugar, bake them in a slack oven; when they are cold, dish them up. 1013. Apple-tartlets. Line the tartlet-moulds with sweetened paste prepared as said for pear-timbale (see art. 912). Cut some apples up in quarters, peel them, and mince them trans- versally, so that the slices be not too broad; put them into a kitchen- basin, sprinkle over lemon-sugar, and a handful ot currants ; let them macerate for an hour ; then fill up the moulds, letting the apples bulk out; cover the apples with a round of the same paste, solder it to the edges of the flat; bake the tartlets in a slack oven for forty minutes; when they are taken out of the oven, sprinkle over them powder-sugai.