THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 84 that employed for kitchen use must be pure, clear, and limpid ; hard water is quite unfit for cooking purposes. _ The process for cooking broth is one of the greatest simplicity, rat in this very simplicity is found the difficulty. In the first place the water, meat, and salt, are placed alone in the pot; which is set on a mode,ate tire so that the skim or scum rises gradually to the surface ot the liquid: broth not well skimmed at the outset, will never become cleai, am always preserves a taste of albumen, that is very disagreeable. As soon as the ebullition begins, the pot must be removed to the side of the fire, so as to present only the least possible surface to the action of the tire (see the drawing 08); by this means the liquic, joi ing ju partially, does not become troubled, but remains limpid: 111s is mystery of the operation. In great kitchens, the cooking of the stock-pot is managed with gas- . ,1 The introduction of the other meat, and of the vegetables into the pot, must take place in regular order. The knuckle ot veal may be in 10- duced at the same time as the beef, but then it must be watched, and removed as soon as done. The fowl should be introduced into the pot at the same time with the vegetables, yet these vegetables themselves are not introduced all at a time : those wanting longest time to coot, aic first the others following; the true theory consists in aiming at important result, that all the meat, and vegetables prove done at the sam time, and be done nearly at the time of serving the stock-pot. A stock-pot takes from five to six hours cooking, according to the size of the meat, taking care, however, that neither meat nor vegetables C°0kTli°e’stock-pot, in its true expression, represents nothing but the soup of the day, that is to say, that the broth, produced by it, is specia y “d to prlpace the variety ot preparations - Je H J? J^^my ; instead saucepan, but one essential pom ,. V J trimmings of meat, bones of choice pieces, employ those ox mi