420 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. into a glazed basin. Work it with a spoon till beginning to get frothy, then add to it nearly half a pound of fresh butter, divided in little bits, and introducing it gradually. The preparation being frothy, and light, add to it a light orange-sugar, and four or five tablespoonfuls of rum, kirsch, or cognac; then pour into a sauceboat. The plum-pudding may be served, however, either with a butter- or rum-sauce, or with a syrup of punch. 911. Semolina-pudding, arrowroot-sauce. Boil a pint of milk, adding a pinch of salt, and a little lemon-peel; remove it to the side of the tire, incorporate with it live ounces of semo- lina, letting it fall in a shower; cook the semolina for a quarter of an hour ; then sweeten it with sugar: it must not be too consistent; pour it into another saucepan, mix with it three ounces of butter, five yolks of eggs (one after the other), then a handful of well cleansed raisins, and lastly four whipped whites of eggs. — Butter a chariot-mould, flour it, and three-fourths till it with the preparation. Set the mould in a saucepan, with hot water up to half the height of the mould ; steam the pudding for forty minutes; after which, turning it over on a dish, mask it with the sauce following: Arrowroot-sauoe. — Dilute two dessertspoonfuls of arrowroot with two gills of milk, or of white-wine, add sugar and a morsel of zest; stir the preparation on a slow fire ; when it is thick enough, remove it to the side; ten minutes after, take out the zest, add a few spoonfuls of rum, of maraschino, or of any other liqueur ; pour the sauce over the pudding. 912. Pear-‘timbale’, with raisins. Prepare a short-paste with half a pound of flour, flve ounces ot butter, three ounces of powder-sugar, two whole eggs, a grain of salt, and a little water. With this paste, line a buttered dome-mould. Divide into quarters a dozen good pears; peel them, mince them, put them into a stewpan with butter, let them boil on a slow fire ; when half- done, sweeten them ; as soon as their moisture is reduced, add to them