THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 288 644. Stew of lamb, with rice. Cut into middling-sized squares, a shoulder or brisket of lamb, put these into a stewpan with butter; let them fry on a brisk tire, until they have taken a nice color; add to them a little chopped onion, some tablespoonfuls of raw ham cut in dice, some salt, some pepper, and a clove of garlic; let them all fry for some minutes more, then moisten them to height with broth ; let the liquid boil for three minutes, then remove it back to a slow tire ; when the lamb is nearly done, add to it the rice requisite (a glassful of rice to two glassfuls of liquid); boil the stew again, for a quarter of an hour, in a stewpan kept Covered ; then remove it to the entrance of the oven, so that the rice may boil, preserving its grains whole ; when done, dish it. 645. Lamb-stew with artichokes. This is a simple dish, little costly, and requiring but little care or skill; it may be served for a luncheon of ‘amateurs’. — Trim seven or eight young artichokes, that is, very tender ; remove all the hard parts of the bottom and leaves, and cut each of them in two lengthwise; salt them,, and keep them by for after-use. Cut in pieces a small leg, or two necks, of lamb ; put this meat into a frying-pan with chopped bacon, a bit of sage, and a clove of garlic; season the pieces, fry them on a brisk fire, tossing them ; when they have taken a nice color, moisten them with half a glassful of white wine; add to them the cut artichokes well wiped; season the artichokes ; cover the pan with a lid, remove it back to the entrance of the oven; finish boiling the stew gently; when the lamb and artichokes are done, the gravy must nearly be reduced to glaze ; then add to it a little chopped parsley, and the juice of two lemons ; dish the stew, and surround it with the halves of artichokes. 646. Lamb’s pluck (fraissure), stewed. Cut in squares a lamb’s liver, lungs, and heart. Fry two tablespoon- fuls of chopped onion in a thin stewpan with butter ; when it is of a fine