119 FISH-SOUPS. of eels, place them in the tureen; add an onion previously minced in small rounds, then gently fried, and colored with butter in a skillet. Pour the soup into the tureen. 293. Perch soup, a la waterfish. — Boil five or six well cleansed perch, in white wine and fish-broth; drain them, let them cool, and remove their fillets ; divide these fillets, and keep them warm in a little stewpan. With three ounces of butter and the same of flour, prepare a little ‘roux’, without allowing it to take color ; dilute it with two quarts of the perch-stock, stir the liquid on the fire till it begins to boil, then remove it back to the side, mix up with it some vegetables and a bunch of parsley; thirty-five minutes after, skim off its fat, and strain the liquid ; then add to it a ‘julienne’ of roots previously blanched, composed of carrots, parsley-root, and celery-root; boil the soup for ten or twelve minutes, thicken it with a liaison of a few yolks of eggs, mix up with it the perch-fillets, and pour it into the tureen. 294. Lobster-soup. — Prepare some soup-stock (see art. 287) with fish-broth ; let it boil, on the side of the fire, for twenty minutes. — Divide in two parts the tail of a boiled lobster, cut the meat into small dice, which shut up in a stewpan, and keep by. — Remove the creamy parts from the body-shell, pound the upper shell, as well as the small claws, and the (cornet) shell, and mix them into the soup ; a few minutes after, pass this soup through a sieve; finish it with a little harvey-sauce, and a little cayenne-pepper ; add to it the lobster-meat in dice, pour it into the tureen. 295. Oyster-soup, with cream. — Oyster-soup is indeed a very excellent and distinguished soup, does not cost more than any other, and requires no long preparations. For this double reason it is highly to be recommended. — Open three or four dozen oysters ; if they are small, there must be a dozen more of them ; blanch them in a flat stewpan with half a bottle of white wine (art. 48). — With four ounces of butter, and >. the same of flour, prepare a light ‘roux’, without allowing it to take color; dilute it quite gently with the liquor of the oysters, and a quart of broth with or without meat. Stir the liquid until ebullition, remove it back to