148 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKEHY-BOOIv. Instead of masking the ‘salpicon’ with a layer of force-meat, these cutlets may simply be prepared, by mixing into the force-meat by turns the poultry, the truffles, the pickled tongue, and the mushrooms cut in dice in this case, the total of the ‘salpicon’ must be of an equal quantity with the force-meat, but care must be taken to add to the ‘salpicon’ a few spoonfuls of melted glaze, or of good cooled sauce. When the cutlets are fried and drained, to each of them is fitted (on the pointed end) either a piece of parsley-stem, or else a fillet of truffle, in imitation of the bone. The cutlets are then dished in a circle, on a folded napkin; the hollow of the circle is garnished with fried parsley. 352. Truffle -‘cromesquis’. Boil in the stock-pot one or two calf-udders (t Stine), let them cool, trim them, divide them into thin slices off their largest side; slightly beat these slices, so as to diminish their thickness. Prepare a croquette-preparation composed of white meat of poultry, fat-livers, and cooked truffles, cut up to dice ; thicken it with some reduced white-sauce, let it cool on ice, spreading it in a layer the third part of an inch thick ; divide it then into equal portions, of a half-flat shape. Now mask each part of the preparation with one or more slices of udder, so as completely to wrap them up. At serving-time, dip the ‘cromesquis’, one by one, into frying-paste, immediately plunge them into hot fat, so as to impart to them a nice color; drain them, dish them up in a pyramid on a folded napkin, set a bunch of fried parsley on their top. 353. Lamb-cutlets, ‘en papillotes’. Take eighteen half-sheets of paper, of a white but rather thick soit; fold them up, and cut them to half the figure of a heart, so that the piece cut out, when opened, shows nearly the shape of a heart; slightly oil the paper, and put it by. Trim nicely eighteen lamb-cutlets, seasfti them, range them m a saute-pan, with melted bacon ; let them fry, turning them ; when the) aie