312 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. stir the sauce on the fire until ebullition, remove it back on the side o the fire ; add to it a small onion, a bunch of parsley garnished witj aromatics, some trimmings of ham, and raw mushrooms. Twenty-fiv minutes after, skim the fat off the sauce, let it reduce to the degre* requisite, introducing into it a little broth ; pass it, through a sieve, ove the pieces of chicken, let it boil for ten minutes ; thicken it with a liaisoi of three yolks of eggs, diluted with a little good cream. Dish up tlr pieces of poultry, finish the sauce with a piece of fine butter, au< the juice of a lemon; pour it over the chickens, passing it through ; sieve. — Sometimes there is added to the sauce a pinch of parsley o mushrooms: this addition being a matter of taste. — The article 68- describes a simpler method of procedure. 682. Saute of chickens. The method about to be described, may serve as a model for all th preparations of chickens-‘sautes’. — Peel some middling-sized truffles put them into a small stewpan with some salt, and a little wine, boil thei shortly previous to employing them ; boil an equal quantity of buttor mushrooms, with a piece of butter, and the juice of a lemon. Take two good, singed and drawn chickens, cut off their paws, an pinions , dissengage their legs, divide their breast into three parts : tw fillets, and one breast-piece. Cut the body-bones in two. Break the bon of the thick part of the leg with the back of a knife, in order to be able t remove it; immediately range the legs of the chickens on the bottom c a buttered flat stewpan ; add to them the pinions, necks, and body-bones season, and let them fry on a slow fire, turning them ; when half-cookec add to them the fillets, and breast-pieces, a bunch of parsley garnishe with aromatics, and a clove of garlic; when the meat has well set, tak it out of the flat stewpan with the aid of a skimmer, and place it i another stewpan; add the truffles. Drain the fat off the stewpan, put into it the trimmings of the truffle: moisten them with half a glassful of madeira ; give the liquid then a fe bubblings, mix up with it double its volume of brown-sauce, and th truffles’ liquor; boil the sauce on a brisk fire for ten minutes ; skim it