ELEMENTARY METHODS. - GRAVY, GAME-EXTRACT. 55 124. How to prepare game force-meat, ‘an gratin’. — These force- meats are prepared indifferently with the meat of veal, poultry, or game; such as pheasant, young-partridges, rabbits, etc. Trim a pound of game-meat, which cut into little pieces, and fry it with rasped bacon, some truffle-trimmings, and some poultry-livers. Gradually add the pounded meat, three yolks of eggs, one whole egg; then season the force-meat, pass it through a sieve, and then put it into a kitchen- basin ; work it with the spoon, gradually introducing into it a little glaze, a little sauce, and a few tablespoonfuls of raw force-meat. 125. How to prepare gravy. — Even in small kitchens, gravy is an auxiliary not to be dispensed with. The method of preparing gravy, according to the rules most approved, is prescribed art. 169 ; it seems well however, that a simpler method should be also given, better adapted to the working and requirements of a middle-class kitchen. Butter the bottom of a stewpan proportioned to the quantity ot meat; this is composed of trimmings of beef and veal ; the pieces must not be too large; put them into the stewpan with some minced onions, carrots, celery - roots ; set the stewpan on a moderate fire; turn the meat repeatedly, so as to impart color to every part of its surface ; when it is of a nice color, moisten it with a little common white wine, which let reduce to glaze; moisten then the meat to its height with light broth; add to the liquid some aromatics, some trimmings ot raw poultry, or some roasted carcasses; skim it carefully, and at the first bubbling remove it back to the side of the fire, so that.it may boil but partially. When the meat is done, skim the fat off the gravy, pass it through a sieve, or a napkin, into a large kitchen-basin ; let it settle, clarify it, let it reduce till it be succulent, or else employ it as it is. 126. How to prepare game - extract. — Spread a stewpan with minced vegetables, and some slices of raw ham ; on this, layer place a few raw body-bones of partridge, or pheasant; moisten to quarter their height with broth, which quickly reduce to glaze; this done, moisten the meat to cover, also employing broth or jelly-broth; start the liquid to