THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 172 chopped mushrooms, and a little parsley likewise chopped. ~S\ ith this preparation, mask the surface of the turbot, sprinkle over dry bread- crumb of a yellow color, pour on a little melted butter; push the dish into a brisk oven, so as to gratinate the fish on the upper surface ; take it out, and serve immediately. 407. Turbot vinaigrette. If turbot is served whole, it will be easy on the following day to prepare an excellent 'vinaigrette with the remains of the fish. — Cut the fish in regular slices, put these slices into a kitchen-basin, season them with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar, let them macerate thus. Cut into small dice three cooled potatoes, boiled with their skin on; put them into another basin with a quarter their volume of preserved gerkins, also cut in dice, the same of cooled beetroot, and french-beans; add two spoon- fuls of whole capers, and at last five or six cut anchov) -fillets. Season all these vegetables with oil, vinegar, mustard, and a very little salt, let them macerate thus for full an hour. Dish the fish and vegetables in a pyramid, with a fine circle of preserved and farced olives ; pour on the fish a mixture of oil, vinegar, mustard, chopped parsley, chopped chives, and taragon leaves. 408. Turbot with bechamel-sauce. Take half of a small turbot raw or cooked; if it is raw, boil it m salted water, if cooked, warm it in its own cooking-stock ; in either case, it must be warm, and well drained. While the turbot boils, prepare a little bechamel-sauce (see art. 141), let it reduce without leaving it, mix- ing into it the liquor of some fresh mushrooms, as well as a little good raw cream, so as to get it succulent and consistent; take it off the tire, and thus introduce into it a piece either of fresh butter, or else of Cray- fish-butter. > . Drain the turbot, remove all the bones and skin; divide the flesh m pieces, which range on the bottom of a flat long dish, alternating the layers with a little of the previously prepared sauce. Mask its surface with the remainder of the sauce, on which sprinkle a handful of fresh