34 THE household cookery-book again: now the paste lias two turns ; in this condition it must he left to | rest in a cool place for ten minutes; then the operation is begun anew, riving it two turns more; let it rest for ten minutes, previous to giving ,t the last two turns, always proceeding according to the first method. One obstacle carefully to be avoided, is the butter escaping from the paste; this happens, if the paste be too soft, rolled out too thin, or no rolled out regularly to a flat, that is, if it remains thicker on one side than on the other. It is not always necessary to give the paste six turns, oft n one gives it but five turns and a halt- In summer it is very difficult to get good puff-paste, without the help of ice, or a good cellar; but this inconvenience may be obviated, oy replacing the butter with beef-suet. This suet must previously be well plucked, then soaked in fresh water, well drained, and then pounded, order to be converted into smooth paste. Then some suppleness is given it, by working it in a cloth, till at the degree required. 55 How to prepare short-paste, - Short-paste is employed either to form paste-flats, or else to line the bottom of the dish for Pies' 1 ‘S prepared more or less fine, according to the employment it is intended • he more the quantity of butter is augmented the finer the pas e wd b* For paste, serving to spread inside the pie-dish . third bdf»to pound will do. — Strain a pound of flour on the clean table gatli with the hands, form a hollow in its centre; in this centre one yolk of egg, a pinch of salt, and a quarter of a glass of ate . I Z right hanffi,-St knead the butter, gradually introduce into it the flour, r;;Cget the paste smooth; to make it ‘short’ C*™-), it must be passed by turns beneath the palm of both hands, piisimg i 01 "a and at the same time pressing it against the table. This done, bring it ao-ain together and shorten it once more, sometimes even a third time, it must any-how he smooth, and compact: then wrap it up in a cloth, an let it rest, for an hour, in a cool place. 56 How to whip whites of eggs. - The whites of eggs, which are to be whipped, must he chosen fresh ; they are separated from the y Ik with the utmost care, then put into an untinned basin, and mixed with a