THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 340 (Jn the other hand, take the veilison-gravy, having remained in the dish or fallen into the dripping-pan, mix up with it halt a glassful ot madeira, let it reduce to half-glaze, thicken it with a little arrowroot, diluted cold; give the sauce a few bubblings up, and finish it with a piece of glaze, and two tablespoonfuls of currant-jelly. When the jelly has melted, pour the sauce on the venison-slices cut up ; warm them, without allowing them to boil. Place the hash on a well-warmed dish, which set upon a liotwater-dish freehand'),-and sene. 738. Hash of roebuck. Take a piece of roasted saddle, or quarter, ot roebuck, carefully trim away its sinewy parts ; cut the meat in thin and narrow slices. Pour into a stewpan a glassful of brown-sauce, or thickened gravy , let it reduce one third, adding gradually a few spoonfuls of good \inegai, and at last, a spoonful of currant-jelly ; give the sauce a few bubblmgs more, add to it the slices of roebuck ; sprinkle over the latter a pinch of pepper, remove the stewpan back on a slow fire, so as to warm the meat without ebullition, and keeping the stewpan covered. — At serving-time, place the stew in a well warmed dish, surround it with fried bread- crusts, glazed with the paste-brush. ^ 739. ‘Chaufroix’ of roebuck. For this preparation it is convenient to have at disposal half of a roasted or braised saddle of roebuck; if none such be handy, the cushion of a quarter of roebuck may be employed, but the tillets are preferable. However this may be, cut the meat in slices not too thin, trim these to an equal dimension: a dozen will be required at least, mask them with brown-‘chaufroix’-sauce (.see art. 206), dipping them one by one, by the aid of a large fork : they must remain coated with a layer of the sauce; range them gradually at intervals on a baking-sheet, and let the sauce cool; then remove the fillets, trim, and dish them in a circle on a layer of aspic-jelly, set on the bottom of a dish; fill the centre with chopped aspic-jelly.