THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 166 391. Soft-roes, ‘a la Villeroi’. Choose live solt-roes of carp, let them soak, boil them tor a tew moments in acidulated water, only to get them firm ; immediately drain them, put them into a saute-pan, season them, add to them a few spoon- fuls of cooked fine-herbs, thickened with a little melted glaze; let them cool together, then take them up, one by one, dip them into ‘Yilleroi- sauce, and place them on a baking-sheet, in order to let the sauce get firm ; then disengage them from the baking-sheet, roll them m bread- crumb ; dip them into beaten eggs, to breadcrumb them again; plunge them into plenty of hot fat; when they are of a nice color, drain them on a cloth, then dish them, in a group, on a napkin. 392. Oysters, ‘a la Villeroi’. Blanch five or six dozen large oysters with a glassful of white wine; immediately when poached, drain and trim them ; fasten them together by two, and mask them with Villeroi’-sauce; range them, one by one, on a baking-sheet, and thus let them cool; breadcrumb them twice, and at serving-time, plunge them into plenty of hot fat, try them to a nice color, drain, and dish them on a napkin, with a bunch of fried parsley. 393. Muscles, ‘a la Villeroi’. Choose fine fresh muscles, wash them, changing the water five or six times, throw out the sinewy strings corresponding with the inside; then place the muscles in a stewpan with a glass of white wme; set the stewpan on the fire, toss the muscles till they open, then drain them on a sieve; pick them out of their shells, let them cool; dip them, one by one, into Villeroi-sauce, and range them on a baking - sheet; when the sauce has cooled, breadcrumb them twice, plunge them into hot tat; when they have taken a nice color, drain, and dish them on a napkin, with a bunch of fried parsley. 394. Small ‘vol-au-vents’ of ox-palate. Above I have given the method of preparing small Vol-au-vents’. - Take two or three cooked and cooled ox-palates, which cut in small dice;