231 BEEF. — MUZZLE, GRENAD1NS, MARROW. oblong shape ; slightly beat these slices, trim them regularly, then lard them on one surface with bacon or raAV truffles ; season, and range them on a buttered flat stewpan ; now set the stewpan on a brisk tire; four or five minutes after, push them into the oven, and finish baking them; when they are taken out, drain off the fat, baste them with two table- spoonfuls of madeira-wine and a little melted glaze ; let the liquid reduce. — On the other hand, put into a stewpan the trimmings of the truffles, with a quarter of a glassful of madeira, and half a glassful of gravy; Draw. m. add to it a garnished bunch of parsley. Let the liquid boil for five or six minutes, pass it then through a sieve ; thicken it Avith a piece of kneaded- butter; give it one bubbling. Dish these ‘grenadins’, and pour the sauce all round. 528. Taupiettes’ of beef-fillet. Cut, off the head-piece of a trimmed fillet of beef, some slices, rather long, than wide; beat these slices Avith the flat part of a chopper, trim them square, and to an equal shape ; season and mask them on one side, with a thin layer of veal-force-meat, mixed up Avith a little cooked fine- herbs ; roll them up, so as to shut up the force-meat; tie them with thread, range them in a flat stewpan, let them fry in butter for a feAV minutes; moisten them Avith broth, which let reduce to glaze ; add a little Avhite Avine and broth ; let the ‘paupiettes’ be braised on a sIoav fire, and short of moisture, for twenty-five minutes ; they should then prove avcII glazed; untruss them, and dish them; lighten their cooking- stock with a little thickened gravy, and pass it, through a sieA7e, over the ‘paupiettes’. 529. Marrow-bones. Sa\vr asunder the bones of tAvo legs of beef, into thick pieces of equal length (three or four inches); scrape the surface of the bones, in order to cleanse them well, let them soak then in cold Avater, and put them side by side, but not in an upright position ; cover them largely Avith broth of the stock-pot; let the liquid boil, immediately remove it back to the