THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 388 837. Crust with mushrooms. Choose two dozen fresh, very firm, and not too large hot-bed mushrooms; separate the stems or feet, from the heads, or buttons, which wash quickly and spunge carefully ; put them into a stewpan with butter, season them, let them fry, till all their moisture be gradually evaporated; pour over them a little white-sauce, and remove them back on a slow lire. — Take a round one-pound loaf of bread; cut it at its base, in order to remove the bottom-crust, and then the crumb of the interior ; grate then the exterior crust; whereupon butter its inside, as well as outside, with the aid of a paste-brush ; place it on a gridiron, and let it dry in the oven ; then place it on a dish with its hollow part uppermost. Finish the mushrooms with a liaison of two or three yolks of eggs, diluted with a little cream ; add to them a piece of butter, and the juice of a lemon ; pour it into the crust. 838. Shells with cepes (mushrooms).* Choose small, but very firm cepes, mince their heads, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, let them fry quite gently, toss them repeatedly; season them, add to them a garnished bunch; as soon as their moisture is reduced, thicken them with some spoonfuls of good ‘becha- mel’-sauce of a nice consistence. With this stew till some table-shells, smoothe their surface, sprinkle over a little bread-crumb, glaze it with the salamander ; dish the shells up on a folded napkin. 839. Potato-quenelles. Let the potatoes boil with their peel on; then peel them, grate them, or else pass them through a sieve ; take then a pound of this puree, put it into a stewpan, introduce into it three ounces ol butter, a handful of grated parmesan, four yolks of eggs, and one whole egg; season it with salt, nutmeg, and a pinch of sugar ; pour the paste on the Homed slab, work it with the hands, introducing into it six ounces of flour; * A species of mushroom, called cepes, in France, gribouis in Russia, where they abound.