318 TIIE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. mince of black truffles, Italian way (see vegetables), and thickened with a little madeira-sauce. — Round these truffles dish up the chicken- fillets, setting them in an upright position, with their pointed end turned upwards ; serve them. 692. Boiled pullet. Truss a good and tender pullet with its paws brought back, rub all its surface with the pulp of half a lemon, wrap it up with thin strips of bacon, shut it up in a little cloth. Let boil a stewpanful of water; an hour previous to serving, plunge the pullet into the liquid, let it boil, without allowing the ebullition to become less violent; it requires fifty minutes at least. — At serving-time, drain it, unwrap it, set it on a warm dish ; range at each end a group of cauliflowers, and at each side slices of cooked streaky-bacon ; very slightly mask the breast with a little parsley-sauce, serve up the remainder in a sauceboat. 693. ‘Supreme’ of chicken-fillets, with quenelles. Trim ten chicken-fillets according to the general rules, remove the stump of the wings ; slightly beat them with the handle of a knife, again trim them, round on one side, and pointed at the other (see draw. 242); range them on the bottom of a saute-pan, the bottom of which is masked with a layer of clarified and cooled butter; take care to place all the fillets in the same direction. With the trimmings of the fillets, and the meat of the two legs of chicken, one third part of panada, a third part of butter, and one yolk of egg, prepare some force-meat; with this force-meat mould fitteen or twenty small ‘quenelles’ with the aid of two tea-spoons {see art. 45); let them poach in salted water, keep them by. Spread the remainder of the force-meat on the bottom of a dish in a round and regular layer, cover it with a round of buttered paper. Cut up the body-bones and other bones of the poultry, put them into a stewpan, with a piece of butter and one onion, let them fi} at a good fire; sprinkle over a handful of flour, moisten them with warm broth ; add a bunch of parsley garnished with aromatics ; boil the liquid