78 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. other, occasioned the discomposure of the former preparation ; for if the oil, and eggs are in the normal conditions of freshness, such a discom- posure can only he produced by the excess eithei ol oil 01 acid. 199. How to prepare cold mayonnaise-sauce, a la ragivote. Boil in a copper-skillet two quarts of water, add to it a little salt. Pluck a pinch of taragon-leaves, one of pimpernel, one of chives, one ofchervi, one of parsley ; after five minutes’ ebulliton, drain these herbs, plunge them into the liquid, boil them for two minutes, press the moisture out well, pound them together with four anchovy-fillets, a gerkin, a spoonful of capers, and two shalots. When the preparation is converted into paste, remove it; pass it through a fine sieve, introduce it into a mayonnaise- sauce with eggs, prepared in the conditions prescribed in art. 1J». This ravigote may also be prepared by plainly chopping the raw-herbs, as well as the other ingredients, and then mixing them up with the mayonnaise. 200 How to prepare raw ravigote-sauce. — Put into a kitchen- basin, two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion and shalots, four spoonfuls of pickled gerkins, capers, and mushrooms, also chopped hue; add to i three yolks of eggs boiled hard, either brayed or pounded and then diluted with two spoonfuls of good mustard; mix this piepaiation » i a spoon, gradually adding to it three gills of oil, and a few spoonfuls ot .'ood vinegar; last of all, add two spoonfuls of leaves of parsley, taiagon, chives, all of which chopped together : pour the sauce into a cold sauce- boat. 201 How to prepare cold orange-sauce. — Pour into a kitchen basin half a.glassful of currant-jelly, of not too great consistence ; mix it up with the grated zest of an orange, the juice of two oranges, a table- spoonful of good mustard, a little salt, and a pinch of cayenne-pepper; mix these ingredients, without working the sauce too much, which pom into a cold sauceboat. ‘>09 How to prepare cold gooseberry-sauce. - Put twelve ounces of ' ji., 1 . Mol. «