70 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. in order to employ it according to occasion, either in its natural condi- tions, or after being reduced. 171. How to prepare sour gravy. — Pour halt a glassful of vinegar into a stewpan; add to it a little bunch of taragon, some peppercorns; let it reduce to half, then add to it double its volume of succulent and clear gravy; give the liquid two bubblings up, and pass it through a sieve. 172. How to prepare piquant-sauce. — Mince one onion, as well as a piece of carrot; let them fry in a stewpan, add to them some aromatics, and a few peppercorns; moisten them with halt a gill oi vinegar, which let reduce to half; mix then into the liquid two gills of brown- sauce, or thickened gravy. Let the sauce boil on a slow tire for fifteen or eighteen minutes; skim off its fat, pass it through a sieve, mix m it two or three spoonfuls of chopped gerkins. 173. How to prepare ‘Robert’-sauce. — Cut in dice four or five large onions, let them fry with butter in a stewpan on a moderate fee, carefully turning them ; season them with salt and pepper; when they have taken a nice color, moisten with half a glassful of good vinegar; let this vinegar reduce to half. Mix then into the liquid a glassful of sauce, or thickened gravy; let the sauce boil on the side of the fire, until t le onions be done; skim off its fat, finish it with a little pepper ; take it off the fire, add to it two tablespoonfuls of good mustard, diluted with a little sauce. From this moment the sauce can be no longer allowed to boil, i must be served immediately. 174. How to prepare 'Matelote’-sauce. - Mince two onions, put them into a stewpan with butter, two shalots, a bay-leaf and a few pepper- corns ; let the onions fry to a nice color, add to it a glass ul of red w *, let the liquid reduce to half; thicken it with a glassful and a half ot brown-sauce; let it reduce on a brisk fire, stirring it, pass 1 . sieve, finish it with a pinch of cayenne-pepper, and a piece oi anchovy bUttem. How to prepare ‘Devil’-sauce. - Mince a few shalots and one onion, put them into a small stewpan with a clove ot garlic, a bay-le. , ■