THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 270 to baste them with butter; as soon as they are clone, dish them in a circle, glaze them with the aid of the paste-brush ; serve separately a good tomata-sauce {see art. 195). 603. Veal-cutlets, with mushrooms. Cut seven or eight veal-cutlets, not too large; trim them, season, and fry them in a flat stewpan, with butter, at a brisk fire ; six minutes after, turn them; when they have well set, remove them; drain the butter off the stewpan, into which then pour a glassful of brown-sauce, and a few tablespoonfuls of madeira ; let this sauce boil, stirring it; add to it two dozen fresh mushrooms, cut transversally ; boil them for seven or eight minutes ; as soon as the sauce has reduced to the degree requisite, and tastes well, put the cutlets back into the stewpan, heat them without ebullition, dish them in a circle; garnish the centre with the mushrooms, pour over the sauce. 604. Veal-cutlets, with fine-herbs. Chop a large onion and some shalots; put them into a stewpan with butter, let them fry without giving them color; add to them five or six tablespoonfuls of chopped raw mushrooms ; as soon as the latter have reduced their moisture, moisten them with a glassful of white wine and double that of broth ; let the liquid boil; slightly thicken it with a little sauce, and remove the stewpan to the side of the fire. On the other hand, trim seven or eight veal-cutlets, season, range them side by side in a stewpan with butter, let them fry and take a fine color on both sides; as soon as they have well set, drain off their fat, and mix into them the fine-herbs previously prepared; add a bunch of parsley, garnished with aromatics; let the sauce boil, then i erne's e it back to a slow fire; finish boiling the cutlets thus, turning them ; then dish them. — Lighten now the sauce with a little gravy, add to it some spoonfuls of raw truffles, the same of cooked lean ham, both of which cut into small dice ; after the lapse of a few minutes, remove the bunch, add a pinch of chopped parsley, and another of pepper; turn all out over the cutlets.