THE HOUSEHOLD COOKED Y- HOOK. 44(3 clarify it, and filter it (see draw. 59); when it is nearly cold, add to it some spoonfuls of good rum, pour it into a jelly-mould set solidly in a basin, and surrounded with pounded ice (see draw. 319) ; cover the mould with a vessel filled with ice, keep it thus until the jelly has got firm. — At serving-time, dip the mould quickly into warm water, wipe it, and turn the jelly out on a very cold dish. — If desirous of obtaining a good, and delicate jelly, it must not be made too stiff, and glutinous, and must be left to settle in a china- or crystal vessel, wherein it is to be served. 965. Jelly with kirsch-wasser. Prepare three gills of very clear sweetened jelly (see art. 964); pour it into a vessel, let its heat evaporate, stirring it with a silver-spoon, add to it half a glassful of good kirsch-wasser, pour it into a jelly-mould, which place in a basin, surround it with pounded ice, and let the prepara- tion set for full an hour. At serving-time, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the jelly over on a cold dish. 966. Jelly, with violets. Clarify an ounce and a half of fine gelatine, with half a glassful of wafer, little sugar, some lemon-juice, and a pinch of sugar (see art. 964). Clarify twelve ounces of sugar with one white of egg, a pint of water, and half the juice of a lemon. — When the syrup is filtered, put it into a sugar-pan, lot it warm well; take it then off the fire, and plunge into the liquid a handful of very fresh violets, gathered recently, but especially well picked, that is, free of stems; cover the stewpan, ten minutes after, pass the infusion through a fine sieve, mix it up with the clarified gelatine; then add to the preparation a few tablespoonfuls of good cognac or kirsch; pour it into a mould, let it set on ice (see draw. 319). At serving-time, dip the mould into warm water, and turn the jelly out on a cold dish. By the same proceeding may be prepared jellies with orange- blossoms, roses, lilacs, and jessamine. The quantity of flowers requisite is in the inverse ratio to the strength of their perfume: the more penetrating