454 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. Put into a sugar-pan three quarters of a glassful of syrup perfumed with orange, the same of good maraschino, and eight leaves of ‘gelatine dissolved with a little water. Set the pan on the ice, stir the preparation till it he well thickened ; then introduce into it a glassful of whipped cream, mixed with a little perfumed sugar. Stir the preparation for two minutes more, and pour it into the chariot-mould : after the lapse of an hour the preparation must have got firm ; wipe the mould, and turn the chariot out on a dish. 982. Glazed chariot. Mask the bottom of a chariot-mould with finger - biscuit cut to a point, and ranged in a rosette; then cut across the centre with a paste- cutter ; range the biscuit cut straight to the sides of the mould, which keep on ice. — Put into a basin some preserved fruits, which are washed, and cut in dice or quarters, such as: greengages, cher- ries, green almonds, apricots, quinces; let them macerate in kirsch for an hour. At serving-time, spread on the bottom of the mould a layer of ice- ‘plombicre’ with cream or fruits ; upon this layer, range the preserved fruits, and upon them, another layer of ice. When the mould is full, turn the chariot out on a dish, and surround it with a circle of nice ‘reine-claudes’. 983. Fruit-chariot. Spread a chariot-mould with sweetened short-paste (.see art. 91—); interiorly mask the paste with paper, then fill the hollow with common flour, in order to bake it thus ; when it is taken out of the oven, empty it, mask it interiorly with a layer of apricot - marmalade; put it back itito the well-wiped mould. — Prepare a coarse ‘salpicon of washed pre- served fruits, such as apricots, pears, plums, cherries, and pine-apple; let them macerate in maraschino for two hours. With a pint and a half of milk, six or seven yolks of eggs, en ounces of sugar, a stick of vanilla, prepare some cream {see art. 899); when it is cold, let it freeze in an ice-box ; when it is smooth, gradually