MUTTON. — TAILS, CUTLETS, MINCE. 247 560. Sheep’s-tails with haricot-puree. Blanch eight fine sheep’s-tails, refresh them, tie them together by two and two, range them in a stewpan, the bottom of which is masked Avith minced vegetables ; moisten them to cover with broth and white Avine; add to it a bunch of aromatics, peppercorns, and cloves; let the liquid boil. After the lapse of ten minutes, remove the stewpan to the side of the fire, or at the entrance of a slack oven ; braise the tails quite gently, basting them; when they are at the degree requisite, drain them, and dish them round a haricot-puree ; pass the cooking-stock, through a sieve, skim off its fat, let it reduce to half-glaze, pour it over the sheep’s-tails. 561. Welsli-mutton-cutlets, with macedoine. Take fifteen trimmed small cutlets of Welsh-mutton, season them, range them in a flat stewpan with melted butter, fry them, turning them; Avhen nearly done, drain off the fat of the steAvpan, moisten the cutlets Avith three tablespoonfuls of good gravy, let the liquid quickly reduce to glaze. Dish the cutlets in a circle, and fill the hollow Avith a ‘macedoine’ of vegetables (see art. 77). 562. Minced mutton, garnished. Carefully trim the meat of a boiled leg, or braised saddle, of mut- ton ; chop it, but not too fine; put the mince into a stewpan, keep it covered. — Fry with butter, in a steAvpan, two or three tablespoonfuls of chopped onion ; sprinkle over a pinch of flour, which fry for two minutes, stirring it Avith a spoon ; then moisten it with a little gravy, so as to obtain a sauce, which is not too clear; add to it a bunch of aromatics; boil the sauce for a few minutes, carefully stirring it; Avhen it is relish- ing, remove the bunch, and add the mutton-mince; mix the sauce and meat Avell, without allowing the former to boil: the sauce must not be too abundant; season then the hash with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; sur- round it either Avith bread-crusts fried Avith butter, or else with poached eggs.