41 ELEMENTARY METHODS. — VEGETABLES GARNISH. 76. How to cut vegetables with a spoon. — Carrots, turnips, celery- roots, beet-root, and potatoes, can be cut to the shape of balls or olives, by the aid of a vegetable-spoon or scooper, somewhat in the style of those, represented by the drawing. These scoopers may be round or oblong, • uniform or channeled. Vegetables intended to be cut with this scooper, must previously be peeled ; balls or olives are scooped, by introducing the sharp part of the scooper into the thickness of the vegetable over its whole surface : whether balls or olives are wished for, pains must be taken to disengage these parts as whole and intact as possible. Draw. 53. Draw. 54 77. How to prepare ‘macedoine’ and ‘jardiniere’ of vegetables. — macedoines and ‘jardinieres must not be confounded; either having its paiticulai character. A jardiniere is composed of fresh tender roots and vegetables, either whole, or divided in very distinct parts; it k may comprise: carrots, turnips, colewort, celery-root, french- lilk i beans, Liussels-cabbage, cauliflower, broccoli, small onions, heads of asparagus. Large roots, as carrot, turnip, celery, and so forth, are turned to balls with the aid of a channeled knife, or cut with a large vegetable-spoon ; the cauliflower and broccoli are divided in floAM ets ; the french-beans cut in lozenges, or minced. These vegetables are boiled separately, or else simply blanched in salted water, preserving their color; they are specially employed as a garnish of large pieces; most commonly they are dished in groups. Ihe macedoine’, on the contrary, is composed of small vegetables, cooked separately, but mixed together; it may be Draw-55- composed of carrots, turnips, or other roots, green-pease, french-beans, kidney-beans. The large roots are cut to balls either oblong or round, and either with the aid of a vegetable-spoon with the machine, or else Wlth tubes from the column-box. These vegetables are blanched separately in salted water; some of them, the firmest, may be boiled with broth, and then glazed; in any case, they are all at length mixed together