386 TIIE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. the preparation with salt and nutmeg, try a little portion of it; when it is at the degree requisite, take it up with a tablespoon, let it drop into boiling salted water; let the water boil, immediately remove the stewpan back to the side of the fire ; cover it, and keep thus for ten or twelve minutes. The ‘noques’ must then be firm and set; drain them, dish them up, mask them with a sauce, composed of bread - crumb fried with butter until dry. 832. Black truffles with wine. Choose a few fresh black truffles, being rather firm ; put them into water, carefully brush them, pluck them with the point of a knife, removing any particles of earth, that could have remained in their cavities. — In such conditions the truffles may be boiled with their peel on; if this be the case, put the truffles into a stewpan; moisten them to a third their height with dry white-wine, a little salt, and a bunch of parsley and aromatics ; cover the stewpan, and boil the truffles on a brisk fire, for eight or ten minutes, according to their size; take thein off the fire, glaze them with the paste-brush, serve them, dry, in a deep vegetable-dish, covered with its lid; serve at the same time some iresh butter. — If the truffles are boiled with the peel on, five minutes will do. Peeled truffles generally are served as a garnish. 833. Truffles with ‘montglas’. Mince into montglas (see art. 40) the white-meat of a cooked chicken, put it into a stewpan, thicken it with some spoonfuls of white- sauce, reduced and well warmed ; keep the stewpan in the Tain-marie’. Choose five or six middling-sized raw truffles of an equal size; peel them, mince them to ‘montglas’, put them into a stewpan ; moisten them with a quarter of a glassful of madeira-wine; let the liquid reduce on a brisk fire. Thicken the truffles then with a little melted glaze, add to them a piece of butter, divided into little bits, and the juice of a lemon; dish up the chicken-meat, form a hollow in its centre, into this hollow put the truffles.