THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 268 inches. Egg the upper surface, cern it at nearly an inch from its edges, draw three lines on its centre with the point of a small knife, in the manner represented by the drawing 198. Bake the 'vol-au-venf for twenty-eight or thirty minutes in an oven, not too hot, but well heated; take it then out of the oven, empty it, and keep it warm. Cut in slices two blanched sweetbreads ; fry them in a stewpan with butter. — With the aid of two small spoons form some veal 'quenelles’, let them poach, drain them, place them beside the slices of sweetbread ; add some cooked mushrooms, either whole, or minced. Moisten these garnishes with a white or brown-sauce, keep them warm, without ebullition, till serving-time. Dish then the 'vol-au-vent’, fill it with garnishes, intermingling them, and pouring over them the sauce; cover the 'vol-au-vent’, and serve it. 600. Boiled calf’s pluck. Choose a fresh calf’s pluck of a fine white color; let it soak in water for a few hours, put it into a stewpan with water, and a drop of vinegar; let the liquid boil, and drain the pluck ; refresh it, scrape carefully all its folds, wash it, replace it into the same stewpan, with an onion studded with cloves, the pulp of two lemons freed of peel and piths, a bunch of aromatics, a little salt, half a pound of chopped beeCsuet, and at last a tablespoonful of flour, diluted with cold water ; set the stewpan on the fire ; at the first bubbling, remove it to the side ; boil the pluck for two hours and a half, keeping it rather firm; drain it then on a sieve, sptmge it on a cloth, dish it, and serve it with brown-butter, with a 'vinaigrette’, or with a white-sauce, finished with a little^vinegar, chopped leaves of taragon and pimpernel. 601. Stewed calf’s lights and liver. Let the half of a calf’s lights boil in salted water; drain it, spunge it, cut it into little slices. Cut, in the same way, half of a raw calf's liver. — On the other hand, mince four onions, let them fry quite gently in a stewpan with butter; season them ; as soon as they are of a nice yellow color, add to them the lights, which let boil on a slow fire till