THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 378 The macaroni must, first of all, be boiled in salted water, till it lias attained the degree requisite ; lovers of macaroni eat it rather under- done, and they are right; for if it is eaten too much done, it is not so good, and far more difficult of digestion ; but this is a question of taste and preference. The macaroni takes more or less time to cook, accord- ing to the length of time since it was made; to secure its being rightly done, it must be tried from time to time, that is, by taking a little morsel between the teeth; as soon as it has ceased cracking, it is ready to be served. As soon as the macaroni is done, drain it in a colander, but without letting it cool; then take it up in small portions with a skimmer, range it by alternate layers in a deep dish, sprinkling each layer with a handful of good, fresh, scraped parmesan, and moistening them with a part of the prepared gravy, passed through a sieve, mixed with a little good butter. If the gravy should be thin, it would be requisite to mix with it a little good meat-glaze, melted. Macaroni with gravy, ought to be eaten quite hot. 816. Macaroni, ‘a la hussarde’. Boil in salted water a pound of little macaroni, drain them well, then put them back into the same stewpan again, introduce into them four ounces of butter, and three ounces of parmesan 5 then mix into this a pinch of cayenne-pepper, two spoonfuls of ‘bechamel-sauce, four spoon- fuls of melted glaze, and four peeled cooked truffles, shred to ‘julienne’; range the macaroni on a warm dish, sprinkle over a handful ot grated parmesan^ moisten it with a little tomata-sauce. 817. Gratinated macaroni. Plunge into boiling salted water nine ounces of large macaroni; when they are done, drain them ; pour them on a colander without refreshing them ; put them into a stewpan, season them with pepper and nutmeg, thicken them with a few tablespoonfuls of good bechamel -sauce, introduce into them, off the fire and tossing them, four ounces of good butter, the same of grated parmesan and gruyere-cheese, in equal parts ; pour then the macaroni on a gratin-dish, sprinkle over a little