64 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOKJ warm. Further on will be given, the model a ‘bain-marie’ case, used in small kitchens. 147. How to prepare warm horseradish-sauce. — Put into a stewpan two or three handfuls of fresh bread-crumb, dilute it with two glassfuls of broth ; let the liquid boil, thicken it, stirring it with a wooden spoon; season it with a pinch of pepper, and a little salt, add to it a few spoon- fuls of good cream ; the sauce must remain rather consistent; remove it off the fire ; in the first place introduce into it three or four table- spoonfuls of horseradish, scraped and chopped fine, then a piece of good butter. 148. How to prepare fennel-sauce. — This sauce is simply com- posed of butter-sauce, into which is mixed a pinch of chopped fresh fennel-leaves, either in their natural state, or blanched. 149. How to prepare mint-sauce. — Pluck a pinch of green mint- leaves, chop them fine, place them in a little kitchen-basin, moisten with a few spoonfuls of cold water or broth, add a little salt, a little sugai, and two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Let the mint infuse for ten minutes, then pour the sauce into a sauceboat. « 150. How to prepare apple-sauce. — Cut in quarters seven or eight sour apples, put them into a stewpan with a little water, and thus letting them boil till melted, pass them through a sieve ; pour this puree into a stewpan, dilute it with a little water, add to it a grain of salt, and a pinch of sugar, then finish it with a little piece of buttci. 151. How to prepare green - sauce. — Prepare two glassfuls of butter-sauce (see art. 152), keeping it thick, and of a good consistence. -- On the other hand, slightly blanch a pinch of chervil-leaves, another of parsley, another of taragon, chives, and pimpernel; drain these herbs well, put them into a mortar, add to them a tablespoonful of chopped shalbts, pound them, season them with salt,, and a pinch of cayenne- pepper ; add to them six ounces of butter; the mixture being completed, remove the preparation out of the mortar, pass it through a sieve, stir the sauce with a spoon on the side of the fire, gradually introducing into