330 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY- ROOK. bacon, let it take a little color on a slow fire., turning it; place it with its breast uppermost, surround it with some vegetables, season it, moisten it with a glassful of broth ; let the liquid reduce to glaze. Moisten the duck again, to half its height, with broth and white wine, cover it up with bacon or greased paper, and braise it. When the duck is done, its cooking-stock should be reduced to half-glaze ; drain it then, untruss it, dish it up ; pass the cooking-stock through a sieve, skim off its fat, thicken it with a little good brown- sauce. Surround the duck with a mixed garnish, or simply with a garnish of vegetables; moisten it with a little sauce, the remainder of which serve up in a sauceboat. — The dish is represented by the drawing (249), as set upon a hot-water dish; let me recommend this method for all hot dishes, that are to figure on the table. 717. Young-duck, roasted. Choose a good fat young duck, singe it, draw it; chop its liver, and crop, with an equal volume of fresh bacon; season the mince, add to it a pinch of chopped onion, and parsley, a handful of grated bread- crumb, a pinch of sage-leaves, and one yolk of egg ; with this stuffing fill the body of the young duck, truss it, put it on the spit, let it roast for twenty-five or thirty minutes, basting it with butter; salt it, take it off the spit, untruss it; dish it up, garnish it with halves of lemon. Serve separately a sauceboatful of good gravy. 718. Ducks, hunter’s way. Truss two or three ducks, put them into a stewpan with butter, let them roast at a moderate fire. Let the livers of the ducks fry with some poultry-livers, or some slices of calf’s liver; when they have cooled, pound them, pass them through a sieve; mix up with this puree a little glaze, and then garnish with it some bread-crusts, cut to an oblong shape, and fried. The draw. (250) joined to this article, represents this entree placed on a bottom, serving it as a stanchion ; yet this bottom is not indispensable, and may be omitted.