30 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY- BOOK. 46. How to prepare court-bouillon. — ‘Court-bouillon’ is applied to cooking various kinds of fish. It is prepared with vinegar, white wine, or red wine, according to the species. — Mince two carrots, two onions, a piece of celery-root; place them in a stewpan with butter, let them fry on a moderate tire; add some sprigs of parsley, thyme, and bay- leaf, some peppercorns and cloves ; moisten with two quarts of fish-broth, - or simply hot water, and a pint ot vinegar. Skim the liquid, salt it, let it boil for a quarter of an hour, then pass it through a sieve, and use it. — The process is the same for ‘court-bouillon’ with wine, with only this difference, that the quantity of wine enters in the proportions ot three parts to one part of broth. These stocks are very easily to be preserved, and therefore may serve several times. 47. How to boil lobster, crayfish, and sea-crayfish. — The preparation of sea-crayfish, and lobster, is a very simple one; it consists in plunging them in boiling water, which is salted, slightly acidulated, and mixed with minced vegetables. But previous to plunging them in, the tail must be tied with thread; if lobster, the paws must equally be tied; the stewpan is shut immediately. Large sea-crayfish and lobsters must boil on a brisk fire for fifteen or sixteen minutes ; they must be left to half- cool in their liquor ; the stewpan having been removed from the fire. To boil crayfish, they are simply placed in a stewpan with salt, some peppercorns, a bunch of parsley, some minced vegetables, and a little vinegar, or white wine. The stewpan is covered, set on a brisk fire, and the crayfish are boiled for eight or ten minutes, giving them a toss from time to time. 48. How to poach oysters. — 111 order to poach oysters, they are opened, their liquor is put into a stewpan, together with the meat; the liquor is mixed with a little white wine, so .as to moisten them to halt their height. — Set the stewpan on the fire, let the liquid boil, immediately remove it back to the side of the fire; two minutes after, pour oysters and liquid on a sieve, carefully collecting the stock. Then the oysters are refreshed, spunged, and trimmed: from boiled oysters the beard and knobs are commonly removed.