THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 482 ounces and a half of butter, twelve yolks of eggs ; four whole eggs, twelve whites of eggs ; six ounces of almonds, a grain of salt, a little vanilla, and a little orange-zest. Pound the almonds very fine, with three ounces of sugar, and five whites of eggs ; put them into a basin with the remainder of the sugar, and four whole eggs 5 whip the preparation briskly till it be cjuite frothy, gradually adding to it twelve yolks of eggs ; then introduce into it the flour and fecula, then the butter and seven whipped whites of eggs. Bake the preparation in a flat mould, and in a slack oven; when they have cooled, mask them with kirsch-icing-sugar. — These cakes can be preserved a very long time. 1042. ‘Mirlitons’. Spread two dozen tartlet - moulds of round shape, with a little flat of fine paste, cut out with a channeled tin-cutter. — Put into a kitchen- basin three dariolc-moulds-ful of flour, the same of powder-sugar flavored with vanilla, six pulverised macaroons, three whole eggs, four ounces of butter, and a grain of salt. Work the preparation for a few minutes with a spoon, so as to get it smooth. Now fill the moulds, which set on a baking-sheet, and thus bake in a slack oven. As soon as taken out, sprinkle them with sugar. 1043. Genoise-cake. Weigh eight whole eggs, weigh the same amount of sugar, the same of butter, the same of flour, and the same of almonds. Work the sugar and the eggs together, in a kitchen-basin, with a wooden spoon; when the preparation is frothy, add to it a giain of salt, the flour, and a pinch of fecula, then the pounded almonds, and the butter; at last add to it four tablespoonfuls of brandy. Bake the prepa- ration in a small buttered and floured mould, (see draw. 354), or else on a buttered and floured baking-sheet. These cakes may be served, either in their natural state, or else masked with a light layer of any marmalade whatever, then with icing- sugar with kirscli, rum, maraschino, or simply with oiange-icing su0ai.