THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 298 657. Cold-pie of poultry. Butter, and line a cold-pie mould with short-paste (nee art. 55, 57). — Divide two chickens, each of them, into four pieces, remove their skin and bones, put them into a kitchen-basin, season them with salt, pepper, and spices; add to them an equal quantity of raw ham and blanched bacon, both of which cut into dice; add also some raw truffles, peeled, and cut like the bacon; moisten the meat Avith a little madeira, or brandy. — Prepare a mince of fresh pork, with a pound and three ounces of lean meat, and the same of bacon, salted, but not smoked ; season it Avith spices and a little salt. With this mince mask the bottom and sides of the pie-case, applying it in a layer a third of an inch thick; till the hollow Avitli pieces of poultry in alternate layers of the mince, observing to raise the preparation in a dome-like fashion. Finish the pie according to the common method (see art. 537), egg it, let it bake in a slack oven, for tAvo hours. When the pie is taken out of the oven, leave it in the mould ; a quarter of an hour after, infilter by its top two glassfuls of aspic-jelly, mixed Avitli a little madeira; half an hour after, take the mould off. Let the pie cool, serve it twenty-four hours after. — In winter these pies improve, if eaten a feAv days after their preparation. 658. Poultry-blood with line-herbs. Take the blood of a feAv heads of poultry, let it coagulate in a basin; turn it out on a cloth, divide it in strips which cut transversally. — Chop a piece of bacon, let it melt in a pan Avith butter, add to it a spoonful of chopped onion ; let the onion fry, yet without allowing it to take color; add the blood, as Avell as three ounces of streaky bacon cut in dice; set the pan on a brisk tire ; season the blood with salt and pepper, add to it a pinch of chopped parsley ; as soon as it is done, pour over a drop ot good vinegar, and serve on a dish. 659. Small poultry-‘pains’, with taragon. Choose ten large dariole-moulds (see drawing 222), surround them Avith pounded ice, decorate the bottoms and sides with cut geikins,