THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-HOOK. 56 ebullition, add to it a bunch garnished with aromatics, then whole spices, and two glassfuls of white wine; carefully skim the liquid, give it an hour’s ebullition, skim off its fat, pass it through a napkin, let it set, and decant it; then clarify it with a little chopped raw game-meat. 127. How to prepare meat-glaze. — In order to prepare good meat- glaze, one must have at disposal a sufficient quantity of broth, as white, as fresh, as pure as possible, and free of fat; pour it into a large copper stock-pot {see drawing 66) ; mind, the stock-pot can be filled to half its height only. Set this stewpan on a brisk fire, let the liquid boil, being careful to leave in the vessel a ladle, so as to prevent the liquid’s flowing over the rim. When the broth has partly evaporated, that is, when three- parts reduced, when of fine color, and slightly thickened; change the stock-pot for a smaller one, which then set on the side of the fire, so as to bring the. glaze to the required degree of consistence, clarifying it, that is, removing the impurity gathering on the side opposite to that whence the ebullition starts. With these precautions, a fine pure glaze is obtained. The glaze is sufficiently reduced, when it has acquired the consistence of syrup; at this degree it should well coat a spoon, when dipped into the liquid. » 128. How to prepare poultry-extract. — Poultry-extract is obtained quite naturally from the cooking-stock of poultry passed through a sieve, set, and decanted. This extract is also produced by clarifying poultry- broth or stock with meat of poultry, proceeding by the same rules as for a jelly-broth. 129. How to prepare montpellier- butter. — ‘Montpellier’-butter is prepared with fresh aromatic herbs (taragon, chervil, pimpernel, chives), butter, hard-boiled yolks of eggs, salted anchovies, capers and gerkins preserved in vinegar. To two large handfuls of aromatic-herbs, half a pound of butter is required, then the fillets of six anchovies, four or five yolks of eggs boiled hard, two tablespoonfuls of capers, and four gerkins. First of all, the herbs are plucked, washed, blanched for two minutes in a sugar- pan; when well drained, their moisture is extracted, pressing them be-