424 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. Logins to thicken, then remove it back, work it vigorously until it is smooth ; put it back on the fire, let it boil again for five minutes, then take it off the fire. When it has half-cooled, add three tablespoonfuls ol lemon-sugar, then eight or nine yolks of eggs, one after the other, and a piece of butter. When the paste is well worked, and has become light, then introduce into it eight very stiff whipped whites of eggs ; pour it. into a large buttered and floured mould; set the mould in a stewpan with water, going up nearly to half the height of the mould ; let the pudding- steam on a very slow fire, or in a slack oven, for forty minutes, turn it out on a dish, mask it with the following sauce: Sabayon. — Put into a stewpan seven or eight yolks of eggs, together with six ounces of powder-sugar; mix the eggs up with the sugar, dilute them with half a gill of white-wine. Set the stewpan on a very slow fire, whip the liquid without leaving it, until it is quite frothy, and prevent- ing its boiling : it must get as light as whipped whites of eggs; serve it immediately. 919. Meringued apples. Prepare a mince of apples, as for a chariot; thicken the fruit with a little apricot-marmalade; let them cool, dish them up in a pyramid on the centre of a dish. — An hour previous to serving, mask the pyramid formed by the mince with a layer of marmalade: apple or apricot; then with a layer of ‘meringue’; introduce a little ‘meringue’ into a bag, and witli it, decorate the dome; sprinkle over the ‘meringue’ a little sugar. 920. Soon-done (totfait). Mix up, in a kitchen-basin, five ounces of powder-sugar, the same of flour, three ounces of melted butter, four whole eggs, a grain of salt, and a little grated zest; thicken this paste, without working it, dilute it gradually with a gill of cold milk, introduce into it four whipped whites of eggs ; pour it on a buttered baking-slieet with rim ; bake the cake in a slack oven for three quarters of an hour; when it is taken out, turn it over on a dish, sprinkle over fine sugar, serve it, without delay, either with sabayon, or cream, or simply with fruit-syrup.