GAME-SOUPS. 105 259. Chicken-soup, with potatoes. — Take a common large chicken or else a good fowl; cleanse it, truss, and place it in a stewpan with the neck, pinions, and gizzard, all well cleansed. Add the bone of a ham, a small knuckle of veal, moisten the meat with water, or light broth (two or three quarts). Let the liquid boil, skimming it; cook the meat with all the care given to a stock-pot. The fowl being done, pass the broth through a sieve, into another stewpan ; skim off the fat, thicken it with two tablespoonfuls of rice-meat, dilute it with some spoonfuls of cold water. Let the soup boil, on the side of the fire, for a quarter of an hour; then add to it a gill of little potato-balls cut with a small vegetable-spoon (see drawing 53, 54), but previously blanched, that is, slightly cooked in salted water for five minutes. Let the soup now boil, till the potatoes be done ; then mix in both the iillets of the fowl, cut in*slices, as well as a pinch of chopped chervil; pour it into the tureen. — This soup may be thickened with two or three yolks of eggs, diluted with a little cream; in this case the chervil may be omitted. 260. Turkey - g’iblet-soup. — Take two giblets of turkey, or else of geese, being properly cleansed : neck, pinions, and gizzard. Plunge them into boiling water, in order to scald them ; divide them into pieces not too small; put them into a stewpan with a little butter, an onion, a piece of carrot, some trimmings of raw ham, a bunch of parsley, garnished with aromatics; let them fry on a moderate fire, till they are well set; then sprinkle over two tablespoonfuls of flour, which fry for a few minutes, stirring the meat with a spoon ; then moisten them gradually with three pints of broth, and half a bottle of white wine. Stir the liquid until ebullition, then remove it back to the side of the stove; finish cooking the meat on a very slow fire : the liquid must not be too much thickened. On the other hand, take the red part of two carrots, a turnip, and a celery-root, which cut to middling-sized dice ; the celery must not predo- minate. Let these vegetables blanch slightly, boil them in a little broth. The meat being done, drain them with a skimmer, trim, and place them with the vegetables ; skim the liquid, pass it through a sieve into another stewpan, add to it a pinch of cayenne-pepper, half a glassful of madeira, then the meat and vegetables ; ten minutes after, pour the soup into the tureen.