OMELET. — WITH FINE-HERBS, POTATOES, NEW ONIONS. 375 the omelet from the bottom of the pan. Now, take a plate of just the dimension of the pan, and with it remove the omelet, turning the pan over at the same time with the plate ; pour a little melted butter on the pan, upon which slip the omelet; as soon as it has well set, slip it on a round dish, keeping it round and flat. 808. Omelet, with new onions. Mince some small new onions, place them in a pan with butter or oil; season them, let them fry on a slow fire, stirring them, till they have taken a light color, but are done ; then take them off. — Rub the bottom and sides of a kitchen-basin with a peeled clove of garlic, break into this basin ten fresh eggs, season them, beat them up, add a pinch of chopped parsley, and the prepared onions. — Pour into an omelet-pan three ounces of melted butter; when it is warm, add to it the beaten eggs ; thicken the omelet, fold it up, turn it out on a dish. 809. Gardener’s omelet. Trim two young artichokes, which are very tender, remove the hard leaves, divide each of them in two, then mince them in thin slices ; place these slices in a pan with some oil, let them fry, tossing them until they are nearly done; then drain them. Mince six comestible mushrooms, fresh, and well cleansed; put them into the pan, wherein the artichokes have been, let them fry at a brisk fire, until their moisture be reduced; this done, remove the pan off the fire, mix the artichokes up with the mushrooms, add to them a pinch of chives, another of taragon-leaves, another of parsley, all of which chopped together. — Rub the bottom of a kitchen-basin with a cut clove of garlic; break into this basin ten very fresh eggs, season them, beat them up vigorously for a few moments. — Let a quarter of a pound of butter melt in an omelet-pan; when the butter is quite hot, mix into it the beaten eggs ; thicken the omelet, gather it at the side of the pan ; spread then on its centre the artichokes and mushrooms; fold it up, turn it out on a dish; mask the bottom of this dish with a little tomata-sauce.