458 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. Bray six yolks of eggs in a stewpan, dilute them with the infused milk, add to it half a pound of sugar; stir the cream on a slow fire, in order to thicken it, without ebullition (see art. 899); pour it into a kitchen- basin ; when it is nearly cooled, mix into it eight leaves of dissolved ‘gelatine’; pass it again, through a sieve, into a stewpan; stir it on pounded ice, until it thickens, without being grainy ; then take it off the ice, and thus introduce into it, gradually, two glassfuls of whipped and sweetened cream ; immediately pour it into an ornamentally wrought cylinder- mould (see draw. 321), previously set in a kitchen-basin, and surrounded with pounded ice. An hour after, dip the mould into warm water, wipe it, and turn the cream out on a dish. 990. Rice with strawberry-puree. Boil, in plenty of water, nine ounces of picked rice : it must be tender, but the grains preserved whole. While the rice boil, pour half a glassful of water into a stewpan, add to it six ounces of pounded sugar; as soon as this sugar is dissolved, boil the syrup very thick to ‘petit-casse’; immediately take it off the fire, let it half-cool; stir it with a spoon, in order to let it thicken (graisser), that is, stir it until it becomes cloudy; then mix into it two or three spoonfuls of maraschino, then the rice, well drained and lialf-cooled; add to it four or five spoonfuls more of maraschino, pour the rice into a border-mould previously dipped in cold water. Keep this mould on the ice for two hours. At serving-time, turn the rice out on a cold dish, the bottom of which mask with a puree of strawberries, mixed with powder-sugar, and well cooled on ice. — This, tho’ a simple sweetmeat, is excellent. 991. Rice with strawberries. Wash six ounces of rice, put it into a large stewpan, with plenty of cold water, and the juice of two lemons; let the liquid boil, until the rice be well done, but yet with its grains kept whole ; then drain it on a sieve, pour it into a kitchen-basin, and cover it with common syrup; add