THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 306 good fire, basting them with butter ; salt them when they aie done; dish them up, surround them with cresses, and serve them "without gia\y. 673. Chickens with green-pease. Singe two chickens, divide each ot them in live pieces, put them into a stewpan with butter, and two small onions ; slightly season«them, let them fry on a brisk tire, until they have taken a nice color ; then add to them half a pound of streaky-bacon cut in pieces; moisten them with a glassful of broth, which let reduce to glaze ; at this degree, mix with the chickens a pint and a half of fresh plucked green-pease, a bunch of parsley, and a little salt; let the meat, as well as the vegetables, toss tor a few minutes, moisten them with a little broth ; cover the stewpan, remove it back on a slow tire, or push it m at the entrance ot the oveiv till the chickens and green-pease are done; then thicken the pease with a piece of kneaded-butter; a few minutes after, dish it up, having removed the bunch. 674. Fat chicken, truffled. In order to truffle a chicken, it must absolutely be young, iat, and of superior qualities. Nothing makes so bad a figure on the table, as a luxurious dish not answering the expectations of the guests. Take a fat and tine, singed and drawn chicken. — Peel hall a pound of fresh truffles; cut them, season, and mix them with twelve ounces of grated bacon; then introduce them inside the chicken’s body, letting the stomach protrude ; sew up the skin of the stomach ; truss tie chicken, keep it in a cool place for a couple.of hours ; pierce it through with a small skewer, which tie to the spit. Cover the breast of the chicken with half a sheet of buttered paper, let it roast at a slow tire tor twee quarters of an hour; unwrap it, five minutes previous to taking it oft the ' spit, give it a light color, salt it, take it off the spit, dish it up ; serve separately a sauceboatful of good gravy, or light brown sauce, reduced with the trimmings of truffles.