THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 280 'vine, and turn the sauce till ebullition (it must be light, and of a nice consistence); after the lapse of a few minutes, add to it the sausages, let them boil quite gently, tor ten or twelve minutes, then dish them, and pour over the sauce. 627. Household black-puddings. When in a household black-puddings are prepared, they are made in great quantities, as most generally this is done to utilise the blood of a pig killed at home. It will suffice therefore to describe this prepara- tion, in the proportions relative to the quantity of blood yielded by one pig- — For four quarts of blood is required a pint of cream or good milk, two pounds of onion, two pounds of swartli, or of pork-suet. First of all must be mixed into the blood, while it is warm, a quarter of a glassful of vinegar, put in by degrees, and without leaving off stir- ring the blood ; then are added to it a few blades of thyme. If fresh guts are employed they must be macerated (after having been well cleansed) in a basin, with a handful of salt, for two hours ; if the guts are dry, they must be softened in cold water. Pluck the onions, cut them in quarters, plunge them into a vessel of boiling salted water, boil them for seven or eight minutes ; then drain them on a sieve. Cut the swartli into small dice, put these dice into a stewpan, in order to warm them ; mix up with them the onions, and boil them for twenty minutes, then take them off the fire. — Pour the blood into a stewpan, passing it through a sieve; warm it then on a slow fire, without ceasing to stir it with a wooden spoon. When the blood is tepid, add to it the onion and swartli, take it off the fire, season it, add to it a little rum. Spunge the guts carefully, tie one of their extremities with thread, and with the aid of a large funnel fill them with the preparation at the opposite extremity. The gut may either be left whole, or tied at equal distances. Turn the black-pudding in a spiral way on the bottom of a large stewpan, largely cover it with tepid water; warm this water to the degree of ebullition, yet without letting the ebullition develop itself. Remove the stewpan, leave the black - pudding in the water, till the blood is