THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 276 sicle; let them fry quickly, turning them; when done, dish them. Pour into the stewpan a few spoonfuls of melted glaze, add the juice of two lemons, and a pinch of chopped parsley. At the first bubbling, pour the sauce over the slices of liver. 618. Calf’s feet, ‘a la vinaigrette’. Choose three fresh calf’s feet, wipe them with a cloth, singe, and scrape them; slit them lengthwise in the middle, in oidei to bone them; let them soak, then put them into a stewpan, blanch them till ebullition; drain and wash them ; now put two halves together, tie them with thread, put them back into the same stewpan, with water, a glass- ful of white wine, a bunch garnished with aromatics, an onion studded with cloves, salt, and some spices; let the liquid boil, skimming it; then remove the stewpan back on a very slow fire. Keep up the ebullition, till the feet be boiled to the degree requisite; remove them with the aid of a skimmer, drain them, untruss, and dish them ; surround them with a circle of cut lemon. Serve separately a sauceboatful of vinaigiette (see art. 407). 619. Loin of fresh pork, roasted in the oven. Take a loin of pork from the thigh up to the first ribs ; leave on the top only a thin layer of bacon ; largely sprinkle over the meat fine salt, let it macerate thus for an hour or two. Wipe the meat then, tie it with thread, place it in a baldng-sheet, or on a roasting-pan; distribute on its top some blades of sage, baste it with a little butter or hogs lard; let it roast in a slack oven, for an hour and a half, turning it: pork must always be well done. Serve the loin on a dish, accompany it by a sauceboatful of good gravy, or else by ‘piquant’-sauce, ‘Robert’-sauce, or ‘poivrade’-sauce. - Roast loin of pork is an excellent dish, if eaten with a garnish of sour-crout. 620. Glazed ham, garnished with vegetables. Cut off the end of the knuckle-bone, slightly trim the surface of the meat, let the ham be dissalted in plenty of water, for some hours,