THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 354 butter, with the aid of a paste-brush: at the outset ot the roasting, it is convenient to keep the spit a little distant from the lire, carefully approaching it by degrees. Let it roast from thirty-five to foity minutes, previous to taking the pheasant off the spit, remove the bread-crusts out of the dripping-pan; then salt it, and pour over two tablespoonfuls of madeira; then take it off the spit, untruss it, serve it on a hot dish. Serve separately a sauceboatful of Perigueux-sauce. 764. Simplified salmis of pheasant. Draw and truss a pheasant, wrap it up m bacon, place it in a stewpan with a little scraped bacon, some remains of ham, the neck and the gizzard; let it fry on a slow fire for a quarter of an hour; moisten it with a glassful of white wine; add to it a bunch ot aromatics, and a handful of truffle-pluckings ; let the liquid boil, remove the stew- pan then to the entrance of the oven. Put into another stewpan the liver of the pheasant, and a few poultry-livers, let them fry with butter on a brisk lire, season them; when they have set, let them cool, and pound them with apiece ot buttery dilute them with a little sauce, and pass them through a sieve. - ihe pheasant being done, drain it on a baking-sheet, untruss it, cut it into eight pieces; remove their skin, glaze them, shut them up m a little stewpan, and keep them warm. Pound the body-bones, and the trimmings of the pheasant in a mortar put them into the stewpan, wherein the pheasant has been pre- pared, having drained off its fat; add half a glassful of madeira-w.ne, and a little gravy ; give the liquid a few babblings up, pass it tln-oug i a napkin, which is wrung by two persons. With this gravy graduaUy dilute the liver-puree, add to it three minced truffles cooked at the moment; stir the sauce until ebullition, pour it over the pheasant-pieces, which then range on a warm dish, and mask them with the sauce. 765. Game-cutlets with olives. Prepare a ‘salpicon of cooked game: etc. .repare a saipicuu ui ± ~ ‘ ^ place it in a little stewpan, add to it half its volume of cooked