THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 364 786. Salmis of thrushes. Roast seven or eight thrushes, without drawing them ; when they are done, divide each of them in two; trim each of these halves, range them in a stewpan, glaze them, and keep them in the ‘bain-marie’, reserv- ing the intestines. Put the trimmings into a stewpan with some aromatics, a little gravy and white wine ; cover the stewpan, give the liquid a few minutes’ ebullition, pass it then through a sieve. Pour into a stewpan a gill and a half of brown-sauce, let it reduce, stirring it, and gradually introducing into it the extract obtained from the trimmings ; when thickened to the degree requisite, pour it over the half-thrushes. — On the other hand, put into a frying-pan the intestines and livers of the thrushes, two or three poultry-livers, and some cut bacon ; season them, let them fry on a brisk tire; pound them, and pass them through a sieve; mix into this puree a little glaze, and with it mask eight or ten small bread-crusts, cut either in a round or oblong shape, and fried with butter; mind letting the preparation arch a little; glaze the puree with the paste-brush, keep the crusts at the entrance of the oven. — At serving-time, dish the halves ot thrushes, and mask them with the sauce; place the farced crusts all round the thrushes. 787. Cold-pie of snipes. Singe, and entirely bone ten snipes, stuff them, proceeding as indicated in the art. 784. With the intestines of the snipes, some cooked poultry- or game- livers, prepare some cooked force-meat (see art. 124). Prepare equally a mince, composed of lean pork and bacon, by halves; season it to high taste, mix into it the cooked force-meat, and a few raw truffles. Puftei a cold-pie mould, set it on a thick baking-sheet, covered with a round of paper, and line it with short-paste (see art. 55, 57); mask this paste on the bottom with a thick layer of force-meat; upon this layer range a part of the snipes and truffles, mask them with some force-meat, and thus alternating fill the mould up. Raise the preparation in a dome-like shape; cover the pie, decorate it (see drawing 159), bake it for two horns.