254 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. tube; surround it with a small portion of the garnish; and dish the pieces of the head round the latter; range then the remainder of the garnish round the pieces of the calf’s head, then mask the one as well as the other, with some good brown-sauce, reduced with madeira-wine, and finished with a pinch of cayenne-pepper. — The dish, wherein the calf s head is served, is represented set upon a hot-water dish. 573. Calf’s head, Bearn-sauce. Divide in pieces half a blanched and singed calf’s-liead; let them boil, proceeding, as indicated art. 576. — At serving-time, drain the pieces of head, notch the external tube of the ear, which set in an upright position on a dish ; surround it now with the other pieces, mask all with a white or brown Bearn-sauce (see art. 168). The Bearn-sauce may be replaced by piquant-sauce. 574. Calf’s head in marinade. Take the quarter of a boiled calf’s head (see art. 576), divide it into pieces of oblong shape, and let them half-cool; then remove their meat, and place them in a kitchen-basin ; season with salt, pepper, oil, and lemon-juice ; sprinkle over a pinch of chopped parsley, toss them in this seasoning, and before the meat is too cold, take the pieces up, one by one, dip them into frying-paste (see art. 59), and plunge them into hot frying-fat; as soon as the paste has taken a fine color, drain the pieces of head, dish them on a napkin, with fried parsley all round; serve separately some tomata-sauce {see art. 195). 575. Cold veal-pie. Take four pounds of cushion of veal, remove its sinewy skin; cut half of this meat into large squares, choosing the most delicate pieces; chop the rest, mix it with a little more than its weight of fresh bacon; highly season the hash, take it out, and put it into a kitchen-basin; add to it four tablespoonfuls of cooked lean ham, chopped very fine. Lard the large squares of veal (piercing them through and through) with fillets of raw ham, intermingled with bacon, and seasoned with