418 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. warm Trangipane’- cream (see art. 892) mixed with a large ‘salpicon of preserved fruits, two yolks of eggs, and one whipped white of egg. Cover this preparation with a layer of rice, keep it in a slack oven for twenty-five minutes. When about to serve, turn the pudding out on a dish, and mask it with apricot-sauce. —Apricot-sauce is composed quite simply of apricot-marmalade, mixed with madeira, kirscli, or rum, and perfumed with a little zest; give it only a few bubblings up. 908. Chicken-pudding. Take off the white meat of a roasted chicken, remove the skin, pound the meat, together with about five ounces of beef-marrow; add a gill of cream-pap ; remove the preparation back, put it into a kitchen-basin, and thus introduce into it half a gill of apple-marmalade, a pinch of pounded pulverised mace, three whole eggs, four yolks of eggs, the chopped zest of half a lemon, and six ounces of smyrna-raisins; pour the preparation into a buttered and floured plain cylinder-mould, let it poach at the Tain-marie’ for an hour, without allowing it to boil. When about to serve, turn the pudding out on a dish, mask with a little cream-sauce finished with rum or madeira. 909. Rolled-pudding. Take twelve ounces of suet-paste (see art. 52); roll it out flat in square form ; give it two or three turns, as for puff-paste ; let it rest for a few minutes, then flatten it out into a long square, giving it the thick- ness of a quarter of an inch : wet the edges of the paste with water, then spread over the surface of the paste, which is not wetted, a layer of fruit- marmalade, such as : apricots, apples, raspberries, or green-gooseberries: this marmalade should be cold, and consistent rather, than light. Roll the paste on its own length, together with the marmalade; after which wrap the pudding up in a linen-cloth, first wetted, then buttered and floured; tie it at both ends, after the manner of the ‘galantine’ represented by the drawing 217 ; plunge it then into a vessel of boiling water, cook it for about two hours, the vessel being covered; as soon as it is drained, unwrapped, and dished, mask it either with some orange-syrup, with a syrup of raspberries, or else with a cream perfumed with zests.