460 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. aiter; dip the mould into tepid water, wipe it, slip the blade of a knife all round between the sides of the mould and the rice, which turn over on a folded napkin. 994. Glazed orange-cream. Pour into a little copper-basin a glassful of cold syrup, perfumed with orange ; mix into it five or six dissolved leaves of gelatine, as well as the juice of two oranges ; stir the liquid on ice, until it begins to thicken; then introduce into it three glassfuls of whipped cream ; the mixture operated, pour the preparation into a dome-mould, placed in a bucket, and surrounded with pounded and salted ice ; close the mould, first with a sheet of paper, then with its lid, covering it also with ice, and thus keep it for forty minutes. At serving-time, wash it quickly, dip it into warm water, and turn the rice out on a dish covered with a folded napkin. 995. Glazed pistachio-cream. Spread on the bottom of a kitchen-basin a thick layer of pound and salted ice; set upon this layer a dome-mould, which then surrounded with ice, in order to let it set well. Blanch a handful of pistachioes, divide each of them in two, let them macerate thus in a little syrup. — Whip a pint of double-cream, let it drain well, sweeten it with sugar flavored with vanilla; take it up in small quantities at a time, by the aid of a little skimmer, place it in layers into the packed mould, sprinkling over each of these layers the pistachioes previously drained. Immediately shut the mould, and having luted the junctures of the lid with some raw paste, cover it entirely with salted ice. An hour and a quarter after, dip the mould into tepid water, and turn the cream out on a folded napkin. 996. Glazed nut-pudding. Pluck four dozen fresh nuts, removing the skin ; divide each of them in two ; take half of them, pound them, mixing into them a few sweet almonds. Prepare a pint and a half of vanilla cream (see art. 899) ; as soon as it is thickened, add to it the pounded nuts, take it off the fire, let it cool;