THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 152 them in bread-crumb, and plunge them in hot frying-fat; drain them, remove the wooden-skewers, replace them by silver ones, and dish them on a napkin. — Of the drawings, the one (lib) represents the garnished ‘attereaux’; the other (119), the ‘attereaux’ breadcrumbed and fried. 360. Skewers of turkey-giblets. Take the liver, heart, and crop, of two or three turkeys; remove the gall from the livers, which distribute in large squares, and put into a kitchen-basin; add to these squares, the hearts, each of which has been divided in two ; open the crops, empty them, wash them in warm water, file them up on an end of thread, and let them boil for three quarters of an hour in the stock-pot; drain them, and divide them, removing the hard skin ; now cut them to the same diameter as the livers, and mix them up with the latter; season the meat with salt, pepper, and chopped pars- ley ; moisten them with a little oil, mix them with the same quantity of thin squares of bacon, as of liver and crop-squares ; then file up the meat on little skewers, alternating them ; roll them in bread-crumb, range them on a gridiron, and let them boil for ten or twelve minutes, turning them; serve them on a warm dish. 361. Truffled pig’s feet. Carefully pluck twelve ounces of raw truffles, peel them in order to cut them into dice, put them into a saute-pan with a few spoonfuls of madeira; reduce the liquid on a brisk fire, the truffles must be tossed; then thicken them with a spoonful of brown-sauce, and a little melted glaze ; let them cool. On the other hand, boil four pig’s-feet; when they are drained, divide each of them in two ; remove the bone, fill the hollow left with a small portion of the truffle-preparation; smoothe it well with the blade of a knife, then mask it with a layer of raw force-meat, entirely wrapping it in. Now breadcrumb the pig’s feet; give them a little color on the gridiron, or else in a hot oven, basting them with melted butter; when done, serve them in a group, on a hot dish.