THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 272 007. Calf’s liver, larded, with celery-puree. Trim a line white calf’s liver, lard its upper surface with bacon, leaving only a little space bare at both the ends ; season it with salt and spices, place it on the bottom of a stewpan, previously masked with the trimmings of bacon, and minced vegetables and aromatics ; moisten the liver then, just to height, with either broth or wine, and cover it Avith a greased sheet of paper; set the stewpan on a brisk lire, let the moisture thus reduce one third, remove the steAvpan back on to a sIoav lire, putting hot embers on its lid, or else keep it in a slack oven ; braise the liver, carefully lightening the liquid, as soon as it reduces, but short ot moisture. When once the liver is done, drain it, and glaze it Avith the aid of a paste-brush. Lighten the moisture Avith a little wine or broth, let it boil for a feAv minutes ; thicken it with a little brown-sauce, or with kneaded-butter. Dish the liver on a celery-puree, then pour the sauce, all round it, passing it through a sieve. (*>08. Breadcrumbed veal-cutlets. Cut seven or eight veal-cutlets, not too thick; trim them, slightly beat them, give them a nice shape; season them on both sides; dip them into beaten eggs, drain and breadcrumb them ; this done, equalise them, pressing them with the blade of a kniie. Melt six ounces of butter, pour it into a flat steAvpan, range the cutlets on the bottom, placing them side by side; fry them at a slow fire for tAvelve or fifteen minutes; as soon as they have taken a nice color, drain them, dish them in a circle, and place in the centre ot this circle a garnish of asparagus-heads, green-pease, chicory, or any other. Pour a little gravy on the stewpan, let it reduce, thicken it with a little sauce, pour it on the bottom of the dish. 609. Calf’s liver, with piquant-sauce. Take seven or eight thick slices of calf’s liver, season them with salt and spices; fry them in a flat stewpan Avith butter; when about done, drain all their fat, pour on three spoonfuls ot good vinegar; put the