THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-HOOK. 250 ing over eacli of these layers some thin slices ot minced onion; season each layer with salt and pepper; the latter of which must predominate a little. Moisten the meat just to height with water, add to it a bay-leaf. Let the liquid boil, cover the stewpan, remove it back to the side of the tire, let the stew simmer till the meat be three-parts done; then mix up with it a garnish of raw potatoes, cut to the shape of large olives, season them with salt and pepper, continue gently boiling the stew ; the meat and potatoes should prove done at the same time; the liquid then must be reduced to half, and be slightly thickened. Dish the meat with the vegetables all round. 567. Mutton-hash, with onions. Mince four large white onions, put them into a flat stewpan, with a piece of butter; let them fry gently, stirring them with a spoon; then season them with salt and pepper; when they have taken a nice color, sprinkle over a little flour, moisten them with a glassful of white wine, and with a little gravy ; let the liquid boil, remove the stewpan back to the side of the fire. Cut, in small slices, the meat of a boiled and cooled leg of mutton, range these slices in the stewpan holding the onions : warm them without ebullition, if the meat has been roasted. Season, and add to it a little chopped parsley; dish the meat, and pour over it the sauce and onions. 568. Mutton-hash, with soft-boiled eggs. Take a pound, or a pound and a quarter, of meat from a cooked leg or loin of mutton, trim it neatly, cut it in small dice, which place in a stewpan ; cut also in dice ten cooked mushrooms, add them to the meat; season the ‘salpicon, and cover the stewpan, keeping it on the side of the fire. Chop two or three shalots, put them into a small stewpan with half a glass of madeira-wine, a bunch of parsley, with aromatics, and a few peppercorns ; cover the stewpan, reduce the liquid to half, mix it with double its volume of brown-sauce; which reduce till well thickened, finish it with a little melted glaze, and pass it through a sieve, over the minced meat; warm the hash without ebullition, then dish it up; sui