274 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 612. Calf s liver ‘a la matelote’. Lard interiorly a good tine calf’s liver, with fillets of bacon and raw ham ; season it with salt and spices ; place it in a stewpan with a piece of butter, and six ounces of blanched streaky-bacon, cut in slices of the thickness of nearly an inch ; set the stewpan on a good fire, let the liver fry, turning it; moisten it to height, with red wine and white wine, half of each, cover it with greased paper; let the liquid bod, remove the stewpan back on a slow fire. An hour after, drain the liver and bacon; lighten the moisture with a little gravy, let it boil, skim off its fat, pass it through a sieve, slightly thicken it with kneaded-butter; put the liver back into the same stewpan, pour on it the sauce, remove the stewpan on a slow fire. A quarter of an hour after, add to the liver the streaky- bacon cut into large squares, two dozen glazed small onions, and at salt, four dozen large stoned and blanched olives ; simply boil the sauce, and dish the liver. 613. Calf’s liver broiled, ‘a la maitre-d’hotel’. Choose the half of a fat and white calf’s liver, which divide m long slices nearly a third of an inch thick; season them with salt and cayenne- pepper, roll them in melted butter, and breadcrumb them; let them broi (m a slow fire for twelve or fourteen minutes, moistening them with the paste-brush, and turning them; dish them, set upon each of them a slice of hotel-keeper’s butter (see art. 545), and serve them. 614. Calf’s liver, with onions. Divide in two, lengthwise, half of a good calf’s liver; cut each half in thin slices transversally, season them with salt and pepper. mce three large onions, put them into a flat stewpan with butter, slightly a them, let them fry on a slow fire, turning them, till they have come to be of a nice yellow color; add then the slices of liver, as well as a bay-lea , toss them on a good fire, till they have set, and the onions are cone ‘ that degree, take the stewpan off the fire, pour on the liver the juice a lemon, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve it.