97 SAGO-, TAPIOCA-, SOUPS. the liquid until ebullition, mid remove the stewpan on a very slow fire. Three quarters of an hour after, skim the fat off the soup, thicken it with a liaison of five or six yolks of eggs ; take it off the fire, and add to it a few spoonfuls of poultry white, meat cut to ‘julienne’. 237. Poor-knight’s-soup. — Prepare three pints of good jelly-broth, keep it warm in a stewpan. — Grate the crumb of five or six small milk- rolls, split them in the middle, soak them with raw cream, press out their moisture, then dip them into beaten eggs, plunge them into plenty of frying-fat, in order to give them a fine color; drain them well, and dish them on a hot plate. Mix into the jelly-broth a mince of tender lettuces boiled in water, and well pressed-out; pour the soup into the tureen, serve the bread separately. 238. Sago-soup. — Choose six ounces of pearl-sago, of small grain; put it into a stewpan, with two quarts of warm water, and a little salt; let the liquid boil for ten minutes ; then drain the sago on a sieve, where- upon put it back into the stewpan; moisten it with nearly two quarts of broth, which boil gently till the sago be well done. Serve the soup in this condition, or else finish it with a liaison of four or five yolks of eggs (see art. 42). 239. Tapioca, with broth. — With a knuckle of veal and a fowl, four quarts of cold water, a small handful of salt, some vegetables, pre- pare a white broth. The meat being done, pass the broth through a napkin into a stewpan ; skim off its fat, let it boil, add to it the tapioca requisite (one tablespoonful to each of the guests) letting it drop, like rain, into the broth; remove the stewpan back to the side of the fire; twenty minutes after, .pour the soup into the tureen. — This soup may be thickened with volks of ea’a's. 240. Tapioca, with milk. — Wash in tepid water six ounces of good tapioca in small grains, put it into a stewpan, moisten it with thiee pints of boiling milk ; stir the liquid with a spoon for some minutes, season it, remove it back to the side of the fire. The tapioca being done, thicken the soup with a few yolks of eggs, lightened with a little cream; finish it with a piece of good butter, pour it into the tureen.