THE HOUSEHOLD COOKEliY-BOOK. 226 buttered; fry them at a good tire, turning them repeatedly : the onions and the beefsteaks must be done at the same time. Remove the beef- steaks, with the aid of a fork, dish them, then moisten the onions with a little thickened gravy; two minutes after, pour them over the beefsteaks. 518. Cushion of beef with aspic-jelly. Cut off half a cushion of beef, remove its bones, lard the meat interiorly with fillets of bacon and raw ham; season it, put it into a kitchen-basin, moisten it with half a bottle of white wine, add to it some aromatics, a bunch of parsley, whole spices; let it macerate in this seasoning for two or three days, after which drain it, bind it with thread, place it in an earthen stock-pot (of just its dimension), the bottom of which is masked with bacon and minced large vegetables ; add to it two boned, and blanched calf s-feet, cut up ; moisten the meat to cover with the marinade, boil the liquid, and remove the stock-pot back on hot ashes; cover it with a round of paper, then with a common deep plate, half-filled with water; boil the meat quite gently for seven hours, then dram it, untruss it, put it into a narrow basin for cooling, placing a slight weight on. ' On the other hand, lighten the cooking-stock with a little broth, pass it through a sieve, carefully skim the fat, clarify it with a little lean chopped beef, a whole egg and a little white wine, proceeding as is said in the art. 130; then pass the jelly through a napkin. — When the meat has well cooled, turn it out, place it on a dish, whole or carved, surround it with cold jelly, having got firm on the iee, and cut m ‘croutons . 519. Carved fillet of beef, ‘a la Providence’. Trim a fine fillet, which lard all over with bacon; place it in a roastine-pan, the bottom of which is masked with the remains of bacon and some chopped beef-fat; very slightly salt it, cover it with a sheet o buttered paper, and pour over a good ladleful of stock-pot iat {degr^m,- An hour pilous to serving, push the fillet into the oven, baste .1 repeatedly with its own cooking-stock, drain it as soon as done, then