100 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. add to them live or six leeks, cut in pieces, blanched in salted water, and well drained. At serving-time, skim off the fat of the broth, pour it into the tureen at the same time as the meat and leeks. - If it is wished to serve the livers, they must he boiled a few minutes only, after their being blanched, and then be divided into slices. 249. MaillteilOll-SOUp. — Prepare three quarts of poultry-stock tor thickened soup, start it to ebullition; then remove it to the side of the tire. Add two tender little chickens, as well as two handfuls of trimmings of mushrooms ; as soon as the chickens are done, drain them ; skim the fat carefully off the soup, thicken it with five yolks of eggs, mixed with two spoonfuls of curry-powder, and diluted with a little raw cream ; pass it through a tammy, and pour it into a stewpan, add a few spoonfuls of cooked rice. Heat the soup without allowing it to boil, pour it into the tureen, having mixed it with the breasts of the chickens minced into scollops. 250. Celestine-soup. — Prepare three quarts ot white poultry-stock, for thickened soup (art. 246), keep it boiling on the side of the fire. Get ready a pancake preparation without sugar; season it with sa t and nutmeg, then prepare twenty-four pancakes, proceeding according to the common method. As soon as cooled, mask one side of each ot them with a layer of creamy raw poultry 'quenelle’ force-meat, finished with a handful of grated parmesan-cheese. Then solder the pancakes together by two and two; then cut them in rounds with a tin-cutter, and put them into the tureen ; skim the fat off the soup, thicken it. with a liaison of a few yolks of eggs, then pour it into the tureen. 25J. Marquise-SOlip. — Keep boiling, on the side of the fire, thiee or four quarts of poultry-stock for thickened soup (see art. 246), which let clarify well. . . , , . Blanch eighteen middling-sized tender lettuces, which drain and braise; when nearly done, drain them, spunge off all the tat, then open their leaves, so as to stuff the lettuces with a little veal or poultry quenelle farce-meat, kept rather firm. Fold the lettuces up again, so as