THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 358 772. Partridge-cutlets with Colbert-sauce. Draw and singe three young tender partridges, cut each ot them in two lengthwise, then split the meat of the pinion-bone of each leg ; intro- duce the finger between the skin and meat, in order to bring the paw back into the aperture by folding it, and making it come out on the opposite side; slightly beat each half-partridge, trim them, diminishing as much as possible the bones of the sides ; season them on both their sides with salt and pepper, roll them in melted butter, breadcrumb, and broil them on a slow fire for twelve minutes, turning them ; when done, dish them up, pour on the bottom of the dish some good Colbert-sauce (see art. 180). 773. Partridge-‘pain’ with aspic-jelly. Pound the meat of two cooked partridges, and their livers, with a piece of good butter; season, and pass them through a sieve. — With the body and other bones of the partridges prepare a little game-sauce, which let reduce with a little madeira - wine; when it is at the degree requisite, add to it a glassful of very firm aspic-jelly ; with this sauce, dilute the partridge-puree, which then pour into a plain cylinder-mould, place this mould in a basin, surround it to height with pounded ice, m order to let the preparation get firm. — An hour after, quickly dip the mould in warm water, and turn the ‘pain' out on a cold dish. 774. Legs of partridge, in ruffles. When an entree of partridge-fillets has been served, there is a process of utilising the legs. # Take a dozen raw legs of partridge ; bone them, leaving only the pinion-bone, cutting the paws at the joint. Place the legs in a flat stew- pan with butter, let them fry on both sides; sprinkle over two table- spoonfuls of chopped onion, and a handful of fresh mushrooms, also chopped ; remove the stewpan back on a slow fire, or to the entrance ot the oven ; when the moisture of the fine-herbs has reduced, the legs should prove done; let them cool in the stewpan, and take them out; then mix