286 THE HOUSEHOLD COOIvEIiY-BOOK. 038. Lamb-cutlets, ‘a la jardiniere’. Trim fifteen fine lamb-cutlets, to an equal shape, proceeding accord- ing to the same method as applied to mutton-cutlets ; season, and range them on the bottom of a flat stewpan, masked with tepid butter 5 fry the cutlets on a brisk fire, turning them; when the meat has set to the degree requisite, drain the butter off the stewpan, baste the cutlets with a little melted glaze, roll them, over the fire 5 and dish them in a ciicle, on a border of potatoes ; then fill the hollow of the circle with a garnish of new vegetables: (see art. 77). Serve separately a sauceboatful of thickened gravy. 639. ‘Timbale’ of lamb-sweetbreads. Line a ‘timbale’- mould with short-paste (see art. 55); mask the bottom and sides of the case with a layer of veal force-meat with chives, mixed with a few spoonfuls of lean raw ham cut in fine dice. Blanch a score of lamb-sweetbreads, then fry them on a biisk fiie with some melted bacon ; season them ; two minutes after, take them off the fire, and let them cool; range them in layers into the timbale , altei- nating each of the layers with the remainder ol the force-meat; covei the top with force-meat, then with a round of paste, which solder to the out- sides with the utmost carefulness; set the ‘timbale’ on a little baking-tin, push it thus into a moderate oven. An hour after, remove it, turn it out on a warm dish; make a round aperture on the top, infilter into the in- terior a little thickened good gravy; put back the round that has been removed, immediately serve the ‘timbale. 640. Lambs’ feet, with curry-sauce. Singe sixteen lambs’ feet, which tie together by lour and four, let them boil in a white-stock, as indicated for the calf’s head. When done, drain them, remove the bone, range them in a saute-pan, and mix them up with cooked mushroom-heads, and poached ‘quenelles’; mask them with a good curry-sauce. — On the other baud, take some boiled rice, with which fill a dozen buttered ‘dariole’- moulds; as soon as the rice