THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY- BOOK. 502 half a bottle of champagne, a few blades of orange- or lemon-zest, as Avell as the juice of two oranges ; pass the liquid through a cloth, let it cool on plain ice previous to serving it. 1093. Raspberry-drink. Pour into an ice-box a quart of raspberry-juice already sweetened, giving by the syrup-scale twenty degrees ; pack the ice-box slightly with ice, merely to grain the preparation; which stir with a spoon, from time to time, yet without working it; five minutes previous to serving it. mix into it a bottle of good claret. Serve this drink in a china- or crystal vessel. 1094. Apple-jelly in small glasses. Fruit-jellies, meant to be served as a compote, or garnish of a com- pote, will be far best preserved in jelly-glasses of the kind represented by the drawing 366 ; in these conditions the jelly may be turned out on the centre of a compote-dish ; if the jelly is well prepared, it ought to maintain itself upright, and in shape ; then, if a pretty circle of fruits is ranged all round the jelly, a compote of distinguished appearance is obtained. Choose apples exactly ripe, but a little acid; renettas and calvilles are not so suitable, as other sorts of inferior quality. Divide the apples into quarters, mince them without peeling them; place them in a well tinned stewpan, moisten them, just to cover, with warm water; cover the stewpan, set it on the fire; let the liquid boil from twelve to fifteen minutes, that is, until the moment when the apples begin to melt. Place a sieve on a large kitchen-basin, pour the apples, as well as the liquid, on the sieve; then filter the juice. Weigh the apple-juice, put it into a copper-basin, add to it three fourths of its weight of good sugar, broken or cut into small pieces; set the basin on the fire, carefully skim the jelly, let it boil for ten or twelve minutes ; at this degree, if the skimmer is dipped into the jelly, this should coat the metal, and fall in beads; then remove the jelly back to the side of the fire, skim it again, mix into it half a stick of vanilla, and