THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 112 with three quarts of light broth; season them, add a bunch garnished with aromatics. Boil the potatoes on a moderate fire, and pass them twice through a sieve; warm now the puree, stirring it; at the first bubbling, thicken it with a liaison of four yolks of eggs ; finish the soup with a pinch of nutmeg, a little chopped parsley, and a piece of butter; immediately pour it into the tureen, add to it the pieces of leek, well drained, and cut in thick pieces. 276. Potato-puree, a la fanbonne. — Peel a score of raw potatoes ; divide them in quarters, and boil them as directed, art. 275 ; pass them through a sieve ; dilute the puree with broth. Let the soup boil, stirring it; immediately remove it to the side of the fire, add to it a little 4julienne’ of cooked vegetables, composed of onions, leeks, carrots, turnips, and celery-roots; besides this mix in two handfuls of raw fine green-pease. Twenty minutes after, skim the soup, thicken it with a liaison of three yolks of eggs, finish it with a piece of butter. 277. Chicory-puree, with croutons. — Boil in salted water, five or six chicory-heads, so as to keep only the white parts ; drain, refresh them, press the water out, and chop them. — Melt a piece of butter in a stew- pan ; when it is quite warm, mix into it the chicory, let it fry for a few minutes, stirring it; sprinkle over a pinch of flour, moisten it with a quart of broth, and a little boiled milk ; stir the soup until ebullition, season it well, and remove it back to the side of the fire; let it boil gently for half an hour; then pass it through a fine sieve, or a tammy ; let it boil, thicken it with a liaison of a few yolks of eggs mixed with raw cream ; serve separately a plate of bread-‘croutons fried with buttei. 278. Green-pease puree, with croutons. — Prepare a puree, with green - pease boiled in water; pour it into a stewpan, dilute it w ith broth, again strain it, let it boil, stirring it, lest it might stick to the bottom of the stewpan: immediately remove it to the side of the file. Add to it a pinch of sugar and the salt requisite ; finish it with a piece of butter, pour it into the tureen. Serve it with little ‘croutons fried with butter. — This soup may be served with ‘julienne’, with little quenelles, or else with boiled rice.