384 TIIE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. of buttered paper, let it cool; then divide it into squares about two inches long; roll these squares in grated parmesan, dip them into beaten eggs, and breadcrumb them ; fry them in plenty of hot frying-fat; let them take a fine color, drain, and dish them up in a group. 827. Risot with parmesan. Chop an onion fine, put it into a stewpan with a piece of butter, or of beef-marrow chopped, and melted; stir it with a wooden spoon, till it is slightly colored ; then add a pound of best rice, rubbed, but not washed; let it fry for a few seconds ; moisten it to three times its height with broth, cover the pan, boil the rice at a good fire, on a low trevet, so that it may not adhere to the bottom of the pan; fifteen to sixteen minutes’ ebullition will suffice : at this point, the rice ought to be still firm, but well done, and no longer crackling between the teeth: it ought to be about dry; withdraw then die pan from the fire, keeping it covered for five minutes : then incorporate with the rice two handfuls of fresh scraped parmesan, as well as four or five ounces of good butter, divided into little bits; range the risot in a deep dish, moisten it with a little melted glaze; send up separately a plate of scraped parmesan. 828. Dumplings (kloese), with bread. Cut into dice the white crumb of six or eight dinner-rolls; put it into a kitchen-basin, pour some boiling milk over, and leave it to soak; a quarter of an hour after, extract all the moisture, place it in a stewpan, bray with a spoon, and heat it in order to thicken it; then remove it off the fire, season, and introduce into it five ounces of butter in little bits, three or four eggs, two handfuls of small fried bread- crusts, in dice, and six ounces of streaky-bacon, also cut into small dice and fried: the preparation should be compact enough to be divided into small parts, which roll on a floured table. A little previous to serving, plunge the dumplings into salted boiling water, boil the liquid for seven or eight minutes (keeping the stewpan covered), then remove it back. Eight or ten minutes after, drain the dumplings, dish them up, and pour over some brown clarified butter.