132 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. with a teaspoon little bits of the preparation previously got ready, and range them transversally on this strip about an inch from its edges; moisten the paste all round the preparation, then fold the paste over in such a manner as to cover this preparation ; cut then the ‘rissoles’ with a channeled paste-cutter (see drawing 92); this done, cut the paste straight, and begin the same operation again. Dip the ‘rissoles’ into beaten eggs, fry them on a slow lire, clish them in a nice group on a folded napkin. 317. Ox-palate rissoles. Put into a stewpan a ‘salpicon’ of ox-palate-fillets, mix it up with a quarter its volume of cooked mushrooms cut the same way ; thicken this salpicon’ with reduced ‘bechamel’-sauce, finished with a little glaze; let it cool, then divide it into little pieces, which roll up to a round shape, and with them form the ‘rissoles’, proceeding as told, art. 316. When it is time to serve, let the ‘rissoles’ fry, drain, and dish them. 318. Marrow ‘rissoles’. Let soak whole a large piece of beef-marrow; boil it in broth, let it cool in its own liquor, then divide it into little bits the size of an olive; •let them cool well, to dip them twice into some good, well reduced brown- sauce, finished with glaze, in order to be able to coat them nicely; range these pieces one by one on a baking-sheet, let the sauce cool. Now form the ‘rissoles’, proceeding as said above, garnishing each of them with a piece of this sauced marrow ; cut them with a tin-cutter, breadcrumb them, equalise, and let them fry on a slow fire; drain, and dish them,.in a group, on a folded napkin. 319. Pike ‘rissoles’. Prepare some quenelle force-meat, in the same conditions as for anchovy-patties. — Take some fine short-paste, prepared with ten ounces of butter, and a pound of flour. Let this paste set, then roll it out, cut it with a channeled tin-cutter of two inches’ diameter; on the centre of each of these flats set a little ball of force-meat; moisten the paste with the aid of a paste-brush, then fold the flat in such a manner, that the force-meat