403 VEGETABLES. — LETTUCE, CABBAGE, CAULIFLOWER,. 881. Artichoke-bottoms, ‘a la Villeroi’. Choose some small artichoke-bottoms, cooked; if they should be large, cut them across, dip them in a ‘Villeroi’-sauce, range them, one by one, at equal distance, in an iron-plate ; let the sauce be well cooled, then roll the artichokes in grated breadcrumb; dip them in beaten eggs, and breadcrumb them again. Let them fry to a nice color, and serve them. ‘Villeroi'-sauce. The sauce, called ‘Villeroi’, is prepared with white- sauce, consistent, reduced, then thickened with raw yolks of eggs; these yolks ought to be simply brayed (broyes), and mixed with a little butter, divided into small pieces. 882. Cabbage ‘timbale’. Choose the cabbage large, either crisped, or with fine heart; remove its hard stems, disengage, one by one, all 'the tender leaves ; wash them well, let them blanch in salted water for a quarter of an hour; drain them, refresh them, spread them on a cloth. — Chop two onions, let them fry, without however allowing them to take color; add the chopped leaves of the cabbage, fry them on a slow fire, season them, take them off the fire, let them nearly cool; then mix them up with an equal quantity of sausage-meat, two handfuls of bread-crumb, a few eggs, and last ot all, with a pinch of parsley chopped. Mask the bottom and sides of a large ‘timbale’-mould, with thin slices of bacon, against which set some blanched cabbage-leaves, placed one upon the other, so as to leave no free space ; place then on the bot- tom ot the mould a layer of the force-meat previously prepared; mask this layer with cabbage-leaves ; finish filling the mould thus, layer by layer, alternating force-meat and cabbage-leaves ; cover the upper sur- lace vitli bacon, push the mould into a slack oven, and leave it therein lor an hour and a half. — Drain the fat off the mould, turn the ‘timbale’ out on a dish, remove the bacon from the top ; carefully spunge away the fat ot the dish ; pour over the cabbage a little brown-sauce. 20*