422 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. into tlic pan, thicken with a tablespoonful of potato-flour, diluted cold. Let the sauce boil, add to it six tablespoonfuls of preserved cherries, previously refreshed in tepid water. 914. Bread-and-butter-pudding, in pie-dish. Put four whole eggs into a kitchen-basin, acid to them a grain of salt, a piece of lemon- or orange-zest, and four tablespoonfuls of powder- sugar. Beat the preparation, dilute it with three glassfuls of cold milk; five minutes after, pass it through a sieve. Take a pie-dish of the kind represented by the drawing 175. Cut into thin slices a piece of household-bread, without its crust; butter each of these slices, on one side, range them by layers in a dish, sprinkling over each layer a pinch of dry smyrna-raisins or currants. Then pour the preparation on the buttered bread ; put the dish into a flat stewpan with a little water on the bottom, push it into a very slack oven; let the pudding bake for twenty-five or thirty minutes ; when taken out of the oven, sprinkle over powcler-sugar, flavored with lemon, and serve it immediately. 915. Bread-and-marrow-pudding. Parboil in boiling water nine ounces of bread-crumb, immediately press out its moisture, bray it in a stewpan with the aid of a spoon; then add to it nine ounces of chopped beef-marrow, a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, a little chopped zest, and a pinch of powder-ginger. Dilute the preparation with four whole eggs, and a glass of brandy; add to it twelve ounces of whole raisins, and four ounces of preserved cedrat cut up in dice. Wrap the preparation up in a buttered and floured napkin, which tie up firmly; plunge the pudding into boiling water, boil it for two hours ; then drain it, unwrap it, dish it up, pour over a little apricot-sauce with kirsch (see art. 907). 916. Rice-pudding with apples. Blanch half a pound of good rice, drain it, refresh, and put it into a stewpan ; moisten it, to twice its height, with warm milk, and thus let it boil on a slow fire; when it is dry and tender, sweeten it, add to