THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 400 wash them well, let them boil in plenty of water for ten minutes; then drain, refresh, and equalise them*, range them in a stewpan spread with remains of bacon ; salt them, moisten them to height, with broth from which the fat has not been skimmed, a little white-wine, or the juice of a lemon ; cover them with paper, boil them on a moderate fire; Avhen they are at the degree requisite, drain them well; trim and dish them up ; mask them with good ‘bechamel’-sauce, reduced with cream. — Celery may be served simply with a little gravy or brown-sauce. 874. Jerusalem-artichokes. Peel some Jerusalem-artichokes, trim them to a round shape; let them boil in salted water, keeping them rather firm; drain them, place them in a stewpan with butter, and thus let them fry on a slow fire ; season them; when they have well set, dish them up, and mask them with a little white- or brown-sauce. 875. Cardoons, with brown-sauce. Choose the cardoons white and tender; remove all their green stems, cut the white ones to lengths of two or three inches, wash them, plunge them into boiling salted water, acidulated with citric-acid, or white vinegar : add to them a piece of bread-crumb, in order to absorb the natural bitterness of the cardoons ; let them boil, kept covered, for twenty minutes ; then remove them with the skimmer, refresh them, wipe them well with a cloth, in order to remove the thin skin sticking to them, then range them in a stewpan spread with the remains of bacon, and moisten them to cover with light broth, of which the fat is not skimmed, add to them a little white-wine, a little acid, a teaspoonful of flour, diluted with water, a little salt, and spices. Cover them with paper, let them boil on a slow fire. At serving-time, drain the cardoons, dish them up, mask them with a little brown-sauce. — Cardoons, prepared thus, may be served also with butter-sauce, ‘bechamel’-sauce, or brown-sauce. They may be sur- rounded by crusts garnished with beef-marrow. — Cardoons may be also gratinated.