230 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. spit, dish it, and surround it with fried potatoes ; serve at the same time a piquant-sauce, mixed with the stock ol the dripping-pan, the fat of which has been removed. 525. Beef-muzzle, piquant-sauce. The piece called muzzle of beef, is that soft part situated at the end of the muzzle, to which the palate is left adhering; muzzle of beef is a great resource for the kitchen of the middle-class; as it is cheap, and excellent, if well prepared. — Singe a muzzle of beef, let it soak for a few hours, put it into a stewpan with water, let the liquid boil; then drain the muzzle, spunge it, scrape its inside, in order to disengage the white skin ; let it boil, proceeding as prescribed for calf’s head, but care- fully removing the fillet of the palate, as soon as it is done. When the ox-muzzle is done to the degree requisite, drain it, cut it, as well as the palate, into middling-sized squares, which put into a stewpan ; moisten them to nearly their height with a piquant-sauce, or a chopped - sauce; let the stew simmer on a very slow fire for a quarter of an hour, an then dish it. 526. Bullock’s-heart, a la daube. Cut into large squares the heart of an ox ; remove the blood, wipe it then lard it with fillets of raw ham and bacon ; put it into a kitchen- basin, season it with salt and pepper, pour over a glassful of white wine. Let the meat macerate for a few hours. - Chop half a pound of bacon let it melt in an earthen stock-pot, add it to the meat well drained , le it fry for ten or fifteen minutes ; then add to it the stock of the marinade, a bunch of aromatics, and a few small onions. Cover the stock-pot with a round of strong paper, then with a plate ; remove it back on hot ashes boil the meat for three hours on a slow fire. At serving- .me, dish the meat; skim the fat off its stock, add to it a small handful of presene capers, pour it over the meat, after having removed the bunch. 527. ‘Grenadine* of beef-fillet. Cut slantwise, and off the thickest part of the head-piece of a beef- fillet, four or five slices, the thickness of a fifth of an inch, an o ,