146 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. Five minutes after the ‘cannelons’ have been taken out of the oven, till their hollow with a ‘salpicon’ of game, poultry, or even sweetbread, mixed with truffles, mushrooms, or pickled tongue, according to the nature of the meat, that has been employed. — The ‘cannelons’ are filled, by the aid of a little silk-bag, or a cornet of strong paper. 348. Fat-liver ‘timbales’. Prepare a pound and a quarter of poultry force-meat; place it in a kitchen-basin, add to it four tablespoonfuls of puree of cooked poultry- livers. With this force-meat fill fourteen large dariole-moulds, which place in a saute-pan ; let the force-meat poach in the ‘bain-marie’, that is, without ebullition. As soon as the force-meat has got firm, turn the ‘tim- bales’ out, let them cool, then dip them into beaten eggs, breadcrumb them, then scoop them on the top with a small paste-cutter, in order to manage subsequently an aperture on that side. A few minutes previous to serving, plunge these ‘timbales’ into hot fat, so as to impart to them a fine color; drain them, open, draw them, leaving but a little thickness, on the sides, and at the bottom ; then fill them with a ‘salpicon’ of fat-liver, mixed with truffles, and thickened with a little good brown-sauce, reduced with the trimmings of raw truffles. Cover the ‘timbales’, dish them up in a pyramid, on a folded napkin. 349. Lamb-sweetbread, ‘a la Villeroi’. Blanch fifteen fine lamb-sweetbreads, let them cool with a light weight on, then split each of them in two broadwise, fry these scollops in butter, trim them to an equal shape ; when they have cooled, mask them with ‘Villeroi’- sauce, then breadcrumb them twice; now fry them to a nice color, drain, and dish them in a group, on a napkin ; set a bunch of fried parsley on the top. 350. Larks in their nest. Bone ten larks, season them, fill them with a ‘gratin’ force-meat, mixed with a few spoonfuls of poultry-livers, and a few raw truffles cut in dice; fold the ‘galantines’, giving them a round shape; surround