THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 328 713. Duck with turnips. Singe and draw a line large duck, wash it inwardly, wipe, and truss it with the legs inside; put it into a stewpan with chopped bacon, and two small onions; fry it over a slow lire, season, moisten to three-parts height with wine and broth; let the liquid boil, add to it a garnished bunch, and draw the stewpan on the side of the lire; stew the duck with hot ashes on the lid ; half an hour after, thicken the stock slightly with a little brown-sauce. On the other hand, prepare a garnish ol good turnips, (whole, it small ; and, if large, divided in quarters) ; blanch, drain them on a cloth, let them take color in a frying-pan with lard on a brisk lire, and season with salt, pepper, and a little sugar. When the duck is three-parts done, add to it the turnips, and continue gently boiling, till the last moment; then drain the duck, and dish it up. Remove the fat from the sauce, take the bouquet out, and pour the garnish round the duck. 714. Ducks with olives. Draw two young ducks, singe them, truss them, let them blanch in boiling water for a lew minutes; then drain, and put them into a stew pan with melted bacon, let them fry until they have taken a line color; then moisten them, just to height, with broth ; add to this a bunch of parsley garnished with aromatics, one onion, one carrot, and some peppercorns; give the liquid a few minutes’ ebullition ; remove the stewpan back on a slow lire, finish braising the ducks quite gently, turning them from time to time, then drain them on a baking-sheet, and untiuss them; lighten the cooking-stock with a glassful ol white wine, let it boil, skim oil its fat, pass it through a sieve, let it reduce to hall-glaze; thicken it with a little brown-sauce or kneaded-butter; add to it four dozen large olives, blanched and stoned; dish up the ducks, baste them with sauce and garnish. 715. Potted fat-liver, with jelly. Keep for two hours, on the ice, ajar or case ol Strasburg-lat-hver; . then open it, and remove the fat from off its top ; then, with the aid of an iron-spoon, which is dipped into very warm water, cut the contents