THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 2G2 to cover with broth and wine ; let the liquid boil. Then drain the meat, refresh, and trim it. — Cut in dice two large onions, slightly try them with butter ; add to them the meat, and now let them fry together, till they have taken a yellow shade ; season them, sprinkle over two table- spoonfuls of flour, and the same of curry - powder ; three minutes alter, moisten them, just to cover, with the cooking-stock 5 stir the liquid until starting to ebullition, which keep up for ten minutes; remove the stewpan back to a more moderate lire, add to it a bunch of parsley, garnished with aromatics, one carrot, six ounces of raw ham cut in dice, two small onions, and some mushroom-trimmings. When the meat is done, drain it, trim it, and range it into a smaller stewpan; let the sauce reduce quickly to the degree requisite; thicken it then with a few yolks of eggs, diluted with cream, immediately pour it on the meat. Dish the stew, accompany it with a dish of rice boiled in water. 589. Montglas of veal, with crusts. Take a cooked minion-fillet of veal, trim away the sinewy parts, and divide it in slices, an eighth of an inch thick, and an inch wide; cut these slices transversally, thus obtaining some small square fillets; which put into a stewpan, add half their volume of cooked pickled ox-tongue, and mushrooms cut in fillets. Pour into a flat stewpan, two gills of brown-sauce, work it, intro- ducing into it a few tablespoonfuls of madeira, mix the hnontglas’ with it, warm it without ebullition ; season with a little cayenne-pepper, dish up, and surround it with fried bread-crusts glazed with the paste- brush. 590. Larded veal-sweetbreads, with sorrel. The model is given here of a larded veal-sweetbread. — Previous to larding the veal-sweetbreads, they must be blanched without excess: then refresh them, and let them cool with a light weight on; they can only be larded, when perfectly cold. Trim four veal-sweetbreads of their sinewy skin, lard them on the smoother side with four rows of bacon-fillets. — Mask the bottom of a