EGGS. - FARCED, FRIED, MIXED, GRATINATED. 369 794. Farced eggs. Loil hard ten eggs, cut each ot them in two lengthwise; separate the whites from the yolks, which chop ; also chop in equal parts, but not too tine, some cooked mushrooms, pickled tongue, and cooked poultry- meat, or veal-fillets; mix this meat up with the chopped yolks into a kitchen-basin; season the preparation, thicken it with a few spoonfuls °f.good 1 bechamel’-sauce, so as to keep it of a nice consistence. W ith this preparation fill the hollow of the halves of eggs, smoothe it, .giung the halves ot eggs the shape of a whole egg; let them cool well, then roll them in bread-crumb; dip them into beaten eggs, and bread- crumb them again. — At serving-time, plunge the eggs into plenty of hot frying-fat; when they have taken a nice color, drain them, dish them up in a group, on a folded napkin. 795. Eggs, with onions. Boil hard ten fresh eggs, let them cool in plenty of water, previous ;o removing their shell. — Mince five or six white onions, let them slightly blanch, drain them well; put them into a stewpan with butter, et them try at a slow fire ; season them, sprinkle over a tablespoonful of lour, another of curry-powder ; then moisten them with a little gravy; dr the stew till ebullition, remove it back to a moderate fire, and thus inisli cooking the onions. In the meanwhile, remove the shells from the eggs, which warm in »ater; drain them, cut them in slices transversally, range them on a i ish. When the onions are done, finish them with a liaison of two or aree yolks of eggs, mixed with a spoonful of curry-powder, and diluted nth a little raw cream; pour the stew over the well warmed ee-e-s uo 796. Fried eggs with tomatas. M aim some butter, hog s lard, or oil, in a small frying-pan ; hold the iu m a sloping direction, so that all the liquid may gather to one side; when is quite hot, break an egg over the liquid, season it, boil it so, that the J k, while remaining liquid, proves wrapped up entirely by the white.