THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 440 place this dish in a deep baking-sheet, with a little warm water on the bottom ; push it into a slack oven, and leave it there, till the preparation is set; then take the dish out, and serve the cream. 954. Pots of cream with lemon. Measure six little creampotf'uls of good raw milk; pour it into a kitchen-basin, introduce into it eight tablespoonfuls of powder-sugar, five yolks of eggs, and three whole eggs. Bray the eggs with a whisk, mix into the preparation half the zest of a lemon, let it infuse for ten or twelve minutes ; pass the liquid then, through a. sieve, and with it, fill eight or nine cream-pots, which place in a stewpan with some warm water : it must come to half the height of the little pots. Set the stewpan on the fire, let the liquid boil, immediately taking it off the fire. Cover the stewpan, keep it at the. entrance of the oven, or else on a slow fire, with hot ashes on its lid, in order to keep the liquid at the same degree of heat, but without any ebullition. As soon as the cream has got firm, remove these little pots, wipe them, let them cool, previous to serving them. In order to prepare vanilla-cream, it is convenient to boil half of the milk, in order first of all to infuse the vanilla. — To prepare little cream-pots with coffee, the coffee must be introduced roasted in berries, proceeding as indicated for coffee-glaze. 955. Marbled, or glazed, cream. Mix up well in a kitchen-basin six or seven yolks of eggs, a table- spoonful of common flour, or of rice-rneal, and half a pound of powder- sugar ; dilute the preparation with a pint and a half of milk, pass it through a sieve, into a stewpan; stir it on the fire till it be well thickened, and ready to boil, then remove it back immediately; mix into this cream the zest of a lemon, pour it into the basin ; let it cool, stirring it from time to time; remove the zest, pour the cream on a deep dish. In order to glaze the cream, its surface must be sprinkled with pow- der-sugar ; this surface then is burnt, either with the red-hot salamander, or with an omelet-iron. — In order to marble the cream, there must be