THICKENED SOUPS. 101 entirely to enclose the force-meat; trim them, and range them on the bottom ot a saute-pan, pour over a little half-glaze, cover them with a buttered paper, and thus let the force-meat poach in the oven, basting the lettuces. At serving-time, skim well the fat off the soup, thicken it with a few yolks of eggs, diluted with a little cream; pour the soup into the tureen, passing it tlnough a line colander. Add a lew tablespoonfuls of fresh green-pease, boiled in salted water. Drain the lettuces, range them in a deep dish, glaze, and serve them separately. 252. Gourniets-soup. - With two tablespoonfuls of rice-flour, and a quarter of a pound of butter, prepare a light Wix7; moisten it with four quarts of poultry-broth, stir it with a spoon till boiling, then remove it to the side of the lire, and thus let it clarify. Take the meat of a cooked chicken, pound it, season, and add to it a piece of butter, and live or six raw yolks of eggs ; pass it through a tammy. Put into the tureen a few spoonfuls of green asparagus-heads, and two dozen picked crayfish-tails cut in two. At seiving-time, skim the lat off the soup, which thicken witli the poultry-preparation, without allowing it to boil; then pour it into the tureen, passing it through a line colander. 25d. Rachel-soup. —'Keep in ebullition, on the side of the fire, three or four quarts of poultry-stock for thick soup. Spread in layers on a buttered baking-sheet, twelve ounces of poultry lorce-meat with cream (see art. 119), push it into the oven, and let it poach: two minutes will do. Divide it then in rounds, with the aid of a paste-cutter, which rounds put into the tureen with two handfuls of cooked fresh green-pease. Skim the soup carefully, thicken it with a few yolks of eggs; pass it through a line colander, and thus pour it into the tureen. 254. Royal-soup. — Prepare three or four quarts of poultry-stock for thick soup; let it clarify for twenty-live minutes on the side of the lire. Pound the fillets of a raw chicken with two or three raw truffles add four ounces of butter, and two yolks of eggs ; season the force-meat,