ELEMENTARY METHODS. — COMPOSED GARNISH. 47 stoned olives and gerkins, turned in balls. — These garnishes are mixed together in a saute-pan, excepting the brains and gerkins, which are dished on the top ; the garnish is thickened with a little turtle-sauce. This garnish may also be applied to hot entrees. ' t / 98. How to prepare ‘Cliivry’- garnish, for removes. — This garnish is composed ot little ‘bouche.es’, garnished with oysters; of potato- croquettes’, muscles ‘a la Villeroi’, and large crayfish in their natural condition. These garnishes are dished in groups, all round the removes. 99. How to prepare ‘Chambord’-garnish, for removes. - This garnish is composed of soft-roes a la Villeroi, little quenelles formed with the spoon, crayfish-tails, whole truffles, and mushroom-heads. These garnishes are dished in groups, separated by a whole crayfish, the tail of which is picked; the ‘quenelles’ and mushrooms are slightly masked with a clear Geneva-sauce. 100. How to prepare ‘Providence’- garnish for removes. — This garnish is composed of small truffles shaped whole, of mushroom-heads scollops of fat-livers, cut in rounds, small moulded ‘quenelles’, stoned and blanched olives. All these garnishes are mixed together in a saute-pan, and thickened with a madeira-sauce. This garnish is also to be applied to warm entrees. 101. How to prepare ‘Provencale’- garnish for removes. — This . garnish is composed simply of farced tomatas and mushrooms, which are dished m separate groups. Some madeira-sauce is served separately. 102. How to prepare ‘regency’- garnish, for removes. — This garnish IS composed of large ‘quenelles’ adorned with truffles, of trimmed cray- fish-tails, cocks’-kidneys, whole truffles, and mushrooms. — These gar- nishes are dished in groups round the removes, separating them by : shades and species; the mushrooms are masked with ‘regence’-sauce w truffles are glazed with the paste-brush. 103. How to prepare garnish ‘a la fermiere’, for removes. — This . garnish is composed of cabbage braised in little flowrets, braised let-