75 ELEMENTARY METHODS. - HOT SAUCES. color; moisten them with half a glassful of madeira ; three minutes after, add the same of meat-glaze as of madeira; let the liquid boil, take it off the tire, thicken it with three ounces of butter kneaded Avith fresh bread- crumb ; add to it a pinch of nutmeg, and another of chopped parsley; stir the sauce at the side of the fire, till the paste be dissolved, and the sauce thickened at the degree requisite, but do not uIIoav it to boil. 190. Hoav to prepare Soubise- sauce. — Pour into a little stewpan five gills of brown-sauce, reduced to the degree requisite with veal-stock and madeira; work it on the fire (without ebullition) introducing into it a pinch of cayenne-pepper, and four or five tablespoonfuls of Soubise- puree. 191. How to prepare partridge-sauce. — Prepare about tAvo gills of partridge-extract, proceeding according to the prescriptions given in the art. 126. — Reduce four gills of brown-sauce, stirring it; gradually introduce into the sauce the game-extract; the sauce being thickened nicely, finish it Avith two tablespoonfuls of madeira; give it tAvo boils-up more, and pass it through a tammy. 192. Hoav to prepare salmis-sauce. — Prepare some sauce with game- extract: pheasant, snipe, or partridge ; proceeding as indicated, art. 126. The sauce being finished, Avork it on the fire, introducing into it (without ebullition) four tablespoonfuls ot puree of liver of the same game, which has served for the preparation of the sauce. 193. Hoav to prepare ‘Regency’-sauce. — Form to an olive-shape three dozen small raAv truffles, which put into a stewpan with a glassful ot good Rhine-wine, and of good poultry-glaze, the size of a nut; boil them covered, letting the moisture reduce. — On the other hand, pour into a steAvpan tAvo gills of Rhine-wine; to which add a shalbt, a bunch ot parsley garnished with aromatics, some trimmings of raw truffles; cover the steAvpan, and let the Avine reduce one half. — Pour into a flat stewpan, tour gills ot brown-sauce, which let reduce one third, gradually introducing into it a gill of concentrated good poultry-stock; last of all, introduce the Avine; when succulent, and thickened to the degree