THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 58 milky particles which have settled to the bottom; then warm it, and take it off the fire before taking color. 132. How to prepare kneaded-butter. — Kneaded-butter is often employed to thicken light sauces at the time of serving. - Put the butter into a small basin, and add to it, with the aid of a wooden spoon, an equal quantity of flour, so as to form a smooth paste. 133 How to prepare ancliovy-butter. — Take good anchovies, not too old, bone them, put the fillets'into the mortar, pound them, add to them twice their volume of good butter; pass the preparation throng i a sieve. 134. How to prepare crayfish-butter. — Take the shell from the tail, body, and claws, of some cooked crayfish; pound them with butter, put them into a small stewpan, which set on a very slow fire; ly t e shells until the butter takes color ; it must be carefully stirred ; moisten with a little warm water, let the liquid boil for five minutes, then pour all on a cloth, which must be wrung by two persons; take care to let the liquid drop into a kitchen-basin, with a little cold water at the bottom, so that the butter may congeal. As soon as firm, remove, and wipe it well. Lobster-, or prawn-butter, is prepared the same way. 135. How to prepare ‘ronx’. - What is called ‘roux’, is cooked flour, with which sauces are generally thickened. - In order to prepare a W, take a little more flour than butter, let the butter melt in a stewpan, and as soon as it is quite hot, introduce into it the flour so as to form a light paste ; at this degree remove the stewpan on a moderate fire fry the paste for a few minutes only, if the sauce is to be yellow le it take a darker color, if the sauce is meant to get brown ; the essential thing is to give color to the flour, without burning it. 136. How to thicken white - sauces with eggs. — A liaison is , <• r vnlks of es-ffs diluted with a little raw cream, composed of very fresh yolks ot eggs, k or broth In order to thicken a sauce, it must be boiling, it is taken off the fire a spoonful of it is introduced into the liaison, which L pourei into the sauce, while stirring it; slightly cook the liaison