THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 450 (see art. 980); thicken then this preparation, stirring it on ice; add to it a fine ‘salpicon of preserved fruit, mixed up with some small raisins, and a few spoonfuls of maraschino ; pour the preparation into the mould, which shut up; lute the junctures with common paste, and cover the mould with ice; let it pack thus for three quarters of an hour; then dip it into tepid Avater, and turn the pudding out on a cold dish. f .. 974. Apple-tartlets, with trellice-work. Line eight or ten tartlet-moulds with short - paste ; fill them Avith apple-marmalade kept rather consistent; then smootlie this marmalade Avith the blade of a knife, then with little strips of paste, rolled on the floured table, form a trellice-work in the manner repre- sented by the draAving ; solder these strips to the paste of the rim, which pinch; egg the surface, range the Draw. 322. tartlets on a baking-sheet, bake them in a slack oven for tAventy minutes ; three minutes previous to taking the tartlets out of the oven, sprinkle over sugar, in order to glaze them ; let them cool well, previous to serving them. 975. Fecula flummery. Dilute nine ounces of ‘fecula’ Avith half a glassful of cold milk. — Pour into a steAvpan a glassful and a half of milk , add to it tlnee quarters of a glassful of sugar, the zest of half a lemon, and a grain of salt; let the liquid boil, remove the zest, introduce into it the fecula diluted cold, whipping the preparation ; immediately take it off the fire, work it Avith a spoon till it be thickened and smooth ; then add to it four ounces and a half of bitter and SAveet almonds, pounded with a little sugar; put it back on the fire, stir it until the first sign of ebullition, then introduce into it five or six whipped Avhites of eggs ; pour it into a large mould, previously dipped into cold water; let it get firm on ice. At serving-time, turn the flummery out on a dish, the bottom of Avhich mask with a puree of raw strawberries or raspberries, SAveetened and Avell cooled.