THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 190 plunge it into boiling salted water slightly acidulated; let the liquid boil for five minutes, then remove the fish immediately back, to the side of the fire; cover it, keeping the liquid simmering for ten or twelv e minutes. Dish the fish, surround it with fresh parsley, serve up separately a housekeeper1 s-sauce (see art. 144). 443. Brill with fine-herbs. Take a well cleansed good brill, split its back all the length ot the principal bone. — Butter the bottom of a gratin-dish, sprinkle over two or three tablespoonfuls of shalots and onions, both of which chopped, as well as two handfuls of fresh mushrooms, also chopped; moisten these fine-herbs with a glassful of brown-sauce, or cold thickened gravy ; add to it a glassful of white wine, place the brill with its black side resting on the fine-herbs ; salt it, sprinkle over a little of the same fine-herbs, and some bread-crumb ; pour on a little melted butter. Set the dish on the fire; at the first bubbling, push it into a slack oven; bake the fish quite gently for half an hour, basting it with its own cooking-stock; when it is done, serve it on the very same dish. 444. Brill with white wine. The brill being cleansed, split it along its back, all down the length of the principal bone ; place it on a gratin-dish of long form, laying the brown side on the bottom of the dish, which is largely buttered ; moisten it with a bottle of white wine and a little water, salt it; cover the vesse set it on the fire ; give the liquid a few babblings, then remove it back to the side of the fire, and keep it there for twenty or twenty-five minutes The fish done, remove it, and place it on a long dish. Mix into the liquid a piece of kneaded-butler, so as to obtain a light sauce; thicken 1 with a liaison of three yolks of eggs; add to it a pinch of chopped parsley, another of nutmeg, a piece of good butter, divided in little bits ; as soon as the butter is dissolved, pour the sauce on the fish. 445. Salad of sole-fillets, with ravigote-sauce. Plunge three cleansed soles into salted and acidulated water; at the first bubbling, remove the stewpan back to side; ten minutes a tei,