16 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 22. How to lard (piquer) poultry and game for roast or entree. — If a chicken or pheasant is to he larded {pique); after being trussed and tied, it is singed once more on the breast-side, so as to get the meat firm. It is wiped and left to cool previous to larding. — In the chapter on game the drawing will be seen representing a pullet and a partridge larded. 23. How to bone (desosser) poultry and game. — All poultry and feather-game, that is to be prepared for a ‘galantine’, must previously be boned; but, above all, it must be slightly singed, well wiped, and plucked; then cutoff the pinions, paws, and neck, preserving the skin of the last as long as possible; the skin is now split all the length of the back, the carcass disengaged on both sides, with the aid of a small knife ; after which the stump of the wings is disengaged, so that the fillets may be reached : if poultry is boned, the minion-fillets may remain on the carcass. When the breast is disengaged, the legs are also disengaged, by dislocating the bone of the first joint, adhering to the carcass; then bone the thick flesh of the leg and the drumstick; cut the carcass, at the junction of the rump, thus to disengage it entirely from the meat; in this condition the piece of poultry or game is entirely boned; nothing remains further to be removed, but the two pinions of the wings, and the sinew of the flesh of the thighs. 24. How to truss and bring-in-sliape poultry and game. - The bringing-in-shape (hcibill&i’) of a chicken consists in feathering, plucking, singeing, drawing, and trussing it. Take a chicken in its feathers, pluck, and slightly singe it. Burn the skin of the paws, till it can be removed, by rubbing it with a cloth. In order to draw the chicken, first split the skin of the neck length- wise, and make the opening wide enough to remove the bag of the stomach; then introduce the forefinger into the hollow of the body, to disengage the interior ; manage a little aperture at the back of the neck {croupion), and remove the intestines at this side ; cut the skin of the neck beneath the head, then the neck of the chicken at the beginning of the stomach, and last of all, cut the paws to equal length. Cioss the pinions over the back.