THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 210 dip them into beaten eggs, breadcrumb them, plunge them immediately into hot frying-fat; when they are of a fine color, and dry on theii out- side, drain them, salt, and dish them. 490. Broiled conger-eel. Take up both the fillets of a thick piece of conger-eel, cleanse them, cut them transversally in thin slices ; let them macerate for an hour w ith salt and vinegar; drain, and spunge them on a cloth; season, and ioil them in oil, then in bread-crumb; range them on a gridiron, let them broil at a moderate fire, basting and turning them ; dish them; serve, at the same time, either a piquant-sauce, or a tartar-sauce. 491. Oysters with white-sauce (a la poulette). Open a few dozen oysters, blanch them with a little white wine; preserve the liquor, wash them, drain them on a cloth, trim them. — Chop an onion, put it into a stewpan with butter, fry it, without allowing it to take color, sprinkle over a large spoonful of flour; fry the flour for two minutes, stirring it; dilute it then, gradually, and off the Are, with the liquor of the oysters, and with broth, so as to obtain a sauce of nice consistence. At the first bubbling, remove it to the side; add to it a bunch of parsley, and some peppercorns; let the sauce clarify for a quarter of an hour; skim off its fat, pass it through a sieve into another stewpan, in order to thicken it with a liaison of three yolks of eggs ; mix into it the oysters, add to it the juice of a lemon, and a pinch of parsley. Serve the stew. 492. Oysters with fine - herbs. Blanch five or six dozen oysters (see art. 48) ; drain them, presen - mg their liquor; beard, and wash them. - Fry in a stewpan, with butter, three tablespoonfuls of chopped onions and slialots, to u m i add seven or eight spoonfuls of fresh mushrooms, also chopped ; let then- moisture reduce, moisten them with a little broth, and a part of the liquor of the oysters; boil the tine-herbs a few minutes, and thicken them with a small piece of kneaded-butter ; then add the oysters ; at the