VEGETABLES. — H0P-SP1TIGS, CARROTS, SORREL, SPINACH. 395 half an hour after, drain them on a cloth, flour them, put them into beaten eggs, immediately drain them, and by degrees let them drop into hot frying-fat; when they are drained, salt them, and dish them up. 860. Carrots with cream. Peel some large tender carrots, mince them in slices, or cut them up in dice ; let them blanch for two minutes in salted water ; then drain them, put them into a stewpan with some butter, add a little salt, and sugar; let them fry on a slow fire, till their moisture be reduced ; then sprinkle over a little flour, moisten them to three-fourths their height with good broth ; let the sauce boil, then remove it on a slow fire. — When the carrots are done, thicken them with a few yolks of eggs, diluted with a little cream ; add to it a pinch of nutmeg, and a piece of butter. 861. Sorrel with gravy. Remove the ribs from a little basketful of garden sorrel-leaves 5 wash them, changing the water, several times ; put them into a stewpan with a little water, let them boil till their green color is lost. Pour them on a sieve, let them drain well, and chop them; put the sorrel then into a stewpan, season it with salt and pepper, moisten it with a little gravy, boil it then quite gently for half an hour, taking care to add a little gravy from time to time ; mind, it must nevertheless remain rather consistent. 862. Spinach, with gravy, and with cream. Carefully pick a pound of fresh, and young spinach, wash it well, let it blanch in salted water, in a basin, for five or six minutes ; drain it well, refresh it, press it between the hands, in order to extract all the water; this done, chop it. Melt a little piece of butter in a stewpan ; mix into it a tablespoonful of flour, which fry for two minutes ; then add to it the spinach, and let it fry for three or four minutes, without leaving it; season it, then moisten it, either with a little gravy, or else with raw cream; fry it for a tew minutes ; finish it, introducing into it three ounces of butter.