134 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. quenelle lorce-meat; now fold the round up, so as entirely to wrap up the preparation forming the ‘rissoles’; slightly press on the edges, bread- crumb them, and fry them to a nice color; drain, and dish them up on a folded napkin. 323. Crayfish-‘croquettes’, ‘a la comtesse’. Prepare a crayfish-‘salpicon’, which keep covered. — Reduce a little ‘bechamel’-sauce, introducing into it a little cream, and a few table- spoonfuls of mushroom-liquor. When it is of nice consistence, finish it with a piece of crayfish - butter, two tablespoonfuls of cooked mush- room, cut in dice ; remove it off the fire; add to this sauce the ‘salpicon’, introducing it carefully ; pour the preparation into a kitchen-basin, and let it cool. Form the ‘croquettes’ in the shape of a cork, round, or flat; breadcrumb, and fry them ; drain, and dish them in a group, on a folded napkin. 324. Lamb-‘croquettes’, with artichokes. Take a piece of cooked and cooled lamb, remove its sinewy skin; cut the meat into small dice, add to it half its volume of artichoke-bot- toms, cut like the meat. Pour some spoonfuls of good ‘bechamel’-sauce into a stewpan, let it reduce, mind stirring it, in order to introduce into it, first some spoonfuls of good cream, and then some spoonfuls of melted glaze; when it is succulent, nicely firm, take it off the fire, and mix in it the ‘salpicon’ previously prepared ; season with a little pepper and nutmeg; spread it on a baking-sheet, in a layer a third of an inch thick, let it cool well; then form the ‘croquettes’, breadcrumb them, and fry them according to the general rules. 325. Rissoles, and ‘croquettes’. If the ‘rissoles’ are prepared with a poultry-‘salpicon’, the ‘croquettes’ may be prepared with some game or fat-liver ‘salpicon’. — If the ‘ris- soles’ are prepared with an oyster-‘salpicon’, the ‘croquettes’ may be prepared with a ‘salpicon’ of crayfish tails or lobster. The essential thing is that the ‘rissoles’ and ‘croquettes’ be not pre- pared precisely with the same species of meat or fish ; yet both the pre-