THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 120 tho side ot the lire, let it boil for forty minutes ; skim off its fat, season it highly, add to it a pinch of cayenne-pepper; thicken it with a liaison of five yolks of eggs. Pour the soup immediately into the tureen, passing it through a sieve; add the oysters, refreshed, drained, trimmed, and cut in two. 296. Sturgeon-soup, with curry.— Cut a piece "of fresh sturgeon, weighing one pound and a half; remove its skin, wash it, season it, let it braise with vegetables, wine, and broth. — On the other hand, mince two onions, one leek, and a piece of celery-root; let these vegetables fry with butter, moisten with three quarts of fish-broth, as well as with the cooking-stock of the sturgeon; stir the liquid until ebullition, then remove it back to the side of the fire ; add to it a bunch of parsley garnished with aromatics, thicken it with two spoonfuls of curry-powder, mixed with two spoonfuls of rice-meal, or potato-flour, diluted together with cold broth ; boil the soup for half an hour, then skim off its fat, pass it through a sieve, add to it the sturgeon-meat, divided in small squares, as well as five or six tablespoonfuls of boiled rice ; give it two bubblings, thicken it with a liaison of three yolks of eggs; pour it then into the tureen. 297. Turtle-soup, mock or genuine.— I will describe both these soups in such a manner as to render their preparation easy. Let me begin with the genuine turtle-soup. Take a good fat fowl, singed, and drawn; cut it up in four parts, which put into a stewpan with the paws, neck, and gizzard ; add a piece of raw ham, a knuckle of veal cut in pieces, some small onions, and a piece of butter. Fry these meats, and season them; when they are of a fine color, sprinkle over a tablespoonful of arrowroot or flour, which fry for two minutes; then moisten the meat with a glassful of dry white wine, and two or three quarts of broth; add a bunch garnished with aromatics, a piece of celery-root, and some peppercorns. Skim the liquid, at the first bubbling remove it back to the side of the fire. When the meat is done, drain it; skim the fat off the soup, pass it through a sieve into another stewpan, which place on the fire; at the first bubbling of the liquid, remove it, so that there be only a partial ebullition.