THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK 74 sherry ; set the stewpan on a brisk fire, and let the liquid reduce one half. — On the other hand, reduce one third five gills of brown-sauce, and two gills of tomata-sauce ; stirring the liquid, and introducing into it two gills of concentrated poultry-stock; last of all, introduce the previously pre- pared wine-infusion. Finish the sauce with a pinch of cayenne-pepper, then pass it through a tammy. 186. How to prepare half-glaze -sauce. Mix in a stewpan foui gills of clear, and concentrated veal-gravy, with half a glass of madeira- wine ; add to this a garnished bunch, start the liquid to ebullition, thicken it with two tablespoonfuls of potato-flour diluted cold. - Immediately remove the sauce to the side of the fire, and let it clarify, but quickly enough at the same time to reduce it to two thirds of its volume ; then skim off its fat, and pass it through a tammy. ■187. How to prepare finauciere-sauce. — Put into a little stewpan a quarter of a pound of raw ham with a few trimmings of raw truffles and mushrooms, a bunch garnished with aromatics, some peppercorns, two glassfuls of dry champagne. Cover the stewpan, start the liquid to ebullition, and reduce it one half. — Meanwhile, reduce one third their volume six or seven gills of brown-sauce, gradually introducing into it three gills of clear, concentrated, and succulent poultry-stock ; the sauce being quite thickened, finish it with the wine-infusion, freed of its fat. 188. How to prepare Duxelles-sauce. — Reduce one third its volume six or seven gills of brown-sauce with two gills of concentrated veal- gravy: at the last moment, gradually introduce into the sauce a glassful ot dry white wine ; when thickened to the degree requisite, pass it through a tammy, work it on the fire for a few seconds, adding a few tablespoon- fuls of cooked fine-herbs, and two spoonfuls of cooked, and chopped pickled-tongue. 189. How to prepare sauce at the minute. - Put into- a stewpan a tablespoonful of shalhts and a little butter, let them fry without taking