126 THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. round, on one surface only, and with the aid of the point of a little knife; fry them on both sides with butter; when they are drained, open and empty them. — On the other hand, blanch a few dozen oysters, trim them, divide them in middling-sized dice. Let reduce a little white-sauce of good consistence, finished with a little anchovy-butter, or anchovy- extract, and a pinch of cayenne-pepper. When the sauce is at the degree requisite, mix in it the oysters, which remove immediately: the prepara- tion must remain consistent. With this preparation, fill the hollow of the crusts, sprinkle over a little grated parmesan, baste it with a little melted butter; glaze it with the red-hot shovel, and serve these crusts. 306. Patties of veal-sweetbreads, with gravy. Cut into large dice, two or three veal-sweetbreads, or lamb-sweet- breads ; put them into a stewpan with half their volume of raw ham, equally cut in dice; add some butter, fry them on a slow fire, turning them; four or five minutes after, add two or three cut truffles. Season them, pour over four tablespoonfuls of white wine; let the liquid reduce on a brisk fire, take the stewpan off the fire. With some short-paste line ten tartlet-moulds, of high shape and channeled; mask the paste with a layer of quenelle force-meat [see art. 116); fill then the hollow with the sweetbread ‘salpicon’; cover this ‘salpicon with a layer of the same force-meat, then with a round flat of short-paste ; make a little aperture in the centre of each cover; egg the paste on the top, bake the patties in a slack oven ; when taken out of the oven, turn them out, then by the central aperture infilter into each of the patties some spoonfuls of brown-sauce; cover the aperture with a little cover of puff-paste, baked separately. Dish the patties in a pyramid. 307. Small oyster-patties. With fine short-paste spread eight or ten channeled tartlet-moulds. Fill them with raw fish quenelle force-meat, range the moulds on a baking- sheet, push them into a slack oven; when the paste is well done, take it out. Then cut the force-meat to a level with the paste, and slightly hol- low the little patties.