THE HOUSEHOLD COOKERY-BOOK. 342 742. Hare-fillets with ‘quenelles’. Trim the two fillets of a hare, removing the epidermis, cut them slantwise across, dividing each of them into five pieces ; moisten them, slightly beat them, trim them to the shape of poultry-fillets, season them with salt and pepper. — Pour into a flat stewpan some melted butter, range the fillets in this stewpan, placing them side by side. AN ith the bones and remains of the hare, prepare a little game-gravy, and with it, a little succulent sauce, thickened but a little. With the trimmings of the fillets prepare a little force-meat (see art. 123), and with this, form small ‘quenelles’ with the aid of a teaspoon; let them poach in salted water. A few minutes previous to serving, fry the fillets on a brisk fire, turning them: they must have set without being dry, and remain juicy in the interior; drain, and moisten them with four spoonfuls of the sauce, previously prepared, and dish them; pour over them the remainder of the sauce. — The fillets thus prepared may be served with a garnish of truffles, olives, mushrooms, or even chestnut-puree. 743. Stewed hare ‘a la daube’. When it is clear, that a hare is tough, the only means to make con- venient use thereof is, to prepare it in ‘daube’; in this condition, it furnishes an excellent dish, especially if it is large and fleshy. Cut into large pieces the shoulders, back, legs, neck, and head, of the hare; keep by, for after-use, the blood, liver, kidneys, and lungs; lard the meat with raw fillets of ham, and season them; add to this a bunch of aromatics, and a piece of dry orange-peel; moisten them with half a bottle of white wine, let them macerate in this seasoning for full twenty-four hours. Choose an earthen stock-pot, that has been used already ; mask the bottom and sides with strips of fresh bacon; place on the bottom a few small onions, and two or three cloves of garlic, then the head, bnskel, the neck and shoulder-pieces, of the hare; add to them a boned and blanched calf’s-foot, and a piece of raw ham: the legs, as well as the back, of the hare must be put on the top. Pour the marinade on the