86 the household cookery-book. Cut square a piece of brisket or rump of beef; in the former case, the meat must be boned, and tied up with thread. Put this meat into an earthen pot with a bone of veal, and those of the beef, four or ve quai s of water, and a little salt; skim the liquid, remove it back to the side the tire. Two hours after, plunge the fowl into the pot, as we as carrots, one turnip, a large onion studded with cloves, and larily one leek tied together with a lettuce, and a pinch of chervil; le the q boil gently, until meat and fowl be done ; remove the towl, .1 done bctoie the beef; pass the broth through a napkin, pour two quarts into a stew- pan, without skimming its fat; add to it three quarters of a pound rice, and a pinch of saffron, remove it to a moderate fire so that the may boil gently, adding some broth, if it become too thick- ™he rice is done, the broth, although consistent, yet must be more liquid than , -risof • in short, the broth must be visible. At serving-time, pom soup into the tureen; dish the beef, surrounded with part of the vege- table. from the pot; serve the fowl separately, masked with a little curry- sauce. s ‘>15 Beet' jelly-broth, with vermicelli. — Take a pound of lean beef divide it in small square pieces, chop it; put it into a stewpan, an< mix’in one whole egg, dilute it with two quarts of good cold broth, w |ts fat skimmed off, and decanted; add to it a little minced carrot, a piece of leek another of celery-root; stir the liquid from time to time , at first bubbling, remove it back to the side of the fire ; fifteen or twenty minutes after, it must be clear and relishing; pass it then tluoug i a w napkin, disposed in a filter-bag (see drawing 69). Slam the fat oft e iellv broth which pour into a stewpan, let boil, and add to i iom n to fiv^ounces of blanched vermicelli. Five minutes after, pour out the jelly-broth into the tureen. 216 Poultry jelly-broth, with cream. - Pour into a stewpan two four legs of chicken m. tablespoonfuls of cold water; the meat with one whole egg, a , x* 1 *l mul the mix the preparation into the broth, add to it a pinch of chervil, and the