PUREE-SOUPS. 109 the soup, which pass through a sieve, or tammy, mix into it some table- spoonfuls of madeira, and keep it at the side of the fire. Transversally cut in scollops the meat of the back, and fillets of the hare, add these scollops to the soup, as well as a pinch of cayenne-pepper, and two dozen small quenelles, prepared with the leg of the hare, kept for that purpose. Again skim the fat off the soup, which pour into the tureen. 268. Puree a la reine. — With a knuckle of veal, a fowl, some paws, pinions, or gizzards, of poultry; one carrot, an onion studded with two cloves, one leek, tied together with a bit of celery, and a little chervil; prepare a white broth. — With four ounces of butter and the same of flour, prepare a little Wx’, without allowing it to take color; dilute it then with the broth freed of its fat, but taking care to do this gradually; let it boil, stirring the liquid ; it must be rather thickened; at the first bubbling remove it back to the side of the fire, so as only to boil it partially. — On the other hand, take out all the meat of the fowl, taking away the skin and bones, put it into a mortar, and pound it; add a piece of butter, four yolks of eggs, a little nutmeg, and two spoonfuls of raw cream; pass this pre- paration through a fine sieve, or else through a tammy. Skim the fat off the soup, gradually mix a little part of it in the preparation, in order to dilute it; then pour the preparation into the soup, thus to thicken it, yet without allowing it to boil; add a pinch of sugar; pass it into a small soup stock-pot, and keep it in the ‘bain-marie’ (*ee drawing 76), till the moment of pouring it into the tureen. — It must not be lost sight of, that any soup, once thickened with eggs, may on no account be exposed to boil again afterwards. ^69. Poultry-puree soup, with cream. — Prepare four quarts of poultry-stock for thickened soup, remove the stewpan to the side of the fire, and plunge into the liquid two or three little chickens. As soon as