ELEMENTARY METHODS. - HOT SAUCES. 71 bunch composed of parsley, taragon, and thyme; some peppercorns, a pimento ; moisten with half a glassful of good vinegar, let the liquid reduce to half, on a brisk tire; add then a glassful of good gravy, let it boil, thicken it with a little cooked ‘roux’, or some well diluted flour; remove the sauce back to the side of the lire, let it clarify; a quarter of an hour after, skim off its fat, pass it through a sieve, let it reduce; finish it then, introducing into it a pinch of cayenne-pepper, and a spoonful of mustard, diluted with a little vinegar. 176. How to prepare ‘Genoese’- sauce. — Fry with butter a minced onion, a shalot, and a piece ot celery-root; add a few peppercorns, and an unplucked clove of garlic; moisten with two glassfuls of ‘court- bouillon’, and half a bottle of red wine. Let the liquid boil, remove it back to the corner of the stove ; add to it a garnished bunch ; twelve minutes after, thicken the liquid with a little cooked ‘roux’; boil the - sauce at the side of the fire for twenty-five minutes ; then skim off its fat, pass it through a sieve into a flat stewpan, in order to reduce it, while turning it, and mixing into it a tew spoonfuls ol madeira; when it is nearly at the degree requisite, add to it four spoonfuls of truffles cut in * small dice; immediately take the sauce off the fire, finish it, introducing 1 mto a piece of anchovy-butter ; pour it out into the saucepan. — Fish > sauces, even brown, are generally finished with a piece of good butter. 177. How to prepare poivrade-sauce. — Mince one onion, and two or three shalots ; put them into a stewpan with butter, let them fry to a nice yellow color, stirring them. Moisten them with a gill of good vinegar, let them three-parts reduce on a brisk fire. Add then, a pint of .gravy, a bay-leaf, a bunch of parsley, peppercorns, and cloves; let the liquid boil, thicken it with a piece of cooked ‘roux’ (see art. 135), or simply with some diluted flour; now remove the sauce, in order to clarify it; twenty minutes after, skim off its fat, pass it through a sieve, let it reduce to the degree requisite, finish it with a pinch of fine-pepper. 178. How to prepare ‘Bordeaux’-sauce. — Pour into a flat stewpan, three or four gills of brown-sauce; start the sauce to ebullition, let it