PELVIC VISCERA IN THE FEMALE. 466 The vesical plexus of veins is not so large, and there are no vasa deferentia or prostate gland. The short urethra has a constrictor muscle, as in the male, and is supported in a similar manner by the pelvic fascia. Venous Though the veins round the neck of the bladder Plexus ABOUT are comparatively small in the female, attention THE Vagina. should be directed to the plexus of large veins which surround the vagina. They communicate freely with the veins about the rectum, and empty themselves into the internal iliac. Their congestion in pregnancy sufficiently accounts for the dark colour of the vagina and the external organs, and the frequent occurrence of haemorrhoidal tumours.* These veins must be re- moved, with the connective tissue in which they are embedded, before a clear view of the parts can be obtained. The urethra has already been described (p. 460). But, in the side view of the parts, we have the opportunity of observing how closely the bladder and urethra are connected to the upper wall of the vagina; and we can understand how, in cases of protracted delivery, it sometimes happens that the contiguous coats of the bladder and the vagina give way, and that a fistulous communication remains between them, through which urine constantly dribbles. It is necessary to slit open the whole of the vagina along the side, to obtain a clear idea of the manner in which it embraces the lower end of the uterus, and of the extent to which the neck of the uterus projects into it. The length of the vagina, in the unimpregnated adult, is, on an average, about 4^ inches. It may be more, or less; the dif- ference in each case depending upon the depth of the pelvis, the stature and age of the individual. Owing to the curved direction of the vagina, the anterior wall is about an inch shorter than the posterior. The vagina, however, is never so long that we cannot, * During pregnancy, varicose tumours may form even in the vagina. In the Berlin ' Med. Zeitung,' 1840, No. 11, a case is related of a woman who, at the sixth month, bled to death from the bursting of a large vein in the vagina. Other cases of the kind are related by Siebold.