DISSECTION OP THE BEAIN. 604 initial letters of which make the memorial word ' budjfi.'' By cutting through the substance of the hemisphere, the windings of this horn can be followed; in it are the hippocampus major^ a large rounded white eminence which follows the curve of the cornu; the pes hippocampi, the expanded paw-like extremity of the former; the posterior crus of the fornix, the choroid plexus, and the back of the optic thalamus. Appbaeance If a, vertical transverse section were made across ON Perpexv- the middle of the brain, the lateral ventricles DicuLAR Section, ^q^j^j appear as represented in fig. 149. Together with the third or middle ventricle, their shape slightly resembles the letter T. Such a section shows well the radiating fibres of the corpus callosum, the fornix, and the velum interpositum beneath it; also the beginning of the transverse fissure at the base of the brain, between the crus cerebri and the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. The contents of the lateral ventricles should now be examined more in detail; also the thin septum {septum lueidum) by which the two lateral ventricles are separated. Septum Luci- This is a thin and almost translucent partition which descends vertically in the middle line from the under surface of the corpus callosum, and separates the anterior part of the lateral ventricles from each other. It is attached above to the corpus callosum, below to the reflected part of the corpus callosum and fornix (fig. 148). It is not of equal depth throughout. Its broadest part is in front and corresponds with the knee of the corpus callosum. It becomes narrower behind, tapering to a thin point, where the corpus callosum and the fornix become continuous. The septum consists of two layers, which enclose a space called the fifth ventricle or the ventncle of the septum (fig. 151). Each layer consists of white substance inside, and of grey outside ; the ventricle between them is closed in the adult, and lined with a delicate serous membrane ; but in foetal life it communicates with the third ventricle between the pillars of the fornix.''^ * The development of the septum lueidum commences about the fifth month of