DISSECTION OP THE TESTIS. 667 Proper Co- The coverings of the testicle are—1. A serous vERiNos oT THE membrane, called the tunica vaginalis, to, facili- Testiclb. -j^a^^e movements; 2. A strong fibrous mem- brane, called the tunica alhuginea, to support the glandular structure within; 3. A delicate stratum of minute blood-vessels, which some anatomists have described as a distinct coat, under the name of tunica vasculosa. Tunica The tunica vaginalis is a closed serous sac, one Vaginalis. part of which (tunica vaginalis propria) adheres closely to the testis; the other (tunica vaginalis reflexa) is re- flected loosely around it. On opening the sac, it will be seen that the visceral layer completely covers the testicle, except behind, where the vessels and duct are situated (iig. 170); and that it covers the outer part of the epididymis in front and behind, form- ing here a pouch called the digital fossa. The parietal layer extends upwards for a variable distance upon the cord. The interior of the sac is smooth and polished, like all other serous membranes, and lubricated by a little fluid. An excess of this fluid gives rise to the disease termed ' hydrocele.' The tunica vaginalis was originally derived from the perito- neum. In some subjects it still communicates with that cavity by a narrow canal, and is therefore liable to become the sac of a hernia (see diagram, p. 370). Such herniae are called congenital —a bad term, since they do not necessarily take place at birth, but may occur at any period of life, even in very old age.* Some- times the communication continues through a very contracted canal, open to the passage of fluid .alone; or the communication may be only partially obliterated, and then one or more isolated serous sacs are left along the cord. Such an one, when distended with fluid, gives rise to hydrocele of the cord. Tunica This tunic is a dense, inelastic membrane, com- Albuginea. posed of fibrous tissue, interlacing in every direc- tion ; analogous to the sclerotic coat of the eye. It completely * Ijt would be a better term to call this lesion, a hernia in the tunica vaginalis, denoting thereby its anatomical position; at the same time implying a congenital arrest iu derelopment, and without limiting its occurrence to any ago of life.