DISSECTION OP THE BRAIN. 582 glossal and pneiimogastric nei^ves, and divides into two branches, which are distributed to the inferior surface of the cerebellum. The basilar artery, formed by the junction of the two vertebral, in its course along the pons gives off on each side— a. Transverse branches which pass outwards on the pons: one, the auditory, enters the meatus auditorius internus with the auditory nerve, to be distributed to the internal ear. h. The anterior cerebellar, which supplies the front part of the lower surface of the cerebellum and anastomoses with the other cerebellar arteries. c. The superior cerebellar, which is distributed to the upper surface of the cerebellum; the valve of Yieussens and part of the velum inter- positum. d. The two posterior cerebral, the terminal branches into which the basilar artery divides, run outwards and backwards, in front of the third nerve. They wind round the crura cerebri and divide into numerous branches which supply the under surface of the posterior cerebral lobes, and ultimately inosculate with the other cerebral arteries. Each gives off a small posterior choroid artery, distributed to the velum inter- positum, and choroid plexus. Circle OF This important arterial inosculation (fig. 139) is Wiixis. formed, laterally, by the two anterior cerebral, the two internal carotid, and the two posterior communicating arteries ; in front, it is completed by the anterior communicating artery; behind, by the two posterior cerebral. The tortuosity of the large arteries before they enter the brain serves to mitigate the force of the heart's action ; and the circle of Willis provides a free supply of blood from other vessels, in case any accidental cir- cumstance should stop the flow of blood through any of the more direct channels.* * In many of the long-necked herbivorous quadrupeds a provision has been made ia the disposition of the internal carotid arteries, for the purpose of equalising the force of the blood supplied to the brain. The arteries, as they enter the skull, divide into several branches, which again unite and form a remarkable network of arteries, called by Galen, who first described it, the 'rete mirabile.' The object of this evidently is to moderate the rapidity with which the blood would otherwise enter the cranium in the different positions of the head, and thus preserve the brain from those sudden influxions to which it would under other circumstances be continually exposed.