697 DISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. the nerve; the outer fibres pass from one optic tract to the optic nerve of the same side; the inner fibres pass from one optic tract round to the optic tract of the opposite side; while in front of the commissure are fibres which pass from one optic nerve to its fellow (p. 600).* Third Paik or apparent origin of the third nerve is from MoTOREs Ocu- the inner side of the crus cerebri, immediately in i-oRv^. front of the pons. Some of its roots, however, pass through the locus niger and the tegmentum of the crus, to reach a grey nucleus beneath the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum and below the corpora quadrigemina (p. 595). It passes through the sphenoidal fissure and supplies all the muscles of the orbit, except the superior oblique and the rectus externus. Fourth Pair The fourth nerve arises from the upper surface OR Trochleab of the valve of Vieussens (p. 612). Here it Nebvks. divides into three sets of fibres: one, ascending, passes to the roof of the aqueduct of Sylvius ; another, decussating, passes over to the opposite side to join the ascending fibres ; and a third, or descending, which rises from the floor of the fourth ventricle close to the locus cseruleus. It runs obliquely outwards, winds round the crus cerebri, enters the orbit through the sphe- noidal fisSure, and sujjplies the superior oblique. Fifth Pair or The fifth nerve consists of two roots, both of Trigemiival which arise apparently from the outer side of the Nerve. ipous Varolii (p. 584); but their real origin is deeper. The smaller and anterior of the two roots, consisting of motor fibres only, may be traced to the outer side of the fom-th ventricle, and to a grey nucleus at the lower part of the medulla ; the posterior and larger root consisting of purely sensory fibres, may be traced to a mass of nerve-cells in connection with the grey tubercle of Eolando, and also to the middle of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The nerve proceeds forwards over the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; here is developed, upon ♦ This decussation was iogeniously supposed by Dr. WoUaston ('Philos. Trans, of the Royal Society,' 1824) to account for single vision, since the right halves and the left halves of the eyes would derive their nerve-fibres from the same optic nerve.