STEUOTUEE OP THE KIDNEY. 483 diameter, visible to the naked eye, and look like white spots scat- tered through the dark pulp. They are attached to the sides of the arteries, and are said to be lymphoid expansions of the con- nective tissue coat or outside coat of the arteries. These curious spherical bodies are filled with lymph-corpuscles. They appear not to have definite boundaries, but to communicate freely with the reticular spaces of the pulp. The lymphatics of the spleen run between the layers of the gastro-splenic omentum to the lymphatic glands. The function of the spleen is not yet accurately ascertained. It appears to be, essentially, a great blood-gland ; and that it consists of chambers filled with gland-cells of various size, between which ramify minute arteries and veins. It is pre- sumed that the gland elaborates the albuminous materials of food, and stores them up for a time before they pass into the blood. It is considered to be a nursery for the production of the white corpuscles "of the blood; and a grave-yard too, where many of the worn-out red ones undergo disintegration. The kidneys, two in number, are situated in the lumbar region, embedded in fat. Their colour is reddish-brown. Each is about 4 inches in length, and 2^ inches in breadth, and weighs about 4|- ounces in the male, rather less in the female. The left, usually situated higher than the right, is generally longer and somewhat heavier. The anterior surface of each is smooth and convex; the posterior rather flattened. The upper end of the kidney is larger and thicker than the lower; the outer border is rounded; the inner presents a deep notch—the hihis—for the entrance and exit of the renal vessels and duct. These have the following relations to one another : in front lies the renal vein ; behind is the ureter ; between is the renal artery. The kidney is surrounded by a thin fibrous capsule, to which it is loosely connected by areolar tissue and minute vessels. The ceedingly fresh, for they soon soften and melt in the pulp. It is better, therefore, to examine them in the spleen of a sheep or bullock, in which animals they are about of an inch in diameter.