328 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OP THE POREAEM. A little below the middle of the forearm, the extensors of the wrist and fingers diverge from each other, leaving an interval, in which are seen the three extensors of the thumb—namely, the ex- tensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, the extensor primi internodii pollicis, and the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. The two former cross the radial extensors of the wrist, and pass over the lower third of the radius. Between the second and third extensors of the thumb, we ob- serve a part of the lower end of the radius, which is not covered either by muscle or tendon. This subcutaneous portion of the bone is immediately above the prominent tuberclp in the middle of its lower extremity, and, since it can be easily felt through the skin, it presents a convenient place for examination in doubtful cases of fracture. Extensor ^his muscle is partly covered by the supinator Carpi Radialis radii longus. It arises from the lower third of LoNaioR. lY^Q ridge leading to the external condyle of the humerus, and from the intermuscular septum. It descends along the outer side of the forearm, and terminates about the middle, in a flat tendon, which passes beneath the extensor ossis metacarpi and primi internodii pollicis, traverses a groove on the outer and back 'part of the .radius, lined by a synovial membrane, and is inserted into the radial side of the carpal end of the metacarpal bone of the index finger. Previous to its insertion, the tendon is crossed by the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. It is supplied by a branch from the musculo-spiral nerve. Extensor This muscle arises from the external condyle Carpi Radialis by the tendon common to it and the other ex- Bretior. tensors, from the inter-muscular septa, and from the external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint. The muscular •-.fibres, terminate near the middle of the forearm, upon the under •surface ^of a flat tendon, which descends, covered by that of the extensor carpi radialis longior, beneath the three extensors of the thumb. The tendon traverses a groove on the back of the radius, on the same plane with that of the long radial extensor, but lined by a separate synovial membrane, and is inserted into the radial