28 ANTERIOR TRIANGLE, clavicle, or, vice versa, how matter formed in the neck may travel under the clavicle and point in the axilla. Near the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle the external jugular vein passes through both layers of the fascia, and terminates in the subclavian; but before its termination it is commonly joined by the supra-scapular, the posterior scapular, and other unnamed veins proceeding from the surrounding muscles; so that there is in this situation a confluence of veinSy which, when large or distended, are exceedingly embarrassing. Dxs-ECTio '^^^ fascia and the glands should be removed, and the following objects carefully dissected. Behind and nearly parallel with the clavicle is the supra-scapular (transversal!s humeri) artery, a branch of the thyroid axis. A little higher is the transversalis colli, or posterior scapular (com- monly a branch of the thyroid axis), which crosses the lower part of the neck towards the posterior superior angle of the scapula. Both these' arteries, the last 'particularly, are very irregular in respect to their origin. Search for the outer border of the scalenus anticusj which descends from the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae to the first rib: running down longitudinally upon it is seen the phrenic nerve. The subclavian vein lies upon the first rib in front of the insertion of the anterior scalene muscle. The subclavian artery, which appears a little higher than the vein beliind the outer border of the scalenus anticus, must be fairly exposed, care being taken to preserve the small branch which pro- ceeds from the brachial plexus to the subclavius muscle. The large nerves constituting the brachial plexus will be found emerging between the scalenus anticus and medius, higher than the subcla- vian artery, and on a plane posterior to that vessel. Dissection The anterior triangle must now be dissected. OF THK Anterior In doing SO, notice, before the deep cervical fascia TniANGLE. 1-emoved, the arching forwards of the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, which is connected to the lower jaw by the fascia, so that the common carotid artery is con- cealed from view before the parts are disturbed. Then examine the flat muscles in front of the neck, which pull down the larynx and