671 DISSECTION OF THE TESTIS. branch of the deep epigastric. It begins at the internal ring, traverses the inguinal canal, and extends to the testis, where its component parts pass to their respective destinations. The coverings of the cord have been described with the- anatomy of the parts of hernia (p. 369). The course of the spermatic arteries and veins has been described in the dissection of the abdomen (p. 4Q3). The artery is remarkably tortuous as it descends along the cord; it enters the back part of the testicle, and breaks up into a number of fine ramifications,, which spread out on the inner surface of the tunica albuginea. The spermatic veins leave the testis at its back part, and, as they ascend along the cord, become extremely tortuous, and form a plexus termed pampioiiform. It is usually stated that these veins are destitute of valves ; and this fact is adduced as one of the reasons for the occurrence of varicocele. It is, however, certain that the larger veins do contain valves. The lymphatics of the testis pass through the lumbar glands; hence these glands, and not the inguinal, become affected in malig- nant disease of the testis. The nerves of the testicle are derived from the sympathetic. They descend from the abdomen with the spermatic arteries, and come from the aortic plexus, with a few filaments from the hypo- gastric plexus, which surround the deferential artery (p. 442). This accounts for the ready sympathy of the stomach and intestine with the testicle, and for the constitutional effects of an injury to it. Descent or The testicle is originally developed in the lumbar THE Testis. region, immediately below the kidney, and is loosely attached to the back of the abdomen by a fold of peritoneum, termed the mesorchium, along which its vessels and nerves run up to it, as to any other abdominal viscus. From the lower end of the gland a fibrous cord, termed the gubernaculum testis * proceeds to the bottom of the scrotum. There is no evidence to * Mr. Curling considers the gubernaculum testis to be a muscular cord. See his Observations on the Structure of the Gubernaculum, and <5n the Descent of the Testis in the Fcetus: 'Medical Gazette,' April 10, 1841.