131 LEFT CAROTID ARTERY. Parallel with, and close to, the artery are the slender cardiac nerves.* With the anatomy of the parts before you, you can undex- stand that an aneurysm of the innominate artery might be distin- guished from an aneurysm of the aorta—1. By a pulsation in the neck between the sterno-mastoid muscles, i.e. in the fossa above the sternum; 2. By occasional dyspncea owing to pressure on the trachea; 3. By venous congestion in the left arm; 4. By the aneurysmal thrill being confined to the right arm.f Left Carotid This artery arises from the arch of the aorta Arteey. close to, and to the left of, the arteria innominata. It ascends obliquely behind the first bone of the sternum, and the- sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, to the neck. In the first part of its course it lies upon the trachea, but it soon passes to the left side of the trachea, and then lies for a short distance upon the oesophagus and thoracic duct. It is crossed by the left brachio- cephalic vein; on its left side are the left subclavian artery and pneumogastric nerve; on the right side is the arteria innomi- nata. In the rest of its course it resembles the right carotid (p. 32). LeftSubcla- This is the third branch of the arch. It viAN Artery. ascends nearly vertically out of the chest to the inner border of the first rib, and then curves outwards behind the scalenus anticus. In the first part of its course it is deeply seated, and is covered on its left side by the pleura. Close to its right side are the left carotid, the trachea and oesophagus ; between the * In some eases the innominate artery ascends for a short distance above the clavicle before it divides, lying close to the right of the trachea. We have already alluded to the fact that it occasionally gives off a middle thyroid artery (p. 37), which ascends in front of the trachea to the thyroid body, and is therefore directly in the way in tracheotomy. f If the innominate artery be ligatured, the circulation would be maintained by the following collateral branches:—1. Between the branches of the two external carotids, which anastomose across the middle line. 2. Between the aortic intercostal and the superior intercostal. 3. Between the aortic intercostals and the internal mammary, long thoKicic, alar thoracic, and subscapular arteries. 4. Between the internal mammary and deep epigastric. 6. Between the inferior thyroid arteries. 6. Between the two vertebrals. 7- Between tlie two internal carotid arteries. K 2