BRANCHES OP THE ABDOMINAL AOETA. 402 The branches of the aorta still to be examined arise from it in pairs—namely, the phrenic, capsular, renal, spermatic, and lumbar. (See diagram p. 384. j Phrenic These arteries supply the under surface of the Aktekies. -'diaphragm, and arise separately, or by a common trunk, from the aorta after its passage under the pillars (p. 396). The mg?tt johrenic passes outwards, behind the vena cava, the left behirid the oesophagus; each ascends, lying on its corresponding crus, as far as the central tendon, where each divides into two branches : one- which passes transversely across the tendon to the side of- the ditiphrag>m; the other, which seems to be the continuation ©f the artery, runs forwards' to the anterior part of the muscle. Their first branches are to the supra-renal capsules ; then the right gives off a small branch to the vena cava, the left, one to the oesophagus. Tbey inosculate -with each other, with the internal mammary, and the intercostal arteries. The right phrenic vein terminates in the inferior -vena cava; the left, in the renal vein, if not in the vena cava. Supra-renal The supra-venal OT capsular arteries are two Arteries. very small branches, given off from the aorta opposite to the superior mesenteric artery; each runs upon the crus of the diaphragm, the right ■ behind the inferior cava, and is distributed to the supra-renal body, inosculating with branches from the phrenic and renal arteries. The right capsular vein ter- minates in the inferior vena cava, the left in the left renal. Eenal Arte- 'iThe renal arteries arise from the aorta at right RiEs AND Veins. angles,, and run transversely to the kidneys. Both are covered by their corresponding veins. The right is longer and rather lower than the left, and passes beneath the vena cava. Each, after sending a small branch to the supra-renal body, enters its kidney, not as a single trunk, but by several branches, corre- sponding to the original lobes of the organ. The renal veins lie in front of the arteries, and join the vena cava at right angles. The left is longer than the right, and crosses over the aorta; it also receives the spermatic, capsular, and sometimes the phrenic veins of its own side.