DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. 325 and internal heads of the triceps, and are protected by an aponeu- rotic arch, thrown over them by the external head of the triceps. After supplying the muscles, the artery continues its course along the outer side of the arm between the brachialis anticus and supinator radii longus, and inosculates with the radial recurrent. It gives off a branch, which runs down between the triceps and the bone, and inosculates, at the back of the elbow, with the anastomotica magna and posterior interosseous recurrent. The musculo-spiral nerve which accompanies the artery sends branches to supply the three portions of the triceps, the supinator radii longus, and extensoi- carpi radialis longior.* It then divides into the posterior inter- osseous and radial nerves. The small nerve must be made out which runs down the substance of the triceps, accompanied by a branch from the superior profunda artery, to supply the anconeus. The cutaneous branches of the musculo-spiral nerve have been already dissected (p. 272). DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE F0EEARM. Subcutaneous Eemove the skin from the back of the forearm, BuRSiE. hand, and fingers, and make out the subcutaneous bursa over the olecranon. It is of considerable size, and, if dis- tended, would appear nearly as large as a walnut. Another bursa is sometimes found a little lower down upon the ulna. A sub- cutaneous bursa is generally placed over the internal condyle, another over the external. A bursa is also situated over the styloid process of the ulna ; this sometimes communicates with the sheath of the extensor carpi ulnaris. Small bursce are some- times developed in the cellular tissue over each of the knuckles. The cutaneous veins, from the back of the hand and forearm, join the venous plexus at the bend of the elbow (see p. 273). Cutaneous "^^^ cutaneous nerves of the back of the fore- Nerves of the arm, are derived from the external cutaneous Back of the branches of the musculo-spiral, from branches of IT jjoREAKM. ^jjg internal cutaneous, and of the external cuta- * The brachialis anticus usually receives a branch from the musc«lo-;piral nerve.