184 SOFT PALATE. the second (superior maxillary) division of the fifth and from the glosso-pharyngeal. jj^^j^ The uvula projects from the middle of the soft palate, and gives the free edge of it the appearance of a double arch. It contains a number of muciparous glands, and a small muscle, the azygos uvulce. Its length varies according to the state of its muscle. It occasionally becomes permanently elongated, and causes considerable irritation, a tickle in the throat, and harassing cough. When you have to remove a portion of it, cut oif only the redundant mucous membrane. Arches of the The soft palate is connected with the tongue pALATSi. and pharynx by two folds of mucous membrane on each side, enclosing muscular fibres. These are the anterior and ^posterior half-arches or 'pillars of the palate. The anterior arch describes a curve from the base of the uvula to the side of the tongue. It is well seen when the tongue is put out. The poste- rior arch, commencing at the side of the uvula, curves along the free margin of the palate, and terminates on the side of the pharynx. The posterior arches, when the tongue is depressed, can be seen through the span of the anterior. The pillars of each side diverge from their origin, and in the triangular space thus formed is situated the tonsil. The chief use of the arches of the palate is to assist in deglutition. The anterior, enclosing the palato-glossi muscles, contract so as to prevent the food from coming back into the mouth: the posterior, enclosing the palato-pharyngei, contract like side curtains, and co-operate in preventing the food from passing into the nose. In vomiting, food does sometimes escape through the nostrils, but one cannot wonder at this, considering the violence with which it is driven into the pharynx. Muscles OF THE The muscles of the soft palate lie immediately Soft Palate. beneath the mucous membrane. There are five pairs—namely, the levatores palati, the circumflexi or tensores palati, the palato-glossi, the palato-jDharyngei, and the azygos uvulse. This last pair is sometimes described as a single muscle.