CARPAL JOINTS. 348 a depression at the root of the styloid process of the ulna. It is thin at the base and centre, thicker at the apex and sides. Its upper surface is in contact with the ulna, and covered by the synovial membrane of the radio-ulnar joint; its lower siu:face, forming- a part of the wrist-joint, corresponds to the cuneiform bone. Its borders are connected with the anterior and posterior ligaments of the wrist. In some instances there is an aperture in the centre. When, from accident or disease, this fibro-cartilage gets de- tached from the radius, the consequence is an abnormal projection of the lower end of the ulna. The synovial membrane of this joint is distinct from that of the wrist, except in the case of a perforation through the fibro- cartilage. On account of its great looseness, necessary for the free rotation of the radius, it is called memhrana sacciformis. The bones of the carpus are arranged in two Carpal Joints. , , i i i j_ ■, it rows, an upper and a lower, adapted to each other, so as to form between them a joint, connected by anterior, posterior, internal, and external lateral ligaments. The bones constituting each row are united by ligaments j)laced on their palmar and dorsal surfaces, and by others placed between the bones, and hence called interosseous. Their con- tiguous surfaces (those of the pisiform and cuneiform excepted) are covered by the reflections of one synovial membrane. The first row is united by dorsal and palmar transverse liga- ments proceeding from the scaphoid to the semilunar bone, and from the semilunar to the cvmeiform ; also by interosseous liga- ments, proceeding from the semilunar to the bones on either side of it (fig. 67). The pisiform hone is articulated to the palmar surface of the cuneiform bone, to which it is united by a fibrous capsule. In- feriorly it is attached by two strong ligaments, the one to the unciform bone, the other to the carpal end of the fifth metacarpal bone. This articulation has a distinct synovial membrane. The second row of carpal bones is connected in the same way ae the upper. The dorsal and palmar ligaments pass transversely