INTEROSSEOUS MUSCLES. 337 is an abductor, the other an adductor, of a finger. Thus there are s&ven in all; four of which, situated on the back of the hand, are called dorsal; the remainder, seen, only in the palm, are called palmar.* They are all supplied by the ulnar nerve. Dorsal Each dorsal interosseous muscle arises from the Intkbossei. opposite sides of two contiguous metacarpal- bones (fig. 62). From this double origin the fibres converge to a ten- don, which passes between the metacarpal joints of the finger, and is inserted into the side of the base of the first phalanx, and by a broad expansion into the extensor tendon on the back of the same finger. T\\e first dorsal interosseous muscle (abductor indids) is larger than the others, and occupies the interval between the thumb and fore-finger. It arises from the proximal half of the ulnar side of the first metacarpal bone, and from the entire length of the radial side of the second : between the two origins, the radial artery passes into the palm. Its fibres converge on either side to a tendon, which is inserted into the radial side of the first phalanx of the index finger and its extensor tendon. The second dorsal interosseous muscle occupies the second metacarpal space. It is inserted into the radial side of the first phalanx of the middle finger and its extensor tendon. The third and fourth, occupying the corresponding metacarpal spaces, are inserted, the one into the ulnar side of the middle, the other into the ulnar side of the ring finger. If a line be drawn longitudinally through the middle finger, as represented by the dotted line in fig. 62, we find that all the dorsal interosseous muscles are abductors from that line; conse- quently, they separate the fingers from each other. Palmab Intee- It requires a careful examination to distinguish OSSEOUS. this set of muscles, because the dorsal muscles protrude with them into the palm. They are smaller than the dorsal, and each arises from the lateral surface of only one meta- carpal bone—that, namely, connected with the finger into which * If we consider the adductor pollicis as a palmar interosseous muscle, there would be four palmar and four dorsal—all supplied by the ulnar nerve.