499 CUTANEOUS NERVES AND VEINS. This is the chief subcutaneous vein of the lower Saphena Vein. ^.^^^ ^^^^^^ arising on the inner side of the foot, unite into a single trunk, which ascends in front of the inner ankle, along the inner side of the leg, behind the knee, along the inner and front part of the thigh, where it passes through an open- ing—the saphenous opening— in the fascia lata, to join the femoral vein, immediately below the crural arch (fig. 114). In this long- course it receives several tributary veins, some of which are often large ; and, just before its termination, it is joined by the super- ficial veins which accompa,ny the arteries of the groin already alluded to (p. 497). Like all subcutaneous veins, it is provided at intervals with valves, chiefly where joined by other veins, to sup- port the column of the blood. Cutaneous The distribution of the cutaneous nerves of the Nerves. thigh varies considerably, but they are always found more abundantly on the ianer than on the outer aspect of the thigh. The nerves are divided into external, middle, and internal. All directly or indirectly proceed from the lumbar plexus, and, perforating the fascia, divide in the subcutaneous tissue. a. The external cutaneous nerve is, a branch of the second lumbar nerve. It enters the thigh beneath Poupart's ligament close to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. Here it divides into two branches, an anterior and a posterior. The anterior branch comes through the fascia lata about four inches below Poupart's ligament and can be traced down the outer side of the thigh as far as the knee, giving off numerous branches. The posterior branch, after coming through the fascia, divides i-nto filaments, which are distributed to the skin over the nates and the posterior part of the thigh. h. The middle cutaneous nerves, one or two in number,, are given ofi" by the anterior crural.. They pass through the sartorius about four inches below Poupart's ligament, perforate the fascia lata, and descend along the front and inner part of the thigh as far as the knee, distributing branches on either side ; some of which communicate with the long saphenous nerve. In its course K K 2