POSITION OP ABDOMINAL VISCERA. 377 Length of the '^'^^ small intestine, including the duodenum, Alimentary varies from sixteen to twenty-four feet in length. Canal. and the large intestine from five feet to five feet and a half; "these measurements are subject to some variation, according to the height of the individual. In round numbers, the small and large intestines are from five to six times the length of the body. Situation of The Uver occupies the whole of the right hypo- THE LmsE. chondrium, and extends over the epigastric region more or less into the left. Unless the individual be very corpu- lent, we can ascertain during life the extent to which the liver pro- jects below the costal cartilages, and the general dimensions of the organ may be tolerably well told by percussion. Its anterior border is sharp and thin; its posterior is broad and connected to the diaphragm by peritoneal ligaments. Its upper surface ascends as high as the fifth intercostal space; its under surface overlies part of the stomach, of the duodenum, of the right kidney, of the transverse colon, and of the supra-renal capsule; its upper surface is convex, and accurately adapted to the arch of the diaphragm. To this muscle the liver is connected by folds of peritoneum, called ligaments. One of these, nearly longitudinal in direction, and called the suspensory, or, from its shape, the falciform ligament, is situated a little to the right of the mesial line. The lower and free edge of it contains the impervious remains of the umbilical vein, called the round ligament. The suspensory ligament, traced backwards, leads to another broad fold extending horizontally from the diaphragm to the posterior border of the liver; this consti- tutes the lateral ligament, right or left, according as we trace it on one or the other side of the falciform ligament. The junction of the lateral and falciform ligaments is described by some authors as the coronary ligament. Situation of the The gall-bladder is the reservoir for the bile, G-ALt>BLADDER. Q^d 18 closcly coufiucd by the peritoneum in a slight depression on the under surface of the right lobe of the liver. Its lower end or fundus projects beneath the cartilage of the ninth rib. This is important practically. It sometimes happens that