515 EXTENSOR MUSCLES. the thigh inwards. Both these muscles are supplied by the same nerve—the superior gluteal. To form an adequate idea of the strength, extent, and connec- tions of the aponeurosis on the outer side of the thigh, it should be separated from the vastus externus muscle upon which it lies. There is no difficulty in doing so, for it is united to the muscle by an abundance of loose connective tissue.* With a little persever- ance the aponeurosis can be traced to the linea aspera, the head of the tibia, and the fibula, completely protecting the outer side of the knee-joint. ExTENsoE The powerful muscles occupying the front of the Muscles oe thigh, and situated between the tensor fasciae on QuADHicEPs ^ijg outer side and the adductors on the inner. Muscle. extensors of the leg. One of them—the rectus—arises from the pelvis ; the other—the triceps—arises from the shaft of the thigh bone by three portions, called, re- spectively, the crureus, the vastus internus and externus. All are supplied by the anterior crural nerve. To see the origins of the rectus femoris, dissect between the origin of the sartorius and the tensor fasciae ; in doing so, avoid injuring the branches of the external circumflex artery. Rectus This muscle arises from the pelvis by two strong Femoris. tendons, which soon unite at an acute angle : one —round—from the anterior inferior spine of the ilium, the other —flat—from the rough surface of the ilium, just above the aceta- bulum. The muscle descends along the front of the thigh, and is inserted into the common extensor tendon, which will be pre- sently examined. The structure of this muscle is remarkable. A. tendon runs down the centre, and the muscular fibres are inserted on either side of it, like the vane on the shaft of a feather. Its nerve comes from the anterior crural. „ This mass of muscle invests like a cloak the Triceps Ex~ tensor. greater part of the fi-ont and sides of the shaft of the femur; therefore the whole of it cannot be * When this tissue becomes the seat of suppuration, the pus is apt to extend all down the outside of the thigh, not being able to make its way to the surface by reason of the dense fascia. L L 2