SOLE OP THE FOOT. 558 divides into five portions; each of these subdivides into two slips, which embrace the corresponding flexor tendons, and are attached to the metatarsal bones and their connecting ligaments. Between the primary divisions of the fascia—that is, in a line between the toes—are seen the digital vessels and nerves. This arrangement is in all respects like that in the palm. In the interdigital folds of the skin, there are also ligamentous fibres, which run from one side of the foot to the other, and answer the same purpose as those in the hand (p. 298). The plantar fascia must be partially removed to examine the muscles. Towards the os calcis its removal is not accomplished without some difficulty, since the muscles arise from it. Superficial After the removal of the fascia 'three muscles Muscles. are exposed. All arise from the os calcis and the fascia, and proceed forwards to the toes.* The central one is the flexor brevis digitorum, the two lateral are the abductor pollicis, and the abductor minimi digiti. Abductor This muscle arises from the inner and back part Pollicis. of the OS calcis, from the plantar fascia, and from the internal annular ligament. Its origin arches over the plantar vessels and nerves in their passage to the sole. The fibres nm along the inner side of the sole, and terminate on a tendon which is inserted into the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of tlie great toe, through the medium of the internal sesamoid bone. Its nerve comes from the internal plantar. Abductor This muscle has a very strong origin fram the MmiMi Digiti. under surface of the os calcis, from its external tubercle, from the plantar fascia, and from the external inter- muscular septum. Some of its fibres terminate on a tendon which is inserted into the proximal end of the metatarsal bone of the little toe; but the greater part runs on to a tendon which is inseHed into the outer side of the first phalanx of the little toe. It is supplied by the external plantar nerve. * They are separated from each other by strong perpendicular partitions—inter- muscular septa—which pass in from the plantar fascia.