ANATOMY OF PARTS CONCERNED IN HERNIA. 372 part between these, or at the neck of the sac. Sometimes there is a double stricture, one at the external ring, the other at the internal. As stated, the stricture may be caused by the neck of the sac, independently of the parts outside it; for the peritoneum may become thickened and indurated, and sufficiently unyielding to strangulate the protruded intestine. . The strangulation in a con- genital hernia is nearly always caused by the neck of the sac itself. In dividing the stricture, the surgeon should, in all cases, adhere to the golden rule laid down by Sir Astley Cooper—namely, to divide it directly upwards. In this direction, there is the least likelihood of wounding the deep epigastric artery. Changes pro- Whoever has the opportunity of dissecting an DTJCEu BY AN Old old hemla, of some size, will observe that the AND Large obliquity of the inguinal canal is destroyed. The constant dragging of the protruded viscera upon the inner margin of the internal ring gradually approximates the internal ring to the external, so that at last the one gets quite behind the other, and there is a direct opening into the abdomen. But the position of the deep epigastric artery with regard to the sac remains unaltered. It is still on the inner side of the neck of the sac. • In hernise of long standing, all its coverings undergo a change. They become thickened and hypertrophied, and so altered from what they once were that they scarcely look like the same parts. Expose the contents of the abdomen, by an in- DlSSECTION. 11 cision from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes a little to the left side of the linea alba, so as to preserve a ligament, ligamentum teres, which passes from the umbilicus to the liver, and also a cord, the urachus, which ascends in the middle line from the bladder to the umbilicus; then make another incision transversely on a level with the umbilicus, and turn the flaps outwards. Behind the linea alba, the peritoneiun is raised UBACHtlS. , ■ c .1 into a fold by a fibrous cord, passmg from the