428 SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. IscHio-RECTAL This is tliG deep hollow, on each side, between ^ossA. the anus and the tuber ischii. When all the fat is removed from it, observe that it is lined on all sides by fascia. Introduce the finger into it to form a correct idea of its extent and boundaries. Externally it is bounded by the tuber ischii and the fascia covering the obturator internus muscle ; internally^ by the rectum, levator ani and coccygeus ; "posteriorly, by the gluteus maximus; anteriorly, by the transversus perinei. The fossa is crossed by the external hsemorrhoidal vessels and nerves. These deep spaces on each side of the rectum explain the great size which abscesses in this situation may attain. The matter can be felt only through the rectum. Nothing can be seen outside. Perhaps nothing more than a little hardness can be felt by the side of the anus. These abscesses should be opened early; else they form a large cavity, and may biust into the rectum, and result in a fistula. ANATOMY OF THE SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. To obtain a side view of the pelvic viscera, the left innominate bone should be removed thus :— Detach the peritoneum and the levator ani from the left side of the pelvis, cut through the external iliac vessels, the obturator vessels and nerve, and the nerves of the lumbar plexus ; then saw through the pubes about two inches external to the sym- physis, and cut through the sacro-iliac symphysis; now draw the legs apart, and saw through the base of the spine of the ischium ; after cutting through the pyriformis, the great sacro- ischiatic ligament and ischiatic nerves, the innominate bone can be easily detached. This' done, the rectum should be distended with tow, and the bladder blown up through the ureter. A staff should be passed through the urethra into the bladder, and a block placed under the sacrum. The reflection of the peritoneum as it passes from the front of the rectum to the lower part of the bladder (forming the recto- vesical pouch), and thence over the back of the bladder to the wall