350 CARPO-METACARPAL JOINTS. of the great characteristics of the human hand. The joint is sur- rounded by a fibrous capsule sufficiently loose to admit free motion, and stronger on the dorsal than on the palmar aspect. The security of the joint is increased by the muscles whicli surround it. It has a separate synovial membrane. Cabpo Meta "^^^ metacarpal bones of the fingers are con- CAHPAL Joints. nected to the second row of the carpal bones by ligaments upon their palmar and dorsal surfaces. The dorsal ligaments are the stronger. The metacarpal bone of the fore-finger has two : one from the trapezium, the other from the trapezoid bone. That of the middle finger has also two, pro- ceeding from the os magnum and the os trapezoides. That of the ring finger has also two, proceeding from the os magnum and the unciform bone. That of thg little finger has one only, from the unciform bone. The palmar ligaments are arranged nearly upon a similar plan. The metacarpal bone of the fore-finger has one from the trapezoid bone. That of the middle finger has three, proceeding from the trapezium, the os magnum, and the unciform bone. Those of the ring and little fingers have each one, from the unciform bone. Besides the preceding ligaments, there is another of consider- able strength, called the interosseous. It proceeds from the adjacent sides of the os magnum and the os unciforme, descends vertically, and is fixed into the radial side of the metacarpal bone of the ring finger (fig. 67). This ligament isolates the synovial membrane of the two inner metacarpal bones from the common synovial mem- brane of the carpus. Separate the metacarpal bones from the carpus, and observe the relative form of their contiguous surfaces. The metacarpal bones of the fore and middle fingers are adapted to the carpus in such an angular manner as to be almost immovable. The metacarpal bone of the ring finger, having a plane articular surface with the unciform bone, admits of more motion. Still greater motion is permitted between the unciform and the metacarpal bone of the little finger, the articular surfaces of each being slightly con- cave and convex in opposite directions. The greater freedom of