BRANCHES OP THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 67 The cranial branches of the vertebral artery are mentioned at length in the description of the arteries of the brain. The vertebral vein is formed by small branches from the muscles near the foramen magnum. It descends in front of the artery through the foramina in the transverse processes, and emerging tlirough the transverse process of the sixth, joins the brachic- cephalic vein. It receives the veins from the cervical portion of the spinal cord. In some subjects it communicates with the lateral sinus by a branch through the posterior condyloid foramen. The cervical nerves pass through the intervertebral foramina behind the vertebral artery, so that the artery runs behind its vein, and in front of the nerves. The thyroid axis arises from the subclavian near the inner edge of the scalenus anticus, and after a course of a quarter of an inch divides into three branches, which take different directions; namely, the inferior thyroid, the supra-scapular, and the posterior scapular. 1. The inferior thyroid artery ascends tortuously behind the sheath of the common carotid and the sympathetic nerve, to the deep suiface of the thp-oid body, in which it communicates freely with the superior thyroid and with its fellow. Besides small branches to the trachea, the oesophagus, and the larynx, it gives oS— (a) the ascendioig cervical artery which runs up close to the spine, between the scalenus anticus and the rectus capitis anticus major, and terminates in small blanches, some of which supply these muscles; others enter the intervertebral foramina, and supply the spinal cord and its membranes. 2. The sujyra-scapular artery (transvei'salis humeri) runs outwards over the scalenus anticus, then directly beneath and pai-allel with the clavicle : crossing over the third part of the subclavian arteiy, it passes beneath the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid to the superior border of the scapula. Here it is covered by the traj^ezius, goes above the transverse ligament which bridges over the notch, and divides into branches, some of which ramify above, others below, the spine of this bone. It inosculates freely in the infra-spinous fossa with the dorsalis scapulfe, a branch of the F 2