178 DISSECTION OF THE PHAEYNX. The upper part of the funnel forms a cul-de-sac at the basilar process of the occipital bone. At this part there is, on each side, the opening of a narrow canal, called the Eustachian tube, through which air passes to the tympanum of the ear.* Before the muscles of the pharynx can be examined, we must remove a layer of thin fascia, termed the pharyngeal fascia. It is the layer of deep cervical fascia behind the pharynx, and must not be confounded with the proper pharyngeal aponeurosis, which intervenes between its muscular and mucous walls. At the back of the pharynx, near the base of the skull, are a few lymphatic glands. They sometimes enlarge, and form a per- ceptible tumour in the pharynx. In removing the fascia from the pharyngeal muscles notice that a number of veins ramify and communicate in all directions. They constitute the pharyngeal venous plexus, and terminate in the internal jugular veins. OoNSTHicTOR Thcy aro three in number, and arranged so that Muscles OF THE they overlap each other—i.e. the inferior overlaps Phaktnx. ^Jjq middle, and the middle the superior (fig. 33). They have the same attachments on both sides of the body ; and the fibres from the right and left meet together, and are inserted in the mesial line, the insertion being marked by a white longitu- dinal line called the raphe. The infenor constrictor arises from the side of the cricoid cartilage, from the oblique ridge and the upper and lower borders of the thyroid cartilage. Its fibres expand over the lower part of the pharynx. The superior fibres ascend; the middle run * Observe that the pharynx concliicts to the oesophagus by a gradual contraction of its channel. This transition, however, is in some cases suiSciently abrupt to detain a foreign body, such as a morsel of food more bulky than usual, at the top of the oesophagus. If such a substance become firmly impacted in this situation, one can readily understand that it will not only prevent the descent of food into the stomacb, but that it may occasion, by its pressure on the trachea, alarming symptoms of suffocation. Supposing that the obstacle can neither bo removed by the forceps, nor pushed into the stomach by the probang, it may then become necessary to extract it by making an incision into the oesophagus on the loft side of the neck.