STETJOTURE OF THE STOMACH. 489 tracted, and is called the pyloric end. Just before the pylorus, the stomach bulges into a pouch, called antrum, pylori. Anato- mists describe the stomach as having two borders and two sur- faces. The upper border is concave, and called the lesser curve: the lower border is convex, and called the greater curve. On removing the serous investment of the stomach, the muscular coat is exposed. The fibres are of the non-striped variety, and arranged in three layers, an external or longitudinal^ a middle or circular, and an internal or oblique. The longitudinal fibres are continuous with the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus, and spread out over the stomach: they are most numerous along the curves of the stomach. The circular fibres are well marked about the middle of the stomach, but are most abundant at the pylorus, where they form a powerful sphincter. The oblique fibres are scattered over the sides of the stomach, and are most distinct at the entrance of the oesophagus, with the well-marked circular fibres of which they are continuous. When the stomach is laid open, the mucous membrane is seen to be of a pale colour, and gathered into longitudinal folds—rugce —which disappear when the stomach is full. The mucous mem- brane is connected to the muscular layer by a distinct stratum of areolar tissue, called the submucous coat. It permits the mus- cular and mucous coats to move freely on each other, and serves as a bed, in which the blood-vessels ramify minutely before they enter the mucous membrane. If a portion of the mucous membrane be examined under a microscope, its surface will be seen to be mapped out into small hexagonal pits or alveoli, giving it a honey-combed appearance. The pits vary from the yq-q Xoo" ^^^^ diameter. At the bottom of them are a number of minute pores, the orifices of the gastric tubes. In a perpendicular section, the tubes are arranged in parallel lines at right angles to the surface, and terminate in blind sacculated ends set in the submucous tissue. The entire thickness of the mucous membrane is made up of these tubular glands. The tubules are on an average about of an inch long and the -^-^ of an inch in diameter. In the cardiac end they are