CERVICAL FASCIA. 23 Below, it is attached to the first rib, to which it binds down the intermediate tendon of the omo-hyoid; and still further down it is continuous in the chest with the pericardium. It may, also, be traced under the clavicle along the axillary vessels and nerves into the axilla. Above, it is attached to the angle of the lower jaw, from which it extends backwards to the styloid process, and forms the stylo-maxillary ligament. Thence it is attached to the base of the skull, the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and the basilar process of the occipital l)one. A correct knowledge of the attachments of the principal layers of the cervical fascia is essential to a right understanding of the course which pus takes when it forms in the neck. For instance, suppose the pus to be formed at the lower part of the neck. If it be seated immediately under the superficial layer (which is attached to the clavicle), it may burrow beneath the clavicle into the axilla. But if it be seated beneath the deep layer (which is attached to the first rib), then it becomes a more serious affair, since the pus may travel through the loose tissue by the side of the pharynx, and make its way into the chest, where it may burrow down the anterior or the posterior mediastinum, and burst into the trachea or the oesophagus. Besides forming sheaths for the several structures of the neck, there are other purposes to which the cervical fascia is subservient. The firm attachment of its layers to the sternum, the first rib, and the clavicle, forms a fibrous barrier at the upper opening of the chest, which supports the soft parts, and prevents their yielding to the pressure of the atmosphere during inspiration. Dr. Allan Burns first pointed out this important function of the cervical fascia, and has recoixled a case exemplifying the results of its destruction by disease. Moreover, the great veins at the root of the neck, namely, the internal jugular, subclavian, and innominate, are so closely united by the cervical fascia to the adjacent bones and muscles, that * 'Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck.'