SUBMAXILLAEY REGION. 43 • sttlo- The stylo-hyoideus arises from the middle of HToiDEus. the styloid process of the temporal bone, and is inserted into the body of the os hyoides. This muscle runs close along, but above, the posterior belly of the digastricus. Most frequently the digastric tendon runs through the substance of it. Its nerve is derived from the facial close to its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen, in common with the branch to the posterior belly of the digastricus. Its action is to raise and draw back the OS hyoides. ■ The digastric triangle is bounded above by the horizontal ramus of the lower jaw, parotid gland, and mastoid process of the temporal bone; behind by the posterior belly of the digastricus; and in front by the anterior belly. The objects to be examined in this triangle are twelve in number, as follow : 1. Submaxillary salivary gland. 7. Stylo-maxillary ligament. > 2. Facial vein. . 8. Part of the parotid gland. , 3. Facial artery. 9. Part of the external carotid artery. 4. Submental artery. 10. Mylo-hyoideus muscle. 5. Mylo-hyoidean nerve. 11. Hypoglossal nerve. 6. Submaxillary lymphatic glands. 12. Part of the hyo-glossus muscle. Sotmaxillabt In the ordinary position of the head, the sub- Saxivaby Gland, maxillary gland is partially concealed by the jaw, but when the head falls back the gland is more exposed. It is about the size of a chestnut, and is divided into several lobes. Its upper margin is covered by the body of the jaw ; its lower margin overlaps the side of the os hyoides. Its cutaneous surface is flat, being covered only by the skin and platysma, but the lobes on its deep surface are irregular, and often continuous with those of the sublingual gland. By raising the gland we find that it lies upon the mylo-hyoideus, the hyo-glossus, the stylo-glossus, the tendon of the digastricus, and a portion of the hypoglossal nerve, seen above the tendon. The facial artery lies in a groove on its deeper sm-face and subsequently upon its upper border; and it is separated from the parotid gland, which is situated behind it, by the stylo-maxillary ligament. Mark these relations well, because