PALM OF THE HAND. 306 These four slender muscles, one for each fine-er, are attached to the deep nexor tendons in the palm. All of them arise from the radial side of the deep tendon of their corresponding finger: the third and fourth also arise from the adjacent sides of two tendons. Each terminates in a broad thin tendon which passes over the radial side of the first joint of the finger, and is inserted into the extensor tendon on the dorsal aspect of the first phalanx of the finger. Their action is to bend the first joint of the fingers. Being inserted near the centre of motion, they can move the fingers with great rapidity. As they produce the quick motions of the musician's fingers, they were called by the old anatomists ' fidicinales.' The two inner lumbricales are supplied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve; the two outer by the third and fourth digital branches of the median. Now proceed to the muscles composing the ball of the thumb and the little finger. The dissection of them requires consider- able care. Muscles of "^^^ great strength .of the muscles of the ball THE Ball of of the thumb (unde nomen poUicis), is one of the THE Thumb. distinguishing features of the human hand. This strength is necessary in order to oppose that of all the fingers. In addition to its strength, the thumb enjoys perfect mobility. It has no less than eight muscles—namely, an abductor, an opponens, two flexors, three extensors, and an adductor. Abductoh This is the most superficial. It is a thin, flat PoLiicis. muscle, and arises from the ridge of the os tra- pezium and the annular ligament. It is inserted by a flat tendon into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Its action is to draw the thmnb away from the fingers. Its nerve comes from the median. Eeflect it from its insertion to expose the follow- ing :— •with the wrist joint. It communicates always with the synovial sheath of the long flexor of the thumb, in most cases with that of the flexors of the little finger, and but rarely with that of the index, middle, and ring fingers. For this reason, inflammation of thetheca of the thumb or little finger is more liable to be attended witli serious consequences than either of the others.