56 BEANCHES OP THE EXTEENAL CAEOTID. The occipital vein usually terminates in the internal jugular, occasionally in the external jugular vein. Posterior An- The posterior auricular artery, the fifth branch, KicuLAE Artbet. ig giyeu off from tho postcnor part of the external carotid. It arises above the digastricus, lies on the styloid process, and under cover of the parotid gland reaches the furrow between the cartilage of the ear and the mastoid process. Before it reaches the furrow, it is crossed by the facial nerve, and just beneath it is the spinal accessory. Above the mastoid process it divides into two branches, a posterior inosculating with the occipital, and an anterior communicating with the temporal. It supplies the back of the scalp and the cartilage of the ear. It gives off— 1. Small branches to the digastricus, stylo-hyoid, and the parotid gland. 2. The stylo-mastoid, a very constant Httle artery, which runs through the stylo mastoid foramen to supply the mastoid cells, the vestibule, and the membrana tympani, inosculating with the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary, 3. The auricular branches, which supply both surfaces of the axu-icle. Posterior Au- The posterior auricular nerve lies close to the RicuLAR Nerve. artery of the same name. , It is the first branch of the seventh or facial nerve after its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen. It runs behind the ear and divides into an auricular branch to the retrahens and the attoUens aurem, and an occipital branch to the posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis. The nerve is connected with the auriculo-parotidean branch of the cervical plexus, and with the auricular branch of the pneumogastric nerve. Ascending This long and straight branch arises about half Phabtnqbal an inch above the division of the common carotid. Artkrt. It ascends between the internal carotid and the side of the pharynx to the base of the skull, lying upon the rectus capitis anticus major. It gives off numerous branches; among them are : 1. Small branches which pass outwards to supply the anterior recti m^iscles, the superior cervical gangHon, the pneumogastric and hypo- glossal nerves.