LIGAMENTS OP THE KNEE-JOINT. 570 of the femur. The fold extends higher above the inner than the outer condyle, which accounts for the form of the swelling produced by effusion into the joint. Folds of Below the patella a slender band of the synovial Synovial Mem- membrane proceeds backwards to the space between ^i^^NE. the condyles, and is called the ligamentum mio- cosum. Two similar horizontal folds are termed the ligamenta alaria. These are not true ligaments, but merely remnants of the partition which, in the early stage of the joint's growth, divided it into two halves. Outside the synovial membrane there is always fat; especially under the ligamentum patellae. Its use is to fill up vacuities, and to mould itself to the several movements of the joint. Crucial The Crucial ligaments, so named because they Ligaments. cross like the letter X, extend from the mesial side of each condyle to the head of the tibia. The anterior or external, the smaller, ascends from the inner part of the fossa in front of the spine of the tibia, backwards and outwards to the inner and back part of the external condyle. The 'posteHor or internal, best seen from behind, extends from the back of the fossa behind the spine of the tibia forwards to the front of the inner condyle. - Between the condyles and the articular surfaces Intbb-arti- *' cuLA» OR of the tibia are two incomplete rings of fibro- Semi-lunab cartilage, shaped like the letter C. They serve Cartilages. deepen the articular surfaces of the tibia ; their mobility and flexibility enable them to adapt themselves to the condyles in the several movements of the joint; they distribute pressure over a greater surface and break shocks. They are thickest at the circumference, and gradually shelve off to a thin margin: thus they fit in between the bones, and adapt a convex surface to a flat one, as shown in fig. 132. Their form is suited to the condyles, the inner being oval, the outer circular, and the synovial membrane covers both surfaces of the cartilages. The ends of each are firmly attached by ligaments to the pits in front and behind the spine of the tibia ; but the ends of the external one