DISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. 587 longitudinal section is carefully made through its middle. The majority of these septal fibres enter the olivary bodies, and then emerging through the grey matter of the corpus dentatum, become continuous with the fibres of the restiform bodies and lateral tracts; others pass out from the posterior fissure and wind round the restiform bodies. These latter fibres are the trans- verse strice, seen on the floor of the fourth ventricle, some of which form the roots of the auditory nerves. PonsVakolu "^^^^ convex eminence of transverse white OR GEEAT CoMMis- fibrcs (p. 584) Is situated at the base of the SURE OF THE Ce- bralu, immediately above the medulla oblongata. EEBELLUM. ^^^^^ upou thc basikr groove of the occipital bone, and in its antero-posterior diameter measures rather more than an inch. The upper margin is convex, and arches over the crura cerebri; the lower is nearly straight, being separated from the medulla by a transverse groove. On each side the pons becomes narrower, in consequence of the transverse fibres being more closely aggregated ; these enter the anterior part of the cerebellum, constituting its middle cms. Along the middle runs a shallow groove which lodges the basilar artery. If the pia mater be removed, we observe how the superficial fibres pass transversely, to connect the two hemispheres of the cere- bellum. Throughout the mammalia the size of the pons bears a direct ratio to the degree of development of the lateral lobes of the cerebellum; therefore it is larger in man than in any other animal.* When the superficial transverse fibres are dissected off, the longitudinal fibres of the anterior pyramids are seen passing up beneath them to enter the crura cerebri, like a river under a bridge, hence its name of pons. These pyramidal fibres are separated into yet smaller bundles by deeper transverse fibres, which, like the superficial transverse ones, are continued into the cerebellum. Besides the transverse and longitudinal fibres just described, * Birds, reptiles, and fishes have no pons, as there are no lateral lobes to the cerebellum.