514 ADDUCTOR MUSCLES. Addtjctob This muscle anses from the lower part of the Magnus. body of the pubes near the symphysis, from the rami of the pubes and ischium, and from the tuberosity of the ischium. Its fibres spread out, and are inserted, behind the other adductors, into the lower part of the linea quadrati, into the ridge leading from the great trochanter to the linea aspera, also into the whole length of the linea aspera, and the ridge leading from it to the inner condyle. The upper fibres pass transversely outwards to their insertion, while the lower fibres descend nearly vertically. In front of the muscle are the adductor longus and brevis, the vastus internus, the obturator nerve and artery and the profunda artery; above it are the internal circumflex artery, the obturator externus, and the quadratus femoris; behind it, the biceps, semi-tendinous and semi-membranosus, the great ischiatic nerve, and the gluteus maximus. Its nerve comes from the posterior division of-the obturator. Observe that ail the adductor muscles are inserted into the femur by flat tendons more or less - connected. About the junction of the upper two-thirds with the lower third of the thigh, the femoral artery passes through an oval open- ing in the tendon of the adductor magnus. Psoas Magncs These muscles have been fully described in the AND iLiAcus dissection of the abdomen (p. 398). Tensor Fascia "^^^^ muscle is situated at the upper and outer Femokis. part of the thigh. It arises from the external lip of the crest of the ilium, close to the anterior superior spine. It descends with a slight inclination backwards, and is inserted, at the junction of the upper with the middle third of the thigh, between two layers of the strong aponeurosis, generally described as part of the fascia lata^ (p. 500). Its chief use is to fix the pelvis steadily on the thigh, and to rotate the thigh inwards; in this last action it co-operates with the anterior fibres of the gluteus medius, with which it is almost inseparably connected. Anyone may con- vince himself of this by placing his hand on the hip, and rotating * The deeper of these two lajers runs up to be strongly connected with the ten- don of the rectus and the front of the capsule of the hip-joint.