STRUCTUEE OF THE EYELIDS. 78 frontalis. It lies concealed beneath these two muscles, and is the proper muscle of frowning. Its nerve comes from the facial. The present being a good opportunity to examine the structure and appendages of the eyelids, postpone for the present the dissec- tion of the remaining muscles of the face. The eyelids are two elliptical movable folds, consisting of strata of different tissues. The upper lid is the larger, and more movable, so that when the eye is closed, it is mainly by this fold. The interval between the two lids is called the ^fissura palpe- brarum,^ which terminates on the inner and outer sides, in two angles, the canthi. The lids are thickest at their borders, are somewhat curved, and near the inner canthus each presents a slight elevation, the papilla lachrymalis, at the top of which is a small opening, punctum lachrymale, to receive the tears. Cakuncuia The conjunctiva lines the ipner surface of the Lachktmalis. lids, and at the inner canthus is raised into a red rounded eminence, called the caruncula lachrymalis. This is com- posed of an aggregation of sebaceous glands covered with mucous membrane. On the surface of it are minute hairs. Its use is, probably, to support the inner junction of the lids. When the caruncle is diminished in size by disease, the puncta lachrymalia become displaced, and the tears run down the cheek. External to the caruncula lachrymalis is a slight vertical fold of conjunctiva, plica semilunaris, which is by some considered to be a rudimentary membrana nictitans (the third eyelid found in birds). The conjunctival coat of the eyelid will be described with the anatomy of the eye. Observe at present, that it is more vascular than the conjunctival coat of the eye, and that it presents a num- ber of minute papillte, which, when enlarged and aggregated by inflammation, give rise to the disease called ' granular lids.' The eyelashes (cilia) are placed in two or more rows along the edges of the tarsal cartilages. The eyelashes of the upper lid are longer and more numerous than in the lower; and their convexity is directed downwards, while those of the lower lid present an opposite curve. The bulbs of the lashes are situated between the