MEDIAN NERVE IN THE FOEEAEM. 294 TT This nerve rims behind the internal condyle, between the two origins of the flexor carpi ulnaris. In its course down the upper part of the forearm, tlie nerve is still covered by this muscle, and lies upon the flexor profundus digi- torum. About the middle of the forearm, the nerve joins the ulnar artery, and runs along its inner side over the anterior annular ligament into the palm. The ulnar nerve, as it lies behind the elbow, gives off some filaments to the joint. It supplies branches to the flexor carpi ulnaris, and to the ulnar half of the flexor profundus digitorum. It also gives off a small cutaneous branch, which accompanies the ulnar artery to the palm. About two inches above the styloid process of the ulna, the nerve gives off, to the back of the hand, its doo'sal cvianeous branch, which is of considerable size. This crosses under the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and, immediately below the styloid process of the ulna, appears on the back of the hand, where it divides into branches which supply the back of the little finger, and half the ring finger ; here also it sends a branch which com- municates with the corresponding branch of the radial nerve. ^ ^ This nerve, at the bend of the elbow, lies on the inner side of the brachial artery. It then passes between the two origins of the pronator teres, and descends along the middle of the forearm, between the flexor sublimis and the flexor profundus digitorum. At the lower part of the forearm, it becomes more superficial, lying about the middle of the wrist, be- tween the outer tendon of the flexor sublimis, and the inner border of the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis : it then enters the palm beneath the anterior annular ligament, and divides into five branches for the supply of the thumb, both sides of the fore and middle fingers, and the outer side of the ring finger.* Immediately below the elbow, the median nerve sends branches to the pronator teres and all the flexor muscles of the forearm, * If the tendon of the palmaris longus happen to be broader than usual, it may partially cover the median nerve near the wrist; but most frequently the nerve is im- mediately beneath the fascia, the tendon lying to its ulnar side.