BEACHIO-CEPHALIC AETERT. 130 descending thoracic aorta. On its right side are the oesophagus and thoracic duct; on its left is the pleura; in front is the root of the left lung. What parts are contained within the arch of the aorta ?—The left bronchus, the right pulmonary artery, the left recurrent nerve, the remains of the ductus arteriosus, and the superficial cardiac plexus of nerves. Relations of These relations vary according to the size of the THE Arch of the heart, the obliquity of the ribs, and the general AoKTA TO THE dcvelopmcut of the chest. In a well-formed adult Steenoti. ^i^g ascending aorta is, at the most prominent part of its bulge, about half an inch behind the first bone of the sternum. The highest part of the arch is about one inch below the upper edge of the sternum.* From the upper part of the arch arise three large arteries for the head, neck, and upper limbs; namely, the brachio-cephalic or innominate artery, the left carotid, and the left subclavian. Bbachio-cepha- This, the largest of the three, arises from the Lie OR Innominate commencement of the transverse part of the arch. Abteet. ascends obliquely towards the right, and after a course of about one inch and a half to two inches divides behind the right sterno-clavicular joint into two arteries of nearly equal size—the right subclavian and the right carotid. The relations of the b. c. artery are as follow. It lies behind the first bone (manubrium) of the sternum and the right sterno- clavicular joint. It ascends obliquely (towards the right) in front of and close to the trachea. On its right side, and close to it, is the right b. c. vein. On its left is the left carotid a. In front of it are the left b. c. vein, the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid m. * The relations of the arch of the aorta to the sternum vary eren in adults, more especially if there be any hypertrophy of the heart. As an instance among many, we may mention that of a young female who died of phthisis. The position of the aortic valves was opposite the middle of the sternum, on a level with the middle of the second costal articulation. The highest part of the arch was on a level with the upper border of the sternum; the arteria innominata was situated entirely in front of the trachea; and the left brachio-cephalic vein crossed the trachea so much above the sternum' that it would have been directly exposed to injury in tracheotomy.