CONTENTS OP POSTERIOR MEDIASTINUM. 141 by the liver. On an average, the right lung weighs 24 ounces ; the left 21 ounces. Posterior '^^^ posterior mediastinum (p. 123) is formed Mediastinum and by the reflection of the plem'al sac on each side, ITS Contents. fj.^^ ^j^g j.qq^^ the lung to the sides of the bodies of the dorsal vertebrse. It is bounded in front by the pericardium. To obtain a view of it, draw out the right lung, and fasten it to the left side. This mediastinum contains the descending thoracic aorta; in front of the aorta, the oesophagus, with the pneumogas- tric nerves ; on the right of the aorta is the vena azygos ; between this vein and the aorta is the thoracic duct; superiorly is the trachea ; inferiorly are the splanchnic nerves and some lymphatic glands. To expose these last, we must remove the pleura, and a layer of dense fascia which lines the chest outside it. Descending We have already traced the arch of the aorta to Thoracic Aorta, the lower border of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra (p. 129). From this point, the aorta descends on the left side of the spine, gradually approaching towards the middle line. The artery, moreover, following the dorsal spinal curve is not vertical, but concave forwards. Opposite the last dorsal vertebra it passes between the crura of the diaphragm and enters the abdomen. Its left side is covered by pleura; on its right run the vena azygos, the CBSophagus, and thoracic duct; in front of it are, the root of the left lung, and the pericardium. Lower down the oesophagus is in front of the artery, and subse- quently lies a little to its left side. Its branches will be described presently. Vena Azygos, This vein commences in the abdomen by small Major and branches from one of the lumbar veins of the right side, and generally communicates with the renal, or the vena cava itself. This, indeed, is the main point about the origin of the vena azygos, that it communicates directly or indirectly with the vena cava inferior. It enters the chest through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, and ascends on the right side of the aorta through the posterior mediastinum, in front of the bodies of the lower dorsal vertebrae, and over the right