173 STRUCTURE OP THE LUNGS. connective tissue, and covered externally by pleura. The part at which they respectively pass in and out is called the root of the lung. The lungs are the lightest organs in the body, and float in water. When entirely deprived of air they sink. This is observed in certain pathological conditions; e.g. when one lung is com- pressed by effusion into the chest, or rendered solid by inflam- mation. CoNTKACTiBi- Whcu au opeulug is made into the chest, the LiTT OF THE luug, whlch was in contact with the ribs, imme- diately recedes from them, and, provided there be no adhesions, gradually contracts. If the lungs be artificially inflated, either in or out of the chest, we observe that they spontaneously expel a part of the air. This disposition to contract, in the living and the dead lung, is due to the elastic tissue in the bronchial tubes and the air-cells; but more especially to a layer of delicate elastic tissue on the surface of the lung, which has been described by some anatomists as a distinct coat, under the name of the second or inner layer of the pleura.* ^ The lungs are of a livid red or violet colour; they often present a mixture of tints, giving them a marble-like appearance. This is not the natural colour of the organ, since it is produced in the act of dying. It depends upon the stagnation of the venous blood, which the right ventricle still propels into the lungs, though respiration is failing. The tint varies in particular situations in proportion to the amount of blood, and is always deepest at the back of the lung. Eut the colour of the proper tissue of the lung apart from the blood which it contains is pale and light grey. This colour is seldom seen except in the lungs of infants who have never breathed, or after death from profuse haemorrhage. Upon or near the surface of the lungs, numerous dark spots are observed, which do not depend upon the blood, since they are seen in the palest lungs. They vary in number and size, and * In some animals, the seal especially, the elasticity of this tissue is very strongly marked.