298 PALM OP THE HAND. deep surface of the fascia two septa dip down, and divide the palm into three separate compartments; one for the ball of the thumh, a second for that of the little finger, and a third for the centre of the palm. The fascia is formed by a prolongation from the anterior annular ligament. It is also strengthened by the expanded tendon of the palmaris longus. The central portion of the fascia is triangular, with the apex at the wrist. About the middle of the palm it splits into four portions, which are connected by transverse tendinous fibres, extending completely across the palm, and corresponding pretty nearly to the transverse furrow of the skin in this situation. Examine any one of these four portions of the fascia, and you will find that it splits into two strips which embrace the corre- sponding flexor tendons, and are intimately connected with the transverse metacarpal ligament. The effect of this is that the flexor tendons of each finger are kept in place in the palm, by a fibrous ring. Between the four divisions of the palmar fascia the digital vessels and nerves emerge, and descend in a line with the clefts between the fingers. In the hands of mechanics, in whom the palmar fascia is usually very strong, we find that slips of it are lost in the skin at the lower part of the palm, and also for a short distance along the sides of the fingers. The chief use of the palmar fascia is, to protect the vessels and nerves from pressure, when anything is grasped in the hand. It also confines the flexor tendons in their proper place. Beneath- the interdigital folds of the skin, there are apo- neurotic fibres to strengthen them, constituting what are called the transverse ligaments of the fingers. They form a continuous liga- ment across the lower part of the palm, in front of the digital vessels and nerves. Cut through the palmar fascia at its attachment to the anterior annular ligament, and reflect it towards the fingers, so as to expose the vessels, nerves, and tendons in the palm. The vessels lie above the nerves, and the tendons