MUSCLES OF THE CALF. 649 „ The short saphenous nerve ^ is derived from Short or ^ . , , i ^ Posterior Sa- the popliteal (fig. 125), and passes down between PHENous Neryb. the two heads of the gastrocnemius to the middle of the calf, where it pierces the fascia. Here it is joined by a branch from the peroneal nerve (communicans 'peronei); it then descends with the short saphena vein, and is finally distributed to the outer side of the foot and the little toe. To expose the muscles of the calf, reflect the muscular fascia by incisions corresponding to those made through the skin. Muscles of The great flexor muscle of the foot consists of THE Calf. two portions : the superficial one, called the gas- trocnemius, arises from the lower end of the femur; the deep one, called the soleus, arises from the tibia and fibula. The force of both is concentrated on one thick tendon, called the tendo Achillis, which is inseHed into the os calcis. Gastho- This muscle arises by two strong tendinous cKEMius. heads, one from the upper and back part of each condyle of the femur (fig. 125). The inner head is the larger and longer. The two parts of the muscle descend, distinct from each other, and form the two bellies of the calf, of which the inner is Bather the lower. Both terminate, rather below the middle of the leg, on the broad commencement of the tendo Achillis. The gastrocnemius should be divided transversely near its insertion, and reflected upwards from the subjacent soleus, as high as its origin. By this proceeding you observe that the contiguous surfaces of the muscles are covered by a glistening tendon, which receives the insertion of their fibres, and transmits their collected force to the tendo Achillis. Observe also the large sural vessels and nerves (branches of the popliteal) which enter the mesial aspect of each head of the muscle. To facilitate the play of the inner tendon over the condyle, there is a bursa, which generally communicates with the knee-joint; and in the substance of the outer tendon is commonly found a small * This nerre is sometimes called the communicans poplitd, and does not take the name of short saphenous till its junction with the communicans peronei, (P. 642.)