SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCEHA. 436 oval, and its long axis, if produced, would pass superiorly through the umbilicus, and inferiorly through the end of the coccyx. The axis of a child's bladder is more vertical than that of the adult; for in children, the bladder is not a pelvic viscus. This makes lithotomy in them so much more difficult. The quantity of urine which the bladder will hold without much inconvenience varies. As a general rule, it may be stated at about a pint. Much depends upon the habits of the individual; but some persons have, naturally, a very small bladder, and are obliged to empty it more frequently. In young persons the lowest part of the bladder is the neck, or that part which joins the prostate. But as age advances, the bottom of the bladder gradually deepens so as to form a pouch behind the prostate. In old subjects, particularly if the prostate be enlarged, this pouch becomes deep, micturition becomes tedious, and the bladder cannot completely empty its contents. It some- times, happens that a stone in the bladder is not felt; the reason of which may be that the stone, lodged in such a pouch below the level of the neck of the bladder, escapes the detection of the sound. Under these circumstances, if the patient be placed on an inclined plane with the pelvis higher than the shoulders, the stone falls out of the pouch, and is easily struck. This tube is about seventeen inches long, and XJeetbr conveys the urine from the kidney to the bladder. In the dissection of the abdomen (p. 394), it was seen descending along the psoas muscle, behind the spermatic vessels, and crossing the common iliac artery into the pelvis. Tracing it downwards, in the posterior false ligament of the bladder, we find that it runs along the side of the bladder, external to the vas deferens, and enters it about an inch and a half behind the prostate, and about two inches from its fellow of the opposite side (fig. 97). It per- forates the bladder very obliquely, so that the aperture, being valvular, allows the urine to flow into, but not out of it. The narrowest part of the ureter is at the vesical orifice; here, there- fore, a calculus is more likely to be arrested in its progress than at any other part of the canal.