521 BRANCHES OP PROFUNDA. for the femoral itself—indeed, such an error has occurred in practice. It soon, however, gets behind the femoral, and lies upon the pectineus, the adductor brevis and magnus; it is separated from the femoral artery at first, by their corresponding veins; lower down, by the adductor longus. The branches of the profunda generally arise in the following order :—1, the internal circumflex ; 2, the external circumflex ; 3, the perforating. The internal circumflex is given off from the inner and back part of the profunda, and then sinks deeply into the thigh between the psoas and pectineus. At the lower border of the obturator externus it divides into two branches ; one—the ascending—supplies the muscles in its neighbour- hood, namely, the pectineus, psoas, adductors, gracilis, and obturator ex- ternus, anastomosing with the obturator artery; the other—the transverse —will be seen in the dissection of the back of the thigh, between the adductor magnus and the quadratus femoris. This latter sometimes gives off a small branch to the hip-joint, which runs through the notch in the acetabulum to the ligamentum teres ; it afterwards inosculates with the ischiatic and superior perforating arteries. The external circumflex artery comes off from the outer side of the profunda, runs transversely outwards beneath the sartorius and rectus between the branches of the anterior crural nerve, and then subdivides into three sets of branches, ascending, transverse, and descending. The ascending run up to the outer side of the ilium, beneath the tensor fasciae and gluteus medius, supply these muscles, and inosculate with the termi- nal branches of the gluteal artery. The transverse pass directly outwards over the crureus, then enter the vastus externus, and get between the muscle and the femur. They inosculate with the ischiatic, the internal circumflex, the gluteal, and the perforating arteries. The descending, one or more in number, of considerable size, run down between the rectus and crureus, and supply both these muscles: one branch, larger than the rest, runs down in the substance of the vastus externus. alone with the nerve to that muscle, and inosculates with the articular branches of the popliteal. The perforating branches of the profunda are so named because they pass through the adductors to supply the hamstring muscles. There are generally four. The first passes through the adductor brevis and magnus, and, communicates with the internal chcumflex and ischiatic arteries.