399 PSOAS AND ILIACUS. thrown over the lumbar vessels. The muscle descends vertically along the brim of the pelvis, beneath the crural arch into the thigh, and is inserted by a strong tendon into the back part of the lesser trochanter of the femur. In front, the psoas has in relation with it the ligamentum arcuatum internum, the external iliac artery, the kidney and the ureter, the spermatic vessels, the genito- crural nerve and the vas deferens; behind it, are the ilium, the quadratus lumborum, the lumbar plexus of nerves, and the obturator nerve which, lower down, rims along the inner border of the muscle. Towards its insertion, the tendon of the psoas lies between the iliacus and the pectineus. As it passes under the crural arch, the tendon of the psoas lies immediately over the capsule of the hip-joint, and there is a large bm-sa between them to facilitate the play of the tendon. It should be borne in mind that occasionally, even in young subjects, but more frequently in old ones, in consequence of wear and tear, this bursa communicates with the hip-joint. The fact is im- portant ; for it explains how a psoas abscess sometimes makes its way into the hip-joint: a result frequently fatal. Psoas Paetus Once in about eight or ten subjects there is a small muscle called the psoas parvus. It arises from the bodies of the last dorsal and the first lumbar vertebrae, and the intervening fibro-cartilage ; thence descending in front and to the inner side of the psoas magnus, it ends in a long flat tendon, which spreads out, and is inserted into the linea ilio-pectinea. Iliacus Inteknus This muscle occupies the iliac fossa, and is AND Iliac Pascia. covered by the iliac fascia. This iliac fascia is attached to the crest of the ilium, and indirectly to the brim of the pelvis through its connection with the sheath of the psoas. Its most important attachment is to the outer half of the crural arch ; here it is directly continuous with the fascia transversalis (p. 365), so that, together, they present an effectual barrier to the escape of intestine beneath this part of the arch.* The external iliac artery * The iliac fossae are liable to be the seat of suppuration, and the course ■which the pus takes depends upon its position with regard to the iliac fascia. If the pus bo seated in the loose cellular tissue between the peritoneum and the fascia, it