SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 62 In the second (the highest) part of its course, the artery lies between the scalene muscles. It is covered by skin, platysma, and superficial fascia, by the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, the deep cervical fascia, and by the scalenus anticus and phrenic nerve which separate it from the subclavian vein. Behind the artery is the scalenus medius ; above it is the brachial plexus; below it is the pleura. Only one branch, the superior intercostal, is given oflf from this part of the artery. In the third part of its course, the artery passes downwards and outwards, and lies in the supra-clavicular triangle upon the surface of the first rib. Here it is covered by the skin, platysma, and two layers of the cervical fascia; subsequently by the supra- scapular artery, the clavicle, the subclavius muscle, with its nerve; and, what is of much more consequence, it is here crossed by the external jugular and (often) the supra and posterior scapular veins; so that there is here a confluence of large veins in front of the artery. The subclavian vein is situated below the artery, but on a plane anterior to it. Below it is the first rib, and behind it the scalenus medius. Above the artery and to its outer side, are the trunk nerves of the brachial plexus and the omo-hyoid m. One of these nerves (the conjoined fifth and sixth cervical) runs so nearly parallel with the artery, and on a plane anterior to it, that it is quite possible to mistake the nerve for the artery, in the operation of tying it. We have heard a hospital surgeon of great experience say, that he had seen this mistake committed on three separate occa- sions. In this part of its course, the artery as a rule gives off no branches; the most frequent exceptions are the posterior scapular, and supra-scapular. Left Subcla- The left subclavian is the last of the three viAN Aktekt. great branches which arise from the arch of the aorta. It ascends nearly vertically out of the chest, and then arches in front of the apex of the lung and pleura to reach the inner border of the scalenus anticus, behind which it runs over the first rib. In the first part of its course, the left subclavian lies deeply in the chest, near the spine. On its left side it is covered by the