STRUCTURE OP THE EYELIDS. 80 unites with the broad tarsal ligament, and is lost on the upper surface of the superior tarsal cartilage. Taesal Cabti- These are plates of dense fibro-cartilage which LAGEs AND LiGA- support aud give shape to the eyelids. There is one for each lid, and they are connected at the angles {commissures or canthi) of the lids through the me- dium of fibrous tissue. They can be best examined by everting the lids. Each cartilage resembles its lid in form. The upper is the larger, is broad in the middle, and gradually becomes narrower at either end. The lower is nearly of uniform breadth throughout. Both are thicker on the nasal than the temporal side. They are connected to the margin of the orbit, and main- tained in position by the tendo palpebrarum (p. 76), and by what are called the broad tarsal or palpebral ligaments: these ligaments are continuations from the periosteum of the orbit to the tarsal cartilages, and are denser at the outer part of the orbit. There are two of them, termed upper and lower, and proceeding to each cartilage respectively. When an abscess forms in the connective tissue of the lids, these ligaments prevent the matter from making its way into the orbit. Each tarsal cartilage is moreover attached to the malar bone by means of a ligament, called the external tarsal ligament. The ciliary margin is the thickest part of the tarsal cartilages. It is generally stated that the inner edge of each is sloped or bevelled off; and that, when the lids are closed, there is formed, with the globe of the eye, a triangular channel. This channel is said to conduct the tears to the puncta lachrymalia. According to our observation, this channel does not exist; for when the lids are closed, their margins are in such accurate apposition, that not the slightest interspace can be discovered between them. Puncta The puncta lachrymalia are two pin-hole aper- Lachkymalia. tures, easily discovered on the margin of the lids, close to the inner angle. They are the orifices of the canals, called canaliculi, which pass inwards, and convey the tears into tlie lachrymal sac. Observe that their orifices are directed backwards. The upper canaliculus, the longer and narrower of the two, ascends