VENA PORT^. 389 and secretes the bile. The trunk of the vena portse itself is about three inches long. Tracing it downwards you find that it is formed behind the great end of the pancreas, by the con- fluence of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins (fig. 82). In its passage to the liver, the vena portse is accompanied by the hepatic artery and the common bile-duct, lying behind and between them. At the transverse fissure of the liver it divides into two branches corresponding to the right and left lobes. The vein ramifies in the substance of the liver like an artery, and is surrounded, with the branches of the hepatic artery and duct, in a sheath of areolar or fibrous tissue called Glisson^s capsule. The vena portse may, then, be compared to the stem of a tree, of which the roots arise in the digestive organs, and the branches spread out in the liver. After receiving the veins corresponding to the branches of the hepatic artery, the vena portse returns its blood into the inferior vena cava through the venae cavse hepaticse. The veins which empty themselves inta the vena portse have no valves. Therefore, if any obstruction arise in the venous circulation through the liver, the roots of the portal vein are apt to become congested: this is a common cause of hsemorrhoids, diarrhoea, hsemorrhage from the bowels, and ascites. Leeches applied to the anus have been long recogiiised as beneficial in congestion of the liver. ^ The hepatic duct is composed of two trunks, one from the right lobe and the other from the left: it is soon joined by the cystic duct from the gall-bladder. The common duct, ductus communis choledochus, thus formed, passes between the two layers of the lesser omentum close to its right border, then behind the first portion of the duodenum, and opens obliquely into the back part of the second portion, near the junc- tion with the third. The duct runs through the coats of the bowel for nearly three-quarters of an inch (p. 387). As the common bile-duct descends between the layers of the lesser omentum, it lies in front of the vena portse, having the hepatic artery on its left. The duct is about three inches long, and if distended would be about the size of a crow-quill.