ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. 356 The corresponding veins join the saphena vein of the thigh. Under ordinary circumstances they do not appear in the living subject; but when any obstruction occurs in the inferior vena cava, they become enlarged and tortuous, and constitute the chief channels through which the blood would be returned from the lower limbs.* Cutaneous The skin of the abdomen is supplied with nerves Nerves. g^f^gj. same plan as the chest: namely, by lateral and anterior branches derived from the five or six lower intercostal nerves, as follows :— a. The lateral cutaneous nerves come out between the digita- tions of the external oblique muscle, in company with small arteries, and divide into anterior and posterior branches; the anterior supply the skin as far as the rectus; the posterior, the skin over the latissimus dorsi. The lateral branch of the twelfth dorsal nerve is lai'ger than the others, and passes over the crest of the ilium to the skin of the buttock, without dividing like the other nerves. The corresponding branch of the first lumbar has a similar distribution. h. The anterior cutaneous nerves emerge with small arteries through the sheath of the rectus. They are not only smaller than the lateral nerves, but their number and place of exit is less regular. That which comes through the external abdominal ring {ilio-inguinal), as well as that which comes through the wall of the abdomen just above it (the hypogastric branch of the ilio- hypogastric), are derived from the first lumbar nerve. These, however, are but repetitions of the others, and supply the skin of the groin and scrotum in the male, and the labium pudendi in the female. A small nerve—namely, the g&nital branch of the genito-crural —comes through the external ring. It lies behind the cord close to the outer pillar. Dissection. The deep layer of the superficial fascia should now be removed from the external oblique, by commencing at the * A cast in illustration of this is preserved in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.