274 VEINS AT THE ELBOW. veins at the bend of the elbow (fig. 56). On the outer side is the radial; on the inner side is the ulnar vein, formed by the j unction of the anterior and posterior ulnar cutaneous veins ; in the centre is the median, which divides into two branches, the external of which, uniting with the radial to form the cephalic vein, is called the median cephalic; the internal, uniting with the ulnar to form the basilic, is named the median basilic. Near its bifur- cation, the median vein communicates by a branch (mediana profunda) with the deep veins which accompany the arteries of the forearm. Trace the cephalic vein up the arm. It runs along the outer border of the biceps to the groove between the pectoralis major and the deltoid, where it terminates in the axillary vein. The basilic vein ascends along the inner side of the arm with the internal cutaneous nerve. Near the upper third of the arm, it perforates the fascia, and empties itself either into the in- ternal vena comes of the brachial artery or into the axillary vein. _ The principal branches of the cutaneous nerves Eeiatiok of THE Cutaneous P^ss beneath the veins: that is to say, as a rule. Nerves and Veins the internal cutaneous passes behind the median AT THE Elbow. basilic veiu, and the external cutaneous behind the median cephalic : but it should be remembered that many small filaments cross in front which are exposed to injury in venesection. ^ ^ Since the median basilic vein is larger than the Median Basilic median cephalic, and, on account of the strong Vein to Bea- fascia beneath, more easily compressible, it is cHiAx Aeteet. usually chosen for venesection; its position, there- fore, in reference to the brachial artery, becomes important. The vein is only separated from the artery by the semilunar fascia, derived from the tendon of the biceps. This fascia is in some subjects remarkably thin. Sometimes the artery lies above the fascia, in contact with the vein. lu choosing, therefore, this vein for venesection, there is a risk of wounding the artery; hence the practical rule, to bleed either from the median cephalic, or