PERONEI MUSCLES. 532 membrane. In removing the metatarsal bone of the great toe, if possible, leave the insertion of this tendon. Its nerve comes from the peroneal. Peboneus This muscle lies beneath the preceding. It arises from about the middle third of the outer surface of the fibula, internal to the preceding muscle, and from the intermuscular septa. It terminates on a tendon which runs behind the external malleolus, through the same sheath with the peroneus longus, then proceeds along the outside of the foot and is inserted into the tarsal end of the metatarsal bone of the little toe.* Its nerve is from the peroneal. The action of the peronei is to raise the outer side of the foot.f This movement regulates the bearing of the foot in progression, so as to throw the principal part of the weight on the ball of the great toe. Its action is well exemplified in skating. Again, supposing the fixed point to be at the foot, they tend to prevent the body from falling on the opposite side,.as when we balance ourselves on one leg. Peroneal Near the inner side of the tendon of the biceps OR MuscuLo-cu- flexor of the leg, is a large nerve, the external popli- TANEous Nebye. ^q^i qj. peroucal, a branch of the great ischiatic. By reflecting the upper part of the peroneus longus, you will find that this nerve runs round the outer side of the fibula immediately below its head. Here it divides into several branches, as follows :— 1. Articular hvanches to the knee-joint, which pass in with the external articular arteries, and; the tibial recurrent artery ; 2. The anterior tibial, which accompanies the corresponding artery and supplies the muscles between which it runs, namely the tibialis anticus, extensor longus digitorum, extensor proprius pollicis—and peroneus tertius : also the extensor brevis digitorum ; 3. The exter- nal-cutaneous (p."526.), which comes through the fascia between the * On the outside of the os calcis there is a ridge which separates the tendons of the peronei. Each has a distinct sheath. The short tendon runs above, the long one below the ridge. f In distortion of the foot outwards, called talipes valgus, it is generally neces- sary to divide the tendons of the peronei.