SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISGEEA. 445 the back of the pelvis, for the supply of the flexor muscles of the inferior extremity. The other branches of the plexus are as follows:— a. Muscular branches distributed to the levator ani, the coccy- geus, the external sphincter of the anus, the pyriformis, gemelli, quadratus femoris, and obturator internus. The nerve to the last- named muscle (sometimes derived from the pudic) leaves the pelvis with the pudic artery, and re-enters with it to reach the muscle. The branch to the inferior gemellus and quadratus fe- moris passes beneath those muscles and enters their anterior aspect. It also sends a filament to the hip-joint. 6. The superior gluteal nerve proceeds from the lumbo-sacral, leaves the pelvis above the pyriformis with the gluteal artery, and supplies the gluteus medius and minimus, and the tensor fasciae femoris. c. The lesser ischiatic supplies the gluteus maximus, the skin of the buttock, the perineum, and the back of the thigh. d. The pudic nerve runs with the pudic artery, and like it, supplies the rectum, the muscles of the perineum, and the penis. e. The branches for the pelvic viscera are very small. They proceed chiefly from the third and fourth sacral nerves, and form an intricate plexus about the bladder, prostate, and rectum. Sympathetic From the lumbar region the sympathetic nerve Neeve. descends into the pelvis, along the inner side of the sacral foramina. In this part of its course its ganglia vary in nvuuber from three to five. The nerves of opposite sides unite in front of the coccyx, where they form the ganglion impar. The arrangement of the sympathetic nerves in the pelvis is similar to that in the abdomen. Each ganglion receives one or two filaments from a spinal nerve, and then gives off its branches to the viscera. The visceral branches are exceedingly delicate, and cannot be traced unless the parts have been previously hardened in spirit. They accompany the arteries supplying the respective organs, and are called the vesical, prostatic, and inferior hoimorrhoidal plexuses; and in the female the uterine and vaginal.