SIDE VIEW OP THE PELVIC VISOEEA. 443 pyriformis and sacral plexus, having the rectum to its inner side. It passes out of the pelvis through the great ischiatic notch, below the pyriformis, crosses the spine of the ischium, and re-enters the pelvis through the lesser notch. It then ascends on the inner side of the obturator internus towards the pubic arch, where it gives branches to the several parts of the penis. In its passage on the inner side of the obturator muscle it is enclosed in a strong tube of fascia (formed by the obturator fascia), and is situated about one inch and a quarter above the tuberosity of the ischium. The branches of the pudic artery were described in the dissection of the perineum (p. 425). The pudic artery, however, sometimes takes a very different course. Instead of passing out of the pelvis, it may run by the side of the prostate gland to its destination; or, one of the large branches of the pudic may take this unusual course, while the pudic itself is regular, but proportionably small. Anatomists are familiar with these varieties, and a winter session rarely passes without meeting with one or two examples of them. It need hardly be said that lithotomy, under such conditions, might be followed by a large haemorrhage. /. The middle sacral artery is a very diminutive prolongation of the aorta down to the coccyx. It becomes gradually smaller, and finally inosculates with the lateral sacral arteries. In animals this is the artery of the tail. Respecting the veins in the pelvis, they correspond with the arteries, and empty themselves into^ the internal iliac vein. The remarkable plexus of veins about the prostate, neck of the bladder, and rectum, has been described (p. 432). Nerves of the Those which proceed from the spinal cord should be examined first, afterwards those de- rived from the sympathetic system. Saceal Five sacral nerves proceed from the spinal cord Nerves. through the anterior sacral foramina. The upper four, from their large size, at once attract observation; but the fifth is small: it perforates the coccygeus muscle, supplying it and the skin over the coccyx.