PRECORDIAL REGION. 138 and sixth ribs, about two inches below the nipple and an inch to its sternal side. Speaking broadly, the base corresponds with a line drawn across the sternum along the upper borders of the third costal cartilages. The right border of the heart is formed almost entirely by the free margin of the right auricle, and, when dis- tended, bulges nearly an inch to the right of the sternum. The left border of the heart is formed by the round border of the left ventricle, and reaches from a point, commencing at the second left intercostal space, to a point placed two inches below the nipple and an inch to its sternal side. The horizontal border is formed by the sharp margin of the right ventricle, and extends from the sternal attachment of the fifth right costal cartilage, to meet the lowest point of the left margin. The normal position which the cardiac valves hold to the thoracic walls is difficult to define with precision, and this probably accounts for the discrepancies noticed in anatomical works on this subject. The following relations are the results of care- fully made observations in the ' post-mortem' room: The right auriculo-ventricular valves are situated behind the sternum about the level of the fourth costal cartilage: the left auriculo-ventri- cular valves are opposite the third intercostal space, about one inch to the left of the sternum; the cusps of these valves extend as low as the fifth costal cartilage. The pulmonary valves lie immediately behind the junction of the third left costal cartilage with the sternum ; the aortic valves are behind the upper border of the third intercostal space just at the left side of the sternum. The position of the heart varies a little with the position of the body. Of this anyone may convince himself by leaning alter- nately forwards and backwards, by lying on this side and on that, placing at- the same time his hand upon the praecordial region. He will find that he can, in a slight degree, alter the place and the extent of the impulse of the heart. Inspiration and expiration also alter the position of the heart. In inspiration the heart descends with the tendinous centre of the diaphragm about half an inch.