38 DEEP CERVICAL LYMPHATIC GLANDS. penetrates it, imperfectly dividing it into lobes and supporting the vessels as they enter it. It consists of a multitude of cells, which vary in size, from inch to that of a pin's head, and do not communicate with each other. In hypertrophy of the gland we sometimes see them as large as a horsebean, or even larger. The cells are oval and are lined by a single layer of endothelial cells resting upon a basement membrane, and contain a glairy transparent fluid, in which are found a large number of nuclei and nucleated cells. The arteries ramify most minutely upon their walls. Of its functions nothing is definitely known, but probably it is concerned in the elaboration of the blood.* An enlargement of the thyroid body is termed a ' bronchocele.' If the relation of its lobes to the trachea and oesophagus be pro- perly understood, it is easy to predicate the consequences which may result from their enlargement. The nature and severity of the symptoms will to a certain extent be determined by the part of the organ affected. If the isthmus be enlarged, difficulty in breathing will probably be the prominent symptom; and an en- largement of the left lobe is more likely to produce a difficulty in swallowing, on account of the inclination of the oesophagus towards, the left side. An instance is related by Allan Burns in which the isthmus was placed between the trachea and the oesophagus. It must be obvious that enlargement of a part so situated would occasion great difficulty in swallowing. I have seen two cases in which the lateral lobes projected so far inwards that they completely embraced the back of the oesophagus. Small lymphatic glands are observed about the thyroid body, especially in front of the trachea; one is often situated over the crico-thyroid membrane. These glands, if enlarged by disease, miofht be mistaken for a small bronchocele. Deep Cervical connective tissue wliich surrounds the Lymphatic great vessels of the neck, we meet with a series Glands. lymphatic glands, called the deep cervical. * The thyroid body is, primarily, dereloped as a pouch from the anterior wall of the pharynx; the lateral lobes are first formed, and are subsequently united by the isthmus. W. Miiller, ' Jenaisch. Zeitsch.' 1871. J