ULNAE ARTERY. 292 d. The 2)osterior carped artery runs beneath the extensor tendons, and joins the corresponding branch of the ulnar to form an arch; it also anastomoses with the anterior interosseous artery on the back of the wrist. e. Small muscular branches are also given off by the radial artery in its course down the forearm. The radial nerve, a branch of the musculo- Kadial Nerve. . , . . spiral, IS given off above the bend of the elbow, deep between the supinator radii longus and brachialis anticus; it descends on the outer side of the radial artery, covered by the supinator radii longus. In the upper third of the forearm the nerve is at some distance from the artery ; in the middle third it approaches nearer to it, lying to its outer side ; but in the lower third, the nerve leaves the artery, passes underneath the tendon of the supinator longus, perforates the fascia on the outer side of the forearm, and becomes subcutaneous. It then divides into two branches ; an outer, which supplies the skin of the ball of the thumb, and communicates with the musculo-cutaneous nerve; and an mTier, which generally supplies both sides of the dorsal aspects of the thumb, of the index and middle fingers, and of the radial side of the ring finger. ^ This artery, the larger of the two divisions of the brachial, comes off at the middle of the elbow, runs obliquely inwards along the ulnar side of the forearm to the wrist, passes over the annular ligament near the pisiform bone, and entering the palm, forms the superficial palmar arch, by inosculating with the superficialis volse. In the upper half of its course the artery describes a gentle curve with the concavity towards the radius, and lies deep beneath the superficial layer of muscles, namely, the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and flexor sublimis digitorum. It is also crossed in its upper part by the median nerve. In the lower part of its course it comes nearer the surface, and descends between the flexor sublimis and flexor carpi ulnaris, of which the tendon partially overlaps it at the wrist. The artery lies for a short distance on the brachialis anticus ; in the remainder of its course it lies on the flexor profundus digitorum.