MUSCLES OP THE BACK. 234 DISSECTION OF THE MUSCLES OF THE BACK. Those muscles of the back—namely, the trapezius, latissimus dorsi, levator anguli scapulae, and rhomboidei—which are concerned in the movements of the upper extremity, will be examined in the dissection of the arm. These, therefore, having been removed, we proceed to examine two muscles, named, from their appearance, serrati, which extend from the spine to the ribs. Serratus Pos- This muscle is situated beneath the rhomboidei. Ticus Superior. It is a thin flat muscle and arises from the lower part of the ligamentum nuchse,* from the spines of the last cervical, and two or three upper dorsal vertebrae, by a sheet-like aponeurosis which makes up nearly half the muscle : the fibres run obliquely downwards and outwards, and are inserted by four fleshy slips into the second, third, fourth, and fifth ribs beyond their angles. Its action is to raise these ribs, and therefore to assist in inspiration. Serratus Pos- This muscle is situated beneath the latissimus TICUS Interior. dorsi. It arises from the spines of the two last dorsal and two upper lumbar vertebrae by means of the lumbar aponeurosis. It ascends obliquely outwards, and is inserted by four fleshy slips into the four lower ribs, external to their angles. Its action is to pull down these ribs, and therefore to assist in expiration The posterior serrati muscles are supplied by the posterior divisions of the spinal nerves. Vertebral The thin aponeurosis which separates the Aponeurosis. muscles of the upper extremity from those of the back is called vertebral aponeurosis. Superiorly, it is continued beneath the serratus posticus superior; inferiorly, it binds down the muscles contained in the vertebral groove, by stretching * The ligamentum nuchse is a rudiment of the great elastic ligament of quadru- peds (termed the pack wax) which supports the weight of the head. It proceeds from the spine of the occiput to the spines of all the cervical vertebrae except the atlas; otherwise it would interfere with the free rotation of the head.