542 POPLITEAL REGION". verging heads of the gastrocnemius: its shape is therefore tliat of a lozenge. It extends, above, as high as the lower third of the femur, and, below, as far as the upper sixth of the tibia. Above, it is bounded on the inner side by the semitendinosus, semimem- branosus, gracilis, and sartorius; on the outer side, by the biceps ; below, it is bounded on the inner side by the internal head of the gastrocnemius, on the outer, by the external head of this muscle and the plantaris. The space is occupied by a quantity of fat, which permits the easy flexion of the knee; and in this fat are found the popliteal vessels and nerves, in the following order:—nearest to the surface are the nerves; the artery lies close to the bone, the vein being superficial to the artery (fig. 125). Geeat Along the outer border of the semimembranosus, IscHiATic Nerve, and covered by the long head of the biceps, is the great ischiatic nerve, which, after giving off branches to the three great flexor muscles, divides, about the lower third of the thigh (higher or lower in different subjects), into two large nerves—the peroneal or external popliteal and the internal popliteal. The 'peroneal nerve runs close by the inner side of the tendon of the biceps,"^ and subsequently in the groove between this muscle and the outer head of the gastrocnemius, towards the head of the fibula. As it passes round the joint it gives off two arti- cular branches to the knee, which accompany the articular arteries, and a recurrent' articular branch, which runs with the recurrent tibial artery to the front of the knee. It supplies also two or three cutaneous branches to the posterior and outer sur- faces of the leg. The communicans peronei (fig. 125) is a small branch given ofi" as the nerve passes over the gastrocnemius; it joins the short saphenous which runs down the back of the calf, and behind the outer ankle, to supply the outer side of the foot and little toe. Below the head of the fibula we have already traced the divi * The nerve is, therefore, very liable to be injured in the operation of dividing the outer hamstring. In the diagram, the nerve is not near enough to the tendou, their connections having been severed.