DEPRESSORS OP THE OS HTOIDES. 31 which covers the apex of the lung, and thus to resist atmospheric pressure. The sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo- ACTIOK OF THE ^ J ' / Depressor hyoid muscles, co-operate in fixing the larynx and Muscles. qs hvoides, e. g. in sucking, or they depress the larynx after it has been raised in deglutition. Again, they depress it in the utterance of low notes. That the larynx is raised or depressed according to the height of the note may be ascertained by placing the finger upon it while singing through an octave. These depressor muscles are all supplied with nerves (fig. 8, p. 30) by the descend&ns noni (a branch of the ninth or hypo- glossal), and by the communicantes noni (branches of the second and third cervical nerves). The descendens noni sends a separate branch to each belly of the omo-hyoid. They are supplied with blood by the superior and inferior thyroid arteries. The thyro-hyoid arises from the oblique line HTHo HToiD. thyrold cartilage, and runs up to be inserted into the body and lialf the great cornu of the os hyoides. This muscle is a continuation of the sterno-thyroid. It is supplied by a special branch from the hypoglossal nerve. It covers the thyro-hyoid membrane and the superior laryngeal nerve and ai"tery, as they enter the larynx. ^ The sterno-mastoid muscle must now be cut Dissection transversely through the middle, and the two ends turned upwards and downwards, so that they may be replaced if necessary. This done, notice the strong layer of fascia which lies under the muscle and forms part of its sheath. It is attached to the angle of the jaw, thence descends over the large vessels of the neck, and is firmly connected to the clavicle and first rib. This fascia prevents matter coming to the surface, when suppuration takes place by the side of the pharynx. Eemove the fascia, and clean the various structures beneath the sterno-mastoid, taking care not to cut away the descendens noni and communicantes noni nerves, which cross the sheath of the common carotid. Dissect out the lymphatic glands which lie along the sheath of the large vessels,