256 PEOTOEALIS MAJOR. Near the sternum are found the anterior cutaneous branches or terminal filaments of the intercostal nerves. After piercing the pectoralis major, each nerve sends an inner filament to the skin over the sternum, and an outer larger one, which supplies the skin over the pectoral muscle. That of the 3d and 4th inter- costal supplies also the mammary gland. Branches of the internal mammary artery, for the supply of the mammary gland, accompany these nerves. During lactation they increase in size, ramifying tortuously over the surface of the gland. They are occasionally as large as the radial at the wrist. The lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves come out between the digitations of the serratus magnus on the side of the chest, and divide into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior branches curve round the free border of the pectoralis major and then supply the skin over that muscle and the mamma. The posterior branches supply the skin of the back of the chest. Dissect off the superficial fascia and fat with the mammary gland. Thus you will expose the strong deep fascia which is closely attached to the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles. It is continuous, above, with the fascia of the neck; below, with that of the arm. At the axilla it becomes denser, where it passes from the pectoral to the latissimus dorsi muscles. Keflect this fascia from the pectoralis major by dissecting parallel with the course of its fibres. The muscle having been fully exposed, observe its shape, the course of its fibres, their origin and insertion.* Pectorams The pectoralis major is the large triangular Majoe, muscle in the front of the chest. It arises from the sternal half of the clavicle, from the front of the sternum, from the cartilages of all the true ribs except the first and the last, * Sometimes we find a thin little muscle running perpendicularly in front of the inner part of the pectoralis major. This is the rectus sternalis or stcrnalis bfuionnn. It arises inferiorly by a tendinous expansion from the rectus abdominis, and is con- nected above to the tendon of the sterno-mastoid.