PEEITONEUM. 381 bladder, forming the recto-vesical pouch, and thence to the wall of the abdomen, along which it can be traced up to the diaphragm. In the female, it is reflected from the rectum on to the posterior wall of the vagina half an inch from the uterine extremity, consti- tuting the recto-vaginal pouchy and thence over all the back, but only about half-way down the front of the uterus, to the posterior wall of the bladder; after which its reflections are the same as in the male. Such-is the course of the peritoneum as seen in a longitudinal section, but there are lateral reflections which cannot be seen except in a transverse section: thus, from the great end of the stomach, two layers proceed to the spleen, forming the gastro- splenic omentum; from the transverse meso-colon it is reflected on either side over the ascending and descending colon. The following parts of the alimentary canal are only partially covered by peritoneum: namely., the descending and transverse portions of the duodenum, the caecum, the ascending and descend- ing colon (with exceptional cases), and the lower part of the rectum. Anatomists speak of the lesser cavity of the peritoneum as dis- tinguished from the greater. This lesser cavity, or sac of the omentum, is situated behind the stomach and the descending layers of the great omentum. If air be blown through the foramen of Winslow (which is the constricted communication between the greater and lesser cavities of the peritoneum), the lesser cavity becomes distended; it is bounded, in front, by the lesser omentum, the stomach, and the descending layers of the great omentum; behind, by the ascending layers of the great omentum, the colon, and the transverse meso-colon ; above, by the liver. Foramen OF This foramen is the narrow circular opening Winslow. between the greater and lesser cavities of the peritoneum, through which the two cavities communicate. It is situated behind the right edge of the gastro-hepatic, or lesser omentum. By passing your finger into it, you will find the foramen bounded above by the lobulus Spigelii of the liver; beloiv, by the commencement of the duodenum ; in front, by the lesser omentum; and behind, by the vena cava inferior.