CAVERNOUS SINUS. 16 downwards, the third nerve, the fourth, and the ophthalmic divi- sion of the fifth, in their course to the orbit. On its inner wall, are situated the internal carotid artery with the sixth nerve below and to its outer side. These structures are not actually within the sinus so as to be bathed by the blood, for they are separated from it by the lining membrane of the sinus. Eelative Posi- These nerves should be traced from the cavernous TioNs OF Nehves sinus, forwards, so as to see how they alter their IN Sphenoidal relative positions before entering the sphenoidal fissure, lissuRB. and, again, in their passage through it. Just before entering the sphenoidal fissure, the foui'th nerve (on its way to the orbital surface of the superior obHque) gets above the third, which here divides into an upper and a lower branch (both proceeding to the ocular surface of the muscles they supply) ; lower still, we have the frontal, lacrymal, and nasal divisions of the ophthalmic ; lowest of all is the sixth nerve on its way to the external rectus. In their passage through the sphenoidal fissure, we find that the fourth nerve, the frontal and lacrymal branches of the ophthalmic, lie at the top, on the same level, and in the above order from within outwards : thus they enter the orbit above the muscles. Lower, and in the follow- ing order from above downwards, come the upper division of the third, the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, the lower division of the third, and the sixth; all of which (with the ophthalmic vein) enter the orbit between the two origins of the rectus externus. The dissector will better remember the varying i-elations of these nerves, when he has learnt their respective destinations. CuBTBs OF THE After the removal of the cavernous sinus, a Carotid Artebt. good view is obtained of the curves, like the letter S, made by the carotid artery on the side of the pituitary fossa. The vessel enters the cranium at the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, makes its sigmoid curves, and then passes through the dura mater, between the anterior clinoid pro- cess and the optic nerve, where it gives off the ophthalmic artery. Within the cavernous sinus, small branches, arteries receptaculi, arise from the carotid and supply the pituitary body, and the walls of the sinus. A careful dissection would show a plexus of sympathetic nerves