SIDE VIE-W OF THE PELVIC VISCEEA. 442 bladder. It gives off the middle vesical artery ; and a still smaller one, the deferential, which accompanies the vas deferens. b. The inferior vesical artery ramifies on the under surface of the bladder, the vesiculge seminales and the prostate, and gives off' the middle hcemorrhoidal which supplies the rectum. c. The obturator artery runs along the side of the pelvis, below the corresponding nerve, to the upper part of the obturator fora- men, through which it passes to be distributed to. the muscles of the thigh. In the pelvis it lies between the peritoneum and the pelvic fascia, and gives off a-small branch to the iliacus internus, and another, the jsufticj which ramifies on the back of the pubes. The obturator artery does not, in all subjects, take the course above stated. It may arise from the external iliac near the crural arch, or by a short trunk in common with the epigastric* Under these circumstances, in order to reach the obturator foramen, it generally descends on the outer side of the femoral ring. Instances however, occasionally occur, where it makes a sweep round the inner side of the ring; so that three-fourths of the ring, or, what comes to the same thing, of the neck of a femoral hernia, would in such a case be surrounded by a large artery.-|- d. The ischiatic artery is smaller than the gluteal. It proceeds over the pyriformis and the sacral plexus, to the lower border of the great ischiatic notch, through which it passes out of the pelvis to the buttock, where it runs with the great ischiatic nerve. It gives off small muscular branches in the pelvis to the pyriformis and coccygeus. e. The pudic artery supplies the perineum, scrotum and penis. In the pelvis it usually lies abbve the ischiatic, and rests upon the * In most subjects a small branch of the obturator ascends behind the ramus of the pubes to inosculate with the epigastric. The A'ariety in which the obturator arises in common with the epigastric is but an unusual development of this branch. The branch derives additional interest from the fact, that after ligature of the external iliac it becomes greatly enlarged, and carries blood directly into the epigastric. See a case in 'Med. Chir. Trans.' vol. xx. 1836. f The Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital contains two examples of double femoral hernise in the male, with the obturator arising on each side from the epigastric. In three out of the four ruptures the obturator runs on the inner side of the mouth of the sac. (See Preparations 55, 69, Series ] 7.)