632 DISSECTION or THE EYE. round the margin of the cornea, forming a network arranged in loops. Lymphatics exist abundantly in the palpebral and sclerotic conjunctiva, and communicate, after becoming much reduced in size, with the irregular cell-spaces of the cornea. The human eye is nearly spherical, the antero-posterior and vertical diameters being equal, the transverse exceeding these by less than half a line. The convexity of the cornea varies in different persons, and at different periods of life ; this is one cause of the several degrees of near sight and far sight. Coats and Hu- The globe is composed of three coats, arranged HOURS OF THE onc witMu the other, which enclose certain transparent structures. The external coat, con- sisting of the sclerotic and cornea, is fibrous, thick, and strong. The second coat, consisting of the choroid, the iris, and the ciliary processes,is composed of blood-vessels,muscular tissue, and pigment- cells, and is very dark in colour. The third coat, called the retina, consists of the expansion of the optic nerve for the reception of the impression of the waves of. light. The bulk of the interior is filled with a transparent humour, called the vitreous body. Embedded in the front of this, and just behind the pupil, is the crystalline lens, for the purpose of concentrating the rays of light. In front of the lens is placed a moveable cm-tain, called the iris, to regulate the amount of light which shall be admitted through a central aperture, the pupil, to the fundus of the eye. The space in which the; iris is suspended is filled with a fluid, termed the aqueous hMmour. Sclerotic The sclerotic is the tough protecting coat of the Coat. eye, and consists of white fibres interlacing in all directions.* It covers about five-sixths of .the globe, the remaining •which annually shed the skin, the front of the cornea comes off with the rest of the external surface of the body. In the eel the surface of the cornea is often drawn off in the process of skinning. In some species of rodents which burrow under the ground like the mole, the eye is covered with hair, like other parts. * The-^elerotic coat of the eye in fishes is of extraordinary thickness and density ; and, in birds, this coat is further strengthened by a circle of bony plates, fourteen or fifteen in number.-arranged in a-series round the margin of the cornea. Similar plates are^found in some of the reptiles, and particularly in the fossil ichtbyosiuiri and plesiosauri.