PECTORALIS MAJOR. 257 and from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The fibres converge towards the arm, and terminate in a flat tendon, about two inches in breadth, which is inserted into the anterior margin of the bicipital groove of the humerus. The arrangement of its fibres, as well as the structme of its tendon, is peculiar. The lower fibres, which form the boundary of the axilla, are folded beneath the rest, and terminate upon the upper part of the tendon—i.e. nearer to the shoulder joint; the upper fibres, which arise from the clavicle, and are frequently separated from the main body of the muscle by a slight interval, descend in front of the lower, and terminate upon the lower part of the tendon. Con- sequently the upper and lower fibres of the muscle cross each other previously to their insertion. The object of this arrangement is to enable all the fibres to act simultaneously when the arm is extended. The upper part of the tendon sends off a fibrous prolongation, which binds down the long head of the biceps, and is attached to the great tuberosity of the humerus: another tendinous expansion is prolonged backwards to the tendon of the deltoid muscle; and a third passes downwards to be intimately connected with the fascia of the upper arm. The chief action of the pectoralis major is to draw the humerus towards the chest: as in placing the hand on the opposite shoulder, or in pulling an object towards the body. When the arm is raised and made the fixed point, the muscle assists in raising the trunk, as in climbing. Thus too, on emergency, it can act as an auxiliary muscle of inspiration. Between the pectoralis major and the deltoid, the great muscle covering the shoulder, is an interval varying in extent in different subjects, but always more marked towards the clavicle. It contains a small artery—the thoracica humeraria—and the cephalic vein, which ascends on the outer side of the arm, and empties itself into the axillary. This interval is the proper place to feel for the coracoid process. In doubtful injuries about the shoulder, this point of bone is a good landmark in helping the surgeon to arrire at a correct diagnosis. S