25 TB,IANGLES OP THE NECK. upper, a middle, and a lower. The upper sterno-mastoid artery, a branch of the occipital, enters the muscle with the n. accessorius, close to the mastoid process of the temporal bone; the middle mastoid is a branch of the superior thyroid, and enters the under surface of the muscle, crossing- over the common carotid on a level with the thyroid cartilage; the lower mastoid is a branch of the supra-scapular, and supplies the clavicular portion of the muscle, close to its origin. The sterno-mastoid is supplied with nerves by the n. acces- sorius, and by branches from the deep cervical plexus; these branches come from the second and sometimes the third cervical nerves. Triangles of Anatomists avail themselves of the oblique THE Neck. direction of the sterno-mastoid muscle to divide the neck on each side into two great triangles, an anterior and a posterior (fig. 7). The base of the anterior triangle is formed by the jaw, its sides by the mesial line and the front border of the sterno-mastoid. The posterior has the clavicle for the base, while the sides are defined by the hind border of the sterno-mastoid, and the front border of the trapezius. The omo-hyoid muscle, which crosses the neck under the sterno-mastoid, subdivides these primary triangles into four smaller ones (fig. 7), of unequal size: an anterior superior, an anterior inferior, a posterior superior, and a posterior inferior. The direction of the omo-hyoid muscle renders their boundaries at once obvious. Contents of The fat and connective tissue must now be care- PosTEraoB fully removed from the posterior triangle. The Trian-gi.e. following muscles will be seen forming its floor, viz., beginning from above, the splenius capitis, the levator anguli scapulas, the scalenus medius and posticus, and a siaall portion of the serratus magnus. This triangle is subdivided into two unequal parts by the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid—an upper or occi- jjital and a lower or clavicular. In the occipital triangle, besides the muscles just mentioned (with the exception of the serratus magnus), are found the superficial branches of the cervical plexus,