POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. 656 distant. Here, being comparatively superficial, it may easily be tied. Immediately behind the internal malleolus, it lies between the tendons of the flexor longus digitonim on the inner side, and the flexor longus pollicis on the outer. It has two venae comites, which communicate at intervals. The posterior tibial nerve which accompanies the artery is at first on its inner side, then crosses over it, and for the greater part of its course lies external to the artery. Its branches are as follows : — a. Numerous muscular branches to the soleus and the deep muscles. h. The peroneal is a branch of considerable size; often as large as the posterior tibial. Arising about an inch below the division of the popliteal, it descends close to the inner side of the fibula, and then over the articulation between the tibia and fibula to the outer part of the os calcis, where it inosculates with the malleolar and plantar arteries. All down the leg it is embedded among the muscles: being covered, fii'st, by the soleus, afterwards by the flexor longus pollicis. To both these muscles, to the latter especially, it sends numerous branches, and just above the ankle it gives off a constant one—the anterior peroneal—which passes through the interosseous membrane to the under aspect of the peroneus tertius, then runs in front of the tibio-fibular articulation, and inosculates with the other malleolar and tarsal arteries. The peroneal supplies the nutrient artery of the fibula, and, about an inch above the os calcis, sends off a transverse commmiicating branch, which inosculates with the posterior tibial artery under the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. c. The nutrient arteiy of the tibia. PosTEBioB This is the continuation of the popliteal. It TiBiAi, Nerve. descends close to its corresponding artery, and, behind the inner ankle, divides into the external and internal plantar nerves. In the first part of its course the nerve lies super- ficial to the artery, and rather to its inner side ; but lower down the nerve crosses the artery, and passes to its outer side. It sup- plies branches to the three deep-seated muscles, and a cutaneous branch— calcaneo-plantar—to the sole of the foot.