188 MECHANISM OP DEGLUTITION. The descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary artery, and the palatine nerves from the superior maxillary, may be traced along each side of the roof of the mouth. The ramifications of these arteries and nerves supply the soft as well as the hard palate. Mechanism of With the anatomy of the parts fresh in your Deglutition. mind, consider for a moment the mechanism of deglutition. The food duly masticated, is collected into a mass upon the back of the tongue ; the lower jaw is then closed to give a fixed point for the action of the muscles which raise the os hyoides and larynx, and the food is carried back into the pharynx by the pressure of the tongue against the palate, at the same time that the pharynx is elevated and expanded to receive it (by the stylo-pharyngei on each side).* The food, having reached the pharynx, is prevented from ascending into the nasal passages by the approximation of the posterior palatine arches, and the eleva- tion of the soft palate, which thus forms a horizontal temporary roof to the pharynx; it is prevented from returning into the mouth by the pressure of the retracted tongue, and the contraction of the anterior palatine arches : it cannot enter the larynx, because its upper opening is closed and protected by the falling of the epiglottis: f consequently, being forcibly compressed by the con- strictors of the pharynx, the food passes into the oesophagus, through which it is conveyed into the stomach by the undulatory contraction of that tube. The food passes with different degrees of rapidity through the different parts of its course; but most rapidly through the pharynx. The necessity of this is obvious, as the air-tube must be closed while the food passes over it, and the closure produces a temporary interruption to respiration. The progress of the food through the oesophagus is slow and gradual. * The larynx being also elevated and drawn forward, a greater space is thus left between it and the vertebrae for the distension of the pharynx. t This falling of the epiglottis is effected, not by special muscular agency, but by the nimultaneous elevation of the larynx and the retraction of the tongue. A perpen- dicular section through all the parts concerned is necessary to show the working of this mechanism,