HAMSTRING MUSCLES. 545 distributing branches on either side. On the outer side are seen a few cutaneous branches from the posterior division of the ex- ternal cutaneous nerve. The subcutaneous veins at the back of the thigh are very small: here they would be liable to pressure. But near the popliteal space there is a vein, called the short saphena. It comes up the back of the calf, and joins the popliteal vein after perforating the strong fascia covering the space. MoscuLAB Eespecting this, remark that its fibres run Fascia. chiefly in a transverse dkection, that it becomes stronger as it passes over the popliteal space, and that here it is connected with the tendons on either side. Eemove it, to examine the powerful muscles which bend the leg, called the hamstrings. Hamsteino There are three of these, and all arise by strong Muscles. tendons from the tuber ischii. One, the biceps, is inserted into the head of the fibula ; the other two—namely, the semitendinosus and semimembranosus—are inserted into the tibia. The divergence of these muscles towards their respective insertions ocicasions the space termed the popliteal, which is occu- pied by soft fat, the popliteal vessels, nerves, and lymphatic glands. This muscle has two origins, a lonsf and a short. Biceps. . & ^ & The long head arises, by a strong tendon, from the back part of the tuber ischii in common with the semi- tendinosus ; the short head, by fleshy fibres, from the outer lip of the linea aspera of the femur. This origin begins at the linea aspera, just below the insertion of the gluteus maximus, and con- tinues'nearly down to the external condyle. It joins the long head of the muscle, and both terminate on a common tendon, which is inserted into the head of the fibula, by two portions separated by the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint. It also gives off a strong expansion to the fascia of the leg. The tendon covers part of the external lateral ligament of the knee- joint, and a small bursa intervenes. The biceps is not only a flexor of the leg, but rotates the leg, when bent, outwards. It is the muscle which in chronic disease N N