248 LIGAMENTS OF THE SPINE. fact that a man becomes shorter after standing for some hours; and that he regains his usual height after rest. The diiference between the morn- ing and evening stature amounts to more than half an inch. It also explains the fact that a permanent lateral curvature of the spine may be produced (especially in the young) by the habitual pi-actice of leaning to this or that side. Experience proves that the cause of late- ral curvature depends more frequently upon some alteration in the struc- ture of the fibro-cartilages than upon the bones. From an examination of the bodies of one hundred and thirty-four individuals with crooked spines, it was concluded that, in two-thirds, the bones were peiiectly healthy ; that the most frequent cause of curvature resided in the inver- tebral substances, these being, on the concave side of the curve, almost absorbed, and, on the convex side, preternaturally developed. As might be expected in these cases, the muscles on the convex side become lengthened, and degenerate in structure.* LiGAMBNTUM Thls Hgameiit is a thin fibrous septum inter- NucHiE. mingled with elastic tissue, which extends from the spinous processes of the six lower cervical vertebrae to the external occipital protuberance. It forms an intermuscular septum down the back of the neck, and may be regarded as the continua- tion upwards of the supra-spinous ligament. Capsular Each joint between the articular processes has LiGAiMENTs. a capsular ligament and a synovial membrane. The surfaces of the bones are crusted with cartilage. Intbktrans- These are thin bands of fibres which pass be- VERSB Ligaments, tween the transverse processes of the vertebrae. They are rudimentary in the cervical region, and are sometimes absent. MoTEiiENTs OF Though but little movement is permitted be- THE Spine. tween any two vertebrae (the atlas and axis ex- cepted), yet the collective motion between them all is considerable. The spine can be bent forwards, backwards, or on either side; it also admits of slight rotation. In consequence of the elasticity of the intervertebral cartilages and the ligamenta subflava, it returns spontaneously to its natural curve of rest like an elastic bow. Its mobility is greatest in the cervical region, on account of * On this subject see ' Hildebrandt's Anatomie,' B. ii. b. 155.