DISSECTION OF THE MALE PERINEUM. 424 2. By elongating the penis, we are much more likely to hit off the proper opening through the ligament. 3. When, in retention of urine, the urethra gives way antenor to this ligament, it is this which prevents the urine from travel- ling into the pelvis. Its connection with the superficial perineal fascia prevents the urine from getting into the ischio-rectal fossae: nor can the urine make its way into the thighs. The only outlet for it is into the connective tissue of the scrotum and penis. 4. When suppuration or extravasation of urine takes place behind the ligament, the pus is pent up and should be speedily let out; if not, it may find its way into the connective tissue of the pelvis, and may burst into the urethra or the rectum. 5. The ligament is partially cut through in lithotomy. Parts ditided parts divided in the lateral operation of IN Lateeax lithotomy are : the skin, the superficial fascia, the Lithotomy. transverse perineal muscle vessels and nerve, the inferior hsemorrhoidal vessels and nerves, the inferior fibres of the accelerator urinse, the anterior fibres of the levator ani, the com- pressor urethrse, the triangular ligament (anterior layer), the membranous and prostatic parts of the urethra, and a small portion of the prostate. Paets to be The incision in lateral lithotomy should not be AVOIDED. made too far forwards, for fear of wounding the artery of the bulb; nor too far inwards, for fear of injm-ing the rectum; nor too far outwards, for fear of cutting the pudic artery. The anterior layer of the triangular ligament St rtictdres »j ^ BETWEEN THE ^ust uow be cut away to see what lies between its Layers of the two layers. These parts are shown in fig. 92 ; Triangular namely : 1, the membranous part of the urethra, iGAMBNT. surrounded by, 2, the compressor m-ethrae muscle ; 3, Cowper's glands ; 4, the pudic artery and its three terminal branches, i.e. the artery of the bulb, the artery of the crus, and the dorsal artery of the penis ; 5, the pudic nerve and its branches. To obtain the best perineal view of the com- DissKCTioN. pressor urethrse muscle, cut through the spongy