669 DISSECTION OP THE TESTIS. the gpermatic axtery, and held together by delicate areolar tissue. It covers the inner surface of the tunica albuginea, and gives off branches, which nm with the fibrous septa into the interior of the gland. Mix\TjTE When the testis is cut into, its interior looks Structure. soft and pulpy and of a reddish-grey colour. It consists of a multitude of minute convoluted tubes—tubuli seminiferi—which have each a length of about two feet and a quarter, and a diameter averaging y-i-g- of an inch. For economy of space they are arranged in lobules, between three and five hundred * in number, of various sizes, and contained in the compartments formed by the fibrous septa proceeding from the mediastinum testis. A few only of these lobules are shown in the diagram. Though disposed in lobules, still they communicate with each other, and thus form one large network of tubes. The tubuli are lined with flattened cells of several strata in thickness, resting upon a basement membrane. They commence either by anastomosing loops, or by blind dilated extremities, and after pursuing a convoluted course, unite into from thirty to fifty straight vessels (yasa recta), which penetrate the medias- tinum testis, and there form a plexus of seminal tubes, termed the rete testis. This lies along the back of the gland. From the upper part of the rete, the secretion is conveyed to the upper part of the epididymis by twelve to fifteen tubes, termed vasa efferentia, which perforate the tunica albuginea in their course to the globus major. These, after forming a number of coils, termed com vasculosi,\ collectively constitute the globus major of the epididymis. At the globus major the smaller tubes terminate in a single duct—the canal of the epididymis, which in its descent describes an extremely tortuous coil, constituting the body and globus minor of the epididymis. The length of the canal of the epididymis is, in its natural condition, about three inches, but when unravelled * The larger estimate is that by Kranse; the smaller that by Berres. t The coni vasculosi are about ^ of an inch in diameter, and about six to eight lines long ; when unravelled they attain a length of six to eight inches.