620 DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. ing from the cord are loosely surrounded by a sheath of the arach- noid ; but this only accompanies them as far as the dura mater, and is then reflected upon that membrane. ^ The pia mater of the cord is the protectiugf PiA Mater. , ^ , . , . , . . • membrane, which immediately invests it. It is very different in structure from that of the brain, since it does not constitute a membrane in which the arteries break up, but serves rather to support and strengthen the cord : consequently, it is much less vascular, more fibrous in its structure, and more adherent to the substance of the cord. It sends down thin folds into the anterior and posterior median fissures of the cord, and is prolonged upon the spinal nerves, forming their investing mem- brane or ' neurilemma.' Over the anterior median fissure may be traced a well-marked fibrous band, formed by the pia mater, which has been named the linea splendens.- Below the level of the second lumbar vertebra, the pia mater is continued as a slender filament, called the filum terminate, or central ligament, which runs down in the middle of the bundle of nerves into which the spinal cord breaks up. About the level of the third sacral vertebra it becomes continuous with the dura mater of the cord, and is then prolonged as far as the base of the coccyx. The spine of the third sacral vertebra marks the level to which the cerebro-spinal fluid descends in the vertebral canal. LiGAMBNTUM From each side of the cord along its whole Dbkticuxatum. length there runs a fibrous band, ligamentum denticulatum, which gives off a series of processes to steady and support the cord. They are triangular, their bases being attached to the cord, and their points to the inside of the dura mater (fig. 156). There are from eighteen to twenty-two of them on each side, and they lie between the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The first process passes between the vertebral artery and the hypoglossal nerve; the last is found at the ter- mination of the cord. It is composed of fibrous tissue, and is nervous axis generally. See some remarks very much to the point, hy Sir George BurrowB, ' On Diseases of the Cerebral Circulation,' p. 60, 1846.