hunter's canal. 619 which stretches from the adductor longus and magnus over to the vastus internus. This, which forms part of Hunter's canal, will be examined presently. At the crural arch the anterior crural nerve is placed on the outer side of the artery (separated from it by a few fibres of the psoas), and the femoral vein on the inner side: as the vein descends, it gradually passes behind the artery. Artery and vein lie close together, and are enclosed in a common sheath. Hunteb's In the middle third of the thigh, the femoral Canai. artery is contained in a tendinous canal* beneath the sartorius, called Hunter's canal. This canal at its upper part is rather indistinct; but it gradually becomes stronger to- wards the opening in the tendon of the ad- Fig. 120. ductor magnus. Its boundaries are formed by the tendons of the muscles between which the artery runs. On the inner side are the tendons of the adductor longus and magnus; on the outer side is the tendon of the vastus internus : in front the canal is completed by T , ^ SECTION THEOUGH an aponeurotic expansion thrown obliquely hunter's canal. across from the adductors to the vastus inter- i- vastus internus. 2. Adductor longus. nUS, as shown in fig. 120. In a horizontal section 3. Aponeurosis throw across the canal appears triangular. The adaptation of this shape to the exigencies of the case is manifest when we reflect that the muscles keep the sides of tlie triangle always tight, and thereby prevent any compression of the vessels. Hunter's canal contains, -not only the femoral artery and vein, but the internal saphenous nerve. The vein lies behind and to the outer side; the nerve crosses from the outer to the inner side of the artery. A ligature can be placed around the artery, in the upper third of the thigh, with comparative facility; not so easily in the middle third. The artery is tied for-an aneurysm- of the popliteal, * Called Hunter's canal, because it was in this part of its course that Jolin Hunter first tied the femoral artery for aneurysm of the popliteal, in St. George's Hos- pital, A.D. 1785. The particulars of this interesting case are published in the 'Trans, for the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge.'