BRANCHES OF AXILLARY PLEXUS. 269 The axillary plexus gives off some branches above the clavicle, which were dissected with the neck (p. 72). Below the clavicle, it gives off the following :— From the outer cord proceed an anterior thoracic branch, the musculo-ciitaneoiis, and the outer head of the median ; from the inner cord proceed the inner anterior thoracic nerve, the inner head of the median, the ulnar, the internal cutaneous, and the lesser internal cutaneous ; from the 'posterior cord proceed the three sub- scapular nerves, the circumflex and the musculo-spiral. The anterior thoracic nerves have been described (p. 260). SuBscAPULAK Thc tkrce subscapular nerves are found on the Neetes. surface of the subscapularis. They come from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus, and supply, respectively, the latissimus dorsi, teres major, and subscapularis. The nerve for the latissimus dorsi {long subscapular nerve) runs with the an- terior branch of the subscapular artery to the lower border of the muscle. The nerve for the teres major is either a branch of the pre- ceding, or comes separately from the posterior cord. It lies nearer to the humerus than the long subscapular. The nerve of the subscapularis arises from the posterior cord higher than the others, and enters the muscle not far from its upper border in company with a small artery. CiEcuMFLEx The circumflex nerve accompanies the posterior Nerve. cvrcumfiex artery. This large nerve comes from the posterior cord, and, after giving a small filament to the shoulder- joint, passes, with its companion artery, through the quadrilateral space (p. 266) to the under surface of the deltoid. Here the nerve divides into an upper and a lower branch. The upper supplies the anterior part of the deltoid and the skin over it; the lower supplies the back part of the deltoid, and gives the nerve to the teres minor,* upon which nerve sometimes a little gangliform swell- ing can be seen. After furnishing these muscular branches, the nerve turns round the posterior border of the deltoid, and diverges * This branch to the teres minor is said to be constant in all mammalia that have been examined in reference to this point.