Pridham on Asthma, 8 Piircell on Cancer, 13 Radford's Ca;sarian Section, 5 Ranisbotham's Obstetrics, 6 Reynolds' (J. J.) Diseases of Women, 6 Notes on Midwifery, 6 Reynolds' (J. R.) Clinical Electricity, 10 Roberts' (C.) Manual of Anthropometry, 5 Roberts' (D. Lloyd) Midwifery, 5 Ross's Diseases of the Nervous System, g Roth on Dress : Its Sanitary Aspect, 5 Roussel's Transfusion of Blood, 8 Routh's Lifant Feeding, 6 Royle and Harley's Materia Medica, 7 Rutherford's Practical Histology, 4 Sanderson's Physiological Handbook, 4 Sansom's Diseases of the Heart, g Antiseptic System, g Savage on the Female Pelvic Organs, 6 , Sayre's Orthopaedic Surgery, 11 Schroeder's Manual of Midwifery, 6 Sewill's Dental Anatomy, 13 Sheppard on Madness, 5 Sibson's Medical Anatomy, 3 Sieveking's Life Assurance, 14 Smith's (E.) Wasting Diseases of Children, 6 Clinical Studies, 6 Smith's (Henry) Surgery of the Rectum, 13 Smith's (Heywood) Dysmenorrhea, 6 Gynaecology, 6 Smith (Priestley) on Glaucoma, 12 Smith (W. R.) on Nursing, 6 Sparks on the Riviera, 10 Squire's Companion to the Pharmacopoeia, 7 Pharmacopoeias of London Hospitals, 7 Stille and Maisch's National Dispensatory, 7 Stocken's Dental Materia Medica, 13 Sullivan's Tropical Diseases, 7 Swain's Surgical Emergencies, 10 Swayne's Obstetric Aphorisms, 6 Taft's Operative Dentistry, 12 Taylor's Medical Jurisprudence, 4 Index—cfiitiimed. Taylor's Poisons in relation to Medical Jurisprudence, 4 Teale's Dangers to Health, 5 Thomas on Earand Throat Diseases, 12 Thorapson's(Sir H.) Calculous Disease, 13 Diseases of the Urinary Organs, 13 —■ Diseases of the Prostate, 13 Lithotomy and Lithotrity, 13 Thompson's (Dr. H.) Clinical Lectures, 8 Thornton on Tracheotomy, 12 Thorowgood on Asthma, 8 on Materia Medica, 7 'Thudichum's Pathology of the Urine, 14 Tibbits' Medical and Surgical Electricity, 10 Map of Motor Points, 10 Tilt's Change of Life, 6 Uterine Therapeutics, 6 Tomes' (C. S.) Dental Anatomy, 12 (J. & C. S.) Dental Surgery, 12 VanBuren on the Genito-Urinary Organs, 14 Veitch's Handbook for Nurses, 7 Virchow's Post-mortem Examinations, 4 WagstalTe's Human Osteology, 3 Walker's Ophthalmology, 12 Walton's Diseases of the Eye, 11 Waring's Indian Bazaar Medicines, 7 Practical Therapeutics, 7 Warner's Guide to Medical Case-Taking, 8 Waters' (A. T. H.) Diseases of the Chest, 8 Waters (J. H.) on Fits, g Wells (Spencer) on the Ovaries, 6 West and Duncan's Diseases of Women, 5 Whistler's Syphilis of the Larynx, 12 Whitehead's Climate of the Underclilf, 10 Whittaker's Primer on the Urine, 14 Wilks' Diseases of the Nervous System, g Wilks and Moxon's Pathological Anatomy, 4 Wilson's (E.) Anatomists' Vade-Mecum, 3 Lectures on Dermatology, 13 Wilson's (G.) Handbook of Hygiene, 5 Healthy Life and Dwellings, 5 Wilson's (W. S.) Ocean as a Health-Resort, 10 Woodman and Tidy's Forensic Medicine, 4 The following CATALOGUES issued by J. & A. Churchill will be forwarded post free on application :— A. J. & A. ChurchilVs General List of more than 600 works on Anatomy, Physiology, Hygieiie, Midwifery, Materia Medica, Medicine, Surgery, Chemistry, Botany, &c. &c., with a coinplete Index to their Subjects, for easy reference. N.B.—This List includes B, C, & D. B. Selection from J. & A. Chtcrchill's General List, comprising all recent Works published by them on the Art and Science of Medicine. C. J. & A. Churchill's Catalogue of Text Books specially arranged for Students. D. A selected and descriptive List of J. & A. ChurchilVs Works 07i Chemistry, Materia Medica, Pharmacy, Botany, Plwtography, Zoology, the Microscope, atid other branches of Science. E. The Half-yearly IJst of New Works and New Editio7is published by J. & A. Churchill during the previous six months, together with Particula?'s of the Periodicals issued frojn. their House. [Sent in January and July of each year to every Medical Practitioner in the United Kingdom whose name and address can be ascertained. A large number are also sent to the United States of America, Continental Europe, India, and the Colonies. ] •T. & A. CHURCHILL have a special arrangement with Mr. PRESLEY BLAKISTON, of Philadelphia, who acts as their Agent for the United States of America, keeping most of their books in Stock and reprinting others on Terms advantageous to Authors. Many of the Works in this Catalogue may therefore lae easily obtained in America. LONDON: NEW BURLINGTON STREET.