PELVIC VISCERA IN THE FEMALE. 4G9 . The nerves of the uterus enlarge during pregnancy like the arteries. Surgically speaking,. the os uteri may be said to have no nerves; for it is- insensible to the cautery and to the knife. The lymphatics oi the uterus are small in its unimpregpated state, hut greatly increase in size when it is gravid. Those from the fundus and the ovaries proceed with the ovarian vessels to the lumbar glands j thus explaining the affection of these glands in ovarian disease. Those from, the body and the.lower part of the uterus accompany the uterine arteries, and join the glands in the pelvis ; some, however, run with- the round ligament to the groin; hence, in certain conditions of the uterus the inguinal glands may be affected. . The uterus, vagina, ovaries, and Fallopian tubes SXEUCTUfiB OF ' O 5 7 X THE Vagina, should now be collectively removed from the pelvis Uterus, Otaries, for the purpose of examining their internal struc- AND Fallopian ture TlJ3ES The vagina having ali'eady been laid open (p. 466), we observe that it is lined by a mucous membrane of a pale rose colour ; and that it is rough and furrowed, especially near the orifice. Two - ridges, columnce rugarum, run one alohg its anterior, another along its posterior wall. From either side of these proceed a series of transverse ridges—rugcB—with rough, jagged margins directed forwards. . They are well marked in virgins, but repeated parturition and increasing age gradually smooth them down. The use of the vaginal rugas is to excite the sensibility of the gians in coition. They themselves also possess keen sensibility, being richly endowed with papillae. The. mucous membrane is provided with numerous papillae, conical and filiform, and covered with a thick lining of squamous epithelium. In the submucous tissue is an abundant supply of muciparous glands, which increase in.numbei^ and size towards the uterus. The chief strength of the vagina depends upon a fibro-cellular coat, about one-twelfth of an inch in thickness. . If this coat be minutely injected, we find that it is composed mainly of the inos- culations of blood-vessels, so much so that by some it is. regarded