DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 6i6 its surface is marked by prominent ridges, which correspond with the intervals between the ciliary processes (fig. 164). It assists in maintaining the lens in its proper position, and is firmly connected with its capsule. Canal of If the transparent membrane between the zone of Zinn and the margin of the lens be carefully punctured, and the point of a small blow-pipe gently introduced, and air or fluid injected, we may succeed in inflating a canal which encircles the lens : this is the canal of Petit, or ' canal godronne' (fig. 164). This canal is usually described as formed by the separation of the hyaloid membrane into two layers; the anterior —the zone of Zinn—being continued forwards in front of the lens, the posterior passing behind it. Ceystalxine The crystalline lens (fig. 161) is a perfectly ^^^s- translucent solid body, situated immediately be- hind the pupil, and partly embedded in the vitreous body. It is convex on both sides, but more so behind. In early life it is nearly spherical and "Soft, but it becomes more flattened, firmer, and amber-coloured with advancing age. In the adult its transverse diameter is about one-third of an inch; its antero-posterior, one- fifth of an inch. The lens is surrounded by a capsule equally translucent as itself. The capsule is brittle, and is composed of a structure similar to the elastic layer of the cornea. It is four times thicker in front than behind, as might be expected, for the sake of more effective support. No vascular connection whatever exists between the lens and its capsule.^ The lens protrudes directly the capsule is sufficiently opened. Minute Stkuc- The minute structure of the lens can only be TUKE or THE made out after being hardened. It is soft, almost gelatinous in consistence outside, but each suc- * Tlie vessel of the capsule of the lens is derived from the arteria centralis retinae, and in mammalia can only be injected in the fcetal state. In the reptilia, however, the posterior layer of the capsnle is permanently vascular. This small artery passes forwards througla the canal of Stilling to the posterior part of the capsule of the lens, on which it radiates into numerous small branches, communicating with branches in the iris and pupillary membrane.