611 DISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. reflected. It is about the size of a cherry-stone, and has two white peduncles or crura, which extend forwards, one on the inner side of each optic thalamus, and terminate by joining the anterior crura of the fornix. These crura are connected together behind, and with the front of the posterior commissure. In its interior it contains, besides some viscid fluid, more or less gritty matter, consisting of phosphate and carbonate of lime. Although the pineal body is found in all mammalia, birds, and reptiles, in the same typical position, its functions are entirely unknown. Corpora Quad- These are four eminences, situated, two on each RiGEMiNA. side, behind the pineal body, and are separated from each other by a crucial depression. Laterally, they are con- nected with the optic thalami and crura cerebri, and are placed above the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum. Though white on the surface, they contain grey matter in the interior for the purpose of giving origin to the optic tract. A more appropriate term for them would be the ' optic lobes,' instead of ' nates and testes,' handed down from the old anatomists. The nates, the more anterior, are rather darker and larger than the testes : and from both proceed outwards two flat white cords, the anterior and posterior brachia. The anterior proceeds to the optic tract, optic thalamus and corpus geniculatum externum, the posterior to the crus cerebri and corpus geniculatum internum.* Processus a Ce- By gently drawing back the overlapping cere- RKBELi-o AD Cere- bellum, two broad white cords are seen, which pass backwards, diverging from each other, from the corpora quadrigemina to the cerebellum (fig. 151). These are the processus a cerehello ad cerebrum, or superior peduncles of the cerebellum. They connect the cerebrum and cerebellum, * Eminences homologous to the corpora quadrigemina are found in all vertebrate animals; they are the meso-cephalic lobes;.they always give origin to the optic nerves, and their size bears a direct relation to the power of sight. They are rela- tively smaller in man than in any other animal. In birds there are only two eminences, and these are very large, especially in those far-seeing birds which fly high, as the eagle, falcon, vulture, &o., who require acute sight to discern their prey at a distance. n ii2