481 STRUCTURE OF THE SPLEEN. foiir inches long, and opens into the back of the descending part of the duodenum, after running very obliquely through the coats of the bowel. Exclusive of its partial peritoneal covering, the gall-bladder has two coats : the outer, consisting of connective tissue, contains involuntary muscular fibres, which run mainly in the long axis of the gall-bladder; the inner is the mucous coat. It is supplied with blood from the cystic branch of the right hepatic artery; its blood is returned by the cystic vein which opens into the vena portse ; its nerves are derived from the cystic branches of the hepatic plexus. The gall-bladder should now be laid open. Its mucous mem- brane is generally tinged yellow by bile, and gathered into lidges which, give it a honey-combed appearance. This appearance is most marked in the middle of the gall-bladder: in the de- pressions between the ridges may be seen, with a lens, numerous openings leading down to mucous follicles. It is covered by columnar epithelium, which secretes an abundance of viscid inucus. At the bend' of the neck of the gall-bladder, both its coats project very much into the interior, making the opening considerably narrower than it appears to be outside. In the cystic duct, the mucous membrane presents a series of folds, so arranged, one after the other, as to form a complete spiral valve. The pro- bable use of this is to prevent the too rapid flow of the bile. The gall-bladder appears to serve mainly as a reservoir for the bile, while digestion is not going on. The bile becomes during its sojourn in the gall-bladder very viscid and intensely bitter. Spleen '^^^ spleen is a very vascular sponge-like organ, and belongs to the class of ductless glands. It varies in size according to the amoimt of blood in it, fluctuating in weight, consistently with health, between five and ten ounces. It is of a reddish-blue colour. It is more or less elliptical in shape, and in its natural position is placed with its long axis nearly vertical. Its outer surface, which corresponds to the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs, is adapted to the diaphragm and ribs, and is smooth and convex; its inner, adapted to the great end of the I I