393 DUODENUM AND PANCREAS. of the right kidney as low as the third lumbar vertebra. Lastly, making another bend, it ascends obliquely across the spine to the left side of the second lumbar vertebra: here the intestine takes the name of jejunum. Thus the duodenum describes a horse- shoe curve, the concavity of which is directed towards the left side, and embraces the head of the pancreas. The first or ascending portion is about two inches' long, and is completely invested by peritoneum. It is comparatively free, so that the movements of the stomach may not be restricted. In front of it are the liver and gall-bladder. Behind it are the bile-duct and the hepatic vessels. The second or descending por- tion lies behind the transverse colon. Behind it are the common bile-duct and the pancreatic duct, which empty themselves into it either separately, or by a common opening. The descending portion is covered with peritoneum only on its anterior surface. The third or transverse portion is about four inches long, i^ situated behind the transverse meso-colon, just above the mesen- tery, and below the superior mesenteric artery and the pancreas. It lies upon the aorta and inferior vena cava. This portion, like the second, is only covered in front by peritoneum. Notice how firmly the duodenum is braced up on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra; and how the jejunum begins here by an abrupt downward bend. Pancreas, This large gland is situated immediately be- Eelations of. the stomach (p. 378.) It is of an elongated form, and of pinkish-white colour. It is placed transversely across the spine; its larger end, or ?tead, is embraced by the duodenum; its lesser end, or tail, is in contact with the spleen. The splenic artery and vein run along the upper border of the gland, and above it is the coeliac axis; the lower border is in relation with the transverse portion of the duodenum, from which it is sepa- rated by the superior mesenteric vessels. Posteriorly, the pan- creas rests upon the inferior vena cava, the left kidney, the left supra-renal capsule, the commencement of the vena portse, the aorta, the crura of the diaphragm, the superior mesenteric vessels and the inferior mesenteric vein. Its duct runs from left