PNEUMOGA.STEIC NEEVE AT THE BASE OP THE SKULL. 225 ment from the superior cervical ganglion. The tymjDanio nerve ascends through a minute canal in the bony ridge which separates the carotid from the jugular fossa to the inner wall of the tym- panum, where it terminates in six small filaments. Of these three are branches of distribution, and three of connection with other nerves. The branches of distribution are, one each to the fenestra rotunda and the fenestra ovalis, and one to the Eustachian tube. The connecting branches are two small filaments, which traverse a bony canal to join the plexus on the outer side of the carotid artery: the second ascends in front of the -fenestra ovalis and joins the great petrosal nerve in the hiatus Fallopii; the third takes nearly a similar course, and under the name of the lesser petrosal nerve proceeds along the front surface of the pars petrosa to the otic ganglion. Thus this tympanic branch is distributed to the mucous membrane of the tympanum and the Eustachian tube, and communicates with the spheno-palatine ganglion through the great petrosal nerve, and with the otic ganglion through the lesser petrosal. PNEtTMOGASTEic This ucrve leaves the cranium with the nervus Nebye. accessorius through a common canal in the dura mater, behind that for the glosso-pharyngeal. At its entrance into the canal, it is composed of a number of separate filaments which are soon collected into a single trunk. In the jugular foramen, the nerve presents a ganglionic enlargement, called the ganglion of the root of the pneumogastric. This ganglion* is about i of an inch in length. It is connected by filaments with the sympathetic through the superior cervical g-anglion, with the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal, with the facial, and with the spinal accessory by one or two branches. It gives off the auricular branch.f which is distributed to the pinna of the ear. This branch shortly after its origin is joined by a branch from the glosso-pharyngeal, and enters a minute foramen in the jugular fossa near the styloid process. It then proceeds through a canal in the bone, crosses the aquEeductus Fallopii, and passes to the * Arnold, ' Der Kopftlieil des Veget. Nervoii Systems.' Heidelberg, 1831. t Arnold's nerve. ' Q