579 DISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. SuBABACHNoiD Whersver the arachnoid membrane is separated Spaces AND Fluid, from the pia mater a serous fluid {cerebro-s'pinal) intervenes, contained in the meshes of a very delicate areolar tissue. The spaces between them are termed subarachnoid. They are very manifest in some places. For instance, there is one well-marked space in the longitudinal fissure, where the arachnoid does not descend to the bottom, but passes across the edge of the falx cerebri, a little above the corpus callosum. At the base of the brain, there are two of considerable size: one is situated between the anterior border of the pons Varolii and the commissure of the optic nerves; the other between the cere- bellum and the medulla oblongata. In the spinal cord, also, there is a considerable interval occupied by fluid between the arachnoid and the pia mater. The purpose of this fluid is, not only to fill up space, as fat does in other parts, but mechanically to protect the nervous centres from the violent shocks and vibrations to which they would otherwise be liable. The brain therefore may be said to be supported in a fluid, which insinuates itself into all the inequalities of the surface, and surrounds all the nerves as far as the foramina, through which they pass. This fluid sometimes escapes through the ear, in cases of fracture through the base of the skull, involving the meatus auditorius internus and the petrous portion of the temporal bone.* This, the immediate investing membrane of the Pia Matek. , brain, is extremely vascular, and composed of a minute network of blood-vessels held together by delicate connec- tive tissue. From its internal surface vessels pass off at right angles into tlie interior of the brain. The pia mater dips into the fissures between the convolutions, and penetrates into the ventricles for the supply of their interior, forming the velum interpositum and the choroid plexuses.] * The cerebro-spinal fluid varies in amount from two drachms to two ounces. It is a clear, limpid fluid, slightly alkaline, containing 98'5 parts of water, and 1-5 parts of solid matter. The cerebro-spinal fluid of the encephalon and that of the spinal cord communicate. t The arachnoid is said to be supplied with filaments from the motor root of the fifth, the facial And the spinal accessory nerves; the pia mater by the third, sixth facial, pneumogastric, spinal accessory and sympathetic nerves. p p 2