DISSECTION OF THE ORGAN OP HEARING. 661 It consists of a firm, fibrillated tissue, which is probably formed, at any rate on its upper surface, of a structure closely resembling the organ of Corti. The membrane which separates the scala vestibuli and the ductus cochlearis is a delicate almost structureless layer, the onem- hrane of Reissner. It appears to be composed of connective tissue, lined on its vestibular surface with flattened connective-tissue cells, and on its cochlear surface with squamous epithelium. At the point of attachment of the basilar membrane with the outer wall of the cochlea may be seen a triangular projection, which, formerly described as a muscle, {cochlears muscle), is now generally believed to be a collection of connective-tissue cells, and called the ligamentum spirale. Ohgak of The organ of Corti is a highly complex structure, CoBTi. placed on the upper surface of the basilar mem- brane, and the floor of the ductus cochlearis. The central part of the organ of Corti is formed by two sets of slanting rods—inner and outer rods of Corti* which rest against each other at their upper extremities, thus forming a triangular tunnel beneath them, filled in the recent state with endolymph. On the inner side of the inner rods is a single row of cells tipped with ciliated processes, called the inner hair-cells ; and on the outer side of the outer rods are three rows of similar cells, termed the outer hair-cells. The only remaining membrane to be described is the tectonal membrane, which lies above and parallel to the basilar membrane, but does not extend much more than half-way over it. It is con- nected on its inner side with the limbus spiralis, and is then con- tinued outwards, overlying and resting upon the rods of Corti, and ends in a free extremity. It is a strong, elastic membrane, distinctly fibrous, especially upon its inner and thicker part. The cochlear division of the auditory nerve (the vestibular has already been described,p. 659) is a short, thick branch, which breaks up into numerous filaments at the bottom of the meatus auditorius * The inner rods are stated to bo more numerous than the outer, in the proportion of 6,000 of the inner to ■lr,500 of the outer rods.