378 POSITION OF ABDOMINAL VISCEllA. the gall-bladder, in consequence of some obstruction to its duct, becomes unusually distended, and occasions a swelling below the margin of the ribs, which might be mistaken for an hepatic abscess.* The close proximity of the gall-bladder to the duo- denum and the transverse colon explains the occasional evacuation of gall-stones by ulceration into the- intestinal canal.f Situation of The spleen is deeply situated in the left hypo- THE Spleen. chondrium, between the stomach and the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. It is placed nearly vertically; its outer surface is smooth and convex, to correspond with the dia- phragm and the ribs; its inner-surface,, where its great vessels enter, is concave and connected to the great end'of the stomach by a peritoneal fold called the gastro-splenic omentum. Grenerally, too, the spleen is connected by a small peritoneal fold, the suspen- sory ligament, to the under surface of the diaphragm.;]: Below, the spleen is in contact with the kidney and the descending colon. Situation of This is the salivary gland of the abdomen. It THE Pancbeas. lies behind the stomach, transversely across the spine, about the level of the' first lumbar vertebra. Its right end or head is contained within the curve of the duodenum; its left end or tail extends as far as the spleen. The further connections and relations of the pancreas cannot at this stage of the dissection be satisfactorily seen. Situation of^ The kidneys are situated in the lumbar region, THE Kidneys. nearly opposite the two lower dorsal and the two upper lumbar vertebrse; the right, owing to the size of the liver, being a little lower than the left. They lie embedded in fat, partly upon, the quadratus lumborum, partly upon the psoas. In contact with the right- kidney, we have the liver, the second part of the duodenum, and the ascending colon; in contact with the left, are the spleen, the end of the pancreas, and the descending colon. * See cases in point recorded lay Andral/ Clin. MM.' torn, iv.; and Graves,' Dublin Hospital Eeport,' vol. iv. f See preparations in the Museum^ Ser.-16.- No. 84.. I Every now and then we find in the gastro-splenic omentum one or more little spleens in addition to the large one.