452 VESICUL^ SEMINALES. static urethra is increased; if the enlargement preponderate at one part more than another, then the canal will deviate more or less from its natural track and assume a more angular or a lateral curve according to the part enlarged. When the middle lobe becomes enlarged, there arises, at the neck of the bladder, a growth which will, in proportion to its size, more or less obstruct the passage of the urine. In the efforts made to introduce a catheter into the bladder, it sometimes happens that the end of the instrument is pushed through this hypertrophied lobe.* -VBsicrx^ The external appearance of these bodies has Seminaxes. been already described (p. 437). Eespecting their structure, we find that they have an external coat derived from the recto-vesical fascia; a middle or fibrous, strong and somewhat elastic, and an internal or mucous. The mucous membrane is lined by a scaly epithelium, and presents a honey-combed structure, not unlike that of the gall-bladder. Unstriped muscular fibres exist in the fibrous investment of the vesiculse seminales, for the purpose of expelling their contents, and are arranged partly transversely, on their posterior part, and partly longitudinally, in connection with the vesical muscular fibres. The duct emerges from the anterior part of the vesicula, and joins at an acute.angle the vas deferens behind the prostate, to form the common ejacula- tory duct (p. 435). The function of these bodies is twofold: they act as reservoirs for .the semen, and secrete a fluid accessory to generation. Cowper's The glands of Cowper have been examined in Glands. giffi^ in the dissection of the perineum (p. 425). They are placed close to the urethra, one on either side, imme- diately behind the bulb and between the two layers of the trian- gular ligament. They consist of a number of lobules united by firm connective tissue, and their collective size is somewhat larger than a pea. Each pours its secretion by a minute duct about an inch long into the bulbous part of the urethra. The use of these glands is analogous to that of the vesiculae seminales and the prostate: namely, to pour into the urethra a fluid acces- * See the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, Prep. 8 and 21, Series xxix.