238 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. This is a long narrow muscle, situated close to Spinalis Doesi. ,, . ■, the spines oi the dorsal vertebrae, and apparently a part of the longissimus dorsi; it is by some considered the inner- most column of the erector spinse. It arises by tendinous slips from the spines of the two lower dorsal and two upper lumbar vertebrae, and is inserted by little tendons into the spines of the six or eight upper dorsal vertebrae. The muscles of the spine hitherto examined are all longitudinal in their direction.. We now come to a series which run obliquely from the transverse to the spinous processes of the vertebrae. And first of the complexus. C MPLExus Th.i8 powerful muscle arises from the transverse processes of the six or seven upper dorsal and the last cervical vertebrae, also from the articular processes of four or five cervicaL vertebrae. It" is inserted between the two curved lines of the occiput, near the vertical crest. In the centre of the muscle there is generally a tendinous intersection. The muscle is perforated by the posterior branches of the second (the great occi- pital), third, and fourth cervical nerves. It is chiefly supplied by the great occipital., nerve.. Its action is to maintain the head erect. Cut transversely through the middle - of the complexus, and reflect it to see the arteria cervicalis profunda (p. 69), and the posterior branches of the cervical nerves. Transterso This is the mass of muscle which lies in the SPINALIS. vertebral groove after the reflection of the com- plexus and the erector spinae. It consists of a series of fibres which extend from the transverse and articular processes to the 'The longissimus dorsi, situated nearer the spine than the sacro-lumbalis, is in- serted (1) into the metapophysial spine of the lumbar diapophyses; (2) into the diapophyses of all the dorsal Yertebrse,. near the origin of the leratores costarum; (3) through the medium of the transversalis colli into the diapophyses of the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae; and (4) through the medium of the- trachelo-mastoid into the mastoid process, or the only element of a transverse process possessed by the parietal vertebra. In other words, its fibres extend from diapophysis to diapophysis, from the sacrum, upwards, to the parietal vertebra.'—' Homologies of the Human Skeltton^' by H. Coote, p. 7.6.