STRUCTUEE OF THE SMALL INTESTINE. 491 layer, which, however, becomes thinner towards the end of the ileum. It is connected to the mucous membrane by the submucous coat. Immediately beneath the mucous membrane there is a very thin layer of non-striped muscular fibre, termed musculans mucosce. When the small intestine is cut open from the upper end, we see that the mucous membrane is arranged in close transverse folds, called valvulce conniventes. These differ from other folds in the alimentary canal—e.g. in the oesophagus and stomach— in that they are not obliterated when the tube is distended. Each fold extends about one-half or two-thirds round the intestine ; but they are not all of equal size. They commence immediately below the opening of the biliary and pancreatic ducts, and are most developed in the duodenum and the upper part of the jejunum. Below this part of the tube they gradually decrease in size, and become wider apart, till they finally disappear near the middle of the ileum. The use of the valvulse conniventes is to increase the extent of surface for the absorption of chyle ; to prevent the food passing too rapidly through the intestine, and for secretion. If a portion of small intestine be washed and placed in water, the surface of the mucous membrane appears like the soft fur or pile upon velvet. This appearance is produced by small processes called villi. These are extremely vascular projections of the mucous membrane, about a fourth of a line in length, and are so numerous that a square line contains from forty to ninety of them.* Their size, however, and their number, bear a direct ratio to that of the valvulae conniventes. Under the microscope a villus is seen to consist of an outstanding process of the mucous mem- brane, covered by a layer of columnar epitlielium, which rests upon a basement membrane. Each villus is fm-nished with an artery which forms a network of inosculations in it, and then returns its blood by a single vein. Down its middle runs a lacteal or absorb- ing vessel, which commences in a closed end near the summit of the villus, where it is surrounded by a layer of pale non-striped muscular fibres proceeding from the muscularis mucosce. The * Krause estimates the total number of villi at four millions.