49 SUBMAXILLARY REGION. to the symphysis : thence its fibres radiate into the entire length of the tongue. It derives its nerves from the hypoglossal, and its blood from the lingual artery. Its action is various. The posterior fibres, by raising the os-hyoides and drawing forwards the base of the tongue, protrude the tongue out of the mouth ; the anterior draw the tongue back again. When every part of the muscle acts, it draws down the whole tongue, and is therefore one of the chief muscles concerned in suction. The stylo-glossus, a long and slender muscle, Sttlo-glossus. Q^j^gQg from the apex of the styloid process and the stylo-maxillary ligament, and is inserted along the side of the tongue. It runs outside the hyo-glossus nearly to the tip of the tongue, and blends with the fibres of this muscle, as well as with the palato-glossus. Its nerve comes from the hypoglossal. Its action is to retract the tongue. Hn-oaLossAL The hypoglossal, or ninth cranial nerve, is the NEHVE. motor nerve of the muscles of the tongue. It arises (by several roots) from the front of the medulla oblongata between the pyramid and the olive. After leaving the skull through the anterior condyloid foramen (by two fasciculi which subsequently blend), it lies beneath the internal jugular vein and internal carotid artery, where it is intimately connected with the lower ganglion of the pneumogastric nerve; it then comes tip between the artery and vein, and, immediately below the posterior belly of the digastricus, curves forwards over the occipital, the internal and external carotid and facial, arteries. Next it crosses the hyo-glossus muscle, and passing beneath the mylo-hyoid, divides into branches which supply the following muscles ; namely, the stylo-glossus, hyo-glossus, genio-hyo-glossus, lingualis, and the genio-hyoideus. As it curves Tound the occipital artery, the hypoglossal nerve sends the descendens noni to the depressors of the os hyoides (p. 30). It also sends a nerve to the thyro-hyoideus, which proceeds from it where it crosses over the external carotid, accompanied by the hyoid branch of the lingual artery. Near the anterior border E