THYROID BODY. 3f The thyroid body is closely connected, by areolar tissue, to the sides of the trachea, to the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. Hence it rises and falls with the larynx in deglutition. The thyroid varies in size in different individuals and at differ- ent periods of life. It is relatively larger in the child than the adult, in the female than the male. In old age it diminishes in size, becomes firmer, and occasionally contains earthy matter. By far the most notable considerations in respect to the thyroid body are the number, the large size, and the free inoscula- tions of its blood-vessels. The superior thyroid arteries come from the external carotid and enter the front surface of the apex of each lobe; the inferior thyroid come from the subclavian, and enter the under surface of the base. An artery, called the middle thyroid (thyroidea ima), is observed in some subjects ; it is given off from the arteria innominata, or the arch of the aorta, and ascends directly in front of the trachea to the isthmus. Its veins are equally large, and form a plexus upon it. The superior and inferior thyroid veins cross the common carotid, and open into the internal jugular. The middle thyroid veins, two in number, descend over the front of the trachea, communicate freely with each other, and terminate in the left brachio-cephalic vein. When you perform tracheotomy, bear in mind the size of these middle thyroid veins, and the possible existence of a middle thyroid artery. Its nerves are furnished by the laryngeal branch of the pneumo- gastric and the middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympa- thetic. They accompany the arteries. Structure of The thyroid body weighs from one to two ounces, THE Thyroid and belongs to the class of ductless glands, since no excretory duct has been discovered. It is invested by a thin covering of dense connective tissue which are instances in which the pyramid is douhle; and, lastly, we have seen a considerable portion of this thyroid substance lying over the crico-thyroid membrane, completely isokted from the rest of the organ. These varieties deserve notice, because any one portion of this structure may become enlarged independent of the rest, and occasion a bronchocele.