ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. 357 fleshy portion of the muscle, and working in the course of its fibres. Care must be taken not to remove any of its aponeurosis, which is very thin. The digitations of this muscle with the serratus maffnus and latissimus dorsi must also be made out. Muscles of the The abdominal muscles, three on each side, Abdominal are arranged in strata, named, after the direction of their fibres, the external obliqije, internal oblique, and transversalis. They terminate in front in strong aponeuroses, arranged so as to form a sheath for a broad muscle, called the rectus, which extends perpendicularly on each side the linea alba from the sternum to the pubes. ExTEENAL Ob- This muscle arises from the eight or nine lower ^la^- ribs, by as many pointed bundles, called digita- tions. The upper five of these interdigitate with similar bundles of the serratus magnus; the three lower correspond in like manner with the origin of the latissimus dorsi; but they cannot be seen unless the body be turned on the side. The upper part of this muscle descends obliquely forwards, and terminates in the apo- neurosis of the abdomen; the lower proceeds almost perpendicu- larly from the last ribs, and is inserted into the outer lip of more than the anterior half of the crest of the ilium."^ The aponeurosis of the external oblique increases in strength, breadth, and thickness, as it approaches the lower margin of the abdomen, this being the situation where the greater pressure of the viscera requires the most effective support. Its tendinous fibres take the same direction as the muscle, and form by their decussation in the middle line the linea alba, which extends from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes. Poupabt's Along the line of junction of the abdomen Ligament or ^j-ith the thigh, the aponeurosis extends from the Crural Arch. . . . . r n , anterior superior spine ot the ilium to the spine of the pubes, and forms an arch over the intermediate bony exca- vation (p. 358). This, which is termed the crural arch, or more * From its position and the direction of its fibres, it is manifest that the ex- ternal oblique represents, in the abdomen, the external intercostal muscles of the chest.