467 PELVIC VISCERA IN THE FEMALE. during life, feel the neck of the uterus projecting at the top of it; higher up, or lower down, according to circumstances. For in- stance, it is a little lower down in the erect than in the recumbent position ; again, in the early months of utero-gestation, the uterus descends a little into the vagina, so that this canal becomes shorter: the reverse holds good when the uterus begins to rise out of the pelvis. The axis of the vagina is slightly curved with the concavity upwards ; it corresponds with the axis of the outlet of the pelvis. The width of the vagina is not uniform throughout. The narrowest part is at the orifice ; it is also a little constricted round the neck of the uterus. The widest part is about the middle : here a transverse section through it presents the appearance of a 'broad horizontal fissure. If, therefore, you would insert the bivalve speculum with the least amount of pain, the blades of the speculum should be vertical when introduced into the orifice, and afterwards turned horizontally. The uterus is the hollow muscular organ which Uteeus. . . . „ . , receives the ovum, retains it for nme months to bring it to maturity, and then expels it by virtue of its muscular walls. Its situation and peritoneal connections have been de- scribed (p. 463). Its axis slants forwards, so that, upon the whole, the axis of the vagina and uterus describes a curve nearly parallel to the axis of the pelvis. The uterus, then, is so placed that it is ready to rise out of the pelvis into the abdomen after the embryo has attained a certain size. The uterus in the unimpregnated state is pyriform, or rather triangular with the angles rounded, and is somewhat flattened antero-posterioiiy. Its average size is about three inches long, two inches broad, and one inch thick, at the upper part; but there is variety in this respect, arising from age, the eifect of preg- nancies, and other causes. For convenience of description, the uterus is divided into the fundus, the body, and the cervix. The term, fundus is applied to the broadest part, which lies above the level of the Fallopian tubes (p. 464). The body is the central part, while the cervix is H H 2