SOFT PALATE. 185 Lf.vatob This muscle anses from the apex of the petrous r.\LATi. portion of the temporal bone and from the under part of the cai-tilage of the Eustachian tube. Its fibres spread out, and are inserted along the upper surface of the soft palate, meeting those of its fellow in the middle line (fig. 34). Its action is to raise the soft palate, so as to make it horizontal in deglutition. It is supplied by a nerve from the spheno-palatine ganglion. CiRccTMFLExus Thls muscle is situated between the internal okTe!tsobPalati. pterygoid m. and the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone. It arises from the scaphoid fossa of the sphenoid bone, and from the outer side of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. Thence it descends perpendicularly, ends in a tendon which turns round the hamular process, and expands into a broad aponeurosis, which is inserted into the horizontal plate of the palate bone, and is also connected to its fellow of the opposite side. It gives strength to the soft palate. A synovial membrane facilitates the play of the tendon round the hamular process. Its action is to draw down and tighten the soft palate, and, owing to its insertion into the palate bone, also to keep the Eustachian tube open. Its nerve is derived from the otic ganglion, and enters the muscle on its inner aspect. AzTGos OB This consists of two thin bundles of muscular Levator UvuLiE. fibres situated one on each side of the middle line. It arises from the aponeurosis of the palate and descends along the uvula nearly down to its extremity. It receives its nerve from the spheno-palatine ganglion. Pai,ato-glosstjs These muscles are contained within the arches AND Pai-ato- of the soft palate. The palato-glossus, within PHARYNGEus. ^]^g autcrior arch, proceeds from the anterior surface of the soft palate to the side of the tongue, and is lost in the stylo-glossus muscle. The palato-phai^ngeus, within the posterior arch, arises from the posterior border of the soft palate by two origins separated by the levator palati. As it descends its fibres spread out and, passing along the side of the pharynx, blend with the fibres of the inferior constrictor and the stylo-pharyngeus.