SUBMAXILLAET EEGION. 46 or the lower lip. It should be remembered also that there are lymphatic glands in the mesial line below the chin. Mtlo- The mylo-hyoideus arises from the mylo-hyoid HYoiDEus. ridge of the lower jaw, as far back as the last molar tooth. Its posterior fibres are inserted into the body of the OS hyoides, the anterior being attached to a median tendinous line, termed the rwplie. Thus the muscles of opposite sides form a muscular floor for the mouth. It is supplied with nerves by the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental; with blood by the submental a. The muscles of opposite sides con- jointly elevate the os hyoides and the floor of the mouth—as in deglutition. Sttlo-maxil- This is a layer of the deep cervical fascia, LABT Ligament. extending from the angle of the jaw to the styloid process. It is a broad sheet of fascia, and separates the submaxil- lary gland from the parotid. It is continuous with' the fascia covering the pharynx; this gives it a surgical interest, because it prevents accumulations of matter formed near the tonsils and upper part of the pharynx from coming to the surface. The remaining objects seen in the submaxillary triangle, namely, the parotid gland, the external carotid, the hypoglossal nerve, and the hyo-glossus muscle, will be described presently when they can be better seen. Your attention should now be directed to a piece of surgical anatomy, which will enable you readily to find and tie the lingual artery. It is this : A curved incision about two inches in length being made from the lesser cornu along the upper border of the great cornu of the OS hyoides, through the skin, the platysma, and the cervical fascia, you will come upon the lower edge of the submaxillary gland. Lift up the gland, which is easily done, and underneath it you will observe that the tendon of the digastricus makes two sides of a triangle, of which the base is formed by the hypoglossal nerve crossing the hyo-glossus m. Within this little triangle, cut transversely through the fibres of the hyo-glossus : under them is the lingual artery, lying on the middle constrictor. The first time you perform this operation on the dead subject, you will not