BRANCHES OP THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 08 subscapular, and with the posterior scapular arteiy. Near the notch, it is joined by the supra-scapular nerve, which runs through it. Tlie branches of this ai-tery are numerous but small, and are as follow : the inferior sterno-mastoid (p. 25); the supra-acromial, which anastomoses with the acromio-thoracic ai-tery; articular branches to the shoulder joint; the infra-spinous, which ramifies in the infra-spinous fossa; and the subscapular, which ramifies in the substance of the subscapularis muscle. 3. The posterior scapular (transversalis colK) artery, of which the normal origin is said to be from the thyroid axis, very frequently arises from the subclavian in the last part of its course. It is larger than the preceding artery, and runs tortuously across the side of the neck (higher than the supra-scapular), over the scalene muscles and the gi-eat nerves of the brachial plexus (sometimes between them), and disappeai's beneath the trapezius and the levator anguli scapulse to reach the superior angle of the scapula. It then runs beneath the rhomboid muscles, which it supplies, down to the inferior angle of the scapula, anastomosing freely with the terminations of the supra- and sub-scapular arteries. In the space between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius, the posterior scapular gives off the superficialis colli. This vessel proceeds tortuously across the posterior triangle of the neck to the under suiface of the trapezius, to which, with the levator anguli scapulae, it is principally distributed. The superficialis colli often comes direct from the thyroid axis. The veins corresponding to the supra-scapular and posterior scapular arteries terminate in the external jugular, sometimes in the subclavian. The inferior thyroid vein crosses in front of the common carotid artery, and joins the internal jugular. Inteekal This artery arises from the subclavian opposite Mammaby. to the thyroid axis. It enters the chest behind the subclavian vein, and descends behind the cartilages of the ribs, about half an inch from the sternum. Its further progress will be examined in the dissection of the chest (p. 121). The corresponding vein most frequently terminates in the brachio-oephalic. SuPEmoB This artery is given ofif by the subclavian behind Intekcostat.. the scalenus anticus on the right side, and to its inner side on the left, so that you must divide the muscle to see it. It enters the chest behind the pleura, to the outer side of the first