33 COMMON CAEOTID AETEET. deep fascia, the sternal portion of the sterno-mastoid, the sterno- hyoid, and thyroid muscles, and, on a level with the cricoid carti- lage, it is crossed by the omo-hyoid. Above this point the artery becomes more superficial, and is covered by the platysma, the cer- vical fascia, the middle sterno-mastoid artery, and only slightly overlapped by the sterno-mastoid. Lying upon the sheath of the artery, we find the descendens noni joined by the communicantes noni nerves. The sheath is crossed by three veins ; namely, the facial, the superior, and inferior* thyroid veins, which empty them- selves into the internal jugular. This is the general rule, and especial attention should be directed to it, because the veins are liable to be overlooked and injured in the operation of tying the carotid. To the inner side of the artery we find the trachea, the thyroid body, the recurrent laryngeal nerve, the inferior thyroid artery, the external laryngeal nerve, and the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. It is evidently easier to tie the common carotid above the omo-hyoid than below it. In the higher operation we make an incision (two and a half inches long) along the inner border of the sterno-mastoid, the centre of the incision being opposite the cricoid cartilage; we cut through the platysma and cervical fascia, draw aside the overlapping edge of the sterno-mastoid, and expose the sheath of the vessel. A small opening is then made on the inner side of the sheath large enough to admit the aneurysmal needle, and the vessel is tied, care being taken not to include the pneumo- gastric or descendens noni nerves in the ligature. In what re- -"-^ ^^^^ P^^^ course the left carotid SPBCTS THE Left differs from the right in the following parti- Cabotid diffees culars: FBOM THE Right. arises from the arch of the aorta, is there- fore longer and deeper seated than the right, and is covered by the first bone of the sternum. 2. It is crossed by the left brachio-cephalic vein. * The term 'inferior thyroid' vein is restricted in this manual to the vein which corresponds to the inferior thyroid artery. D