593 DISSECTION OP THE BEAIN. by the annedant gyH. The temporo-sphenoidal lobe is traversed by two parallel fissures, which divide it into a superior, middle, and inferior temporo-sphenoidal convolution. In front of the under aspect of this lobe, there is the uncinate or hippocampal convolution, which is continuous with the gyrus fornicatus. In this situation also we find two fissures, the hippocampal and the col- lateral, the former of which corresponds to the hippocampus major, the latter to the eminentia coUateralis. The remaining convolu- tions are seen on the median surface of the hemisphere, and com- prise the gyrus fornicatus, which courses round the corpus callosum; the cuneus, situated between the parieto-occipital and calcarine fissures; and the prcecuneus or quadrate lobe placed in front of the parieto-occipital fissure. NoMENCLATUEE ^ho scveral objects seen at the base of the brain OF THE Parts at in the middle line should now be examined, pro- theBase of the ceeding in order from the front (fig. 139, p. 580). In this description the cerebral nerves are omitted. These will be examined hereafter. In the middle line, dividing the frontal lobes, is the longitudinal fissure. By gently separating these lobes, we expose the corpus cal- losum, or the great transverse commissure which connects the two hemispheres of the cerebrum. Continued backwards and outwards on each side from the corpus callosum to the fissure of Sylvius is a white band, the peduncle of the corpus callosum. Extending from the corpus callosum to the optic commissure is a thin grey layer, the lamina cinerea. Between the frontal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes is the fissure of Sylvius, which lodges the middle cerebral artery. The optic commissure, formed by the union of the two optic tracts, is seen in the middle line behind the lamina cinerea. At the root of the fissure of Sylvius is the locus perforatus * anticus. Immediately behind the optic commissure is a slight prominence of grey matter, the tuber cinereum; from this de- scends a conical tube of reddish colour, the infundibulum, to the apex of which is attached the pituitary body. Behind the tuber * Called ' perforatus' from its being perforated by a number of blood-vessels for the supply of the corpus striatum. ' Q Q