626 DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL COED. the posterior roots of the spinal nerves to the cord, and are thence transmitted to the brain through the posterior columns and the grey matter of the cord. These impressions do not run up on the same side, for the fibres, immediately on entering the grey matter, cross over to the opposite side to reach the brain ; so that if the posterior column of the right side be divided, the left leg, and not the right, would be deprived of sensation. Motor impulses are conveyed along the antero-lateral columns and the grey matter in them, and carry the commands of the will from the brain to the muscles. The crossing of the motor fibres takes place in the medulla oblongata, at the decussation of the anterior pyramids, so that they run in the corresponding half of the cord as far as their point of decussation. Division, therefore, of one half of the cord below this point, causes paralysis of motion on the same side of the body. The cord is, moreover, concerned in the conduction of impressions to and from the vaso-motor centre of the medulla oblongata, which determines the varying conditions of the blood- vessels. The cord also transfers impressions; this is more manifest in disease than in health; a well-marked example of transference is, that pain is felt at the knee in cases of disease of the hip-joint. The spinal cord has probably no power of originating impressions, in other words, it is not automatic. MiiTOTE Strtjc- These are among the most complicated parts of TURE OF THE Me- ccutral ucrvous system. They contain white BULLA Oblongata nerve-matter intermixed. The white AND Pons " & j . , • Vauolii. matter consists, in part, of the contmuation up- wards of the longitudinal fibres of the cord ; in part, of horizontal fibres. Anteeioe The anterior columns of the cord (fig. 158), Pyramids. having reached the lower part of the medulla oblongata, are not continued straight through it, but diverge from each other, being pushed aside by the deep fibres of the lateral columns, which here cross each other, and form the de- cussation of the anterior pyramids. In their further progress the fibres of the anterior columns are arranged thus : some of them run up, and form the outer portion of their own pyramid : some ascend