1)ISSE0TI0N OF THE BRAIN. 588 the pons contains a considerable amount of grey matter, which is distributed between the transverse and longitudinal fibres. The pons, like the medulla oblongata, has an imperfect median septum, composed of horizontal fibres, some of which at its anterior border surround the crura cerebri. ^ The cerebrum in man is so much more de- veloped than the other parts of the encephalon that it completely overlies them, and forms by far the largest portion. It is oval in form, and convex on its external aspect. It is divided in the middle line into two symmetrical parts, termed the right and left hemispheres, by the deep longitudinal fissure, which is occupied by the falx cerebri (p. 7).* The cerebrum is composed of numerous parts—viz., of certain internal ganglionic masses, the corpora striata, optic thalami, and corpora quadri- FiQ. 14.2. gemina-; of commissural white fibres, the fornix, corpus callosum, and the com- missures of the third ventricle; of the pineal and pituitary bodies ; and, lastly, of the two lateral hemispheres, which overlie and conceal the parts previously men- tioned. The cerebrum rests upon the anterior and middle fossse of the base of the skull, and the tentorium cerebelli. There are DIAGRAM OF THE GENEHAL i i • i DiTisioKs OF THE BRAIN. threc surfaccs to each hemisphere : an 1,2,3. Anterior, middle, and poste- extcmal or couvcx ; an inner or median ; rior lobes of the cerebrum. _ 4. Cerebellum. and au inferior, interrupted by the nssure 5. Pons Varolii. o i • 6. Medulla oblongata. of SylviuS. By widely separating the two hemispheres at the longitudinal fissure (the brain being in its natural position), we discover that they are connected in the middle by the transverse white com- * Examples are occasionally met with, where the longitudinal fissure is not exactly in the middle lino, the consequence of which want of symmetry is, that one hemisphere is larger than the other. Bichat (' Recherches physiologiques sur la Vie etlaMort,' Paris, 1829) was of opinion that this anomaly exercised a deleterious influence on the intellect. It is remarkable that the examination of his own brain after death went to prove the error of his theory.