• MUSCLES OF THE FACE. 7-3 other muscles which converge from different parts of the face.* The cutaneous surface of the muscle is intimately connected with the lips and the surrounding skin ; the deep surface is separated from the mucous membrane by the labial glands and the coronary vessels. The orbicularis is the antagonist of all the muscles which move the lips. Upon a nice balance of their opposite actions depends the play and infinitely varied expression of the mouth.f Depressor This muscle arises broadly from the oblique Angot-i Oris. line of the lower jaw behind the foramen mentale, and is inserted narrowly into the angle of the mouth, interming- ling with the zygomatic muscles. It is an important muscle in the expression of sorrowful emotions. We see its action when children cry. T, This muscle arises from the oblique line of the Depressor _ ^ , , Labii Inferioris, lower jaw below the foramen mentale, and is tn- OR QuADRATus seHecl into the lower lip. It covers the vessels and nerves which emerge from the foramen. This muscle arises from the lower jaw, from the fossa below the Levator Menti ii'cisor teeth, and, passing down, is inserted into OR Levator Labii the skin of the chin. To see it, evert the lower Inferioris. lip and remove the mucous membrane on either side of the frgenum. There are two of them, one for each side. Their action is well seen when we shave the chin, or protrude the lower lip. * The orbicularis consists of two parts, an inner or labial part, and an outer or facial; the difference in appearance of the fibres being very marked. The labial part consists of pale thin fibres, forming more or less of the inner part of the orbicularis, and has no attachment to bone; the facial part is thinner but broader, and besides being connected with other muscles, is attached to bone thus :—in the upper lip by two fasciculi on each side, one to the septum nasi, the other to the alveolar border oppo- site the incisor teeth; in the lower lip by a single fasciculus to the lower jaw on each side opposite the canine tooth. f In strong muscular lips the upper part of the orbicularis) sends a small sub- cutaneous slip of muscle from each side along the septum nasi nearly to the apex. The interval between the two slips corresponds to the furrow which leads from the nose to the lip. This is the naso-labialis or depressor septi nariiim of Haller and Albintis,