136 PERICARDIUM. it, is the posterior. Of the objects in the posterior mediastinum, that which is nearest to the pericardium is the oesophagus. It should be remembered that the oesophagus is in close contact with the back of the pericardium and left auricle for nearly two inches ; this fact accounts for what is sometimes observed in cases of pericarditis where there is much effusion; namely, pain and difficulty in swallowing. The pericardium is a jfibro-serous membrane. Its fibrous layer, which constitutes its chief strength, is external. This layer is attached, below, to the central tendon and the adjoining muscular part of the diaphragm. Above, it forms eight sheaths for the great vessels at the base of the heart; namely, one for the vena cava superior, four for the pulmonary veins, two for the pulmonary arteries, and one for the aorta. The serous layer forms a shut sac. It lines the fibrous layer to which it is intimately attached, and is reflected over the great vessels and the heart. To see where the serous layer is reflected over the vessels, distend the pericardium with air. Thus you will find that this layer is reflected over the aorta as high as the origin of the arteria innominata. It is reflected over the front of the vena cava superior. The serous layer of the pericardium covers the large vessels to an extent greater than is generally imagined ; though the extent is not precisely similar in all bodies. The aorta and pulmonary artery are enclosed in a complete'sheath, two inches in length, so that these vessels are covered all round by the serous layer, except where they are in contact. Indeed you can pass your finger behind them both, through a foramen bounded, in front, by the two great vessels themselves, behind, by the upper part of the auricles, and above, by the right pulmonary artery. Again, the back of the aorta, where it lies on the auricles, is covered by the serous pericardium. The superior cava is covered all round, except behind, where it crosses the right pulmonary artery. The inferior cava within tlie pericardium is partly covered in front. The left pulmonary veins are covered nearly all round; the right less so. Behind the auricles, chiefly the left, the serous layer extends upwards in the form of a pouch, rising above their upper border, so as to be loosely