J. & A. CHURCHILL JS RECENT WORKS. II The Practice of Surgery : A Manual. By Thomas Bryant, Surgeon to Guy's Hospital. Third Edition. 2 vols. Crown 8vo, with 672 Engravings (many being coloured), 28s. Illustrations of Clinical Surgery. By Jonathan Hutchinson, Senior Surgeon to the London Hospital. In Occasional Fasciculi. I. to XIV., 6s. 6d. each. Fasciculi I. to X. bound, with Appendix and Index, ^3 los. The Principles and Practice of Surgery. By William Pirrie, F.R.S.E., Professor of Surgery in the University of Aberdeen. Third Edition. Bvo, with 490 Engravings, 28s. Surgical Enquiries : Including the Hastings Essay on Shock, the Treatment of Inflammations, and numerous Clinical Lectures. By Furneaux Jor- dan, F.R.C.S., Professor of Surgery, Queen's College, Birmingham. Second Edition, with numerous Plates. Royal 8vo, I2s. 6d. Treatment of Wounds: Clinical Lectures. By Sampson Gamgee, F.R.S.E., Surgeon to the Queen's Hos- pital, Birmingham. Crown 8vo, with Engravings, 5 s. By the same Author. Fractures of the Limbs, And their Treatment. 8vo, with Plates, ICS. 6d. On Dislocations and Fractures. By Joseph Maclise, F.R.C.S. Uni- form with " Surgical Anatomy." 36 folio Plates and Text. Cloth, £2 los. Lectures on Diseases of Bones and Joints. By Charles Mac- NAMARA, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Surgery at, Westminster Hospital. Crown 8vo, with Engravings, ICS. 6d. Clubfoot: Its Causes, Pathology, and Treatment. By Wm. Adams, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to the Great Northern Hospital. Second Edition. 8vo, with 106 Engravings and 6 Lithogi-aphic Plates, 15s. By the same Author. On Contraction of the Fingers, and its Treatment by Subcutaneous Opera- tion ; and on Obliteration of Depressed Cicatrices, by the same Method. 8vo, with 30 Engravings, 4s. 6d. Osteotomy: With an Enquiry into the Etiology and Pathology of Knock-knee. Bow-leg, and other Osseous Deformities of the Lower Limbs. By William Macewen, M.D., Surgeon and Lecturer on Clinical Surgery to the Glasgow Royal Infirmary. 8vo^ with 51 Engravings, 7s. 6d. Lectures on Orthopaedic Sur- gery. By Bernard E. Brodhurst, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to the Royal Ortho- ptedic Hospital. Second Edition. 8vo, with Engravings, 12s. 6d. By the same Author. On Anchylosis, and the Treat- ment for the Removal of De- formity and the Restoration of Mobility in Various Joints. Fourth Edition, 8vo, with Engravings, 5s. Orthopaedic Surgery, And Diseases of the Joints. By Lewis A. Sayre, M.D., Professor of Orthopeedic Surgery in Bellevue Hospital Medical College. 8vo, with 274 Engravings, 20S. Orthopraxy: The Mechanical Treatment of Deformities, Debilities, and Deficiencies of the Human Fraine. By H. Heather Bigg, Assoc. Inst. C.E. Third Edition. 8vo, with 319 Engravings, 15s. The Orthopragms of the Spine: An Essay on the Curative Mechanisms applicable to Spinal Curvature, etc. By Robert Heather Bigg, Assoc. Inst. C.E. 8vo, with Engravings, 5s. A Manual of the Principles and Practice of Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery. By T. Wharton Jones, F.R.C.S., F.R.S. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo, with 9 Coloured Plates and 173 Engravings, 12s. 6d. A Manual of Diseases of the Eye. By C. Macnamara, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to Westminster Hospital. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo, with Coloured Plates and Engravings, 12s. 6d. Diseases of the Eye: By Haynes Walton, F.R.C.S., Sur- geon to St. Mary's Hospital and in charge of its Ophthalmological Department. Third Edition. 8vo, with 3 Plates and nearly 300 Engravings, 25s. Hintson OphthalmicOut-Patient Practice. By Charles Higgens, Ophthalmic Assistant-Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Ophthalmology at, Guy's Hospital. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 3s.