168 F(ETAL CIRCULATION. the vena cava inferior into the foramen ovale. 2. The foramen ovale is widely open. 3. The right and left pulmonai-y arteHes are very small and ill developed, so as to admit very little blood to the lungs. 4. The ductus arteriosus (from the pulmonary artery to the aorta) is widely open. 5. The right and left ventricles are of equal thickness because they have equal work to perform. FcETAL Circulation. Circulation of The umbilical vein (fig. 31), bringing pure blood THE Blood in the from the placenta, enters at the umbilicus, and passes to the under surface of the liver, where it sends off some small branches to the left lobe. At the transverse fissure it divides into two branches: one, the smaller, termed the ductus venosus, passes straight to the inferior vena cava; the other or right division joins the vena portae, and after ramifying in the liver, returns its blood through the hepatic veins into the inferior vena cava. From the inferior vena cava, the blood enters the right aiu'icle, and this stream (directed by the Eustachian valve) flows through the foramen ovale into the left auricle. From the left auricle it runs into the left ventricle, and thence through the aorta (only a small quantity passing into the descending thoracic aorta) into, the great vessels of the head and the upper limbs, which are thus supplied by almost pure blood. From the head and the upper limbs, the blood returns (impure) through the superior vena cava into the right am-icle, and flows into the right ventricle. From the right ventricle it passes through the pulmonary artery, and the ductus arteriosus, into the end of the arch of the aorta; only a very small quantity of it going to the lungs. From the aorta, part of the blood is distribute** to the pelvis and lower extremities; part is conveyed through the umbilical arteries to the placenta, where it becomes oxygenated. The following changes take place in the circulation after birth:— I. The umbilical vein becomes obliterated from the second to the fifth day after birth, and subsequently forms the round liga- ment of the liver.