288 MUSCLES or THE FOEEARM. Pkonatob This muscle forms the inner boundary of the Eadti Teres. triangular space at the elbow. It arises from the- anterior surface of the internal condyle, from tlie common tendon, from the fascia of the forearm, and from the septum between it and the flexor carpi radialis. It has also a small tendinous origin from the inner border of the coronoid process of the ulna. From these two origins, between which the median nerve passes, the muscle proceeds obliquely downwards, and is inserted by a flat tendon into a rough surface on the outer and back part of the middle third of the radius. In amputating the forearm, it is very desirable to save the insertion of this muscle, that the stump may have a pronator. Its nerve comes from the median. Flexor Carpi This muscle arises by the common tendon from Eadialis. the internal condyle, from the intermuscular septa, and from the fascia of the forearm. The fleshy fibres terminate near the middle of the forearm, in a flat tendon, which rims in a separate sheath outside the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, passes through a groove in the os trapezium, bridged over by fibrous tissue and lined by a synovial membrane, and is inserted into the base of the second metacarpal bone. The outer border of its tendon is the guide to the radial artery in the lower half of the forearm. Its nerve comes from the median. Palmaris This slender muscle arises from the common LoNGus. tendon at the internal condyle, from the inter- muscular septa, and from the fascia of the forearm. About the middle of the forearm it terminates in a flat tendon, which de- scends along the middle of the forearm to the wrist, lying upon the flexor sublimis digitorum; it then passes over the anterior annular ligament, and is continued into the palmar fascia. This muscle is a tensor of the palmar fascia.* Its nerve comes from the median. Flexor Carpi This muscle arises by two heads : one from the Ulnaris. internal condyle, the common tendon, and the * The palmaris longus is absent in about one out of ten subjects. The situation of its muscular portion is subject to variety; sometimes occupying the middle, some- times the lower third of the forearm. The tendon is in some instances wholly inserted into the anterior annular ligament.