FASCIA OF THE ARM. 27S from the median basilic above the situation where it crosses the brachial artery. Ltmphatic Immediately above the internal condyle, in the GiANDs. neighbourhood of the basilic vein, we find one or two sroall lymphatic glands. Others may be higher up along the inner side of the arm. A gland is occasionally met with'at the bend of the elbow ; but never below this joint. These little glands are the first which are liable to become tender and enlarged after a poisoned wound of the hand. Muscular '^^^ fascia which invests the muscles of the Fascia and its upper arm is a continuation of the fascia of the CONNECTIONS. trunk and the axilla. This membrane varies in density; thus it is thin over the biceps, stronger on the inner side of the arm, to protect the brachial vessels and nerves, and strongest over the triceps. At the upper part of the arm it is connected with the coracoid process and the clavicle; it is strengthened at the axilla by an expansion from the tendons of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi; posteriorly, it is attached to the spine of the scapula. The fascia surrounds the brachial vessels with a sheath, and fiurnishes partitions which separate the muscles from each other. Of these partitions, the most marked are the external and internal intermuscular septa, which divide the muscles on the anterior from that on the posterior surface of the upper arm. These septa are attached to the condyloid ridges of the humerus and to the condyles. The internal intermuscular septum, the stronger of the two, begins at the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, and separates the triceps extensor from the brachialis anticus. The external intermuscular septum commences from the insertion of the deltoid, and separates the brachialis anticus, the supinator longus, and the extensor carpi radialis longior in front, from the triceps extensor behind. At the lower part of the upper arm, the fascia is remarkably strong, especially where it covers the brachialis anticus, and the brachial vessels, and is continued over the muscles on the inner side of the forearm. At the back of the elbow, the fascia is attached to the tendon of the triceps, and the olecranon.