526 MUSCULAR FASCIA AND ANNULAR LIGAMENTS. The internal cutaneous nerve supplies the skin of the upper and inner aspect of the leg, and joins the internal saphenous nerve. The skin on the front and outer parts of the upper half of the leg is supplied by cutaneous branches from the external popliteal or peroneal nerve; the skin of the lower'half, by its external cutaneous branch as follows :— ExTERNAi. Cu- "^^^^ branch of the peroneal nerve comes TANEors Branch through the fascia about the lower third of or THE Peeoneal outer side of the leg ; and descending over ^'^^^^ the front of the ankle, divides into two. Trace them, and you will find that the inner and smaller supplies the inner side of the great toe, and the contiguous sides of the second and third toes ; towards its termination it communicates with the long saphenous and anterior tibial nerves. The outer distributes branches to the outer side of the third toe, both sides of the fourth, and the inner side of the fifth toe, and joins the short (or external) saphenous nerve. The outside of the little toe is supplied by the short saphe- nous nerve, which runs behind the outer ankle with the corre- sponding vein. The contiguous sides of the great and second toes are supplied by the termination of the anterior tibial nerve.* Muscular This is remarkably thick and strong. Besides Fascia and An- its general purpose of forming sheaths for the NUTAR LiGA- muscles, and straps for the tendons, it gives origin, ^^^Ts. ^Y^Q forearm, to muscular fibres; so that it cannot be removed near the knee, without leaving the muscles ragged, "^he fascia is attached to the head of the tibia and the fibula: it is identified on the inner side with the expanded tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semi-tendinosus ; on the outer side with that of the biceps: consequently, when these muscles act, it is rendered tense. Following it down the leg, you find that it is attached to the edge of the tibia, and that it * Such is the most common distribution of the nerres to tlie upper surface of the toes. But deviations from this arrangemeut are frequent.