POPLITEAL VESSELS. 553 bi-anch of the external circumflex and the anastomotica magna ; inferiorly, with the anterior tibial recurrent; and also among themselves. It is mainly through these channels that the collateral circulation is established in the leg after ligature of the superficial femoral. The sural arteries proceed one to each head of the gastrocnemius, and are proportionate in size to the muscle; one or two branches are distributed to the soleus. These arteries are accompanied by branches of the internal popliteal nerve for the supply of the muscle. Small superior muscular branches supply the vasti and hamstring muscles, and inosculate with the perforating and articular arteries. Popliteal This vein is formed by the junction of the Vein. vense comites of the anterior and posterior tibial arteries, and is situated superficial to the artery. It crosses ob- liquely from the inner to the outer side of the artery, and is con- tinued upwards as the femoral. It receives in the popliteal space the short saphena, the articular, and sural veins. The insertion of the tendon of the semimembranosus into the head of the tibia, and its several connections, described (p. 546), should now be fully examined. PopLiTEus This muscle arises within the capsule of the knee-joint, from a depression on the outside of the external condyle by a thick tendon, which runs beneath the ex- ternal lateral ligament. The muscular fibres gradually spread out, and are inserted into the triangular surface of the tibia above the soleal ridge on the bone. It is supplied by a branch of the popliteal nerve which enters its deep surface. Its action is to flex the leg, and then to rotate the tibia inwards. The tendon plays over the articulation between the tibia and fibula; and a bursa intervenes, which generally communicates by a wide opening with the knee- joint. The tendinous origin is in contact with the external semi- lunar cartilage. Eeflect the soleus from its origin, and remove it from the deep- seated muscles, observing at the same time the numerous arteries which enter its under surface. This done, notice the fascia which binds down the deep muscles. It is attached to the margin of the bones on either side, increases in strength towards the ank^e, and