500 FASCIA LATA. along the front of the thigh it joins with the crural branch of the genito-crural and the internal cutaneous nerves. c. The internal cutaneous nerve, also a branch of the anterior crural, crosses obliquely over the femoral artery. It then divides into branches which perforate the fascia lata, and supply the skin on the inner side of the thigh, over the patella, and the inner side of the leg. Some of these communicate with the middle cutaneous, the long saphenous and the cutaneous branch of the obturator.* d. The crural branch of the genito-crural nerve perforates the fascia external to the femoral-artery, immediately below Poupart's ligament, and supplies the skin in.front of,the thigh. About two or three inches below the crural arch it usually communicates with the middle cutaneous nerve. It also distributes a few filaments to-the femoral artery in its passage under the crural arch. e. The ilio-inguinal nerve, after emerging from the external abdominal ring, supplies the skin on the inner aspect of the thigh. Fascia Lata Remove the subcutaneous fat to examine the fascia lata of the thigh. The use of this fascia is to cover the muscles of the thigh collectively, and to form separate sheaths for each; so that it not only keeps them together, but maintains each in its -proper position. A- knowledge of these sheaths is important, because they interfere with the progress of deep-seated matter towards the surface, and cause it to burrow in this or that direction according to the part in which it forms. The fascia is not of equal strength all round the thigh. It is comparatively thin on the inner side; exceedingly thick and strong down the-'Oufeer side ; here, indeed, it has the appearance of a dense expanded aponem-osis, strapping down the vastus externus muscle ; and it certai-nly performs the oflEice of a tendon, for it gives inser- tion to two powerful muscles—namely, the tensor fasciae femoris, and the gluteus maximus (fig. 115). The fascia lata is attached to the margin of the bones whicli constitute the framework of the lower extremity. Beginning from * It is important to note that one, or sometimes two, of these internal cutaneous nerves cross the sheath of the femoral artery just where thcsartorius begins to over- lap it; and therefore at the spot-where it is usually tied. See diag., p. 511.