NERVES OF THE HEART. 152 pericardium. The right brancli, the larger and longer, passe? below the arch of the aorta to the lung; the left is easily followed to its lung by removing the layer of pericardium investing it. Search should be made for a short fibrous cord which connects the commencement of the left pulmonary artery with the concavity of the arch of the aorta. This cord is the remains of the ductus arteriosus, a canal which in foetal life conveyed blood from the pulmonary artery to the aorta. Draw towards the left side the first part of the arch of the aorta, and dissect the pericardium from the great vessels at the base of the heart. Thus a good view will be obtained of the trachea and its bifurcation into the two bronchi. Below the division of the trachea the right pulmonary artery is seen passing in front of the right bronchus. The superior vena cava and aorta are seen in front of, and nearly at right angles to, the right pulmonary artery. The vena azygos is seen arching over the right bronchus and ter- minating in the vena cava superior. Notice, especially, a number of lymphatic glands called bronchial, at the angle of bifurcation of the trachea. The situation of these glands in the midst of so many tubes explains the variety of symptoms which may be pro- duced by their enlarge^ment. Nebvks of the ^^^^ nerves of the heart come from the pneumo- Heart and Car- gastric and its recurrent branch, and the three DiAc Plexuses. cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. The pneumo- gastric gives off (generally) two or more filaments (cardiac) which proceed from the main trunk in the neck, or from its recurrent branch. The sympathetic sends three (cardiac) filaments ; one from the upper cervical ganglion, a second from the middle, and a third from the lower ; and they are called, respectively, the upper, middle, and lower cardiac nerves of the sympathetic. The minute and delicate nerves from these several sources on each side, pass downwards to the base of the heart. They vary very much in their precise relations to the great vessels upon which they run ; but speaking generally, it may be said that the nerves on the right side run chiefly behind the arch of the aorta, those on the left, in front of it. Eventually they form, by their mutual