NERVES OF THE FACE. 92 The malar branches cross the malar bone, supply the orbicular muscle, and communicate with filaments of the lachi-ymal, the supra- orbital, the superior maxillary, and the malar branch of the superior maxillary. The infra-orbital branches are the largest, and proceed transversely forwards beneath the zygomatici ovt-r the masseter, to supply the orbicu- laris oris, the elevators of the upper lip, and the muscles of the nose. Be- neath the levator labii superioris there is a free communication with the infra-orbital branches of the superior maxillary nerve, forming the infra- orbital plexus. Along the side of the nose the terminal filaments join the nasal and infra-trochlear branches of the ophthalmic. The cervico-facial division, joined in the parotid gland by filaments from the auricnlo-parotidean (branch of the cervical plexus), descends towards the angle of the jaw, and subdivides into buccal, supra- and infra-maxillary branches. The buccal branches pass forwards over the masseter parallel with the parotid duct, and supply the buccinator : they communicate with the buccal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve (third division of the fifth). The supra-maxillary branches advance over the masseter and facial artery, and run under the depressor muscles of the lower hp, all of which they supply. Some of the filaments communicate with the mental branch of the inferior dental nerve. The infra-maxillary or cervical branches, one or more in number, were dissected with the neck (p. 21). They arch forwards below the jaw covered by the platysma, as low as the hyoid bone, and communicate with the superficial cervical (branch of the cervical plexus). Eespecting the function of the facial nerve, it is, at its origin, purely a motor nerve; but after leaving the stylo-mastoid foramen it becomes a compound nerve, in consequence of the filaments which it receives from the auriculo-temporal branch of the fifth, and from the auriculo-parotidean branch of the cervical plexus. These communications explain the pain which is often felt in facial paralysis along the track of the facial nerves.