640 DISSECTION OP THE EYE. the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve (p. 213). They perforate the back of the sclerotica like the arteries, run along the choroid which they supply in their course, and then break up into a fine non-medullated plexus, which supplies the ciliary muscle and iris. Membraka Until the seventh or- eighth month of foetal PupiLLARis. life, the pupil is closed by a delicate membrane, the memhrana pupillaris. Its vessels, derived from those of the iris and capsule of the lens, are arranged in loops which converge toward the centre of the membrane. Quekett has described this membtane, which has always been regarded as a distinct structure, as identical with the- anterior layer of the capsule of the lens.*' ^ To obtain a view of the retina, the choroid Ketina. coat must be carefully removed while the eye is under water ; this should be done with the forceps and scissors on a fresh eye. The optic nerve, having entered the interior of the globe through the sclerotic-and the choroid, expands into the deli- cate nervous tunic called the retina. In passing through the coats of the eye the nervo becomes gradually constricted and reduced to one-half of its diameter; here it presents a round disk, called the porus opticus, in the centre of which may be seen the arteria centralis retinee. At this point, too, the nerve-sub- stance projects slightly into the interior of the globe, forming a little prominence, to which the term colliculus nervi optici has been applied.-f In front the retina terminates a little behind the poste- rior margin of the ciliary processes in a thin serrated border [ora serrata). Precisely opposite the pupil, in the centre of the axis of vision, there is- an oval yellow spot, macula Piitea, in- the retina, about -^-fjth ^ of an inch in diameter, fading off gradually at the edges, and having a black spot, fovea centralis, in the centre. * See a paper by John Quekett in the 'Transactions of the Microscopical Socitty of London,' vol. iii. p. 9. t This prominence is remarfcable in that it is insensible to the mys-of light. It is termed the ' blind spot.'