232 MUCOUS MEMBRANE OP THE NOSE. tinuity may be traced into the pharynx, into the various sinuses, into the orbits through the nasal ducts, and into the tympana and mastoid cells through the Eustachian tubes. At the lower border of the turbinated bones it is disposed in thick and loose folds. The membrane varies in thickness and vascularity in different parts of the nasal cavities.. Upon the lower half of the septum and the inferior turbinated bones, it is much thicker than elsewhere, owing to a fine plexus of arteries and veins in the submucous tissue. In the sinuses the mucous membrane is thinner, less vascular, and cLosely adherent to the periosteum. The great vascularity of the mucous membrane raises the temperature of the inspired air, and pours out a copious secretion which prevents the membrane from becoming too dry. The mucous membrane of the nasal cavities is not lined throughout by the same kind of epithelium. Near the nostrils the mucous membrane is furnished with papillse, with a squamous epithelium like the skin, and a few small hairs (vibrissoe). In the lower part of the nose—namely, along the respiratory tract and in the sinuses—the epithelium is columnar and ciliated ; but in the true olfactory region—that is, upon the superior and middle turbinated bones and the upper half of the septum—the epithe- lium is columnar, but not ciliated. In this region the mucous membrane is extremely vascular, thick, and studded with simple mucous glands. The columnar epithelial cells taper off at their deep ends into fine processes. Lying between these processes are fusiform cells, with central well-defined nuclei, to which the name of olfactory cells has been given; and it is probable that the attenuated processes which pass inwards from these cells are in direct connection with the terminal fibrils of the olfactory nerves. The arteries of the nasal cavities are derived from the an- terior and posterior ethmoidal branches of the opththalmic, and from the nasal branch, of the internal maxillary, whicli enters the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen. The external nose is supplied by the nasal branch of the ophthalmic (p. 215), the arteria lateralis nasi,, the angular, and the artery of the septum.