63 BEANCHES OP THE EXTERNAL CAROTID. crossed by the hypoglossal nerve, the facial and lingual veins, the posterior belly of the digastricus and stylo-hyoideus ; it then enters the parotid gland, where it lies beneath the facial nerve and external jugular- vein, and terminates near the neck of the jaw, by dividing into the temporal and internal maxillary arteries. The external carotid is separated from the internal, by the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and the stylo-hyoid ligament. The superior laryngeal nerve lies under both vessels. Notice the relative position which the external and internal carotids bear to each other. The external lies at first on the same plane with, but nearer to the side of the pharynx than the internal. It soon, however, changes its position, and crosses obliquely in front of the internal to reach the space between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. The internal carotid ascends perpendicularly by the side of the pharynx to the base of the skull. The external carotid gives off the following branches : 1. The superior thyroid. 5. The posterior auricular. 2. The lingual. 6. The internal maxillary. 3. The facial. 7. The temporal. 4. The occipital. 8. The ascending pharyngeal. Superior The superior thyroid, the first branch of the Thyroid Artery, external carotid, arises just below the great cornu of the OS hyoides. It lies in the superior carotid triangle, and runs beneath the omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles to the upper and front surface of the thyroid body, in which it terminates. Its branches are the four' following: 1. The hyoid, a small muscular bianch, runs horizontally inwai'ds below the greater comu of the os hyoides, and anastomoses with its fellow. 2. The superior laryngeal branch, accompanied by the superior laryn- geal nerve, runs beneath the thyro-hyoid muscle, pierces the thyi-o-hyoid membrane (sometimes the thyroid cartilage), and supplies the muscles and the mucous membrane of the larynx.