ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. 863 This small triangular muscle is situated near YRAMiDALis. pubes, close to the linea alba, and has a sheath of its own. It arises from the upper part of the pubes in front of the rectus, and terminates in the linea alba about mid- way between the pubes and the umbilicus. It is often absent on one or even both sides. Lioiea alba.—The aponeuroses of the abdominal muscles decus- sate along the middle line and form a white fibrous band, extending from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes. This is the linea alba: it is the fibrous continuation of the sternum and is broader above than below. A little lower than the middle is the umbilicus. The linea alba, being the thinnest part of the abdomen, and free from large blood-vessels, is chosen as a safe line for tapping in dropsy, for puncturing the bladder in retention of urine, and for ovariotomy. Lineoi semilunares.—These are the two slightly curved lines, on the front of the abdomen, corresponding with the outer margins of the two recti muscles. They are formed by the junction of the aponeuroses of the lateral muscles.- The abdominal muscles serve many important purposes:— Functions of 1st. In tranquil expiration they push the dia- THE Abdominal phragm upwards by gentle pressure on the abdo- MuscLEs. minal viscera. In forcible expiration the same process takes palace, but with greater energy. This is variously exemplified in coughing, sneezing, and laughing. 2nd. In vomiting, the diaphragm being fixed* by the closure of the glottis, the abdominal muscles contract, and assist the sto- mach to expel its contents. .3rd. In conjunction with the contracted diaphragm, they assist the muscular walls of the bladder and rectum in the expul- sion of urine and faeces, and the action of the uterus in partu- rition. They exercise a gentle pressure and support on the abdominal viscera, and shield them from injury by strongly con- tracting when a blow is anticipated. * By the term ' fixed,' it is meant that the diaphragm forms a resisting surface.