345 RADIO-ULNAE JOINT. common tendon of the extensors. The fibres spread out as they descend, and are interwoven with the annular ligament, surround- ing the head of the radius. The anterior and posterior ligaments of the elbow-joint con- sist of a few thin ligamentous fibres, spread over the capsule of the joint, in front and behind. There is no need of ligaments to limit flexion and extension in this joint: the coronoi'd process limits the one ; the olecranon the other. The preceding ligaments, collectively, form a continuous cap- sule for the joint. Superior The orbicular or annular ligament of the Kadio-ui-nar radius (fig. 66) does not of itself make a ring. Articulation. j^g p^^jg a,re attached to the anterior and posterior borders of the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. With this cavity it forms a complete collar, which encircles the head, and part of the neck, of the radius. The lower part of the ring is narrower than the upper, the better to clasp the neck of the radius, and maintain it more accurately in position. The external lateral ligament is attached to its outer surface. Synovial membrane of the elbow-joint.—Open the joint by a transverse incision in front, and observe the relative adaptation of the cartilaginous surfaces of the bones. The synovial membrane lines the interior of the capsule, and forms a cul-de-sac between the head of the radius and its annular ligament. It is widest and loosest under the tendon of the triceps. Where the membrane is reflected from the bones upon the ligaments, there is more or less adipose tissue, particularly in the fossse on the front and back part of the lower end of the humerus. Interosseous This is an aponeurotic septum, stretched be- LiGAMENT OR twccn the bones of the forearm, of which the chief Membrane. purpose is to afford an increase of surface for the attachment of muscles. The septum is deficient above, to permit free rotation of the radius. Its fibres extend obliquely downwards from the radius to the ulna. It is perforated in its lower third by the anterior interosseous vessels. The name of round or oblique ligament is given to a thin