279 BRACHIAL ARTERY. The ulnar nerve runs along the inner side of the artery as far as the middle of the arm. Below this point, the nerve leaves the artery, and passes through the intermuscular septum to get behind the internal condyle. Superficial to the artery, are the internal cutaneous nerve and the basilic vein. The artery is more or less overlapped, in the first part of its course, by the coraco-brachialis, lower down by the fleshy belly of the biceps ; the inner borders of these muscles, in their respective situations, being the best guides to the artery. About the middle of the humerus, the artery lies for nearly two inches on the tendon of the coraco-brachialis, and is so close to the bone that it can be effectually compressed, provided the pressure be made in the proper direction—namely, outwards; here, too, it is crossed by the median nerve. At the bend of the elbow the artery is crossed by the semi- lunar fascia from the biceps. It enters a triangular space, bounded by the pronator radii teres internally, and by the supinator radii longus externally. It sinks into this space, with the tendon of the biceps to its outer side, and the median nerve to its inner ; all three rest upon the brachialis anticus. To compress the artery here, pressure should be made directly backwards. Opposite the coronoid process of the ulna it divides into the radial and ulnar arteries. Two veins, of which the internal is the larger, lie in close contact with the brachial artery, and communicate at frequent intervals by transverse branches. Near the axilla they join and form the axillary vein. Branches of The brachial artery gives off three branches, BrachtalAetert. all from its inner side : namely, the superior profunda, the inferior profunda, and the anastomotica magna. It also distributes muscular branches (to the coraco-brachialis and biceps), which are given off from its outer side. a. The profunda superior arises from the brachial artery, immedi- ately below the tendon of the teres major.* It winds round the back of * If the profunda be not in its usual place, look for it above the tendon of the