SOLE OF THE FOOT. 563 and from the sheath of the peroneus longus. Passing obliquely forwards and inwards across the foot, it is inserted through the external sesamoid bone into the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe together with the inner head of the flexor brevis. This muscle greatly contributes to support the arch of the foot. Like the adductor of the thumb it should be considered as an interosseous muscle. Its nerve is derived from the external plantar. Flexor Bretis This little muscle arises from the base of the Minimi Digiti. fift]i metatarsal bone and the sheath of the pero- neus longus, proceeds forward along the bone, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. It is supplied by the external plantar nerve. Transvehsaiis This slender muscle runs transversely across Pedis. the distal ends of the metatarsal bones. It arises by little fleshy slips from the bases of the four outer toes, and is inserted into the first phalanx of the great toe with the adductor poUicis, of which it ought to be considered a part. Its nerve comes from the external plantar. The fourth layer of muscles consists of the interossei. These muscles are arranged nearly like those in Interossei the hand. They occupy the intervals between the metatarsal bones, and are seven in number, four being on the dorsal aspect of the foot, three on the plantar. The four dorsal interossei arise each by two heads from the contiguous sides of the metatarsal bones, and are inserted into the bases of the first phalanges. The first is inserted into the inner side of the second toe; the remaining three into the outer sides of the second, third, and fourth. The plantar interossei, three in number, arise from the inner sides and under surfaces of the third, fourth, and fifth metatarsal bones, and are inserted respectively into the inner sides of the bases of the first phalanges of the third, fourth, and fifth toes. The use of the interosseous muscles is to draw the toes to or from each other, and they do the one or the other according to the side of the phalanx on which they act. Now, if we draw a longi- 0 o 2