493 STEUCTURE OF THE LARGE INTESTINE. their capsules. Between the vesicles are found Lieberkiihn's follicles ; and the surface of the patches is covered with villi. These glands are liable to be ulcerated in typhoid fever. They diminish in number and size with old age. The solitary glands are scattered over all parts of the small and large intestines. They consist of the same lymphoid structure as the glands of Peyer, and only differ from them in being solitary instead of being aggregated into groups. The lymphatics consist of two sets, those of the muscular and those of the mucous coats; the latter receive those from the villi, at the base of which they form a minute plexus, and, after piercing the muscular coat, join with the former, which are chiefly found between the longitudinal and the circular layers of muscular fibres. The nerves are derived from the superior mesenteric plexus, and accompany the superior mesenteric artery and its branches, between the layers of the mesentery; after reaching the intestinal walls the nerve-filaments separate from the arteries. They then pierce the external longitudinal muscrdar fibres and form a very minute gangliated plexus, AuerbacJi's plexus or plexus myen- tericus, which distributes filaments to the muscular layer of the en- tire intestinal canal. From this plexus numerous branches perforate the internal circular muscular layer, and unite to form a largely gangliated plexus, Meissner's plexus, in the submucous tissue. The intermuscular plexus probably supplies the muscular coat and regulates the peristaltic action of the bowel; the submucous plexus determines the calibre of the blood-vessels. Large The principal external characters of the large Intkstine. intestine are that it is pouched or sacculated, and that it has attached to it little pendulous portions of fat covered by peritoneum, called appendices epiploicce. The pouches (sac- culi) are produced by a shortening of the longitudinal muscular fibres, and by their being collected into three bands, about half an inch wide, nearly equidistant from each other. One of these bands corresponds with the attached part of the circumference of the bowel; another with the front part; a third with its concavity. If