DISSECTION OF THE HEART. 165- DISSECTION OF THE HEART. The heart is conical in form, and more or less convex on its external aspect, with the exception of that portion lying on the tendinous centre of the diaphragm, which is flattened. It is situated obliquely in the thorax, and is completely surrounded by the pericardium. It extends from the fourth to the eighth dorsal vertebra, with its base directed upwards and to the right, its apex downwards and to the left. The position which the heart bears to the thoracic walls has been already described (pp. 134-137); it varies however in different subjects, and as a rule is higher in the dead body than during life, owing to the shrinking of the lungs. Notice the two longitudinal grooves {sulci) on the front and back surfaces of the heart, indicating the septum between the two ventricles ; the anterior groove lies nearer to the left side, the posterior, to the right side of the heart. A circular groove, nearer the base, marks the separation between the auricles and the ventricles. In the circular and longitudinal furrows, surrounded by more or less fat, run the coronary vessels, the nerves and the lymphatics. Size axd The size of the heart is dependent upon so Weight. many conditions, that the following measurements must be received with more or less limitation. An averao e heart will measure in its transverse direction at the base, three and a half inches; in its length, about five inches ; in its thickness, two and a half inches. The weight is from ten to twelve ounces in the male, and from eight to ten in the female, but much depends upon the size and condition of the body generally. As a rule, the heart gradually increases in length, breadth, and thickness from child- hood to old age.* The heart is a double hollow muscular organ; that is, it is composed of two hearts, a right and a left, separated by a septum, and not communicating with each other except during uterine, and rarely in adult, life. Each half consists of two cavities, an auricle and a ventricle, which communicate by a wide orifice, * Bizot, 'M^m. de la Soc. M^d. d'Observ. de Paris,' torn. i. 1836.