77 MUSCLES OF THE FACE. From this attachment the fibres form a series of oval curves, taking a wide sweep, and pass uninterruptedly round the eyelids and orbit. The fibres which belong to the eyelids (orbicularis palpebrarum) are thin and pale, and form, over each eyelid, a series of elliptical curves which meet at the external canthus of the lids, and are loosely attached to the external tarsal ligament. The degree of their curvature becomes less as they approach the margin of the lids, so that some fibres proceed close to the lashes. This was first pointed out by Eiolanus,* and described as the musculus ciliaris.f The fibres which spread over the orbital margins are thicker and redder, and mingle, on the forehead, with the occipito-frontalis and corru- gator supercilii, on the cheek, with the elevators of the upper lip and nose and the zygomaticus minor. No fat is found on the eyelids ; nothing intervenes between the skin and the muscle but loose connective tissue, that there may be no impediment to the free play of the lids. The orbicular muscle not only closes the eyelids but protects the eye. When the eye is threatened, the muscle suddenly con- tracts, presses the eye back into the orbit, and contracts the skin of the brow and cheek so as to form a soft cushion in front of it. The cushion itself may be severely bruised, as is seen in a 'black eye;' but the globe itself is rarely injured. When the eye is closed, as in winking, the palpebral portion of the muscle contracts. Observe this movement, and notice that the lids are drawn slightly inwards as well as closed. The object of this in- ward motion is to direct the tears towards the inner angle of the eyelids, where they are absorbed by the puncta lachrymalia. Since the orbicular muscle is supplied by the facial nerve, it is affected in facial palsy, and the patient cannot close the lids. CoRHuoATOR This aHses from the inner end of the super- SupEHciLii. ciliary ridge of the frontal bone, and is inserted into the under surface of the orbicularis palpebrarum and occipito- * ' Anthropologia,' lib. v. cap. 10. f Strictly speaking, the musculus ciliaris arises from the two little divisions of the tendo oculi, and is inserted, at the external canthus, into the fibrous tissue which unites the two tarsal cartilages.