DISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. 608 entirely of tortuous ramifications of minute blood-vessels, and are covered with vascular villi. The villi themselves are covered with large spheroidal epithelial cells. In front, the plexuses com- municate with each other through the foramen of Monro ; behind, they descend into the middle horns of the lateral ventricles, and become continuous with the pia mater at the base of the brain. From the under surface of the velum two small vascular processes are prolonged into the third ventricle, forming the choroid plexuses Vbn^ Gaieni ^^^^ cavity. Along the centre of the velum run two large veins, called vence Galeni, which return the blood from the ventricles into the straight sinus. The velum interpositum, with the choroid plexuses, must now be removed to expose the following structures shown in diagram (p. 610) :—I. A full view of the optic thalamus. 2. Between the optic thalami is the third ventricle, a deep vertical fissure, situ- ated in the middle line. 3. Behind the fissure is the pineal body, a vascular structure, about the size of a pea. From this body may be traced forwards two slender white cords, called its peduncles—one along the inner side of each optic thalamus. 4. Passing transversely across the third ventricle are three com- missures—anterior, middle, and posterior, connecting the oppo- site sides of the brain. 5. Immediately behind the pineal body are four elevations, two on each side, called the cooyora quad- rigemina, or nates and testes. 6. These bodies are connected with the cerebellum by two bands, one on each side, termed the processus a cerebello ad cerebrum. 7. Between these cords extends a thin layer of grey substance, called the valve of Vieussens, beneath which lies the fourth ventricle. Thalamus This, called also the posterior cerebral ganglion, Opticus. is the oval elevation seen on the floor of the lateral ventricle, immediately behind the corpus striatum and taenia semicircularis. The under surface rests upon its correspond- ing crus cerebri, and forms the roof of the middle horn of the lateral ventricle. Though white on the surface, its interior con- sists of alternate layers of white and grey matter. Beneath the posterior part of the thalamus are two small eminences, termed the