INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 102 BLANCHES IN i. The superior dental branch runs along the tube- THE Thtbd Paht. rosity of the superior maxillary bone, and sends small arteries through the foramina in the bone to the pulps of the molar and bicuspid teeth. It also supplies the gums, and the mucous membrane of the antrum. j. The infra-orhital branch ascends through the spheno-maxillary fissure, then runs forward along the infra-orbital canal with the superior maxillary nerve, and emerges upon the face at the infra-orbital foramen. In the infra-orbital canal the artery sends branches downwards through little canals in the bone to the incisor and canine teeth, and upwards into the orbit to the infei-ior oblique and inferior rectus. After issuing from the foramen it sends upward branches to the lachrymal sac, and descending branches to the upper lip. The former anastomose with the nasal branches of the ophthalmic and facial arteries; the latter with the superior coronary, transverse facial, and buccal arteries. k. The descending palatine, a branch of considerable size, runs down the posterior palatine canal with the palatine nerve (a branch from Meckel's ganglion), and then along the roof of the hard palate, towards the anterior palatine canal, in which, much diminished in size, it inoscu- lates on the septum nasi with a branch of the spheno palatine artery. It supplies the gums, the glands, and mucous membrane of this part, and furnishes branches to the soft palate. I. The Vidian, an insignificant branch, runs backwards through the Vidian canal with the Vidian nerve, and is distributed to the Eustachian tube, the pharynx, and the tympanum. m. The pterygo-palatine is a small but constant branch which runs backwards through the pterygo-palatine canal, and ramifies upon the upper part of the pharynx and the Eustachian tube. n. The nasal or spheno-palatine branch enters the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen in company with the nasal nerve from Meckel's (spheno-palatine) ganglion, and ramifies upon the spongy bones, the ethmoidal cells, and the antrum. One large branch, the artery of the septum, runs along the septum nasi towards the anterior palatine canal, where it joins the descending palatine a. Observe that all the branches of the internal maxillary artery in the first and third parts of its course traverse bony canals; while the branches in the second part go directly to muscles. The internal maxillary vein is formed by the veins correspond-