DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 598 the sensitive root, the Grasserian ganglion. The root then divides into three branches—the ophthalmic, which passes through the sphenoidal fissure ; the superior maxillary, which passes through the foramen rotundum ; the inferior maxillary, which passes through the foramen ovale. They all confer common sensation upon the parts they supply, which comprises the entire face and sides of the head. The small motor root passes beneath the ganglion, with which it has no connection, and accompanies the inferior maxillary division, to be distributed to the muscles of mastication. Sixth Paie ob The sixth nerve emerges from the groove be- Abducbntes. tween the pons and the anterior pyramid (p. 584), with both of which it is connected. Its deep origin has been traced to a grey nucleus of nerve-cells in the floor of the fourth ventricle. It leaves the skull through the sphenoidal fissure, and supplies the rectus extern us of the eye. c -o The seventh comprises two nerves—the vortio Seventh Pair. ^ ■'^ dura, or motor nerve of the face, and the portio mollis, or auditory nerve. The two nerves, of which the portio dura is the more internal and anterior, arise apparently from the lower border of the pons Varolii (p. 584). The deep origin of the portio dura is stated to pass through the medulla to the grey nucleus in the floor of the fourth ventricle near the origin of the sixth nerve. The deep origin of the portio mollis is from the internal auditory nucleus in the floor of the fourth ventricle. The nerve then passes outwards, and enters the meatus auditorius intemus in company with the portio dura. For the fiuther description of the portio dura, see p. 90. The auditory nerve divides at the bottom of the meatus auditorius intemus into cochlear and vestibular branches, which are distributed to the internal ear. Eighth Pair -^^^^ comprises three nerves—the glosso- pharyngeal, the pneumogastric, and the nervus accessorius (p. 580). The glosso-pharyngeal nerve arises by several filaments from the restiform body of the medulla, through which they may be traced to a grey nucleus in the outer part of