STRUCTURE OP THE LUNGS. 174 increase with age. The source of these discolourations is not exactly known; but they are probably deposits of minute particles of carbonaceous matter which have been inhaled with the air. In the male the average weiarht of the risfht Weight. o o o lung is 24 oz., that of the left, 21 oz.; in the female the average is about 17 oz. on the right, and 15 oz. on the left side. The total capacity of the lungs in an adult male of ordinary height is 282 cubic inches; and the amount of air still contained in the lungs after a forced expiration has been estimated at 57 cubic inches. The difference between these volumes indicates the amount of air which can be inhaled, from the deepest expiration to the fullest inspiration, and has been termed the vital capacity of the lungs.* Lobules of the The surface of the healthy lung is marked by faint white lines, which map it out into a number of angular spaces of various size. These spaces indicate the lobules of the lung. Each lobule is a lung in miniature. Whoever understands the structure of a single lobule, understands the struc- ture of the entire lung. The lobules are connected by fine areolar tissue, called interlobular, which is everywhere soft and elastic to allow the free expansion of the organ. The cells of this tissue have no communication with the air-vesicles unless the latter be ruptured by excessive straining, and then this intermediate tissue becomes inflated with air, and is called ' interlobular emphy- sema.' "When infiltrated with serum it constitutes ' oedema' of the lung. Each lobule receives a small bronchial tube, lobular bronchial tube, which subdivides into smaller branches. Thus reduced in size, the walls of the tubes no longer present traces of cartilaginous tissue, but are composed of a delicate elastic membrane upon which the capillaries ramify in a very minute network.f Each tube finally leads into an irregular passage, lobular passage, from which proceed on all sides numerous dilatations: these are the * Hutchinson, ' Med. Chir. Trans.,' vol. xxix, 1846, t In phthisis the expectoration contains some of the dSbris of this elastic frame- work of the air-vesicles; it can be seen under the microscope, and is a test of the character of the sputa.