STEUCTUEE OF THE SPLEEN. 482 stomach, is concave, and divided into an anterior and a posterior portion by a vertical fissure—the hilus—at the bottom of which are large openings through which the vessels enter and emerge from the spleen. The spleen is invested with two coats, a peritoneal and a fibrous. The peritoneal coat entirely covers the organ, except at the hilus, from which it is reflected to the stomach, forming the gastro-splenic omentum. Its fibrous capsule, tunica propria, not only covers the spleen, but sends throughout its substance fibrous cords {trabecular), which cross in various directions, and thus form an intricate network of what are called trabecular spaces. Besides this, the trabeculse form sheaths and supports for the splenic vessels throughout their ramifications. The whole of this fibrous framework is exceedingly elastic to admit of the varying size of the spleen, and contains more or less non-striped muscular tissue. The trabecular spaces, above described, are filled with what is called the pulp of the spleen. This pulp is a soft reddish-brown substance, and, under the microscope, is found to consist of con- nective-tissue corpuscles, which, with their communicating pro- cesses, make up a fine retiform tissue, the interstices between which are filled with red and white blood-corpuscles. Broadly speaking, then, the spleen pulp is composed chiefly of cells. The splenic artery enters at the hilus of the spleen, by several branches, which ramify in its substance ensheathed and supported by the fibrous framework.* The smallest branches leave the trabeculse, and, entering the splenic pulp, terminate in minute vessels, arranged in pennicillate tufts. They open, and therefore pour their blood directly, into the pulp tissue. The veins are said to commence in the pulp tissue in the same way as the arteries terminate in it, and to travel along the trabeculse like the arteries ; but they communicate freely, and are so far unlike the arteries. In the pulp of the spleen we also find what are called the Malpighian eorpuscles.f They are about -^-^ of an inch in * The ramifications of the splenic artery may be seen by washing away the pulp, and floating the flocculeat-looking spleen in water. •j- It useless to lojk for them in the human spleen, unless the subject be ex-