DISSECTION OF THE ORGAN OP HEARING. 650 floor, owing to the oblique direction of the membrana tympani, is a little longer than the roof. It is not of equal calibre throughout, the narrowest part being about the middle ; hence the difficulty of extracting foreign bodies which have passed to the bottom of the canal. It is formed, partly by a tubular continuation of the cartilage of the auricle, partly, by an osseous canal in the temporal bone. The cartilaginous portion is about half an inch long and is firmly connected with the osseous portion, which is about three- fourths of an inch. The skin and the cuticle are continued down the passage, and becoming gradually thinner, form a cul-de-sac over the membrana tympani. The outer portion is furnished with hairs and ceruminous glands which secrete the cerumen or wax, and are only found over the cartilaginous portion of the canal. Its arteries are derived from the posterior auricular, internal maxillary and temporal; its nerve from the amiculo-temporal. Tysipanum "^^^ tympanum, or middle ear, is an irregular cavity in the petrous part of the temporal bone, and separated from the external auditory meatus by the membrana tympani. It is lined with mucous membrane and filled with air, which is freely admitted through the Eustachian tube ; so that the atmospheric pressure is equal on both sides of the membrane. A chain of small bones, retained in their position by ligaments and acted upon by muscles, passes across it. The use of these bones is to communicate the vibrations of the membrana tym- pani to the labyrinth. For this purpose one end of the chain is attached to the membrane, the other to the fenestra ovalis. The antero-posterior diameter of the tympanum is rather less than half an inch, its vertical and transverse diameters about a quarter of an inch. The cavity is bounded by a roof, a floor, an outer, an inner, an anterior, and a posterior wall. Its roof is formed by a thin plate of bone corresponding with the anterior surface of the pars petrosa ; its floor, by a thin plate, which forms the jugular fossa. Its outer wall is formed by the membrana tympani, and partly by bone ; the latter is pierced by the fissura Grlaseri (which gives passage to the processus gracilis of the malleus and the laxator tympani), and by the canal of Huguier for the exit of the chorda tympani