57 CERVICAL PLEXUS. 2. Pharyngeal branches, wMch pass to the pharyngeal muscles; one, the largest of all, enters the pharynx above the superior constrictor, and terminates in the soft palate, the Eustachian tube, and the tonsils. 3. A meningeal branch, which passes through the foramen lacerum posticum, and is distiibuted to the dura mater of the occipital fossa. The examination of the two renoaining branches of the external carotid, the internal maxillary and temporal, must for the present be postponed. Meanwhile the student should make out the deep cervical plexus and its branches. Cervical This plexus is formed by the anterior branches Plexus of of the four upper cervical nerves. It consists Nbryes. q£ series of loop-like communications, between these nerves, close to the transverse processes of the four upper cervical vertebrae: each nerve dividing into an ascending and a descending branch, with the exception of the first. The plexus is situated behind the sterno-mastoid m. and internal jugular vein, and lies in front of the scalenus medius and the levator anguli scapulge. The plexus gives off superficial and deep branches. The super- ficial branches have been already described (p. 20). The deep branches may be divided into an internal and an external series. Internal Series.— 1. The phrenic arises from the thii-d, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves, and passes through the thorax to be distributed to the cHaphragm. (For ftn'ther course see p. 59.) 2. The commitnicantes noni come from the second and third cervical nerves, wind round the internal jugular vein, and join the descendens noni in front of the carotid sheath, forming the ' ansa hypoglossi.' They supply the depressor muscles of the os hyoides and laiynx. 3. Muscular branches to the recti antici, the rectus lateralis, and longus colli muscles. 4. Branches which communicate with the pneumogastiic, hypoglossal, and sympathetic nerves, and one to join the fifth cervical. External Series.—1. One or more branches to the nervus accesso- rius: firatly in the sterno-mastoid, then in the occipital triangle, and lastly beneath the trapezius.