607 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. appears to be; that which is seen projectiag on the floor of the lateral ventricle being only a part of it. The intra-ventricular portion is pear-shaped, broad in front, and when traced backwards is found to taper gradually to a point on the outside of the optic thalamus (p. 605). The under ipsLvt—extra-ventricular portion—of the corpus striatum lies embedded in the white substance of the hemisphere, and corresponds with the island of Eeil. TiENiA Semi- This is a narrow semi-transparent band of ciKctnAEis. longitudinal white fibres, which lies in the groove between the corpus striatum and the optic thalamus (fig. 151). In front, it is connected with the anterior crus of the fornix and descends with it to the corpus mammillare ; behind, it is lost in the white substance of the middle horn of the lateral ventricle. A vein, one or more from the corpus striatum, passes underneath the ttenia semi-circularis to join the vena Galeni. Hippocampus This is an elongated eminence of grey matter, Major. covered with white, and is situated in the pos- terior part of the descending horn. It extends to the bottom of the horn, where it becomes somewhat expanded, and indented on the sm'face, so as to resemble the paw of an animal, whence its name, pes hippocampi. Attached along the front border of the hippocampus, is the posterior crus of the fornix. Hippocampus This eminence, smaller than the preceding, is Minor. situated in the posterior horn. It consists of white matter externally, and corresponds to the calcarine fissure. Between the hippocampus major and minor, is a triangular smooth surface, called the pes accessorius or eminentia collateralis. This corresponds to the posterior ramus of the fissure of Sylvius. Velum Inter- The velum interpositum, which supports the posiTuji and fornix, should now be examined. This is a layer Chokoid Plexus. q£ mater, which penetrates into the ven- tricles through the transverse fissure, beneath the posterior border of the corpus callosum, as shown in fig. 150. The shape of this vascular membrane is like that of the fornix, and its borders project beneath that body and form the red convoluted fringes called the choroid plexuses. These plexuses consist almost