ARTERIES OF THE FACE. 87 The facial artery supplies numerous biranches to the muscles of the face, and inosculates with the transversalis faciei, infra-orbital, the mental, the sublingual branch of the lingual, the nasal branches of the internal maxillary, the buccal, and the ophthalmic arteries. The facial artery and its branches are surrounded by a minute plexus of nerves (nervi moUes), invisible to the naked eye. They are derived from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympa- thetic, and exert a powerful influence over the contraction and dilatation of the capillary vessels, and thus occasion those sudden changes in the countenance indicative of certain mental emotions, e.g. blushing or sudden paleness.* The facial vein does not run with the artery, but takes a straight course from the inner angle of the eye to the anterior border of the masseter. In this course it descends upon the levator labii superioris, then passes beneath the zygomatic muscles, over the termination of the parotid duct, and at the anterior border of the masseter passes over the jaw, behind the facial artery, and joins the internal jugular. The facial vein is a continuation of the frontal, which descends over the forehead, and, after receiving the supra-orbital, takes the name of' angular' at the corner of the eye. It communicates with the ophthalmic vein, receives the veins of the eyelids, the external parts of the nose, the coronary veins, and others from the muscles of the face. Near the angle of the mouth it is increased in size by a communicating branch from the infra-orbital vein, and by a large vein which comes from a venous plexus—^pterygoid plexus —deeply seated behind the superior maxillary bone. The other veins which empty themselves into the facial correspond with the branches given off from the facial artery. Artekia This artery arises from the temporal or the TRANSVERSALIS extcHial carotld in the substance of the parotid Faciei. gland. It runs forwards across the masseter * MM. Bernard and Brown-S^quard hare proved by experiment that if the branches of the. sympathetic, which accompany the facial artery, be divided, the capillary vessels of the face, being deprived of their contractile power, become immediately distended with blood, and the temperature of the face is raised.