194 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. symptoms of suffocation. From the root of the tongue to the anterior surface of the epiglottis, the membrane forms three folds, gLosso-epiglottic, one median, and two lateral, containing elastic tissue. From the epiglottis, to which it is intimately adherent, it is continued backwards on either side to the apices of the ary- tenoid cartilages, forming the aryteno-epiglottic folds which bound the entrance into the larynx. In the natural state it is of a pale rose colour, and covered by ciliated epithelium below the false vocal cords, above these by squamous epithelium. The mucous membrane of the larynx is remarkable for its acute sensibility. This is requisite to guard the upper opening of the larynx during the passage of the food over it. The larynx is closed during the act of deglutition; but if, during this process, anyone attempt to speak or laugh, the epiglottis is raised, and allows the food to pass, as it is termed, the wrong way. As soon as the foreign body touches the mucous membrane of the larynx, a spasmodic fit of coughing expels it. The sub-mucous tissue of the larynx is studded with mucous glands. An oblong mass of them lies in the aryteno-epiglottic fold, and they are particularly numerous about the ventricles of thelarynx. The surface of the epiglottis towards the tongue is abundantly pro- vided with them. Their ducts pass through the epiglottis, and may be recognised as minute openings on its laryngeal aspect. Superior This is the opening through which the larynx Opening of the communicates with the pharynx. Its outline is Larynx. triangular, with its base directed forwards, and it slopes from before backwards. Anteriorly it is bounded by the epiglottis, laterally by the aryteno-epiglottic folds and cuneiform cartilages, posteriorly by the arytenoid cartilages and the corni- cula laryngis. The apex presents the funnel-shape appearance from which the arytenoid cartilages derive their name. Look down into the larynx and observe the Opening of the triangular horizontal opening in the middle line; Larynx, or Eima this is the rima glottidis or glottis. Its apex is Glottidis. directed forwards, its base backwards. The an- terior two-thirds of this opening is bounded by the inferior or true