DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 635 The cornea consists of five layers, which are not STEt-cTURE. composed of the same kind of tissue. The most superjicial layer is the conjunctival. This consists of several strata of epithelial cells; the deeper ones, the more numerous, are columnar and placed vertically, the superficial ones are flattened scaly epithelium, cells, with well-marked nuclei. The second layer is about the 15^00 of an inch thick, and consists of a perfectly structureless lamina, which, when peeled off, has a remarkable tendency to curl. Boiling, or the action of acids, does not render it opaque, like the other layers of the cornea. The third layer {cornea proper) consists of translucent connective tissue, upon which the thickness and strength of the cornea mainly depend. The fibres are arranged in layers, about sixty in number. Between the laminse are irregularly branched spaces, called the cell-spaces of the cornea. In these spaces are lodged the corneal corpuscles, with outstanding processes, which communicate freely with each other, and correspond in shape to the spaces within which they lie. In inflammation of the cornea these corpuscles undergo consider- able changes.* The fourth layer is translucent, elastic and brittle, and may be easily separated from the preceding laminae. Like the second layer, it is unaffected by boiling or by the action of acids or alkalies, but is somewhat thinner, being from yoVo •3 ^ of an inch in thickness. It is termed the membrane of Descemet. In the sclerotic coat, close to its junction with the cornea, is situated a small oval canal, lined with epithelium, termed the sinus circularis iridis, or canal of Schlemm (fig. 161). It is probably a venous sinus, for it can always be injected from the arteries. The fifth la.yer consists of a single layer of polygonal epithelial cells, resembling those which line serous membranes.f In its healthy state the cornea contains no * If fluid be injected very gently into the cornea proper, there may be demon- strated a system of canals, called liecJclinghausen's canals, which are the communica- tions between the corneal corpuscles; but if the fluid be injected more forcibly, it passes in the course of the flbres composing the various laminjE of the cornea, which gives the appearance of a number of varicose and enlarged tubes crossing each other at right angles: these are termed Bowvian's corneal tubes. t For a detailed description of the structure see Todd and Bowman, 'Physio- logical Anatomy,'