PNEUMOGASTRIC IN THE CHEST. 14G ])liaryn.x. It supplies with motor nerves all the muscles which act upon the rima glottidis, except the crico-thyroid (supplied by the external laryngeal nerve). As they turn beneath their respective arteries, they give off branches to the deep cardiac plexus. h. Cardiac branches.—These are very small, and join the cardiac plexuses; the right arise from the right recuiTcnt laryngeal and the right pneumogastric, close to the trachea; the left come from the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. On both sides these branches pass to the deep cardiac plexus. c. Pulmonary branches.—These accompany the bronchial tubes. The greater number run behind the root of the lung, and constitute the posterior pulmonary plexus. A few, forming th^e anterior pul- monary plexus, supply the front part of the root of the lung. Both these plexuses are joined by filaments from the sympathetic system. The nerves of the lungs are, however, very small, and cannot be traced far into theii' substance.* d. CEsophageal plexus.—Below the root of the liing each pneumo- gastric nerve is subdi^dded so as to form an interlacement of nerves round tlie oesophagus (plexus gulae). From this plexus numerous filaments supply the coats of the tube; but the majority of them^ are collected into two nerves—the one, the continuation of the left pneumo- gastric nerve lying in front of the oesophagus ; the other, that of the right, lying behind it. Both nerves pass through the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm for the supply of the stomach.. Having- examined the contents of the posterior mediastinum from the right side, now do so from the left. The left lung should be turned out of its cavity and fastened by hooks towards the right side. After removing the pleura, we see the descending thoracic aorta, the pneumogastric nerve crossing the arch and sending the recurrent branch under it; also the first part of the left subclavian, covered externally by the pleura. The pneiuno- gastric nerve must be traced behind the root of the left lung to the oesophagus, and the oesophageal plexus of this side dissected. Lastly, notice the lesser vena azygos which crosses under the aorta about the sixth or seventh dorsal vertebra to join the vena azygos major. * Upon this subject, see the beautiful plates of Scarpa.