448 BLADDER, PROSTATE, URETHRA, AND PENIS. parts of the bladder, and more liable to the formation of pouches.* The development and colour of the muscular fibres depend upon how far the subject has suffered from imtation of the bladder, or any obstruction to the expulsion of the urine. The mucous coat is everywhere loosely connected to the muscular, except at the trigone of the bladder, where they adhere more firmly. The bladder must be laid open by an incision along its front, to examine its interior. In a recently contracted bladder, the mucous membrane is disposed in irregular folds, which disappear when the bladder is distended. In a healthy state, it is pale ; when inflamed, it becomes of a bright red. Under the microscope, its surface is seen to be studded with mucous follicles. These follicles secrete the thick ropy mucus in inflammation of the bladder. The vesical ^orifice of the urethra is situated at the lower and anterior part of the bladder, not at the most dependent part, which forms the pouch behind the orifice, in which urine is apt to accu- mulate in old persons. It appears small and contracted in the fresh bladder, but if the little finger be introduced into it, it will dilate considerably. Immediately behind the orifice there is, in some bladders, a slight elevation, called the uvula. It is composed of a portion of the mucous membrane raised up by an accumulation of the submucous tissue, but is rarely of sufficient size to interfere with the passage of the urine. This elevation must be dis- tinguished from enlargement of the third or middle lobe of the prostate. The orifices of the ureters are situated about an inch and a half behind the urethra, and about two inches apart. These tubes * These pouches arise in the following manner :—A portion of mucous membrane is protruded through one of the muscular interstices, so as to form a little sac. This is small at first, but gradually increases in size, because, having no muscubir coat, it has no power of emptying itself; generally speaking, several such sacs are met with in the same bladder; and they sometimes contain calculi. If a calculus, originally loose in the bladder, happen to become lodged in a pouch by the side of it, a sudden remission of the symptoms may ensue. This explains our frequent inability tu detect its presence at each examination with the sound.