DISSECTION OP THE BACK OP THE FOREARM. 333 the ulna. The muscular fibres turn over the neck and upper part of the shaft of the radius, and are iTiserted into the upper third of this bone, as far forwards as the ridge leading from the tubercle to the insertion of the- pronator, teres. The muscle is traversed obliquely by the posterior interosseous nerve, which sends a branch to it, and its upper part is in contact with the capsule .of the elbow-joint. It is a powerful supinator of the forearm, some of its fibres acting at nearly a right angle to the axis of the radius. Posterior This artery comes from the ulnar by a common Interosseous trunk with the anterior interosseous (p. 296), and Artery. supplies the muscles on the back of the forearm. It passes between the oblique ligament and the interosseous mem- brane, and appears, at the back, between the supinator radii brevis and the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. After supplying branches to all the muscles in this situation, the artery descends, much diminished in size, between the superficial and deep layer of muscles to the wrist, where it inosculates with the carpal branches of the anterior interosseous, and the posterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries. The largest branch of this artery is the interosseom recurrent. It ascends beneath the anconeus to the space between the external condyle and the olecranon, where it inosculates with the branch of the superior profunda, which descends in the substance of the triceps, and with the posterior ulnar recurrent artery. In the lower part of the back of the forearm, a branch of the anterior interosseous artery is seen passing through the interosseous membrane to reach the back of the wrist. Posterior nerve which supplies the muscles on the Interosseous back of the forearm is the postenor interosseous, Nebte. Qj^g Qf ^}jg divisions of the musculo-spiral. It passes obliquely through the supinator radii brevis, and descends between the superficial and deep layer of muscles on the back of the forearm, sending to each a filament, generally in company with a branch of the posterior interosseous arteiy. It sends a branch to the extensor carpi radialis brevier, and supplies the supinator brevis in passing through its substance. The supinator radii longus and