21 CERVICAL FASCIA. The small occipital n. comes from the second cervical nerve. It runs near the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle to the occiput, -where it supplies the back of the scalp, and communicates with the gi-eat occipital and the posterior auricular nerves. It also sends off a branch, which is distributed to the skin of the temporal region. Beneath the sterno-mastoid this nerve commonly forms a loop, which embraces the nervus accessorius, and sends a branch to it. The tramverse branch, called the superficial cervical n., comes from the second and third cervical nerves. It passes forwards over the sterno- mastoid muscle, and supplies the front of the neck. Some of its filaments ascend towards the jaw, and join the cervical branch of the facial nerve ; other filaments descend and supply the skin in front of the neck as low as the sternum. The descending branches are derived from the third and fourth cervi- cal nerves, and divide into three branches, which cross over the cla^^.cle, and supply the skin of the front of the chest and shoulder. Of these, one, called the sternal, supplies the skin over the upper part of the sternum; another, the clavicular, passes over the middle of the clavicle, and is distiibuted to the skin over the pectoral muscle, the mammary gland, and the nipple; the third, named acromial, crosses over the acromion to supply the skin of the shoulder. Eeviewing these cutaneous branches of the cervical plexus, we find that they have a very wide distribution, for they supply the skin covering the following parts—viz., the ear; the back of the scalp, the side of the cheek, the parotid gland, the front and side of the neck, the upper and front part of the chest and shoulder. Cervical Look for this branch beneath the fascia near Branch OF THE the angle of the jaw' (p. 92). It leaves the I'AciAL Nerve. parotid gland, and divides into filaments which curve forwards below the jaw; some of these join the transverse branch of the cervical plexus ; others supply the platysma. Deep Cervical Now turn your attention to the membranous Fascia. investment called the deep cervical fascia^ which encloses the several structures of the neck. In some subjects the fascia is very thin; in others, with strong muscles, it is pro- portionally dense and resisting. It is always stronger in par- ticular situations, for the more effective protection of the parts