DISSECTION OF THE HEAET. 162 pulmonary veins. Upon the septum between the auricles is a semilunar depression indicating the remains of the foramen ovale. At the lower and front part of the auricle is the auriculo-vent-ri- cular opening. It is oval, with its long axis nearly ■ transverse, and in the adult will admit the passage of two fingers. Left Yen- This occupies the left border, and forms the ™CLE. apex of the heart. One third of it only is seen on the anterior surface, the rest being on the posterior. To examine the interior, raise a triangular flap, with the apex below, from its front wall. Observe that its wall is about three times as thick as that of the right ventricle, and that this thickness gradually diminishes towards the apex. The interior of the left ventricle so closely resembles that of the right that there is no necessity to describe it in detail. The auriculo-ventHcular valve consists of only two principal flaps: hence its name mitral or bicuspid. The larger of these flaps is placed between the aortic and auriculo-ventricular orifices. There are only two musculi papillares; one attached to the anterior, the other to the posterior wall of the ventriele. They are thicker and their chordae tendinece stronger than those of the right ventricle, but their arrangement is precisely similar. From the upper and back part of the ven- tricle, a smooth passage leads to the orifice of the aorta. This orifice is placed in the groove between the two auricles, and some- what in front and to the right side of the left auriculo-ventricular opening. The two orifices are close together, and only separated by the larger flap of the mitral valve. The aortic orifice is guarded by three semilunar valves, of which the arrangement, structure, and mode of action are similar to those of the pulmonary artery. Their framework is proportionately stronger, consistently with the greater strength of the left ventricle, and the greater impulse of the blood. In the sinuses of Valsalva are observed the orifices of the two coronary arteries. The circumferences of the four orifices are Size of the aha- ^ AuBicuLo-YENTEi- as follows i that of the tricuspid orifice, 4-74 inches; cuLAE AND Akte- that of the mitral 4 inches; that of the pulmonary, BiAL Openings. 3.55 .^^j^gg. ^^^^ ^he aortic, 3-14 inches.* * Ur. Peacock, ' Croonian Lectures,' 1865.