161 DISSECTION OF THE HEART. without fibrous tissue; a thin tendinous cord runs along its free edge, to give it additional strength to resist the pressui'e of the blood. Behind each of the valves the artery bulges and forms three slight dilatations called the sinuses of Valsalva.* These, we shall presently see, are more marked at the orifice of the aorta. The action of these valves is plain. During the contraction of the ventricle the valves lie against the side of the artery, and offer no impediment to the current of blood ; during its dilatation, the elasticity of the distended artery would force back the column of blood, but that the valves, being caught by the refluent blood, bag, and fall together so as to close the tube. The greater the pressure, the more accurate is the closure. The coats of the artery are very elastic and yielding, while the valve, like the circumference to which it is attached, is quite unyielding; conse- quently, when the artery is distended by the impulse of the blood, its wall is removed from the contact of the free margin of the valves, and these are the more readily caught by the regm'gitating motion of the blood. The force of the reflux is sustained by the tendinous part of the valves, and by the muscular wall of the ventricle (probably in a state of contraction). The valves are capable of sustaining a weight of sixty-three pounds before they give way.f The thinner portions {lunulas) become placed so as to lie side by side, each one with that of the adjacent valve. This may be demonstrated by filling the artery with water. This is situated at the left side and posterior part of the base of the heart, and is somewhat smaller than the right auricle. It is quadrilateral and receives the four pulmonary veins, two on either side, which return the oxygenated blood from the lungs. From its upper and left side, the auricular appendage projects towards the right, cmiing over the root of the pulmonary artery. The auricle should be opened by a horizontal incision from one pulmonary vein to another: from this a second should be made into the appendix. Its interior, the atrium, is smooth and flat, excepting in the appendix, which contains the musculi pectinati. Notice the openings of the four * An Italian anatomist, b. 1666, d. 1723. j Haller. M