SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 60 Course and Relations of the Subclavian Arteries. The left subclavian artery dififers from the right, not only in its origin, but in the relations of the first part of its course. The right should, therefore, be examined first, and then the differences between it and the left. Eight Subcla- The right subclavian artery is one of the two TiAN Arteet. great branches into which the arteria innominata divides behind the sterno-clavicular joint. It runs outwards be- hind the scalenus anticus, then inclines downwards over the first rib, at the outer border of which it takes the name of axillary. The artery describes a curve, of which the greatest convexity is between the scalene muscles. The height to which the arch ascends varies. Generally, it rises higher in women than in men, on the right side than on the left. To study its relations more precisely, the course of the sub- clavian is divided into three parts : 1. The part which intervenes between its origin and the inner border of the scalenus anticus. 2. That which lies behind the scalenus. 3. That which intervenes between the outer border of the scalenus and the outer border of the first rib. The first portion of the artery lies deeply in the neck and passes upwards and outwards to the inner border of the scalenus anticus. It is covered by the skin, platysma, superficial and deep fascise, the sternal end of the clavicle, the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, and a layer of deep fascia, continued from the inner border of the scalenus anticus. It is crossed by by a filament from that branch of the brachial plexus which siipplies the subclavius muscle. It is important to be aware that cases sometimes occur in which this seem- ingly insignificant filament is a branch of considerable size, and forms the greater portion of the phrenic itself. We have met with many instances in which this acces- sory branch was larger than the regular trunk; in all of them it crossed over the subclavian artery in the third part of its course, and would probably hiive been injured in the operation of tying this vessel. That such an accident has actually happened is recorded by Bransby Cooper in his surgical lectures. He speaks of having injured this accessoi'y branch of the phrenic in lying the subclavian artery. The patient had incessant spasm of the diaphragm till he died.