PELVIC VISCERA IN THE FEMALE. 474 find that the tube runs very tortuously at first, then straight into the uterus, gradually contracting in size, so that the uterine orifice scarcely admits a bristle. Its mucous lining is gathered into longitudinal wavy folds, especially at the ovarian end, and is pro- vided with a columnar ciliated epithelium. The free end of the tube communicates with the cavity of the peritoneum. This is the only instance where a mucous membrane is directly con- tinuous with a serous one. It explains how the embryo may escape into the peritoneal cavity ; though this is an extremely rare occurrence. It also explains what is said to have occurred : namely, the escape of the fluid in dropsy through the Fallopian tubes. In a well-injected subject, the Fallopian tubes are seen to be well supplied with blood from the ovarian arteries. They are provided with non-striped muscular fibres: the outer layer being- arranged longitudinally; the inner, in circles. ^ The ovaries (called by Gralen, testes muliehres) are situated at the back of the broad ligament of the uterus, between its two layers, but more or less suspended by a short fold of peritoneum. Besides this, they are con- nected on their inner side to the uterus by a thin cord, called the ligament of the ovary.. They are oblong, with the long axis transverse, and a little smaller than the testicles. In females who have not often menstruated, their surface is smooth and even; in after-life, they become puckered and scarred by the repeated escape of the ova. The ovary is about an inch and a half long, and weighs about a drachm and a half. It has nearly the same coverings as the testicle: viz. a serous coat, which is covered with columnar epithelium, and beneath it a proper fibrous coat, the tunica albu- ginea. If a section be made through the ovary, you find that it contains transparent vesicles, embedded in a soft fibro-nuclear tissue, remarkably vascular when well injected, called the stroma of the ovary. The outer part of the ovary is chiefly occupied by these vesicles; the central part, in which there are very few, is composed almost entirely of the stroma. The transparent vesicles just alluded to are the ovisacs or