INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 109 composed of both sensory and motor filaments. At the base of the skull it presents two ganglia—the jugular and the petrous (ganglion of Andersch). The branches given ofif by these ganglia will be dissected hereafter; at present the student can only make out the branches which this nerve gives off in the neck, namely: Carotid branches, which surroimd the internal carotid artery, and commimicate with the pharyngeal branch of the pneumogastric and with the sympathetic. Pharyngeal branches, which form by the side of the middle constrictor of the pharynx, a plexus, the pharyngeal plexus, supplemented by filaments derived from the pneumogastric, the nervus accessorius, the external laryngeal, and the sympathetic. Its branches supply the constrictor muscles and the mucous membrane of the pharynx, the back of the tongue, and the tonsils. Muscular branches which enter the stylo-pharjnageus m. Tonsillar branches which are given to the soft palate and the tonsils forming a plexus (circulus tonsillaris). Lingual branches, which are distributed to the base and lateral aspects of the tongue. The styloid process must now be cut through at its base, and turned forwards with the muscles arising from it. The internal carotid artery will thus be exposed in the cervical region, as far as the carotid canal. The part of the artery contained within the carotid canal will be described hereafter. The internal carotid artei^ proceeds from the Carotid Abtery. Diturcation ot the common carotid at the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and ascends to the base of the skull by the side of the pharynx, close to the trans- verse processes of the three upper cervical vertebrae. It enters the skull through the carotid canal in the temporal bone, runs tortuously by the side of the body of the sphenoid, and terminates in branches which supply the orbit and the brain. In the cervical part of its course, it is situated immediately to the outer side of the external carotid artery, behind the inner border of the eterno- mastoid. It soon gets, beneath the external carotid, and lies deeply