47 SUBMAXILLAET EEGIOX. unlikely miss the artery and cut through the middle constrictor into the pharynx. The facial vessels must now be divided imme- DissECTioN. diately below the jaw. Eeflect the anterior^ belly of the digastricus from its insertion; detach the mylo-hyoideus from the middle line and the os hyoides, and turn it over the body of the jaw, taking care not to injure the muscle and structures beneath. The lower jaw must now be sawn through, a little to one side of the symphysis, and the bone drawn upwards by hooks. The tongue should then be drawn out of the mouth, and fastened by hooks. The os hyoides should be drawn down by means of hooks, so as to put the parts on the stretch. All this done, we have to make out, by carefully cleaning away the fat and connective tissue, the following objects represented in fig. 10, p. 48 : 1. Genio-hyoideus. 6. Sublingual gland. 2. Hyo-glossus. 7. Hypoglossal nerve. 3. Stylo-glossus. 8. Gustatory nerve. 4. Genio-hyo-glossus. 9. Submaxillary ganglion. 5. Submaxillary duet. 10. Lingual artery. Genio- The genio-hyoideus arises from the inferior HYoiDEus. tubercle behind the symphysis of the jaw, and is inserted into the front of the body of the os hyoides. This round muscle is situated in the mesial line, parallel to its fellow. Its nerve comes from the hypoglossal, and its blood from the lingual artery. Its action is to draw the os -hyoides forwards and upwards; and if the hyoid bone be fixed, it depresses the lower jaw. The hyo-glossus arises from the body, the Hto-glossus. . , , „ ^, 1 ■ 1 1 • greater and lesser cornua oi the os hyoides, and is inserted into the posterior two-thirds of the side of the tongue, its fibres blending with the stylo-glossus and palato-giossus. It is a square and flat muscle, and its fibres ascend nearly perpendicularly from origin to insertion.* Its nerve comes from the hypoglossal, and its blood from the lingual artery. Its action (with that of its * Some anatomists ascribe the following names to the uiiferent origins of tliis muscle: that from the body of the hyoid bone is termed tlie basio-glossus, that from the greater cornu the cerato-glossus, and that from the lesser cornu the chondro-ylossus.