DUBA MATEE. 6 infiltrated with pus and sloughs; hence the necessity of making incisions: for the scalp will not lose its vitality, and liberate the sloughs like the skin of other parts under similar conditions, because its vessels run above the diseased tissue, and therefore its supply of blood is not cut off. Lymphatics of The lymphatics of the scalp run for the most part THE Scalp. backwards towards the occiput; a few run towards the root of the zygoma, where they enter the lymphatic glands in those situations, respectively. Here, therefore, one finds glandular enlargements wlien the scalp is diseased. _ To examine the brain and its membranes, the Dissection. in skull-cap must be removed about half an inch above the supra-orbital ridges in front, and on a level with the occipital protuberance behind. It is better to saw only through the outer table of the skull, and to break through the inner with a chisel. In this way the dura mater and the brain are less likely to be injui-ed. On removing the skull we expose a tough fibrous membrane, the dura mater, which forms the most external of the membranes of the brain. The meningeal arteries ramify between the skull and the dura mater. We cannot, however, with the brain in situ, trace their course, at present, throughout; so their consideration must be deferred until the brain has been removed. ^ This membrane is so called because it was DuBA Matek. thought to give rise to all the other fibrous mem- branes in the body. It is a dense white fibrous membrane, rough on its outer aspect, where it is more or less adherent to the inner surface of the skull, forming its internal periosteum. On its inner surface it is smooth and shining, being lined by the parietal layer of the arachnoid membrane, which most a,natomists now describe as constituting a part of the dura mater. In consequence, the term ^subdural space^ is now substituted for the old one—Hhe cavity of the arachnoid.^ The dura mater differs in its adhesion to the subjacent bones : its adhesion is firmest at the sutures, the petrous portion of the temporal bone, tlie basilar process, the body of the sphenoid, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone,