MUSCLES ON THE FRONT OF THE LEG. 528 the anterior annular ligament, accompanies it to within an inch of its insertion; consequently it is opened when the tendon is divided for club-foot. The action of this muscle is to draw the foot upwards and inwards.* When the foot is the fixed point, it assists in balancing the body at the ankle. Its nerve comes from the anterior tibial. Extensor This^ muscle lies along the fibular side of the LoNGus DiGi- preceding. It arises from tlie external tuberosity TORtTM. ^£ ^j^g tibia, from the upper three-fourths of the inner surface of the fibula^ from the interosseous membrane, from the fascia and the intermuscular septa. Its fibres terminate in a penniform manner upon a long tendon, situated on the inner side of the muscle: this tendon descends in front of the ankle and divides into four slips, which pass to the four outer toes. They diverge from each other, and are inserted into the toes thus : —on the first phalanx^, each tendon (except that of the little toe) is joined on its outer side by the corresponding tendon of the ex- tensor brevis. The united tendons then expand, and are inserted as on the fingers ; that is, the middle part is inserted into the base of the second phalanx ; the sides run on to the base of the third (p. 329). Its nerve comes from the anterior tibial. Immediately below the ankle the anterior annular ligament forms a pulley through which the tendon of this muscle plays. It is like a sling, of which the two ends are attached to the os calcis, while the loop serves to confine the tendon. The play of the ten- don is facilitated by a synovial membrane, which is prolonged for a short distance along each of its four divisions. Besides its chief action, this muscle extends the ankle-joint.f Peeoneus This appears to be a portion of the preceding. Tertius. Jts fibres arise from the lower part of the inner surface of the shaft of the fibula, the interosseous membrane, and the intermuscular septum, and terminate on their tendon-like barbs * It is generally necessary to divide this tendon in distortion of the foot inwards, called talipes Tarns. t There is often a large bursa between the tendon of the extensor longus digi- torum and the outer end of the astragalus. This bursa sometimes communicateis with the joint of the head of the astragalus. *