64 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. ■with the handle of the scalpel on the inner side of the scalenus anticus, in front of the vertebral vein. Before tracing the branches of the subclavian artery, consider some points relating to the operation of tying it. To tie the artery in the first part of its course, namely, on the inner edge of the scalenus anticus, is an operation of great difficulty and danger, even with the parts in a normal position. The great depth at which the artery is placed, the size and close proximity of its numerous branches, the large veins by which it is covered, its connection with the pneumogastric, recurrent laryngeal, phrenic, and sympathetic nerves, and, above all, its close contiguity with the pleura, form a combination of circumstances so formidable that one cannot be surprised the operation has never been performed with a favourable result. In the second part of its course, between the scalene muscles, the artery is more accessible, although it is rarely ligatured in this situation. It would be necessary to divide the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, the cervical fascia, and the scalenus anticus, to reach the vessel; the phrenic nerve and the subclavian vein would be the chief objects exposed to injury. This operation was performed first and with success by Dupuytren in the year 1819. More recently it has been performed by Dr. Warren, of Boston. The patient recovered, though the pleura was wounded.* But in the last part of its course, that is, on the outer side of the scalenus, the artery may be tied with comparative facility. The incision should be made from three to four inches in length, parallel with the upper border of the clavicle. We divide the platysma, some of the supra-clavicular nerves, and the cervical fascia. The external jugular vein must be drawn to the outer side, or divided and tied at both ends. With the finger and the handle of the scalpel we then make our way down to the outer edge of the scalenus anticus, behind which the artery will be found lying upon the first rib. Eemember the tubercle on the inner edge of the rib which indicates the insertion of the scalenus : this * 'Med, Chirurg. Trans.,' vol. xxix. p. 25.