POSITION OF ABDOMINAL VISCERA. 373 bladder to the umbilicus; this is the urachus, which in foetal life is a tube connecting the bladder with the allantois. On either side of the urachus are two other folds inclosing cords which ascend obliquely towards the umbilicus : these are the im- pervious remains of the hypogastric arteries. Take now a survey of the viscera before they are disturbed from their relative positions. What is seen the right hypochondrium the liver is seen ON OPENING THE projectiug more or less below the cartilages of the AsnoiiEN. j.-|^g^ ^Yxe fundus of the gall-bladder below the edge of the liver, near the end of the ninth costal cartilage. In the left hypochondrium is seen more or less of the stomach according to its distension. Across the umbilical region extends a broad fold of the peritoneum containing fat, the great omentum, which descends from the lower curvature of the stomach, forming a ciurtain over the convolutions of the small intestine. The breadth of this fold varies; sometimes being so shrunk and crumpled as to be scarcely visible. The lower part of the abdomen and part of the pelvis are occupied by the small intestine. The urinary bladder is not apparent, unless distended sufficiently to rise out of the pelvis. In the right iliac fossa is the caput coli, the commencement of the large intestine; but the ascending part of the large intestine in the right lumbar region, and tlie descend- ing part of it in the left, are not visible unless distended : they lie contracted at the back of the abdomen. Such are the viscera usually seen on opening the abdomen ; but a certain latitude is to be allowed, as sometimes more of one organ is seen and less of another, according as this or that is distended or hypertrophied. Much also depends upon the amount of pressure which the ribs have undergone during life. Pabticulab The position of each viscus should now be ex- PosiTioN OF amined separately, and first .that of the stomach. EACH Viscus. rpj^g stomach is irregularly conical in shape. Its The Stomach. great end is situated in the left hypochondiium ; its narrow or pyloric end extends obliquely across the epigastrium into the right hypochondrium, where it is overlapped by the liver.