MUSCLES OP THE FOREARM:. 289 intermuscular septum; the other from the inner edge of the olecranon : these two origins form an arch, under which the ulnar nerve passes. It also arises from the upper two-thirds of the posterior edge of the ulna, through the medium of the aponeurosis, which is common to this muscle and the flexor profundus digi- torum. The tendon appears on the radial side of the rnuscle, about the lower third of the forearm, and receives fleshy fibres on its ulnar side as low as the wrist. It is inserted into the os pisi- forme, and thence by a strong tendon into the os unciforme and the base of the fifth metacarpal bone. Its nerve comes from the ulnar. The tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris is the guide to the ulnar artery, which lies close to its radial side, and is overlapped by it. As it passes over the annular ligament, the tendon furnishes a fibrous expansion to protect the ulnar artery and nerve. Flexok StTBLi- This muscle is situated beneath those previously MIS DiGiTOHUM. mentioned, and has two distinct origins. The longer origin takes place from the internal condyle, from the in- ternal lateral ligament, the common tendon, the intermuscular septa, and the coronoid process of the ulna; the shorter origin takes place by tendinous and fleshy fibres from an oblique ridge on the front of the radius, extending from the tubercle to about an inch below the insertion of the pronator teres. This, called its radial origin^ is partly concealed by the pronator teres. The muscle, thus formed, passes down the middle of the forearm, and divides into four distinct muscular slips : from these, four tendons arise, which pass beneath the annular ligament, arranged in two pairs ; the tendons of the middle and ring fingers being placed over those of the fore and little fingers. The tendons pass through the palm to the fingers, where they split to allow the passage of the deep flexor tendons, and are inserted into the sides of the second phalanges. Its action is, therefore, to bend the second joint of the fingers. The muscles described as arising from the internal condyle are all supplied by the median nerve, except the flexor carpi ulnaris, which is supplied by the ulnar. V