411 THE PELVIS AND ITS FUNCTIONS. DISSECTION OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. The functions of the pelvis are to protect its own viscera; to support those of the abdomen ; to give attachment to the muscles which steady the trunk ; to transmit the weight of the trunk to the lower limbs, and to give origin, to the muscles which move them. In adaptation to these functions, the form of the pelvis is that of an arch, with broadly expanded wings at the sides, and projections in appropriate situations to increase the leverage of the muscles. The sacrum, impacted between the ilia, repre- sents the key-stone of the areh, and is capable of supporting not only the trunk, but great burdens besides. The sides or pillars are represented by the ilia ; these transmit the weight to the heads of the thigh'-boneSj and are thickest and strongest just in that line, i.e. the brim of the pelvis, along which the weight is transmitted. Moreover!,- to effect the direct^ transmission of the weight, the plane of the arch is oblique. This obliquity of the pelvis, its hollow expanded sides, its great width, the position and strength of the tuberosities of the ischia, are so many proofs that man is adapted to the ereefc posture.- The general conformation of the pelvis-- in the female is modified, so as to be adapted to utero-gestation and parturition. Its breadth and capacity are greater tban in the malfe. Its depth is less. The alse of the iliac bones are more expanded. The projection of the sacrum is less perceptible, and consequently the brim is more circular. The span of the pubic arch is wider. The bones, too,, are tliinner, and the muscular impressions less strongly marked. The cavity of the pelvis being curved, the axis, or a central line drawn through it, must be curved in proportion. For all practical purposes, it is sufficient to remember that the axis of the pelvis corresponds with a line drawn from the anus to the umbilicus.* * In a well-formed female tlie base of the sacnim is about four inches higher tlian the upper part of the symphysis pubis, and the point of the coccyx is rather more than half an inch higher than the lower part of the symphysi«. The obliquity of the pelvis is greatest in early life. In the fcetus, and in young