SCALENE MUSCLES. 59 The scalene muscles are important agents in raising the thorax, in a deep inspiration. Take a deep breath, and you can easily feel them contracting. They can bend the cervical portion of the spine, if their lower attachment be the fixed point, as in rising from the recumbent position. The scalenus anticus is just one of those muscles about which we ought to know well all that lies in front of it, and all that lies behind it. In the front of it are, the clavicle, the subclavius, the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, the omo-hyoid, the phrenic nerve, the subclavian vein, the supra-scapular and posterior scapular arteries. Behind it are the subclavian arteiy, the five nerves which form the brachial plexus, and the pleura; to its inner side is the internal jugular vein. Make your finger familiar with the feel of the tubercle on the first rib, to which the scalenus anticus is attached. This tubercle is the guide to the subclavian artery, for it enables you to find the outer edge of the scalenus anticus, where you must look for the vessel. Is the scalenus anticus entirely concealed from view by the sterno-mastoid or not ? This will depend upon the breadth of the clavicular attachment of the sterno-mastoid. As a general rule, it may be said that the scalene muscle is concealed by the sterno-mas- toid, and that consequently, in tying the subclavian artery, it may be necessary to divide partially the clavicular origin of the muscle. ^ The phrenic nerve runs down in front of the Pheenic Neete. scalenus anticus, from the outer to the inner border. It arises from the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves, but chiefly from the fourth. It enters the chest between the subclavian artery and vein, crosses in front of the internal mam- mary artery, and continues its coirrse between the pericardium and pleura, in front of the root of the lung, to the diaphragm, which it supplies. When the spinal cord is injured above the fourth cervical ver- tebra, the origin of the phrenic is implicated; therefore the dia- phragm, as well as the other muscles of inspiration, are paralysed. Death is the immediate result.* * The phrenic nerve is joined by a filament from the sympathetic, and frequently