PENIS. 45G altered in character, is reflected over the glans, to which it is intimately adherent, and at the orifice of the urethra is continuous with the mucous membrane. The surface of the gians is covered with minute vascular papillae, endowed with keen sensibility by the dorsal nerves of the penis. Eound its margin—termed the corona glandis—are a number of minute sebaceous glands, which secrete a substance called smegma preputii. The bulk of the penis consists of two cylindrical bodies, of erectile structure, named from the appearance of their interior corpora cavernosa. In a groove along their under surface is lodged a third cylindrical body, the corpus spongiosum, composed of vascular spongy tissue, through which runs the urethra ; an ex- pansion of this at the end of the organ forms the glans. These structures, then—the corpora cavernosa and the corpus spongiosum —together form the penis ; though the corpus spongiosum appears closely united to the corpora cavernosa, yet it is quite distinct from them, as shown in the transverse section (fig. lOS). The upper part of the penis is connected to the symphysis pubis by an elastic triangular ligament, called Ugamentum sus- pensorium penis. Corpora The corpora cavernosa constitute more than Catebnosa. two-thirds of the bulk of the penis. Each com- mences posteriorly by a gradually tapering portion, called the cms penis, which is attached along a groove in the rami of the ischium and pubes, where it is embraced by the erector penis (p. 420). The two crura converge, come into apposition at the root of the penis, and then run together side by side to form the body of the organ. Anteriorly, each terminates in a rounded extremity, received into a corresponding depression in the glans, to which it is con- nected by fibrous tissue. A section through the corpus cavernosum shows that its inte- rior is composed of a delicate reticulai* structm-e, surrounded by a white fibrous and elastic coat, from half a line to a line in thickness. The septum pectiniforme is a median vertical partition