657 DISSECTION OF THE OEGAN OF HEARING. scalce, are separated is termed the lamina spiralis. In the dry bones this partition is only partial; but in the recent state it is completed by a membrane. The spiral canal is about the -J^ of an incli in diameter, and is about one inch and a half long, and, after making two turns and a half, terminates at the ajjex of the cochlea in a rounded dome, the cupola. Here the partition dis- appears, and is called the helicotrema, so that the two scal^ com- municate with each other in this situation. These tubes are called the scales of the cochlea, and are filled with fluid. The upper one, the scala vestibuli, opens into the vestibule; the lower one, rather the larger of the two, is called the scala tym- pani, and leads to the membrane which closes the foramen ro- tundum of the tympanum. At its commencement there is the opening of the aqueductus cochleae, which transmits a small branch to the jugular vein. The central pillar of the cochlea is called the modiolus. It is of considerable thickness at the base, but gradually tapers towards the apex. Its interior is traversed by numerous canals, which transmit small vessels and nerves to the lamina spiralis. One of these canals, larger than the others, runs down the centre of the modiolus nearly to the apex, and transmits a small artery, the arteria centralis modioli. The" lamina spiralis, the partition between the two tubes or scales of the cochlea, is made up, on the inner half, of bone, {lamina spiralis os,sea); on the outer half, of membrane, which, as wiU. be presently described, consists of two layers. The lamina spiralis ossea ends at the cupola in a hook-line process, the hamulus. On a vertical section it is seen to be composed of two plates, between which the structure is spongy, and presents a number of small canals for the passage of the small filaments of the cochlear division of the auditory nerve in their course to the membranous part of the lamina. Winding round the modiolus, close to the attachment of the lamina spiralis ossea, is a small canal, called the canalis spiralis modioli. Mejibranous If the bony labyrinth just described be properly Labyrinth. understood, there will not be much difficulty in u u