PEEITONEUM. 383 a ruffle, inclosing the small intestine from the beginning of the jejunum to the end of the ileum. We must trace between its two layers, the mesenteric vessels, nerves, glands, and lymphatics. Teansvebse This broad fold connects the transverse colon to Meso-colon, the back of the abdomen. It forms an imperfect partition dividing the abdomen into an upper compartment, con- taining the stomach, liver, and spleen; and a lower, containing the convolutions of the small intestines. As regards the caecum, the ascending and descending portions of the colon, they are, as a general rule, bound down by the peritoneum in their respective situations (fig. 79). The peritoneum covers only two-thirds or thereabouts of their anterior surface; their posterior surface is con- nected by loose cellular tissue to the back of the abdomen.* The colon, ascending or descending, can therefore be opened in the lumbar region, below the kidney, without injury to the peritoneum: a fact upon which is founded the operation of colotomy for the relief of stricture of the rectum. Gbeat This broad peritoneal fold is composed of four Omentum. layers, and proceeds from the lower border of the stomach, like a curtain over the convolutions of the small intestine. Its thickness varies considerably; in thin subjects it is often translucent; in corpulent persons, on the other hand, it is loaded with fat, and contributes in great measure to the size of the abdomen. Its length also varies. In some bodies we find it extending low into the pelvis; in others, small and crumpled. Gastro- This fold passes from the transverse fissure on HEPATIC OR the under surface of the liver to the upper curve Lesser Omentum, ^-^^ stomach. It is composed of two layers, and between them are the portal vein and hepatic artery with the nerves going to the liver, and the hepatic duct and lymphatics coming from it. The right border of this fold is free, while the left passes on to the oesophagus. In this fold the bile-duct lies to the right, the hepatic artery to the left, and the vena portse behind and between * In some (rare) cases, the ascending and descending colon (more commonly the latter) are completely surrounded by peritoneum, and connected to the lumbar regions, respectively, by a right and left lumbar meso-colon.