533 GLUTEAL REGION. peroneus longus and the extensor longus digitorum ; 4. Branches, which supply the peronei (longus and brevis) muscles. If, then, the peroneal nerve were divided in the popliteal spa(ie, the result would be paralysis of the tibialis anticus, the_ extensors of the toes—long and short—and all the peronei. DISSECTION OF THE GLUTEAL KEGION. The body having been placed on its face, the pelvis is to be raised to such a height by blocks placed beneath it, that the lower extremities hang down over the end of the table. Then rotate the thighs inwards as much as possible, and cross them. The incision through the skin should commence at the coccyx, and be continued in a semicircular direction along the crest of the ilium. Another incision should be made from the coccyx down- wards and outwards for about six inches below the great trochanter. In reflecting the skin, notice the thick cushion which the sub- cutaneous adipose tissue forms over the tuberosity of the ischium. A large bursa is often formed between the cushion and the bone. Cutaneous These are derived from several sources. The Nerves. posterior divisions of the first and second lumbar nerves descend over the crest of the ilium, near the origin of the erector spinse, to supply the skin over the gluteus maximus as far as the great trochanter. Internal to these, are the posterior branches of the three upper sacral nerves, which are distributed to the integument over the sacrum and coccyx. Over the middle of the crest, come the lateral branches of the tiuelfth dorsal, and posterior to it, the iliac branch of the ilio-hypogastric. Other cutaneous nerves ascend from below; they are branches of the lesser ischiatic, and proceed from beneath the lower border of the gluteus maximus. Lastly, some branches from the external cutaneous nerve of the thigh are seen on the outer side of this region. Glutkal Three powerful muscles are situated in the Muscles. region of the buttock, one above the other, named, according to their size, the gluteus maximus, medius, and minimus.