406 EXTERNAL ILIAO AETERY. front of the psoas. Lower down it passes under the crural arch, midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, and takes the name of femwal. The artery has in front of it the peritoneum, and intestine; and, just above Poupart's ligament, the deep circumflexa ilii vein, the spermatic vessels, and the vas deferens. On its inner side, and on a plane somewhat posterior, is the corresponding vein. The iliac fascia lies behind the vessels, but a thin layer of fascia derived from it is continued over them. In front of the artery are a chain of lymphatic glands. The branches given off by this artery ai'e :— The deep epigastric, already described (p. 366). The deep circumfiexa ilii, which arises from the outer side of the artery, just above the crural arch, and running towards the anterior superior spkie of the ilium in a sheath formed by the fascia iliaca, subsequently perforates the transversalis muscle.* In the dissection of the abdominal muscles (p. 367), the continuation of it was seen skirting the crest of the ilium between the internal oblique and the transversalis, and sending a branch upwards be- tween these muscles for their supply. The main trunk, much reduced in size, inosculates with the ilio-lumbar derived from the internal iliac. LiGATTJBB OF The best way of tying the external iliac is to THE External make a cmwed incision at the lower part of the Iliac. abdomen,, beginning a little above the middle of the crural arch, and ending about an inch to the inner side of the spine of the ilium. The strata of the abdominal muscles, with the fascia transversalis, should then be divided to the same extent; after which, the peritoneum with the spermatic vessels must be separated by the fingers from the iliac fossa. It is necessary to make a small incision thi'ough the sheath of the vessel, to facilitate the passage of the needle. Eemember that the vein is closely connected to^ its inner side,t that the genito-crural nerve is not * The course of this artery should be borne in mind in opening iliac abscesses, t Tliis relative position of the vessels does not always exist. In old subjects, lean frequently in adults, it is sometimes found that the external iliac artery runs very