369 ANATOMY OP PARTS CONCERNED IN HERNIA. is called an incomplete inguinal hernia; if, however, the pro- trusion has emerged through the external ring, it is called a com- plete inguinal hernia ; and, lastly, if it descends into the scrotum, it is called a scrotal hernia. Direct Lvgui- The intestine, however, does not always escape NAL Hernia. through the internal ring. Sometimes it protrudes internal to the deep epigastric artery through a triangular weak place, bounded on the inner side by the rectus, on the outer side by the deep epigastric artery, and below by Poupart's ligament. This space* is relatively weak, having in front of it only the fascia transversalis and the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis ; moreover, it is situated immediately behind the ex- ternal abdominal ring. A portion of .intestine protruding through this triangle comes directly forwards through the external ring, and the hernia is then called a direct inguinal hernia. Coverings of complete oblique inguinal' hernia, passing as AN Oblique In- it does through the samtc structures as the testis GuiNAi Hernia, foetal lifcj receives the same coverings as that gland; they are:— 1. The skin and the superficial fascia. 2. The intercolumnar fascia, derived from the external oblique. 3. The cremaster derived from the internal oblique and transA'ersalis.f 4. The infundihuliform fascia, derived from the fascia transversalis. 5. The subperitoneal fat, and the peritoneum which constitutes the sac. An incomplete oblique inguinal hernia is covered by— 1. The skin and superficial fascia. 2. The aponeurosis of the external oblique. 3. The cremaster. 4. The infunclibuliform fascia. 5. The subperitoneal fat and the peritoneum. Coverings of a ^ direct inguinal hernia protrudes immediately direct Inguinal on the inner side of the epigastric artery through Hernia. ^j^g external ring; and its course forwards is mainly * Sometimes called Hesselbach's triangle, f The cremaster muscle is absent in the female. B B