AETEEIES OF THE SCALP. 3 of skin produced by drawing backwards the front part of the helix. It arises from the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis, and is in- serted into the front of the helix. M. EETRAHEN3 Tfais musclc Is exposed by reflecting the skin AuREM. from the ridge produced by drawing the pinna forwards. It proceeds from the base of the mastoid process to the lower part of the concha. The retrahens and the attollens aurem are supplied by the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve ; the attrahens, by an offset from the temporal branch of the same nerve. Aktehies of The arteries of the scalp are derived, in front, ScAip. from the sujpra-orbital and frontal arteries, branches of the ophthalmic artery which is a branch of the internal carotid; on the sides, from the temporal; behind, from the occi- pital and posterior auricular, all branches of the external carotid. The jrontal emerges from the orbit at its inner angle; it runs up- wards for a short distance and inosculates with the following artery. The supra-orhital passes through the supra-orbital notch and dis- tributes branches, some of which ascend towards the top of the head and communicate with the temporal ai-tery. The temporal, about an inch and a half above the zygoma, divides into two branches—an anterior and a posterior. The anterior mns forwards in a toituous course and anastomoses with the supra-oi'bital artery; the posterior (usually the larger) arches backwards over the ear, and its branches communicate with the corresponding branch of the opposite side and with the occipital and posterior auricular arteries. The posterior auricular is a small vessel seen in the cleft between the ear and the mastoid process : it ascends, and divides into two branches : one, which passes backwards and inosculates with the occipital, the other, which runs forwards above the ear and communicates with the temporal artery. The occipital may be noticed piercing the trapezius near to the extemal occipital protuberance ; ascending over the back of the head, it divides into numerous branches which inosculate with the preceding artei-ies. The veins of the scalp accompany their respective arteries. B 2