URETHRA. PENIS. 455 direction as the stream of the urine. Most of them are on the lower surface of the urethra ; but one, called lacuna magna, is on the upper surface, about one inch and a half down the canal. Beneath the mucous membrane of the urethra is a layer of areolar tissue, the submucous tissue, external to which is a layer of vascular tissue of variable thickness; outside this is a layer of unstriped muscular fibres. It has been demonstrated that the m-ethra is surrounded throughout its whole course by muscular fibres of the involuntary kind. Therefore, the whole of the canal having a muscular coat similar to an intestine, any part of it is liable to spasmodic contraction. The urethra is lined by columnar stratified epithelium, except near the glans, where there are papillae, covered with squamous epithelium ; this, therefore, is the most sensitive part. Lastly, the urethra is provided with a closely-set network of lymphatic vessels, which has been demonstrated by quicksilver injections,* TJiey run from behind, forwards, and join the lym- phatics of the glans penis. Eventually, their contents are trans- mitted down the great trunks on the dorsum penis to the inguinal glands. This explains the pathology of a bubo. The skin of the penis is remarkably thin and The Penis. extensible, and connected to the body of the organ by loose areolar tissue, destitute of fat. At the extremity the skin forms the prepuce, or foreskin, for the protection of the glans; f and the thin fold which passes from the under surface of the glans to the prepuce is called frcenum preputii. The skin, * Panizza, ' Osservazioni antropo-zootom.' &c, Pavia, 1830. This anatomist has also displaj'ed by injections an extremely fine network of lymphatics which cover the glans penis. The interstices of this network are smaller than the diameter of the tubes. f When the foreskin is, from birth, so tight that the glans cannot be uncovered, such a state is called a congenital phimosis. This condition occasions no inconveni- ence in childhood, but is apt, after puberty, to become troublesome and painful, so that it may become necessary to slit up the prepuce and set the glans at liberty. In persons who have a tight foreskin, it sometimes happens that, when the glans has been uncovered, the prepuce cannot be again drawn over it: this is called a para- phimosis. The neck of the glans becomes tightly girt; great distension and in- flammation are the consequences unless the foreskin be reduced.