580 ANTEEIOR TIBIAL AETEET. course. In the upper third of the leg it lies deeply between the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum ; in the lower two- thirds, between the tibialis anticus and the extensor proprius poUicis. In front of the anJcle the artery is crossed by the extensor proprius polliciSj.and lies between the tendon of this muscle and the inner tendon of the extensor longus digitorum. The artery is accompanied by the anterior tibial nerve (a branch of the peroneal), which runs for some distance upon its fibular side, then in front of it, and lower down is again situated on its outer side. It is accompanied by two veins, one on each side, which communicate at intervals by cross branches. The branches of the anterior tibial are as follows :— a. The recurrent branch ascends close by the outer side of the head of the tibia, through the tibialis anticus, to the front of the knee-joint, where it inosculates with the other articular, arteries derived from the popliteal. b. Irregular muscular hraxLch.es, in its course down the leg. c. The malleolar branches, external and internal, ramify over the ankle : the external^ descending beneath the tendon of the extensor longus digitorum, ramifies on the external malleolus, inosculating with the anteiior peroneal and the tarsal arteries; the internal jiasses beneath the tibialis anticus, and anastomoses with the posterior tibial. They supply the joint, the articular ends of the bones, and the sheaths of the tendons around them. ExTBNsoB This muscle is situated on the dorsum of the Bretis Digi- foot, beneath the long extensor tendons of the toes. TORUM. 1^ arises from the outer part of the os calcis, from the ligament uniting this bone to the astragalus, and from the anterior annular ligament. The fibres run obliquely over the foot, and terminate in four tendons, which pass forwards to the four inner toes. The inner one is inserted' by an expanded tendon into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe ; the others join the fibular side of the long extensor tendons to be in- serted with them into the second and ungual phalanges. The tendon to the great toe crosses over the dorsal artery of the foot. It is supplied by a branch of the anterior tibial nerve.