PE^CORDIAL REGION. 137 connected to the left bronchus. The object of these serous reflec- tions is to facilitate the free action of the heart and the great vessels at its base. In the healthy state, the capacity of the pericardium nearly corresponds to the size of the heart when distended to its utmost. The healthy pericardium, with the heart in situ, may ber made to hold, in the adult, about ten oimces of fluid. The pericardium is not extensile. When an aneurysm bursts into it, death is caused, not by loss of blood, but by compression of the heart in consequence of the inextensibility of the pericardium. The pericardium derives its blood from the internal mammary, bronchial, and oesophageal arteries. On separating the left pulmonary artery and pulmonary vein, you will notice a fold of serous membrane about three-quarters of an inch long and about one inch in depth : this is the vestigial- fold of the pericardium, described by Marshall.* It passes from the side of the left auricle to the left superior intercostal vein. It is a vestige of the left v. c. superior which exists in foetal life. Open the pericardium, and observe that the heart is conical in form, and convex everywhere except upon its lower surface, which is flat, and rests upon the tendinous centre of the diaphragm. When the pericardium is thus laid open, the following objects are exposed : viz. 1. Part of the right ventricle ; 2. Part of the left ventricle ; 3. Part of the right auricle with its appendix over- lapping the root of the aorta; 4. The appendix of the left auricle overlapping the root of the pulmonary artery; 5. The aorta; 6. The pulmonary artery; 7. The vena cava superior ; 8. The right and left coronary arteries. Position of The heart then, placed behind the lower half THE Heart— of the sternum, occupies more of the left than the coimiTOBD. right half of the chest, and rests upon the ten- dinous centre of the diaphragm, which is a little, below the lowest part of the fifth rib. At each contraction the apex of the heart may be felt beating between the cartilages of the fifth * 'Philosoph, Transactions,' 1850.