Ill PNEUMOGASTRIC NERVE. cerebral nerves. It arises froni the medulla oblongata by a series of roots, twelve to fifteen in number, along the restiform tract. It passes out of the skull in a common sheath with the nervus accessorius through the foramen jugulare. Leaving the skull at the foramen jugulare, the nerve descends in front of the cervical vertebrae, lying successively upon the rectus capitis anticus major and the longTis colli. In the upper part of the neck it is situated behind the internal carotid artery : lower down, it lies between and behind the common carotid and the internal jugular vein. It enters the chest, on the right side, crossing in front of the subclavian artery nearly at a right angle ; on the left, running nearly parallel with it. In their course through the chest, the pneumogastric nerves have not similar relations. The right nerve lies beneath the subcla- vian vein, and then descending behind the right brachio-cephalic vein by the side of the trachea, is continued behind the right bronchus to the posterior part of the oesophagus. ^Qie left nerve passes behind the left brachio-cephalic vein, then crosses in front of the arch of the aorta, and behind the left bronchus to the anterior part of the oesophagus. Both nerves subdivide on the oesophagus into a plexus ; the right nerve forming the posterior oesophageal plexus, the left the anterior. Each plexus again collects its fibres together to form a single trunk : thus two main nerves are formed which pass with the oesophagus through the diaphragm: of these the right is distributed over the posterior^ the left over the anterior surface of the stomach.* In their long course from the medulla oblongata to the abdo- men, the pneumogastric nerves supply branches to most important organs ; namely, to the pharynx, the larynx, the heart, the lungs, the oesophagus, the stomach, and the liver. Within the foramen jugulare a small ganglion—ganglion of the root—(Arnold's ganglion) is situated upon the pneumogastric * The differences in the course and destination of the right and the left pneumo- gastric nerves may be explained in the process of development. The student is therefore referred to Tporks which treat of this subject.