346 RADIO-CARPAL JOINT. band of fibres, which extends obliquely between the bones of the forearm in a direction contrary to those of the interosseous membrane. It is attached, superiorly, to the front surface of the ulna, near the outer side of the coronoid process ; inferiorly, to the radius immediately below the tubercle. Between this ligament and the upper border of the interosseous membrane is a triangular interval through which the posterior interosseous artery passes to the back of the forearm. A bursa intervenes between the oblique ligament and the insertion of the tendon of the biceps. The use of this ligament is to limit supination of the radius. Eadio-caepal This joint is formed by the lower end of the OR Wrist-joint. radius, which articulates with the scaphoid and semilunar bones of the carpus: the lower end of the ulna is ex- cluded from the joint by a triangular fibro-cartilage, which articu- lates with a small portion of the cuneiform bone. The joint is secured by an anterior, a posterior, and two lateral ligaments. The external lateral ligament extends from the styloid process of the radius to the scaphoid bone, to the anterior annular ligament, and to the trapezium. The internal lateral ligament proceeds from the extremity of the styloid process of the ulna to the cuneiform bone. Some of its fibres are attached to the pisiform bone and the anterior annular ligament. The anterior ligament consists of two or more broad bands of ligamentous fibres, which extend from the lower end of the radius to the first row of carpal bones. The posterior ligament, weaker than the preceding, proceeds from the posterior surface of the lower end of the radius, and is attached to the posterior surfaces of the first row of carpal bones. The synovial membrane lines the under surface of the trian- gular fibro-cartilage at the end of the ulna, is reflected over the several ligaments of the joint, and thence upon the first row of the carpal bones. Inferior "^^^ inner Surface of the lower end of the radius Radio-ulnab presents a slight concavity, which rotates upon Articulation. the convex head of the ulna: this mechanism is