STEUCTURE OF THE LIVEE. 479 form the inter-lohular or peripheric veins (fig. 108). The inter- lobular veins give off a minute Fig. io9. capillary network -which penetrates into the interior of the lobules and freely communicates in the centre with a sinole trunk called the intra- lobular or central vein,- This cen- tral vein returns the blood from the lobule, and opens immediately into a sub-lobular vein, larger or smaller longitudinal sections of the , 1 • 1 .1 10BTJI.ES OF THE LIVEE. INTRA- as the case may be, upon which the lobular teins seen joining the lobule is sessile (fig. 109). The sub- sub-iobular. lobular veins empty themselves into the smaller hepatic veins ; these unite to form the main hepatic trunks which open into the inferior vena cava. The hepatic-artery, entering the liver at the transverse fissure, divides and subdivides with the portal vein and the biliary ducts, and ramifies with them between the lobules. The artery distri- butes branches which supply the coats of the hepatic vessels and Glisson's capsule—vaginal branches—and the capsule of the liver —capsular branches ; other branches pass into the lobules and join the capillary network which leads to the radicles of the cen- tral vein. The minute capillary network which forms the basis of the lobule radiates from the periphery to the centre. The capillaries average about -25V0 inch. The biliary ducts form a close network round the circum- ference of each lobule. From this network of biliary capillaries branches proceed on all sides, and accompany the portal vein. Doubt still exists as tO' the commencement of the ducts. The prevalent opinion is that they begin within the lobules by a minute plexus, surrounded by hepatic cells. The interior of each lobule— that is, the space left between the several vessels—is filled by the hepatic cells. They are nucleated,, and have a diameter vary- ing from -g-l-o to j-o^oQ- of an inch. They contain more or less granular-matter, and in some cases fat-globules: when these