88 PAEOTID GLAND. • between the parotid duct and the zygoma, and is distributed to the glandula socia parotidis, and the masseter. It anastomoses with the infra-orbital and facial. It is seldom of large size, except when it supplies those parts which usually receive blood from the facial. We have seen it as large as a goose-quill, furnishing the coronary and the nasal arteries; the facial itself not being larger than a sewing thread. The parotid gland is now to be examined. Its boundaries, its deep relations, the course of its duct, and the objects contained within the gland, must be carefully observed. Pakotid The parotid, the largest of the salivary glands, ^^ND. occupies the space between the ramus of the jaw and the mastoid process. It is bounded above by the zygoma; below, by the sterno-mastoid and digastric muscles ; behind, by the meatus auditorius externus and the mastoid process; in front, it lies over the ascending ramus of the jaw, and is prolonged for some distance over the masseter. It is separated from the submaxillary gland by the stylo-maxillary ligament; sometimes the two glands are directly continuous. The superficial surface of the gland is flat, and covered by a strong layer of fascia, a continuation of the cervical. It not only surrounds the gland, but sends down numerous partitions which form a framework for its lobes. The density of this sheath explains the pain caused by inflammation of the gland, the tardiness with which abscesses within it make their way to the surface, and the propriety of an early opening. The deep surface of the gland is irregular, and moulded upon the subjacent parts. Thus, it passes inwards between the neck of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament; it extends upwards and occupies the posterior part of the glenoid cavity; below, it reaches the styloid process, and sometimes penetrates deep enough to be in contact with the internal jugular vein. That portion of the gland which lies on the masseter muscle is called glandula socia parotidis. It varies in size in different subjects; and is situated chiefly above the parotid duct, into which it pours its secretion by one or two smaller ducts. /