DISSECTION or THE EYE. 642 Minute Struc- Although to the naked eye the retiua appears TURK OF THE a simplc, soft, semi-transparent membrane, yet, Eetina. when examined under the microscope, it is found to be most minutely and elaborately organised. It varies in thickness from the to the of an inch, being thickest behind and gradually diminishing towards the front. It consists of eight layers, through which may be traced a considerable amount of extremely delicate connective tissue (fibres of Miiller), which constitutes a scaffolding for the various strata, and is said to form for them two more or less continuous boundary lines termed membrance limitantes, interna and externa. The layers are as follows, beginning fi-om within :— 1. The layer of nerve-fibres is composed of the spreading out of the optic nerve-fibres and of connective-tissue cells. The nerve- fibres, consisting only of the axis-cylinders, run forwards as a con- tinuous layer, and, in fact, become connected with the nerve-cells of the next layer. The fibres are absent on the yellow spot. 2. The ganglionic layer is a single stratum of spheroidal nerve-cells : from the deeper part of each cell there is given off an elongated process, which passes obliquely into the nerve-fibre layer, with which it becomes incorporated ; from the opposite side of the cell two or more processes pass outwards and become lost in layer No. 3. The ganglionic cells which, in the greater extent form a single layer, are at the yellow spot arranged eight or ten deep. 3. The inner molecular layer is a granular stratum of con- siderable thickness, with a structureless matrix. - In it are found, also, the processes of the cells of the preceding layer, and some varicose filaments which pass inwards from the next stratum. 4. The inner nuclear layer is said to contain three or four kinds of cells, some of which belong to the Mullerian or connect- ing tissue fibres of the retina ; others, the more numerous, are bipolar nerve-cells. It is hard to give an intelligible description of this layer, so long as even experts make such diflferent state- ments concerning it. 5. The outer molecular or internuclear layer resembles in most respects the inner molecular layer, but is much thinner.