VENA CAVA—COMMON ILIAC ARTERIES. 404 anastomose, laterally, with the ilio-lumbar and circumflex iliac arteries, and, in front, with the internal mammary and epigastric arteries. The lumbar veins empty themselves into the vena cava in- ferior. The arteria sacra media, a diminutive continuation of the aorta, proceeds from its bifurcation, and runs down in front of the sacrum to the coccyx. It sends off the fifth lumbar artery, and lateral branches, which anastomose with the lateral sacral arteries; it also supplies small vessels to the posterior part of the rectum. Its vein empties itself either into the left common iliac vein, or into the inferior vena cava. In animals it is the artery of the tail. Vena Cava The vena cava inferior is formed by the junction Infeeiob. of the two common iliac veins, a little to the right side of the fifth lumbar vertebra. It ascends on the right of the aorta, close to the spine in the greater part of its course. As it approaches the diajDhragm, the vena cava inclines a little to the right, separated from the aorta by the right crus, to go through its tendinous opening in the diaphragm, and reach the right side of the heart. Its relations, beginning from below, are—in front, the mesentery, the third part of the duodenum, the pancreas, the liver, and the right spermatic artery ; behind it are the right renal artery, the right lumbar arteries, and the sympathetic of the right side. It receives the lumbar veins, the right spermatic (the left joins the renal), the renal, the capsular, the right phrenic, and the hepatic veins. Common Iliac The aorta divides, in front of the fourth lumbar Aetekies and vertebra, into two great branches, termed the com- Veins. mon iliac arteries. They diverge at an acute angle, and, after a course of about two inches, each divides over the sacro- iliac symphysis, into the external and internal iliac. They lie upon the bodies of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrse. They are covered by peritoneum, and crossed, at or near their division, by the ureters. They are also crossed by branches of the sympathetic on their way to the hypogastric plexus. So far, then, the relations