DISSECTION OP THE EYE. G44 The arteria centralis retinou, after emerging through the poms opticus, divides into two branches—an upper and a lower— which then form a delicate network of blood-vessels throughout the nerve-fibre layer, penetrating as far as the inner nuclear layer, beyond which no capillaries can be traced. After maceration in water, the nervous substance can be removed with a camel's hair brush, and then in an injected eye the network formed by the vessels can be distinctly seen. The arteries of the retina do not communicate directly with the choroidal vessels. Structuee of '^^^ various layers of the retina are thinner at THE Macula the fovea, except the cones, which are much elon- LuTEA AND FoTEA gatcd. It Is dcstitute of rods and of the nerve- Centbazis. ^Y)re layer. At the margin of the fovea most of the layers are thicker than elsewhere. AQTIE0T7S The aqueous humour consists of a few drops of Humour. an alkaline clear watery fluid, which fills the space between the cornea and the lens.* The iris lies in it, and divides the space into two chambers of unequal size—an anterior and a posterior. The posterior is much the smaller of the two ; indeed, the iris rests on the capsule of the lens, so that, strictly speaking, there is no interval between the opposed surfaces, hence no such space really exists. This accounts for the frequent adhesions which take place during inflammation of the iris, between the iris and the capsule of the crystalline lens.f A delicate layer of epithelium covers the posterior surface of the cornea, but nothing like a con- tinuous membrane can be demonstrated on the iris or the capsule of the lens. The anterior chamber is remarkable for the rapidity with which it absorbs and secretes, as is proved, in the one case, by the speedy removal of extravasated blood; in the other, by the rapid reappearance of the aqueous humour after the extraction of a cataract. retina, it probably enables-the animal to see better in the dusk. It is tbe cause of the well-known glare of the eyes of cats and other animals ; and the great breadth of the luminous appearance arises from the dilatation of the pupil. * The solid constituent is mainly composed of chloride of sodium. •f- Some anatomists describe the anterior chamber as lined by a serous membrane called the membrane of the aqueous humjur.