ADDUCTOR MUSCLES. 513 magnus, the profunda vessels and the obturator nerve. It is sup- plied by the anterior division of the obturator nerve. This muscle lies on the same plane, but external Pectineus. adductor longus, from which it is separated by a slight interval, in which may be seen the anterior division of the obturator nerve. It arises from the triangular sm-face of the pubes in front of the linea ilio-pectinea, and is inserted into the upper part of the ridge leading from the lesser trochanter to the linea aspera. It lies upon the adductor brevis, the obturator vessels and nerve and the obturator externus. Its nerve comes from the anterior crural, sometimes also from the obturator (p. 410). By separating the contiguous borders of the pectineus and the adductor longus, the adductor brevis is exposed with the anterior division of the obturator nerve lying upon it. To obtain a com- plete view of it, the pectineus and adductor longus must be reflected from their origins. The obturator nerve supplies all the adductors. It leaves the pelvis through the upper part of the obturator foramen, and soon divides into an anterior and posterior branch: the anterior runs in front of the adductor brevis, and supplies the hip-joint, the adductor longus, the gracilis, and some- times the adductor brevis and the pectineus; the posterior runs behind the adductor brevis, and supplies it as well as the obtm-ator externus, the adductor magnus, and the knee-joint. Adductor This muscle arises from the front surface of the Bhetis. body of the pubes near the symphysis, and from its descending ramus for about an inch ; it widens as it descends, and is inserted behind the pectineus into the whole length of the ridge leading from the lesser trochanter to the linea aspera. Behind, it rests upon the posterior division of the obturator nerve, and the adductor magnus. Its nerve is derived from, the obtu- rator. By reflecting it from its origin, the following muscle is' exposed.* * Beneath the adductor brevis, and running parallel with the upper border of tho adductor magnus, is seen the obturator externus. But the description of this nnisclo is deferred till the dissection of the external rotators of the thigh. L L