209 .LACHRYMAL GLAND. the superior oblique to the inner angle of the orbit. Here it gives off a small communication to the infra-trochlear branch of the nasal, and then divides, after passing between the bone and the orbicularis palpe- brarum, into filaments which supply the skin of the upper eyelid, forehead, and nose. One or two small filaments may be traced through the bone to the mucous membrane of the frontal sinuses.* h. The supra-orhital is the continuation of the frontal nerve, and runs forwards to the supra-orbital notch, through which it ascends to supply the skin of the upper eyelid, forehead, and scalj). Its cutaneous branches, an inner and an outer, which run upwards beneath the occipito-frontalis, have been described in the dissection of the scalp (p. 4). Lachbtsial This is the smallest of the three branches of the ^^ERVE. ophthalmic nerve. It runs along the outer side of the orbit with the lachrymal artery, through the lachrymal gland, which it supplies as well as the upper eyelid. Its branches within the orbit are : 1, a branch which passes down behind the lachry- mal gland to communicate with the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve; 2, filaments to the lachrymal gland. It then pierces the palpebral ligament to supply the skin of the upper eyelid. Fourth Cea- This nerve enters the orbit through the sphe- NiAL Nerve. noidal fissure above the other nerves. It runs along the inner side of the frontal nerve, and enters the orbital surface of the superior oblique, to which it is solely dis- tributed.f Lachrymal This gland is situated below the external Gland. angular process of the frontal bone. It is about the size and shape of an almond. Its upper surface is convex, in adaptation to the roof of the orbit; its lower is concave, in adap- tation to the eyeball. The anterior part of the gland lies some- times separated from the rest, close to the back part of the upper eyelid, and is covered by the conjunctiva. The whole * These filaments have been described by Ehimenbach—' De sinibus Frontal.' t This nerve is joined in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus by filaments from the sympathetic. Here also it sends backwards two or more filaments to supply the tentorium cerebelli. P