566 LIGAMENTS OP THE HIP-JOINT. and more marked, which pass behind the articulation. A well- marked fasciculus of fibres passes from the posterior superior spine to the third segment of the sacrum, and is called the oblique saaro- iliac ligament. The anterior part of the bones forming this articulation is crusted with articular cartilage, of which the shape is like that of the ear. Behind this is the strong interosseous ligament, which contributes powerfully to the security of the joint. Sacko-ischiatic These are two strong ligaments passing from Ligaments. the sacrum to the ischium. The great saxro- ischiatic is triangular, and extends from the posterior inferior spine of the ilium, and the side of the sacrum and coccyx, to the tuberosity of the ischium. The lesser sacro-ischiatic ligament passes from the sacrum and coccyx to the spine of the ischium, where it "narrows considerably. It lies anterior to the preceding ligament. These two ligaments not only connect the bones, but also, from their gi-eat breadth, contribute to diminish the lower aperture of the pelvis. Ligaments OF This joint is secured by the form of the bones, THE Hip-joint. and by the strength of the powerful muscles which surround it. Although a perfect ball-and-socket joint, its motion is somewhat limited : the disposition of its ligaments restricts its range of motion to those directions only which are most consistent with the maintenance of the erect attitude, and the requirements of this part of the skeleton. Capsular The capsular ligament is attached above to Ligament. the circumference of the acetabulum, a little external to the margin, and also to the transverse ligament; below, to the inter-trochanteric ridge of the femur in front, and to the middle of the neck behind. The capsule is rendered exceed- ingly thick and strong in front by a broad ligament, ilio-femoral, which extends from the anterior inferior iliac spine, and then divides like the two arms of the inverted letter ^, one, the inner, passes to the lesser trochanter, the outer, to the upper part of the anterior inter-trochanteric ridge. This ligament is very strong.