303 PALM OP THE HAND. digital artery passes and bifurcates lower down; titcrefore a vei-tical in- cision down the cleft would divide the artery before the nerve. In their course along the fingers and thumb, the nerves lie superficial to the arteries, and nearer to the flexor tendons. About the middle of the first phalanx each nerve sends a branch, which runs along the back of the finger nearly to the extremity, commu- nicating with the dorsal branches, derived from the radial and ulnar nerves.* Near the ungual phalanx another branch is dis- tributed to the skin around and beneath the matrix of the nail. Each digital nerve terminates in the cushion at the end of the finger in a brush of filaments, with their points directed into the papillae of the skin. Flbxob Ten- Immediately below the annular ligament the DONS AND THEiK teudous Separate from each other : near the meta- sHEATHs. carpal joints they pass in pairs, through strong fibrous rings (p. 298) formed by the divisions of the palmar fascia. Below the metacarpal joint the two tendons for each finger enter the sheath, theca, which confines them in their course along the phalanges. It is formed by a strong fibrous membrane, which is attached to the ridges on the phalanges, and converts the groove in front of these bones into a complete canal, exactly large enough to contain the tendons. The density of the sheath varies in par- ticular situations, otherwise there would be an obstacle to the easy flexion of the fingers. To ascertain this, cut open one of the sheaths along its entire length; you will then see that it is much * Upon the cutaneous nerves of the hand and feet are little bodies, termed, after their discoverer, corpuscles of Pacini. Some of them will be found, by carefully examining the trunk of a nerve, or one of its smaller branches, in the subcutaneous tissue at the root of a finger. Each corpuscle is about of an inch long, and is attached by a slender fibro-cellular pedicle to the nerve upon which it is situated; through the pedicle, a single primitive nerve fibril passes into the corpuscle. The corpuscle itself is composed of a series of concentric capsules, varying from twenty to fifty in number, and separated by intervals containing fluid: and the nerve fibril terminates by a dilated extremity in a central cavity, which exists in the axis of the corpuscle. Their function is unknown. These bodies are found in many other situa- tions, viz., in the solar plexus, the pudic nerves, the intercostal nerves, the cutaneous nerves of the arm and neck, the infra-orbital nerve, the sacral plexus, and in nerves supplying the periosteum. They can bo best examined.in the mesentery of the cat.