230 MEATUSES OF THE NOSE. narrowness in the transverse direction explains the rapidity with which swelling of the lining membrane from a simple cold obstructs the passage of air. Boundaries The nasal fosssB are bounded by the following OF Nasal Foss;e. bones :—superiorly, by the nasal, the nasal spine of the frontal, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and the body of the sphenoid; inferiorly, by the horizontal plates of the superior maxillary and palate bones; internally, is the smooth and flat septum formed by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, the ridge formed by the two nasal bones, the vomer, the septal car- tilage, also by the nasal spine of the frontal, the rostrum of the sphenoid, and the median ridge of the superior maxillary and palate bones ; externally, by the superior maxillary, the lachrymal, the ethmoid, the palate, the inferior turbinated bone, and the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid. Mbatttses of The outer wall of each nasal cavity is divided THE Nose. by the turbinated bones into three compartments —meatuses—of unequal size; and in these are orifices leading to air-cells—sinuses—in the sphenoid, ethmoid, frontal, and superior maxillary bones. Each of these compartments should be separately examined. a. The superior meatus is the smallest of the three, and does not extend beyond the posterior half of the wall of the nose. The posterior ethmoidal and sphenoidal cells open into it. The spbeno-palatine foramen is covered by the mucous membrane. h. The middle meatus is larger than the superior. At its an- terior part a long narrow passage {infundihulum), nearly hidden by a fold of membrane, leads upwards to the frontal and the anterior ethmoidal cells. About the middle a small opening leads into the antrum of the superior maxilla : this opening in the dry bone is large and irregular, but in the recent state it is reduced nearly to the size of a crow-quill by mucous membrane, so that a very little swelling of the membrane is sufficient to close the orifice entirely. Notice that the orifices of the frontal and ethmoid cells are so disposed that their secretion will pass away easily into the nose.