371 ANATOMY OP PARTS CONCERNED IN HERNIA. sac formed by the tunica vaginalis, which still communicates with the peritoneal cavity. Tliese hernise are always oblique, and are termed congenital.* There are four varieties, all of which are the result of, or associated with, some congenital defect. They are as follows :— 1. Hernia in the tunica vaginalis testis.—This occnrs when a protru- sion of intestine takes place through the narrow canal which persists between the general cavity of the peritoneum and the tunica vaginalis testis, in consequence of the non-obUteration of the original communica- tion between them. In this case, the intestine surrounds the testis, and the sac is formed by the tunica vaginalis testis (fig. 74. 1.). 2. Hernia in the funicular portion of the tunica vaginalis occurs when an incomplete closure of the tunica vaginalis takes place immediately above the testis; the canal above it being still unclosed and communi- cating with the peritoneal cavity. The sac is formed by the original pouch of the peritoneum in the descent of the testis, although shut off from the tunica vaginaUs testis by a thin septum (fig. 2). 3. Infantile hernia is rare, and occurs when the original peritoneal canal is occluded at the inner ring, so that the tunica vaginahs testis reaches up as high as the canal, or even as far as the internal ring. The intestine in this variety protrudes a sac through the inner ring, but behind this abnormal extension of the tunica vaginalis ; so that in front of the hernia there are three layers of peritoneum : two formed by the tunica vaginalis, the third by the sac (fig. 3). 4. Encysted hernia is still rarer than the preceding, and may occur in those cases in which the closing septum at the internal ring is so thin that an advancing hernia pushes before it this thin stratum (which forms its sac) as a diverticulum into an unclosed tunica vaginahs (fig. 4). Position of The spermatic cord is generally situated behind Spebmatic Cobd. and to the outer side of a hernial sac. In some cases, however, the hernia separates the constituents of the cord, so that one or other of these comes to lie in front of the protrusion. Seat of The stricture may be seated either at the ex- Steictuee. ternal ring, the internal ring, at any intermediate * The term congenital applied to this form of hernia is apt to suggest the idea that it occurs at birth. But this is not of necessity so. Although the state of parts favourable to its occurrence exists at birth, the hernia itself may not take place till many years afterwards—in fact, at any period of life. B B 2