GLOSSO-PHAKTNGEAL NERVE. 108 Stylo- This arises from the inner side of the styloid PHABYNGEus. process near the base, and is inserted into the upper and posterior edges of the thyroid cartilage. It descends along the side of the pharynx between the superior and the middle constrictors. Curving round its lower border is seen the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Its nerve comes from the pharyngeal plexus. Its action is to raise the larynx with the pharynx in deglutition. Between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus, and nearly parallel with both, is the stylo-hyoid ligament. It extends from the apex of the styloid process to the lesser cornu of the os hyoides. It is often more or less ossified. The ascending palatine artery, a branch of the facial (p. 45), runs up between the stylo-glossus and the stylo-pharyngeus, and divides into branches which supply these muscles, the palate, the side of the pharynx, and the tonsils. It inosculates with the descending palatine, a branch of the internal maxillary. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve is observed curving Glosso-pha- forwards under the lower border of the stylo- pharyngeus (p. 48). It is one of the divisions of the eighth pair, arises by five or six filaments from the resti- form tract of the medulla oblongata, leaves the skull through the anterior part of the foramen jugulare in a separate sheath of dura mater, in front of the remaining divisions of the eighth pair, and descends between the internal jugular vein and the internal carotid artery. It then crosses in front of the artery and proceeds along the lower border of the stylo-pharyngeus. At this point, it curves forwards over that muscle and the middle con- strictor of the pharynx, and disappears beneath the hyo-glossus, where it divides into its terminal branches, which supply the mucous membrane of the pharynx, the back of the tongue, and the tonsils. The glosso-pharyngeal is regarded, at its origin, as purely a sensory nerve. But soon after its exit from the skull it receives communications from the facial, the pneumogastric, and the sympathetic, so that it soon becomes a compound nerve—i.e.