264 BRANCHES OF AXILLARY ARTFRT. wards, through the upper part of the axilla, beneath the two pec- toral muscles, and along the inner border of the coraco-brachialis, as far as the lower border of the tendon of the teres major, beyond which it is continued under the name of the brachial. Its course is divided for convenience of description into three parts : the first lies above the pectoralis minor ; the second behind that muscle; and the third below it. In the first part of its course, the artery is covered by the pectoralis major and the costo-coracoid membrane, and is crossed by the cephalic and acromio-thoracic veins. On its inner side, and slightly in front, is the axillary vein ; on its outer side is the brachial plexus of nerves; behind it are the first intercostal space, the second digitation of the serratus magnus, and the posterior thoracic nerve (external respiratory of Bell). In the second part of its course, it lies behind the pectoralis major and minor; on' its inner side is the axillary vein, still slightly anterior, but separated from >the artery by the inner cord of the brachial plexus; on its outer side is the outer cord of the brachial plexus; and behind it is a quantity of loose connective tissue which separates it from the subscapularis muscle. The inner head of the median nerve is often in front of the artery in this part of its course. In the third part, in front of the artery, are the pectoralis major, the two roots of the median nerv«, converging like the letter V, and lower down is the fascia of the arm; on the outer side are the coraco-brachialis, the musculo-cutaneous and median nerves ;■ on the inner side are the axillary vein, the ulnar, and the two internal cutaneous nerves; behind it are in succession the subscapularis, the latissimus dorsi, the teres major, and the mus- culo-spiral and circumflex nerves. Beanches of - The number and origin of these branches often THE Axillary ,• vary, but their general course is • in most cases Artery. similar, and they usually arise in the following order:— a. The «/iomcic accis arises above the pectoralis minor, and divides into branches, which have been already described (p. 259)