72 BRANCHES OP THE BRACHIAL PLEXUS. seventh cervical runs for some distance alone, and forms a middle trunk. Now each of these five primary nerves divides into an anterior and a posterior branch: the anterior branches given off from the fifth, sixth, and seventh form the outer cord of the plexus; the anterior branches given off from the eighth cervical and first dorsal form the inner cord: while the posterior branches of all the nerves (namely, the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth cervical and first dorsal) unite to form the posterior cord* The branches arising from the plexus are best arranged into those given off above the clavicle, and those given off below it. The following are those given off above the clavicle. a. The branch forming one of the roots of the phrenic arises from the fifth cervical. (Not in the diagram.) b. Nerve to the suhclavius m.—This proceeds from the fifth and sixth cervical, and crosses the subclavian artery in the third part of its course. It frequently sends a filament, which passes in front of the subclavian vein to join the phrenic nerve. c. Nerves to the scaleni and the longus colli muscles are given off from the lower cervical nerves as they leave the intervertebral foramina. d. Nerve to the rhomboid muscles.—This arises from the fifth cervical nerve, passes through the scalenus medius, and accom- panies the posterior scapular artery, beneath the levator anguli scapulae, which, as well as the rhomboid muscles, it supplies. e. The suprascapular nerve arises from the cord formed by the fifth and sixth cervical n., runs to the upper border of the scapula, where it meets with the corresponding artery, and then passing through the notch in the scapula, terminates in the supra- spinatus and infra-spinatus m. /. The posterior thoracic nerve (called external respiratory by Sir C. Bell) to the serratus magnus arises from the fifth and sixth cervical, in the substance of the scalenus medius. It passes through this muscle and subsequently emerges below the rhomboid * For a description of the arrangement of the nerres constituting the plexus, see a paper by Lxicas, 'Guy's Hospital Eeports,' 1875; also Turner in the 'Journal of Anatomy,' 1872.