PALM OF THE HAND. 809 distribution and mode of termination are like those of the other digital arteries. The arteria radialis indicis runs between the abductor indicis and adductor pollicis, along the radial side of the index finger to the end, where it forms an arch with the other digital artery, a branch of the ulnar. Near the lower margin of the adductor pollicis, the radialis indicis generally receives a branch from the superficial palmar arCh. The palmaris profunda maybe considered as the continuation of the radial artery. It enters the palm between the inner head of the flexor brevis and the adductor pollicis, and, running upon the bases of the metacarpal bones, inosculates with the deep branch of the ulnar artery, thus completing the deep palmar arch. From the curve of the arch small recurrent branches ascend to supply the bones and joints of the carpus, inosculating with the other carpal arteries. From the convexity of the arch three or four small branches, called palmar interosseous (fig. 58. p. 299), descend to supply the interosseous muscles, and near the clefts of the fingers communicate with the digital arteries. These palmar interosseous branches are sometimes of consider- able size, and take the place of one or more of the digital arteries, ordi- narily derived from the superficial palmar arch. Three branches, called perforating, pass between the upper ends of the metacarpal bones to the back of the hand, and communicate with the carpal branches of the radial and ulnar. Deep Branch This nerve sinks into the palm with the ulnaris OF THE Ulnar profunda artery, between the abductor and flexor Neeve. brevis minimi digiti. It then runs with the deep palmar arch towards the radial side of the palm, and terminates in the adductor pollicis, and the inner or deep head of the flexor brevis pollicis. Between the pisiform and unciform bones, the nerve gives a branch to each of the muscles of the little finger. Subsequently it sends branches to each interosseous muscle and to the two inner lumbricales. The tendon of the flexor carpi radialis in the palm must now be followed to its insertion into the base of the second metacarpal bone.