STRUCTUEE OF THE LARGE INTESTINE. 495 ventes nor villi; bat the glands of Lieberkiihn and the lymphoid ft)llicles may be seen studding the mucous membrane. The follicles are more abundant in the csecum and in the appendix vermiformis than in any other part of the alimentary canal. The blood-vessels present the same hexagonal arrangement on the sur- face as that of the stomach. That the mucous membrane of the large intestine may be temporarily used as a substitute for the stomach is proved by the fact of persons having been nourished for many weeks solely by injections. The mucous membrane is lined throughout with columnar epithelium. luo-ciECAi, At the junction of the small with the large Valte. intestine the mucous membrane is folded so as to form a valve: but it is not a perfect one, as is proved by poming water into the large intestine, or by the occasional vomiting of injections. The arrangement of the valve is best examined in a dried preparation. The opening is a transverse fissure like a button-hole; and the two flaps are arranged like an upper and a lower eyelid. The upper lid of the valve projects more than the lower, so that the contents of the ileum drop naturally down into the caput coli, where they are apt to collect and form hard lumps. The flaps of the valve consist of mucous membrane and the cir- cular fibres of the ileum. The longitudinal fibres of the ileum are continued directly on to the csecum: if these be divided, the ileum can be drawn out, and the valve disappears.* Folds in the In many subjects we observe that transverse or Rectum. oblique folds of the mucous membrane project into the rectum. These cannot be seen to advantage unless the bowel be hardened by alcohol in its natural position. Three, more prominent than the rest, and half an inch, or thereabouts, in width, were first pointed out by Mr. Houston.-|- One projects from tlie upper part of the rectum, opposite the prostate gland ; another is situated higher iip, on the side of the bowel; while the third is still higher. "When thickened or ulcerated, these folds are apt to frccasion great pain and obstruction in defecation. * It is interesting to note that the surface of the valve, towards the ileum, covered -with villi; not so the surface towards the large intestine, t 'Dublin Hospital Reports,' vol. v.