STRUCTURE OP THE SMALL INTESTINE. 490 simple tubes, but, at the pyloric, they are frequently branched. Their upper fourth is lined with columnar epithelium ; their lower three-fourths, with spheroidal or glandular. It is presumed that these glandular cells contain the gastric juice. As fast as formed, during digestion, they pass into the stomach, discharge their con- tents, and disappear. Other glands—pyloric—are foimd near the pyloric end of the stomach, and are probably mucous glands. There are also glands more numerous than these, called peptic glands. They are lined for a short distance with columnar epithelial cells, which at the neck become spheroidal and granular, and are called peptic cells ; towards the lower part or fundus of the gland the cells are only found here and there, and cause a more or less bulging of the basement membrane. The mucous membrane of the stomach is lined by columnar epithelium. It is exceedingly thin and delicate, and can only be seen in the stomach of an animal recently killed. The tubes of the stomach are richly supplied with blood. The arteries form a stratum of minute inosculations in the submucous tissue, in which the closed ends of the tubes are set; from this stratum the vessels run up between the tubes to the surface of the stomach, where they again inosculate, and form the hexagonal spaces before alluded to. The stomach is supplied with nerves from the pneumogastric and from the solar plexus. Small The small intestine, consisting of the duodenum, Intestine. jejunum, and ileum, forms a tube from sixteen to twenty-six feet in length, according to the height of the individual. The duodenum is about twelve fingers' breadth in length ; the jejunum comprises two-fifths, the ileum three-fifths, of the remain- ing part of the small intestine. As regards their external cha- racter, the duodenum and jejunum are more vascular than the ileum, and feel thicker in consequence of the peculiar arrangement of their mucous membrane ; but there are no defined limits between the different portions of the intestinal canal. Its peritoneal and muscular coats are the same throughout. The muscular coat consists of an outer longitudinal layer and an inner circular thicker