518 COURSE AND RELATIONS OP FEMORAL ARTERY. Below the bursa is a layer of fascia lata, and under this is a network of arteries. The immediate covering of the bone, or what may be called its periosteum, is a strong expansion derived from the extensor tendon. This is interesting for the following reason : in ordinary fractures of the patella from muscular action the tendinous expansion over it is torn also ; the ends of the bone gape widely, and never unite except by ligament. But in fractures from direct mechanical violence, the tendinous expansion, being entire, maintains the fragments in apposition, so that there is commonly a bony union. Course and '^^^ femoral artery is a continuation of the Eejlations of external iliac. Passing beneath the crural arch THE Femoeai at a point midway between the spine of the ilium Aktery. symphysis pubis, it descends aloug the front and inner side of the thigh. At the junction of the upper two-thirds with the lower third of the thigh, it passes through an opening in the tendon of the adductor magnus, and entering the ham, takes the name of popliteal. A line drawn from the point indicated of the crural arch to the adductor tubercle on the internal condyle corresponds with the course of the artery. Its distance from the surface increases as it descends. Immediately under, and for a short distance below the crural arch, it is supported by the inner border of the psoas; lower down it runs in front of the pectineus, but separated from it by the profunda vessels; still lower down it lies upon the adductor longus, and then upon the adductor magnus. That part of the artery which extends from the crural arch to the giving off of the profunda, is called the common femoral artery; its continuation beyond the profunda is termed the super- ficial femoral; and it is the latter vessel which is ligatured for aneurysm of the popliteal artery. In the upper third of the thigh, the artery is situated in Scarpa's triangle, and is comparatively superficial, being covered only by the muscular fascia, and the sheath of the femoral vessels. About the middle third it is more deeply seated, and is covered by the sartorius; and lower down by a tendinous aponeurosis,