ELBOW JOINT. 343 of the bone to be attached to the upper border of the glenoid cavity. It is loose and movable within the joint. It acts like a strap, keeping down the head of the bone when the arm is raised by the deltoid. The tendon of the biceps, strictly speaking, does not perforate the synovial membrane of the joint. It is inclosed in a tubular sheath, wliich is reflected over it at its attachment to the glenoid cavity, and accompanies it for two inches down the groove of the liumerus. During the earlier part of foetal life, it is connected to the capsule by a fold of synovial membrane, which subsequently disappears. The margin of the glenoid cavity of the scapula is surrounded by a fibrous band of considerable thickness, called the glenoid ligament. This not only enlarges, but deepens the cavity. Superiorly, it is continuous on either side with the tendon of the biceps ; inferiorly, with the tendon of the triceps : in the rest of its circumference it is attached to the edge of the cavity. The cartilage covering the head of the humerus is thicker at the centre than at the circumference. The reverse is the case in the glenoid cavity. The synovial membrane lining the under surface of the capsule is reflected around the tendon of the biceps, and passes with it in the form of a cul-de-sac down the bicipital groove. On the inner side of the joint it always communicates with the bursa beneath the tendon of the subscapularis. The shoulder-joint has a more extensive range of motion than any other joint in the body; it is what mechanics call a universal joint. It is capable of motion forwards and backwards, of adduc- tion, abduction, circumduction, and rotation. ^ The elbow-joint is a perfect hinge. The larger Elbow-joint, . . , ° Sigmoid cavity of the ulna is adapted to the trochlea upon the lower end of the humerus, admitting only of flexion and extension; while the shallow excavation upon the head of the radius admits not only of flexion and extension, but of rota- tion, upon the rounded articular eminence (capitellum) of the