45 SUBMAXILLAET REGION. The facial artery is the third branch of the Facial Ahteet. g^^g^.^^^] carotid. It runs tortuously under the hypoglossal nerve, the posterior belly of the digastricus and stylo- hyoideus, and beneath or through the substance of the submaxillary gland to the face, where it appears at the anterior border of the masseter. Below the jaw the facial gives off the four following branches: 1. The ascending or inferior palatine artery runs np between the stylo-glossus and the stylo-phaiyngeus m. to the pharynx, to which and the neighbouring parts it gives branches. Ascending as far as the levator palati, it divides into two branches; one courses along the tensor palati to supply the soft palate, the other enters the tonsil, and anastomoses with the descending palatine and the tonsillar branches of the ascending pharyngeal. 2. Tlie tonsillar runs up between the internal pterygoid and the stylo-glossus m., then, perforating the superior constrictor, it supplies the tonsil and root of the tongue. 3. Glandular branches to the submaxillary gland and side of tongue. 4. The submental arises from the facial behind the submaxillary gland, and runs forwards upon the mylo-hyoideus, beneath the inferior maxilla, distributing branches in its course to the gland and the adjacent muscles. It then curves over the bone and divides into two branches : a superficial one, which supplies the skin and lip; and a deep one, which rrms between the muscles and the bone, and inosculates with the mental and inferior labial arteries. Beneath the inferior maxilla it usually inosculates with the sublingual artery. Mtlo-htoidean Look for the mylo-hyoidean nerve near the '^^R^- submental artery. The nerve comes from the inferior dental (before its entrance into the dental foramen), and running along a groove on the inner side of the inferior maxilla, advances between the bone and the internal pterygoid m., to supply the mylo-hyoideus and the anterior belly of the digastricus. Submaxillary ^he Submaxillary lymphatic glands receive the Lymphatic lymphatics of the face and the tongue. They are Glands. ^f^gj^ enlarged in cancerous diseases of the tongue