323 TRICEPS EXTENSOR CUBITI. One, of considerable size, on the upper surface of the tendon, facili- tates its motion beneath the coracoid process and the coraco- brachialis: this sometimes communicates with the large bursa under the deltoid. Another is situated between the tendon and the capsule of the joint, and almost invariably communicates with it. Now reflect the muscles from the surfaces Of the Dissection. gcapula, to trace the arteries which ramify upon it. Continuation ^^^^ artery, a branch of the thyroid axis, runs OF SupRA-scAPu- under and parallel with the clavicle, and passes LAH Aktebt and above the notch of the scapula, into the supra- Nebte. spinous fossa : it sends a branch to the supra- spinatus, another to the shoulder-joint, and then descends behind the neck of the scapula into the fossa below the spine, where it inosculates directly with the dorsalis scapulae. Its branches ramify upon the bone, and supply the infra-spinatus and teres minor. The supra-scapular nerve passes most frequently through the notch of the scapula, accompanies the corresponding artery, sup- plies the supra-spinatus with two branches, and then enters the infra-spinous fossa, to terminate in the infra-spinatus. » DoHSALis This artery, after passing through the triangular ScAPULiE Aetbbt. space (p. 266), curves round the inferior border of the scapula, which it grooves, to the infra-spinous fossa, where it ascends close to the bone, and anastomoses with the supra and posterior scapular arteries. The several communications about the scapula between the branches of the subclavian and axillary arteries, would furnish a large collateral supply of blood to the arm, if the subclavian were tied above the clavicle (p. 69). ThicepsExten- This muscle, which arises by three heads, and soR Cubiti. was only partially seen in the dissection of the upper arm (p. 284), should now be thoroughly examined. The long head arises immediately below the glenoid cavity of the scapula, by a strong tendon, which is connected with the capsule of the shoulder-joint. The external head arises from the posterior part of the humerus, below the insertion of the teres