359 ABDOMmAL MUSCLES. which are termed its columns or pillars. The inner 'pillar (No. 4 in the diagram) is thin, and is attached to the front of the pubes, decussating with its fellow of the opposite side in front of the symphysis. The outer pillar is thicker and stronger, and has three attachments; one, into the spine of the pubes—Pouparfs ligament (No. 3)5 another, for nearly an inch along the linea ilio-pectinea— Gimhernafs ligament (J^o. 2); the third—or triangular ligament —consists of a few fibres which pass- obliquely upwards and inwards beneath the inner pillar- as far as the-linea alba, where they are continuous with the aponeurosis of the opposite side. At the lower part of the aponeurosis of the external oblique, there are some arched fibres called intercolumnar bands, which are strongest above the external ring. Their use is to strengthen the opening and prevent the ring from enlarging. Attached to the pillars of the external ring is a thin fascia, the intercolumnar or spermatic, fascia, which is prolonged over the spermatic cord and testis, and thus forms one of the coverings of that organ. The spermatic cord in its passage through the ring rests upon the external pillar. ^ The external oblique should now be detached from the ribs and the crest of the ilium, and turned forwards as far as this can be done without injuring its aponeurosis or the crural arch. The second muscular stratum will thus be exposed and recognised by the difference in the direc- tion of its fibres, which run upwards and inwards. Intebnal This muscle arises by fleshy fibres from the Oblique. outer half of Poupart's ligament, from the anterior two-thirds of the middle lip of the crest of the ilium, and from the fascia lumborum.* The fibres ascend obliquely and are inserted as follows:—the posterior, into the cartilages of the three or four lower ribs ; the middle, into the abdominal aponeurosis; and the anterior (which arise from Poupart's ligament) arch in- wards over the spermatic cord, and descend somewhat to be in- * The internal oblique represents, in the abdomen, the internal intercostal muscles of the thorax.