432 SIDE VIEW OP THE PELVIO VISCEEA. their definite boundaries. The rectum runs at the back 'of the pelvis, and follows the anterior curve of the sacrum and coccyx. The bladder lies in front of the rectum, immediately behind the symphysis pubis. At the neck of the bladder is the prostate gland through which the urethra passes. In the cellular tissue, between the bladder and the rectum, there is, on each side, a convoluted tube, called the vesicula seminalis, and on the inner side of each vesicula is the seminal duct or vas deferens. Before describing these parts in detail, it is necessary to say a few words about the large tortuous veins which surround them. ^ Beneath the pelvic fascia surrounding the pros- PlEXUS of '■ or Veins about neck of the bladder are large and Pbostatk and tortuous veins, which form the prostatic and the Neck op vesical plexuses. They empty themselves into the Bladdbb. internal iliac. In early life they are not much developed, but as puberty approaches they gradually increase in size, and one not familiar with the anatomy of these parts would hardly credit the size which they sometimes attain in old persons. They communicate freely with the inferior hsemorrhoidal plexus, or veins about the anus, and they receive the blood returning from the penis through the large veins which pass under the pubic arch. If, in lithotomy, the incision be carried beyond the limits of the prostate, the great veins around it must necessarily be divided; these, independently of any artery, are quite sufficient to occasion serious haemorrhage. Ebctum and The intestinum rectum is about eight inches ITS Eelations. long. It is a continuation of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, enters the pelvis at the left sacro-iliac articulation, describes a curve corresponding to the sacrum, and terminates at the anus. Before its termination, the bowel turns downwards so that the anal aperture is dependent. The rectum also inclines from the left side to the middle line, and, although it loses the sacculated appearance, is not throughout of equal calibre. Its capacity becomes greater as it descends into the pelvis; and, immediately above the sphincter, it presents a considerable dila-