534 GLUTEAL EEGION. The fascia covering the gluteus maximus is comparatively thin, posteriorly, where it is attached to the sacrum, coccyx, and ilium ; hut anteriorly it is very dense and glistening, and gives origin to the fibres of the gluteus medius, and lower down becomes con- tinuous with the fascia lata. Gluteus This is the largest muscle of the body, and is Maximus. covered by a fascia, which sends prolongations inwards between the muscular bundles. Its great size is cha- racteristic of man, in reference to his erect position. Its texture is thick and coarse. It arises from the posterior fifth of the crest of the ilium, and from the rough surface below it, from the lower part of the sacrum, the coccyx, and the great sacro-ischiatic ligament. The fibres descend obliquely forwards, and are inserted thus:—the anterior two-thirds terminate on a strong broad aponeurosis which plays over the great trochanter, and joins the fascia lata on the outside of the thigh (p. 500); the remaining third is inserted into the femur, along the ridge (gluteal) leading from the linea aspera to the base of the great trochanter. This muscle extends the thigh bone upon the pelvis, and is therefore one of those most con-cerned in raising the body from the sitting to the erect position, and in maintaining it erect. It propels the body—in walking, running or leaping, and rotates the thigh outwards. It is supplied with blood by the gluteal and ischiatic arteries ; with nerves from the lesser ischiatic, and the sacral plexus, . The gluteus maximus should be reflected from What is^een & BENEAm THE its origlu. The best way is to begin at the front Gluteus Maxi- border, which overlaps the gluteus medius. The dissection is difficult, and he who undertakes it for the first time, is almost sure to injure the subjacent parts. The numerous vessels which enter its under surface must be divided before the muscle can be reflected. This having been accom- / plished, the following objects will be exposed :— The muscle covering the ilium is the gluteus medius. At the posterior border of this are the several objects which emerge from the pelvis through the great ischiatic notch—namely, the pyri-