385 BRANCHES OP THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. a little to the left side of the spine, divides on the fourth lumbar vertebra into the two common iliac arteries. In this course it gives off its branches in the following order (fig. 80) :— 1. The phrenic, for the supply of the diaphragm. 2. The cceliac axis, a short thick trunk which immediately subdivides into three branches for the supply of the stomach, the liver, and the spleen. 3. The superior mesenteric, for the supply of all the small in- testine and the upper half of the large. 4. 5. The supra-renal and the renal arteries. 6. The spermatic, for the testicles ; the ovarian, for the ovaries. 7. The inferior mesenteHc, for the supply of the lower half of the large intestine. 8. The lumbar, four branches analogous to the intercostals, for the supply of the back part of the abdomen. 9. The arteria sacra media, which is given off at the bifurca- tion of the aorta, supplies the fifth lumbar artery and, running down in front of the sacrum, the lateral sacral arteries. _ These branches are to be traced throughout in Dissection the order most convenient. Take the cceliac axis first. To dissect this artery and its branches, the liver must be well raised, as in fig. 81, and the anterior layer of peritoneum removed from the gastro-hepatic omentum. A close network of very tough tissue surrounds the visceral branches of the aorta. This tissue consists almost entirely of plexuses of nerves, derived from the sympathetic system, each plexus taking the name of the artery which it surrounds. Of these plexuses, the largest surrounds the cceliac axis like a ring. This is the solar plexus, and is formed by the junction of the two semi-lunar ganglia (see dissection of thorax, p. 147). From this, as from a root, other secondary plexuses branch off, and surround the following arteries —the phrenic, coronary, hepatic, splenic, superior mesenteric, inferior mesenteric, and renal; the plexuses receiving the names of the arteries around which they twine. It requires a lean subject and much patience to trace them. c c