DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE LEG. 525 with the internal circumflex artery (p. 522). The latter branch sometimes gives off the small artery to the ligamentum teres of the hip-joint.. DISSECTION OF' THE FRONT OF THE LEG. The foot should be turned inwards, and fixed in this position. An incision must be made from the knee, down the front of the leg, over the ankle, along the top of the foot to the great toe ; a second, at right angles to the firsts on either side of the ankle ; a third, across the bases of the toes. Eeflect the skin from the front and sides of the leg and foot.. Cutaneous Having traced the internal saphena vein Veins and' (p. 49'9) to the inner side of the knee, follow Neetes. it down the inner side of the leg, in front of the inner ankle* to the dorsum of the foot. On the dorsum of the foot notice that the principal veins form an arch, with the con- vexity forwards, as on the back of the hand. This arch receives the veins from the toes. From the inner side of the arch the internal saphena originates : from the outer side, the external saphena. The latter vein runs behind the external ankle, up the back of the calf of the-leg to join the popliteal vein. Long Saphe- The skin on the inner side of the leg is supplied NODS Nebte. by the long or internal saphenous nerve (p. 523). It becomes subcutaneous on the inner side of the knee, between the gracilis and sartorius. Here it meets the saphena vein, and accompanies it down the leg, distributing its branches on either side, till it is finally lost on the inner side of the foot and the great toe. The largest branch curves round the inner side of the knee, just below the patella, to supply the skin in this situation. It pierces the sartorius close to the knee, and forms with branches from the internal, middle, and external cutaneous nerves, the 'plexus patellce. * The French commonly bleed from the internal saphena vein as it crosses over the inner ankle, this being a convenient and safe place for veneeection.