313 SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OF THE BACK. muscle : this displacement is readily recognised by the unnatural projection of the lower angle of the bone, and the impaired move- ments of the arm.* The muscles lying beneath the latissimus dorsi are—a small part of the rhomboideus major, of the infra-spinatus, and of the teres major, the serratus posticus inferior, the spinalis dorsi, the longissimus dorsi, the sacro-lumbalis, and the external intercostals. Between the base of the scapula, the trapezius, and the upper border of the latissimus dorsi, a triangular space is observed when the arm is raised, in which the lower fibres of the rhomboideus major and part of the sixth intercostal space, are exposed. Im- mediately above the crest of the ilium, between the free margins of the latissimus dorsi and external oblique, there is, also, an interval in which a little of the internal oblique can be seen. LuMBAE This dense shining aponeurosis of the back Aponeoeosis. (sometimes termed the aponeurosis of the latissi- mus dorsi) forms the posterior part of the sheath of the erector spinse. It is pointed above, where it is continuous with the deep cervical fascia, broader and stronger below. It consists of ten- dinous fibres, which are attached internally to the spines of the six or seven low-er dorsal, all the lumbar and sacral vertebrae ; exter- nally, to the angles of the ribs; and inferiorly it is blended with the tendons of the serratus posticus inferior and latissimus dorsi. When suppmation takes place in the loins, constituting a lumbar abscess in connection with spinal disease, the pus is seated beneath this aponeurosis, and is therefore tardy in coming to the surface. _ Eeflect the trapezius from its insertion. On its Dissection. ^ under surface see the ramifications of its nutrient artery, the superjicialis colli, a branch of the posterior scapular. A large nerve, the spinal accessory, enters its under surface near * Wc have seen several instances of tliis displacement. There is great projection of the inferior angle of the scapula, especiallywhou the patient attempts to raise the arm. He caunot raise the arm beyond a right angle, unless firm pressure is made on the lower angle of the scapula, so as to supply the place of the muscular strap. Whether the scapula can be replaced or not, a firm bandage should be applied round the chest.