480 STRUCTUBE OF THE LIVER. accumulate in large quantities, they constitute what is called a fatty liver. The office of these cells is to separate the bile from the blood, and, when filled with bile, to discharge their contents into the hepatic ducts.* The lymphatics of the liver, superficial and deep, commence in the spaces in the interior of the lobule, accompany the inter- lobular vessels, and pass out at the transverse fissure. The superficial lymphatics are in connection with the areolar sheath and the upper surface of the liver. The nerves of the liver are derived from the pneumogastric, chiefly the left; and from the hepatic plexus which comes from the coeliac plexus. These plexuses enter the liver at the trans- verse fissure, surround the hepatic artery and the portal vein, and accompany these vessels in their ramifications through it. The ultimate termination of these nerves is not known. The functions of the liver may be thus briefly expressed:— 1. It renders the albuminous matter (albuminose) brought to it by the portal vein capable of being assimilated. 2. It forms a sub- stance, glycogen, easily converted into sugar, which passes into the hepatic veins, and being consumed, helps to maintain animal heat. 3. It secretes the bile, which assists in converting the chyme into chyle, and reducing it into a state fit to be absorbed by the lac- teals. 4. The bile acts as a natural aperient. 5. The bile is an antiseptic, and probably prevents the decomposition of the food during its passage through the intestine. The gall-bladder, or reservoir for the bile, is confined by the peritoneum m a slight depression on the under surface of the right lobe of the liver (p. 477). It is pyriform in shape, is about four inches long, and capable of hold- ing about 1 ^ oz. of fluid. Its narrow end, or neck, makes a bend downwards, and terminates in a duct, called the cystic, which, after a course of about an inch and a half, joins the hepatic duct at an acute angle (fig. 81, p. 387). The common duct, ductus communis choledochus, formed by their union, is about three or * For further information on this Bubject see the original observations of Kiernan in the 'Philosoph. Trans.' for 1833.