193 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. a valve. It is like a leaf with its stalk directed downwards. Its ordinary position is perpendicular, leaving the upper opening of the larynx free for respiration; but during the elevation of the larynx in deglutition it becomes horizontal, falls downwards and backwards over the larynx, and prevents the entrance of food into it. This descent of the epiglottis is accomplished, not by special muscular agency, but by the simultaneous elevation of the larynx and the retraction of the tongue. Its apex or lower part is at- tached by the thyro-epiglottic ligament to the angle of the thyroid cartilage; it is also connected by an elastic ligament, hyo-epi- glottic, to the os hyoides. Laterally its borders are rather turned backwards, and to them are attached two folds of mucous mem- brane which pass to the arytenoid cartilages, called the a')^teno- epiglottic folds. Its anterior surface is only free at its base, where it is connected with the base of the tongue by the three glosso- epiglottic folds. Its posterior or laryngeal surface is concavo- convex and free, and looks towards the larynx. The surface of the epiglottis is closely invested by mucous membrane; this being re- moved, the yellow cartilage of the epiglottis is seen pitted and often perforated by the small muciparous glands. The cartilages of the larynx resemble those of the ribs in struc- ture. In the young they are dense and elastic, but some have a tendency to ossify with age. In very old subjects, the thyroid and cricoid cartilages are often completely ossified, and their interior presents an areolar tissue, containing oily matter, analogous to the spongy texture of the bones. The epiglottis, cornicula laryngis and cuneiform cartilages are rarely ossified, on account of their composition, which resembles that of the ear and the nose. The larynx must now be examined in its perfect condition. Mucous Mem- Except on the true vocal cords and the epiglottis, BRANB OF THE thc mucous mcmbranc of the larynx presents a Lartnx. wrinkled appearance, and is loosely connected to the subjacent structures by an abundance of fibro-cellular tissue, which admits of its being elevated into large folds. This tissue deserves notice from the rapidity with which it becomes the seat of serous effusion in acute inflammation of the larynx, and thus produces