DISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. 599 the floor of the fourth ventricle, close to the nucleus for the vagus. The pneumogastric nerve arises by numerous filaments which pass to a grey nucleus in the floor of the fourth ventricle, close to the middle line. The nervus accessorius is composed of two parts—an upper or accessory portion, which arises from the medulla ; and a lower or spinal portion, which arises from the spinal cord. The accessory fibres may be traced to the nucleus at the apex of the calamus scriptorius. The spinal portion arises by a series of slender filaments from the lateral tract of the spinal cord as low down as the fifth or sixth cervical vertebra. The spinal portion ascends behind the ligamentum denticulatum, through the foramen magnum, into the skull, and joins the accessory part. The nervus accessorius then passes through the foramen j ugulare with the pneumogastric and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. The glosso-pharyugeal is distri- buted to the mucous membrane of the pharynx, and back of the tongue (p. 224). The pneumogastric is distributed to the pharynx, the larynx, the heart and lungs, the oesophagus, and stomach. The nervus accessorius supplies the sterno-mastoid, and the trapezius. For the further description of these nerves, see pp. 225, 226. Ninth Pair or This nerve arises by several filaments from the HipoGLossAL. medulla, along the groove between the anterior pyramid and the olive. Its fibres may be traced to a long grey nucleus, which forms an eminence in the floor of the fourth ven- tricle in front and to the inner side of the vagal nucleus. It leaves the skull through the anterior condyloid foramen, and is distributed to the muscles of the tongue and depressors of the os hyoides and larynx. Dissection of The brain should now be laid on its base. By THE RAIN. gently separating the hemispheres, we expose at the bottom of the longitudinal fissure a white band of nerve-sub- stance, which is the great transverse commissure of the cerebrum, and termed the corpus callosum.