5 NERVES OP THE SCALP. supply the structures as high as the parietal bone; and an outer and larger, which may be traced over the vertex as far as the occipital bone. The temporal branch of the superior maxillary nerve pierces the temporal aponeurosis about an inch above the zygoma, and is distributed to the skin of the temple, communicating with the facial nerve 'and occa- sionally with the following. The auriculo-temporal nerve, a branch of the inferior maxillary nerve, after sending a small filament to the upper part of the pinna, divides into two branches which accompany the divisions of the superficial temporal artery; of these the posterior is the smaller. The temporal branches of the facial nerve lie superficial to the tem- poral aponeurosis, and supply the attrahens aurem, the orbicularis oculi, the occpito-frontalis, and the corrugator supercilii. The posterior auricular nerve is a bi'anch of the facial, and divides like its accompanying artery behind the pinna of the ear, into a posterior or occipital branch, which supplies the posterior belly of the occipito- frontalis, and into an anterior or auricular branch, which ends in the auricle, the retrahens aui'em and the attoUens aurem. The great occipital nerve is the posterior branch of the second cervical nerve. After piercing the complexus it appears on the occiput with the occipital artery, and divides into wide-spreading branches which supply the skin. It communicates with the posterior auricular, the small occi- pital, and the third cervical nerves. The small occipital nerve, a branch of the anterior division of the second cervical (p. 21), runs along the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid and supplies the scalp. Occasionally, though rarely, a cutaneous branch of the suboccipital nerve is distributed to the back of the head. Points of Suk- Eaise the aponeurosis of the scalp, and observe GicAL Interest. the quantity of loose connective tissue which intervenes between it and the pericranium. This tissue never contains fat. There are some points of surgical interest con- cerning it:—1. Its looseness accounts for the extensive effusions of blood which one often sees after injuries of the head. 2. It admits of large flaps of the scalp being detached from the skull- cap ; but these flaps rarely slough, unless severely damaged, because they carry their blood-vessels with them. 3. In phleg- monous erysipelas of the scalp, the connective tissue becomes