SOLE OP THE FOOT. 660 Tendox of thb Tracing this tendon into the sole, you find that Flexor Loxvaus an accessory muscle is attached to it. The flexor DiGiTORUM. accessorius arises by muscular fibres from the MuscuLus Ac- .j^j^gj, g-^jg ^j^g calcis, and by tendinous fibres CESSORIUS. o 1 If from the outer side in front of the external tuber- cle. Its fibres run straight forwards, and are inserted into the fibular side of the upper surface of the tendon, so that their action is not only to assist in bending the toes, but to make the common tendon pull in a straight line towards the heel; which from its oblique direction, it could not do without the accessory muscle. The common tendon then divides into four, one for each of the four outer toes. These run in the same sheath with the short tendons, and, after passing through their divisions, are inserted into the bases of the ungual phalanges. Respecting the manner in which the ten- dons are confined by fibrous sheaths, and lubricated by a synovial lin- ing, what was said of the fingers (p. 304) applies equally to the toes. The flexor accessorius is supplied by the external plantar nerve. These four little muscles are placed between the long flexor tendons. Each, excepting the most internal, arises from the adjacent sides of two tendons, proceeds forwards, and then, sinking between the toes, terminates in an aponeurosis which passes round the inner side of the four outer toes, and joins the extensor tendon on the dorsum of the first phalanges of the toes. Concerning their use, refer to p. 306. The two outer lumbricales are supplied by the external plantar nerve, the two inner by the internal. Now trace the long flexor tendon of the great toe. From the groove in the astragalus it runs along the groove in tlie lesser tuberosity of the os calcis, above, that is nearer to the bones than the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, and then straight to the base of the last phalanx. It crosses the long flexor tendon of the toes, and the two tendons are connected by an oblique slip ; so that we cannot bend the other toes without the great toe. Plantar The posterior tibial artery, having entered the Arteries. sole between the origins of the abductor pollicis, divides into the external and internal plantar arteries.