107 INTEENAL LATERAL LIGAMENT. The nerve at first lies in front of tbe inferior dental nerve (with which it is frequently connected), and beneath the internal maxillary a. Beneath the external pterygoid the gustatory n. is joined at an acute angle by the chorda tympani (a branch of the facial). This branch emerges through the Glaserian fissure, or through a small canal by the side of it, and passing behind the dental n., meets the gustatory, and runs along the lower border of this nerve to join the submaxillary ganglion. It is eventually distributed to the lingualis muscle. The gustatory in its course gives ofi": a. ComrauTUcating branches to the hypoglossal n., formiiag two or more loops at the anterior border of the hyo-glossus. b. Branches to the submaxillary ganglion. c. Branches to the mucous membrane of the mouth, gums, and sub- lingual gland. d. Branches which pass to the papillae of the sides and tip of the tongue: here also we find communications between this nerve and the hypoglossal. Ikternai, -^^^^ so-called ligament (which is more like a LATERAL LiGA- laycr of fascia) passes from the spinous process MKNT OF THE of tho sphcuoid bone to the inner side of the Lower Jaw. foramen dentale. Between this ligament and the neck of the jaw, we find the internal maxillary artery and vein, the auriculo-temporal nerve, the middle meningeal artery, the dental nerve and artery, and a portion of the parotid gland. At this stage of the dissection you will be able to trace the course and relations of the internal carotid artery. But before doing this, examine the several objects which intervene between the external and internal carotids. These are—1. Tlie stylo- glossus : 2. The stylo-pharyngeus : 3. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve : 4. The stylo-hyoid ligament. This arises from the styloid process near the StTLO-GLOSSUS. J J.T. J. 1 -n T , i . apex, and the stylo-maxiUary ligament, and is inserted along the side of the tongue, external to the hyo-glossus. Its action is to retract the tongue. Its nerve is a branch of the hypoglossal.