621 DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL COED. Spinal Cord. Fifi. 156, Cauda Equina. DIAGEAM OF THE LIGAMENTUM DENTICUI.ATUM. covered with nucleated cells continuous with the arachnoid mem- brane.* The spinal cord is that part of the cerebro-spinal axis contained in the vertebral canal. It is the continuation of the medulla oblongata, and extends from the fora- men magnum down to the upper border of the second lumbar vertebra, where it terminates in a conical point, conus niedullaris, after having given off the large bundle of nerves termed cauda equina, for the supply of the lower limbs. From i cura mater the conus medullaris there is continued 2; 2,2. Ligam^ntnm denti<iulatum. downwards a slender cord, the fLlumterminale, which passes within the sheath to the coccyx.f The length of the cord is from fifteen to eighteen inches, and its general form is cylindrical, slightly flattened in front and behind. It is not of uniform dimensions throughout. It presents a considerable enlargement in the lower part of the cervical region ; another in the lower part of the dorsal, from which proceed the large nerves to the upper and lower limbs, respectively. The upper or cervical enlargement, which is the larger, extends from the third cervical to the first dorsal vertebra; the lower, or lumbar, is situated opposite to the last dorsal vertebra. | The cord is divided into two symmetrical halves by a median longitudinal fissure in front and behind (fig. 157). The anterior fissure is the more distinct, and Fissures. * Firfe Axel, Key, and Retzius; Max Schultze's'Archives,'1873. t The explanation of this is, that, at an early period of foetal life, the length of the cord corresponds with that of the vertebral canal; hut after the third month, the lumbar and sacral vertebrae grow away from the cord, in accordance with the more active development of the lower limbs. See Tiedemann, ' Anatomie und Bildungs- geschichte des Gehirns im Foetus dcs Monschen,' &c.; Nuremberg, 1816. t In very early foetal life these enlargements do not exist, and only make their appearance with the development of the extremities.