MUSCLES OP THE AEil. 276 Now remove the fascia in order to see the Dissection* muscles on the front of the arm—namely, the biceps, the coraco-brachialis, and the brachialis anticus. The biceps, as its name implies, arises by two BiciiPs. heads—a long and a short. The short head arises from the point of the coracoid process of the scapula, by a thick, flat tendon in common with a slender muscle on its inner side, called the coraco-brachialis. The long head arises from the upper border of the glenoid fossa of the scapula and the glenoid ligament, by a long, rounded tendon, which, tra- versing the shoulder-joint, passes over the head of the humerus, and down the groove between the two tuberosities. The tendon is retained in the groove by a fibrous bridge derived from the capsule of the joint, and connected with the tendon of the pectoralis major. Divide this bridge, and see that the synovial membrane of the joint is reflected round the tendon, and accom- panies it for about two inches down the groove, thus forming a synovial fold. The object of this is to facilitate the play of the tendon, and to carry little arteries (from the anterior circum- flex) for its supply. The two heads unite about the middle of the arm, and form a single muscle, which terminates on a strong flat tendon of considerable length; this dips down into the triangular space at the bend of the elbow, and, after a slight twist upon itself, is inserted into the posterior part of the tubercle of the radius. The anterior part of the tubercle, over which the tendon plays, is crusted witb cartilage, and a bursa intervenes to diminish friction. The most internal fibres of the muscle are inserted into a strong broad aponeurosis, which is prolonged from the inner border of the tendon to the fascia on the inner side of the forearm. This aponeurosis, called the semi-lunar fascia of the biceps, protects the brachial vessels and the median nerve at the bend of the elbow. The action of the biceps is twofold. 1. It is a flexor of the forearm. 2. It is a powerful supinator of the forearm, in conse- quence of its insertion into the posterior part of the tubercle of the radius. Its power of supination is greatest when the forearm