LIGAMENTS OP THE KNEE-JOINT. 668 Cotyloid The cotyloid ligament is a piece of fibro-cartilage Ligament. which is attached all round the margin of tlie ace- tabulum. Its circumference is thicker than its free margin, which shelves off; thus it not only deepens the cavity, but embraces the head of the femur like a sucker. It extends over the notch at the lower part of the acetabulum, and in this situation has received the name of the transverse ligament. The ligaments of the hip are so arranged that, when we stand 'at ease,' the pelvis is spontaneously thrown into a position in which its range of motion is the most restricted; for the accessory liga- ment (ilio-femoral) of the capsule prevents it from rolling back- wards, and the ligamentum teres prevents its rolling towards the opposite side. This arrangement economises muscular force in balancing the trunk. The synovial membrane extends down to the base of the neck of the femur in front, but only two-thirds down behind. It is laid upon a thick periosteum. The atmospheric pressure is, of itself, sufficient to keep the limb suspended from the pelvis, supposing all muscles and ligaments to be divided. When fluid is effused into the hip-joint, the bones are no longer maintained in accurate contact; and it sometimes happens that the head of the femur escapes from its cavity, giving rise to a spontaneous dislocation. LiGAMEKTs OF Tho kucc Is a hinge-joint, and, looking at the THE Knee-joint. skeleton, one would suppose that it was very insecure. But this insecurity is only apparent; the joint being surrounded by powerful ligaments, and a thick capsule formed by the tendons of the muscles which act upon it. First examine the tendons concerned in the protection of the knee-joint. In front is the ligamentum patellae; on either side are the tendons of the vasti; at the back of the joint are four tendons—namely, the tendons of the gastrocnemius, the tendon of the semimembranosus, and of the popliteus. It deserves to be noticed that the weakest part of the joint is near the tendon of the popliteus : here, therefore, pus formed in the popliteal space may make its way into the joint, or vice versa.