CENTRAL LINE OF THE NECK. .40 cartilages are connected by the crico-thyroid membrane, across which runs the crico-thyroid artery to join its fellow. Below the cricoid cartilage is the trachea. This is crossed by the isthmus of the thyroid body, and lower down it recedes from the surface, covered by the middle thyroid veins. Now the chief surgical interest lies just above, and just below, the cricoid cartilage. This cartilage can be felt very plainly in the living subject at any age, no matter how fat. In laryngotomy, the crico-thyroid, membrane is divided transversely. The mem- brane should be divided close to the edge of the cricoid c, for two reasons : 1. In order to be farther from the vocal cords. 2. To avoid the crico-thyroid artery which crosses the middle of the membrane. If more room be required, the cricoid cartilage should be divided longitudinally. In tracheotomy, the trachea may be opened by a perpendicular incision, above the isthmus of the thyroid body, or below it. The operation above the isthmus, if there be space enough for the introduction of the tube, is the easier and safer of the two; for here the trachea is nearer to the surface, and no large blood- vessels are, generally speaking, in the way. The space available measures from a quarter to half an inch; and the isthmus is not so firmly adherent to the trachea as to prevent its being drawn downwards for a short distance. However, it is right to state, that in one case out of every eight or ten, there is no available space. Tracheotomy below the isthmus is neither an easy nor a safe operation, for many reasons: 1. The trachea recedes from the surface as it descends, so that just above the sternum it is nearly an inch and a half from the skin. 2. The large middle thyroid veins are in the way. 3. A middle thyroid artery may run up in front of the trachea, direct from the arteria innominata. 4. The arteria innominata itself lies sometimes upon the trachea higher than usual, and may, therefore, be in danger. 5. The left brachio- cephalic vein in some cases crosses the trachea above the edge of the sternum instead of below it. The celebrated French surgeon Beclard used to relate in his lectures the following occurrence :