44 SUBMAXILLARY EEGION. they are of importance, as will be presently explained, in tying the lingual artery. The duct of the gland, Wharton's duct,* passes from its under surface, runs forwards under the mylo-hyoideus and upon the hyo-glossus muscle; it then passes beneath the gustatory nerve, and subsequently runs between the sublingual gland and the genio-hyo-glossus, to open into the floor of the mouth, by the side of the frsenum linguje. Its length is about two inches ; its dimen- sions are not equal throughout; it is dilated about the middle, and contracted at the oriiice. Saliva, collected in the dilated portion, is sometimes spirted to a considerable distance out of the narrow orifice, in consequence of the sudden contraction of the neighbouring muscles. In the floor of the mouth there occasionally exists a cystic tumour, called a ranula, with semi-transparent walls, perceptible beneath the tongue. By some of the older writers it was looked upon as an abnormal dilatation of the submaxillary duct. There is, however, no reason for believing this swelling (except very rarely) to be connected with the duct. It is rather a cyst formed in the loose areolar tissue under the tongue, or is an enlargement of one of the small bursae which normally exist in this situation. The character of the saliva presents no agreement with the fluid contained in these cysts, which is thickly glairy, like the white of an egg.f The facial vein does not accompany the facial artery, but runs nearly a straight course. It leaves the face at the anterior edge of the masseter m., then runs over the submaxillary gland, the digastricus and stylo-hyoideus and the carotid artery, to join the internal jugular. This is the rule—but there are frequent exceptions. The principal point to remember is, that the vein runs superficial to the gland, and that we must be cautious in opening abscesses under the jaw. * Thorn. Wharton, ' Adenographia, seu glandulanim totius corporis descriptio.' 12mo. Amstel., 1659. t These sublingual bursae were first described by Fleischmann, 'De novis sub lingua bursis,'Nuremberg, 1841.