215 OPHTHALMIC GANGLION. coat and the ivis. They are sometimes called short ciliary, to distin- guish them from the long ciliary, two in number, which run on each side of the optic nerve, enter the sclerotic, and extend horizontally for- wards, one on each side of the globe, between the sclerotic and choroid coats, to the ciliary muscle and iris. The anterior ciliary are branches of the muscular arteries, and proceed with the tendons of the recti, and enter the front part of the sclerotic coat. In inflammation of the iris the vascular zone round the cornea arises from enlargement and conges- tion of the anterior ciliary arteries. e. Ethmoidal arteries.—Of these arteries, two in number, the anterior and larger passes through the anterior ethmoidal foramen with the nasal nerve ; the posterior enters the posterior ethmoidal foramen. Both give off anterior meningeal branches to the dura mater, and supply the mucous membrane of the nose, and of the ethmoidal cells. f. Muscular arteries.—These are uncertain in theii' origin, and give off the anterior ciliary branches. g. Palpebral arteries.—These branches, a superior and an inferior proceed from the lachiymal, nasal, and supi-a-orbital arteries, and are dis- tributed to their respective eyelids, forming arches near the margin of the lids between the tarsal cartilages and the orbicularis palpebrarum. h. Nasal artery.—This branch may be considered one of the terminal divisions of the ophthalmic. It leaves the orbit on the nasal side of the eye above the tendon of the orbicularis, and inosculates with the angular artery (termination of the facial). It supplies the side of the nose and the lachrymal sac. i. Frontal artery.—This is the other terminal branch of the oph- thalmic. It emerges at the inner angle of the eye, ascends, and inoscu- lates with the supra-orbital artery. QpHTHALanc This commences at the inner angle of the eye, by a communication with the frontal and angular veins. It runs backwards above the optic nerve in a straighter course than the artery, receives corresponding branches, and finally passes between the two heads of the external rectus, to terminate in the cavernous sinus. Ophthalmic This small ganglion (g, fig. 40, p. 207), of reddish OR Lenticular colour, and about the size of a pin's head, is Ganglion. situated at the back part of the orbit, between the optic nerve and the exteroal rectus. It receives a sensory branch