462 DISSECTION OF THE FEMALE PERINEUM. a layer of elastic and non striped muscular fibres intermixed. Externally there is a plexus of veins bearing a strong resemblance to erectile tissue. ^ The vagina is the canal which leads to the uterus; at present, only the orifice of it can be seen. It is surrounded.by a sphincter muscle, easily displayed by removing the integument. The muscle is about three-fourths of an inch broad, and connected with the cutaneous sphincter of the anus in such a manner that they together form something like the figure 8. On each side of the orifice of the vagina, between the mucous membrane and the sphincter, is a plexus of tortuous veins, termed the bulb of the vagina, from its analogy to the bulb of the urethra in the male. This vaginal bulb is about an inch long and extends across the middle line between the meatus urinarius and the clitoris, as shown in fig. 104. ^ The hymen is a thin fold of mucous membrane which, in the virgin, extends across the lower part of the entrance of the vagina, about half an inch behind the fourchette. In most instances its form is crescent-shaped, with the concavity upwards. There are several varieties of hymen: sometimes there are two folds, one on either side, so as to make the entrance of the vagina a mere vertical fissure;* or there may be a septum perforated by several openings, hymen cribriformis, or by one only, hymen circularis. Again, there may be no open- ing at all in it, and then it is called hymen imperforatus. Under this last condition no inconvenience arises till puberty. The menstrual discharge must then necessarily accumulate in the vagina: indeed, the uterus itself may become distended by it to such an extent as even to simulate pregnancy.f When the hymen is ruptured, it shrivels into a few irregular eminences, called carunculm myrtiformes. The presence of the hymen is not necessarily a proof of vir- ginity, nor does its absence imply the loss of it. Cases are re- * Such a one may be seen in the Museum of the College, Phys. Series, No. 2843. I See Burns' Midwifery.