487 STRUCTURE OF THE SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. in the capsule is surrounded by the epithelium lining the interior of the capsule. The renal artery enters the hilus between the pelvis and the renal vein. It shortly divides into four or five branches, which pass outwards between the papillae, and then enter the cortical portion between the pyramids. In this portion they ascend as far as the bases of the pyramids, and then coursing along their bases they form arches between the cortical and medullary structure, from which small vessels are given ofif, which pass to the Mal- pighian capsules. The nerves forming the renal plexus are derived from the lesser splanchnic nerve and the solar plexus. The lymphatics, consisting of a deep and a superficial set, pass to the lumbar glands. Sttpra-eenal These bodies, situated at the top of the kidneys, Capsules. belong to the class of ductless glands. The right resembles a cocked hat; the left is more almond-shaped. They measure about 1^ inch in their long diameter, and weigh from one to two drachms. They are surrounded by a thin fibrous covering, which sends down partitions into the interior through furrows upon their surface. A perpendicular section shows that it consists of a firm exterior or cortical part, and of an interior or medullary substance, soft and pulpy. The cortical portion is of a yellow colour, and forms the principal part of the organ. Examined under the microscope, it appears to be composed of a delicate fibrous stroma, in which run parallel columns of cells about yoT)^^ diameter, arranged perpendicularly to the surface. These columns do not run completely through the thickness of the cortical portion, but have a zone of cells arranged above and below them. The columns are stated by some to be tubes having a distinct lining membrane; by others, to be closed vesicles; by others, to be cavities in the cortical portion. Small arteries are abun- 'dantly supplied to the cortex, and dip down between the columns. The medullary part varies in colour according to the amount of blood contained in it, being sometimes of a dark-brown colour.