PELVIC VISCERA IN THE FEMALE. 465 one or two small blood-vessels, it contains muscular fibres analo- gous to those of the uterus: these increase very much in preg- nancy, so that, about the full term, the cord becomes nearly as thick as the end of the little finger. In early life, the round liga- ment receives a covering from the peritoneum which advances in a tubular form into the inguinal canal. It corresponds to the pro- cessus vaginalis of the peritoneum in the male. It is called the canal of Nuck, and is generally obliterated in the adult. It may be the seat of a hernia. Side View OF After the removal of the innominate bone, as THE Female described at p. 428, the vagina, rectum, and Pelvic Ohgans. bladder should be moderately distended, and a catheter passed into the urethra. This done, the reflections of the peritoneum must be traced. Eeflbctions P'rom the front of the rectum the peritoneum OF THE Pebi- is reflected on to a small part of the posterior wall TONEUM. j^Y^Q vagina, thus forming what is called the recto-vaginal pouch. From the vagina the peritoneum is con- tinued over the posterior surface, but only about half-way down the front of the uterus ; thence it is reflected over the posterior surface of the bladder, on to the wall of the abdomen. Laterally it is reflected from the uterus to the sides of the pelvis, forming the broad ligaments (p. 473). In cases of ascites the fluid might distend the recto-vaginal pouch, and bulge into the vagina, so that it would be practicable to draw it off through this channel. Pelvic Fascia description of the fascia already given in the dissection of the male pelvis (p. 430) nothing need be added except that from the side of the pelvis it is reflected over the side of the vagina and the uterus, as well as the bladder. It is this fascia which in great measure supports the uterus in its proper level in the pelvis. When, from any cause, the fascia becomes relaxed, there is a liability to prolapsus uteri. Levator ani. For the description of this muscle see p. 439. Bladdeb '^^^ female bladder is broader transversely, and, upon the whole, more capacious than the male. H H