244 PREVERTEBRAL MUSCLES. last, they come out of the spinal canal through the foramina in the back of the sacrum. The upper two or three divide into external and internal branches. The internal terminate in the multifidus spina3; the external become cutaneous and supply the skin of the gluteal region. The last two sacral nerves proceed, without dividing, to the integument. The coccygeal nerve is exceedingly small, and, after joining a small branch from the last sacral, terminates in the skin.* Arteries OF The arteries which supply the back are:—1. THE Back. Small branches from the occipital; 2. Small branches from the vertebral; 3. The deep cervical; 4. The pos- terior branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries. The occipital artery furnishes several small branches to the muscles at the back of the neck; onej larger than the rest, the arteria princeps cervicis, descends beneath the complexus, and generally inosculates with the deep cervical artery, and with small branches from the vertebral. The vertebral artery runs along the groove in the arch of the atlas, and, before perforating the posterior occipito-atlantoid liga- ment to enter the skull, distributes small branches to the adjacent muscles. The deep cervical artery is the posterior branch of the first intercostal artery (from the subclavian). It passes backwards between the transverse process of the' last cervical vertebra and the first rib: it then ascends between the complexus and the semispinalis colli, and anastomoses with the princeps cervicis. The posterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries accompany the corresponding nerves, and are in all respects similar to them in distribution. Each sends a small branch into the spinal canal {intraspinal), and small branches to the vertebra. The veins correspond to the arteries. PRiE-YERTEBBAi- Wc havc, lastly, to examine three muscles Muscles. situated in front of the spine: namely, the longus colli, the rectus capitis anticus major, and the rectus capitis * The brandling of the posterior divisions of the several spinal nerves has been accurately described by Ellis, 'Mod. Gazette,' Feb. 10, 1843.