PELVIC VISCERA IN THE FEMALE. 463 lated by writers on midwifery in which a division of the hymen was requisite to facilitate parturition. In Meckel's Museum, at Halle, are preserved the external organs of a female in whom the hymen is perfect even after the birth of a seven-months' child. Bartholin's Between the orifice of the vagina and the erector OR Duvernet's clitoridis is embedded in the loose tissue on either Glanbs. gi(jQ a small gland,* which corresponds to Cow- per's gland in the male. Each is about half an inch in length. Its long slender duct runs forwards and opens on the inner side of the nympha. In cases of virulent gonorrhoea these glands are apt to become diseased, and give rise to the formation of an abscess in the labium, very difficult to heal. The description of the perineal branches of the pudic vessels and nerves, given in the dissection of the male perineum, applies, mutatis mutandis, to the female, excepting that they are propor- tionably small, and that the artery which supplies the bulb of the urethra in the male is distributed to the bulb of the vagina in the female. DISSECTION OF THE FEMALE PELVIC VISCERA. The internal organs of generation—viz. the vagina, uterus, and its appendages—should now be examined. Their relative position should first be noticed ; and afterwards, their special anatomy. General '^^^ uterus is interposed between the bladder in Position of the front, and the rectum behind. From each side of Uterus and its it a broad fold of peritoneum extends transversely Appendages. sj^jg pelvis, dividing that cavity into an anterior and a posterior part. These folds are called the broad ligaments of the uterus (fig. 106, p. 473). On the posterior sur- face of the ligament are the ovaries, one on each side. They are completely covered by peritoneum, and suspended to the ligament by a small peritoneal fold. Each ovary is attached to the uterus by a cord termed the ligament of the ovary. Along the upper * See Tiedemann, ' Von den Duverneysclien Drusen desWeibs.' Heidelberg, IS-iO.