DISSECTION OF THE HEART. 158 To the left of the Eustachian valve, that is, between its remains and the auriculo-ventricular opening, is the orifice of the coronary vein; it is guarded by a semicircular valve, called ' valvula The- besii,'' to prevent regurgitation of the blood during the auricular contraction. Here and there upon the posterior wall of the auricle may be observed minute openings called ^foramina Thebesii:' some being the orifices of small veins returning blood from the substance of the heart; others being simple depressions in the muscular tissue. To the left, and rather in front of the orifice of the vena cava inferior, is the auriculo-ventricular opening guarded by the tricuspid valve. It is oval in form, and will admit the passage of three fingers. Lastly, between the orifices of the supe- rior and inferior vense cavse is a rounded elevation, the tubercle of Lower (not seen in the diagram), which is supposed to direct the current of blood in foetal life, from the superior cava to the auri- culo-ventricular opening. Eight Yen- This forms the right border and about two- TMCLE. thirds of the front surface of the heart. To examine its interior, a triangular flap should be raised from its anterior wall. The apex of this flap should be below : one cut along the right edge of the ventricle, the other along the line of the ventricular septum. Observe that the wall of the ventricle is much thicker than that of the auricle. The cavity of the ventricle is conical, with its base upwards and to the right. From its walls project bands of muscular fibres, ' columnoe carnecB^ of various length and thickness, which cross each other in every direction; this muscular network is generally filled with coagulated blood. Of these columnae carnese there are three kinds: one, stands out in relief from the ventricle ; another is attached to the ventricle by its extremities only, the intermediate portion being free; a third, and by far the most important set, called ^musculi papil-- lares,^ is fixed by one extremity to the wall of the ventricle, while the other extremity gives attachment to the fine tendinous cords, ' cordce tendinem,' which regulate the action of the tricuspid valve. The number of these musculi papillares is equal to the number of the chief segments of the valve ; consequently there are three in