401 ABDOMINAL AORTA. rib, and enables it to serve as a fixed point for the action of the intercostal muscles and the diaphragm.* By raising the quadratus, we observe the aponeurotic origin of the transversalis from the summits of the transverse pro- cesses: this constitutes the posterior part of its sheath, and separates the muscle from the erector spinse. Before examiniDg the course of the aorta and its great-primary divisions, notice that a chain of lymphatic glands extends along the brim of the pelvis and the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, following the coarse of the great blood-vessels. Grenerally speaking they are small; only one here and there attracts obser- vation. They transmit the lymphatics from the lower limbs, the abdominal wall, and the testicle; and all eventually lead to the receptaculum chyli, or beginning of the thoracic duct (p. 142). This is usually found on the right of the aorta, close to the second lumbar vertebra. Kelations of The aorta enters the abdomen between the THE Abdominal crura of the diaphragm in front of the last dorsal AoHTA. vertebra, and descends a little to the left side of the front of the spine, as low as the middle of the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it divides into the two common iliac arteries. The division is about the level of the highest point of the crest of the ilium, and just below the left side of the umbilicus. The aorta is crossed in front by the splenic vein, the pancreas, the trans- verse portion of the duodenum, the left renal vein, the mesentery ; and it has also in front of it a chain of lymphatic glands. To the right side of it lie the vena cava inferior, the thoracic duct, the vena azygos, and the right crus of the diaphragm. To the left side of it is the left crus, and on each side are the sympathetic nerves. * The respective attachments of the quadratus himborum, the crossing of its fibres, and its mode of action, lead to the inference that it is a large intercostal muscle. It is worth remembering that the outer edge of the quadratus liimborum, in a well-grown adult, is about throe inches from the spines of the lumbar vertebrae, and midway between the last rib and the crest of the ilium. It is just outside the edge of thi.s muscle that we can cut down to open the large bowel without woundin<> the peritoneum. D D