531 PERONEI MUSCLES. DoESAL This artery, the continuation of the anterior Ahtery of the tibial, runs over the instep to the interval between Foot. ^.jjg f^j-g^ ^nd second metatarsal bones, where it sinks into the sole and joins the deep plantar arch. On the dorsum of the foot it runs along the outer side of the extensor proprius pollicis, and before it dips down into the sole, is crossed by the short extensor tendon of the great toe; The dorsal artery gives off the following branches :—- a. The tarsal branch arises near the' scaphoid bone, passes beneath the extensor brevis digitorum towards the outside of the foot, supplies the bones and joints of the tarsuS; and inosculates with the external malleolar, the peroneal, the metatarsal, and the external plantar arteries. b. The metatarsal branch generally runs towards the outside of the foot, beneath the short extensor tendons, near'- the bases of the metatarsal bones, and gives off the three outer interosseous arteries. These pass forwards over the corresponding interosseous muscles, supply them, and then subdivide to supply the contiguous sides of the upper surfaces of the toes. They communicate by perforating branches with the plantar arteries at each end of the interosseous spaces. c. The dorsalis hallucis is, strictly speaking, the artery of the fii-st interosseous space. It comes from the dorsal artery of the foot just before this sinks into the sole, and runs forwards to supply digital branches to the sides of the great toe, and the inner side of the second toe. Peronei These muscles are situated on the outer side of Muscles. fibula, and are named, respectively, peraneus longus and brevis. Pekonexjs This arises from the outer surface of the fibula LoxGus. along-its upper, two-thirds, from the fascia and the intermuscular septa. The .fibres terminate in a penniform manner upon a tendon, which runs through. a groove behind the external malleolus, then along the outer side of the os calcis, and, lastly, through a groove on the under surface of the os cuboides deep into the sole. It crosses the sole obliquely forwards and in- wards, and is inserted into the tarsal end of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. In its course through these several bony grooves the tendon is confined by a fibrous sheath, lined by a synovial M M 2