261 AXILLARY FASCIA. DISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. Sebaceous On the under surface of the skin of the axilla, Glands. near the roots of the hairs, are numerous sebaceous glands. They are of a reddish-brown colour, and rather larger than a pin's head. Axillart Fas- This dense fascia, which lies immediately be- ciA. neath the skin of the axilla, is a continuation of the general investment of the muscles. It closes in and forms the floor of the cavity of the axilla. Externally, it is strengthened by fibres from the tendons of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi, and is continuous with the fascia of the arm; internally, it is prolonged on the side of the chest, over the serratus magnus muscle; in front and behind it divides, so as to inclose between its layers the muscles which form the boundaries of the axilla. Thus the anterior layer incloses the two pectoral muscles, and is connected with the coracoid process, the costo-coracoid ligament, and the clavicle; the posterior layer incloses the latissimus dorsi, and passes backwards to the spine. A subcutaneous artery, sometimes of considerable size, is often found in the substance of the axillary fascia. It generally arises from the brachial, or from the lower part of the axillary, and runs across the floor of the axilla towards the lower edge of the pecto- ralis major. It is not a named branch, but should be remembered, as it would occasion much hasmorrhage if wounded in opening an abscess. Dissection and Reflect the axillary fascia, to display the Contents of the boundaries and the contents of the axilla. The Axilla. dissection of this space is difficult, and must be done cautiously. Bear in mind that the trunk blood-vessels and nerves run through the upper and outer part of the axilla; that the long thoracic artery runs along the anterior border, and the subscapular artery along the posterior. Commence dissecting, therefore, in the middle; break down with the handle of the scalpel the loose connective tissue, fat, and lymphatic glands, which occupy the cavity. You will soon discover some cutaneous nerves