DISSECTION OP THE BEAIN. 591 longitudinal fissure about its middle,' then runs downwards and forwards, and terminates a little above the fork of the Sylvian fissure. The parieto-occipital fissure is seen on the median surface of the hemisphere towards its posterior part. It begins on its median surface about half an inch behind the corpus callosum, then ascends nearly verticaly, and ends on the external aspect of the cerebrum about an inch from the longitudinal fissure.* Other important fissures besides the primary just described are seen on the cerebral surface. They are chiefly found on the median aspect of the hemisphere, and are as follows (fig. 144) :— The calloso-marginal fissure runs nearly parallel with the anterior two-thirds of the corpus callosum, then, changing its direction, it ascends obliquely and terminates on "the external aspect of the hemisphere, where it forms a deep notch immedi- ately behind the fissure of Eolando. The calcarine fissure, also seen on the median surface, begins close to the posterior border of the cerebrum, and then, running nearly horizontally forwards, terminates below the corpus callosum. Midway in its course it is joined at an acute angle by the parieto- occipital fissure. The primary fissures form the boundaries of the various lobes of which each hemisphere is composed. Thus the frontal lobe is that part ^f the cerebrum anterior to the fissure of Rolando on the external surface, and the calloso- marginal fissure on the median. The parietal lobe is placed between the fissure of Rolando and the external parieto-occipital fissure. The occipital lobe consists of the posterior part of the hemi- sphere behind and below the parieto-occipital fissiu-e. The tem- poro-sphenoidal lobe is bounded above by the horizontal ramus of the Sylvian fissure, and forms that part of the hemisphere which occupies the middle cerebral fossa. The island of Reil or the central lobe lies deep in the fissure * The fissure of Eolando is first seen aboxit the fifth month of fcetal life; the parieto-occipital fissure, bet-ween the fourth and fifth month.