DISSECTION OP THE BRAIN. 606 Upwards, each to the optic thalamus of its own side. As they descend the anterior crura are joined by the peduncles of the pineal body and by the taenia semicircularis. Immediately behind and below the anterior crura is a passage through which the choroid plexuses of opposite sides are continuous with each other. FoEAMEN OF Thls apcrture is called the foramen of Monro MoNEo. (^fig. 150). Strictly speaking, it is not a foramen, But only a communication between the two lateral and the third ventricles. The postenor crura are continued downwards and outwards from the body of the fornix as thin flat white bands intimately connected with the concave side of the hippocampus major as far down as the pes hippocampi. Each band is called the taenia hippocampi or the corpusfimhriatum* The fornix should now be cut through, and its two portions reflected. On the under surface of the posterior portion are seen fibres, arranged transversely, belonging to the corpus callosum, constituting what is termed the lyra. Between the fornix and the upper surface of the cerebellum is the transverse fissure, or fissure of Bichat, through which the pia mater enters the ventricles. The fissure extends from the middle downwards on each side to the base of the brain, as far as the end of the descending horn. It is of a horse-shoe shape, with the concavity directed forwards. The upper boundary of that part of the transverse fissure which extends into the middle horn is sometimes called the free margin of the hemisphere. CoBPus Steia- This body is so called because, when cut into, TOM. it presents alternate layers of white and grey matter.! It is a much larger mass of grey substance than it * The fornix and septum lucidum are absent in fish ; they are merely rudimen- tary in reptiles and birds; but all mammalia have them in greater or less perfection, according to the degree of development of the cerebral hemispheres. t The vfhite lines in the corpus striatum are produced by the fibres of the cms cerebri, "which traverse this mass of grey matter before they expand to form the hemisphere. The grey matter itself is sometimes- called tlie anterior cerebral ganglion. It is found in all mammalia, in birds, and, to a certain extent, in reptiles. On a transverse section it is triangular, with its base directed outwards. At this part it is divided by two clear lines into three zones. Outside is a grey layer called the claustrum.