159 DISSECTION OF THE HEART. the right and two in the left ventricle. Of those in the right ventricle, one proceeds from the septum. There are two openings in the right ventricle. One, the aumculo^entricular, through which the blood passes from the auricle, is oval in form and placed at the base of the ventricle. It is surrounded by a ring of fibrous tissue, to which is attached the tricuspid valve. From the upper and front part of the ven- tricle, a smooth passage, ' infundibulum' or ' conus arteriosus,^ leads to the opening of the pulmonary artery. It is situated to the left and in front of the auriculo-ventricular opening, and about three-fourths of an inch higher. Tricuspid This is situated at the right auriculo-ventri- Valve. cular opening, and consists of three principal triangular flaps, and besides these, of intermediate flaps of smaller size. Like all the valves of the heart, it is formed by a fold of the lining membrane {endocardium) of the heart strengthened by fibrous tissue, in which a few muscular fibres may be demon- strated. The bases of the valves are continuous with one another, so that they form a membranous ring between the auricle and ventricle, while the segments project into the cavity of the right ventricle. Of its three principal flaps, the largest or anterior is so placed, that, when not in action, it partially covers the orifice of the pulmonary artery; another, the internal, corresponds with the inferior wall of the ventricle ; the third, or posterior, rests upon the septum ventriculorum. Observe the arrangement of the tendinous cords which regulate the action of the valve. First, they are all attached to the ven- tricular surface of the valve. Secondly, the tendinous cords proceeding from a given papillary muscle are attached to the adjacent halves of two of the larger flaps, and to a smaller inter- mediate one ; consequently, when the ventricle contracts, and the papillary muscle also, the adjacent borders of the flaps will be approximated. Thirdly, to insure the strength of every part of the valve, the tendinous cords are inserted at three different points of it in straight lines; accordingly, they are divisible into three sets. Those of the first, which are three or four in number, are