575 LIGAMENTS OF THE TAESAL JOINTS. Calcaneo- scAPHOiD Liga- ment. Fig. 136. In the skeleton the head of the astragalus articulates in front with the scaphoid, but the lower part of it is unsupported. This interval is bridged over by a very strong and slightly elastic ligament, which extends from the os calcis to the scaphoid (fig. 1 34). These bones, together with the ligament, form a complete socket for the head of the astragalus ; it is this joint, chiefly, which permits the abduction and adduction of the foot. The ligament being slightly elastic, allows the keystone of the arch (the astragalus) a play, which is of great service in preventing concussion of the body. 'V\'lienever this ligament yields, the head of the astragalus falls, and the individual becomes gradually flat-footed. The ligament is thick and strong, and passes horizontally for- wards from the sustentaculum tali to the plantar surface of the scaphoid, where it is connected with the tendon of the tibialis posticus, and, superiorly, with the astragalo-scaphoid ligament. The external calcaneo-scaphoid ligament is short, lying in the hollow between the astragalus and os calcis, and passes from the ridge on the anterior part of the OS calcis to the outer side of the scaphoid. Calcaneo- The OS calcis articulates with cuBoro Joint. the OS cuboides nearly on a line with the joint between the astragalus and t^e scaphoid. The bones are firmly connected by the inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligament, of which the superficial portion, the ligamentum longum plantce, is attached to the os calcis as far as the tubercle, and passes forwards to the plantar aspect of the cuboid ; some of its fibres extend to the second, third, and fourth meta- tarsal bones, and complete the canal for the tendon of the peroneus longus. The ligamen- tum breve plantce is very broad, and passes from the os calcis to the inner side of the cuboid bone. The dorsal ligament connects the upper surfaces of the bones. 1. Calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. 2. Calcaneo-cuboid ligament.