SUPERFICIAL VESSELS OF THE GEOIN. 355 cutaneous blood-vessels, the lymphatic glands, the ilio-inguinal nerve, and the hypogastric branch of the ilio-hypogastric nerve. Eespecting the superficial layer, observe that it contains the fat, and is continuous with the superficial fascia of the thigh, the scrotum, and the perineum. The deeper layer is intimately con- nected with Poupart's ligament and the linea alba ; but it is very loosely continued over the spermatic cord and the scrotum, and becomes identified with the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the perineum. These points deserve attention, since they explain how urine, extravasated into the perineum and scrotum, readily makes its way over the spermatic cord on to the surface of the ab- domen ; but from this it cannot travel down the thigh, on account of the connection of the fascia with Poupart's ligament. „ Between the layers of the superficial fascia on Superficial ^ Blood-yessbls the groin and upper part of the thigh, are several AND Lymphatic lymphatic glands and small blood-vessels (fig. 69). Glands. -jij^g glands are named, according to their situation, inguinal or femoral. The inguinal, from three to four in number, are often small, and escape observation. They are of an oval form, with their long axis corresponding to the line of the crural arch (represented by the dark line in fig. 69). They receive the super- ficial lymphatics from the lower part of the wall of the abdomen, from the scrotum, penis, perineum, anus, and gluteal region, and are therefore generally affected in venereal disease. The lymph- atics from the upper part of the abdominal parietes terminate in the lumbar glands. The superficial arteries in the neighbourhood arise from the femoral. One, the superficial epigastric, ascends over Poupart's ligament and ramifies over the lower part of the abdomen, as high as the umbilicus, inosculating with the deep epigastric artery ; another, the superfi,cial external pudic, crosses the spermatic cord, and is distributed to the skin of the penis and scrotum; a third, the superficial circumflexa ilii, ramifies towards the spine of the ilium. These subcutaneous arteries, the pudic especially, often occasion a free haemorrhage in the operation for strangulated hernia. A A 2