INFRA-CLAVICULAR REGION. 260 back of the thumb and forefinger, it runs up the radial side of the forearm, in front of the elbow-joint; thence ascending along the outer edge of the biceps, it runs up the interval between the pec- toralis major and deltoid, pierces the costo-coracoid membrane, and finally empties itself into the axillary vein.* Anteeiok Tho- These nerves come from the brachial plexus be- EAcic Nerves. Iqw the clavicle to supply the pectoral muscles. There are generally two—an external and an internal—one for each pectoral muscle. The external, the more superficial, arises from the outer cord of the brachial plexus, passes over the axillary artery, and supplies the pectoralis major; the internal comes from the internal cord, and runs between the axillary artery and vein, to the under surface of the pectoralis minor. „ From' this view of the relations of the axillarv Difficulty of _ ^ TYING THE. FiHsr artcry in the first part of its course, some idea PART OF THE Axil- may be formed of the difficulty of passing a ligature LARY Artery. round it in this situation. In addition to its great depth from the surface, varieties sometimes occur in the position of the nerves and veins, which renders the operation still more embarrassing. For instance, the anterior thoracic nerves may be more numerous than usual, and form by their mutual communi- cation a plexus around the artery. A large nerve is often seen crossing obliquely over the artery, immediately below the clavicle, to form one of the roots of the median nerve. The cephalic vein may ascend higher than usual, and open into the subclavian; and as it receives large veins corresponding to the thoracic axis, a con- course of veins would be met with in front of the artery. Again, it is by no means uncommon to find a deep-seated vein, the supra- scapular, crossing over the artery to join the axillary vein. * The cephalic vein, in some cases, runs over the clavicle to join the external jugular; or there maybe a communication (termed jugulo^cephalic) bet-ween these veins.