546 HAMSTRING MUBOLES* of the knee dislocates the leg outwards and backwards, and at the same time rotates it outwards. Each head of the biceps is supplied by the great ischiatic nerve. The short head is some- times supplied by the peroneal. Semiten- This arises, in common with the biceps, from DiNosus. the back part of the tuber ischii. The fibres ter- minate upon a long round tendon, which rests upon the semi- membranosus, and is inserted into the inner surface of the tibia by an expanded tendon, below the tendon of the gracilis, and behind that of the sartorius. Like them, it plays over the internal lateral ligament of the knee, and is provided with a bursa. Its nerve comes from the great ischiatic. The semitendinosus sends off from the lower border of its tendon a very strong fascia to cover the leg, which is attached along the inner edge of the tibia. The middle of the muscle is intersected by an oblique tendinous line. Semimem- This muscle arises from the tuber ischii above BRANosus. and external to the two preceding, by means of a strong flat tendon, which extends nearly half-way down the thigh. This tendon descends obliquely under the biceps and semi- tendinosus, and terminates in a bulky muscle, which lies on a deeper plane, and more internal, than the others, and is inserted by a thick tendon into the posterior part of the head of the tibia. In connection with the insertion of this tendon, notice, 1, that it is prolonged under the internal lateral ligament of the knee, and that a bursa intervenes between them ; 2, that it sends a strong prolongation upwards and outwards to the external condyle of the femur, forming the principal portion of the ligamentum 'poSticum Winslowii, which covers the back of the knee-joint; 3, that a dense fascia proceeds from its lower border, and binds down the popliteus ; 4, that it is intimately connected with the semilunar cartilages of the joint, so as to keep them in place during its movements. Its nerve comes from the great ischiatic. A large bursa is almost invariably found between the semi- membranosus and the inner head of the gastrocnemius, where they rub one against the other. It is generally from one and a