DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOEEARM. 331 by a strong layer of fascia, derived from the tendon of the triceps, and appears like a continuation of that muscle. It arises by a tendon from the posterior part of the external condyle of the humerus, and is inserted into the triangular surface on the upper fourth of the outer part of the ulna. Part of the under surface of tlie muscle is in contact with the capsule of the elbow-join^. Its action is to assist in extending the forearm. Its nerve comes from the musculo-spiral. To expose the deep layer of muscles, detach Dissection • from the external condyle the extensor carpi radialis brevior, the extensor communis digitorum, tlie extensor minimi digiti, and the extensor carpi ulnaris; and, after noticing the vessels and nerves which enter their under surface, turn them down. The deep-seated muscles, with the posterior interosseous artery and nerve, must be dissected. The muscles exposed are: ^ 1. The extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. 2. Ex- Deep-seated ,. : Muscles on the tensor primi internodii pollicis. 3. Extensor se- Back of the cundi internodii pollicis. 4. Extensor indicis or Forearm. indicator. 5. The supinator radii brevis. They are all supplied by branches from the posterior interosseous nerve. Extensor This muscle arises from the posterior surface of Obsis Metacarpi the ulna below the supinator brevis, from the Pollicis. posterior surface of the radius, and from the inter- osseous membrane. The muscle crosses the radial extensors of the wrist about three inches above the carpus, and terminates in a tendon, which passes along a common groove with the extensor primi internodii pollicis, lined by synovial membrane, on the outer part of the lower end of the radius, and is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and frequently also by a tendinous slip into the trapezium. Extensor T\xi& small muscle arises from the posterior Primi Internodii surface of the radius, below the preceding, and Pollicis. fj.Qjj^ ^j^e interosseous membrane. It descends obliquely in company with the preceding muscle, turns over the radial extensors of the wrist, and terminates upon a tendon which passes beneath the annular ligament, through the groove on the