96 TEMPORAL REGION. aspect of the ear, mainly on the tragus and upper half of the auricle; the lower supplies the lobule and lower part of the pinna. Lastly, in the subcutaneous tissue of the temple, we find the temporal branches of the facial nerve, which supply the frontalis, the attrahens aurem, the orbicularis palpebrarum, tensor tarsi, and corrugator supercilii. Masseteb This muscle arises from the lower edge of the Muscle. zygoma, and is inserted into the outer side of the ramus and coronoid process of the jaw. The masseter is com- posed of superficial and deep fibres which cross like the letter X, The superficial fibres, constituting the principal part of the muscle, arise from the anterior two-thirds of the zygoma by tendinous fibres which occupy the front border of the muscle, and send aponeurotic partitions into its substance. These fibres pass down- wards and backwards, this direction giving them greater advantage, and are inserted into the angle and part of the ramus of the jaw. The deep fibres, mainly muscular (which are concealed by the parotid gland), arise from the posterior third of the zygoma, incline forwards, and are inserted into the upper half of the ramus and the coronoid process. Besides these, a few fibres, arising from the inner surface of the zygoma, are inserted into the coronoid pro- cess and the tendon of the temporal muscle. Its action is to raise the jaw and help to masticate the food. The following objects lie upon the masseter: 1. Glandula socia parotidis, and parotid duct: 2. Transversalis faciei artery: 3. Facial artery and vein: 4. Branches of the facial nerve. Reflect the masseter from its origin and turn it DISSECTION downwards. Observe the direction of the super- ficial and deep fibres, and the tendinous partitions which augment the power of the muscle by increasing its extent of origin. The masseteric nerve and artery enter the under surface of the muscle near to its posterior border, through the sigmoid notch of the jaw ; the artery comes from the internal maxillary, the nerve from the motor division of the inferior maxillary. Temporal This strong shining membrane covers the tem- Aponeueosis. poral muscle; its chief use being to give additional