DISSECTION OF THE LAEYNX. 1S9 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. Situation and The larynx is the upper part of the air-passage. Relations. in which vocalisation takes place. It is ^ com- plicated apparatus consisting of numerous cartilages articulated together to form an open tube. It forms a prominence in the middle line of the neck, covered in front by the integument and cervical fascia, the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and thyro-hyoid muscles and the thyroid body. It has the great vessels of the neck on each side. Above, it is attached to the hyoid bone; below, it is continuous with the trachea; behind it, is the pharynx, into which it opens. Before commencing the dissection of the larynx, the student should make himself acquainted with the cartilages which compose it, and the ligaments which connect them, as seen in a dry pre- paration. This bone, named from its resemblance to the Grreek Upsilon, is situated between the larynx and the tongue, and serves for the attachment of the muscles of the tongue. It may be felt immediately below, and one inch and a half behind, the symphysis of the jaw. It consists of a body, two greater and two lesser cornua. The body is the thick central portion. Its anterior surface is convex, and has a median vertical ridge; on each side of which are depressions for the attachments of muscles; its posterior surface is smooth, concave, and corresponds to the epiglottis. The greater cornua (right and left) project backwards for about an inch and a half, with a slight inclination upwards, and terminate in blunt ends tipped with cartilage. In young subjects they are connected to the body of the bone by fibro-cartilage; this in process of years becomes ossified. The lesser cornua are connected, one on each side, to the point of junction between the body and the greater cornua, by means of a little joint lined with synovial membrane, which admits of free motion. They are of the size of a barley-corn, and give attachment. to the stylo-hyoid ligaments.