ARTERIES OF THE FACE. 85 The chief use of the buccinator is to keep the food between the teeth during mastication. It can also widen the mouth. Its power of expelling air from the mouth, as in whistling or playing on a wind instrument, has given rise to its peculiar name. It is supplied by tlie facial nerve, and is, therefore, affected in facial paralysis. ^ ^ The buccinator muscle is covered by a thin layer of fascia, which adheres closely to its surface, and is attached to the alveolar border of the upper and lower jaw. This structure is thin over the anterior part of the muscle, but more dense behind, where it is continuous with the aponeurosis of the pharynx. It is called the hucco-phat^ngeal fascia, since it supports and strengthens the muscular walls of these cavities. In consequence of the density of this fascia, abscesses do not readily burst into the mouth or the pharynx. BuccAi. AN75 The buccal glands, in structure compound race- MoLAK Glands. mose like the salivary, are situated between the buccinator and the mucous membrane. They resemble the labial glands found beneath the mucous membrane of the lips, though somewhat smaller. Three or four other glands, about the size of a little split pea, should be made out, as they lie between the masseter and buccinator; these are the molar glands. Their secretion, said to be mucous, is conveyed to the mouth by separate ducts near the last molar teeth. Between the buccinator and the masseter, there is, in almost all subjects, an accumulation of fat. It is found, beneath the zygoma especially, in large round masses, and may be turned out with the handle of the scalpel. It helps to fill up the zygomatic fossa, and being soft and elastic, presents no obstacle to the free movements of the jaw. Its absorption in emaciated individuals occasions the sinking of the cheek. Facial Ahtert "^^^ facial (external maxillary) artery is the third brands of the external carotid. It runs tortuously beneath the hypoglossal nerve, the posterior belly of the digastricus and the stylo-hyoideus, next through or under the substance of the submaxillary gland, and mounts over the base of