DISSECTION OP THE OEGAN OP HEARUft}. 658 comprehending the shape of the membranous labyrinth in its interior,— a structure supporting the ultimate ramifications of the auditory nerve. The membranous labyrinth floats in a fluid called the jperi-lymph or liquor Cotunnii, which is secreted by the delicate serous membrane lining the osseous labyrinth. The membranous labyrinth is a sac, contained partly in the vestibule and partly in the semicircular canals : that situated in the vestibule is termed the vestibular portion ; that in the bony canals, the membranous semicircular canals. The sac in the vestibule is so constructed as to form two sacs of imequal size, which indirectly communicate with each other.* The larger of the two, called the utricle or common sinus, is oval, and communicates with the five openings of the membranous semicircular canals. It is lodged in the fovea hemielliptica, and its wall is thickest close to the crista vestibuli, where branches from the auditory nerve enter it. The smaller, called the saccule, is globular and flattened, and lies in the fovea hemispherica, in front of the utricle. It is connected with the membranous canal of the cochlea by a small short duct, termed the canalis reuniens. The utricle and the saccule contain on their inner wall a minute mass of calcareous matter in connection with nerve ends, called by Breschet the otoliths or otoconia. They are crystals of car- bonate of lime, and are present in the labyrinth of all mammalia. From their greater hardness and size in aquatic animals, there is reason to believe that they perform the ofl&ce of rendering the vibrations of sound sharper and more distinct.f Membranous The membranous semicircular canals present Semiciecular the same dilatations or ampullae as the bony ones. Canals. q^^q gj)i(j^ ^t^^ at this part they nearly fill their * From the utricle there proceeds a small canal, "which lies in the aqueductus vestibuli; this is joined close to its commencement by a similar canal from the saccule; thus forming the indirect communication above alluded to. t For a detailed description of the relation of the otoliths Mnth the hair-like processes of the nerve-filaments, the student is referred to an article by Dr. Urban Pritchard in the 'Quarterly Journal of Microscopic Science,' October, 1876, entitled 'The Termination of the Nerves in the Vestibule, and Semicircular Canals of Mammals.'