486 STRUCTURE OF THE KIDNEY. Fig. 112. an inch in diameter, and are largest towards their termination. On entering the cortex, the tubes become convohited, and are sur- rounded by minute plexuses of blood-vessels. The tubuli uriniferi, the pelvis of the kidney, and the ureter, are lined by spheroidal epithelium. Between the straight tubes in the Malpighian pyramids, there have been discovered numerous smaller tubules, named the looped tubes of Henle. These come off from the straight tubes in the cortical portion, descend towards the apex of the pyramid, where they form loops, and again ascend to terminate in the Malpighian capsules. The Malpighian capsules are situated in the cortical portion, average about jth of an inch in diameter, and are visible to the naked eye as minute red points. According to Bowman,* each is formed by the dilatation of the uriniferous tube. It is comnosed of a A. homogeneous membrane, and is pierced by a small artery, afferent vessel, which enters the capsule opposite to the commencement of the urinary tube. In the capsule the artery breaks up into a coil of minute vessels, glomerulus, and returns its blood by a vein (efferent vessel), which emerges from the capsule close to where the artery entered (fig. 112). Instead of leaving the kidney, as in other organs, the vein forms a plexus round the convolutions of the urinary tube.f The purpose of this plexus appears to be the secretion of the solid matter of the urine; while the Malpig- hian body filters the watery part of the urine into the capsule, and washes the mere solid part down the tube.! The coil of vessels * ■ Philosoph. Trans.' for 1842; part i. f For a summary of tlie opinion held by various observers, respecting these Mal- pighian corpuscles, consult a paper by R. Southe?, M.D., ' St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Eeports,' vol. i. 1865. % That the vessel leaving the Malpighian body is a vein, and that a constituent part of the urine is secreted by venous blood, is inferred from two reasons: 1. From the analogous case of the vena portse, out of which the bile is elaborated in the liver ; 2. from the fact that in reptiles the urine is secreted from venous blood. a. Artery. V. Vein, or efferent vessel c. Capsule. d. Urinary tube.