DISSECTION OP THE THORAX. 120 enlargement of the chest at its upper part, in adaptation to the condition of the abdomen during pregnancy. Dissection. Opening must be made into the chest, by carefully removing the upper four-fifths of the sternum, and the cartilages of all the true ribs.* In doing this, care must be taken not to wound the pleura, which is ■ closely connected with the cartilages. On one side the internal mammary artery should be dissected; on the other, re- moved. In the dissection of the chest let us take the parts in the following order:— 1. Triangularis sterni, with the internal mammary artery. 2. Mediastina, anterior, middle, and posterior. 3. Right and left brachio-cephalic veins and superior vena cava. 4. Course and relations of the arch of the aorta. 5. The three great branches of the arch. 6. Course of the phrenic nerves. 7- Position and relations of the heart. 8. Pericardium. 9. Pleura. 10. Position and form of the lungs. 11. Posterior mediastinum and its contents; namely, the aorta, the thoracic duct, the vena pzygos, the oesophagus, and pneumogastric nerves. 12. Sympathetic nerve. 13. Intercostal musoles, vessels and nerves. 14. Nerves of the heart; cardiac plexuses. Teiangtjlaeis On the under surface of the sternum and carti- Steeni. lages of the ribs is a thin flat muscle, named the triangularis sterni. It arises from the ensiform cartilage, the lower part of the sternum, and the cartilages of one or two lower true ribs, and is inserted by digitations into the cartilages of the true ribs from the sixth to the second : its fibres ascend outwards to their insertion. This muscle is evidently a continuation up- wards of the anterior portion of the transversalis abdominis. Its * Those who are more proficient in dissection should not remove the whole of tlio sternum, but leave a quarter of an inch of its upper part with the first rib attached to it. This portion serves as a valuable landmark, although it obstructs, to a certain ex- tent, the view of the subjacent vessels.