182 DISSECTION OP THE PHAETNX. Openings into Lay open the pharynx by a longitudinal incision, TUB Pharynx. and observe the seven openings leading into it (fig. 34):—1. The two posterior openings of the nares. 2. On either side of them, near the lower turbinated bones, are the openings of the Eustachian tubes: below the nares is the soft palate, with the uvula. 3. Below the soft palate is the communi- cation with the mouth, called the isthmus faucium. On either side of this are two folds of mucous membrane, constituting the anterior and posterior half-arches of the palate; between them are the tonsils. Below the isthmus faucium is the epiglottis, which is connected to the base of the tongue by three folds of mucous membrane. 4. Below the epiglottis is the aperture of the larynx. 5. Lastly, is the opening into the cBsophagus.* Mucous These structures are lined by mucous membrane Membeane. common to the entire tract of the respiratory passages and the alimentary canal. But this membrane presents varieties in the different parts of these channels, according as they are intended as passages for air or for food. The mucous membrane of the pharynx above the velum palati, being intended to transmit air only, is very delicate in its texture, and lined by columnar ciliated epithelium like the rest of the air-passages. But opposite the fauces, the mucous membrane resembles that of the mouth, and is provided with squamous epithelium. At the back of the larynx the membrane is corrugated into folds, to allow the expansion of the pharynx during the passage of the food. The membrane is lubricated hj a secretion from the numerous mucous glands which are situated in the submucous tissue through- out the whole extent of the pharynx, particularly in the neighbour- hood of the Eustachian tubes. PosTHRiOR These are two oval openings, each of which is Openinos of the about an inch in the long, and half an inch in the Nasal Fossae. gi^Q^t diameter. They are bounded above by the « On reflecting tlie mucous membrane at the pharyngeal termination of the EustacliiMn tube, a thin pale muscle, the salpingo-jyharyngeits, can be made out. It arises by a thin tendon from the Eustachian tube, and joins the palato-pharyngeus. It is lost, among the fibres of the constrictor muscles.