PTERTGO-MAXILLART EEGION. 97 origin to its fibres. It is attached above to the temporal ridge, and increasing in thickness as it descends, divides near the zygoma into two layers, which are attached to the outer and inner surfaces of the zygomatic arch. These layers are separated by fat, in which is found a filament from the orbital branch of the- superior maxillary nerve. The density of this aponeurosis explains why abscesses in the temporal fossa rarely point outwards; the pus generally makes its way, beneath the zygoma, into the mouth. Eeflect the aponeurosis, and notice that it is separated from the temporal muscle, near the zygoma, by fat. The absorption of this fat, and the wasting of the muscle, occasion the sinking of the temple in emaciation and old age. Tempoeal This muscle arises from the whole of the tem- MuscLE. poral fossa (except the malar surface) and the tem- poral aponeurosis. Its fibres converge to a strong tendon which is inserted into the inner surface, the apex, and anterior border of the coronoid process. The fibres of the muscle converging from their wide origin, pass imder the zygomatic arch, and terminate upon their tendon, the outer surface of which is partially concealed by the insertion of those fibres which come from the temporal aponeurosis: remove them, and see how admirably this tendon radiates into the muscle like the ribs of a fan. Its nerves (two deep temporal) are branches of the inferior maxillary (p. 104). Between the posterior border of this muscle and the neck of the inferior maxilla, the masseteric nerve and artery pass to their destination: in front of the muscle, the buccal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve descends to the buccinator with its companion artery. Ptehtgo-siax- Divide the zygomatic arch on each side of the tLLABT Region. masseter, and turn it down, to expose the coronoid process of the jaw, the insertion of the temporal muscle, and the loose fat which surrounds it. Next, saw through the coronoid process in a direction downwards and forwards, so as to include the insertion of the muscle, and reflect it upwards without injuring the subjacent vessels and nerves. H