196 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. In the adult male the true vocal cords measure about seven lines ; in the female about five lines. In boys they are shorter; hence their peculiar voice. At puberty, the cords lengthen, and the voice breaks. The free edges of the true vocal cords are thin and sharp, and look somewhat upwards; this may be demonstrated by making a vertical transverse section through them. The glottis admits of being dilated, contracted, and even com- pletely closed by ^its appropriate muscles. When at rest, its shape is triangular, as shown in fig. 35, where the arytenoid cartilages are cut through on a level with the vocal cords. During every in- spiration, the glottis is dilated by the crico-arytenoidei postici; it then becomes spear-shaped (fig. 37). During expiration, it re- sumes its triangular shape:: and this return to a ctate of rest is effected, not by muscular agency, but by two elastic ligaments shown in fig. 3"5, which draw the arytenoid cartilages together. Thus then the glottis, like the chest, is dilated by muscular tissue; like the chest, also, it is contracted by elastic tissue. In speaking or singing, the glottis assumes what is called the vocal- ising position — that is, the opening becomes narrower and its edges nearly parallel. Ventricles OF These are the hollows between the upper and theLaetnx. lower vocal cords, and each leads to a small pouch, the sacculus laryngis. Each ascends for about half an inch as high as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, which bounds it on its outer side, while on the inner side is the upper vocal cord. It contains from sixty to seventy muciparous glands. Over its inner and upper part is a layer of muscular tissue, compressor sacculi laryngis of Hilton, which connects it with the aryteno- epiglottic fold. Intrinsic There are efleven muscles which act upon the Muscles of the larynx: five on each side and one in the middle. Larynx. ■ The five pairs are—the crico-thyroidei, the crico- arytenoidei postici, the crico-arytenoidei laterales, the thyro-ary- tenoidei, and the aryteno-epiglottidei. The single one is the arytenoideus.