497 SUPERFICIAL VESSELS OP THE GROIN. (Nominal wall, and the upper and outer aspect of the thigh; the other set lies along the saphena vein, and receives the lymphatics from the foot, the leg, and the lower part of the thigh. This explains why in cancer of the scrotum and syphilitic disease of the penis the first set becomes enlarged ; and the second, in dis- eases of the lower extremity. The lymphatic vessels which pass to and from the glands are small, and may escape observation, unless specially looked for. They all pass through the femoral ring into the abdomen, and eventually empty themselves into the receptaculum chyli. The glands mentioned in the preceding paragraph are all superficial. There are others, more deeply seated, close to the great vessels of the thigh: these are much smaller, and sometimes cannot be found. Sotehficiai. '^^^ superficial epigastric artery comes through Ahtebies of the fascia lata, half an inch below Poupart's THE Geoin. ligament, supplies the inguinal glands, and anas- tomoses with the deep epigastric artery. Its further course is described at p. 355. The superficial circumflexa ilii runs parallel to Poupart's ligament towards the crest of the ilium, and ends in the skin and subcutaneous tissue. The superficial external pudic comes through the saphenous opening, crosses over the spermatic cord, and supplies the penis and scrotum in the male, and the labium in the female. This artery is liable to be divided in the operation for femoral hernia; also in that for phimosis, since it runs along the penis to supply the prepuce. Arising directly from so large an artery as the femoral, it sometimes bleeds profusely; for it is an admitted fact that when even a small branch, coming directly from a principal artery, is divided near its origin, it will sometimes pour out as mvich blood as if an opening were punched out of the trunk as large as the area of the divided branch.* There is another pudic artery, called the deep or inferior external pudic: * Mr. Listen had occasion to tie the external iliac arterj for a supposed injury (by a pistol-bail) to the femoral. It was discovered, after the death of the patient, that K K