POSITION OP ABDOMINAL VLSCEEA. 874 The relative position and size of the stomach vary according to the amount of distension ; when much distended, the anterior surface, owing to the greater mobility of the great curve and the pyloric end of the stomach, is turned upwards, and the lower border, forwards. The following peritoneal folds are attached to the stomach : 1. the great omentum already described; 2. the gastro-hepatic or lesser omentum, which connects the lesser curve of the stomach with the transvei'se fissure of the liver ; and 3. the gastro-splenic omentum, which connects the great end of the stomach with the spleen. Duodenum ^^^^ P^^^ intestinal canal is termed intestinum duodenum, because it is about the breadth of twelve fingers. Commencing at the pyloric end of the stomach, the duodenum ascends as high as the neck of the gall- bladder ; then turning downwards it passes in front of the right kidney ; lastly, making another bend, it crosses the spine obliquely towards the left side of the second lumbar vertebra. Here the intestinum jejunum begins, and this part of the canal may be seen by raising the transverse colon. Thus the duodenum describes a kind of horse-shoe curve, of which the concavity is towards the left, and embraces the large end or head of the pancreas. For convenience of description the duodenum is divided into an ascending, a descending, and a transverse portion. The first is completely surrounded by a peritoneal covering; the second and third are only covered by peritoneum in front, and are fixed to the back of the abdomen. The relative anatomy of the duodenum will be more fully seen hereafter. Jejunum and Pursuing its course from the left side of the Ileum. second lumbar vertebra, the intestinal canal forms a number of convolutions, which are loosely connected to the spine by a broad peritoneal fold termed the mesentery. Of these con- volutions, the upper two-fifths constitute the intestinum jejunum; the lower three-fifths, the intestinum ileum. This is an arbitrary division. There is no definite limit: the character of the bowel gradually changes—that is, it becomes less vascular, has fewer folds of the lining membrane, and its coats are therefore less sub- stantial to the feel.