267 AXILLARY PLEXUS OF NERVES. The anteHor Gircumflex artery, miicli smaller than the pos- terior, runs in front of the neck of the humerus, above the tendon of the latissimus dorsi. It passes directly outwards beneath the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps, close to the bone, and terminates in the under surface of the deltoid, where it inoscu- lates with the posterior circumflex. The anterior circumflex artery sends a small branch which runs with the long tendon of the biceps up the groove of the humerus, and is called, on tliat account, the bicipital artery. It supplies the shoulder-joint and the neck of the humerus.* AxjLLAET Vein. The axillary vein is formed by the junction of the vense comites of the brachial artery, near the lower border of the subscapularis. It receives the subscapular and the other veins corresponding to the branches of the axillary artery, with the exception of the circumflex, which usually join either the subscapular or one of the venje comites. The axillary also receives the cephalic, and sometimes the basilic vein. The axillary vein in the first part of its course lies in front of the artery, and close to its sternal sidein the lower two-thirds of its course the vein lies still to the sternal side of the artery, but is separated from it by some of the nerves of the brachial plexus. AxiLLAHY OB ^his plcxus is formed by the anterior trunks of Brachial Plexus the four lower cervical and first dorsal nerves, and OF Neeves. receives also a small communicating branch from the fourth cervical nerve. The plexus is broad at the lower part of the neck, where it emerges between the anterior and middle scalene muscles; but it gradually contracts as it descends beneath the clavicle into the axilla. The arrangement of the cervical nerves in the formation of the plexus is variable, often not alike on both sides. The most fre- quent disposition is this—the fifth and sixth cervical unite to form a single cord; the eighth and the first dorsal form another cord ; * If the axillary were tied below the pectoralis minor, the collateral circulation would be established by the supra-scapular and its branches anastomosing with the subscapular, the dorsalis scapulas, and the posterior circumflex: the posterior scapular with the dorsalis scapulae and subscapular.