DISSECTION OF THE SCALP. 2 in which the arteries ramify, does not permit them to retract when divided; hence the haemorrhage which follows incised wounds of the scalp ; hence, also, the difficulty of drawing them out with the forceps. OccipiTo-FRON- "^^^^ cutaneous muscle is closely connected to the TALIS Muscle scalp. Tt consists of two fleshy portions, one on the AND Epiceanial occiput, thc othor on the forehead, connected by a Aponeurosis. ^^^^^ aponeurosis. The occipital portion of the muscle takes origin from the outer two-thirds of the upper curved line of the occipital bone, and the adjoining part of the mastoid process. The fibres ascend over the back of the head, and terminate in the epicranial aponeurosis. The frontal portion, commencing in an arched form from the epicranial aponeurosis near the coronal suture, descends over the forehead, and terminates partly in the skin of the brow, partly in the orbicularis oculi and corrugator super- cilii and in the internal angular process of the frontal bone. Some fibres run down the nose under the name of the pyramidalis nasi. The aponeurosis of the scalp is continued over the temples and side of the head, gradually changing from tendinous into con- nective tissue. This muscle enables us to move the scalp back- wards and forwards. But its chief action is as a muscle of expres- sion. It elevates the brows, and occasions the transverse wrinkles in the expression of surprise. It is supplied by the posterior auricular and temporal branches of the facial nerve. Muscles OF There are several small muscles to move the THE Ear. cartilage of the ear. In man they are thin and pale ; but in animals who possess a more delicate sense of hearing, they are much more developed, for the purpose of quickly direct- ing the cartilage of the ear towards the direction of the sound. M. ATTOLLENs To iudicato the position of this muscle the AuREM. student should draw down the upper part of the pinna of the ear, when it will be found immediately under the ridge of skin so produced. It arises from the epicranial aponeurosis, and is inserted into the cranial aspect of the upper part of the concha. M. ATTRAHENs This musclo is smaller than the preceding, AuREM. and its situation is indicated by the prominence