DISSECTION OF THE LAEYNX. 200 and inferior thyroid arteries. The laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid passes through the thyro-hyoid membrane with the corresponding nerve, and divides into branches, which supply the muscles and the mucous membrane. The laryngeal branches of the inferior thyroid ascend behind the cricoid cartilage. A constant little artery passes through the crico-thyroid mem- brane. The nerves of the larynx are the superior and i/nferior (re- current) laryngeal branches of the pneumogastric. The superior laryngeal, having passed through the thyro-hyoid membrane, divides into branches, distributed to the mucous mem- brane of the larynx. Its filaments spread out in various direc- tions ; some to the anterior and posterior surfaces of the epiglottis, and to the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, others to the interior of the larynx and the vocal cords. A constant filament descends behind the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and communicates with the inferior laryngeal. Its external laryngeal branch supplies the crico-thyroid muscle. The inferior (or recurrent) laryngeal nerve enters the larynx beneath the inferior constrictor, and ascends behind the joint between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. It supplies all the intrinsic muscles of the larynx, except the crico-thyroid. If the recurrent nerve be divided, or in any way injured, the muscles moving the glottis become paralysed, but its sensibility remains unimpaired. When the nerve is compressed by a tumour—for instance, an aneurysm of the arch of the aorta—the voice is changed to a whisper,* or even lost. Difference be- Until the approach of puberty, there is no great TWEEN THE Malb difference in the relative size of the male and AND THE Female female larynx. The larynx of the male, within Laetnx. years after this time, becomes nearly doubled in size ; that of the female grows, but to a less extent. The larynx of the adult male is in all proportions about one third larger than that of the adult female. The alse of the thyroid cartilage form a more acute angle in * ' Medical Gazette,' Dec. 1848;