63 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. pleura; on its right side are the thoracic duct, the oesophagus and the trachea; in front are the pneumogastric and phrenic nerves, the cardiac branches of the sympathetic, the left common carotid, and the left lung covered with its pleura; the left brachio-cephalic vein crosses in front of it. Behind it is the longus colli muscle, and the inferior cervical ganglion. At the level of the upper part of the chest, the left sub- clavian arches, like the right, over the apex of the lung, and has similar relations—namely, in front, it is covered by the sternal end of the clavicle, the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno- thyroid muscles, and by the internal jugular and vertebral veins. Behind the scalenus anticus, and on the surface of the first rib, the relations of the left subclavian are similar to those of the right (p. 62). The left subclavian, then, differs from the right only in the first part of its course. Now, what are these differences ? 1. The left subclavian comes direct from the arch of the aorta, and is therefore longer, deeper in the chest, and more vertical than the right, which comes from the arteria innominata. 2. The left subclavian is in close relation with the oesophagus and the thoracic duct: the right is not. 3. The left subclavian is crossed by the left brachio-cephalic vein. 4. The left subclavian has the phrenic, pneumogastric, and sympathetic nerves nearly parallel with it; on the right side, these nerves cross the artery at a nearly right angle. 5. The left subclavian is not embraced by the recurrent laryn- geal nerve, like the right subclavian. The thoracic duct bears an important relation to the left sub- clavian. It ascends from the chest to the left of the oesophagus and behind the artery ; then arching behind the internal jugular vein as high as the seventh cervical vertebra, it curves downwards and forwards to terminate in the subclavian vein at its junction with the jugular. The duct is so thin and transparent that it easily escapes observation; it is most readily found by raising the subclavian vein near its junction with the jugular, and searching