104 PINUS Pin US. 'See Pine Oil. Pin Worms. See Parasites {Nematodes, Oxyuris Vermicularis). PiOSCOpe. — A lactometer invented by Heeren for testing the purity of milk by its colour (Gr. Triwv, rich or oily). Pipera.Zine.—The chemical formula of this substance is C^Hj^No, and it is formed by the action of sodium glycol on ethylenediamine hydrochloride. It occurs in small colourless crystals which are very hydroscopic. It has been introduced for the treatment of the " uric- acid diathesis," because, theoretically, it should form with uric acid a urate of piperazine which is soluble and easily eliminated. Clinical reports as to its efficiency have been very con- tradictory, some stating that it increases the output of urea and diminishes that of uric acid, others that no beneficial effect is produced. It is prescribed in .5-grain doses three times daily, and should be given in solution, or as " effer- vescent piperazine," which contains 5 grains to each drachm. It has been recommended to prevent the formation of uric acid calculi, and to diminish irritability of the bladder when this is due to excess of uric acid in the urine. Lycetol, Lysidine, and Sidonal are substances for which similar actions are claimed. Piperidine. See Pepper. Piperine. See Pepper. Piper Nigrum. ^S^ee Dermatitis Trau- matica et Venenata {Casual Agents, Vegetable, Piper Nigrum); Pepper. Pipette.—A glass tube open at both ends, but generally narrower at one end than at the other, used for the transference of definite quantities of fluid from one place to another. PirogOfPs Operation. See Ampu- tations {At Ankle-joint, Pirogojf's). Piroplasma.—An organism belonging to the Hfemosporidia group of the Sporozoa, giving rise to the diseases known as piroplas- moses {e.g. "spotted fever" in man and "red water" in cattle). <S'ee Parasites {Protozoa, Piroplasma); DuM-DuM Fever ; Kala-azar. Pise i are Hi. 'S'ee Balneology {Italy, Chalybeate Waters). Pisiform. — Shaped like a pea {Lat. pisum, a pea), e.g. the pisiform bone of the carpus. Pitcll. >S'ee Pix. See also Physiology, Respiration {Voice, Pitch). Pithecanthropus Erectus.—The "missing link," or pithecoid (ape-like) ancestor of man. *S'ee Anthropology. Pitlochry. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Scotch). PitOt'S Tubes.—in sanitary engineer- ing these tubes are used to determine the velocity of rivers : they are tubes open at both ends, but having one end about at right angles to the rest of the tube; the water stands in the tubes at different levels according to the way in which the bent end faces or is turned away from the current, and by comparing the levels in differently placed tubes the velocity of the stream can be deduced. Pitting'. <S'ee Smallpox {Treatment, Pre- vention of Pitting). Pituita.—Phlegm, or the secretion from a mucous membrane. Pituitary Body (Hypophysis cerebri). 'S'ee also Acromegaly {Pathogenesis); Brain, Physiology of ; Brain, Tumours of {Morbid Anatomy); Physiology, Internal Secretions OR Hormones {Pituitary Body). Structure.—This body consists of two lobes of different developmental origin: (1) An anterior larger lobe, glandular in type, derived from the embryonic oral cavity ; (2) a posterior smaller lobe, belonging genetically to the brain, a continuation of the infundibulum. The anterior epithelial lobe (hypophysis proper) is light reddish-brown, darker in colour than the posterior one, and in its origin from the oral epiblast is homologous with the buccal glands. It is of great interest histologically, as it has a structure in some respects resem- bling that of the thyroid. It is made up of numerous tubes, which may be only slightly convoluted, and which are arranged in a net- work. These tubes are held together by con- nective tissue strands in which there run numerous blood-vessels of wide lumen and with delicate walls. There are also lymphatics between the tubules, which gradually unite to form a network in the capsule. The cells which line the tubes are of two kinds, the one set being larger and more granular than the other. They may contain degenerated red cells or blood pigment, and, according to Benda, fat in the form of globules. A colloid substance is frequently met with in the tubes in the blood-vessels and also in the connective tissue spaces (lymphatics). Fine nerve fibres, sym- pathetic in origin, have also been described by Berkeley. There have been numerous cases described where the colloid material has occurred in cysts in this lobe, and enlargement of the pituitary has often been noted in cases of acromegaly. The posterior lobe arises as a hollow down- growth from the forerunner of the third ventricle; but in the higher vertebrates it is very small and atrophied, consisting mainly