PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—INTRA-UTERINE DISEASES, DEATH OF FCETUS 263 the skeleton, as in the A'arious conditions to which the name " foetal rickets " has been loosely applied; that true fractures may occur in intra- uterine life long before the onset of labour has been asserted, chiefly on the strength of the observation of the so-called cases of cured fracture noted after birth. That maternal falls and blows may by dii-ect pressure or by contre- coup cause foetal fractures, which afterwards consolidate in a vicious position and with much callus, is freely stated, but exact pi'oof is not forthcoming. There is indeed reason to believe that some of these badly united foetal fractures may be due not to external violence, but rather to the effect of amniotic adhesions or pressure. This, at any rate, would account for the associa- tion of the fractures with such malformations as the absence of one of the neighbouring limb bones, an association which is far from rare. Congenital dislocations may also be due to the traumatism of labour, but truly foetal disloca- tions are in all probability rather to be regarded as the results of malformation than of injury. Dislocation of the hip would appear to be the commonest and the most important of the con- genital luxations. According to one theory of origin, it is due to amniotic pressure upon the neighbourhood of the hip ; according to another, there is an intra-uterine destruction of the tissues of the joint; another hypothesis regards it as caused by primary alterations of the nervous system producing either retraction or paralysis of the periarticular muscles; while yet another view is that it is really an arrested development of the acetabulum and surrounding parts, and not a dislocation in the true sense of the word. A great deal has been done of late years to correct this dislocation after birth, but as yet it is not settled whether the operative measures of Hoffa and Lorenz (enlargement of the acetabular cavity) or the bloodless method of Paci (reduction under chloroform and fixation by a plaster of Paris bandage) offer the better chance of success. Congenital dislocation of the knee, with or without absence of the patella, is not so common as dislocation of the hip; in it the head of the tibia may be displaced forward on the femur and give rise to hyperextension of the joint (genu recurvatum); occasionally, but rarely, lateral dislocation has been met with, and I'ecently two cases have been recorded in which there was spontaneous and recurrent lateral luxation of the knee. Congenital dis- locations of the patella, shoulder, and elbow have been noted, but they are very rare. Congenital amputations ai"e scarcely amputa- tions in the usual sense of the term. The name is applied to the cases in which one or more digits, or even a hand or foot, or part of a limb is wanting at birth ; and the explanation which has been commonly employed to account for the anomaly is that the umbilical cord or an amni- otic band has become twisted round the part and has caused first a gz'oove, then a deep furrow, and finally has entirely separated the portion of the limb lying distal to the constrict- ing band. It is possible, however, that simple pressure of a tight amnion on the limb-bud may have hindered development, and so pre- vented the formation of the part. If this latter view be correct, the amputation is rather a malformation. It may be added that the con- dition has also been ascribed to a pathological state of the skin and subcutaneous tissue of a sclerodermic kind, and the disease called ainhum has been referred to as the correspond- ing morbid state in the adult. There seems to be little doubt that amniotic bands have some- thing to do with the so-called spontaneous amputation; at any rate, amniotic adhesions and bands coexist with congenital amputations. It is a striking fact that in some of the recorded cases of amputation of digits there seems to have been an attempt at re-formation of the missing parts; for instance, at the end of the forearm there have been seen small fleshy tubercles supposed to be rudimentary fingers. In conclusion, it may be said to be doubtful whether congenital amputations belong to the pathology of the foetus or of the embryo, whether they are pathological or teratological. Intra-Uterine Death of the Fcetus, Like post-natal death of the child or adult, may be due to very many causes. Attempts have been made, not always very successfully, to group these causes into maternal, paternal, and foetal; probably in the great majority of cases the immediate cause of death is some lesion of the placenta, although it must be admitted that occasionally the placenta is apparently quite normal, even where there is good reason to believe that foetal death had occurred some time before birth. Among the maternal causes of foetal death may be enumerated endometritis and displacements of the uterus; acute febrile diseases such as pneumonia; acute infectious fevers, such as variola, cholera, typhoid fever, typhus ; heart disease, nephritis; injuries, accidents, and operative and criminal inter- ference ; and, very specially, syphilis. A high maternal temperature, if it has been gradually reached, does not necessarily prove fatal to the unborn infant; but if the rise has been rapid as well as great, intra-uterine death usually follows. Purely paternal causes are little understood, although there can be no doubt about their existence; the best known is syphilis (the mother remaining unaffected); and others which have been enumerated are albuminuria, chronic lead poisoning, and old age. There seems to be no doubt that the various foetal diseases that have been referred to above may all be the causes of foetal death ; but it would also seem that the foetus may be very seriously morbid, and yet live on in utero