515 RETINA AND OPTIC NERVE Under this head it has also been usual to class "toxic amblyopia," but there are strong reasons for the belief that the affection of the optic nerve in these cases is in reality secondary to changes in the large retinal ganglion cells at the macula {see " Retina," p. 520). Pathological Anatomy. — In papillitis of intracranial origin the evidences of inflam- mation seldom extend beyond the lamina cribrosa. The early stage of a severe papillitis is unaccompanied by affection of the connective tissue, the changes merely consisting of venous hypersemia, infiltration, oedematous and gan- glionic thickening of the axis-cylinders. Later, there is a new formation of oedematous con- nective tissue in the substance of the papilla, and filling the physiological pit, with an exudation of white cells; while behind the lamina cribrosa the medullary sheath of the nerve-fibres is swollen and undergoing granular degeneration. When the stage of subsidence with atrophy is reached, we find much con- nective tissue, partly of new formation, partly due to hypertrophy of the pre-existing frame- work ; the nerve-fibre bundles are thus reduced in size from pressure, and either degenerated or quite disintegrated and replaced by hyaline material; the walls of the arteries are thickened, with consequent contraction of their lumen, tending to partial or total obliteration of the smaller vessels. In retro-ocular neuritis the pathological changes doubtless vary greatly, according to the nature of the attack, while opportunities for examining the nerve during the acute stage seldom occur. The connective tissue of the septa has been observed to be thickened and vascular, with consequent pressure on the nerve-fibres. In later stages, when the inflam- mation subsides, the nerve-fibre meshes may either be restored, with relief of pressure and return of function, or they may be further narrowed, with subsequent permanent atrophy of the contained nerve-fibres. The nerve is most liable to be attacked in the optic canal, or just behind the eyeball, and therefore the pathological changes are most marked in one or other of these localities. In either case it is the macular bundle that is mainly involved, thus accounting for the central scotoma clinically recognised. Etiology.—The causes of optic neuritis may be divided broadly into two great classes, viz. those— (1) Of local influence, e.g. orbital inflam- mation. (2) Of general influence, e.g. renal disease and anaemia. (1) Local Causes.—Under this heading are to be included cases of optic neuritis due to affections of the cranial bones, orbit, and cranial cavity. (a) Of all the causes of optic neuritis, intra- cranial disease is much the most frequent. Any tumour within the cranium may produce papillitis, irrespective of its nature, position, or size; but it is most apt to occur when the tumour is of rapid growth, and when it is situated at or near the base of the brain or in the cerebellum. It is almost a universal rule that both nerves are affected, and generally the papillitis is gross, with considerable swelling. In very rare instances one nerve only is involved, but it is common to find a considerable difference in the degree of papillitis on the two sides. Where this difference is marked, it has been suggested that it may be of service in assisting to localise a tumour of unknown position, by indicating the side of the brain involved. Its actual value, however, is very problematical, for the fact of the one papilla being more affected than the other has no simple relation to the position of an intracranial growth, but is complicated by other anatomical considera- tions. The clinical evidence appears to show that in cases of tumour of the anterior half of the encephalon the papillitis is more marked on the same side as the growth {i.e. left greater papillitis, left-sided growth); while, when the tumour is situated more posteriorly, the nerve on the opposite side is the one more in- volved. We also find papillitis in association with meningitis (especially traumatic, syphilitic, and tubercular basilar); with cerebral abscess; and sometimes with chronic cerebritis without gross lesion. Injuries to the head may also cause swelling of the papilla, through effusion of blood within the skull or within the optic nerve-sheath. {b) Optic neuritis due to orbital disease is nearly always one-sided, and of the retro-ocular kind. The optic nerve may be attacked during an orbital cellulitis arising from local injury, or by the extension of erysipelatous or other inflammation from adjacent parts. Sometimes an orbital cellulitis seems to follow exposure to cold. Occasionally a very severe form of cell- ulitis is associated with a general septicsemia, possibly through thrombosis of the ophthalmic veins. Orbital periostitis accompanying local bone disease, or spreading from the upper jaw or nasal cavities, is liable to affect the optic nerve, probably by invading its outer sheath, where this and the periorbita are continuous at the optic foramen. To this class, doubtless, belong cases of alveolar abscess, where complaint has been made of tenderness extending up the cheek and into the orbit, with visual failure in this eye, and sometimes accompanied by slight prominence of the globe, and pain on pressure over it. Such an inflammation may readily gain the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure. Orbital tumours, especially when situated near the nerve, may cause optic neuritis; but