PEEGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—INTRA-UTERINE DISEASES, DEATH OF FffiTUS 255 outside the foetal body. It is the dominating influence in foetal life, and is absolutely essential to the unborn infant; in fact, foetal vitality, although not structural integrity, may be main- tained by the help of the placenta alone. The study of monstrosities has proved that almost all the organs may be absent, or so malformed ■as to be useless; if only the placenta be healthy and active the foetus lives on until its expidsion from the uterus deprives it of the assistance of the placenta, and so brings about its death. Just as post-natal life is ushered in by a transi- tion period, the neo-natal, during which the organism is being readjusted to its new environ- ment, so foetal life begins with a period which may be called neo-foetal, in which the circum- stances which prevailed during embryonic life are being replaced by those which characterise foetal existence; the outstanding phenomenon of this transition time is the establishment of the placental connection. Embryonic life has as its most striking feature evolution or develop- ment ; it is a period of planning, of arranging ; and in it the apparently similar cells of the early embryo are grouped together to form the various organs of the foetus. The chief residt of physiological activity on the part of the foetus, on the other hand, is rapid growth along the lines which have been already laid down. At the same time the whole organism does not pass at the same moment out of the embryonic into the foetal period ; there is a projection of the embryonic into the foetal in the physiology of ante-natal life. The pathology of the foetus is characterised by diseases as distinguished from embryonic path- ology, which has malformations and monstrosities as its peculiar possession. Further, it is prob- able that with certain inconsiderable exceptions the foetus is liable to the same diseases as is the adult or child. In a broad sense it may be said that the pathology of the foetus is co-extensive with that of the adult. The foetus enjoys a partial immunity from the attacks of parasites which produce skin diseases in extra-uterine life, and it is to some extent protected from external violence by its environment; with these excep- tions, it has the same wide pathological possi- bilities as has the adult or child. It is true that elaborate details concerning the mode of onset, symptoms, and progress of foetal maladies are not to be found in textbooks of medicine; but this is due to the fact that these diseases are during their evolution hidden from the eye in the darkness of the womb, and only come under the observation of the medical man when the expulsion of the foetus from the uterus happens to coincide with the stage of full de- velopment of the disease, and occurs before the death of the foetus has taken place. There are other reasons, also, of a more commonplace kind which help to explain how it is that more is not known about these intra-uterine maladies : these are the low estimate which has been placed upon the value of fcetal life, the absence of exact knowledge regarding intra-uterine physiology, and the invasion of the subject by such un- scientific imaginings as those connected with maternal impressions. The peculiarities of foetal diseases also mask them and prevent their identi- fication with the diseases of the adult. The classification of foetal diseases and morbid states may be founded upon their pathology, their distribution, or upon their etiology ; but no satisfactory scheme has been elaborated, nor is one possible until our knowledge of the whole subject is much enlarged. In the meantime it is convenient to divide the morbid states from which the foetus may suffer into (1) idiopathic diseases, (2) transmitted diseases, (.3) traumatic morbid states, (4) transmitted toxicological states, and (5) pathological conditions of the foetal annexa, the placenta, membranes, and cord. A special department has to do with foetal death and its pathology. The causes of the peculiarities of fa;tal diseases are to be looked for in the influence of the intra-uterine environment, in the placental factor, and in the embryonic factor. A few words must be said in explanation of these various modifying agencies. The special conditions which char- acterise intra-uterine existence are responsible for several of the peculiarities which are im- pressed upon the maladies of this period of life. Traumatism, for instance, as it is understood in post-natal life, is a rare occurrence in foetal life. So well is the unborn infant protected that it is very uncommon for it to be the subject of frac- tures, dislocations, and wounds apart from those received during the act of birth. Of course now and again such injuries are met with as the result of gross maternal traumatism, such as abdominal compression and lacei'ation ; but they are rare, and the fractures and so-called intra- uterine amputations which are recoi'ded have probably another origin (from amniotic pressure) to which reference will be made in the proper place. The modifying eff"ect of environment is seen also in the characters which some of the exanthemata take on when they occur in utero. Thus, in foetal smallpox the eruption on the skin resembles that which occurs on the mucous surfaces in later life, a fact which is probably due to the influence which the circumambient liquor amnii exerts ; there is rarely a noteworthy formation of crusts, and the resulting cicatrices are very slightly marked; and the pustules do not appear to affect the face to the same extent as they do in the smallpox of later life, probably because the face is not less protected from the light than are the other regions of the body. Possibly the intra-uterine surroundings have also brought it about that erysipelas, at any rate in its cutaneous manifestations, is very rare in the foetus. The enormous thickeninar of the epidermis in foetal ichthyosis has been