POLY- 189 Poly-.—In compound words poly- (Gr. uoAiJs, much, and iroWoi, many) means many. Polya.denia,.—Hodgkin's disease, or pseudoleuksemia. Polyadenomata.—Polypi, e.g. of the stomach. Polyadenopathy.—The disease of several lymphatic glands at the same time. Polysemia.—An increase in the volume of the blood, unaccompanied by any change in its composition ; plethora. See Leucocyth^mia (Changes in the Blood). Polysest hesia.—A rare morbid con- dition of the skin in which sensation is so dis- turbed that the point of a pin is felt as two or more points. Polyarthritis.— The affection of several joints at once, as in rheumatism, which is then called polyarticular. See Rheumatism, Rheum- atoid Arthritis [Synonyms). PolyaXOn.—A neuron with more than two axons. Polyblast.—The morula mass or mass of many cells due to the segmentation of the ovum. See F(etus and Ovum, Development of. Polyblepharon.—The presence of a supernumerary eyelid ; the membrana nictitans. Polycholia.—Excessive secretion of bile. See Jaundice {Pathology, Jaundice from Poly- cholia). Polychromatophilia. — A morbid condition of the blood in which " some of the corpuscles lose their affinity for the acid stain, and with mixtures of both acid and basic dyes are stained atypically by either or both elements " {Da Costa). Polychromia.—The increased formation of pigment, e.g. of the bile. See Jaundice {Pathology, Hoematogenous Jaundice). Polyclinic.—This term is sometimes used as if it were synonymous with policlinic; but its meaning is, strictly speaking, an institution in which all kinds of diseases are gathered together for the purposes of treatment and of providing clinical instruction; the name has also been given, although the use is hardly accurate, to an institution in which there are none but out-patients. PolyCOria.—The presence of more than one pupil in the eye. See Iris and Ciliary Bodies {Congenital Abnormalities). Polycrotic Pulse. —A pulse the sphygmogram of which shows several crests in each wave. See Physiology, Circulation {Characters of Pulse Wave). PolycyesiS.—Multiple or twin pregnancy, or, less often, frequent child-bearing. Polycystic.—Containing several cysts, e.g. an ovarian tumour with several separate cavities. Polycythaemia.—A morbid state of the blood in which the number of red blood corpuscles {erythrocytes) is increased. Polydactylism.—The malformation in which more than the usual number of digits is present. See Deformities {Hand and Fingers) ; Heredity {Inheritance of Polydactylism); Men- tal Deficiency {Diagnosis). Polydipsia.—Excessive thirst. Polygalactia.—Excessive secretion of milk. See Infant Feeding {Human Milk, Variations in Quantity). PolygaliC Acid.—A glucoside found in senega root {Polygala Senega). Polygenism.—The theory that man- kind arose from several independent pairs of ancestors. See Anthropology. Polygnathus.—A form of double mon- strosity in which the parasitic foetus is attached to the jaw of the autosite. Polygraph. See Pulse {Pulse and Respiration, Clinical Polygraph). Polygyria.—The condition of the brain in which the number of cerebral convolutions is increased. Polyhsemia. See Poly^mia. Polyhydramnios.—Excess of liquor amnii in pregnancy. See Labour, Faults in THE Passenger {Excess of liquor amnii); Preg- nancy, Pathology of {Affections of Amnion). Poly lobular.—Having many lobes, e.g. some fibroid tumours. Polymastia.—The presence of more than two mammte in the human subject. See Mammary Gland, Diseases of {Congenital Anomalies); Teratology {Malformations of Thorax). Polymelia.—The presence of more than the normal number of limbs, e.g. an accessory limb attached to the thoracic or pelvic girdle. Polymerisation.—See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Carbohydrates, Polymeris- ation of Monosaccharide). Polymorphic.—Having several forms.