556 RHEUMATISM IN CHILDREN able rheumatism in children, nodules will be found in the early stages of the attacks in from 20 to 30 per cent of cases if systematically looked for. Skin Affectio7is. — These are comparatively rare, but are relatively much more frequent with rheumatism in children than in adults. Sudamina and miliaria have no direct association with rheumatism, and are perhaps less seldom seen in that complaint than in others where there has been pyrexia. The eruptions most commonly seen are various forms of erythema, and these may appear simultaneously with other rheumatic manifestations, or independently of them. Sometimes the erythema takes the form of small papular spots, widely scattered over the face and body generally. More commonly it appears as erythema marginatum, or erythema circinatum, and is most marked in the neigh- bourhood of the joints. The various forms of erythema are most frequent when nodules are present, and, like the last, perhaps afford some test of the intensity of the rheumatic affection. Erythema nodosum, although it appears inde- pendently of rheumatism, and runs a definite pyrexial course, is certainly more common in rheumatic children than in others. It is signifi- cant, moreover, of the connection between the two complaints that endocarditis occasionally ensues in cases of erythema nodosum where no other evidence of rheumatism can be elicited. Purpura rheumatica stands in the same relation to rheumatism as erythema nodosum, in that it runs a fairly definite course, is more common in rheumatic sufferers than in others, and is occa- sionally associated with endocarditis. Apart from purpura rheumatica other forms of pur- pui-a occur in rheumatism. Thus purpura may follow on intense erythema, or it may be primary in its manifestation, of rapid development, and attended by hsematuria. Not very uncommonly a red rash, simulating the early stage of the scarlet fever exanthem, occurs in the febrile state of rheumatism, and may lead to some difticulty in diagnosis. Endocarditis. — This is the most important feature of rheumatism, and the frequency with which it occurs is one of the most striking char- acteristics of the complaint in children. Donkin, in 70 cases of rheumatism, in children aged to fourteen, found heart disease in 87 per cent, and Church found cardiac affections in 83 per cent in childi'cn under the age of ten. According to Dawson Williams, the heart is affected in three- fourths of all the cases of acute rheumatism under the age of fifteen. The younger the patient and the more definite the signs of rheu- matism, the greater the tendency for the heart to suffer. In children under the age of seven, with rheumatism of such severity as to cause any definite arthritis, it is a rare exception for the heart to escape. The presence of nodules, too, few or many, almost infallibly points to heart implication. The valve most frequently affected is the mitral, the aortic suffering much less frequently, and generally at a later stage than the mitral. Endocarditis may be associated with a slight rise of temperature remaining up after the disappearance of the outward rheu- matic symptoms. Usually, however, it gives rise to no pyrexia, and is only revealed by physical examination, a procedure that should never be neglected where rheumatism is even suspected in a child. A confident opinion, too, should not be expressed as to the freedom of the heart until a period of six months, or even a year, has elapsed after a severe attack of rheu- matism, as the evidences of endocarditis may be very insidious and long in developing. The earliest indication of endocarditis is usually a blurring or prolongation of the first sound at the apex, and an accentuation of the second sound at the base. The blurring of the first sound frequently clears up under strict rest in bed, but in other cases is replaced by a definite systolic murmur. In heart cases of some stand- ing, and usually where there has been more than one attack of rheumatism, it is not uncommon to find the systolic bruit at the apex preceded by a prsesystolic and diastolic one. It is very uncommon, however, to find the long " purring " prsesystolic murmur of adults in children under the age of puberty, this, perhaps, being due to the fact that the heart condition associated with it takes several years to develop. Pericarditis.—This is less frequent than endo- carditis, and indeed is usually accompanied by the latter. Pericarditis may, however, occur with positively no present or future evidence forthcoming of endocarditis. It usually occvirs with the more definite signs of rheumatism, such as arthritis, and subcutaneous nodules are present in a large proportion of cases. In rare instances pericarditis is found where the other evidences of rheumatism have been so slight and evanescent as to escape notice. Such cases are extremely exceptional, and the number of them has been exaggerated by some writers, who have also strained the analogy between the pericardium and a joint in attempted explana- tions of them. The pyrexia is generally greater with pericarditis than with any other phase of rheumatism in children, and the temperature frequently ranges from 104° to 106°, or even higher. Pericarditis is usually present, too, in the unusual occurrence of death ensuing directly from the rheumatic attack. In all cases of pyrexia in children, with no direct obvious cause, the suspicion of pericarditis should be entertained, as the symptoms of pericarditis may precede or obscure all other manifestations of rheumatism. Rheumatic pericarditis very seldom leads to any great effusion into the sac. Cases of apparently great distension of the pericardium with effusion are generally ones of thickened membrane with dilated and hyper-