PRURIGO AND PRURITUS 331 tlie labise may be slightly hypertemic and ex- coriated. Pruritus in this region is apt to produce depression of spirits. According to Bronson, it may be associated with voluptuous sensations. Pruritus ani.—The pathological conditions which give rise to this troublesome affection are commonly to be found within the sphincter or iu the lower third of the rectum. If the anus is dilated, minute fissures may often be seen lying between the folds of skin. Slowness of circulation, especially if combined with varix or hajmorrhoids, is a frequent cause of pruritus. In certain cases some article of diet, such as coffee, occasions the itching. Itching in this situation is intolerable, and scratching leads to eczema, with formation of fissures. Gouty and neurotic persons are more prone to it than others. In women it may appear at the meno- pause. It must not be forgotten that anal pruritus, like that of the vulva, may be a symptom of pathological changes in the uterus, such as fibroma or carcinoma, or of carcinoma of the rectum. Pruritus palmm etplantcB is very rare. Gouty persons are more prone to it than others. Pruritus linguae has been recorded in one or two instances. Treatment I. Management of the Individual. — (1) General measures referable to all cases of pruritus, whether associated with prurigo lesions or not.— Food must be of good quality, and suitable to the age of the patient. The relative proportions of fats, carbohydrates, and proteids have not yet been determined, but every case must be studied on its own merits. Ivanow recommends the introduction of a large quantity of fatty food into the dietary of prurigo children. A meal rich in proteids is apt to aggravate the sensation of pruritus. All forms of alcohol are calculated to increase cutaneous irritation, especially champagne and liqueurs, but in some cases in which nutrition is subnormal and feeble whisky and water or dry wines may be advis- able. Brown-Sequard draws attention to the action of coffee provoking or aggravating pruri- tus. If atony or dilatation of the stomach exists, the meals should be light and should be taken at shorter intervals. Air.—This should be abundant, and as pure as possible. If the humidity is too low the air may cause irritation. "Wind, to some individuals, is a direct cause of pruritus. Light increases metabolism, and so far may affect the pruritus. Its physiological action must also be borne in mind. Fermentation and catarrh in any part of the alimentary canal must be corrected. If muscular atony and dilatation of the stomach exist, massage and graduated exercises will prove beneficial. (2) Special measures to be selected according to the nature of the case.—In adults suffering from pruritus or prurigo, j^est is the great desideratum. By this is not meant idleness. It is highly desirable to enliven the patient's interest in things around him. What is needed is a true adjustment of the individual to his work, that this be so ordered that every part of it becomes effective. Nothing is more calculated to pro- duce depression and to wear a man down than ill-directed work ending in failure. Harmoni- ous work is a great therapeutic agent. Many a patient may be saved from misery, if not from insanity, by giving him a better method of work. And this principle applies to the holiday times no less than to the hours of business. Climates for priiritus.—This is one of the most valuable of measures for restoring the pruritic patient, especially if associated with exhaustion from overwork, or with functional disturbance of the nervous system. But whether we send him far or near, to sea or country, to hill or valley, must be determined by a variety of circumstances which calls for wise discrimina- tion. Brightness and pure air are good, but there must be sympathy between the individual and his surroundings. To send on a long voyage a hypochondriacal person who hates the sea is to invite him to commit suicide. If such an individual were something of an antiquarian, he would have a better chance in the British Museum studying coins or mummies. If there is much exhaustion, or feebleness of constitution, a long journey is to be avoided, nor should the climate be too vigorous. High altitudes are not favourable to hysterical natures, but are highly beneficial to the lymphatic and sanguine. On the whole, a warm, equable climate is the best—one in which the indoor temperature corresponds with that out of doors. Countries of sharp thermal contrasts, as between hot interiors and freezing exteriors, and between middays and evenings, are to be avoided by the pruritic. This is probably one of the reasons why pruritus is so prevalent in the north-western States of America, where the people are exposed to great disparity of temperature. Insomnia is one of the great difficulties with the pruritic. Brain sedatives. Dr. Payne thinks, are advisable. He recommends chloral in full doses, and antipyrin. Bulkley speaks well of gelsemium and cannabis indica. A complete hot bath, especially if bran or starch be added to it, and taken at bedtime, sometimes affords great relief. Brocq strongly advocates the daily hot douche. Electrical treatment has proved serviceable in some cases. The well- to-do may avail themselves of the electric bath, or large sponge electrodes connected with an induction coil may be moved over the surface of the trunk and limbs. II. The Management of the Skin.—When, in the course of pruritus, the nutrition of the