550 RHEUMATISM, ACUTE the greatest caution will be needed in judging of the value of such treatment, for, on the one hand, rheumatic fever naturally tends to re- covery, and, on the other, the various members of the great group of micrococcal infections are not yet clearly differentiated from one another. But it would be unwise to prophesy on this matter. In conclusion, I am indebted to my colleague. Dr. A. Paine, Bacteriologist to St. Mary's Hos- pital, London, for permission to make free use of our joint investigations upon which the details of the bacteriology and histology in this article are based, and which have enabled me to treat confidently of rheumatic fever as an infective disease. Eheumatism in Children Introductory Pathology Etiology Symptoms Pain Sweating . Arthritis . Pyrexia . Tonsillitis Pneumonia Pleurisy . Peritonitis Nervous Affections Anaemia . Subcutaneous Nodules Skin Affections Endocarditis Pericarditis, etc Chorea Diagnosis Prognosis Treatment General . Special 550 550 551 551 551 552 552 552 553 553 553 553 553 554 554 556 556 556 557 558 558 558 558 559 There is a considerable difference in the mani- festations of rheumatism as ordinarily seen in children and those occurring in the same com- plaint in adults. In both there is the same difficulty in defining what symptoms may or may not with any degree of precision be classi- fied as rheumatic, and the younger the patient the more this difficulty is enhanced. In what is known as acute rheumatism, or rheumatic fever, in adults, with the high temperature, the profuse, sour-smelling perspiration, and the swollen and acutely painful joints, we have a complaint with well-defined symptoms, admit- ting of but little doubt in their interpretation or diagnosis. Such a combination of symptoms is very rarely seen in young children, and it is only towards the age of puberty that rheumatism in them takes on the adult type. In the com- plaint, as ordinarily seen in children, the tem- perature seldom rises above 101° unless definite tonsillitis or pericarditis be present; the skin, instead of moist, is usually dry; pain s gener- ally much slighter than in adults, and if there be any recognisable arthritis, it is slight in degree, and very rarely accompanied by any redness of the affected joints. Such terms as acute and subacute have but little significance or propriety when applied to rheumatism in childhood. Distinguisliing features of rheumat- ism in children, as compared with the disease in adults, are usually much slighter degrees of arthritis, the greater tendency to the occurrence of skin eruptions and subcutaneous fibrous nodules, and the much greater frequency of cardiac complications, and this last in spite of the often seemingly trivial character of the pre- ceding or accompanying symptoms. There is also a tendency for some one single symptom to assume such prominence that the others are apt to be obscured. Stress must be laid upon the disconnected and apparently trivial outward phenomena of the complaint, as a correct diagnosis is all-important, having due regard to the frequency and gravity of the associated cardiac complications. Pathology.—This is the same, undoubtedly, as that of the complaint in adults, and rests on the same obscure basis. The theory that the disease is due to lactic acid in the blood has little or nothing to support it. The malarial origin of rheumatism, based mainly on the eff'ects of the salicylates in controlling it, can hai'dly now be advanced in the face of modern discoveries regarding malaria. For the view, once widely held, that rheumatism was dependent upon some impression on the nervous system there is still much to be said, although the arguments adduced in favour of it never advanced beyond pure hypotheses and suggestions. At present the theory that rheumatism is of bacterial origin is the one most in vogue, and various forms of micro-organisms, chiefly streptococci, have been isolated from the blood and other constituents of the body from sufferers with it, and the claim is put forward that they are the cause of the disease. The uniform relation often obtaining between the development of arthritis and crops of subcutaneous nodules and a previous sudden rise of temperature lend further support to the bacterial theory. Allow- ing all this, however, and acknowledging the excellence and importance of the recent work of Poynton and Paine, it cannot be claimed that the bacterial origin of rheumatism is con- clusively proven. Their experiments require repetition and confirmation by themselves and others before being accepted as definitely con- clusive. Many of the pathological changes produced in the endocardium and other structures of rabbits through the agency of the special diplococci, which they regard as one of the existing causes of rheumatism, have been asserted by equally competent observers to occur in the same animals by means of