PROXIMATE PEINCIPLES 325 TION {Nature of Food, Food-Stuffs yielding Energy). PrOZyg'OSiS.—The teratological type in which two foetuses are joined more or less closely by the heads into a double monster, the trunks being more or less separate; syncephaly. Prune-juice Sputum. See Expec- toration (Pneumonia); Pneumonia {Clinical Features, Expectoration). Prunes.—Prunum is the dried ripe fruit of Prunus domestica, the plum. Prunes are mild laxatives, and may be added to the diet in cases of chronic constipation; they are con- tained in the Confectio Sennae of the B.P. The Prunus Virginiana, or Wild Cherry, of the U.S. Pharmacopoeia contains hydrocyanic acid, tannic acid, a volatile oil, etc., and is used as a tonic and sedative in diseases of the stomach and in coughs. Prurig-o and Pruritus. Historical ..... . 325 General Characters . 326 Causation ..... . 327 General and Local Consequences . 328 Clinical Groups .... . 328 Etiology ..... . 329 Treatment ..... . 331 See also Dermatitis Herpetiformis {Symp- toms) ; Diabetes Mellitus {Symptoms and Com- plications, Skin) ; Eczema ; Gout {Irregular, Cutaneous System) ; Hypnotism {Uses, Skin Diseases); Hysteria {Infantile) ; Jaundice {Ob- st7-uctive. Symptoms) ; Ovaries, Diseases op the {Physiology, Ovariari Juice in Prurigo); Para- sites {Ascarides, Symptoms); Pregnancy, Af- fections OF (Cutaneous Rashes, Priiritus); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Prurigo Scroti); Sleeping Sickness {Symptoms); Uraemia {Chronic, Symptoms, Nervous); Vulva, Diseases OF {Pruritus Vulvae). Historical Note.—In the days of Willan, and long after, the word Prurigo was a collective term for different itching affections of the skin. In those primitive stages of pathological know- ledge classification could only be made by refer- ence to superficial and obvious features. Thus any disease with an eruption of papules, accom- panied by an intolerable sense of itching, was regarded as lichen, or strophulus, or as one of the prurigos. With fine insight Willan recog- nised that pruritus was the "leading circum- stance " in the pruriginous affections. These he arranged in groups which, in accordance with the fashion of the times, he called " species," taking for his distinguishing mark such obvious features as degree of severity, extent of the disease, and the period of life. His so-called species were P. mitis, P. formicans, P. senilis, P. localis; and he placed them all in the order of Papulte. The views of Willan prevailed in England, France, and Germany until Hebra dismembered the order. Hebra admitted as prurigo what Willan named P. mitis and formicans, and he maintained that the other eruptions were simply the result of itching of the skin, or pruritus. In the Hebra period classification had begun to feel the influence of the new science of pathology. The internal forms of eruptions were being revealed for the first time. Thus, in respect of the lesion of prurigo, what to Willan had been merely a papule became to Hebra an intra-epidermic cyst, which he regarded as a specific lesion, and the actual cause of the patient's suffering. His extraordinary experience of this disease, the regularity with which the symptoms grouped themselves in a striking clinical picture, con- vinced Hebra that this disease was to be re- garded as an " entity," and to be entirely separated from the other pruritic affections. The force of Hebra's opinion carried the day, at least in England and Germany. Prurigo became an independent substantive disease, and pruritus was defined as itching sine matey-ia, and itching affections provoked by epizoa were named after the parasite which was present. This is the current opinion in Great Britain at the present time, though Mr. Hutchinson has strongly protested against it. It has the merit of being easy of comprehension and is free from mystery. The third period, through which we are now passing, may be styled the philosophical, and is dominated by the French writers. To attempt to give even a sketch of the opinions and counter - opinions of Vidal, Tenneson, Tommasoli, Brocq, Besnier, Foulard, Jacquet, Neisser, and others would demand many pages. But the volume of controversial literature is evidence that the old hard and fast lines of definition of the Hebra period are breaking down. Modern pathology is half a century in advance of the days of Rokitansky. Now we see the folly of impounding diseases within fixed circles of definition, and the tendency of the scientific nosologist to-day is to look past the superficial and obvious features of diseases for deeper and deeper resemblances having relation to their origin. From this results the modern arrangement of diseases into natural series. Thus the French writers, in endeavour- ing to establish a natural prurigo series, are quite in touch with the spirit of the times. The growth of our clinical knowledge, they say, has brought to light many cases of atypical varieties of prurigo Hebrse, and cases which have very little superficial resemblance to prurigo, but which present points of deeper resemblance. They maintain that the prurigo of Hebra is not an entity, but a symptom group which stands out in bold relief amid other groups less regular in form, and of lower