PUERPERIUM, PATHOLOGY OF 376 for twelve or even twenty-four hours. In rare cases the tumour does not develop until the second or third day. In these cases the rupture of the vessel is due to what has been called a pressure necrosis. The size of the swelling varies. Generally no larger than the fist, it may be as big as a large cocoa-nut. Pain is generally a prominent symp- tom, the severity of which depends largely on the size of the tumour. By pressure against the bladder or rectum it may give rise to severe tenesmus and straining. Where the effusion of blood is diffuse and not circumscribed, or where the tumour is very large, there may be symptoms of acute hsemorrhage. The diagnosis is, as a rule, easy, because in the majority of cases the tumour is visible and can be noticed to slowly increase in size. The swelling has, however, been mistaken for the placenta, for inversion of the uterus, for prolapse of the uterus, and even for the foetal head. Prognosis.—(a) As a rule the effused blood is slowly absorbed ; {b) rupture of the tumour may take place and recovery follow ; (c) the forma- tion of an abscess, the result of septic infection, without rupture, or septic infection after rupture; {d) death from hsemorrhage, with or without previous rupture of the tumour. Treatment. — Should the tumour develop during labour and form an obstruction to de- livery, it must be incised and the blood-clot removed. If the bleeding vessel can be secured, the case can be left alone till the labour is over; but if, as is more likely, this is impossible, then forceps should be applied to bring the head down into the vagina, till by its pressure over the site of the tumour the liBemorrhage is con- trolled. After delivery another attempt may be made to ligature the bleeding vessel. If this cannot be found, then the cavity must be tightly packed with iodoform gauze and an ice-bag applied to the parts externally. There is a great risk of a septic infection, of course, from the decomposing lochia where it has been neces- sary to incise the tumour, so that the greatest care is necessary to keep the parts sweet by antiseptic douching and bathing of the external genitals. Should the tumour develop after labour, then treatment should be directed towards controlling the htemorrhage by pressure and the application of cold. Pressure can be brought to bear over the swelling by the introduction into the vagina of a large Barnes bag ; an ice-bag should also be placed over the vulva, and any straining, if possible, prevented. If by these means the hfemorrhage is stopped, as shown by the tumour ceasing to get larger, then absorption of the effused blood will, as a rule, go on slowly. To lessen the risk of abscess formation which may result from septic infection, the vagina must be frequently douched and the external part fre- quently cleansed with some antiseptic lotion. If the swelling, once formed, rapidly increases in size, indicating a severe haemorrhage, then all attempts by pressure and cold may fail to arrest the bleeding, and in order to prevent the sac rupturing it may be necessary to incise the swelling and search for the torn vessel. This will, however, be rarely necessary, and should, if possible, be avoided, because of the risks of septic infection. In some cases where the sac has not been opened, in spite of all care the effused blood will become septic and suppuration supervene. As soon as this is diagnosed a free opening must be made into the most dependent part of the swelling, all blood and pus cleared out, and the cavity, after cleansing, packed with iodoform gauze, which is changed at least once each day. IV. PUERPERAL INSANITIES 1. Observations on the Nature, Etio- logy, AND Pathology of the Insani- ties OF Pregnancy. . . .376 2. The Clinical Varieties— (a) Insanity of Pregnancy . . 378 {b) Puerperal Insanity . . .378 (c) Insanity of Lactation . . 379 3. Treatment, Management, and Prog- nosis ...... 379 (Note.—Puerperal insanity is the most dra- matic and significant variety of the mental diseases associated with child-bearing, but it can only be properly considered as one of a group to which it gives its name.) 1. Nature, Etiology, and Pathology.—In- sanity always signifies some dyscrasia—a more or less profound nutritive disturbance in general, some incompatibility in the ingredients which the blood supplies for the tissues' nourishment. Hence follows a loss of balance between waste and repair. That may be what I have called in the general article on "Insanity" (vol. iv. p. 479) a state of "surfeit," or it may approach to a more simple anaemia; but in any case the result is inanition and irritation of the nervous system and of the other tissues. But, besides the general physiological instability, a particular mental instability is also implied by insanity- some failure of balance between the various nervous activities which contribute to mental life, some discrepancy between sensibility and the capacity for effort. No form of insanity illus- trates so well as do the insanities of pregnancy these aspects of mental pathology—perversion of nutrition, reflex irritation, and excess of mental effort. There are three recognised varieties of insanity of child-bearing—the preg- nant, the puerperal, the lactational—though they are best regarded as a serial development of a protracted process. Each of the three has its characteristic dyscrasia. An account, even approximately exact, of the chemistry of these states is still quite impossible. Very great