PUERPERIUM, tions of placenta, the uterus should be thoroughly explored with the finger, and these removed. Some authorities prefer mopping out the uterus with absorbent cotton-wool to douching, but to my mind the latter is preferable, but in some cases where the putrefaction continues after douching I have seen good results follow a thorough pack- ing of the uterus with iodoform gauze. The gauze is removed after twelve hours, and, if considered advisable, a fresh packing inserted. A more thorough evacuation of the uterus can be effected by the curette, and brilliant results following this treatment have been reported by E. V. Brawn, Borel, Weis, Charrier, Pinard, Pozzi, and others ; but it is a method even more open to criticism than the use of the douche, because the puerperal uterus is difficult to curette thoroughly, and if any putrid matter be left it would infect the fresh raw surface ; but chiefly because it is liable to injure or remove the barrier of protective cell proliferation and so provide an open door for systemic invasion. Its employment has for these reasons been strongly opposed by Olshausen, Fritsch, Fehling, and others. Whether it should ever be em- ployed is therefore still an open question, but personally I am in favour of its employment, at least in cases of incomplete abortion. The most radical of all local methods is the extirpation of the diseased uterus. This has been done with a fair measure of success, and is advisable in cases where an adherent and putrid placenta cannot be safely removed in any other way; also where fever depends upon sloughing myomata; but it may also be indicated in cases in which the uterine tissues have been invaded, but the disease has not extended beyond that organ. It is, however, an exceedingly difficult problem to determine whether this is so in a given case, and to avoid unnecessary mutilation on the one hand, and hopeless interference on the other. Parametritis and Peritonitis.—In the com- mencement of pelvic cellulitis an ice-bag should be laid upon the hypogastrium, which is after- wards replaced by cold or warm compresses. The patient should be most carefully protected from chill, and should not be allowed to leave her bed for some days after all symptoms of fever have subsided. Peritonitis is treated in a similar manner, but the ice-bag can seldom be borne, and opium is generally required to relieve pain. The practice which has proved success- ful in threatened peritonitis after operations, namely, to avoid opium and force the bowels to act, is dangerous in puerperal cases, because the movement of the bowels is antagonistic to local- isation and incapsulation of the disease, upon which a favourable issue depends. Septicemia.—So long as the disease is con- fined to the genital canal the local measures already described should be adopted, but as soon as it has passed beyond and invaded the VOL. VIII PATHOLOGY OF 369 system they are absolutely useless. We are not as yet in possession of any antiseptic which can destroy the micro-organisms in the tissues ! Quinine, mercury, salicylic, carbolic, and boric acids, as well as the benzoate of soda, have all been tried without benefit, and most of them do harm by disordering the stomach and intestines, and thus inducing loss of appetite and diarrhoea. Most antipyretics are too depressing, and mask the symptoms without any compensating benefit. Some advise purgatives, but they are better avoided, and on the other hand astringents should not be too readily administered to check looseness, which in moderation is a useful elimi- native. Our chief object in treatment should therefore be to assist the organism in its contest with the microbes. This we can do by a free exhibition of alcohol, which acts beneficially in various ways : firstly, it is a powerful antiseptic and antipyretic, it strengthens the heart's action, and by checking oxidation reduces destruction of the tissues. It is best administered in the form of brandy, or whisky, port wine, and cham- pagne. The quantities should be large; twelve ounces or more of brandy in twenty-four hours is generally required. Food should be adminis- tered frequently in easily assimilable forms; eggs, milk, and beef tea are the most suitable. The employment of cool baths benefits the patient in many ways, by cooling the surface and improving the appetite; where its employ- ment is contra-indicated, a wet pack, or spong- ing with water and vinegar, may be substituted. These measures are especially beneficial when the skin is dry and hot, the patient restless or delirious, and especially in cases of septic som- nolence. The patients, as a rule, feel better after the bath, their circulation and respiration are improved, the skin becomes soft and moist, and they take food more readily. Baths are contra-indicated in peritonitis and metrophleb- itis, because the movement of the patient might, in the former case, convert a local into a general peritonitis, and in the latter because of the danger of starting emboli. Antistreptococcic serum has not fulfilled the high anticipations which attended its intro- duction, and the majority of authorities have reported unfavourably upon it. The treatment which appears to me to have met with most success in this disease was formulated by Runge in 1866, and consists in the free use of alcohol, avoidance of internal antipyretics, cool bathing, and nourishing diet. II. AFFECTIONS OF BREASTS AND NIPPLES 1. Nipples— (a) Sore 370 (b) Deep Inflammation and Abscess . 371 (c) Eczema, Syphilis, etc. . . .371 (d) Anomalies and Defects in Con- formation . . . .371 24