141 PLEURA, DISEASES OF stage of pleurisy is insignificant. In 39 con- secutive cases in the writer's practice death took place in two instances: in one from meningitis, in the other from heai't failure consequent on delirium tremens. In neither case did the fatal issue seem to be directly dependent upon disease of the pleura. Pleurisy derives its great importance almost entirely from three considerations, viz.: (1) it may lead to empyema or chronic serous effusion ; (2) it may permanently damage the lung and lead to prolonged or permanent ill-health; (3) it may be either a manifestation or a cause of tuberculosis. Our anxiety with regard to patients suffering from pleurisy is chiefly con- cerned with the possibility of a lingering and unsatisfactory convalescence and of sequential disease. It is important to bear in mind that, on the one hand, tedious and troublesome cases sometimes ultimately make an excellent re- covery, and, on the other hand, that a rapid convalescence does not exckide the possibility of a later development of tuberculosis. Sudden death in the course of acute pleurisy is not unknown, and seems to be dependent upon thrombosis of the right side of the heart. Pericarditis is a serious complication. Treatment.—The general rules applicable to the pyrexial state should be observed. In the early stage the patient's chief complaint is of pain, which is usually severe. A hypodermic injection of morphia, repeated if necessary, and followed by a few doses of Dover's powder, affords a safe and efficient means of relief. The abstraction of blood by leeching, wet cupping, or venesection is very rarely necessary. The respiratory movements being intensely painful, much relief will be obtained by tightly bandag- ing the side, or by the application of strips of plaster, after the manner recommended by F. T. Roberts. Poultices of linseed and mustard, or hot fomentations combined with laudanum, are often grateful to the patient. The bowels should be moderately opened and a febrifuge mixture administered. The diet should be liquid. The above measures usually suffice until the effusion has reached its height. In a large proportion of cases the effusion is spontaneously absorbed, and active treatment is both unnecessary and useless. The bowels should be kept open without active purgation, and a mixture containing acetate of potash, spirit of nitrous ether, and digitalis, will assist excretion by the skin and kidneys. The value of the time-honoured blister of cantharides or iodine is very doubtful. Our chief concei'n at this stage is to watch for the normal recession of the tide of effusion. As the pyrexia abates the writer is in the habit of substituting: a mixture containing 2 or 3 grains of iodide of potassium combined with 3 or 4 grains of the citrate of iron and ammonia pro dosi for the diaphoretic and diuretic mixture already men- tioned. If the effusion soon begins to show signs of subsidence a general tonic line of treat- ment should be early undertaken, bearing in mind the dangers of a lingering convalescence or of the development of tuberculosis. If the efl^usion persists at its highest level the question of more active treatment must be considered. We have to choose between such measures as active purgation, blistering, and the limitation of fluids on the one hand, and aspiration on the other. The writer has seen little success from the former methods, while the results of aspira- tion are often more satisfactory. Osier, whose opinion must carry great weight, states that he has seen large effusions disappear rajoidly under a dry diet and full doses of Epsom salts. These methods may have a trial, but if no signs of absorption appear in the course of the third week aspiration should be performed if there be no contra-indications. The question arises whether we are justified in waiting so long before resorting to this expedient. It is prob- able that we are justified for the following reasons:—In the course of the first two weeks spontaneous absorption is always probable. The dyspnoea consequent on the exudation is rarely so urgent as to demand relief at an earlier stage, but urgent dyspnoja should be regarded as an indication for aspiration at any stage of the disease. It is remarkable, however, how soon patients get accustomed to the effusion and how little they suffer from dyspnoea, so long as they make little or no exertion. Further, early aspiration seems to increase the tendency to a fresh accumulation of fluid, and it does not seem to prevent deformity of the chest. One of the worst cases of falling in of the side ever observed by the writer occurred in a child in whom, owing to somewhat urgent dyspnoea, it was thought advisable to perform aspiration about the seventh or eighth day of the disease. Large effusions, as a rule, absorb tardily, and in most of these cases aspiration will be required. Aspiration is also indicated in the rare cases in which the effusion is bilateral. As regards the proportion of cases in which aspiration will be called for no rule can be laid down. In one series in the writer's practice aspiration was performed in 13 out of 39 cases. He has never had reason to regret the perform- ance of the operation, but has sometimes re- gretted that for some reason or another the operation was postponed or omitted. The effect of aspiration varies. In exceptional cases it is followed by rapid convalescence, and no further treatment is required. The writer can recall a case of a young girl whose left pleura had been allowed to remain full of fluid for eight or ten weeks, and who rapidly convalesced after a single aspiration. Such results are, however, exceptional. Much more often the fluid re- accumulates, and the operation has to be re- peated. The effect of aspiration upon the