PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 27 If the wave has only one crest it is called a one- crested or monocrotic wave. If only the di- crotic crest is well marked it is called dicrotic. If three crests are present, tricrotic; if several crests, polycrotic. To understand the various parts of the pulse Medium Pressure. fall in pressure is indicated by the dicrotic notch. But the elasticity of the semilunar valves at once makes them again spring up, thus in- creasing the pressure in the aorta and causing the second crest, the dicrotic wave. After this the pressure in the arteries steadily diminishes till the mean is reached, to be again increased by the next ventricular systole. The form of the ptdae wave varies according to the relation- ship between the arterial pres- sure and the activity of the heart. If the heart is active and strong in relation to the arterial pressure, the main mass of the blood is expelled in the first sudden outflow, and the residual flow is absent or slight (Fig. 132, dotted line). In this case there is a sudden and marked rise of the arterial pressure, followed by a steady fall till the moment of ventricular diastole. The Medium Pressure. Low Pressure. Fia. 131.—Three sphygmographic tracings made from the radial artery of a healthy man in the course ot one hour without removing the spliygmograph. 1 was made immediately after muscular exercise; 2 was made after sitting still for half an hour; and 3, after an hour. wave it is necessary to compare it with the intra-ventricular pressure changes. This may be done by taking synchronously tracings of the intra-ventricular pressure, and of the aortic pressure (Fig. 132). Such a tracing shows that at the moment of ventricular systole the pressure in the aorta is higher than that in the left ventricle. As ventricular systole advances the intra- ventricular pressure rises and becomes higher than the aortic. At that moment the aortic valves are thrown open and a rush of blood takes place into the aorta, raising the pressure and expanding the artery, and causing the up- stroke, and crest of the pulse curve. As the ventricle empties itself the intra-ventricular pressure tends somewhat to fall, and, at the same time, a fall in the intra-aortic pressure also takes place. If all the blood does not leave the ventricle in the first gush, e.g. when the intra-aortic pressure is high as compared with the force of the heart (Fig. 132, continuous line), there is a residual outflow which arrests the diminution in the aortic pressure, or may actu- ally raise it, causing the predicrotic wave. As this residual outflow diminishes, the aortic pres- sure again falls and continues to fall until the moment of ventricular diastole. At this instant the intra-ventricular pressure suddenly becomes less than the intra-aortic, and the semilunar valves are forced downwards towards the ven- tricles, and thus the capacity of the aorta is slightly increased and the pressure falls. This rebound of the semilunar valves is marked in this case and causes a very prominent dicro- tic wave, while the predicrotic wave is absent (Fig. 131, 1). Such a condition is well seen after violent muscular exertion, and in certain fevers. In these conditions the dicrotic wave is so well marked that it can be readily felt with the finger. It is to this form of pulse that the term dicrotic is applied in medicine. Fig. 132.—Diagram to show the relationship of the pulse wave to the cardiac cycle and the effect of altering the relatinn- ship between the activity of the heart and the arterial blood pressure. i is the curve of intra-ventricular pressure, and fti is a pulse curve with an active heart and a relatively low arterial pressure. —a and ai are the same with a sluggish heart and a relatively high arterial pressure. On the other hand, if the ventricles are acting slowly and feebly in relationship to the arterial pressure, the initial outflow of blood does not take place so rapidly and completely (Fig. 132, continuous line), and the initial rise in the pulse is thus not so rapid. The residual outflow of blood is more marked and causes a well-marked