PLEURA, DISEASES OF 147 tion, softening, and excavation the symptoms will tend to be more latent. According to Douglas Powell, the symptoms of pneumothorax '* may be most closely simulated in an attack of acute pulmonary congestion supervening upon already advanced disease." Progress of the Case.—The patient may die within a few hours from shock, but this is rare. Usually he rallies, unless he is already in the last stages of exhaustion consequent on advanced pulmonary phthisis, and his condition may either show little change as the result of the new phase of his malady, or he may gradiially sink, or in exceptional cases the occurrence of pneumo- thorax may tend to retard the progress of the pre-existing tuberculosis. Recovery is possible, especially in cases consequent on empyema (see " Prognosis "). The temperature in pneumothorax shows much variation. In cases where the onset of the condition is attended by much shock, there is usually, as might be expected, a sudden fall followed by a sharp rise. The course of the temperature is most often similar to what is found in tuberculosis. Physical Signs.—These are usually definite and characteristic. {a) Inspection.—The affected side is distended and immobile. The intercostal spaces are flat- tened. The movements of the sound side are exaggerated. The impulse of the heart may be seen to be displaced towards the sound side. The shoulder on the affected side is I'aised. {h) Palpation.—Vocal fremitus is abolished. The liver and spleen may be felt to be displaced downwards. This is common in pneumothorax, while it is rare in pleural effusion. (c) Percussion.—The percussion note is hyper- resonant or tympanitic, miless the distension of the side is excessive, when the so-called " tympanitic dulness " may be present. Cardiac dulness is often obliterated. {d) Auscultation. — The breath sounds are weak or absent. In some cases they are faintly amphoric. Vocal resonance is diminished. Certain special auscultatory signs are found in pneumothorax, and are of much assistance in diagnosis. These are: (1) metaUic tinkling; (2) the bell sound {brtiit d'airain); and (3) succussion splash. (1) Metallic tinkling was compared by Laennec to the sound produced when a metallic, glass, or porcelain cup is struck by a pin. He explained it as caused by drops of fluid falling in an air-filled cavity. Its mode of production is doubtful. (2) The bell sound, or bruit d'airain, is a highly characteristic chiming sound, produced over a pneumothorax by placing one coin upon the chest wall and striking it with a similar coin. (3) Succussion splash. If the patient is suddenly shaken, while the observer hstens through the stetho- scope, a splashing sound is often clearly audible. Metallic tinkling, the bell sound, and the succussion splash simply indicate that fluid is present in a large air-containing cavity, and are not pathognomonic of pneumothorax. They may arise in connection with large phthisical cavities, or a distended stomach, or a distended colon. The physical signs of pneumothorax may be modified by: (1) the state of the lung on the affected side, e.g. by consolidation or excavation ; (2) the state of the lung on the sound side (this lung is frequently the seat of disease, and the physical signs will vary accordingly); (3) the amount of fluid present in the affected side. Diagnosis.—This is usually obvious. Atten- tion to the history and the physical signs rarely leaves much room for uncertainty. Practically, almost the only condition likely to give rise to difficulty is a large, thin-walled pulmonary vomica; but in such cases the heart is not displaced towards the sound side, the side is flattened rather than distended, the bell sound will probably be absent, and the distribution of the physical signs is diff"erent from that which prevails in pneumothorax. Prognosis.—This must have regard both to the antecedent condition and to the special dangers arising from the occurrence of pneumo- thorax. Two questions present themselves for discussion: (1) What is the prognostic signi- ficance of the occurrence of pneumothorax in a case of chronic pulmonary phthisis 1 and (2) What importance must be attached to pneumo- thorax supervening upon empyema'? As regards the former question, it may be answered that pneumothorax occurring in the course of pulmonary phthisis usually precipitates the fatal issue. Douglas Powell found the average duration of life in 39 cases of this kind to be only twenty-seven days. In the most favourable case the duration of life was twelve months. Weil found that out of 45 cases about one-half were dead within a month, while some survived for years. In rare cases the occurrence of pneumothroax seems to retard the progress of pulmonary tuberculosis. The writer has seen one striking case of a young man who decidedly improved after pneumothorax had occurred in the course of chronic phthisis. The patient regained a considerable degree of health, but was subse- quently lost sight of. As regards the second question, pneumothorax supervening upon empyema sometimes—it is difficult to say in what proportion of cases— takes a favourable course. In 2 recent cases in the writer's practice recovery took place. One of the patients was found to be in good health three years subsequent to the occurrence of pneumothorax. According to Fraentzel, pnevmiothorax occur- ring in association with gangrene of the lung is usually fatal within twenty days. Treatment.—If shock be pronounced at the