PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 76 It contains 46'6 per cent of nitrogen. It is a white substance crystallising in long prisms. It is very soluble in water and alcohol—in- soluble in ether. With nitric and oxalic acids it forms insoluble crystalline salts. It is readily decomposed into nitrogen, carbon dioxide, and water by nitrous acid and by sodium hypo- bromite in excess of soda. Urea is chiefly formed in the Liver.—That it is not produced in the kidneys is shown by the following facts:—(1) When these organs are excised, urea accumulates in the blood. (2) When ammonium carbonate is added to blood artificially circulated through the kidney of an animal just killed, no urea is formed. That it is not formed in the muscles is shown —(1) By the absence of a definite increase in urea formation during muscular activity; (2) by the fact that when blood containing ammonium carbonate is streamed through muscles, \irea is not produced. That it is formed in the liver is indicated— (1) By the fact that when an ammonium salt such as the carbonate dissolved in blood is streamed through the organ, it is changed to urea; (2) by the observation that when the liver is cut out of the circulation, the urea in the urine rapidly diminishes, and ammonia and lactic acid take its place. The exclusion of the liver from the circulation in mammals is difficult, because, when the portal vein is ligatured, the blood returning to the heart tends to accumulate in the great veins of the abdomen. But this difficulty has been overcome by Eck, who devised a method of connecting the portal vein with the inferior vena cava, and finally occluding the portal vein, and of thus allowing the blood to return from the abdomen to the heart. Sonrce of Urea.—Urea is produced from the decomposition products of proteins of the food and tissues {see p. 7). The manner in which excess of protein in the food is broken down into ammonia compounds in the intestine and sent to the liver has been already considered (p. 71). But the fact that even in starvation urea is produced seems to indicate that the initial stages of decomposition of proteins may go on elsewhere than in the intestinal wall. The fate of hsemoglobin tends to show that the whole process may be conducted in the liver cells. When hsemoglobin is set free from the corpuscles, the nitrogen of its protein part is changed to urea, while the pigment part is deprived of its iron and excreted as bilirubin. Whether the proteins of muscle and other tissues are thus directly dealt with, or whether the initial stages of decomposition go on outside the liver, is not known. But the wide dis- tribution of erepsin through the tissues may indicate that the initial splitting of the protein goes on in them. The nitrogen excreted is not all in the form of urea, but some is combined in ammonia salts, in uric acid and other purin bodies {see p. 94), and in creatinin. In the mammalian body ammonia and the purin bodies can be changed into iirea, and it is probable that the small amounts of these substances which appear in the urine have simply escaped this conversion. Certain drugs (alcohol, sulphonal, etc.) and toxins (diphtheria) markedly decrease their conversion into urea and so increase their quantity in the urine. Although urea may be prepared from creatin, there is no evidence that the process goes on in the body. Creatin yields the creatinin of the urine. It is probable that after the nitrogenous por- tion of the protein molecule is split off and got rid of, the liver has the further power of turning the non-nitrogenous part into sugar and either sending it to the tissues or storing it as glycogen. Summary of the Functions of Liver.—The functions of the liver may be briefly summarised as follows: — (1) It regulates the supply of glucose to the body (a) by manufacturing it from proteins when the supply of carbohydrates is insufficient, and (5) by storing it as glycogen when the supply of carbohydrates is in excess, and giving it off afterwards as required. (2) Along with the intestinal wall it regulates the supply of proteins to the body, by decomposing any excess, and giving off the nitrogen as urea, etc. (3) It regulates, in many animals at least, the supply of fat to the body by storing any excess. (4) It regulates the number of ery- throcytes by getting rid of waste haemoglobin and retaining the iron for further use {see p. 6). (5) From the part it plays in the entero-hepatic circulation, it protects the body against certain poisons by excreting them in the bile {see p. 67). V. General Metabolism Having considered how the food is digested and absorbed, and how it is then either stored or at once used {a) for building up and repairing the tissues, or (fi) as a source of energy, the rate at which the various chemical changes go on and the factors modifying them may be dealt with. The changes in the two great constituents of the body—proteins and fats—have to be separately studied. 1. Method of Investigating.—A. Protein Metabolism.—The amount of protein used in the body is readily calculated from the amount of nitrogen excreted, since, under normal con- ditions, unless nitrogen in some unusual com- bination is being taken, it is derived entirely from the proteins in the body. Proteins contain 16 per cent of nitrogen, and hence each grm. of nitrogen excreted is derived from 6-25 grms. of protein. The nitrogen is almost entirely excreted in the urine. Only a small amount escapes by the bowels and skin, and hence only when very