RHEUMATISM—RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS 564 greatly in different cases, and at different times in the same case. Pain is often severe and persistent, worse at night, and aggravated by movement and by changes in the weather. In other cases the patient complains chiefly of great stiffness of joints, especially after sleep or resting. Rarely true neuralgia of a severe type is present, and in those cases the bouts of pain have, in the writer's experience, tended to occur in the night after a first sleep. In Bouchard's analysis of 1000 cases neuralgia occurred in 30. Stiffness of joints may be an early sign, and frequently appears before pain is complained of. It should always suggest the possibility of rheumatoid arthritis. Evidence of trophic or vaso-motor changes of the skin is common. The skin of the hands and feet may be cold, blue, and clammy, and a com- bination of cold hands and feet, with profuse sweating of the palms and soles, is striking and characteristic. Sweating, either general or confined to some one area, such as the hands, feet, upper lip, etc., is common, and patients sometimes complain of exhausting nocturnal sweats. The skin may show areas of definite atrophy, especially near affected joints, such as "glossy skin." There may be patches of congestion and distressing sensations of burning or pricking. Spender and others have laid stress on pigmentation of the skin. It is present in a large number of cases, but whether there is any form of pigmentation of the skin peculiar to rheumatoid arthritis, either in tint or distribution, is perhaps doubtful. Pigmenta- tion occurs in connection with many chronic diseases, especially those associated with failure of nutrition, but also in apparently healthy subjects. It occurs under such varying patho- logical conditions that it can hardly be con- sidered as diagnostic, but should, perhaps, be regarded as an incident in numerous conditions of ill-health, of which rheumatoid arthritis is a notable example. Pigmentation occurs as— (a) A general darkening of the complexion, most marked usually on exposed parts. (6) As large patches of pigmentation in various parts, of irregular shape, uniform in colour, and with well-defined edges. (c) As more or less widely spread small patches with a general appearance like freck- ling, or splashes of paint, not usually most marked on exposed parts, but on the trunk and limbs, especially, sometimes, on parts exposed to pressure, such as the waist, garter areas, etc. In this form there may be decided symmetry in the arrangement of the patches. The tint varies from pale honey shades to dark brown or black, and is influenced to some extent by the natural complexion of the patient. Bannatyne mentions the occurrence of sub- cutaneous heemorrhagic effusion, and also under the nails. The nails are often dull, brittle, and show longitudinal striations. (Edema is occasionally present either in patches near joints or of dependent parts. Neuritis may occur leading to severe pain along a nerve trunk, and followed by rapid wasting of the muscles supplied by it, with loss of faradic excitability. When, in this disease, loss of faradic excitability is present, it is usually restricted to one or more muscles, and is probably the result of secondary neuritis. Garrod and others have thought psoriasis was apt to occur with more than average frequency in association with rheumatoid rheumatism. In children slight exophthalmos has been noted. Bouchard finds dilatation of the stomach in no fewer than 273 cases in 1000. The condition of the heart is a subject about which a good deal of diversity of opinion exists. Recent work has revived interest in this point, but a definite conclusion is difficult to arrive at. Garrod considered the absence of cardiac in- flammation as one of the most important diag- nostic features of rheumatoid arthritis, and said he had never traced the occurrence of peri- carditis or endocarditis in this disease. Charcot believes that both may occur, and brings post- mortem evidence to prove the existence of endocarditis. In one, at least, of the diseases called rheumatoid arthritis in children there appears to be a remarkable tendency to inflam- mation of the pericardium, and post-mortem examination in these cases shows adherent pericardium with striking frequency. In the account of a post-mortem examination on a patient aged thirty-seven recently published, it is stated that the surfaces of the pericardium were adherent. In acute cases there may be clinical evidence of endocarditis or pericarditis. Bannatyne publishes two cases {B^-it. Med, Jour. 1898) in which these complications were a marked feature. In one case observed by the writer there was pericardial effusion. In the larger number of cases no clinical signs of heart complications are pi'esent, but in some there are well-marked cardiac murmurs. These have hitherto been ascribed to the results of previous attacks of true rheumatism. In some cases, no doubt, this explanation is the correct one, in others no evidence supports it. It is possible that when the significance of acute attacks is more generally appreciated, an illness which formerly would have been ascribed to acute rheumatism will be regarded as acute rheum- atoid arthritis. It is worthy of note that in enumerating the diseases associated with "chronic articular rheumatism," in 1000 cases Bouchard records no fewer than 60 cases of aortic disease, and 91 of hypertrophy of the heart. These figures