•248 PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—AFFECTIONS OF OVUM AND DECIDUA skin are mentioned by various authors as causes of hydramnios. Inflammation of the amnion has also been regarded as a cause of excessive secretion. Tarnier and other authors hold that deficient absorption of liquor amnii, rather than its excessive production, is the true cause of the condition. The symptoms and signs of pregnancy appear in regular order, but the uterus enlarges more rapidly than visual. The festal heart sounds may be inaudible, and, in extreme cases, it may be impossible to recognise the presence of a foetus even by ballottement. When the uterus much exceeds its normal size, pressure symptoms are produced, the principal being shortness of breath, cyanosis, and abdominal distress. The more rapidly the distension occurs, the more severe are the symptoms—pain, dyspnoea, cyan- osis, and vomiting appearing in quick succes- sion in acute cases. The child is often delicate or diseased, and often presents club-foot, spina bifida, or other deformities. Labour is very often premature. (For the eff"ect of hydramnios upon labour see "Labour, Pathology of," vol. V. p. 239.) The diagnosis of hydramnios should not be difficult when once the fact of pregnancy is firmly established. Even then it is necessary to use care in distinguishing hydramnios from some other complications of pregnancy. Thus ascites with pregnancy must be recognised by percussion made with the patient lying on the side, when the flank will be resonant as a rule. Cystic tumours with pregnancy will be recog- nised on palpation as separate swellings, al- though a large ovarian or parovarian cyst with a small pregnant uterus may afford a veritable diagnostic puzzle. Distension of the bladder during pregnancy is recognisable by the use of the catheter. Twin pregnancy can usually be distinguished from hydramnios by palpation of the foetal parts. If the fact of pregnancy can- not be clearly established, the diagnosis of hydramnios may, however, be very difficult indeed. The treatment of hydramnios during labour is mentioned elsewhere {see " Labour, Pathology of," vol. v. p. 239). If serious symptoms are produced before the child is viable, there need be no hesitation as to rup- turing the membranes, as the child is so often deformed, diseased, or dead under these circum- stances that the prolongation of pregnancy should not be allowed at any risk to the mother. Oligohydramnios.—Deficiency of liquor amnii causes certain modifications in the course of labour {see " Labour, Pathology of," vol. v. p. 240), and in the very early portion of pregnancy it is said to favour the formation of adhesions between the amnion and various parts of the foetus. Inflammation of the amnion, with plastic exudation, is a more definite cause of adhesions between the amnion and the skin of the foetus which may seriously impair the development of the latter. The adhesive material may become stretched as growth goes on, so forming non- vascular bands which stretch or constrict foetal structures. Amongst deformities in whose causation inflammation of the amnion plays a part may be mentioned exomphalos, anenceph- alos, dwarfing of limbs, and intra-uterine am- putations. Leopold mentions that the cord may be involved in amniotic adhesions, which may thus cause the death of the foetus. Rupture of the amnion may occur, the chorion remaining complete. The membranes may then be separated, and the amnion may be rolled up into bands which may become entangled with the cord, and may so interfere with the foetal circulation. Cysts have been found within the substance of the amnion, but these are small in size, and have no effect upon the course of pregnancy or of labour. Diseases of Placenta and Cord Changes due to Ripening . . . 248 Post-mortem Changes (Retained Pla- centa) 249 Putrefaction ..... 249 Anomalies of the Placenta . . 249 Diseases of the Placenta . . . 250 Inflammation Hcemorrhage (Edema Pathological Infarction Degenerations . . . . .252 {a) Vesicular {hydatidiform mole) (b) Myxoma fibrosum (c) Fatty and calcareous {d) Cystic Tuberculosis Tumours Decidual Endometritis .... 253 Diseases of the Umbilical Cord . . 254 The subject of the diseases of the placenta has hitherto obtained very little systematic attention. The normal structure of the organ at different stages of development has only in recent years been clearly defined, and the systematic study of its pathology has therefore been hardly practicable. Many of the earlier accounts of pathological conditions must be rejected, because such conditions are now known to result, not from disease, but from the normal processes of maturation and senescence. A short account of tiiese normal processes will therefore rightly precede the consideration of the diseases of the placenta. Changes due to Ripening. — Certain well- defined clianges occur in all healthy placentse during the last two or three months of gesta- tion. In their nature they are uniform, but in their extent they present great divergences in different cases, divergences which cannot at