PEOSOPUS VARUS 316 PrOSOpuS Varus.—Facial obliquity or asymmetry, congenital or acquired. Prostate Gland. Anatomy and Physiology . . .316 Injuries ...... 316 Inflammation . . . . .316 (a) Acute and Chronic of the Prostate 316 (6) Around the Prostate . . .317 (c) Abscess 317 (d) Urinary Fistula . . .318 Atrophy ...... 318 Hypertrophy . . . . .318 Tumours 322 Tuberculosis . . . . . .322 Cysts 323 Calculi, etc. ...... 323 See also Bladder, Injuries and Diseases op {Calculus, Diagnosis); Cautery (Uses at White Heat); Cystoscope (Value); HvEmaturia; Hypertrophy {Pathological); Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Pyelitis, Etiology); Micturition {F^ 'equency); Pyuria {Diagnosis of Origin); Rectum, Diseases of {Rectal Symptoms in Prostatitis); Spermatorrhcea {Causes); Ur- ACHUS {Acquired Fistula, Causes). The anatomy of the prostate gland may be briefly refei'red to. It is a firm, glandular and muscular organ, weighing a little over half an ounce. About the size and shape of a horse-chestnut, it surrounds the neck of the bladder and the commencement of the urethra in the male. Placed in the pelvic cavity, its base is directed backwards towards the neck of the bladder, while its apex presents forwards. The posterior and larger surface rests upon the rectum, while the anterior and smaller surface is flattened, and is marked by a slight longitudinal groove. The prostate is divided into three lobes—two lateral lobes and one middle—which up to adult life are hardly perceptible. It is perforated by the urethra and the common seminal ducts. The prostate is enclosed in a dense fibrous capsule which is continuous with the recto-vesical fascia and with the posterior layer of the triangular ligament. The substance of the gland is of a pale reddish grey colour, very dense and friable. In structure it is a compound organ, being partly muscular and partly glandular. The muscular elements are of the involuntary kind, and are arranged so as to form an external layer within the fibrous capsule ; circular bands also surround the urethra, while fasciculse ex- tend in all directions through the glandular substance. The adenoid tissue is composed of numerous small saccules, and these opening into elongated canals terminate in excretory ducts, numbei-ing in all from twelve to twenty. These open upon the floor of the urethra, on each side of the colliculus seminalis. Physiology.—Possessed of two distinct histo- logical elements, the gland has a double function to perform. The glandular structure secretes a milky acid fluid which lubricates the urethra prior to the venereal orgasm, and also forms a portion of the discharge emitted during the sexual act. Its function is like that of the secre- tion of the vesiculfe seminales, namely, to dilute the seminal fluid, and so, by increasing its bulk, more efiiciently convey the semen within the female passages. The muscular elements not only cause the prostatic secretion to be exuded, but also simultaneously assist in expelling the semen from the seminal ducts. (a) Injuries of the prostate, except by in- struments introduced along the urethra, are not common. The gland may be punctured or lacerated by falls, or by being impaled on spikes entering from the perinseum, or by surgical wounds ; but the situation of the gland, deep in the perinccum, as a rule protects it from direct violence. After middle life, on account of the enlargement of the middle lobe, the prostate is liable to injury by the passage of a catheter. This circumstance should always be kept in view, as not infrequently the enlarged lobe is soft and friable, and the employment of force in the use of a metal catheter may readily lead to perforation of this lobe. The symptoms of such an injury do not appear immediately, but a few hours after its occurrence the patient may complain of the symptoms of retention of urine, and repeated attempts to empty the bladder may fail to give relief, a few drops of blood only escaping by the urethra. Reintro- duction of the catheter may do little good. A small quantity of urine with blood-clot alone coming away. The distension is not reduced, and if prompt measures are not taken symptoms of toxic poisoning rapidly set in, and steadily increase. The tongue becomes dry and rough, the pulse full, rapid, and compressible, respira- tion is accelerated, the temperatui'c rises, the skin becomes hot and flushed, and tlie lips livid. Treatment.—The distension of the bladder must be relieved at once, not by the passage of instruments through the injured urethra, but by supra-pubic incision, with free drainage and irrigation. In wounds from without bleed- ing may be severe, and demand active treatment. In such cases, provision having been made for the free escape of urine either through a catheter or by supra-pubic incision (but not otherwise), the perineal wound may be plugged. Or the wound may be enlarged and the vessels ligatured. Under no circumstances should sutures be used to close the wound, as such treatment is certain to promote sepsis. {b) 1. Inflammation of the Prostate {Acute and Chronic).—Acute prostatitis arises as a secondary infective process in cases of acute inflammation of the bladder or of the urethra. The most common direct causes are inordinate