OPTIC NERVE 519 RETINA AND recognisable only when an atrophic excavation exists. This latter, however, is often absent, since the space formerly occupied by the intact nerve-fibres may be filled, or more than filled, by new connective tissue. We judge of the optic atrophy chiefly, there- fore, by the colour, but caution must be exer- cised in the observation, as the disc varies considerably in this respect in different in- dividuals within physiological limits. It is particularly unsafe to diagnose pathological pallor of part of the disc unless the vision be correspondingly affected. The excavation in atrophy comes quite up to the margin of the disc all round, and is recognis- able by a slight change in the level of the vessels, and sometimes by their altered course at the edge of the disc. The atrophic excava- tion is never very deep, and slopes gradually backwards from the margin, so that the condi- tion may fitly be termed " saucering," in contra- distinction to the deep, steep-sided "cupping" found in chronic glaucoma (see article " Glau- coma "). The occurrence and depth of an atrophic excavation are determined—(a) by the size and form of a formerly existing physio- logical pit; {Jn) by the degree of loss of nerve substance ; (c) by the amount of new connective tissue formed, and by the contraction which has taken place in this latter. At the bottom of the " saucer " the lamina cribrosa may be visible over a large area, or it may be quite concealed by the newly formed tissue. The central retinal blood-vessels are in some cases much diminished in size ; in other cases only very slightly, if at all. In the form of atrophy .occurring after papillitis the disc is usually white ; its margin is visible, but often ragged-looking from irreg- ular distribution of pigment in the immedi- ately surrounding retina; the central vessels are frequently bordered by opaque white lines, and are considerably reduced in size (particu- larly the arteries); the excavation is absent or slight, and the lamina cribrosa is invisible. In what is known as simple atrophy the disc has a different appearance. It is markedly pale, but seldom so white as in the last form, while the lamina cribrosa is conspicuous over a great part of its surface; the margin is clear and very distinct, without surrounding pigmentary disturbance; the central vessels are normal in size and character or slightly reduced in size ; the atrophic excavation is marked. This con- dition follows in all cases in which the disc becomes atrophied secondarily to an affection of the nerve quite behind the eyeball—as from gross retro-ocular neuritis, wound, or pressure. More rarely this form of simple atrophy succeeds a papillitis, probably indicating that the actual atrophic process in the disc was not produced by the severity of the changes there, but occurred secondarily from an inflammation that had its greatest intensity behind the globe. In simple degeneration the disc-changes are also usually of this character; not uncommonly in tabes, however, there is less distinctness of the lamina cribrosa than above described. In the atrophy consequent on choroido- retinal changes, the disc has generally a peculiar opaque, pale, yellowish-pink, " waxy " appearance, and the retinal vessels are greatly diminished in size and sometimes in number. In the partial atrophy produced by milder forms of retro-ocular neuritis, and in those due to the action of poisons {e.g. tobacco), the pallor is often confined to the temporal half or third of the disc, and this appearance frequently persists after recoveiy of function. Prognosis.—The visual prognosis is generally unfavourable in all forms of true optic atrophy. In exceptional cases. of atrophy following papillitis, considerable improvement takes place, when the sclerosing process does not lead to excessive pressure on such nerve-fibres as have escaped destruction by the inflammation. In some examples of retro-ocular neuritis followed by an atrophied appearance of the disc, there is a wonderfully complete restoration of vision; in such cases the atrophy has mainly or en- tirely attacked the capillaries on the disc, the nerve-fibres having escaped permanent damage. In primary atrophy, almost complete blind- ness usually occurs in from one to three years; but in some instances the atrophic process stops while moderately useful vision still remains. If, along with a slight progressive contraction of visual field, there is a rapid contraction of the field for colour, the prognosis is imfavour- able. The presence of relatively good vision with advanced ophthalmoscopic signs of atrophy is a favourable sign. Treatment.—Optic nerve-fibres when once destroyed are never restored, and the function formerly perform.ed by such fibres cannot be regained. All that can be expected from treat- ment, therefore, is the pi'eservation of fibres that, though threatened, are as yet intact; this preservation may be permanent or only temporary—a mere postponement or retardation of the destructive process. In atrophy due to a neuritis the treatment is directed to the inflammatory process, and has already been considered. In other cases our first endeavour must be to discover the cause. When the atrophy is dependent on some recognised general condition or toxic influence, the treatment must be regulated accordingly. In all forms of atrophy it is most important to prevent, as far as possible, all depressing influences on mind and body. Good food, healthy exercise, and cheerful surroundings will constitute valuable aids to any other remedial measures. Subcutaneous injections of strychnine are worthy of a trial. Absolute rest of the eyes, except in inflammatory forms, is unnecessary. Moderate use is, if not