PUEKPERIUM, PATHOLOGY OF 379 of prostration arrives, several days longer before recuperation begins, and it may be weeks before the patient is quiet and sensible; but the chances are that she will recover. (c) Insanity of Lactation.—This form is com- moner than the insanity of pregnancy, though it may be that the development of urgent symptoms has been postponed for months; and it is not so common as the insanity of the puerperium. It is an insanity of physical exhaustion, the result of continued depletion. It usually occurs in patients who have been suckling for more than six months. The typical variety is a slow melancholia with delusions, and with impulses often following obsession; but any grave occasion may determine an acute develop- ment either towards stupor or towards mania. Many cases are suicidal and many are infanticidal. From apathy about things in general the patient develops in the direction of neglect of her person, of the work of the household, and of the needs of her child. Her spirit is broken, her judgment lost, her self-control vanishing, and, if the disease be not arrested, she will suffer a deep melancholia, with gross delusions of a fearful kind and very dangerous impulses. I would draw attention to the physical state of these patients. It becomes a veritable cachexia. The pallid and perhaps icteric complexion, the sunken eyes and dilated pupils, the hollow cheeks, the wasted limbs and listless move- ments, suggest a pernicious anaemia, a diabetes, or an advanced phthisis. Yet in these oases, again, recovery is the rule. It need hardly be said that departures from these types are A'ery common. The last case that came under my observation was not at all like any of the varieties described. A young mother who had had a trying pregnancy, and who had suffered a severe shock towards the end of it, just succeeded in surviving puerperal delirium, but about the tenth day after delivery suffered a sudden impulse to injure her child with scissors, and then swooned. Thereafter she was beset for weeks with an obsession of blood; saw drops of it on every white surface she looked at, and, if her attention was not briskly employed, imagined patches or streams of it in front of her. She was separated from her child, carefully watched, generously fed, had tonics and open air exercise, and made an excellent recovery. She has had a second child without any untoward development. Such an exaggeration of the imaginative or delusional elements may occur in any of these insanities. Though melancholia is commoner, a pregnant insanity may go on to a deep stupor, or it may quite early develop into a mania. The same is true of lactational insanity, and especially of cases which occur in the early weeks, and which partake of the puerperal character. On the other hand, melancholia may persist as a sequel of puerperal mischief, or the patient may con- tinue for weeks in a condition of mild mania characterised by delusions of grandeur. 3. Treatment, Management, and Prognosis. —These insanities are the most recoverable of all. The prognosis depends upon the heredity of the case, still more upon its history and especially upon the occurrence of previous attacks, most of all upon the management and treatment of the patient. But, in any case, 70 to 80 per cent of such cases recover. In the acute puerperal cases collapse and death are to be feared, while in the other varieties the fear is rather that the patient will live on into dementia. As to treatment, I would emphasise the im- portance of prophylaxis; and that comes to be a question of the management of pregnancy and of the puerperium. I would remark that very few such good opportunities occur to the practi- tioner of earning the gratitude of his patient, as when he successfully pilots a tender woman of an insane predisposition through the physi- cal and emotional distresses of child-bearing, and brings her safe into a sane motherhood. And I would submit, with deference, that both the general practitioner and the professed ob- stetrician might make more of such oppor- tunities. It would be well if the practitioner, when he has booked a case for delivery at a specified date, Avhen he has satisfied himself as to the pregnancy, when he has learned the history of previous confinements, if any, and when he has approximately gauged the diameters, it would be well if he would have minute regard to digestion and excretion in the case, to hygienic necessities, and would take reasonable precautions to preclude undue anxiety ai^d worry. Morning sickness, for example, un- less it actually threatens the patient's life, is still regarded as an incident hardly worth notice; constipation seems to be the rule; one rarely hears of the systematic dieting of preg- nant women ; and very few rules seem to be enjoined as to fresh air and exercise. Simi- larly, there is no instruction of the patient concerning the emotional and imaginative de- velopments which she may expect; she is still allowed to believe that " maternal impressions " may have a serious effect upon her offspring; she is not warned that apprehensions and silly suspicions are sure to arise in her mind, and that she is to regard them as symptoms; and but little is done in the case of illegitimate pregnancies to moderate the rigours of a too severe public opinion. Prophylactic measures are especially called for in these days of city life. It might be an exaggeration to say that when a woman conceives she enters upon an abnormal state which requires a careful treat- ment, as if she had incurred a disease of nine months' inception; but it is true that, as women now live, pregnancy is a condition which calls for a most careful regulation and exercise