426 PULSE, THE General Use of the Term " Intermission" in describing this Form of Pulse.—In the descrip- tion of this pulse irregularity hitherto, the term " intermission" has generally been used. It has already been pointed out, in the classifica- tion of pulse irregularities, that the term inter- mission should only be employed when it can be definitely proved that a whole heart-beat is I'IG. 112.—Pulse ill tubercular meningitis (child set. Z\ years). The radial artery Is small anil tightly contracted. Shows type oi irregularity and occasional appear- ance of anacrotic curves. entirely missed out. There is no absolute certainty that this true ventricular intermission occurs in man, except on very rare occasions; and the writer has never met with it in children, nor, so far as he knows, has any one else. By trusting to information derived from the use of the finger alone, the pulse in tubercular menin- gitis has been called "intermittent" in the sense that an entire heart-beat is, from time to time, omitted alto- gether. Thus Eustace Smith says, "a slow, irregular pulse, especi- ally if the intermission be complete., very greatly increases the value of the symptoms with which it may be associated. It must, however, be remembered that during convalescence from acute disease the pulse in a child often becomes slower and irregular, and may even completely intermit, especially during sleep." In another place he states that "the irregularity in rhythm is particularly well marked, because, as a rule, the intermission is comjdete. This is the more as being the correct definition of what actually occurs. The General Type of Pulse Irregularity in Tubercular Meningitis. — Sphygmographic ex- amination of the pulse, however, lends no support to such a view, for the so-called " inter- missions " are found to be due to a prolongation of the diastolic portions of some of the curves, of the same nature as char- acterise the ordinary type of youthful irregularity. Frequent instrumental ex- amination of the pulse in tuber- cular meningitis has convinced the writer that this is an accu- rate statement. There is no essential diff'erence, appreciable to the finger, between the type of irregularity found in the early stages of this disease and that which may be found in any healthy child whose pulse is slowing down from any cause. Other cerebral lesions — simple meningitis, cerebral tumour, and abscess—may sometimes very closely resemble tubercular meningitis, and in order to make a distinction it is often necessary to examine each symptom in detail. Fig. 113.—Pulse in tubercular meningitis (child a;t. 2i years). (Anacrotic pulse.) evident on account of the slowness of the pulse. Several beats strike the finger in regular suc- cession, and then suddenly one beat is entirely omitted, and there is a pause until the rhythm is again taken up by the succeeding beat." The italics are mine, and I w^ould emphasise the fact that this authority assumes the omis- sion of a whole cardiac cycle during the long pulse-pause. This suppositson has .been accepted Kw. 114.—Pulse in tubercular meningitis (child set. 2J years). Radial artery cord-like. Shows the rather characteristic type of irregularity in this disease. (Anacrotic curves.) Under such circumstances the sphygmograph may reveal certain pulse features which could not be ascertained without its aid, and which may be of considerable value in differential diagnosis. A Special Feature in the Pulse Irregularity of Tubercular Meningitis. — In a typical case of tubercular meningitis, if the sphygmograph be used every twelve or twenty- four hours throughout the early stages of the disease, one may sometimes secure a tracing where the pulse- waves exhibit one particular feature which is not to be observed in sphygmogranis obtained from most other cerebral affections (intracranial tumour ex- cepted) for which it may be mistaken. The feature referred to is somewhat difiicult to describe, but an examination of the tracings (Figs. 112-115) will clearly show the peculiarity to which it is desired to draw attention. In some of the curves the length of the systolic wave is shortened, and the second summit of this wave then rises to a higher level than usual Radial .irtery contracted.