PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 90 arteries (IL.A.)—which, as they run towards the surface, give off short side branches which terminate in the glomeruli. The efferent vein passing from these breaks up again into a series of capillaries between the convoluted tubules, and these pour their blood into the interlobular veins (IL.A.). This arrangement helps to maintain a high pressure in the capillary loops of the glomerular tuft. Phy&iology of Secretion.—The marked differ- ence in the structui-e and vascular supply of the Malpighian bodies and of the different parts of the renal tubules makes it probable that they perform different functions. Malpighian Bodies.—(a) It has been shown by injecting into the blood-vessels acid fuchsin, which is colourless in alkaline solution and red in acid solution, that the urine formed in these bodies is alkaline in reaction and that it be- comes acid as it passes down the convoluted tubules. (6) It is also known that these bodies are thrown out of action by decreasing the flow of blood through the kidneys. The rate of flow of blood depends upon the blood pressure in the renal arteries and the dilatation of the renal arterioles. It may be measured by measuring the amount of blood passing out by the renal vein, or by enclosing the kidney in an oncometer —a closed vessel connected with a recording tambour—so that changes in the volume of the kidney are recorded {see p. 20), or by a com- bination of these methods. Section of the renal nerves derived from the 11th, 12th, and 13th dorsal nerves causes a dilatation of the renal arterioles, an expansion of the kidney, and an increased flow of urine. Stimulation of these nerves has the opposite eff"ect. A fall in the general arterial pressure to about 50 mm. Hg in the dog generally causes a decreased flow of blood through the kidney and practically stops the flow of urine, although the tubules, as will be presently shown, still act. (c) In the frog the renal arteries supply the Malpighian bodies, while portal veins from the posterior end of the animal supply the convol- uted tubules. Ligature of the renal arteries stops the flow of urine, but the flow may be again induced when urea is injected. {d) Even when this flow is induced, if dex- trose or egg albumin or peptone are injected into the blood, substances which in the normal frog appear in the urine, they are not excreted. These observations seem to show that the Malpighian bodies have to do chiefly with the excretion of water and of certain abnormal con- stituents of the blood, and that their activity depends upon the rate of blood-flow through them. That it is not due to a mere physical filtration under pressure is indicated by experi- ments, in which the blood pressure in the kidneys of a dog was ivaised by injecting large quantities of blood from another dog, wichout the flow of urine being increased. That it is a selective action of the epithelium seems to be proved by the passage into the urine of such large molecules as those of egg albumin and hsemoglobin and of various pigments such as carmine. The fact that, if a cannula connected with a manometer be placed in the ureter, the secretion of urine stops when a pressure of about 50 mm. Hg is reached, is not opposed to the view that the formation of urine from the glomeruli is an active secretion. In the salivary gland, where the formation of saliva is undoubtedly due to the vital action of the cells, the same result follows obstruction of the duct. The point of practical importance is that the secretion of water takes place chiefly through the Malpighian bodies, and that this is reduced or stopped by a fall in the general arterial pressure, such as occurs in heart failure. The decreased excretion of water may lead to the development of dropsy. The Tubules.—^The alkaline urine formed in the Malpighian bodies undergoes changes as it passes along the tubules. It becomes acid and the various solids are increased, for urine con- tains a higher proportion of these than does the blood, e.g. the blood contains only about 0'03 per cent of urea, but the urine visually contains 2 per cent. The addition of solids in the tubules is further proved by the following facts :— (a) Uric acid crystals are frequently found in the cells of the convoluted tubules of the kidney of birds, (b) Heidenhain, by injecting a blue pigment—sulph-indigotate of soda—into the circulation of the rabbit, demonstrated that the cells of the convoluted tubules take it up and pass it into the urine. In the normal rabbit the whole of the kidney and the urine become blue. But, if the formation of urine in the Malpighian bodies be stopped by cutting the spinal cord in the neck so as to lower the blood pressure, then the blue pigment is found in the cells of the convoluted tubules and of the ascending limb of Henle's tubule, (c) When the Malpighian bodies of the frog have been thrown out of action by ligaturing the renal arteries, the injection of urea still causes a flow of urine and the excretion of urea by the tubules. When the portal veins which supply the tubules were ligatured on one side, it was found that less urine was formed on the ligatured than on the unligatured side. These last experiments show that the cells of the convoluted tubules are capable of secreting water as well as solids, and that they can do so is further demonstrated by the fact that, if by cutting the spinal cord in the neck the forma- tion of urine in the Malpighian bodies of a dog is stopped, the administration of caffeine and of some other substances causes an increased flow