88 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES It is formed from benzoic acid taken in the food by linking it to glycocoU—amino-acetic acid. This synthesis appears to take place in the kidneys, for it has been found that hippuric acid is not formed when these organs are excised, and that, when blood containing benzoates is circulated through them, hippuric acid is pro- duced. Its chief interest is in the fact that it is one of the first organic compounds which were demonstrated to be formed synthetically in the animal body. Normally it is present in human urine in very small quantities, but in the urine of herbivora the amoiuit is consider- able, from the presence of benzoic acid in the fodder. The acid itself is insoluble, and it occurs as the soluble sodium salt. II. Sulphur-Containing Bodies.—The sul- phur excreted in the urine is derived from the sulphur of the protein molecule, and the amount of sulphur excreted may be taken as a measure of the amount of protein decomposed. This is sometimes used as a check upon the estima- tion from the excretion of nitrogen. A. Acid Sulphur.—The greater part of the sulphur is fully oxidised to SO3. (a) Preformed Sulphates.—About nine-tenths of this is linked with bases to form ordinary sulphates. (6) Ethereal Sulphates.—The other one-tenth is in organic combination, linked to benzene compounds formed by oxidation of the indol, skatol, and phenol {see p. 69) which are pro- duced by the putrefaction of proteins in the bowel. Indol is oxidised into indoxyl thus— This when linked to sulphate of potassium forms indoxyl-sulphate of potassium or indican. O.SOgOK From skatol, which is methyl-indol, skatoxyl- sulphate of potassium is formed in the same way. These bodies are colourless, but when oxidised they yield pigments—indican yielding indigo blue, skatoxyl-sulphate of potassium yielding a rose colour. Phenol— -0—H is also linked with potassium sulphate, and ex- creted in the urine. -0- -SO.pK The amount of these ethereal sulphates depends upon the activity of putrefaction in the intestine, and is a good index of its extent. When dioxybenzene or pyrocatechin— -H -H is formed in the body, it too is linked! to sulphate of potassium and excreted. When urine containing this substance stands, it be- comes oxidised and yields a greenish brown or black pigment. B. Neutral Sulphur.—A small quantity of sulphur is sometimes excreted in a less oxidised state, in the form of neutral sulphur. The most important compound of this kind is cystin, the disulphide of amino-propionic acid—two molecules of amino-propionic acid linked by sulphur— Amino-propionic acid. I Sulphur. Sulphur. Amino-propionic acid. In some individuals, and in certain conditions of the metabolism not yet fully understood, the amount of cystin is increased, and it then tends to crystallise out of the urine in peculiar hexa- gonal plates. III. Phosphorus-Containing Bodies.—The phosphorus in the urine is derived partly from phosphates taken in the food, and partly from the nucleins of the food and tissues and from the bones. {a) Normally the phosphorus is fully oxidised to PjO., which is linked to alkalies and earths