PRESCRIBING, AND METHODS OF ADMINISTERING DRUGS 310 tions containing mucilage. Fats can be incor- porated with solutions of glycerine. Collodion is chiefly used as a vehicle for salicylic acid, and traumaticin for chrysarobin. Ichthyol, sulphur, zinc oxide, etc., may be added to the gelatine preparations. (4) Dusting Powders may be applied by dredging, or by laying a muslin bag containing them over the affected part. They act as sedatives to inflamed cutaneous surfaces, and absorb secretion. The substances most com- monly used are starch, zinc oxide, boric acid, talc, fuller's earth, kaolin, and carbonate of magnesia. Boric acid alone is irritating, and should be diluted with starch. (5) Lotions.—The basis of lotions is water, to which rectified spirit, glycerine, mucilage, and occasionally oil, may be added. The first of these, by its evaporation, imparts a cooling character to the lotion ; glycerine and mucilage are added in order to suspend powders. It should be remembered that some skins do not stand glycerine well on account of its hygroscopic properties. (6) Liniments are generally used as counter- irritants ; occasionally as sedatives. They are usually solutions or emulsions of drugs in oils, soaps, or alcohol. Oils and fats penetrate the the skin with difficulty; this is diminished by the addition of alcohol or acetic acid. Soap and yolk of egg are commonly employed as emulsifying agents. (7) Baths.—These may be simply sedative, when such substances as starch (1 to 2 lbs.), bran (2 to 5 lbs.), or gelatine are added to 25 or 30 gallons of warm water. Again, they may be medicated by the addition of alkalis, such as carbonate of soda (2 to 10 oz.), potassium sulphide (2 to 4 oz.), or tar. Mustard baths (1 oz. to 1 gallon) are very powerful stimu- lants ; the patient is held in the bath until the arms of the attendant begin to tingle. (8) Soajis.—These are not much used for the application of drugs to the skin. The intensity of their action is increased if the lather is allowed to dry on, and still more if it is thoroughly rubbed in until dry. One of the most valuable soap preparations is Hebra's soap spirit, consisting of two parts of potash soap to one part of rectified spirit, which is of great use in the treatment of seborrhoea of the scalp. In ordering soaps the chief points to be borne in mind are, that when a decided deter- gent efi^ect is desired, an alkaline soap should be selected ; when all irritation mvist be avoided, an over-fatty one. It is, however, to be I'emem- bered that much of the irritation which some soaps cause is due less to their alkalinity than to the rosin and fats used in their manufacture. IV. Injection through the Skin (1) Hypodermic Injection.—The conveniences of this mode of administering active drugs are many and obvious : the medicine acts rapidly and certainly, it does not derange the digestion, and it can be given to an unconscious or rebel- lious patient. The introduction of the tablet form of drug for hypodermic medication I'enders an error in dosage practically impossible, and minimises risk of sepsis; it also renders un- necessary the addition of any preservative to a solution for hypodermic injection. Vaccines consisting of dead bacteria, solutions of tuber- culin, etc., should be preserved in sterilised bottles closed by sterile rubber caps, through which the hypodermic needle is thrust to with- draw the requisite dose. Some hypodermic preparations—e.g. ergot, adrenaline—may be conveniently preserved in hermetically sealed glass capsules, each containing a single dose. Provided the needle is kept clean there is very little risk of suppuration, but it is safer to use a syringe and needle which have been boiled before use. In giving the injection, a fold of skin is pinched up and the needle introduced through the whole thickness of the true skin, so that the fluid can be painlessly injected into the loose subjacent cellular tissue. If the needle does not penetrate sufficiently, and the fluid is injected into the deeper layer of the epidermis, some pain will be caused. After the needle is withdi-awn the part ought to be gently rubbed to promote absorption of the fluid. It should be remembered that a hypodermic injection of ether is much more painful than one of an ordinary alkaloidal solution, and that, particu- larly when the vitality of the patient is low, a superficial slough may occur. In giving a subcutaneous injection, the neigh- bourhood of large veins and nerve trunks should be avoided. When, however, local anaesthesia over a considerable area is aimed at, drugs such as cocaine or morphia are sometimes injected near to, or actually into the sheath of, a nerve trunk. (2) Intramuscular Injections.—These are em- ployed chiefly in the administration of drugs siich as ergot, which are reputed to be liable to cause an abscess, or which, like calomel or mer- cury in oily suspension, are intended to be very slowly absorbed. Muscles of coarse fibre, such as the glutei, should be selected as the point of injection. (3) Intravenous Injection.—This mode of ad- minstration, on account of the obvious risks attending it, has never enjoyed a great vogue. Drugs introduced into veins act much more rapidly than when injected under the skin. The principal applications of intravenous injec- tion are for the introduction of saline solution to cope with sudden collapse, and of alkalis in diabetic coma and acidosis generally. Among special uses of this method, the injection of mercury in syphilis, of formalin in septicaemia, and of iodoform and other antiseptics in phthisis may be mentioned.