120 PLAGUE clear or blood-stained, may occur in the pleural cavity. The lungs are generally congested and oede- matous, especially the lower lobes. Hfemor- rhages and heemorrhagic infarcts are common, and the thoracic glands may be involved. In plague pneumonia the typical appearance is that of a confluent lobular pneumonia with scattered irregular patches of varying size from a bean to an egg, grey or red in colour, sur- rounded by dark red hsemorrhagic areas and oedema. Pleurisy may be present over the sur- face of these patches. The pneumonic patches may become necrotic. In some post-mortems all one sees may be oedema, and no patches may be made out. In others a whole lobe may be consolidated. The bronchial tubes contain frothy sero-sanguineous fluid, and their mucous membrane may be congested. Crowds of plague bacilli are found in smears from the pneumonic patches and infiltration. The bronchial glands are commonly involved. The heart is usually dilated, especially the right ventricle. The heart muscle is frequently pale, and may show parenchymatous, cloudy, or fatty degeneration. The visceral layer of the pericardium often shows hfemorrhages of various sizes, especially between the auricles and ven- tricles. Subendocardial htemorrhages may be found, and sometimes there are htemorrhages into the muscle substance itself. Peritoneum.—Subperitoneal haemorrhages are common beneath the parietal layer, and upon most of the viscera. Retroperitoneal extra- vasation of blood associated with inflamed retro- peritoneal glands may be found. Extensive extravasations of blood may be found in the omentum and mesentery, particularly in septi- csemic plague. The liver is usually large and hypersemic. It may be pale and soft, showing parenchymatous degeneration. Necrotic abscess-like foci may be found surrounded by a hsemorrhagic area. Under the capsule of the liver htemorrhages are frequent, and some authorities state that hsemorrhages on the gall-bladder are very common. Cholecystitis and pericholecystitis have been noted. The spleen is always enlarged and congested, the colour of its substance being usually very dark, and it is generally soft and is readily broken down. Hccmorrhages under its capsule are of frequent occurrence. Stomach and intestines frequently show petechias and ecchymoses in their mucous membranes. The solitary follicles and Peyer's patches are often swollen. The kidneys are often swollen and congested, the cortical substance enlarged, and the paren- chyma shows cloudy or fatty degeneration. Haemorrhages, subcapsular or in the pelvis of the kidney, may be seen, or there may be haemorrhagic infiltration round the organ. The bladder may contain bloody urine, and its mucous membrane may be ecchy- mosed. The uterus and Fallopian tubes may show haemorrhages in their mucous membranes. The uterus in cases of plague in pregnant women will usually show signs of recent abor- tion or delivery. These organs should be ex- amined in cases of sudden death in women without a satisfactory medical history. Post-mortem Appearances in Septiccemic Plague. —The changes are as just described in the internal organs of the body. Haemorrhages into these organs, and inflammation of the lymphatic glands in the thorax and abdomen, are commonly met with. From nearly every organ the bacillus pestis may be recovered. (2) Bacteriology.—The plague bacillus was discovered by Yersin in 1894 during the Hong- Kong outbreak. A bacillus discovered by Kitasato in the same epidemic has been supposed to be identical with that of Yersin, but Kitasato himself has now admitted that Yersin's bacillus is the specific organism of this disease (Report on Plague, Journal Bacteri- ologicus Japonis, December 1899). It is a short oval bacillus with round or square-cut ends, occurring singly or in dumb-bells, and occasionally in chains. It is sometimes sur- rounded by a capsule. In fresh specimens it frequently occurs in pairs as a diplo-bacillus. It is not motile, nor does it form spores. Its size ranges from 1"5 to 2 fx., and it is "7 ^ in breadth, as average measurements, but it may be longer or shorter than this, and its size is indeed very variable. Mervyn Gordon and others have succeeded in demonstrating the existence of flagellae. The bacillus stains easily with any of the ordinary aniline dyes, LofHer's methylene blue (concentrated alcoholic solution of methylene blue, 30 c.c.; potassium hydrate solution (1 in 10,000), 100 c.c), or very dilute carbol fuchsin being convenient stains. It is decolourised by Gram's method. The bacillus in fresh speci- mens generally shows a marked tendency, though not always, to a bipolar stain, the ends taking up the dye more readily than the middle. Neisser's double stain (glacial acetic acid, methy- lene blue, and Bismarck brown) also causes this bipolar arrangement to be exhibited. In actively growing cultures the polar stain is nearly always absent. The bacillus may be conveniently demon- strated from post-mortem specimens or from punctures of suspected glands by making cover- glass preparations, drying, fixing with a mixture of equal parts of ether and absolute alcohol, and staining for a few minutes with methylene blue. After washing, drying, and mounting, the specimen may be examined, and the above appearances observed. In chronic cases, and in those in which the bubo has been present a