198 POST-MORTEM METHODS is irregular, with sinuous, worm-eaten outline and thickened edges. It tends to spread round the bowel like all other chronic ulcers. The floor is irregular and caseating; the mesentery is usually thickened and shortened. Miliary tubercles can always be made out under the serous surface. In health little if any decomposition occurs in the small intestine, its functions being mainly digestive and absorbent. The faeces are fluid or semi-fluid. The LARGE INTESTINE may now be removed. Placing the great omentum on the stretch detach it from the transverse colon. Then, commencing at the caput caecum detach the colon and upper part of the rectum by cutting and tearing through their loose attachments. In removing the ascending part, be careful not to injure the kidney, or open into the duodenum to which it is closely applied. Before dividing the rectum press its contents upwards, pass a ligature round its lower part and cut below the ligature. This procedure prevents soiling of the pelvis with faeces. Wash out the large intestine, and cut it open along one of the longitudinal muscular bands. Open up the caput caecum and slit up the appendix vermiformis. The orifice of the appendix normally admits a probe; it may be constricted or obliterated. The cavity may be distended with mucus or contain foreign bodies or concretions resembling foreign bodies. Its walls may be ulcerated, gangrenous, or perforated. Its relations vary greatly under normal conditions. Catarrh, with congestion of the ridges of the mucous membrane, is commonly seen in the large intestine. In infantile diarrhoea the intestine may present no morbid appearance. Dysentery is characterised by fibrinous deposit upon or in the mucous membrane, and sloughs may form and separate. Tubercular ulceration may occur somewhat similar to, but more extensive than in the small intestine. Syphilitic ulcers are characterised by their serpiginous outline, undermined edges, and tendency to cicatrize. In foecal accumulation— for example, behind a stricture—ulcers may be foimd in the colon. Tumours of the large intestine may be non- malignant ; for example, fibrous or myxomatous polypi and adenomata. They are more often malignant, tubular cancer being the most common, and occurring usually in the caecum and at the flexures. The cancers proper are occasionally met with in the rectum, rarely elsewhere. Squamous epithelioma may occur at the anus. Mesentery.—Examine for enlarged or tuber- cular glands. Apart from secondary metastases the only tumour to be looked for here is lympho- sarcoma, commencing in the retro-peritoneal glands. Other tumours are rare. The Spleen may now be removed. Its normal average weight in the adult is 6 oz. Its average length is from 5 to 6 inches; its breadth from 3 to 4 inches, and its thickness a little over one inch. Its capsule may show adhesions or fibrous thickening. In atrophy of the spleen the capsule becomes wrinkled and loose. In chronic venous hyperaemia it is enlarged in all directions, firm and cuts crisply; its cut surface is flat, of a dark plum-colour, and shows numerous fibrous points and bands. In acute hyperaemia the organ is usually enlarged, soft, and on section the pulp bulges, is soft and readily scraped away or washed away with a gentle stream of water. This is the " diffluent" spleen. It indicates pronounced septic infection. In waxy change the Malpighian bodies may be specially affected—" sago " waxy—or the change may be " diff"use " throvighout the pulp. These two varieties are usually combined to a greater or less extent. Application of a weak solution of iodine colours the waxy parts a deep mahogany colour. R Iodine ... 1 part. Potass, iodide . . 2 parts. Water . . . 100 parts. In general tuberculosis, miliary or caseous tubercles may be met with in the spleen. The arteries of the spleen being of the nature of "end-arteries," blockage of them, for example by an embolus, results in the production of a " haemorrhagic infarct," which, if the patient survive, becomes decolorised. This is usually wedge-shaped with its base to the surface, and projecting slightly upon it. Still later, the infarct becomes surrounded by contracting scar tissue, forming a groove on the surface. Tumours are rarely met with in the spleen. Gummata—tough necrotic areas of the con- sistence and colour of wet wash-leather are occasionally met with. The spleen may be greatly enlarged in leucocythaemia, ague, and occasionally in rickets. Small accessory spleens or spleniculi are often present near the spleen, resemble it in structure, and share its morbid changes. Remove the liver, stomach, duodenum, and pancreas in one mass. By so doing the con- tinuit}' of the bile passages is conserved. Cut through the suspensory ligament of the liver, freeing the organ from the diaphragm, then drawing it downwards, isolate and ligature the oesophagus as far up as possible. It is then easy to separate the organs above mentioned from the posterior abdominal wall, care being taken not to injure the suprarenal capsules, particularly the right one, which lies close to the lower surface of the liver. Placing the organs in their natural position.