PUERPERIUM, PATHOLOGY OF 374 ducts. On the other hand, as already stated, organisms may reach the milk through the blood in women suffering from septic diseases. The cocci which may be ordinarily found in milk produce no ill effect, and they seem to be destroyed by the bactericidal action of the intestine in healthy children. Weak children do not possess this action to the same extent, and so the cocci may flourish in the intestine and produce various infantile disorders. If the milk contain more virulent organisms, as in mastitis and puerperal fever, the child may be seriously affected. Blue milk is due to the presence and develop- ment of the bacillus pyocyaneus. Red milk may be due to the presence of blood, or may result from the action of the micrococcus pro- digiosus, which sometimes grows with great rapidity in milk allowed to stand, giving it the appearance of blood. Green and yellow milks are also organismal in their origin. Bile pigment and pus may pass into the milk. In all such cases weaning is necessary. Jorisenne has recorded a case of foetid milk in the mamma, when the milk became foetid if there was any unduly long interval between the woman's nursings, becoming sweet again when she nursed regularly. The child was sick when the milk was foetid, but the mother suffered no discomfort except from the smell. Closely allied to the bacteriology of milk is "Lactation Immunity," which, though of great interest and importance, hardly falls within the scope of this article. A good account of this subject is to be found in the Science Progress for May 1894, by Buckmaster. III. FEVER IN THE PUERPERIUM, ETC. Fever in the Pubrperium due to Causes OTHER THAN SePTIC INFECTION Reflex Irritation . 374 Emotion . . 374 Constipation . 374 Exposure and Cold . 374 Zymotic Diseases . 374 Sudden Death in the Puerperium— Venous Thrombosis and Embolism . 375 Puerperal Hematoma . 375 Treatment . 376 1. Fever in the Puerperium due to Causes OTHER THAN SePTIC INFECTION A rise of temperature in the puerperal state should always be regarded as evidence of some septic infection unless there is definite proof to the contrary. Low continued fever for a week or ten days without any very severe constitu- tional disturbance, often attributed to the changes in the mammfe connected with lacta- tion, is much more often due to a subacute in- flammation in the pelvis. It is this manifesta- tion of sepsis in the puerperium which is so frequently at the time overlooked, but which is the cause of so much suffering in parous women, and accounts for a large proportion of those chronic cases which fill the cliniques of the gynecologist. Fever apart from sepsis does, however, occur. It may arise from reflex irritation. The best example of this is the fever which, especially in neurotic patients, sometimes accompanies the engorgement and distension of the breasts about the third or fourth day. It is seen also when the nipples are cracked and fissured, though here it is less easy to eliminate a septic element. The fever, unless mastitis actually sets in, quickly subsides as the breasts become softer when suckling is fairly established, and is re- lieved by a mild saline purge and gentle massage of the breasts with warm olive oil. Emotion may be a cause of fever in the puer- peral as in the non-puerperal state, and in tlie weakened condition of the puerperal patient is specially apt to be so. The sudden announce- ment of some bad news, the death of the baby, the dread of exposure in unmarried girls, worry over the non-arrival of an expected letter, are instances of recorded cases of this so-called emotional fever. Acute constipation can also undoubtedly give rise to very considerable febrile disturbance in the puerperium. The temperature may be very liigh, and from its sudden onset the cause may be overlooked. The heavy breath and furred tongue will indicate the treatment, and speedy relief will be got by the administration of two grains of calomel followed in a few hours by a dose of castor oil. A febrile reaction may follow a sudden ex- posure to cold. The fever may be ushered in by a rigor ; it at any rate follows" suddenly on the exposure, so that the history makes the case clear. It is of short duration, and is speedily relieved by the obvious treatment of a hot drink and the comfort of a hot-water bottle. Any of the acute or chronic febrile diseases may, of course, attack the pregnant woman, and may persist in the puerperal state and form a serious complication. The cause of the rise of temperature in the great majority of these cases will be obvious. In some, however, the original disease is easily overlooked, and the fever may be regarded as septic in its origin. An acute exacerbation of fever, so often observed in phthisical patients during the puerperium, may cause anxiety in this way. It must be remem- bered also that zymotic disease in its incubation stage, before the fever has developed, un- doubtedly predisposes to the onset of labour. Two cases of fever in the puerpei-ium in the writer's experience, at first regarded as septic, proved ultimately to be typhoid, and in a third case, during an epidemic, a smallpox rash which developed on the third day cleared up the diagnosis. All these patients died. It was only