REFRACTION 499 be measured with a dioptric tape, the range of accommodation can be read off in dioptres, and Landolt's plan for correcting presbyopia is to reckon two-thirds of this range available for con- tinuovis work, and add thereto the refractive aid necessary to bring this two-thirds up to the patient's work. For example, if a patient's near point lie ^ metre away, his range of accommoda- tion consists of three dioptres, of which two are available for constant work. Were his work, therefore, to lie at | metre habitually, he would not need glasses, but were it to lie at ^ metre, he woiild need lenses of 1D. Mistakes are more often made by prescribing glasses too strong than too weak, since Bonders rather over-estimated the requirements of the different periods of life. In hypermetropic subjects pres- byopia becomes manifested earlier in life, since part of the range of accommodation at its far end is ab- sorbed in neutralising the refractive error, leaving only the remainder available for near work. The cor- rections specified above for each age in emmetropia should therefore theo- retically be added to the lens which corrects, the hypermetropia, but actual measurement of the near point to confirm this should not be omitted. In myopia, presbyopia appears later in life unless glasses are worn constantly, in which case the reading pair should have an abatement of strength from the distant pair equal to the lens that would be required at the same period of life in an emme- trope. It will be seen, therefore, that while a hypermetrope of ID will re- quire a lens of about 2'250 at fifty years of age, a myope of ID will scarcely need a glass at all at that age, though at sixty years he will need about + 1-5D. Astigmatism.—Two kinds are re- cognised clinically — irregular and regular. The former is caused by such defects as corneal nebulae, corneal facets, unequal refractive indices of the sectors of the lens, and in short irregularities of any unsys- tematic kind in cornea or lens. It is incapable of correction, except partially by the employ- ment of a stenopseic slit or aperture. Regular astigmatism is of two kinds, corneal and lenticular, of which the former is by far the most important. The latter is apt to neutralise the former in measure, and it is mostly due to tilting of the lens. Corneal astigmatism exists when the part of the cornea employed for direct vision is spheroidal instead of spherical, or when it is more strongly curved in one meridian than in any other. The vertical meridian is generally that of maximum, and the horizontal that of minimum, curvature. This astigmatism, therefore, is called "according to the rule." When the reverse is the case the most strongly curved meridian is approximately horizontal, and this condition has received the name of "perverse astigmatism," since it is, with a measure of truth, supposed to give rise to asthenopia more frequently than the other kind, and to require correction more fully. The fact that a low degree of ordinary astigmatism exists physio- logically in almost every eye helps to confirm this belief. Estimation of Astigmatism. — Retinoscopy Fig. 12.—Ophthalmometer (as made by Pfister and Streit). {q.v.) is more serviceable for the detection of astigmatism than for any other error of refrac- tion. Another valuable objective method is fur- nished by the ophthalmometer. As arranged by Helmholtz, it was suitable for physiological investigations only, but the later instrument of Javal and Schiotz is more suited for taking clinical observations. It consists essentially of a telescope (Fig. 12), directed towards the patient's eye, and provided internally with a doubling apparatus which produces two images of the cornea looked at. The telescope bears two arms which support white figures on a black ground, one of which is cut out in little steps (Fig. 13). To use the instrument these