PULSE, THE 393 thus air acts as an elastic spring. The more one presses the more the fluid rises; at a certain height the meniscus of the fluid exhibits more pulsation than it does at any other height {maximal pulsation). The tube is empirically graduated in divisions that correspond to milli- metres of mercury pressure. The point of maximal pulsation gives the arterial pressure. Before each observation the tap is opened, and by gentle pressure on the bag the fluid is set at the zero mark on the scale. Thus errors due to changes in barometric pressure or tem- perature are avoided. " We now come to the explanation why the maximal pulsation gives us a reading of arterial pressure. If the mean pressure inside and outside an artery be made equal, then the wall of the vessel is able to vibrate at each pulse with the greatest freedom. The mean pressure is less than the systolic, but greater than the diastolic pressure during the heart's systole the artery is opened out to its fullest extent, while during the heart's diastole its lumen is obliterated; hence the vessel wall swings with the greatest amplitude. If the pressure exerted by the sphygmometer is less than the mean arterial pressure, the artery will not be compressed to its utmost during diastole; if, on the other hand, the pressure exerted is greater than the mean, the artery will not fully expand during systole. In either case the pulsation will not be so great as when the pressure exerted on the outside of the artery equals the mean pressure within. " By recording the arterial pressure in the dog with a mercury manometer, and at the same time taking readings with the sphygmometer, the instrument has been proved to give accurate results." Hill and Barnard have invented a larger in- strument on the same principle, which takes the pressure in the large arteries of the arm just above the elbow. A thin india-rubber bag, fixed inside a leather armlet, is strapped round the arm. The india-rubber bag is connected by a T-tube with an air-pump and a spring mano- meter (Fig. 7). The pressure in the bag is then raised imtil the needle of the manometer gives its maximal pulsation, when the mean pressure is accurately registered. There are many obvious fallacies in the results obtained with this instrument; the elastic walls of the bag and tubing, the air conduction to the recording apparatus, the muscular de- velopment of the arm, all modifying the results. In recording the blood pi'essure with either of these instruments it is sometimes difficult to determine the point at which maximal pulsation occurs. Thus the movement may be large be- tween 140 and 150 mm. on the scale, may become distinctly less at 130 mm., and may then appear as great as before at 120 mm. Which reading in these cases indicates the mean arterial pressure % But the maximal pulsation can often be readily noted, and then a definite reading is obtained. While the writer does not Fig. 7.—Hill aud Barnard's Sphygmometer. think that this reading can always be taken as representing the mean arterial pressure, still in a given case he believes it indicates the general state of the pressure. For comparative purposes this would seem to be sufficient, and the varia- tions in the readings from day to day will furnish valuable information; the method used gives reliable results when a series of observations are made on the same patient. According to Hill's observations the normal pressure in the radial artery in healthy young adults is 110 to 120 mm. of Hg, and it appears to be as constant as the body temperature. Dr. George Oliver has devoted much time to the study of the normal variations of the blood pressure under various physiological conditions, and also to certain abnormal variations pro- duced by massage, cold baths, etc. He has contributed largely to our knowledge on these subjects, but in this place we shall only refer briefly to new instrumental methods of observa- tion introduced by him. To overcome the manifest difficulties en- countered in determining the blood pressure in man. Dr. Oliver has shown very great in- genuity and originality. He has carefully considered the matter from every point of view, and has arrived at the following conclusions :— (1) That the blood pressure in man can be correctly estimated through a fluid medium, but not through a solid one. (2) That variations in the resistance of the tissues do not vitiate the correct reading of the mean arterial blood pressure. (3) That variations in the calibre of the arteries do not disturb the reading of the mean arterial pressure. (4) The adoption of the fluid principle obviates the errors due to the malposition of the solid pad and to abnormal conformation. The Hcemodyimmometer, or Blood-pressure