516 RETINA AND OPTIC NERVE more usually they simply give rise to atrophy of the nerve by their pressure. (c) In its passage through the optic canal the nerve is exposed not only to inflammation extending to it from the bony walls and the periosteum, but also from the sphenoidal sinus, only separated from the canal by a thin lamina of bone, sometimes imperfect. It is probable that many of the cases of retro-ocular neuritis traced to exposure to cold are examples of inflammation attacking the nerve in this part of its course, and sometimes in this way (through the sphenoidal sinus). In such cases both nerves are often affected, and almost simultaneously. Such cases of neuritis are not usually associated with early changes at the optic disc, but later there may be slight or moderate papillitis. The periosteum in this locality seems to be not infrequently the seat of gummatous deposit. {d) Mention must also be made of the alleged occurrence of optic neuritis in connection with disease of the bones of the ear, without the usual intervention of meningitis or of cerebral abscess. (e) The optic nerve itself may be the seat of a local manifestation of a general affection, as a syphilitic gumma or a tuberculous deposit. Again, the sheath of the nerve, possibly in any part of its course, but apparently most commonly near its junction with the sclerotic, is liable to be affected occasionally by inflammation of a gouty or rheumatic character; in many cases of this nature a marked tendency to recurrence has been observed. Papillitis is sometimes caused by an extension of inflammation from a neighbouring ocular tissue {e.g. gumma of the adjacent choroid), and it has also been observed in an early stage of sympathetic inflammation before the occurrence of irido-cyclitis. Here also we may mention the not infrequent occurrence of retro-ocular neuritis in connection with insular sclerosis. In some of these cases the optic-nerve attack is like an ordinary acute retro-ocular neuritis, this nerve being the seat of a local lesion such as occurs disseminated elsewhere in the central nervous system. Infrequently papillitis occurs in cases of myelitis, both chronic and acute. It is probable, as has been suggested by Gowers, that in such cases the optic neuritis and myelitis are inde- pendent, and both due to a common cause. (2) Causes of General Injiuence.—Occasionally we get papillitis occurring alone in renal disease, but usually in such cases there is retinitis in combination with it. In chlorosis, or in pro- gressive pernicious ancemin, we may meet with papillitis or papillo-retinitis, and also, more rarely, in leucocythcemia. In the anoemia follow- ing repeated large loss of blood, as from hjema- teraesis, for example, papillitis has been observed, but more commonly we get retro-ocular neuritis or simple atrophy in this condition. Papillitis occasionally occurs in association with menstrual disturbances, such as sudden suppression or habitual irregularities. Papillitis or retro-ocular neuritis is sometimes found in patients during or recovering from acute febrile diseases (typhus, scarlatina, measles, variola, enteric), in malarial fever, and also occasionally after influenza. In diabetes mellitus we may get loss of central vision of a similar character to what occurs in chronic poisoning by tobacco (also from lead, alcohol, and bisul- phide of carbon). In as far as the macular fibres are alone or mainly involved in these cases, the visual failure has been ascribed to retro-ocular "axial" neuritis; but doubt has recently been thrown on this view, and the affection of the axial fibres is probably to be re- garded as secondary to a poisoning of the retinal macular ganglion cells {see art. " Retina "). In some acute instances of poisoning by these agents, however, slight papillitis has been ob- served. In certain families we have an hereditary predisposition to suffer from a retro-ocular neuritis of a slowly progressive form, the nerve changes usually occurring about the age of twenty, and almost exclusively in males. In most of these instances {e.g. ansemia, renal disease, fevers, etc.) the general influence causing optic neuritis is doubtless traceable to the presence of some poisonous material present in the blood, which has either a direct effect on the ganglion cells or their processes, or an indirect effect on these structures through its action on the nutrient blood-vessels. Prognosis and Treatment.—The prognosis in all cases of optic neuritis must be a guarded one in reference to the final condition of the vision. The ophthalmoscopic appearances pre- sented are of less service to us in this respect than a knowledge of the cause of the affection. We may have a papillitis with good vision leading ultimately to complete atrophy and blindness ; while, on the other hand, we may have papillitis with the barest perception of light (as in occasional retro-ocular cases) followed by almost perfect recovery of sight. In papillitis due to intracranial disease the prognosis depends mainly upon the effect of treatment on the exciting cause. In cases of syphilitic origin, accordingly, the outlook as to vision is relatively favourable, if the patient is subjected to an antisyphilitic general treatment before the stage of atrophy of the nerve has commenced. Even after the occurrence of partial failure of vision from this cause, there is often an arrest of the failure under treatment, and sometimes an actual recovery of vision. When due to intracranial tumours (other than gumma), the papillitis may be greatly benefited by the administration of iodide of potassium; and, in rare instances, it has been observed gradually to subside without visual loss even