RHEUMATISM IN CHILDREN 557 trophied hearts, and the criteria between the two conditions, such as the position of the apex beat and dulness to the right of the sternum in the fourth rib interspace, are unrehable when applied to actual practice. Affections of the Cardiac Muscle.—In endo- carditis and pericarditis the inflammation may spread to the contiguous layers of the cardiac substance by direct extension. In the slighter degrees of inflammation of the cardiac muscle resulting in this way, there are probably no physical signs traceable to it beyond those of the endocarditis or pericarditis responsible for it. Lees and Poynton have, however, shown by post-mortem evidence that a general and intense myositis may arise in the early and acute stages of rheumatism. Sturges, too, believed that a rheumatic carditis was a fre- quent occurrence in children, in cases where only the usual signs of endocarditis or peri- carditis were present. A grave affection of the cardiac muscle should be suspected in the active stage of rheumatism when there is marked dyspnoea, a diffused and feeble apex beat, along with a frequent, feeble, and intermittent pulse, and there is no well-established valvular disease to otherwise account for such symptoms. In an exceedingly able article (Allchin's Manual of Medicine, vol. i.) Lees states that acute dilatation of the left ventricle is almost invari- able in the rheumatism of children, the more marked cases being due to a definite myositis, and the slighter degrees of dilatation to a toxic action on the cardiac muscle. This acute dila- tation, he insists, is in no sense a "complica- tion "; it is a characteristic, and the most important part of the disease. But it may be said that the evidence he brings in support of this important proposition, increase in size of the deep cardiac dulness, is hardly convincing, as the limits of the deep cardiac dulness would probably vary in any one case with the powers of percussion of different observers, and even with those of the same observer from time to time. The changes in the cardiac muscle, found along with hypertrophy and dilatation, in cases of long-established valvular disease, have a direct origin in the valvular defects, and by no means imply any pre-existing inflammatory state of the muscle. Chorea.—-That there is a close association of chorea with rheumatism is not to be doubted. The exact relationship between the two com- plaints is still a vexed question, but the more it is looked into the more intimate the associa- tion is found to be. With a large number, indeed, of competent observers, chorea is regarded in every instance as simply and solely a mani- festation of rheumatism. Not infrequently choreic symptoms, of slight or greater intensity, are found in children suffering from rheumatism. Very often, too, chorea will attack children shortly after the subsidence of a definite rheu- matic attack. Again, children who have suflered from chorea, with no present or past evidences of rheumatism, are much more prone to future rheumatic attacks than others. It is not uncommon, moreover, to find endocarditis in choreic children with no history of joint pains or other rheumatic symptoms; and, but much more rarely, cases occur where chorea is associ- ated with endocarditis and rheumatic nodules where other evidence of rheumatism is entirely wanting. These facts are incontrovertible and fully admitted, but they are totally insuflScient to support the dogma that in every instance chorea is a direct manifestation of rheumatism. In the great majority of cases of chorea no evidence of rheumatism, either in the past or present, is obtainable. It is very common, too, for children to have repeated and frequent attacks of chorea, and in whom no endocard- itis or other symptoms of rheumatism develop. The proportion of cases of chorea associated with rheumatism has been variously stated by different authorities—the variance in the figures being doubtlessly influenced by the fact of the observer being a believer or disbeliever in the pan-rheumatic origin of chorea. Thus Dr. Still, in 226 cases of chorea, found evidence of rheu- matism in at least 55-7 per cent. Other good observers, with a full knowledge of how vague and fleeting the symptoms of rheumatism in the child may be, feel justified in placing the percentage of cases of chorea associated with rheumatism at as low a figure as 30 per cent. These last figures will have to be largely dis- counted, of course, by the fact that possibly many of the cases of chorea contracted rheumat- ism after passing out of observation, and that many of them, too, were possibly seen before the age at which some of the later evidences of endocarditis, such as mitral stenosis, had had time to develop. After making very liberal allowance for these considerations, however, it probably remains true that more than half the cases of chorea pass through life without ex- hibiting any of the more definite signs of rheumatism. If, then, chorea is merely a phase of rheumatism, in the majority of cases it stands alone in this last respect. In a disease like chorea, where the beginning and termina- tion are often so ill-defined, and where there is so wide a variance in the severity and duration of the complaint, it is difficult to attempt any discrimination between one group of cases and another. On the whole, perhaps it may be found that in the cases associated with definite rheumatism the onset is better marked, the acme as regards extent and violence of the movements sooner reached, and the duration shorter than in the cases where there is no evidence of rheumatism obtainable. The ex- planation of the frequent association of the two complaints is perhaps to be found in the neurotic predisposition, which even the most