PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 78 If the amount of food be further increased, a small proportion of the proteins and a larger proportion of the fats are retained, and weight is gained. As already indicated, the power of storing proteins is generally small (see p. 74). Protein Diet.—Proteins contain all the chemi- cal elements required for the building and repair of the tissues, and from the complexity of their molecules they also supply latent energy. It is therefore theoretically possible for an animal to sustain life on proteins, and certain animals can be fed exclusively upon them. Thus Pfliiger kept a dog for many months upon a purely protein diet without injury to its health. But to supply the necessary energy in m m m m m 8 FlO. 168.—To show the effects on the metabolism of proteins and fats of feeding a fasting animal. Tlie continuous hori- zontal lines indicate the amount of material metabolised, the broken horizontal lines the amount taken. The differ- ences between the levels of these indicate the amount of protein and of fats of the animal body whicli are metabolised. The first column represents the condition in fasting—the succeeding columns the intake and output eacli day when food is given. proteins alone requires the consumption of ex- cessively large quantities. For a man to get the energy equivalent to 3000 calories—a very moderate expenditure per diem—he would have to eat more than seven times the usual amount of proteins. Further, it has been shown that, when large quantities are taken, the greater portion is broken up in the intestinal wall and formed into urea by the liver and excreted by the kidney, and thus excessive work is thrown upon these excretory organs. While these organs usually form and excrete about 33 grms. of urea per diem, on such a diet they would have to deal with no less than 231 grms. It is therefore not advantageous to adopt a too purely protein diet. The great use of pro- teins is as muscle-builders. When the muscles are in a state of constant activity they have a certain power of laying on protein as they grow. Hence the value of proteins in muscular training. Gelatin, although undergoing digestion and absorption like the proteins, is not available as a muscle-builder. Its sole use is as an energy yielder, and in this respect it has a value equal to the proteins. Carbohydrate Diet. — Carbohydrates are of equal value with proteins as a source of energy, but they contain no nitrogen, and they are not available alone for building up and repairing the protoplasm of muscles and other tissues. Carbohydrates alone will not support life, but when added to proteins they enable the animal to do with smaller quantities of the latter. They are thus sonaetimes tevmedi protein sparers. Their use in diminishing the consumption of proteins is, however, strictly limited. Fat Diet.—Fats, like carbohydrates, will not support life, because they cannot be used for building up protoplasm; but, like carbohydrates, they are a source of energy, and they have more than twice the energy value of proteins or of carbohydrates (p. 53). They are thus protein sparers. But experiment has shown that, in spite of their higher energy value, they have not the same power as carbohydrates of sparing proteins, since their digestion and absorption is more difficult. Thus while theoretically 1 grm. of carbohydrate yields 4"1 calories of energy, 1 grm. taken in the food, since it is not all absorbed and used, yields 4"03 calories of energy. But fat, which theoretically yields 9"3 on account of its less availability, yields in the body only 8'93 calories. That is, while carbohydrates yield 97 per cent of their energy, as determined by the calorimeter, fats yield only 92 per cent of their energy. When once absorbed, fats are iso-dynamic with the equivalent amount of carbohydrates. This has been determined by replacing the carbohydrates in a diet with the equivalent amount of fat. A knowledge of the part played by proteins, carbohydrates, and fats in the animal body is the groundwork of the study of dietetics. VI. Dietetics The object of dietetics is to fit the supply of matter and energy in the food to the require- ment of the body under different conditions. The great essentials of a diet capable of maintaining health are :— 1st. That it should be capable of digestion, absorption, and assimilation, i.e. that it should be available. 2nd. That it should supply the energy required. 3rd. That it should contain sufficient proteins to make good the waste of these substances. I. The Availability of the Food.—While proteins, carbohydrates, and fats in the ali- mentary canal undergo the changes already described, they are frequently, when taken in the food, in an unfavourable state for the action of digestive juices. Thus, while the proteins of