PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 38 vessels is not prevented. In the recumbent position, when the reservoir is on the same level as the pump, the work is much easier. Fainting is a sudden loss of consciousness pro- duced by failure in the supply of blood to the brain. It is accompanied by loss of control over the muscles, so that the individual falls to the ground. It may be induced by any sudden lowering of the arterial blood pressvire, whether due to decreased inflow of blood or to decreased peripheral resistance. Decreased inflow may be caused by—(a) Car- diac inhibition brought about reflexly (1) by strong stimulation of ingoing nerves, and more especially of the nerves of the abdomen; (2) by strong stimulation of the upper brain neurons, accompanied by changes in the consciousness of the nature of emotions;—(b) Failure of the heart to pump blood from veins to arteries against the force of gravity, as when the erect position is suddenly assumed by people with weak hearts. Decreased resistance to outflow through sudden dilatation of arterioles may result from changes in the upper brain neurons, accom- panied by emotional states and also in digestive disturbances. However induced, the angemic state of the brain leads to a stimulation of the cardiac in- hibitory centre, and the condition is thus accen- tuated. The cerebral ansemia is accompanied by pallor of the face. The treatment consists in depressing the head to allow the force of gravity to act in filling the cerebral vessels and in giving diffusible stimu- lants to increase the action of the heart. The Time taken by the Circulation This was first determined by injecting ferro- cyanide of potassium into the proximal end of a cut vein, and finding how long it took to appear in the blood flowing from the distal end. From observation in the horse, dog, and rabbit, it ap- pears that the time corresponds to about twenty- seven beats of the heart, so that in man it should amount to about twenty-three seconds. Stewai't has investigated the rate of flow through different organs by injecting salt solu- tion into the artery, and by detecting its appear- ance in the vein by the change in the electric conductivity of the contents of the vessel. Section VI. — Supply of Nourishing Mate- BiAL to the Blood and Lymph, and Elimi- nation of Waste Matter from them. I. Respiration.—If an animal be placed in a closed chamber filled with ordinary atmospheric air which contains by volume seventy-nine parts of nitrogen and twenty-one parts of oxygen, and if the air be examined after a time, it will be found that the oxygen has diminished in amount, and that a nearly corresponding amount of car- bon dioxide has been added. The same thing occurs in aquatic animals— the water round them loses oxygen and gains carbon dioxide. An animal takes up oxygen and gives off carbon dioxide. This is the process of external respiration. A. External Respiration I. Respiratory Mechanism.—In aquatic ani- mals the mechanism by which this process is carried on is a gill or gills. Each consists of a process from the surface covered by a very thin layer of integument, just below which is a tuft of capillary blood-vessels. The oxygen passes from the water to the blood ; the carbon dioxide from the blood to the water. A lung is simply a gill or mass of gills, turned outside in, with air instead of water outside the integument. While in aquatic gill-bearing ani- mals there is constantly a fresh supply of water passing over the gills, in lung-bearing animals the air in the lung sacs must be exchanged by some mechanical contrivance. The lungs consist of myriads of small thin- walled sacs attached round the funnel-like ex- pansions in which the air-passages (infundibular passages) terminate. Each sac is lined by a layer of simple squam- ous epithelium, supported by a framework of elastic fibrous tissue richly supplied with blood- vessels. It has been calculated that, if all the Fig. 142.—Scheme of the distribution of a bronchiole, infun- dibular passage, and air sacs of the lung. air vesicles in the lungs of a man were spread out in one continuous sheet, a surface of about 100 square metres would be produced, and that the blood capillaries would occupy about 75 square metres of this. Through these vessels about 5000 litres of blood would pass in twenty- four hours. The larger air-passages are supported by pieces of hyaline cartilage in their walls, but the smaller terminal passages, the bronchioles, are without this support, and are surrounded by a specially well-developed circular band of non-striped muscle — the bronchial muscle— which governs the admission of air to the in- fundibula and air sacs. The lungs are packed in the thorax round the heart, completely filling the cavity. They may be regarded as two compound elastic-ivalled sacs, which completely fill an air- tight box with movable walls—the thorax—and communicate with the exterior by the windpipe or trachea.