REFRACTION 498 Donders was the first to point out that though glasses for distant vision are a luxury, it is for near vision they should be considered a necessity, however much the child may prefer to be without them. If, however, we slightly under-correct children, who love to see objects clearly, we shall, as Jackson observes, tempt them to look obliquely thi'ough their glasses in order to see better, and thus by straining their muscles and introducing the astigmatic eifect of oblique lenses, derive more harm than good from their spectacles. To make sure of not exceeding the full correction in myopes who possess an active accommodation is by no means easy, and a mydriatic is more often necessary in myopia than in hypermetropia, except when we decide to under-correct, as we may do in people who will not misuse their glasses. Since by the exercise of accommodation objects can be seen with equal distinctness through lenses which over-correct the myopia, great care should be taken to select the toeakest glass that gives full distant vision. This rule, it will be remembered, is the oppo- site of that for presbyopia, where the strongest convex glass had to be chosen. When glasses are taken to for the first time by adults, it is generally needful to prescribe a reading pair weaker, by ID or more, than the distant pair. In presbyopia combined with myopia the reading-glass should be weakened by the amount of presbyopia. There are cases of congested choroid and ir- ritable retina in which, during the greater part of the day, it is inadvisable to wear glasses at all, since myopic haze gives the retina more rest than the continual appeal of well-seen objects. Such cases are liable to periodical attacks of congestion of the eyes, due not only to their over-use, but also to a constitutional disturbance not yet fully understood, and it is particularly at these times that the myopia increases and the greatest dangers are run of choroiditis or ha3morrhage at the macula. It is to aggravated cases of this kind that the name malignant myopia is applied. The ophthalmoscopic ap- pearances are described in their own section of this work. In prescribing glasses for high myopia two or three precautions are necessary. The first is to remember that the spectacle lenses will be worn nearer the eye than the lenses in the trial frame, and thus will over-correct the defect if the trial lenses exactly correct it. A glance at Fig. 6 will show that a lens exactly corrects a myopic eye when its principal focus coincides with the far point. When, however, the same lens is brought nearer the eye, its principal focus lies within the far point, so that the light enters the eye with a greater divergency than is required to correct the myopia. This excess of divergency, though overcome by the patient's accommodation, induces eye- strain all the more for that very reason. A slight deduction, therefore, must be made from the trial lens in proportion to its distance from the eye and also in proportion to its strength. Thus a subtraction of 0"5D may be necessary from a 5D trial lens, of ID from a lens of lOD, and of 2D from a lens of 20D, or possibly even more. Another precaution is to adjust the centres of strong lenses so as to give the most easy inclination of the visual lines to each other. The stronger a lens the greater is its prismatic effect on the visual line, when this line does not pass through the optical centre. A simple way of solving this problem, in the case of glasses prescribed for distance only, is to place the disc of glass rods in the trial frame, already filled with its lenses, and adjust the breadth of the frame till a distant flame appears to coin- cide with the streak. The recorded distance between the lens centres may then be prescribed unless it should be at all extraordinary. Since the range of accommodation is shifted in myopia, by the patient's far point being nearer than infinity as in emmetropia, the near point lies nearer the eye, and its recession does not embarrass the patient till later in life, and in the case of high myopia, never. Presbyopia.—Presbyopia is the physiological age-element that creeps in with every variety of refraction, and depends on gradual lessening of the range of accommodation from recession of the near point. It is due to decreasing elasti- city of the lens, supplemented in later life by atrophy of the ciliary muscle. The condition does not receive the name of presbyopia until the nearest point for comfortable reading begins to recede beyond the distance at which books and papers are generally held. In healthy emmetropia this begins about the age of forty- five, and is evidenced by the necessity of remov- ing near work to a rather greater distance from the eyes than formerly, and later still by the expedient, which the patient discovers for him- self, of allowing a quantity of light to enter the eyes while reading in order to contract the pupil and thus increase the definition of the retinal pictures in the same way that a small stop sharpens the definition of an imperfectly focussed camera. The healthy emmetrope would generally require about a -v 0'5D lens to correct his presbyopia at forty-five years of age, -|- 0'75D at forty-seven, -l-ID at fifty, +1-5D at fifty- five, 2-25D at sixty, 3D at sixty-five, 3-5D at seventy, and after seventy-five from 4 to 6D, according to the generally more or less dim- inished acuity of vision from senile changes. But it is always better to test the patient's near point both binocularly and monocularly, as already described, to make sure that the glasses prescribed make it lie well within the distance at which his calling in life requires his work to be, and which of course differs in different occupations. If the distance of the near point