REFRACTION 492 obliquely incident rays are bent away from the perpendicular, as if they came from a point called the " virtual focus," whose distance from the surface is two-thirds that of the real focus. To an eye in air, therefore, as illustrated in the diagram, the point 0 appears to be at 0'. Plane Glass.—When light passes through a sheet of plane glass the refractions at the two surfaces, being respectively incident and emer- gent, and thus of opposite kinds, neutralise each other, so that the rays emerge parallel to their previous course before incidence. Frisms.—When two plane faces of a trans- parent body are inclined to one another they enclose an " optical prism." A ray of light (^ in Fig. 3) falling on one face is deflected towards the normal (n), and on emerging from the second face is deflected from the normal (n), so that Fig. 3. the angle of total deflection lies between the incident ray (i) and the emergent ray produced backwards (r). It will be seen from the figure that prisms deflect light towards their bases, and appear to displace objects towards their apices. Thus to an eye at E, the object 0 appears displaced to 0' by an angle which is called the angle of deviation. When the material of the prism is glass, and provided also that the prism be a fairly weak one, and be so held that the light does not traverse it too obliquely, the angle of deviation is about half the angle between the two faces. A prism deflects light least (or, in other words, is held in the "position of minimum deviation") when the incident and emergent rays are sym- metrically inclined to its surface. The actual angle between the faces was that by which prisms used to be marked, and frequently are still. A suggestion ^ to measure prisms by the deviating angle instead of the material angle was published in 1886, since it is their optical properties, and not their physical conformations, that make them of value, and an easy method of so doing was placed by the writer in the hands of Messrs. Curry and Paxton. Jackson, independently and more publicly, proposed at a later date that all prisms should be numerated by their deviating angles. To distinguish this notation from the old one, it was agreed by a committee of the U.S.A. Ophthalmic Society that the letter d should be appended. Thus a prism of 3° d is the same as a 6" prism of the old marking; ' Syme Surgical Fellowship Essay, Edinburgh Univer- sity (1884), published 1886. though it deflects light by 3°, the angle between its faces is 6°. Lenses differ from prisms in that they have curved surfaces. They are divided into two classes, spherical and cylindrical. The former may be bi-convex {a, Fig. 4), bi-concave {h), plano-convex (c), plano-concave {d), convex menisci (e), or concave menisci (/). Every lens has an unchangeable optical strength peculiar to itself, and corresponding there- with a definite focal length, these two quantities being re- ciprocally related to each other, for the shorter the focal length the greater the optical strength. It is neces- sary, therefore, to explain what is meant by the focal length. A convex lens interposed in the path of a parallel beam of light brings the light to a focus at a constant distance from itself, which is called the "focal length of the lens" (Fig. 5). The stronger the lens the shorter its focal length, so that if we let F stand for the optical strength, and / for the focal length, F =y Ophthalmologists used formerly to measure / in inches, but now in metres, since the accepted unit of optical strength is that possessed by a lens of one metre focal length. This accepted unit of optical power is called a dioptre. of one dioptre Fig. 5.—A collecting lens: focal length positive. Two lenses each possessed of refractive power placed in close apposition would form a combination having twice the refractive power of either one alone ; hence the focal length of the com- bination would be half as much, i.e. half a metre. Three such apposed lenses would have an optical power three times as great, and therefore a focal length three times as short or one-third of a metre; and so on. In fact we have only to imagine ourselves possessed of a metre rod with no markings on it, and nothing else to measure with, to imderstand the dioptric system. This rod will be about 40 inches long. How many dioptres has any given lens % J ust as many as the times its focal length is measurable into the metre rod, or, in other words, as many as the times its focal length in inches will go into 40 inches. Take, e.g., a lens of 10 inches focal length ; it will measure four times into the rod, and therefore be of four dioptres. This lens is written down as 4- 4D, the plus sign being allotted to convex lenses. To concave lenses, on the other hand, the minus sign is prefixed. The latter have no real focus,