PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—OTHER AFFECTIONS AND COMPLICATIONS 277 IV. Blood Changes. —- The blood-mass or actual quantity of blood is markedly increased during gestation, and more especially in the later months, producing a spurious plethora. Its composition is, however, very radically changed, and becomes more watery, the albumin is deficient in the serum, and the red corpuscles are diminished in number. In addition to this the fibrinous element is much increased, as are urea and extractives, especially after the sixth month. Hence the blood condition is really one of ansemia rather than plethora. It has been shown by Wilcocks that the blood of pregnancy differs from chlorosis in that the individual blood cells are not impoverished in the former, "but are lessened in comparative number owing to an increase in the water of the plasma, the result of the progressive enlarge- ment of the vascular area during pregnancy." In both conditions the haemoglobin is lessened. This watery state of the blood may be much exaggerated under certain circumstances, giving rise to what is called (a) hydrwniia or serous plethora; it consists of serous effusion into the cellular tissue and peritoneal, pleural, and peri- cardial cavities. The oedema may occasionally form very rapidly, and, if in the thorax, is attended by great danger. The lower ex- tremities are also frequently affected, but the face, as a rule, remains free, and there is no albumin. This oedema must be carefully dis- tinguished from the ordinary pufiiness of the feet and legs which is so frequent in the later months of normal pregnancy. (^) The second type to which this poverty of blood may lead is progressive ■pernicious a7icemia. In this condition too few red corpuscles are produced, and too many shrunken and ill-de- veloped ones are thrown into the circulation. Fatty degeneration of the heart, especially of the papillse, follows, and a somewhat similar change in the minor coats of the arteries and capillaries. The disease begins very insidiously during the early months, but the graver symp- toms do not manifest themselves until later; the prognosis is extremely grave. Of Graefe's 25 cases almost all died. Abortion frequently occurs; induction of labour is absolutely in- dicated, and as early as a diagnosis is made. Transfusion has been tried, but has been so far attended by uniformly fatal results. The treat- ment of extreme cases of ansemia must be dietetic and medicinal. The diet should be easily assimilated, and consists of milk, eggs, and beef tea, while iron in all forms and com- bined with arsenic or phosphorus is strongly indicated. Purpura hmniorrhagica is defined by Immer- mann as an acquired and transitional diathesis which suddenly and unexpectedly, and always sporadically, occurs in persons who have been apparently quite healthy, and which cannot be traced to family taint or history as in haemo- philia. The prognosis is extremely serious when complicating pregnancy, the large majority proving fatal. Abortion or premature labour almost inevitably takes place, but at variable periods, either owing to the serious genei'al dis- turbance or to haemorrhage into the placenta. The disease is not transmitted, so far as has been observed, to the fostus; it is certainly one of the causes of intra-uterine death. V. Syphilis. — If infection be recent this disease is followed by the usual primary symp- toms ; the secondary and tertiary signs are usually of a mild type, probably due to the more active processes of nutrition in the preg- nant condition. Constitutional syphilis has a very injurious influence on the foetus ; intra-uterine death may occur, followed by abortion, or if the child is born alive it is either premature or very weakly, and may die early. Should it appear healthy at birth congenital symptoms speedily set in, taking the form of marasmus, nasal ozsena, corneitis, rashes, and characteristic dentition. The placenta may be aftected in two ways: either a general fibrosis may invade its sub- stance, or distinct gummata may be formed. A woman who has given birth to a syphilitic child may, according to Colles, expose herself to infection by suckling it or otherwise without risk. Treatment during pregnancy should always be systematically carried out; mercury and iron, combined with a little opium, being given in the form of pill thrice daily throughout the gestation period. VI. Pulmonary Disturbances.—There seems to be a slight increase in the amount of carbonic acid discharged from the lungs during preg- nancy. During the later months there is a diminution in the vital capacity of the lungs, the thorax being increased in breadth, but diminished in its antero-posterior diameters— this being exactly reversed after the termination of labour. The changes are due probably " to the diaphragmatic points of insertion being pulled upon by the descending uterus ; the base of the thorax yields at its weakest spot, i.e. the anterior wall, the flexible costal cartilage being attached there." The result of this is that the sternum recedes, thus reducing the antero- posterior thoracic diameter, while the ribs be- come increased in their lateral curves. These physical changes will account for the feeling of oppression felt by the patient towards the end of pregnancy, and the relief obtained by the "lightening before labour" when the uterus sinks deeply into the pelvic brim. Among acute pulmonary diseases pneumonia, although extremely rare in the pi-egnant woman, is markedly fatal. The gestation may be inter- rupted, but this is more likely to occur in the later months; this is probably due to the in- complete aeration of the maternal blood, and partly to the death of the foetus, which is the