33 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES when it is stimulated the arterioles dilate and allow an increased flow of blood through the capillaries. These fibres, therefore, instead of increasing the activity of muscular contraction, diminish or inhibit it. They play the same part in regard to the muscular fibres of the arterioles as the inferior cardiac branch of the vagus does in regard to the cardiac muscular fibres. As examples of vaso-dilator nerves, the gastric branches of the vagus carrying vaso- dilator fibres to the mucous membrane of the Flfi. 138.—Diagram of the distribution of vaso-motor nerves. The continuous line shows the vaso-constrictors, the dotted line the vaso-dilators. C.N., Cranial nerves ; Vag., vagus; T.S., thoracic sympathetic ; A.S., abdominal sympathetic ; N.L., nerves to the leg. stomach, and the nervi erigentes carrying vaso- dilator fibres to the external genitals, may be taken. The vaso-dilator nerves of most parts of the body run side by side with the vaso-constrictor nerves; and, hence, curious results are often obtained. If the sciatic nerve of a dog be cut, the arterioles of the foot dilate. If the peri- pheral end of the cut nerve is stimulated, the vessels contract. But, after a few days, if the nerve be prevented from uniting, the arterioles of the foot recover their tonic contraction, and, if the sciatic nerve is then stimulated, a dilata- tion, and not a constriction, is brought about. The vaso-constrictor fibres seem to die more rapidly than the vaso-dilator fibres which run alongside of them. Under certain conditions the activity of the vaso-dilator fibres seems to VOL. VIII be increased. Thus, if, when the limb is warm, the sciatic nerve is stimulated, dilatation rather than constriction may occur. Again, while rapidly repeated and strong induction shocks are apt to cause constriction, slower and weaker stimuli tend to produce dilatation. Course. — The vaso-dilator nerves pass out chiefly by the anterior roots of the various spinal nerves, and do not pass through the sympathetic ganglia, but run as medullated fibres to their terminal ganglia (Fig. 138). Bayliss has recently shown that the vaso-dilator fibres for the hind limb leave the cord by the posterior roots, and that they are connected with the cells in the ganglia. 3. Portions of Nervous System Presiding over the Vaso-motor Mechanism. — Since a set of nerves causing constriction of the arterioles, and another set causing dilatation exist, we must conclude that there are two mechanisms in the central nervous system —one a vaso- constrictor, the other a vaso-dilator. A. Vaso-CONSTRICTOR Centre.—(fz.) Mode of Action.-—This mechanism is constantly in action, maintaining the tonic contraction of the arteri- oles. If any afferent nerve be stimulated, the effect is to increase the activity of the mechanism, to cause a general constriction of arterioles, and thus to raise the general arterial pressure. The centre is, therefore, capable of reflex excitation. In ordinary conditions so many afferent nerves are constantly being stimulated, that it is not easy to say how far the tonic action of this centre is reflex and dependent on the stream of afferent impulses. But this centre may also be directly acted upon by the condition of the blood and lymph circulating through it. When the blood is not properly oxygenated and freed from carbon dioxide, as in asphyxia or suffocation, this centre is stimulated and a general constriction of arterioles with high blood pressure results. (6) Position.—In investigating the position of the centre we may take advantage of— 1st. Its constant tonic influence. Removal of the centre at once causes dilatation of arterioles. 2nd. The fact that it may be refleily stimu- lated. If the vaso-constrictor centre be removed, stimulation of an afferent nerve no longer causes constriction of the arterioles. Removal of the whole brain above the pons Varolii leaves the centre intact. Separation of the pons Varolii and medulla oblongata from the spinal cord at once causes a dilatation of the arterioles of the body, and prevents the production of reflex constriction by stimulation of an afferent nerve. The main part, at least, of the vaso-constrictor mechanism is therefore situated in the pons Varolii and medulla oblongata. The extent of this centre has been determined 3