568 RHEUMATISM—RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS observation in hospital. No cause capable of producing pysemia was discovered. Effusion of blood into the joint is referred to by Goodhart. The above description can hardly be con- sidered to apply with any closeness to a large number of cases of acute onset and rapid course, which, clinically, do not present the features which are detailed above. Bony out-growth and deformity are absent in such joints, and their absence is evident not only to the fingers of the examiner, but also by the more convincing- test supplied by the X-rays. A skiagram from such a case is described and figured byBannatyne. A description of the joint tissues removed by operation has been given in detail chiefly by Continental writers, and it throws an important light on certain features of the disease. Schiiller, of Berlin, has described the appearances in joints operated on by himself. He proposes to call a group of cases which he believes to have distinctive features " Arthritis chronica villosa," and reserves for chronic cases with changes in the bone and cartilage the name Arthritis deformans. The essential feature in the former is chronic inflammatory over-growth of the synovial mem- brane, with the formation of fringes and tufts much larger and more massive than in normal joints, or in those the seat of other inflammatory processes. In freshly opened joints the synovial mem- brane shows red, swollen, and highly vascular. He has never found in these cases the changes of the cartilage characteristic of arthritis de- formans. In this form, and in this form only, he found a peculiar bacillus in the villi, to be described later. It is interesting to remember in this relation Bannatyne's statement in 1898, that his bacillus was found only in the acute polyarticular cases with soft synovial enlarge- ment, and not in the chronic cases with out- growth of bone and lipping. Schiiller considers that the change in the contour of the joint in the group he calls polyarthritis chronica villosa is due entirely to the chronic inflammatory thickening and ex- tensions of the synovial membrane caused by the invasion of a peculiar bacillus, and not at all to bony changes. The chief changes in the joint in the group he calls arthritis defor- mans are, on the other hand, in the articular cartilage, and depend on prolific over-growth of cai'tilage cells, swelling of cell spaces, and splitting up and wearing away of the cartilage at friction and pressure points, with out-growth of cartilaginous or bony tissue at the periphery. In this variety the synovial membrane forms villi, but these are less massive and much less vascular. They show the character of chronic- ally inflamed connective tissue, and the bacilli present in the other form are absent. Schiiller confirms the observation that ex- amination by Rbntgen rays shows the absence of bony changes in arthritis chronica villosa and their presence in arthritis deformans. He regards the two affections as different in path- ology and in clinical characters. Examination with X-rays has shown that the bones in rheumatoid arthritis may look fragile, as if atrophied, and are more penetratable by the rays than is normal. Similar changes were noted by Adams from observations of bones after death. Still describes the post-mortem appearances of joints in three children, the subjects of rheumatoid arthritis, at the Hospital for Sick Children. In two there was marked thickening and vascularity of the synovial membrane, capsule, and ligaments. Fibrillation of cartil- age, eburnation of bone, and osteophytic out- growths were quite absent. The changes resemble those in the arthritis chronica villosa of Schiiller. Beyond the joint changes morbid anatomy shows little that is distinctive or constant. The muscles show well-marked but not uniform atrophy, some fibres being more aff"ected than others (Debove). Peripheral neuritis has been present in some cases, and Pitres and Vailliard consider it is constant when there are trophic changes in the skin and muscles. In certain forms of the disease in children adherent pericardi^im is found with striking frequency (Still), and its presence in adults also has been noted (Bannatyne, A. E. Garrod). Valvular disease is present in some cases, but hitherto its occurrence has been considered accidental, and as the result of previous attacks of true rheumatism. Pathology.—The pathology of rheumatoid arthritis is a subject about which the most diverse views have been from time to time held by observers of repute. Charcot and many French writers have believed that the aff'ection has close affinities with true rheumatism, of which it is a chronic variety. Jonathan Hutchinson regards the disease as the result of a combination of the rheumatic and gouty processes, in some cases one pre- ponderating, and in some the other. Arbuthnot Lane's views have already been referred to. He believes that the joint changes are due to merely mechanical causes—that they are essentially local and traumatic in origin. The theory that impaired nutrition of joints is the underlying factor in the production of the lesions characteristic of the disease has had wide acceptance. Many writers have accepted the theory of an arthritic diathesis, by which is meant, as defined by Hutchinson, a bodily condition which renders a person liable, at some time and under suitable provocation, to become the subject of active arthritic manifestations.