64 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES Unless the contents of the stomach ai"e very fluid these movements do not produce a very great mixing of the food taken. This separation of the food into layers according to the time at which it was taken is very well marked in the horse, but has also been demonstrated in the dog (Fig. 164). Nervous Mechanism of Gastric Movements.— Even after the section of all the gastric nerves, Fig. 164.—stomach of a dog fed successively with tliree different to show the absence of mixing. (Sclieunert.) movements of the stomach may be observed, but the mechanism of these movements has not been fully studied. The action of the vagus and sympathetic fibres is complicated, and their influence on the wall of the stomach and the sphincters requires further investigation. Speaking genei'ally, the vagus seems to increase the movements, while the sympathetic fibres check them. The vagus when stimulated gener- ally causes inhibition of the cardiac sphincter and contraction of the pylorus, but the result is not constant. Absorption from the Stomach.—Yiy ligation of the pyloric end, it has been found that the stomach plays a very small part in the absorp- tion of food. Its chief function is to act as a reservoir. Probably the antiseptic action of its secretion is of considerable importance. While it plays a certain part in digestion its action is by no means indispensable, for it has been removed in animals and in men without disturbance of the health. Vomiting.—Sometimes the stomach is emptied upwards through the gullet instead of down- wards through the pylorus. This act of vomit- ing is generally a reflex one, resulting from irritation of the gastric mucous membrane, and more rarely from stimulation of other nerves. It is a reaction to nocuous stimuli. Usually the act is preceded by a feeling of nausea and by a free secretion of saliva. In vomiting, the glottis is closed, and, after a forced inspiratory effort by which air is drawn down into the gullet, a forced and spasmodic expiration presses on the stomach, while at the same time the cardiac sphincter is relaxed through the action of the vagus, and the contents of the stomach are sent upwards. They are at first prevented from passing into the nares by the contraction of the muscles of the soft palate; but, as the act continues, these muscles are overcome, and the vomited matter escapes through mouth and nose. The wall of the stomach also seems to act, but its action is non-essential, since vomiting may be produced in an animal in which a bladder has been inserted in place of the stomach. The centre which presides over the act is in the medulla oblongata, and while it / is usually reflexly called into action, it may be stimulated directly by such drugs as apomorphine. iv. Intestinal Digestion.—After being- subjected to gastric digestion the food is generally reduced to a semi-fluid, grey, pultaceous condition of strongly acid re- action known as chyme, and in this con- dition it enters the duodenum. Here it meets three different secre- foods tions :- Pancreatic secretion. Intestinal secretion. Bile. A. Pancreatic Secretion The secretion of the pancreas may, in the dog, be procured by malting either a temporary or a permanent fistula. In the former case the duct is exposed, and a cannula fastened in it; in the latter the duct is made to open on the surface of the abdomen, a small piece of the intestinal wall with the mucous membrane round the opening of the duct being stitched to the abdominal opening. 1. Characters and Composition.—When ob- tained immediately from a temporary fistula, the pancreatic juice is a clear, slimy fluid, with a specific gravity of 1030 or less and an alkaline reaction. It contains an abundance of a native protein having the characters of a globulin, and the alkalinity is probably due to sodium carbonate and disodium phosphate. Fi'om a permanent fistula a more abundant flow of more watery secretion may be collected. 2. Action.—Closely associated with the pro- tein, and precipitated by alcohol along with it, are the enzymes upon which the action of the pancreatic juice depends. \st. A Proteolytic Enzyme—Trypsin.—This, in a weakly alkaline or neutral fluid, converts native proteins into peptones, and then breaks these peptones into simpler non-protein bodies. The pancreatic juice brings about this break- ing down of protein in stages. It does not