POST-MORTEM METHODS 217 lae taken. The films are stained by Ziehl- Neelsen's method. The tubercle bacilli stand out as red rods upon a blue ground. Other organisms present are stained by the methylene blue contrast stain. A scraping from a leprous nodule or sections of it may also be stained by this method. The bacilli are found in clusters in the " lepra " cells, and also free. Injitienza.—The bacillus of influenza is very minute and difficult to demonstrate. The best stain to use is Ziehl-Neelsen's, diluted with four times its bulk of distilled water, and filtered. This should be allowed to act for half an hour, and subsequent decolorisation in weak acetic acid should not be carried far. The bacilli often occur in clusters, the long axes pointing mostly in one direction, and they show end-staining, the central part of the rod being only faintly stained, so that they may resemble minute diplo-forms. Anthrax.—The bacillus is of large size and thick, and may be demonstrated by Gram's method in sections of, or in fluid from, the vesicles on the raised edge of the malignant pustule. Cultivation methods should also be practised. Acute Spreading Gangrene.—The most im- portant variety of this is malignant oedema, and great care must be employed—as in the case of anthrax—to avoid inoculating one's self. Here again fluid from simple puncture, or ob- tained in a sterilised hypodermic needle, may be examined for the bacillus of malignant oedema, which may present an oval spore lying- near the centre of the rod. This must in addition be examined by anaerobic culture methods. In cases of tetanus the discharge from the primary wound may be examined by staining, but the bacillus is not always found in this way. Cultural methods should always be tried. Plague. — Fluid obtained by hypodermic puncture is examined by simple staining methods, and by culture on agar. Here again excessive caution is demanded. Buboes, when punctured, usually break down early. In pneumonic plague the sputum may show both plague bacilli and Frankel's diplococcus, and it may be difficult to distinguish between them, even though the former does not stain by Gram's method. The plague bacillus is usually somewhat oval, and shows marked end-staining. Actinomycosis.—The pus is thin, and contains minute yellowish points, which should be picked out and examined after staining by Gram's method. Usually an irregular felted collection of filaments is found, in which dichotomous branching may be distinguished. These are some of the diseases which may be met with by the practitioner, in which bacterio- logical investigation by staining methods assists •diagnosis. B. Investigation by cultivation on suitable media, such as beef-broth, agar-agar, peptone gelatine, glucose agar, and blood serum. Beef-broth, which is also the basis of agar-agar and peptone gelatine, is made as follows:— Place in an enamelled pan | lb. (500 grammes) of minced lean beef. AH visible fat must be removed. Add rather more than one litre (35 oz.) of water, and macerate for an hour at a gentle heat considerably below boiling-point, then bring slowly to the boil. Allow to cool so that the fat solidifies, filter through several layers of muslin, and make up to one litre. To this beef-extract, which is simply a solution of the flesh extractives and salts, and is closely analogous to normal urine, is added nutrient material in the form of digested albumin (pep- tone) and common salt. Very good beef-extract may be made by dis- solving 3 grammes of Liebig's extract of meat in one litre of water. To make beef-broth (bouillon) take : peptone, 10 grammes (1 per cent); common salt, 5 grammes (| per cent); beef-extract, 1 litre; or smaller proportionate quantities. Dissolve with the aid of heat. Test the reaction of the result with litmus paper. If acid, render faintly alkaline with a few drops of 10 per cent solu- tion of caustic soda. Again boil thoroughly, and filter through moistened filter-paper into a perfectly clean glass flask or into test-tubes. Plug with unmedicated cotton-wool, and ster- ilise for an hour on three successive days in a Koch's steriliser or in a potato-steamer. The broth is then ready for use. A solid medium is, however, for many pur- poses more convenient, and to obtain this, agar or gelatine (finest gold medal) is added to the beef-broth. The former is for incubation at high temperatures, the latter for cultivation at room temperatures. The agar and gelatine of themselves have no nutrient value. The method of preparing a litre of each is described. If properly sterilised, they keep indefinitely. Agar-gelatine, or shortly " Agar." Agar-agar, 20 grammes (2 per cent). Beef-broth, 1 litre. The agar is cut up in small pieces and soaked for a quarter of an hour in about 1"500 acetic acid in water. It is then collected in a piece of muslin and washed thoroughly in tap-water until all traces of acid reaction disappear. This treatment facilitates solution. Boil thoroughly in an enamelled pan, avoid- ing burning, until all the agar is dissolved. See that the reaction is still slightly alkaline ; cool down to about 45° C, and add the white of an egg with the shell which have been beaten up with 100 c.c. of water. This water helps to make up for loss by evaporation. Shake up and boil again thoroughly, stirring the while to prevent burning, until the egg coagulates and