114 PLAGUE ships arrived, one ship from Alexandria furnish- ing nine cases of plague (including two infected while upon attendance on the sick in port), another having had cases on the voyage from South America, and another one case from Cape Town, and two others had had cases en route from India. In addition a vessel from Smyrna arrived at Bristol with plague-infected rats. During 1902 only eleven ships suspected of being infected by plague arrived, one with a case on board, other four having had cases during the voyage. Four ships had had a rat mortality on board. Only one of these rat epidemics was suspicious of plague, but the bacillus did not react to all the tests for the specific micro-organism of plague. There was, however, a certain amount of similarity between these bacilli. No cases of plague have occurred in Great Britain beyond ship-borne cases, except the Glasgow cases of 1900 and 1901, Liverpool 1901, and two cases (one of which was not bacteriologically confirmed) at Cardifi^ in the same year, both employed in grain stores in the docks, where there was a rat epidemic. It is to be noted that all these places are ports, and the employment of some of the household of the first cases in Glasgow and Liverpool, as has been said, has been traced to the docks, but no source of original infection has been deter- mined. It is obvious that medical inspection of ship- ping from infected ports is of great value in keeping plague cases out of the country, and in this we have been very successful; but it would appear, in the light of the experience of other countries, that the infection of the ports of this country may possibly occur by means of plague rats rather than by human agency, and a very much more difficult cause to prevent. 5. Symptomatology and Types Plague may be divided into the following clinical types :—(1) Bubonic plague; (2) Septi- csemic plague; (3) Pneumonic plague; (4) Intestinal plague; (5) Pe&tis ambidans; (6) Pestis minor. It must be recognised that these types are not distinct, and that a patient suffering from bubonic plague may be also suffering from plague septicsemia and pneumonia, i.e. cases of a mixed type are not uncommon. The essential characteristic of plague is inflammation of the lymph glands, usually those in the groin, axilla, or neck; it is to these cases the term bubonic plague is applied. In the septicfemic type, the internal lymph glands throughout the body, such as the mesenteric and retroperitoneal glands, are found to be affected. In the pneu- monic type the glands at the root of the lung are frequently implicated. It is doubtful whether there is a distinct intestinal type of plague. Pestis ambulans is a mild form of the bubonic type. Pestis minor is a mild glandu- lar complaint which may have some relation to plague, as yet ill-determined. (1) Bubonic Plague.—After an incubative period, commonly from two to five days, the disease sets in with sudden high fever, preceded sometimes by rigors, sometimes in children with convulsions, and sometimes by prodromal symp- toms, as headache, chilliness, nausea, vomiting, vague pains in the back, groins, or axilla. The patient rapidly becomes markedly ill. Examination of the case in its early stages shows great prostration, high fever, swelling or tenderness in the groin, axilla, or neck, giddi- ness, loss of appetite, nausea, sometimes vomit- ing and diarrhoea, pains in the head, back, and limbs, restlessness, sleeplessness, and it may be delirium, together with inco-ordination of speech and gait. Injection of the conjunctiva is fre- quently well marked; the face is at first flushed, becoming pale later, and the expression may be anxious or apathetic. The pulse is rapid, and the respirations may be increased. The tongue is usually coated, with red edges. The signs and symptoms of plague, as they affect the various systems of the body, are as follows :— Lymphatic System.—In this system we find the characteristic plague lesions, buboes being present in about three-quarters of the cases, in some epidemics a greater proportion, though in others few of the cases may show enlarged glands. In a short time, varying from a few hours to two days, the characteristic bubo makes its appearance. There is first a mere tenderness in the groin, axilla, or neck—it may be only upon pressure. Then a slight fulness and redness appears, with increasing tenderness. It is not uncommon to find one or more enlarged glands quite distinct from one another. Later, with periglandular effusion, they become agglu- tinated together. The term bubo does not mean an inflamed gland, but one or more glands matted together, along with the periglandular infiltration. These changes may succeed one another with great rapidity, a surprising diflference being manifested in but a few hours. The swelling may reach the size of an orange, or a man's fist, or even larger. Pain on palpation, as a rule, is exquisite; the neighbourhood of the glands implicated reveals a considerable amount of oedema, so that the gland itself can be made out sometimes only on deep pressure. The patient often lies with a flexed limb to relieve pressure on the bubo, his attitude giving some- times a hint as to the site of the glands affected. Deep palpation in the iliac region will often reveal the presence of inflamed glands, which are especially associated with inguinal and femoral cases; occasionally these iliac glands may be the only ones implicated, and may give rise to some difficulty in diagnosis, as sometimes they cause little pain till they are palpated.