PREDISPOSITION 222 tion or state of the tissues of the body which renders them prone to be attacked by some disease, microbic or non-microbic. Preformation. — in embryology the theory of preformation supposes that all the parts of the fully formed organism exist in miniature in the germ ; it is opposed to the theory of epi- genesis introduced by Harvey and C. F. Wolff. Prefronta.!.—Situated in front of the frontal bone or of the frontal lobe of the brain. Preg^ang^lionic. See Physiology, Neuro-Muscular Mechanism {Spinal Nerves, vol. vii. p. 550). Preg'nancy.—This subject will be de- scribed in the following sections :— A. PHYSIOLOGICAL SECTION Changes in the Maternal Organs . .222 Diagnosis of Pregnancy .... 229 Multiple Pregnancy . . . .235 Management of Pregnancy . . .238 B. PATHOLOGICAL SECTION Affections of Ovum and Decidua . . 240 Diseases of Placenta and Cord . . 248 Diseases and Death of the Ecetus . . 254 Affections and Accidental Complications of 264 (a) Generative Organs . . .264 (b) Other than Generative Organs . 273 (c) Death 280 Haemorrhage during Pregnancy . . 281 See also Abortion ; Appendix Vermiformis, Appendicitis {As a Complication of Pregnancy); Appetite {Perversion or Pica); Ascites {Distinc- tion from other Conditions); Asthma {Origin and Cause); Blood {Physiological Variations, Leuco- cytosis in Pregnancy); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Cerebral Embolism, Causes); Chlorosis {Diag7iosis); Cholera, Epidemic {Pro- gnosis) ; Chorea {Etiology); Cough {Clinical Varieties); Diabetes Mellitus [Predisposirig and Exciting Causes); Ear, Middle, Chronic Non- suppurative Inflammation {Atrophic Catarrh, Causation); Eclampsia ; Ectopic Gestation ; Embryology ; Heart, Myocardium and Endo- cardium {Etiology, Predisposing Influences); In- sanity, Etiology of ; Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Etiological Varieties); Labour in Multiple Pregnancy ; Labour, Accidental Complications {Abnormalities of the Cord); Labour, Obstetric Operations {Induction); Leucocytosis {Physiological, in Pregnancy); Life Insurance {Female Lives); Liver, Diseases OP (Acute Yellow Atrophy, Etiology); Lung, Tuberculosis {Complications); Malaria {Com- plications, Pregnancy); Malingering {Feigned Pregnancy); Maternal Impressions ; Medicine, Forensic {Rape, Signs of Pregnancy); Medicine, Forensic {Infanticide, Concealment of Preg- nancy) ; Menstruation and its Disorders {Metrorrhagia, Causes in Pregnancy); Micturi- tion {Frequency and Retention, in Pregnancy) • Nephritis {Etiology, Chronic Nephritis, Preg- nancy) ; Ovaries, Diseases of the {Diagnosis of Ovarian Tumour); Ovaries {Primary Ovarian Pregnancy); Pelvis, Hematocele and Hemat- oma ; Peritonitis, Acute General {Diagnosis from Ruptured l\ibal Pregnancy); Pica ; Pruri- tus (/« Pre(/7ia7icy); PSEUDOCYESIS; PUERPERIUM, Physiology and Pathology {Insanity; etc.); Pulse {Frequency, in Pregnancy); Skin, Pig- mentary Affections of {Emotional Pigmenta- tion of Pregnancy); Teeth {Causes of Dental Caries); Teratology ; Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exophthalmic Goitre in Pregnancy); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Goitre, Etiology); Toxicology {Lead-Poisoning, Abortion); Typhoid Fever {Association ivith other Conditions, Pregnancy); Uterus, Inflammation of the {Subinvolution, Diagnosis); Uterus, Malignant Tumours op {Cancer of the Cervix and Pregnancy). A. PHYSIOLOGICAL SECTION Changes in the Maternal Organs I. Local Changes In Uterus 223 In the Peritoneum and Appendages . 225 In the Blood- Vessels . . . .225 In the Lymphatics and Nerves . . 225 In the Vagina and External Genitals . 226 In the Pelvic Joints .... 226 In Adjacent Organs .... 226 In the Abdominal Wall . . . 226 In the Mammae ..... 226 II. General Changes The Toxaemia of Pregnancy . . .227 Changes in the Blood and Circulation . 227 In the Liver and Spleen . . . 228 In Respiration . . . .228 In the Digestive System and in Nutrition 228 In Bones and in Gait . . . 228 In the Skin 228 In the Nervous System . . . 228 In the Urine 229 As soon as an impregnated ovum becomes implanted in the uterine mucosa a series of remarkable changes sets in, not only in the generative organs, but in adjacent and distant structures, and indeed, the whole general economy becomes materially altered. These modifications may be conveniently divided into (1) local; (2) general. I. Local Changes The most important of these are necessarily in the uterus itself. At each menstrual epoch changes of hypertrophy and increased vascu- larity take place, but if impregnation does not occur, a destructive process sets in resulting in