500 REFRACTION figures are placed in a strong light, that the reflections from the cornea may be studied, the arms, to begin with, being horizontal. Since each figure (or mire, as it is called) appears doubled on the patient's cornea, four reflections are seen, of whicli two lie close together. One mire is then moved until its margin appears to touch that of the other. The curvature of the meridian may now be read oft" from the instru- ment, and if after rotating the arms through a quarter of a circle the mires still touch, there is no astigmatism. Should they overlap (Fig. 14), Fig. 13. it shows the second meridian to be more strongly curved than the first, and to possess as many additional dioptres of refractive power as there are steps in the overlapping. Should, however, the mires, instead of overlapping, have moved farther apart, the second meridian is the less curved of the two, and after bringing the mires together again, the arms should be swung round once more to the first meridian to count the overlapping there. Should one mire appear displaced tangentially with reference to the other, it shows that the meridians of maximum and minimum curvature are oblique, and the arms should be swung round till the tangential displacement is corrected. One of the two required meridians is now found, and the other is at right angles to it. But after all has been said, the most service- able tests for intelligent patients are the sub- jective ones, and all others should be supple- mented by it. We may divide subjective tests into type-tests and line-tests. For the former, Snellen's test-types are used, at a distance of 6 metres, while lenses are manipulated before the eye. The best lens to begin with in an eye approximately emmetropic, or after correcting H or M as nearly as may be, is a - 0"5D Cyl., after placing a trial frame on the face with an obturator {i.e. an opaque disc) before the other eye. If this lens affects vision equally, with axis placed first horizontal and then vertical, there is no antigmatism, unless of the oblique kind. The next step, therefore, is to place the same lens with axis at 45° on one side of the vertical, and then axis at 1.35° on the other side. Whenever better vision is obtained with the axis in any one position than in a position perpendicular to it, astigmatism is detected The lens is now to be rotated till the best position of the axis is obtained, and then left in position while other minus cylindrical lenses of increasing strength are tried in succession before it, with Fig. 14. their axes in line with its axis, till the maximum acuity of vision is reached. But during this process care should be taken to try the effect, at intervals, of weak convex sphericals, and if vision is improved, or even made no worse by them, they should be adopted, and be associated with the cylinder in the trial frame. Moreover, the exact inclination of the axis should be con- firmed as the examination proceeds, since with increasing strength of cylindrical correction the exact placing of the axis becomes more delicate and easy. Finally, a weak Cyl. of -0'25D (or a Jackson's lens, which consists of a weak + Cyl. combined with a weak - Cyl. at right angles to each other) should be placed alternately " axis with " and " axis against " the previously found cor- rection. If these two posi- tions affect vision equally the astigmatism is properly corrected, and the other eye can be proceeded with in like manner. Ujider-Correction of Astigmatism.—It is my impression that astigmatism, whether myopic, mixed, or hypermetropic, should be slightly ^ under-corrected, to allow play for the variable element, for though the mass of the astigmatism remains unchanged, there is a kind of fluctuating margin, like the ebb and flow of the tide, de- pendent on varying tone and contraction of the eyelids. This interesting subject, which has been specially studied by George Bull and Greorge Berry, deserves a longer account than the scope of this article allows. Line-tests.—Only the best of these need be mentioned, namely, first, those which consist of a group of radiating lines, as exemplified in Snellen's " Sunrise," or the well-known " clock " ; and, second, those consisting of one or more gi'oups of parallel lines. A single group can be rotated on the wall, or several groups of lines running in difl'erent directions may be placed near each other on a stationary card. A very good example of the last, to which my attention was called by Mr. Lionel Laurence, is made by the " Montreal Optical Company." We may, however, select the "clock" to illustrate the principle of all other line-tests. In this, twelve narrow bands, each consisting of three parallel lines, radiate from a centre. After excluding one eye of the patient, and placing the clock 6 metres off, the weakest minus, or strongest plus, spherical lens should be selected which only just allows one diameter to be distinct. One meridian of the eye has now been made I emmetropic, namely, that which is at right ^ The advice, which the reader may have met with, to choose the weakest minus cylinder, or the strongest plus cylinder, which gives best visual acuity is based on an obvious fallacy. The weakest of either should be chosen.