181 PNEUMONIA—CLINICAL SECTION Pulmonary consumption very rarely follows in the wake of croupous pneumonia, whereas it is a common sequela of catarrhal pneumonia. In a draper's assistant, a young man aged 19, lately under the writer's care, a suspicious secondary fever set in after eight or nine days' pyrexia. Repeated examinations of the sputum failed to show the presence of tubercle bacilli, and the disturbance passed off after a fortnight, leaving no ill effects. The attack was probably due to some septic absorption in the resolution stage of a right apical pneumonia (see Tempera- ture Chart L, p. 171). Diagnosis In a well-marked typical case the diagnosis of acute croupous pneumonia presents no diffi- culty, at least after a day or two. But in masked or larval cases, or where the disease runs an atypical and sluggish course, the diagnosis may be attended with much doubt. Again, there are morbid states of the lung, which in their symptoms and physical signs may simulate acute pneumonia. Typhus.—The onset of pneumonia often closely resembles typhus in its pre-emptive stage. The initial rigors, headache, sleeplessness, brisk rise of temperature, constipation, and suffused eyes and face, are common to both diseases. The diagnosis is settled by the respiratory symptoms of the lung attack, its rusty sputum, and its physical signs. Also the epidemic prevalence of either one or other disease should be taken into account. Enteric Fever.—In the Annual Report of the Metropolitan Asylums Board for 1897, it is stated that of 293 patients admitted to hospital certified as suffering from enteric fever, 4 had bronchitis and 61 had lobar pneumonia. These figures would lead to the conclusion that enteric fever and acute pneumonia are often confounded with each other. The mistake might be excusable in those rare instances in which pneumonia runs a protracted course, with continued fever, and perhaps diarrhoea and wasting. But at the onset of an attack a systematic examination of the chest should obviate a wrong diagnosis. Even when cough and expectoration are absent, the rapid respiration, unequal expansion of one side of the chest, and the results of a careful physical examination, should clear up the diag- nosis, particularly if the Widal test yielded a negative result. Of course no reference is here made to the so-called typhoid or ataxic state, which may supervene in either enteric fever or pneumonia. Meningitis.—Dr. Osier, writing in 1890, ob- serves that " nervous symptoms are more fre- quent in pneumonia than in typhoid, and from the onset may so dominate that the local lesion is entirely overlooked. For instance, in the case of cerebral pneumonia of children, in which the disease sets in with a convulsion, there are high fever, delirium, great irritability, muscular tremor, and perhaps retraction of the head and neck, and consequently meningitis is usually diagnosed. Cases occur in which the malady sets in with acute mania. For example, a young man behaved so strangely on the train that he was handed over to the police as a lunatic, and as he had no cough and little fever (though he complained of a pain in the side) pneumonia was not recognised for several days. Again, pulmonary features are frequently masked where the patient has delirium tremens, and error is certain to occur unless it is made an invariable rule to examine the chest in these cases." He goes on to say: " There are cases with toxic features resembling ursemia • without chill, cough, or pain in the side the patient may develop fever and a little shortness of breath, and then gradually grow dull and heavy, and within three days there may be a condition of profound toxsemia, with low, muttering delirium. In many of these cases the most characteristic symptoms of the disease may be absent, particu- larly the cough and the rusty sputum ; but the physical signs, if they are elicitable, are well marked. Even in the gravest of these cerebral cases the crisis and the onset of convalescence may occur in the ordinary way, and the patient may pass from a condition of extreme danger to one of perfect safety." Other Chest Affections.—When in catarrhal pneumonia many adjacent lobules are affected, the physical signs of consolidation of the lung may be present. But the history of the attack should solve the question of diagnosis, although the distinction between catarrhal and croupous pneumonia may not matter much so far as treatment is concerned. Passive or mechanical congestion of the lungs, leading to pulmonary oedema or hypostatic con- solidation, may resemble pneumonia in regard to physical signs. But the conditions named develop slowly, are for the most part afebrile, and are neither unilateral nor lobar in their distribution. An apical pneumonia may excite fears of a pulmonary tuberculosis, which even the failure to discover Koch's bacillus in the sputum may not lull to rest. In a recent instance the writer was very uneasy about a patient who, when recovering from a sharp attack of right apical pneumonia, developed a secondary fever of some ten days' duration, at the same time assuming a very phthisical aspect. Koch's bacilli were not found in the sputum, and the patient completely recovered. This secondary fever appeared to be due to absorption of some toxic agent in the exudation while undergoing resolution. The clinical chart in this case is given on p. 171. But it is with an acute pleurisy with effusion that pneumonia is most likely to be confounded, particularly in children. The onset of pleurisy may be sudden, with shivering, pain in the side,