PSORIASIS 339 the only drug which had a material effect on psoriasis, and was facile princeps. Of late years thyroid extract, salicin and its derivatives, and iodide of potassium in heroic doses have come in as valuable aids in the treatment of this often obstinate disease. Their indications and limita- tions are as follows :— Arsenic.—While arsenic has an indubitable influence on the eruption, in many cases it must be confessed that it very often fails, and sometimes aggravates the eruption, both as regards itching and the evolution of fresh patches. In many cases the drug must be given in large doses and for a long period before any beneficial effect can be obtained. It has no prophylactic effect. As regards the eruption, arsenic should not be given in the acutely inflammatory form, nor whenever the patches are very hypersemic, show a great tendency to spread at the margin, or when new lesions are coming out rapidly. Its most favourable effects are seen when the hyperaemia is moderate and the disease is stationary, or where there are only a few chronic patches. As regards the patient, many are intolerant of it even in small doses, but while young people with good digestive organs can generally take fairly large doses for some time without con- spicuous ill-effects, it should not be given to persons with an irritable gastro-intestinal mucous membrane, or with defective powers of elimina- tion. It may be given either in a solid or liquid form by the mouth, and rarely by subcutaneous injection. When the solid form is chosen the Asiatic pill is the favourite mode in Germany. R Arsenious acid, grs. 8|; powdered black pepper, grs. 67|; gum Arabic and water sufficient to make a mass which is divided into 100 pills, each containing j-Vth of a grain. From one to three pills three times a day are given, in Germany, before meals, but it is much less likely to upset the stomach if taken after meals; if there is not a decided effect after 500 pills, arsenic may be considered to have failed. In England arsenite of potash in the form of Fowler's solution is usually chosen ; it has the advantage of being dilutable to any extent, and therefore less likely to upset the stomach; it contains 1 grain of arsenious acid in 110 minims, and the average dose is rriv. three times a day^ but it is best to begin with rriiij. and gradually increase it to mx., according to the patient's tolerance. It should be given after meals and diluted with at least two ounces of water, and is often best combined with a bitter, such as tincture of hop, tTlxx. If the patient can bear it, it may have to be taken for three months before striking benefit is observed; but it often has to be given up long before this, from its irritant effects on the gastro-intestinal canal, prodvicing dyspepsia, griping, and diarrhoea, or from its producing other toxic effects, of which pricking of the conjunctiva and puffiness of the eyelids and a coated tongue are among the earliest symptoms, and should indicate a diminished dose, if not an actual withdrawal of the drug. The site of the patches is more deeply and persistently pigmented than usual in cases treated by arsenic. Patients who take arsenic for a long period become generally pigmented, while kera- tosic and warty thickenings develop on the palms and soles, but only in a few would such symp- toms arise unless the dose was large or long continued. Epithelioma may develop on the warty thickenings many years after the arsenic has been left off, in one of the author's cases over forty years after. Cacodylate of soda, a compound of organic arsenic, has recently been recommended as an improved means of giving arsenic in much larger doses than usual. One grain of the salt is said to be equivalent to ~ of a grain of arsenious acid or 60 minims of Fowler's solution. Half a grain is the initial dose recommended, and it is said that as much as 3 grains a day may be taken with safety. The author, however, does not consider it a safe drug, and if given at all, of a grain three times a day is enough to begin with. Thyroid extract as a treatment for psoriasis was introduced by Byrom Bramwell. While it has come short of what it was announced to be at first, in a moderate proportion of cases it acts most beneficially and more rapidly than anything else. It is, however, a remedy which should be given with care and under close medical supervision. It should not be given to old people or to those who have weak hearts. As regards the psoriasis, it should not be given at the onset of the disease, nor whenever the eruption is undergoing development, as it often then spreads rapidly under thyroid influence. It is most likely to be of service in the same class of cases which are indicated for arsenic, but would not be worth trying unless the eruption was extensive. The most convenient form is the five-grain tabloid ; only one a day should be given for the first week, then two a day, and if the patient is tolerant, in about ten days the dose may be raised to three tabloids a day. It is seldom necessary to go beyond this, and unless the patient is in bed and under supervision is not safe. Headache and a pulse over 120 should be the signal to reduce the dose or stop the thyroid extract altogether. If after a month there is not decided impi-ovement the case is probably not suitable for the treatment, lodothyrin and thyroidin are also given in smaller doses, but it is better to give the entire gland product.