390 PULSE, THE elastic, and the button can then be adjusted over the artery to a nicety. Both practice and judgment are necessary to enable one to apply just the requisite degree of pressure to the spring of the sphygmograph to ob- tain a maximal swing of the needle, for if the pres- sure be too great the tracing will not be a reliable one. The pressure is applied to the artery after the instrument has been tied on to the wrist; and by watching the movement of the needle, one is able, after some experience, to judge when the swing appears to be greatest, and whether the button is lying accurately over the vessel. It is impossible to gauge the amount of pres- sure exerted by the button of the sphygmo- graph on the underlying artery and the tissues surrounding it, but this is not essential for our purpose. When the swing of the needle is maximal, it shows that the pressure which we have applied to the artery by means of the screw is the proper amount for the case under examination. A¥e do not expect the reading on the dial to give any indication of the actual blood pressure. But here it may be said that, after some experience in the use of the instrument, it is sometimes possible to judge in a general way of the blood pressure by observing the manner in which the writing needle responds to the turn- ing of the screws Thus, in recording a pulse where the blood pressure is undoubtedly high— e.g. acute nephritis—the needle will not begin to swing freely until considerable pressure is made on the spring by turning the screw to three or four ounces on the dial, and then the maximal swing may be obtained over a con- siderable range of pressure. Again, in a markedly soft pulse a good swing of the needle may be obtained after a very slight turn of the screw, and its excursion will noticeably diminish when too great pressure is applied in this way. The pressure applied to tlie artery by the spring of the sphygmograph, in taking tracings from children under a year of age, need seldom exceed two ounces, and in new-born infants the index must often register the smallest possible degree of pressure, as even this is sometimes too great for the strength of the pulse-wave, and an incorrect tracing is obtained. To get the best results, even the smoking of the papers is a matter of some importance, for if they are smoked too thickly the smaller elevations in the sphygmogram will not come out distinctly. They should be put into the tin holder and smoked lightly and evenly over a piece of burning camphor or an untrimmed oil- lamp.i The writer may here draw attention to a small time-marker which he has attached to the Dudgeon's sphygmograph. A record of time is sometimes very important, and it is inadvisable 1 White spirit-varnish (shellac dissolved in spirit) may be recommended to fix the smoked papers. to add anything to the bulk of the instrument if it can be avoided, especially when it is to be used in children. Von Jacquet's sphygmograph has a separate clockwork box to drive the time- marker, and it is a large heavy instrument. In the writer's arrangement the chronograph is worked from the large cog-wheel of the mechan- ism which drives the paper roller, and each tooth of the cog-wheel makes a division in the tracing which is approximately equal to one- fifth of a second.! It is important to wind up the clockwork after each tracing is made, and also to make sure that the paper is being driven at a uniform speed. The Arterial Blood Pressure Definition.—The vascular system is over-filled, for were it not distended it could not contain all the blood. Thus the blood is lying in the vessels at some pressure, as is seen by the spurt which occurs when an artery is cut. The heart —one of the factors in the blood pressure— keeps up the over-filling of the vessels, and the resistance to the outflow of blood through the arterioles and capillaries determines the extent to which this over-filling occurs. When an artery is compressed by the finger the state of distension of the vessel is appreci- ated ; the resistance to compression, therefore, represents the blood pressure, and the height of the arterial pressure is determined largely by the ease with which the arterial over-filling is run off" by the capillaries, that is, by the peri- pheral resistance. This is the other main factor in the blood pressure, and any variation in one or other of these factors may alter the pressure very considerably. Relation to Ventricular Contraction.—The relation of increased heart force to blood pressure is not a simple one. When the ven- tricle contracts more powerfully the pressure is not always increased, for the heart's beat is always maximimi; that is to say, the ventricles cannot, by contracting more forcibly, pvunp out more blood than they get from the auricles. The action of the auricles—"the feed-pumps of the ventricles "—is also important in relation to blood pressure, and great alterations may be produced by changes affecting the auricles alone. Increased work of the heart, however, without a coincident dilatation of the peripheral vessels, leads to a higher blood pressure. Relation to Peripheral Resistance.—Changes in the peripheral resistance influence the height of the blood pressure enormously, and it is the state of contraction of the arterioles which mainly controls the extent of the resistance. Constriction or dilatation of the arterioles, de- pendent upon impulses through the vaso-motor 1 This time-marker is fitted to the sphygmograph by Mr. \V. M'Gregor, watchmaker, Castle Street, Edin- burgh.