PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—AFFECTIONS OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS 267 other inconveniences may arise from the pres- sure of the enlarging uterus, but these diminish when the organ rises above the brim ; incarcera- tion in this position does not occur. Some degree of flexion is almost always present in cases of version, but it is the latter only that endangers the pregnancy, as is shown by the relief obtained by correcting the version, whilst the flexion is left, and in fact cannot be treated. Pendulous Abdomen. — Anteversion of the Uterus in the Later Months of Gestation.—In the earlier months of gestation anteversion, as bafore stated, causes no difficulty; it is in the later months the condition becomes of import- ance, and is then more graphically termed and better known as pendulous abdomen. It is in general due to relaxation of the abdominal walls owing to previous pregnancy, and is certain to be present when separation of the recti muscles has occurred either from child-bearing or after coeliotomy. It may, however, be present in a primigravida, and is then suggestive of narrow- ing or other deformity of the pelvis. The course of pregnancy is not disturbed thereby, but difficulties and even grave compli- cations in labour are liable to arise from the resultant of the uterine forces deviating con- siderably from the line of the axis of the inlet. Tardy dilatation of the os uteri, malposition of the head, the presenting part refusing to enter the brim, consequent exhaustion of the uterus from ineff'ectual action, and even rupture of the uterus may occur. Placing the patient on her back, elevating the uterus, and applying a binder, is the proper treatment. Retroversion of Gravid Uterus.—Although retroversion may at times be the cause of sterility, it is no certain barrier to impregna- tion. With the natural growth and elevation of the uterus, the displacement is often undone, and the pregnancy is not interrupted. But this is not always the case; abortions are frequent and often repeated when the iiterus is retro- verted. This can readily be understood; for the mucosa and blood-vessels of such an organ are not likely to be healthy, or, if previously healthy, the uterine circulation is so impeded that hsemorrhage is very liable to occur. The usual pelvic symptoms—discomfort, ful- ness, weight, dragging, or pain—gradually in- crease, relieved by lying down. Amenorrhoea and other signs of pregnancy are present, but obscured, it may be, by slight shows of blood at intervals. Bimanual examination reveals the readily recognisable signs of retroversion. It is never safe to trust to the natural pro- cess of righting the position. In uncomplicated cases during the first three months the version can often be corrected manually, without diffi- culty, and a Hodge or ring pessary carefully fitted. Examination must be made from time to time to ascertain that the pessary has not got displaced. It is unnecessary to persist in attempts to get the uterus into the theoretical " normal" position : all that is necessary is to secure, if possible, that the fundus is on the same or a higher level than the cervix; the body may still be retroposed; if the tendency to prolapse be corrected by a pessary, nature will do the rest. The patient should lie as much as possible in the semiprone position, and avoid the necessity of straining at stool by the regular use of saline aperients. Incarceration of the Gravid Uterus.—When a case of pregnant retroverted uterus has not received attention, and the natural growth and elevation has not corrected the version, more serious pressure symptoms arise, indicating in- carceration. They begin in the third or early in the fourth month, when the increasing bulk of the uterus becomes too great for the pelvis. This is more likely to happen when a marked degree of prolapse has been associated with the version, or a projecting promontory narrows the inlet. The patient, who previously has com- plained of the frequency of micturition, may find herself unable to pass water. The com- plete retention may come suddenly, or after several successful efforts. The bladder becomes distended; there is acvite hypogastric pain, paroxysmal in character. The nature of the case may be overlooked from the patient stating she has been constantly passing water—the dribbling of an overfilled bladder. General dis- tension of the abdomen, with tenderness on pres- sure and vomiting, may further obscure the case. When unrelieved, serious complications have occurred: cystitis, sloughing of the mucous membrane, and gangrene of the muscular coat of the bladder, distension of the ureters and kidneys, with consequent uraemia or septicaemia, have all been recorded. The Diagnosis.—Given the history of a pos- sible pregnancy in the third or fourth month, urinary troubles, a central abdominal tumour which the use of the catheter has demonstrated to have been a distended bladder; per vaginam, the pelvis occupied by a rounded spherical tumour which may vary in consistence, and the cervix high up in the front, lying against and looking towards or above the symphysis—the diagnosis should not be difficult. Differential Diagnosis. — Nevertheless, the same effects may arise under different circum- stances. A tumour similar in size, shape, and position, and causing retention of urine, may be formed by the sac of an extra-uterine pregnancy, or the haemorrhage due to a tubal abortion, by a retropubic abscess, or by a small ovarian cyst distending the pouch of Douglas. In the first two cases there will be some evidence of pregnancy, and the differential diagnosis is mainly dependent upon careful bimanual ex- amination. When the tumour is outside the body of the uterus the latter is pushed bodily