196 POST-MORTEM METHODS inequality of the pupils.—These are usually of medium size, and equal.—Note the presence of eruptions on the face and around the mouth. Note escape of blood or discharges from the nose, mouth, or ears. Bleeding from the ears is usually present in fracture of the base of the skull. If the blood come from the nose or mouth it may signify rupture of an aneurysm into the air passages or oesophagus; htemor- rhage into the stomach; hsemorrhage from the mucous membrane of the nose, nasopharynx, or mouth ; or, fracture of the base of the skull. Discharge of pus from the ear would draw attention to the condition of the middle ear and mastoid cells, and suggest the possibility of secondary intra-cranial suppuration. Passing from the head to the tnmik and ex- tremities, one has to note the presence of wounds and scars, with their probable date, oedema of the surface, congenital marks and malforma- tions, discolorations, disfigurations from accident or otherwise. Discolorations may be of the following varieties: tattoo marks; pigmentation in con- nection with chronic ulcers, or the result of the occupation of the deceased; bruises and ecchy- moses ; hypostatic lividity ; and discolorations due to decomposition. The last three are of importance. Ante-mortem bruising is distinguished by a permanent discoloration which cannot be re- moved by pressure. If the part be incised the blood is seen to have escaped from the vessels, and to lie in the surrounding tissues. Post-mortem lividity is a reddish or purplish discoloration occurring usually in dependent parts of the body, for example in the skin of the back when the body is lying with the face upwards. Over bony points the skin is com- pressed and lividity is absent, and it can be removed from other parts by pressure. It is caused by the blood-serum containing dissolved blood-pigment soaking out from the vessels into the surrounding tissues. As a general rule lividity is greatest in cases where the blood remains fluid, for example, in pronounced septic cases, or in cases of asphyxia due to accident or resultant on other diseases. In septicaemia and other morbid conditions in which there has been breaking down of the blood corpuscles setting free the pigment, the lividity may be general, and the superficial veins are distinctly mapped out, forming a close purplish network. In ordinary cases, after twenty-four to thirty- six hours, signs of decomposition appear over the abdomen as a greenish discoloration of the skin. This is due to the action of sulphuretted hydro- gen and ammonium sulphide upon iron com- pounds, black sulphides being produced in the subc utaneous tissues. This discoloration appears earlier over the site of suppurations in the tissues or cavities of the body. The surface of the abdomen in women who have borne children, or in great distension from other causes, and that of the thighs and mammse in fat women, may show nvimerous small silvery scars — "striae gravidarum" or "lineae albi- cantes"—due to stretching of the skin. Enlarged glands in the neck, axilla, or groin may be felt readily through the skin. In rickets in children the " rickety rosary," formed by thickening at the costo-chondral articulations, is readily made out, and at the same time the ends of the long bones are en- larged from the excessive proliferation of the cartilage cells at the epiphyses. Examination of the Body Cavities The Thorax and Abdomen are usually ex- amined before the Head. To open them a median incision is made through the skin and superficial structures from the cricoid cartilage to the symphysis pubis, passing to one side of the umbilicus. The knife must be held with a full grip—never as one holds a pen—and the arm kept rigid, the movement being at the shoulder rather than at the wrist or elbow, and the cut being made with the belly of the knife. After making this preliminary incision dissect down carefully in the epigastrium until on cutting through the peritoneum the liver comes into view ; then, inserting two fingers of the left hand downwards into the abdomen along the line of the skin incision, draw the abdominal wall upwards and cut downwards between the fingers, opening up the cavity completely. If more room be required below, cut across the insertions of the recti abdominales from the peritoneal aspect. Take hold in turn of the edges of this incision, and, pulling the flaps outwards, with bold sweeps of the knife reflect the whole of the superficial soft parts from the thoracic walls and costal margins as far as the nipple lines. On first opening the peritoneum gas may escape from the cavity, indicating perforation of the intestine; escape of large quantities of fluid points to ascites. Note oedema of the subcutaneous tissue, and any morbid change in the muscles—pallor, fatty or hyaline degeneration. Note the position and relationships of the abdominal contents; the height of the diaphragm —normally on a level with the fourth right and the fifth left ribs; the relationship of the edge of the liver to the costal mai'gin, crossing it nor- mally in the nipple line at the level of the ninth right costal cartilage. This relationship may be altered by change in the size of the liver, or by alteration in the height of the diaphragm caused by increase or decrease in the volume of the thoracic or abdominal contents. Note any irregularity of the surface of the liver caused by cirrhosis, syphilitic cicatrices, or tumour-growth. Passing downwards, note the extent of stomach wall visible, the amount normally visible not