POST-MORTEM METHODS 195 tinct. iodi. B.P., and a moist carbolic dressing applied. Immediate treatment often prevents grave consequences. During the course of the operation keep the hands moist by an occasional dip into cold water, to which 1 per cent lysol, or 1-2000 cor- rosive sublimate may be added. Blood and dis- charges must never be allowed to dry on the skin. On completion of the sectio, wash the hands thoroughly in cold water, preferably under a tap, using a nail-brush to remove all blood or discharges; secondly, in cold water with soap; then in hot water with soap. Finally, soak in 1*20 carbolic acid, 2 per cent lysol, or 1*1000 corrosive sublimate solutions, and wipe dry. To deodorise the hands the best medium is a weak solution of " Sanitas " in water. Operative and Technical.—In all post-mortem examinations system and cleanliness must be insisted on. If possible, secure good light, preferably day- light. In making incisions, always cut away from, never towards, the other hand, or the hands of an assistant, and in laying down a knife place it at some distance. As a rule make long sweeping cuts with the belly of the knife, drawing it through, rather than pressing it into the tissues. Use sharp knives. Blunt knives are danger- ous, as more force is required, and this is apt to make the knife slip, with the attendant dangers. If an organ is worth preserving make as few incisions into it as possible, consonant with the attainment of the desired information. If a bacteriological examination be necessary, inoculations should be made at once into suit- able media, or the organ conveyed whole to the laboratory, so that its investigation may begin as soon as possible. Instruments and Accessories required Knives :— One strong "cartilage" knife, for making the skin incision, and cutting through the costal cartilages. One or more strong scalpels. One curved, prob-pointed bistoury. One long amputation or "brain" knife for making sections of organs. Bowel scissors. Sharp pointed scissors. In place of the two last, one pair of scissors may be used, with blades two to three inches long, one probe pointed, the other sharp. A strong saw ; cutting bone-forceps; strong dissecting forceps; chisel and mallet. Two strong needles curved in half their length. Sti-ong thin cord or " Dutch " twine. The above are essentials, and they or their equivalents are to be found in the armament- arium of every practitioner. The following may be added :— Lion forceps; syringe with fine nozzle; measure glass; cones for measuring the diameters of orifices; measuring tape or foot-rule ; balance and set of weights. Method op performing a Post-mortem Ex- amination.—The following description applies to cases in which the whole body is to be ex- amined. Frequently the examination is only partial, as necessitated by the requirements of diagnosis or the wishes of the relatives. After laying out the instruments likely to be required, and, if in private, disposing sheets or newspapers so as to catch any blood or dis- charges, the first thing to be done, after noting the name, age, date of death and post-mortem, is to make an external examination. External Examination In special cases measure the length of the body and its girth at the shoulders. It is seldom necessary to weigh the body. Note muscular development and state of nutrition. Rigor mortis.—It is well at this stage to ascertain the presence and extent of rigor mortis, as subsequent movement of the body may abolish it in the neck and limbs. Rigor mortis is a certain sign of death, and is caused by the coagulation of the myosin of the muscle fibres. Under ordinary circum- stances it appears about five or six hours after death in the muscles of the head and neck, extending later to the trunk, then to the upper and lower extremities. When decomposition commences it passes olf in the same order, from above downwards. Its onset and duration depend on several factors, such as temperature of the air, cause of death, and age of the individual. In dry cold weather its duration is greater, the decomposition which abolishes it being delayed. After exhausting illnesses, and those in which numerous convulsive muscular contractions have occurred, its onset is earlier than usual, and its duration short. It begins earlier and passes off sooner in the young than in the well-developed adult. It is often slight after death from sepsis, and passes off early. It is practically never absent, though it may be almost imperceptible, for example, in puny, emaciated infants. Examine the surface of the body from the head downwards to the feet. Examine the scalp for cuts, bruises, and prominences, such as wens or tumour-growth. Note the condition of the eyes as to promin- ence; subconjunctival htemorrhage, pointing to fracture of the bones forming the orbital cavity :