RECTUM, DISEASES OF THE 481 of which is beyond control, in the interior of a vascular tumour not cut off from the general circulation. The cautery must be used only in the case of a capillary pile; the point is to be freely applied all over the bleeding area, but not to penetrate deeply the wall of the bowel. There is no advantage in employing a galvanic cautery. Paquelin's is simple and preferable. (6) Removal by clamp and scissors, bleeding being arrested by the heated iron. This " clamp and cautery " operation is six times as dangerous as the ligature, leaves great pain, and a greater likelihood of secondary hcemorrhage, and there is more often troublesome subsequent con- traction. (7) Dilation of the Sphincter Muscles.—In some cases when the piles on protrusion are tightly gripped by the sphincters, become swollen, and perhaps bleed freely, speedy relief and even a cure may result from mere dilatation of the sphincters, gently but fully carried out. The method is of little value in other cases unless the haemorrhoids have existed only a short time. The operation of dilatation is of great use for the mere relief of pain in cases where for any reason a more radical proceeding is to be avoided. (8) Treatment by Crushing.—This method is better than the " clamp and cautery." It may be used when the piles are small and not more than three. It should not be used for inflamed piles nor in cases of ansemia. The author's screw-crusher is recommended as giving less chance of recurrent haemorrhage, and details of the operation are given in his larger work. The operation is safe in chosen cases, but is rarely to be preferred to the ligature. (9) Whitehead's Operation. — Theoretically, this proceeding, which is based upon complete removal of the pile-bearing area, is excellent. Practically it is unnecessarily extensive, and one of the worst operations for piles. Moreover, recurrence is more likely after this than after operation by the ligature, and the proceeding requires about six times as long as the latter. Three evil results that have frequently followed this operation confirm our opinion against it— (a) Anal stricture. (b) Loss of sensation in and power over the anus. (c) The mucous membrane, stitched down to the skin around the anus, adheres outside it. The mucous membrane is exposed to irritation, discharges mucus, and bleeds. We do not give a detailed account of the operation, because its performance is not recommended. In those very rare cases in which the entire circumference of the rectum is to be excised for piles, Mr. Thelwall Thomas's modification of Whitehead's operation is the quickest and safest operation. The chief point is in the method of suturing the bases of the piles, for descrip- VOL. VIII tion of which the reader is referred to a larger work on the subject. (10) Operation by Ligature. — This is, as above stated, in our opinion the safest and best operation for the great majority of cases of haemorrhoids. It is begun by complete dilata- tion of the sphincters. The haemorrhoids are drawn down one by one, and with sharp scissors separated from their connection with the muscu- lar and submucous tissues. The cut is made in the white sulcus where skin and mucous membrane meet, and carried up the bowel parallel to its axis till the pile is left connected by an isthmus of vessels and mucous membrane only. As the larger vessels come from above and enter the pile just beneath the mucous membrane they are unaffected by this incision. A strong silk ligature is placed in the deep groove now made and tightly tied with three knots, while the assistant draws the pile well out. If the pile be very large a portion may be cut off, enough being left to guard against the slipping of the ligature. A strip of wool saturated with iodoform ointment is passed into the bowel, and a pad of wool over the anus firmly secured by a tight T-bandage. It is most important when there are many piles, that the base of the ligature should be as narrow as is consistent with non-division of the chief arterial supply ; otherwise too great a narrowing of the rectum is produced. In 5000 cases of this operation we have had only 5 fatal results. Other surgeons show an equally satisfactory experience of the procedure. After-treatment.—The bowels should be con- fined for three days. A hypodermic injection of morphia is given just after operation, and repeated if necessary for pain during the first twenty-four hours. In very bad cases and in delicate persons the bowels should not be allowed to act for even four days or more. Diet should be light and such as leaves little residue. There must be no alcohol, and complete rest in bed. When retention of urine occurs the patient should kneel in bed with warm flannels over the pubes. After twenty-four hours the pad of wool is changed, and the strip inside the bowel removed after forty-eight. A pad soaked in sanitas is then kept applied. On the third night, Pil. hydrarg. gr. ij., Pil. col. c. hyoscy. gr. viij., are administered. When the bowels act the patient, unless ansemic or ill, may get out of bed. There is often pain and a little blood with the first motion. If there is much straining the bowel is to be examined for the presence of hard faeces, which must be broken up with the finger, an enema of warm gruel and olive oil being then given. After the first action of the bowels fomentation is to be applied. A daily action by suitable mild laxatives is now to be secured. The wounds are dressed daily with antiseptic lotions or ointments suitable to the condition 31