438 PUPIL, THE pupils are dilated, and often unequal or sluggish to light in alcoholic insanity. Cerebral haemor- rhage may produce inequality of the pupils, that on the side of the haemorrhage being more often slightly dilated, especially if the bleeding has extended into the lateral and third ventricles. Hsemorrhage in the pons is frequently accom- panied by minute contraction of the pupils, from irritation of the third nuclei, but this is not invariably present, and it is difficult to draw any precise deductions from the condition of the pupils in cerebral haemorrhage, so variable are the effects. In cerebral tumour no alteration in the pupil will be seen unless there is pressure on the third nerve, when moderate dilatation and loss of reflex action will accompany the ptosis and divergent strabismus charactei-istic of paralysis of this nerve. Third nerve palsy from either nerve or nuclear lesion is common in tabes, and may be either partial or complete. When the ptosis and muscular impairment are only slight, the pupil reaction to light should not be completely lost, but if this is so, it will indicate the additional presence of the Argyll- Robertson pupil, which will often confirm an otherwise doubtful diagnosis of tabes in a case presenting itself for an incomplete paralysis of the third nerve. Fifth nerve palsy might be expected to be frequently associated with small pupil on the same side from involvement of the sympathetic fibres passing over the Gasserian ganglion, yet this is quite the exception, and I have only seen this association twice. Pupillary Membrane.— A trans- parent, vascidar membrane which closes the pupil in early foetal life; it may i-emain in part as a malformation in the form of fibres, tags, or loops {persistent pibpillary membrane). See Iris and Ciliary Bodies {Congenital Abnor- malities of the Iris). PupiloSCOpy. See Retinoscopy. Purg^atives. *S'ee Cathartics; Constipa- tion ; Pharmacology ; etc. Purg'en.—An aperient drug, being chemi- cally phenolphthalein, given in doses of from 1 to 5 grains ; aperione. See Prescribing. Purification. See Ventilation and Warming {Purification of Air); Water {Puri- fication). Purin Bodies. See Physiology, Ex- cretion {Urine, Non-Urea Nitrogen, Diureides). See also Liver, Physiology of {Regulation of Supply of Proteids, Uric Acid, Xanthin, etc.); Uric Acid {Chemical Characters, Purin Ring). Purkinje's Ceils. See Physiology, Neuro-muscular Mechanism {Cerebellum, Sti'ucture). Purkinje's Fibres.—Peculiar muscular fibres showing incomplete striation, found in the sub-endocardial tissue of the heart in some of the lower animals, in the human subject in early infancy and occasionally in the adult. Purkinje's Fig^ures or imagoes. See Physiology, Neuro-muscular Mechanism (Vision, Stimulation of Retina). Puroform.—An antiseptic said to con- sist of zinc and formic aldehyde with thymol, menthol, and eucalyptol. Purple, Visual. — Rhodopsin. See Colour Vision {Physiological Considerations). Purpura. Definition .... . 438 Character of the Cutaneous H^MOR- RHAGE .... . 439 Etiology and Pathology . 439 A. Symptomatic Purpura . 440 B. Purpura— Simple Purpura . 441 Werlhofs Purpura . . 441 Arthritic Purpura . . 442 Henoch's Purpura . 443 Febrile Purpura . 443 Morbid Anatomy . . 444 Treatment .... . 444 See also Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth Hcemorrhage into the Labyrinth, Meniere's Dis- ease) ; Colon, Diseases of {Hcemorrhagic Colitis in Purpura); H/ematemesis {Diagnosis); He- mophilia {Diagnosis); Leucocytosis {Leucopenia in Purp^m-a); Meninges of the Cerebrum (Vascular Disturbances, HtEmorrhage, Symp- toms) ; Obesity {Purpura in Adiposis Dolorosa); Pregnancy, Affections and Complications {Blood Changes, Piirpura Hoemorrhagica); Rheu- matism in Children {Symptoms, Skin Affections, Pmpura); Skin, Bacteriology op {Purpura); Smallpox {Purpura Variolosa); Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequelae, Cutaneous, Pur- pura) ; Typhus Fever {Diagnosis, Purpura). Definition.—The essential point in purpura is the occurrence of extravasations of blood into the skin, which are spontaneous and not due to injury. Strictly speaking, purpura is in all cases merely a symptom. In many instances the disease of which it is a symptom is fairly well known, and a great class of " symptomatic " purpura is therefore described. But in certain instances, more especially where haemorrhage from mucous surfaces is associated with the cutaneous extravasation, the conditions upon which the haemorrhage depends are unknown, and in default of such knowledge the term "purpura" is borrowed from the one striking symptom, and is used to designate "a disease" with the addition of various distinguishing adjectives.