547 RHEUMATISM, ACUTE cases, though they resemble rheumatic fever in their varied manifestations, are, in the character of the changes in the joint, more akin to rheu- matoid arthritis. The prognosis in hyperpyrexia is very grave, but the prompt treatment by cold baths has made it far more favourable than it used to be. The Treatment of Rheumatic Fever Although there is no method of treatment which is generally recognised as specific, it is a disease which skill and care can do much to alleviate. The tendency that there is to natural recovery makes it especially difficult to ascertain the amount of improvement that directly results from treatment by drugs, and as a result many different remedies have been used and later abandoned. There seems little doubt that some manifestations respond to treatment better than others, and that of these arthritis is the most, and carditis the least, amenable. Ex- perience has shown also that depleting measures, such as free venesection and hard purging, are out of place in the management of rheumatic fever. Prophylaxis.—It is only within recent years that the great importance of the early warnings of rheumatic fever have been insisted upon, and the prophylactic treatment can hardly yet be said to have developed. The search for suit- able climates for rheumatic children, for the paths of infection, and for the methods by which infection may be avoided, will very probably lead to good results. And the influence of bad sanitation on the occurrence of rheumatic fever seems especially worthy of attention. Treatment op an Attack of Rheumatic Fever.—General Measures.—-Rest in bed is the remedy that at present stands first, and has been insisted upon by all the greatest teachers upon the treatment of the disease. Strong nurses are required when the patient is an adult, for the pain on movement causes complete helplessness, and the ineffectual efforts of a nurse, however skilful, who is physically unable to lift the patient properly, is an ad- ditional cause of suffering. The bed should be strong and firm, the height a convenient one, and the breadth not so great as to make the patient difficult to move from either side. On account of the profuse sweating he should lie between blankets, and these can now be obtained of such softness as to be suitable for the more delicate skins. Lastly, the bed-gown should be of flannel, and by means of suitable tapes should allow of an inflamed joint being easily reached. When the sweating is very profuse, occasional gentle drying with a soft warm towel is grateful, and helps to diminish the unpleasant odour which is so frequently noticed. Local Treatment.—Hot dry wool is a very useful routine application, and plenty of this should be gently bandaged around the joints, or, if wool cannot be obtained, firje sand or salt baked until dry and placed in suitable bags make good alternatives. Opium and belladonna liniment, warm alka- line lotions, and hot fomentations can be used, though the aim should be, as far as possible, to avoid frequently disturbing the limb. When the pain in one joint is excessive, plaster splints are useful for keeping the limb absolutely at rest. Cold applications are not so generally useful, and though blisters or a light touch with the cautery are of great service in chronic arthritis, these are not so suitable when many joints are affected with acute inflammation. When the joints remain stiff, weak, and painful after an acute attack, gentle massage, dry heat, and hydropathy are indicated, and the compound mustard liniment, though un- pleasant, is a useful aid in relieving pain when the more expensive methods are out of the question. _Oiet.—The diet during an acute attack should be light and nourishing, milk diluted with a mineral water or barley water, light soups, and later farinaceous foods, given at regular in- tervals. Sti'ong soups, and the many patent meat preparations, although they are stimulat- ing, throw a strain upon the kidneys which in acute rheumatic fever is better avoided. When the attack is less acute the diet need not be so rigid. It is difficult to explain the reasons for the strong objection there is to the use of animal foods in rheumatism, but physicians of wide experience have insisted that relapses are favoured by their use, and that they have had cause to regret a concession to the patient upon this point. Much probably depends upon the character of the attack, and there can be little doubt that in the protracted and asthenic type in which the temperature is but little raised, a generous diet is better than a restricted one. If, on the other hand, in a strong adult the diet has been limited, the return to meat and ordinary meals must be gradual, for the diges- tion is considerably impaired by the disease. The use of alcohol is not required unless there are indications of cardiac failure, and the physician will then be guided by such indica- tions as hold good in the treatment of diseases of the heart. Treatment by Drugs.—The Salts of Salicylic Acid and Salicin.—These drugs are very widely used, especially in the treatment of the arthritic type of rheumatic fever. First introduced by Dr. Maclagan into Eng- land, they have undoubtedly proved of great value, and have relieved an immense amount of suffering; under their influence the pain of the arthritis is rapidly eased, and the tempera-