567 RHEUMATISM—RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS Garrod states that he has never seen them in true gout, and they have little in common with any other known result of gout. Still has twice seen similar nodosities in chil- dren with congenital syphilis. It is noteworthy that Bouchard quotes the diseases associated with Heberden's nodes in 1000 cases, and rheumatoid arthritis does not occur in this list. Much light is thrown upon the production of permanent changes in the joints of the elderly by the well-known writings of Arbuthnot Lane. He does not accept the view that the changes are due to disease, but believes them to be "produced mechanically and in obedience to simple general laws." It is difficult to trace to this cause the acute forms of rheumatoid arthri- tis—those associated with fever, with effusion into joints, and with the characteristic changes which are included in Schtiller's definition of arthritis chronica villosa. It is possible that a further classification will be adopted, and a distinction as regards pathology will be drawn between such cases as are included in Lane's description and the more acute generalised forms. Changes similar to those described by Lane are found in the lower animals, notably in old horses which have laboured heavily. Whether the acute form occurs in the lower animals is doubt- ful, and Bannatyne suggests that the failure of inoculation experiments may be due to the fact that the animals subjected to experiment were immune, and that rheumatoid arthritis as an acute affection does not occur in them. Morbid Anatomy. —The changes in the interior of a joint aff'ected by rheumatoid arthritis are as follows:— (a) The articular cartilage is affected early— some think it is the primary change—the surface loses its polish, becomes dull and velvety, owing to splitting of the matrix into fine vertical fibrillfe, and destruction and disappearance of cartilage cells. The change is most marked towards the centre of the cartilage, and may extend and deepen until in the central part its whole thickness is destroyed, and the head of the bone beneath laid bare. In addition to this disintegration a process of irregular formation takes place at the periphery of the articular cartilage, leading to the lipping or nodulation common in later stages. In these out-growths bone may afterwards be deposited and osteo- phytes formed. This over-growth is considered by Cornil and Ranvier to be due to the fact that the outer edge of the cartilage is overlapped by folds of synovial membrane, which prevent the escape of cartilage cells into the cavity of the joint. Probably, also, the mode in which pres- sure is transmitted through the joint determines the site of greatest destruction of cartilage—the cartilage being destroyed chiefly " at the point of greatest stress." In old-standing cases the articular cartilages may be absorbed, and even the inter-articular cartilages, in such joints as the knee, wrist, or jaw. (6) The bone beneath shows a thin layer of greatly increased density ; it is smooth, polished, and ivory-like (eburnated). Its surface may be more or less deeply furrowed by the steady friction of prominences on the opposite bone. The lipping and the position of osteophytes may more or less completely destroy the mobility of the joint, or alter its mechanism so as to render possible movements which could not be per- formed by the normal joint. The osteophytes themselves may be worn away or eburnated. The joint may be fixed by true bony anky- losis, which occurs in the spinal column. In affected joints where the cartilage is destroyed the articular surfaces have been described as united by bridges of cancellous bone easily broken down by slight pressure. Fibrous anky- losis of joints is not uncommon, but true bony ankylosis in the joints of the limbs is not the rule. It is only likely to occur in bed- ridden patients whose joints are at rest and much disorganised. If the head of the bone is sawn through it is seen to be of an unusually spongy consistence, and to contain a large proportion of oily matter, as if from a species of fatty degeneration. The condition of the synovial membrane is variously described. In a joint showing the above changes both the synovial membrane and the fibrous capsule of the joint will be greatly thickened, its fringes hypertrophied, and many will be seen to have undergone fatty changes, or to contain cartilaginous or osseous masses. These may become detached and form loose bodies in the joint. The bursse near joints may show marked thickening of their capsules, and form decided swellings, and may contain hard bodies in their cavities. This is common in the bursa over the olecranon (Fig. 4). Bursae may entirely disappear. In two shoulder joints from the same subject lately examined by the writer the subacromial bursse had entirely disappeared, and the head of the humerus articulated directly with the upper part of the glenoid fossa and with the acromion. The ligaments of the joint may become thickened or stretched and elon- gated. Tendons entering into the structure of the joint may be entirely or partially destroyed, such as the ligamentum teres of the hip, or the biceps tendon of the shoulder. The mus- cles about joints may find new attachments to capsule or ligaments rather than to bony points. This was the case in the shoulder joints already mentioned.^ Suppuration is of extreme rarity, though a few cases are on record, and in one remarkable case under the care of the writer a condition resembling pyaemia, with suppuration in many joints, supervened while the patient was under ^ For the opi)ortiinity of examining these joints the writer is indebted to Miss Stoney, M. D.