67 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES Analyses of gall bladder bile thus give no information as to the composition of the bile when formed. In several cases, where surgeons have produced biliary fistulte, opportunities have occurred of procuring the bile directly from the ducts during life in man. Such bile has a somewhat orange-brown colour, and is more or less viscous, but not nearly so viscous as bile taken from the gall bladder. It has a specific gravity of almost 1005, while gall bladder bile has a specific gravity of about 1030. Its reaction is slightly alkaline, and it has a characteristic smell. It contains about 2 per cent of solids, of which more than half are organic. Bile Salts.—The most abundant solids are the salts of the bile acids. In man the most important is sodium glycocholate. Sodium taurocholate occurs in small amounts. These salts are readily prepared from an alcoholic solution of dried bile by the addition of water- free ether, which makes them separate out as crystals. Glycocholic acid splits into glycin, amido-acetic acid—HgN.CHg.CO.OH, and a body of unknown constitution, cholalic acid, C24H40O5. Taurocholic acid yields amido-ethane-sulphuric acid or taurin, H2N.CH2CO.SO2OH—a molecule closely resembling amido-acetic acid linked to sulphuric acid and cholalic acid. Since both acids contain nitrogen they must be derived from proteins. That they are formed in the liver and not merely excreted by it, is shown by the fact that, while they accumulate in the blood if the bile duct is ligatured, they do not appear if the liver is excluded from the circulation. Action of Bile Salts.—(I) The bile salts are solvents of fats and fatty acids, and they thus assist in the digestion and absorption of fats. When bile is excluded from the intestines no less than 30 per cent of the fats of the food may escape absorption and appear in the fseces. When this is the case, as in jaundice from ob- struction of the bile duct, the fseces have a characteristic white or grey appearance from the abundance of fat. (2) These salts keep cholesterin in solution. (3) They lower the surface tension of solu- tions, and in this way they may bring the fat particles into more intimate contact with the mucous membrane. (4) While the salts have no action on proteins, free taurocholic acid precipitates native proteins and acid proteate. In the human intestine this is an action of no importance. (5) These salts are powerful htemolytic agents, and rapidly dissolve haemoglobin out of the erythrocytes. Bile Pig?nents.—These amount to only about 0'2 per cent of the bile. In human bile the chief pigment is an orange - brown, iron - free substance, bilirubin, CgjHggN^Og, while in the bile of herbivora, bilive?-din, a green pigment somewhat more oxidised than bilirubin, CgqHgg N^Og, is more abundant. By further oxidation with nitrous acid, other pigments—blue, red, and yellow — are produced, and this is used as a test for the presence of bile pigments (Gmelin's test). The pigments are closely allied to haemato- porphyrin and hfematoidin (see p. 6), and they are derived from hgemoglobin. Their amount is gi-eatly increased when haemoglobin is set free or injected into the blood. That they are formed in the liver is shown by the fact that, when the liver is excluded from the circulation, the injection of htemoglobin does not cause their formation. The liver has the property of excreting not only these pigments formed by itself, but also other pigments. Thus the liver of the dog can secrete the characteristic pigment of sheep's bile when this is injected into its blood. Cholesterin is a monatomic alcohol—CggH^j OH—which occurs free in small amounts in the bile. It is very insoluble and is kept in solu- tion by the salts of the bile acids. It readily crystallises in rhombic plates, generally with a notch out of the corner. On account of its insolubility, when it is in excess in the bile or when the bile salts are decreased, it may form concretions or biliary calculi — gall stones — which may accumulate in the gall bladder and may get caught in the bile passages, obstructing the flow of bile and leading to its absorption throughout the system. Jaundice is thus pro- duced. When these stones are forced along the bile passages as a result of muscular con- traction, intense agony—biliary colic—may be produced. When they are passed by the rectum, their nature is readily demonstrated by breaking them up in a mortar, dissolving in hot alcohol, and allowing the solution to cool, when the characteristic crystals separate out. The source of the cholesterin of the bile is not definitely known. It is not an excretion of cholesterin formed elsewhere, because the injection of cholesterin does not lead to an increase in the amount in the bile. According to Naunyn's observations it is most abundant in cases of inflammation of the bile passages, and he therefore thinks that it is formed by the bi'eaking down of the epithelium lining these ducts. Fats and Lecithin.—The true fats and the phosphorus containing lecithin are present in small amovmts in the bile, and apparently they are derived from the fats of the liver cells, and they may be increased in amount by the ad- ministration of fatty food. Nucleo-protein and Mucin. — The bile owes its viscosity to the presence of a mucin-like body, which, however, does not yield sugar on boiling with an acid and which contains phosphorus. It is precipitated by acetic acid,