EADIUM 465 ation of the radixxm from the barium and calcium chloride with which it is mixed is effected by a process of fractional crystallisation. In the successive stages of the isolation of the substance Mme. Curie made use of a suitable electroscope by which the ionisation of air by radio-active bodies could be detected. In this way she learned whether the radio-active sub- stance she sought was in the precipitate or in the filtrate after each chemical operation. Pure radium chloride is a white crystalline body with an atomic weight of 225. The amount present in different minerals bears a constant relation of 1 : 1,000,000 to the uranium which they con- tain. A ton of Joacbimsthal uraninite should yield about '17 gramme of radium. Here only the more important properties of radium can be mentioned. The whole question of radio-activity is extremely complicated, and for authoritative information concerning the latest theories it involves, reference should be made to Rutherford's Radio-active Transforma- tions (London, 1906). Radium has the peculi- arity of maintaining itself at a temperature of 2°-3° F. above the surrounding air; in other words, it gives off enough heat every hour to melt its own weight of ice, and goes on doing this indefinitely, without undergoing any appreciable change. It has the further power of ionising gases—that is, it converts the air between the terminals of an electric current into a conductor; this property is made use of in measuring radio-activity. It has, as a third peculiarity, the power of rendering certain fluorescent bodies luminous. It also induces temporary radio-activity in substances placed near it. This is due to an emanation of radio- active gaseous material which is deposited as a non-gaseous type of matter on all bodies in the neighbourhood. Thus the processes taking place are very complicated. " In a compound of radium there occurs a rapid expulsion of a and /3 particles, accompanied by the generation of y rays, a rapid emission of heat, the con- tinuous production of an emanation or gas, and the formation of an active deposit which gives rise to 'excited' activity" (Rutherford). The most feasible explanation of these phenomena is afforded by the "disintegration theory" of Rutherford and Soddy. " It is supposed that the atoms of the radio-active bodies are un- stable, and that a certain fixed proportion of them become unstable every second and break up with explosive violence, accompanied in general by the expulsion of an a or y8 particle or both together. The residue of the atom, in consequence of the loss of an a particle, is lighter than before, and becomes the atom of a new sub- stance quite distinct in chemical and physical properties from its parent." The radiations are divided iiito a, /3, and y ^ radiations, which agree in acting upon photo- graphic plates, in exciting phosphorescence, and VOL. VIII in discharging electrified bodies; they disagree in many important respects. The a rays consist of positively charged material particles about twice the size of a hydrogen atom projected at the rate of 20,000 miles a second ; they do not penetrate a plate of aluminium '05 mm. thick, and are slightly deflected in a magnetic field. The /S rays also consist of material particles; they are only yo'o^ of the size of the a par- ticles, are negatively charged with electricity, and are projected at the rate of 1,000,000 miles a second. They penetrate 5 mm. of aluminium, and are readily deflected in the magnetic field. The y rays are not material; their velocity is enormous, they can penetrate 50 cm. of aluminium, and are not deflected in the magnetic field. Rutherford and Soddy have shown that the a particles, if not identical with atoms of helium, are at least very closely related to that element. The /3 rays are iden- tical with the cathodal stream, and the y rays nearly resemble the penetrating X-rays pro- duced by a high vacuum tube. They are thus a type of wave-motion in the ether dependent on the expulsion of the ji particles. Bromide and chloride of radium emit very little emanation in a dry atmosphere. The emanation is stored up in the mass of the compound, but is released by heat or solution. Radium which has thus been freed from emana- tion suffers a diminution in its activity as measured by the a rays, but this loss is re- covered from as more emanation is produced and stored up in the mass. The emanation itself behaves like a heavy gas, but is not permanent and undergoes disintegration with the further expulsion of a particles and their deposit on surrounding bodies. The emana- tion is about 100,000 times as active as radium, and its transformation is accompanied by an enormous evolution of heat. It is " the concen- trated essence of the radio-activity of radium." A " tube containing the radium emanation . . . emits a, yS, and y rays, evolves heat, and pro- duces luminosity in many substances. Radium itself, freed from the emanation and the active deposit, emits only a rays " (Rutherford). Medical Uses of Radium.—On the whole, the medical uses of radium are not very dis- similar to those of the X-rays. Owing to its cost, and the small amount in which it is pro- curable, it is not practicable to employ it as a means of taking skiagrams, although experi- mentally the procedure is feasible enough. The same circumstances also militate against its general use in other ways. Physiological Effects.—Exposure to the radia- tions causes dermatitis, which may go on to intractable ulceration. A latent period of 8 or 10 days elapses before these effects are produced. Exposure to radium of 1,000,000 strength for 3 hours will cause dermatitis; for 10 hours, ulceration. When radium is brought 30