391 PULSE, THE nerves, will increase or decrease the pressure. The vessels of the arteriole and capillary fields may contract or dilate in sections from local and other causes. As Brunton has pointed out, there are three channels through which the blood finds its way from the arteries into the veins. There are the vessels of the skin, the vessels of the intestine, and the vessels of the muscles. Little attention has been paid, hither- to, to the vessels of the muscles in this connec- tion, but according to Brunton, the outflow through these is equivalent to that of the other two channels together. The important point with regard to the blood pressure is, that although the vessels of the skin and intestine are contracted, yet the peripheral resistance may not be much increased, and a higher blood pressure may not result; the blood still escapes freely through the vessels of the muscles. Vaso-constriction causes the left ventricle to contract more powerfully, and tends to slow the pulse; a slow pulse, therefore, generally indi- cates a higher blood pressure than a fast pulse. Dilatation of the vessels causes a quickening of the heart, and this, according to the researches of Mac William, is almost always due to the suspension of vagus activity; it is very doubt- ful whether the same result is ever dependent upon stimulation of the sympathetic. Relation to Arterial Walls.—From what has been already said it will be seen that the relation of the blood pressure to the state of the arterial walls is a very complex one. The radial pressure may be considerably nicreased both when the vessel walls are felt to be tightly contracted, and also when the artery is large and relaxed. In the one case there is a con- traction of the muscular coats of the arterioles and larger arteries from direct or indirect irri- tation of the vaso-motor centre. This condition is typically present in some cases of tubercular meningitis and cerebral tumour, and it may also be induced reflexly by severe abdominal pain, tympanites following a laparotomy, and profound shock. This kind of arterial spasm may sometimes be unilateral, in neuralgias, lead colic, etc. In the other case the radial blood pressure is raised by increased peripheral resist- ance mainly confined to the capillaries. The artery is then large, and the pulse may be full and bounding. Obstruction of the capillaries, due to various toxins in the blood, is the com- monest and most persistent cause of high blood pressure. Sometimes when the pulse feels small and weak, owing to involvement of the radial artery in the area of increased peripheral resistance, the blood pressure in this vessel may not be increased, and yet, as Oliver points out, it may be greatly raised in the central arteries. When the arterial walls ai-e thickened and sclerosed, the blood pressure is not always raised. The calibre of the vessel may be increased or diminished, but the blood pressure may, in either case, be high or low. In the young the elastic wall of the artery plays an important part in maintaining a good blood pressure, and as age advances the resiliency of the vessel is largely impaired. In very old people the contracted " field of response " of the heart is a factor which must be taken fully into account; for this reason a low blood pressure may be present when the radial artery is hard and cord-like. In forming an estimate of the blood pressure the important point to note is the conqn-essibility of the vessel—the force necessary to obliterate the pulse-wave. In advanced life the thickened condition of the radial walls may lead one to call the pulse one of " high tension," but, in some cases, from the ease with which the finger can obliterate the pulse, we judge the actual blood pressure to be low. Relation to Pulse-Rate.—Marey has shown that the blood pressure controls the rate of the heart's action—the pulse-rate varies inversely as the arterial pressure. In normal conditions high pressui'e in the vessels slows the pulse, and a low pressure quickens it, but sometimes the important factor in maintaining a good pressure in the arteries is the increased rate of the pulse. Thus in the infant the heart's action is exceed- ingly rapid, and only a small quantity of blood is thrown into the aorta by each ventricular contraction. The pulse at this age is of small volume, but it is one of relatively high pressure. At this age an adequate pressure is maintained by a series of rapid and weak systoles; in later life the same result is attained by slower and more powerful ventricular contractions. Relation to Volume of Blood i^i the Circulation. —The total volume of blood in the circulation is another important factor in the blood pressure, and every change by abstraction or addition alters the pressure. But the alterations pro- duced on the circulation by venesection or trans- fusion are of a very temporary kind. Haemor- rhage up to 2 per cent or 3 per cent of an animal's weight scarcely affects the blood pres- sure at all, but up to 4 per cent or 6 per cent of the body weight the pressure may temporarily fall to nearly zero. After severe htemorrhages an average pressure is soon restored by increased absorption of fluids from the tissues into the circulation, and though transfusion may raise the blood pressure for a time, and thus tide a patient over a period of great danger, the in- creased pressure is not maintained. In certain toxsemic conditions, indeed, where the blood pressure is abnormally high owing to exten- sive arterial spasm, as occurs in some cases of puerperal eclampsia, the writer has shown that one of the early effects of adding to the fluid in the circulation, by giving large saline infusions, is to lower the blood pressure re- markably (Figs. 4 and 5). This effect is prob- ably brought about by the dilution of a toxin.