164 PNEUMONIA—CLINICAL SECTION 1891, coincidently with the first epidemic or epidemics of influenza. Similarly among females the annual death-rate, which had been down to 740 in 1881, rose from 848 in 1889 to 1095 in 1890, and to 1165 in 1891. These figures show what a far-reaching effect influenzal pneumonia has upon the death-rate from "pneumonia" in the abstract. In 1898, out of a total of 82,404 deaths registered in Ireland, 3550 were referred to pneumonia—2074 in males, 1476 in females. That is to say, pneumonia was responsible for 4"2 per cent of all the deaths, and the death- rate due to it was equal to 1 in 1279'9, or 0'78 per thousand of the estimated population. Etiology.—Pneumonia, taking the term in its full acceptation, must be looked upon as an essential or specific febrile disease, strictly analogous to diphtheria, enteric fever, smallpox, or any other of the recognised infective diseases {Infectionshrankheiten). It is a microbic in- fection in which the lungs are the usual, though not the invariable, battle-ground. In 1899 J. Pelnar reported two cases of pneumococcus sepsis without pneumonia. The first was in an infant three months old, presenting fever and convulsions. The child died, and at the autopsy gastro - enteritis, purulent meningitis of the convexity, and purulent rhinitis were found, cultures from the meningeal pus and the spleen giving the Fraenkel-Weichselbaum diplococcus. The second case was that of a woman, aged 22 years, in the puerperium. There was an uncertain diagnosis of scarlet fever with phleg- monous tonsillitis, followed by sepsis and lepto- meningitis, cultures from the spleen and from the tonsillar and meningeal pus yielding the pneumococcus. Pneumonia was absent in each case. The varying phenomena presented in different cases of pneiimonia probably depend, as it has been suggested, on a varying virulence of its supposed specific micro-organisms, the affection being regarded as an essential disease analogous to diphtheria, enteric fever, smallpox, or any other infective malady. The micro-organisms which appear to stand in a direct causal relation to pneumonic fever have already been named. But there is evidence to show that the Diplo- coccus pneumonim and the Bacillus pneumoniae are not exclusively concerned in producing inflammation of the lung tissues. The subject may be considered from both an etiological—or, we might say, a bacteriological —and a clinical standpoint. Naturally, it is chiefly from the latter point of view that hospital physicians have had opportunities of regarding the question. It is impossible, how- ever, to ignore the bacteriological aspects of the case. In support of Fliigge's statement just quoted, we propose to adduce evidence that the micro- organisms peculiar to erysipelas, to influenza, to tuberculosis, and to enteric fever may one and all give rise to a specific pneumonia or pneu- monic fever. So also may Loffler's diphtheria bacillus (the Bacillus pestis of Kitasato and Yersin) and the bacillus of malignant anthrax, as well as other pathogenic bacteria. Fliigge, for example, says : " We are already acquainted with pneumonias which are caused by asper- gillus and actinomyces; it is a priori not im- probable that also among bacteria there are several other species which can set up pneu- monia." I. Erysipelas.—In the form of this disease which has been called " erratic" or " vagrant erysipelas " {erysipelas migrans)—the erysipele ambulant of French writers—the attack may be protracted for one or two months. In such cases not only every part of the surface of the body, but the whole tract of mucous membranes, and even the lungs and pleurae, may in turn become affected. Dr. Peter, of Paris, has drawn attention to the spread of erysipelatous inflam- mation from the pharynx to the respiratory passages, causing in sequence bronchitis, bronchi- olitis (capillary bronchitis), and pneumonia. In a case observed by the writer at Cork Street Fever Hospital, Dublin, many years ago, the converse of this happened. A man was admitted suffering from pneumonia migrans. After some days a blush of erysipelas showed over one shoulder, and spread thence down the back, with the interesting result that simul- taneously the pneumonic symptoms subsided. So great was the impression made upon him by this case that ever since the writer has recog- nised the propriety of looking upon erysipelas pidmonum as a distinct species of the great genus Pneumonia. Grisolle quotes from Serres a case of a patient who had several attacks of pneumonia, each terminating in an attack of erysipelas. Wilson Fox states that he had seen only one such case. The erysipelas appeared three days after com- plete defervescence, and the resolution of the pneumonia and the subsequent recovery of the patient were greatly protracted. The teaching of Levy, of Strassburg, that Streptococcus pyogenes is an exciter at once of suppuration and of erysipelas, is now generally accepted. This pyogenic bacterium was ob- tained by Fehleisen from the skin involved in cases of erysipelas in 1883, and by Rosenbach and Passet from the pus of acute abscesses within a year or two afterwards. Sternberg gives the following synonyms for Streptococcus pyogenes—micrococcus of erysipelas (Fehleisen), Streptococcus erysipelatis; streptococcus of pus. Streptococcus longus (von Lingelsheim). If, then, we admit the identity of the pus- producing streptococcus with that of erysipelas, we at once obtain a key to the occurrence of an acute pneumonia in erysipelas. For this very bacterium—the Streptococcus pyogenes—plays a