202 POST-MORTEM METHODS eral hydronephrosis occurs most commonly in stricture of the urethra or phymosis. Hydronephrosis is to be distinguislied from scrofulous leidney. In this large areas of the kidney have caseated and broken down into the pelvis, so the remains of the kidney boimd an irregular cavity with diverticula, as in hydro- nephrosis. Here, however, the cavities are rough-walled, lined with caseous material, where- as in hydronephrosis the walls are smooth, lined with mucous membrane. The two conditions may be conjoined. Waxy or Amyloid Disease.—Here the history of the case helps greatly to a diagnosis. The waxy change occurs along with other parenchymatous or interstitial changes in old chronic suppurations and excavations of pul- monary tuberculosis, and in tertiary syphilis. The organ is enlarged, sometimes very greatly, as when the condition accompanies parenchy- matous inflammation. It is soft, pale, of a light, pinkish grey colour, with streaks and patches of yellow in the cortex. The tips of the pyramids are pale, the boundary layer still remaining the darkest part of the organ. In the cortex the Malpighian bodies stand out distinctly as translucent grey points, and the iodine solution displays well the waxy glomeruli and straight vessels. When there is accompanying or pre-existent interstitial change the organ is slightly enlarged, firmer than normal, its general appearance on section resembles that of the other variety, but the patchy pallor exists throughout the organ, the boundary layer being slightly, if at all, redder than the rest of the surface. Infarcts of Kidney.—These are localised areas of necrosis, simple or suppui'ative, caused by embolic blocking of an interlobular artery. The area corresponds to the portion supplied by the artery. They are pyramidal in shape, the base towards the capsule, and slightly raised above its general surface. They are pale and sur- rounded by a hsemorrhagic zone. Organised infarcts are seen as scars, causing a localised adhesion and indrawing of the capsule. Calculi, irregular and brownish, may occur in the pelvis of the kidney or in the ureter at its lower end, where it enters the bladder. This is the narrowest part of the tube. With the indications above mentioned the more common morbid conditions of the kidney and ureter can be, at all events approximately, diagnosed with the unaided eye. Abdominal Pelvis.—In peritonitis lymph or pus may be more evident in the pelvis than elsewhere in the abdomen, having gravitated there. Male Pelvis.—Examine the pouch of Doviglas for effusions, pus, or fluid fseces which have escaped from a perforation of the bowel. Bladder. — Note the state of the bladder, distended or empty. Try to express its con- tents through the urethra, to show whether this be patent or strictured. The bladder may be catheterised or opened in situ, and the condition of the urine and inner surface of the bladder ascertained. If the urine be decomposing there is probably cystitis. Cystitis is indicated by congestion of the surface and rugee, which may be covered with tenacious mucus. Examine the walls for hypertrophy. In this condition the muscular rugse are very prominent. Do not confound this with the apparently thickened and rugose walls of the contracted bladder. Remove the bladder, separating the urethra from its connections to the arch of the pubis, and cutting it across at the posterior part of the bulbous portion. Slit up the bladder, prostate, and urethra along the anterior sur- face. Examine the prostate for hypertrophy, tumour-growth, suppuration, tuberculosis, or calculi. In cases which demand their examination expose the vesiculce seminales on the outer posterior wall, and make sections. They present a honeycombed appearance, and contain normally a clear, viscid, slightly yellow fluid. They may be thickened and full of pus, or may show tubei'culous change. The 7-ectum is usually removed along with the bladder, and should be slit up along its posterior wall. It may show congestion and catarrh, or tumour growth ■— polypi (adenomatous), the cancers proper, or squamous epithelioma. Occasionally non-malignant stricture is met with, for example, after syphilitic ulceration (in women). Remember that in the rectum normally there are two projecting semi-lunar folds of mucous membrane, which must not be mistaken for new formations. Female Pelvis.—Note adhesions from old peritonitis. These are often seen crossing the pouch of Douglas. In all cases in women in which malignant tumours occur higher up in the abdomen, particularly in the liver, look for possible primary growth in the uterus or ovaries. The body of the uterus in the adult projects about 3 inches behind and '2\ inches in front up- wards into the pelvis, the peritoneum thus cover- ing it completely on its posterior surface, and in great part on its anterior surface. It is about 2 inches broad at its fundus and about an inch thick. The cervix uteri is not visible from the pelvis. The uterus may be enlarged and project into the abdomen in pregnancy and in internal tumour-growth. Generally speaking, these conditions may be distinguished by the position of the Fallopian tubes, which leave the uterus high up in the former case, and low down in the latter case. Fibroids of the uterus usually