POST-MORTEM METHODS 215 Other reagents:— 7. Absolute alcohol. 8. Pure anilin oil. This may be used for dehydrating films or sections instead of absolute alcohol, which is very apt to take up water from the atmosphere, particularly when used only at long intervals. The method of employment is described later. 9. Pure sulphuric acid. This may be kept in 25 per cent strength. 10. Glacial acetic acid. These reagents should be preserved in glass-stoppered bottles. 11. Xylol. 12. Canada balsam in xylol. Accessories:— 13. Platinum needle in handle. 14. Cor- net's forceps. 15. Glass slides. 16. Spirit-lamp or Bunsen. 17. Small cubic-centimetre measure. 18. Filter paper. 19. Six watch-glasses. When required the reagents are prepared and used thus :— All compound stains must be filtered immedi- ately before use. 1. Methylene blue. Loeffler's alkaline me- thylene blue:— Stock solution of methylene blue, three parts. Aqueous solution of cavistic potash (1'10000) ten parts, mix and filter. In the case of the caustic potash, add ninety- nine parts of distilled water to one of the stock solution to make the 1-10000 solution. The made- up stain keeps for about three weeks. Method:— Stain a film for five minutes; a section for ten minutes. Wash in water. Decolorise in acetic acid, three drops to half a pint of tap-water. Wash again, prefer- ably in distilled water. Dry par- tially with filter-paper. In the case of a, film, complete dehydra- tion by holding high over a flame, and mount in balsam forthwith. In the case of a section: Dehy- drate rapidly in absolute alcohol. Clarify in xylol. Mount in balsam. Or: Remove excess of water with filter-paper. Apply a drop or two of pure anilin oil until per- fectly transparent. Wash in xylol and mount as before. Films may also be dehydrated by these methods. Eisks.—Absolute alcohol is apt to decolor- ise a methylene blue preparation too much, so that it is well not to remove too much of this stain with the acetic acid. Alternative Stai7i.—Thionin blue, 1 gramme in 100 c.c. of a 2| per cent solution of carbolic acid, may be substituted for alkaline methylene blue, and employed in the same manner. This stain is more permanent and resistant and is preferred to methylene blue by many. Before using, dilute with two parts distilled water. 2. Gentian violet:— Stock solution of gentian violet, one part (11 per cent). Anilin water, nine parts (89 per cent). The made-up stain keeps for six to eight weeks. This is a very useful stain, and may be used both as a " simple" and as a "differential" stain. (1) Simple staining with gentian violet. Stain as with methylene blue. Decolorise with methylated spirit or alcohol until of a pale grey colour. Dehydrate and mount in balsam. (2) Diff'erential stain- ing with gentian violet. Gram's method:— Stain as before. Wash off" excess in tap-water. Apply Gram's fix- ative solution :—Iodine, 1 part (gramme). Potass, iodide. 2 parts (grammes). Water, 300 parts (cub. cent.). For one half minute for films, two minutes for sections. Decolorise in methylated spirit, or 70 per cent alcohol. Contrast stain in 0*5 per cent watery eosine (this is not absolutely essential). Dehydrate and mount in balsam. It is supposed that the proteid of certain organisms forms with the gentian violet and the iodine a compound insoluble in alcohol. A modification of this method which some- times gives better results, particularly in the case of sections, may be described, as it can be carried out with the agents at our disposal. It may be used in all cases in which Gram's method is indicated. Weigert's method:— Stain with gentian violet. Wash in 1'600 solution of common salt. Dry with filter-paper. Apply the iodine fixative solution. Dry with filter - paper. Decolorise, and at the same time complete dehydration with anilin oil, three parts, and xylol one part. Wash in xylol and mount. 3. Fuchsin. Ziehl-Neelsen's method.—This stain is used especially for demon- stration of the tubercle bacillus. Stock solution of fuchsin, 1 part. Five per cent carbolic acid, 8 parts.