PEEGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—CAUSES OF DEATH DUEING PEEGNANCY 281 with, and of all causes rupture of an ectopic gestation is the commonest, the fatal termina- tion being produced by shock and large intra- peritoneal haemorrhages. Myxoma of the chorion may produce a similar catastrophe, either by causing perforation of the uterus or hyperemesis gravidarum. The latter may also be a sequela of hydramnios. Eetroversion of the gravid uterus, if not rectified by nature or the obstet- rician, may lead to sloughing of the bladder or other pelvic viscera, or to ursemia, and in either condition death of the patient may result. As to cases where a pathological condition existed before the onset of, or developed during pregnancy, and which has been so aggravated by that state as to result in the patient's death, little need be said here, as the subject has been dealt with fully in the preceding pages. Of all pre-existing conditions heart diseases, whether of the valves or the myocardium, are most un- favourably influenced by pregnancy. This holds specially true in cases of mitral stenosis and aortic incompetence, though even in these cases a fatal termination is much more common during labour than during pregnancy. Hgemorrhage Section due to or associated with Pregnancy Antepartum HiEMORRHAGE . . .281 A. Due to Pregnancy . . . 281 H<jemo7-rhage during first three months ..... 281 Diagnosis between— Abortion . . .281 Ectopic Gestation . .281 Myxoma Chorii . . 282 Hcemorrhage during second three months ..... 284 From Detachment of the Placenta . . .284 From Extra-Uterine Preg- nancy .... 286 Hemorrhage during the last four months ..... 287 1. Accidental .... 287 Concealed . . . .287 External . . . .289 2. Unavoidable, or Placenta Prcevia 291 Treatment .... 293 Complications . . .295 3. Foetal Mortality in Hemorrhage 296 4. Rupture of Uterus . . . 296 B. Independent of Pregnancy . . 296 Menstruation . . . .296 Tumours . . . . .297 Traumatism..... 298 ANTEPAETUM HJEMOEEHAGES Arising as a Eesult op the Pregnancy Antepartum hfemorrhages arising as a direct result of the pregnancy may be divided into three main groups :— A. Haemorrhages occurring during the first three months of pregnancy. B. Haemorrhages occurring during the second three months of pregnancy. C. Haemorrhages occurring during the last four months. In adopting this classification, pregnancy is considered as the duration of ten lunar months of four weeks each. The first group includes haemorrhages occurring before the full formation of ,the placenta. The second group includes haemorrhages occurring from the time the placenta is formed to the time the foetus becomes viable. And the last group includes haemorrhages occurring after the foetus is viable. A. HJ5M0EEHAGES OCCUEEING DUE- ING THE FIEST THEEE MONTHS The haemorrhages of the first three months of pregnancy, which arise as a direct result of the pregnancy, have three chief causes:— (1) Abortion.—Abortion is the term applied to the expulsion of the ovum from the uterus before the full formation of the placenta, that is before the end of the third month. It is a process which is of necessity accompanied by haemorrhage, as it implies the rupture of the vascular adhesions which connect almost the entire surface of the ovum with the decidua. The varieties, or perhaps it would be more correct to say the phases, of abortion are as follows :— (a) Threatened abortion, i.e. the onset of pain, haemorrhage, and a varying degree of dilatation of the cervix occurring in a patient during the first three months of pregnancy. (6) Cervical abortion, i.e. the condition which occurs when the ovum is expelled into the cervical canal, in which it becomes incarcerated as a result of the failure of the external os to dilate. (c) Missed abortion, i.e. the retention of the ovum in the uterine cavity after its death has occurred. {d) Complete abortion, i.e. the expulsion of the entire ovum. (e) Incomplete abortion, i.e. the expulsion of a part of the ovum, the remainder being re- tained in the uterus. {See "Abortion," vol. i.) (2) Ectopic Gestation.—Ectopic gestation, or extra-uterine pregnancy, is the term applied to the development of the ovum outside the cavity of the uterus. Such development may take place primarily in either the tube or ovary, but practically it always occurs in the former. As a haemorrhage-producing factor, it is met with in two phases during the first three months— (a) Before primary rupture of the gestation sac, i.e. while the ovum is still contained in the intact tube or ovary, as the case may be.