546 RHEUMATISM, ACUTE become gouty, and gout in a rheumatic subject may be also modified in its character. The tendency is for the arthritis in these cases to be unusually obstinate. In lead-workers who have suffered from undoubted rheumatic fever, a condition of arthritis in later life is seen which is called gout—a condition far more intractable than the usual rheumatic arthritis, yet not in- frequently called gout, chiefly because the patients were workers in lead. Pycemic Arthritis.—In severe cases of sup- purative arthritis, rigors, high irregular fever, delirium, and rapid prostration are usual. But there is a group of cases vaguely termed "septic" which do not run this severe course, and which, if we judged by arthritis only, would be very difficult to separate from rheumatic arthritis. Such cases require further elucida- tion. Again, there is a form of pyjemic arthritis met with in drunkards whose constitutions are shattered, in which the temperature does not range high, and may indeed even be subnormal for a time. The joints are swollen and tender; there are tremor and wandering of the mind at night. The pulse is feeble, and the extremities are cold. To mistake this condition for rheu- matic fever is a serious error, for it is invariably fatal, and the end comes with great rapidity. Gonorrhoeal Arthritis.—The diagnosis in this case rests chiefly upon the occurrence of a urethral discharge, or a history of a recent attack of gonorrhoea. The heart is rarely affected, and conjunctivitis and iritis are much more frequent occurrences than in rheumatic fever. Traumatic arthritis is usually monarticular, and there is a definite history of injury to serve as a guide, but it should be borne in mind that in rheumatic fever there may occur an arthritis of one joint only. Errors may then easily arise. The patient may say, " I have sprained my ankle," and his diagnosis be too readily accepted, when a more careful search would have dis- covered fever, and perhaps inflammation of the heart. Acute monarticular rheumatism of the right hip-joint may be mistaken for appendicitis. The arthritis that follows dysentery and other ulcerations of the colon in the early stage re- sembles a pysemic arthritis in its severity, and with it there may be extreme muscular wasting, nevertheless the recovery is often very remark- able. The diagnosis rests chiefly upon the history of the disease from which the illness has dated. With tubercular, syphilitic, and pneu- monococcal arthritis, the same broad survey of all the facts must be taken in arriving at a conclusion. Allusion may here be made to the value of the salicylate treatment as a diagnostic aid. The rapid way in which many cases of rheu- matic polyarthritis subside under this treatment is an undoubted assistance in diagnosis, but it is far from certain that we are justified in making the result of this treatment a complete test of the rheumatic nature of a doubtful case. The action of salicylates is so little understood, and the nature of the rheumatic processes at present so mysterious, that it seems hazardous to build up a diagnosis on such evidence, how- ever strongly the practical convenience of it may appeal to us. The Prognosis of Rheumatic Fever It is very rarely that a patient does not re- cover from a first attack of rheumatic fever, though hyperpyrexia occasionally supervenes and proves rapidly fatal, and in exceptional cases carditis has been the cause of death. In the vast majority of cases recovery occurs, but it is unfortunate that this recovery is often incom- plete, and even more unfortunate that one attack does not protect in the future. The prognostic indications of the various heart affections are dealt with in the articles devoted to those diseases. Here we are only concerned with the prognosis of acute rheumatism, for which only general rules can be given. The younger the patient, and the more pronounced the hereditary tendency, the greater fear there is of a future attack, and this fear will be en- hanced if the circumstances are poor and the surroundings unhealthy. Repeated attacks of rheumatic fever in early life usually leave some organic heart disease behind them. The occurrence of pericarditis, pleurisy, and pneumonia point to the virulent types of the disease, and subcutaneous nodules, as Dr. W. B. Cheadle has insisted, are additional proofs of this, although, as mentioned earlier in the article, there are some exceptional instances. The supervention of the malignant type of endocarditis is extremely grave, and such cases seldom recover. The pei-sistent types of sub- acute rheumatic fever, in which pericarditis and other manifestations appear from week to week and month to month, are of bad prognosis, and it would seem that when the health of the patient has been long undermined by the rheu- matic processes and the mechanical difficulties of chronic valvulitis, a condition is reached in which active rheumatism smoulders on un- affected by any methods of treatment. On the other hand, many cases of articular rheumatism, especially in adults, recover completely, and, even if valvulitis has resulted, the mitral in- competence is often so slight as to produce no tangible injury to health, provided there are no further attacks of rheumatic fever. Pericarditis is justly dreaded, but there is good reason to suppose that recovery from this may sometimes be complete. As a rule the joints recover completely, and, even though pain and stiffness remain for some while afterwards, assiduous treatment will generally meet with success. There are exceptional cases in which deformity results and remains permanent. Such