AFFECTIONS AND COMPLICATIONS 275 PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—OTHER die unless relieved by spontaneous abortion or artificial interruption of the pregnancy. This condition is usually called the " uncontrollable vomiting of pregnancy." Occasionally it is dis- covered that a retroverted incarcerated uterus is the cause of all the distress. Treatment of the minor cases of sickness is suflSciently simple. The patient should be directed to keep the bowels regular daily by means of a cascara and belladonna pill, to take simple and digestible food, and to drink a cup of tea and eat a rusk before rising in the morning. An effervescing mixture, with hydrocyanic acid, thrice daily is as a rule the only medical treatment required. If the vomiting, however, persists various other remedies have been suggested, such as oxalate of cerium (gr. v.) in pill three times daily, as recommended by Simpson, small doses of morphia, or hydrochlorate of cocaine. Should these fail it may be necessary to put the patient to bed and feed her entirely on nutrient enemata, the thirst being relieved by the sipping of hot water. In severe cases certain local applications have been applied to the cervix with considerable benefit. The author has been accustomed to apply a solution of cocaine or strong tincture of iodine through a speculum by means of a camel's-hair brush. In some cases this has been followed by almost instantaneous relief, in others has absolutely failed. Should the iiterus be retroverted and impacted it is best to draw off the urine, push the fundus above the pelvic brim, and support it there by means of a watch-spring ring pessary. Chapman recommends the applica- tion of spinal ice-bags in Intractable cases, but no great success seems to have attended this method. Copeman advocated the dilatation of the cervix with the finger, and stated that he met with many favourable results from the adoption of this procedure. It is obvious, however, that it must only be resorted to with the greatest caution, as a miscarriage may easily be induced. Should the vomiting persist in spite of the above - mentioned remedies, nothing remains but to procure abortion; this should not be too long delayed, and should only be carried out after the practitioner's opinion has been fortified by another authority. The intro- duction of one or more laminaria tents is the better plan, although the completion of the operation at one sitting by means of Hegar's dilators and the curette has been strongly advocated by many obstetricians. Unfortun- ately, even this does not always save the patient, more especially if interference has been unnecessarily delayed. Minor forms of digestive disturbance which may be mentioned are capricious appetite (pregnancy longings), toothache, heartburn, and flatulence. Constipation is the rvile in the pregnant woman, more especially in the earlier months if the patient is naturally of a constipated habit; it is probably due to interference with the venous circulation and interchange of fluids, later to pressure of the uterus. Unless great care be adopted the colon may become filled with hard scybala, which may remain there throughout the pregnancy, and only give rise to trouble after parturition has taken place. Purgation produces a diarrhoea which may easily deceive both practitioner and patient without evacuating the contents of the dis- tended colon. Ptyalism is a very distressing complication, and although, as a rule, the flow of saliva is not excessive, in some marked cases it may amount to at least a quart in the twenty-four hours. The patient may find it necessary to spend her time catching the saliva which flows from her mouth into a bowl. The salivary glands are often enlarged and tender. No remedy but the termination of pregnancy seems to be of any avail, but astringent gargles with counter-irritation over the parotid areas may be tried. Jaundice (icterus) may be due (a) to catarrh of the bile-ducts; (i) to acute yellow atrophy; (c) malignant disease. Icterus should always be looked upon with a certain amount of apprehension when complicating pregnancy, and, so long as it runs the usual course, no special treatment is necessary; should it, however, persist, the patient may be the subject of acute atrophy or possibly malignant disease. The former consists in " poisoning of the system by an accumulation of bile-acids in the blood, together with secondary degenera- tion of the parenchyma of the great glands and of the substance of the muscles, especially of the heart." A diagnosis must, of course, be made from acute phosphorus poisoning. The prognosis is very grave as regards both mother and the foetus. The question of induction of abortion should usually be decided in the negative. Carcinoma is only recognised with difficulty during pregnancy, but it is quite obvious after the uterus has been emptied of its contents. Induction of premature labour may be necessary to relieve the intense pain which frequently accompanies this condition. Diabetes as a disorder of the hepatic gly- cogenic function has been inserted here; it must not be confused with physiological glycosuria, which is frequently present in normal pregnancies. It is, fortunately, a rare condition, and we owe to Matthews Duncan any knowledge there is on the subject. He reported twenty-two cases, of which four ended fatally during the puerperium from collapse or coma. He concludes from his researches into the histories of published cases that diabetes may come on during pregnancy, and that it may cease with the termination of that