PNEUMONIA—BACTERIOLOGICAL SECTION 160 in the mouth in health has obviously a most important bearing in the pathogenesis of acute pneumonia. In the production of diseased conditions it is not easy to exaggerate the role of the pneumo- coccus, for the multiplicity and frequency of the lesions that may be ascribed to its action are indeed remarkable. Pulmonary inflammations are undoubtedly the most common effect, and, in the opinion of the writer, pneumococci may be found in every case of acute lobar pneumonia, in most cases of broncho - pneumonia, and in most of those more or less mixed forms of pneumonia which are complicated by the associ- ated action of other organisms, such as influenza, plagvie, typhoid, diphtheria, etc. In cases of typical lobar pneumonia they are practically the only organisms present in the affected lung, and are found in greatest abundance in the fibrinous exudation into the pulmonary alveoli and in the pleural surface. They are most readily detected in and isolated from the more recent parts of the pulmonary lesion, as in the older parts they are usually much degenerated. In the purulent softening and other suppurative changes that appear in the lung in many fatal cases of pneumonia, they may be the only organisms present, or they may be associated with other pyogenic bacteria, especially strepto- cocci. Next to the lungs the cerebro-spinal mem- branes are most frequently attacked, and this may occur not only as a sequel to or a con- comitant of pneumonia, but as an apparently in- dependent condition. The resulting meningitis is sero-purulent and usually very widespread, involving both cerebral and spinal membranes. The serous cavities of the thorax and abdomen are frequently the seat of pneumococcal infection by direct extension from an affected lung, but they too may show an apparently primary and independent inflammation. Empyema of pneu- mococcal origin is comparatively common, and, in the experience of the writer, most cases of fibrinous pericarditis with sero-purulent effusion are due to pneumococci, whether an antecedent pneumonia can be traced or not. Primary peritonitis of pneumococcal origin is uncommon, but a recent peritonitis in fatal cases of pneu- monia is by no means rare. In children one of the most common effects is an otitis media, and in children, too, broncho-pneumonic lesions due to pneumococci are relatively more frequent than in adults. In the more virident forms of pneumonia the lesions produced by the pneumococcus tend to become multiple, and the condition more nearly approaches the septicpemic type of infection, as seen most typically in mice and rabbits. In such cases not only may lungs and pleurae be affected along with the pericardium and the mediastinal tissues, but more remote lesions are frequently associated, e.g. meningitis, endocarditis, arthritis. etc., and in some instances pneumococci are found in considerable numbers in the circulating blood. Summary and Conclusions. — One result of these laborious researches is to show that the pneumococcus produces in man a local lesion, usually pulmonary, with general toxic eff'ects. Sometimes the local lesion takes the form of a meningitis, an otitis, an empyema, or a peri- carditis as an apparently independent condition. This is really the same disease as acute lobar pneumonia, with an accidental difference in the site of inoculation and consequent local inflam- matory reaction, and many of the symptoms are similar from similar toxic eff'ects. Hence it not infrequently happens that a pneumococcal pericarditis or empyema is mistaken for an acute pneumonia. Occasionally, however, the pneumococcus acquires increased virulence, and produces a condition more allied to the septi- caemia of mice and rabbits. It is difficult to avoid the conclusion that the pneumococcus is the essential cause of acute lobar pnevimonia, as well as of the many other inflammatory conditions with which it is associ- ated. But the versatility of this remarkable organism renders the proof much more complex than in the case of pathogenic bacteria. At first sight, too, Koch's elementary postulates for establishing a causal relationship appear to be all evaded by the pneumococcus. For it cannot be said to be present in all cases of acute pneumonia, and in a few instances even of typical lobar forms it has been sought in vain. Moreover, it is present in the mouth and upper respiratory tract in health as well as in disease. Again, although it has been isolated in pure cultures, inoculation of animals does not reproduce the identical lesions found in man. And, finally, there is no consistent lesion even in the human subject, and not even in the lung. The allegation that the pneumococcus is occa- sionally absent even in typical cases of acute lobar pneumonia is one which is open to doubt. For, if the statement is founded on a microscopic examination, it might be that none of the cocci would be visible, having undergone degeneration until only capsules were left. Again, if based on the negative results of cultures, the fallacy might be due to the devitalised condition of the cocci. Even if reliance is placed on the negative results of experimental inoculation of lung tissue, it must be remembered that, after a time, the virulence of pneumococci in the animal body is often quite lost, or that antag- onistic substances, of the nature of antitoxins, may have been injected along with the cocci, and so neutralised their effect. The fact that pneumococci are usually present in the saliva of healthy persons has proved a stumbling-block to many writers, biit this is precisely the fact required to explain the in-