RETINA AND OPTIC NERVE 517 when the exciting cause was a malignant growth. Surgical interference has certainly a decided influence in diminishing the prominence of the papilla in such cases, and that independently of there having been any attempt to remove the cerebral growth; the effect seems due merely to the reduction of intracranial pressure. This diminution of the papillary oedema gives the nerve an opportunity of recovery under treat- ment by iodides, but it is only in a comparatively early stage of papillitis that real benefit to the nerve can accrue in this way. The value of surgical operation in cases of ear disease, and in all cases where pus is present within the cranium, lies chiefly, of course, in its effect upon the disease itself, and only secondarily in the benefit done to the accom- panying optic neuritis. In orbital disease, likewise, the treatment of the papillitis is determined by the nature of the affection. Pus in the orbit should be evacuated by early incision. In some few instances disease of the sphenoidal sinus has been diagnosed and treated surgically with good result. Similarly, in papillitis due to general disease, the prognosis and treatment are dependent entirely on the nature of the disease in the particular case. Those cases of neuritis arising from intense anaemia (not pernicious) are very amenable to suitable medication and hygiene. In I'etro-ocular neuritis of gouty or rheumatic nature, the treatment should consist in giving a mixture containing salicylate of soda and iodide of potassium, and in protecting the affected eye from cold. The prognosis in these cases is very favourable. Indeed, in most cases of acute retro-ocular neuritis recovery is to be expected, though not always complete; a central colour defect often remains long after the attack, even when visual acuity as tested in the usual way has been restored to normal. In all cases of optic neuritis absolute rest of the eyes should be enjoined, though it is impos- sible to insist strongly upon it when the inflammation lasts (as it sometimes does) for many months. Exposure to bright light must be avoided by the wearing of dark neutral tint glasses. Atrophy of the Optic Nerve.—By the term "optic atrophy," when clinically employed, it will be understood that atrophy visible at the optic disc is meant. Pathologically considered, the optic nerve is always ultimately affected throughout its entire length in every form of atrophy, at whatever part of its course it may be first involved. Such an atrophy may either be complete, affecting the entire thickness of the nerve; or partial, when a smaller or larger number of the fibres escape ; even in partial atrophy, however, the affected fibres are finally atrophic throughout their whole length. Etiology.—Cases of optic atrophy are often divided broadly into two great classes, inflam- matory and non-inflammatory or simple. Such a division is certainly most useful, but it groups so large a number of different forms of atrophy imder a single heading that it is not of much etiological value. We offer the following account of the different agencies that may produce optic atrophy, in the hope that it may prove serviceable in clinical classification :— 1. From inflammation of the nerve (consecu- tive atrophy). (a) Papillitis. (fi) Retro-ocular neuritis. 2. From interruption in the continuity of the nerve-fibres in any part of their course. (a) Section or rupture, as by wounds or other injuries. (b) Destruction by inflammation, etc. From the point of interruption atrophy ex- tends along the involved fibres in both directions —peripherally and centrally. 3. From pressure. (a) On the optic disc (glaucoma). {h) On the nerve in the orbit (hsemorrhage into sheath). (c) On tlae nerve in the optic canal (bony growths or fracture). {d) On the intracranial optic nerve or chiasma (aneurysm, distended third ventricle, tumour of pituitary body). 4. From interference with blood-supply {e.g. in peri-papillitic choroidal atrophy). 5. Degeneration of fibres secondary to de- struction, or impaired nutrition of ganglion cells. (a) In atrophy of the retina (following total embolism or thrombosis of arteria centralis; in pigmentary degeneration of the retina, primary or secondary; in retinal detachment). (6) In some cases of poisoning (as, e.g., tobacco and bisulphide of carbon ; the macular cells and fibres are chiefly affected). (c) From an inherited neuropathy. Possibly the family cases known as Leber's atrophy may come under this heading. 6. Simple degeneration or true primary atrophy. This form frequently occurs in as- sociation with disease of the central nervous system, especially with tabes, but occasionally also with cerebral atrophy, mania, general paralysis of the insane, congenital idiocy, and primary lateral sclerosis of the cord. When found uncomplicated with other nerve lesion, the remote causes assigned are the same as those which are given for the occurrence of grey degeneration in the central nervous system ; and it would therefore seem probable that, due to the action of certain causes, grey degenera- tion may occur independently in the brain, spinal cord, or optic nerves, and may be confined to one or other of these situations. Accordingly, we find male adults of the neuropathic dis-