480 RECTUM, DISEASES OF THE sphincter on the slightest exertion, discharge mucus, bleed independently of action of the bowels, and cause a constant sense of weight above the anus, the patient feeling as if the bowels were never properly i-elieved. Cutaneous hypertrophies are generally present around the anus. These are irritated by the discharge, becoming inflamed and very tender. Sometimes a number of polypoid growths are studded over the mucous membrane. Arterial and venous piles can be felt on examination as tumours bulging from the rectal wall with well-marked sulci between them. If scratched they bleed freely. Arterial piles are less dependent upon constitutional causes, and have less tendency to prolapse than the venous. Treatment. — Palliative treatment has little effect upon arterial piles. With venous piles it may materially alleviate, if not cure, the dis- ease. Such treatment consists in regulating the diet and mode of life, careful regulations of the bowels, the use of cold water injection after their action, and the application of suitable astringent ointments. Advanced cases need operative treatment. Treatment of Protruding Piles.—If the piles have just come down the patient should lie prone with pillow under the pelvis. Wool saturated with 20 per cent cocaine solution is left on the piles for ten minutes; the finger is then passed up the bowel, while gentle attempts are made by pressure with the other hand to empty the piles of blood. If this fails a bladder of ice should be placed over the part for one hour, and then taxis again tried. This again failing, apply cocaine ointment and make no further attempt at reduction. If the piles have been down for some time and are inflamed or even sloughing, and cannot be returned, they must be treated with ointment and fomentations. If they can be returned, but immediately prolapse again, the same treatment is to be used. It causes profuse suppuration with speedy separation of the sloughs. Stimu- lants and tonics are often necessary in such cases. In pregnancy piles should be operated on only if there is much loss of blood and great suffering. The recumbent position is to be kept longer than with other cases. In women the subjects of uterine displacement this must be remedied before any operation for piles. Complicated cases of disease of rectum, uterus, and bladder are common and most difficult to remedy. When piles are causing serious loss of blood evei-y day's delay in operation is to be deplored, and no consideration should lead to postponement of the only measure which can effectually relieve the drain upon the strength. Operations for Internal Haemorrhoids.— Thiity-six hours before operation, two pills are to be given, composed of: Pil. hydrarg. gr. j., Pil. col. et hyoscy. gr. iv. When the piles are venous, and in some plethoric patients, a longer course of preparatory treatment is desirable; while in the very ansemic less drastic purges are better. On the morning of operation an enema is given. The patient is placed upon the right side at the edge of the bed. The assistant stands with his back towards the patient's head, raising the upper buttock with his right hand, and with the right elbow hooked over the patient's pelvis, thus controlling the position. There are several operations from which to choose in treating hsemorrhoids. Before describing that by ligature, which we recommend in the vast majority of cases, we will briefly allude to others which may in certain cases be preferred. (1) Excision by Knife or Scissors.—This must only be done when the piles are not large, vascular, or numerous. The so-called " white pile," partially prolapsed mucous membrane, and the single perineal pile, so frequently found in women, are conveniently operated upon in this way. The sphincters are first gently, but fully dilated. The pile is seized at the base by a vulsellum and cut off. The vulsellum is kept in place till any spurting vessels have been clipped and twisted; rarely more than two require attention. When bleeding has ceased, cotton-wool soaked in solution of tannin and water (equal parts) is placed within the anus as high as the scissors have cut. (2) The ecraseur formerly often used has now no recommendation in operating for piles. Its use is followed by intense and prolonged pain. (3) Application of Strong Acids.—This must be reserved for the treatment of small granular piles or patches of villous bleeding mucous membrane. Eucaine (4 per cent) is applied, and the area to be treated surrounded with wool soaked in bicarbonate of soda. The surface is then dried and the acid applied several times with a small wooden brush. The parts are then washed, oiled, and returned within the sphincters. (4) Injection of Carbolic Acid.—The advan- tages of this method are that confinement in bed is not necessary, and it can be employed without a general ansesthetic. Its great draw- back is that it is far more dangerous than any other method of operating. Dangerous hsemor- rhage, embolism of the liver, and many deaths have followed injection. The injections are made with a hypodermic syringe, and may have to be repeated after a fortnight. Injection should never be performed when there are many piles, or when a pile is one which cannot be completely returned within the sphincters. Injection may stop bleeding and diminish prolapse, but it is not to be regarded as a cure. (5) Cauterisation.—There is the same objec- tion to this as to the injection method. A slough or inflammation is produced, the extent