266 PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—AFFECTIONS OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS can more readily be made. A furrow more or less marked may be detected between the two halves where they are. imited in one body; where the horns are distinct they diverge from one another, more especially when the uterus contracts. Other conditions suggestive of a double uterus are referred to below. Phenomena and Course of the Pregnancy.— The pregnancy may be single or double, spoken of as imilateral or bilateral, i.e. where one or both horns are occupied. Twins have also been met with occupying the same horn, and in the uterus unicornis. When both cornua are occu- pied, the ova may have been impregnated at different times, even at considerable intervals {superfoetation), and the foetuses may show at birth a corresponding difference in development, or the one foetus be retained in utero for some weeks after the birth of the fii'st. In all such remarkable careful examination of the uterus should be made to ascertain the presence or not of a duplex uterus. When one half of a double uterus only is gravid, the other, to some extent, shares in the hypertrophy of the walls, and a decidua may be formed in it. Under such circumstances it is possible that considerable or repeated haemor- rhage may occur during the pregnancy, from the empty half, without endangering the gesta- tion. An explanation may thus be afforded of cases where it has been stated that menstriia- tion has regularly recurred during pregnancy, or that the woman menstruated only while pregnant. During labour, both divisions have been felt to contract and relax simultaneously. Where there were two os uteri, that of the empty half has been observed to dilate and a decidua to be expelled. At the same time each horn may be functionally distinct and contract independently of the other. Though the labour is generally easy and natural, yet anomalies are more frequently met with. That a greater tendency to abortion exists does not rest on satisfactory evidence. It is in labour that difficulties are likely to be experienced. The increased inclination of the uterus is liable to affect the position of the head ; breech and transverse presentations are more frequent than in single uteri. The labour may be rendered tardy from the direction of the uterine force not closely corresponding with the axis of the brim. The upper portion of the horn differs from the natural fundus uteri; the walls may be thinner, and the risk of rupture is greater. Difficulties with the placenta are liable to occur when it is situated in the upper part of the horn, or is attached to the division in the uterus septus. Hsemorrhage in the latter case is likely to follow the separation. When the septum is incomplete, the placenta has been found in the one division, whilst the foetus in its development has passed into the other. Bands of tissue in the vagina have caused difficulty in the second stage of labour. Where such is the case, it is better to divide them artificially than leave them to be torn by the natural forces, the risk of the laceration extend- ing into the vaginal wall being considerable. 2. Abnormalities in Position and Relations OF THE Gravid Uterus.—The gravid uterus has, at rare times, been found in strange quarters, as in the sac of a7i inguinal or femoral hernia. Under such circumstances gestation is likely to be arrested ; cases have, nevertheless, been recorded where a child has been delivered by hysterectomy and survived. Considering the risks to the mother, such cases, as soon as recognised, would in the present day come at once under the surgeon's knife. In the later months of pregnancy the fundus uteri may come into relation with a pre-existing iimbilical hernia and partially protrude into the sac ; in one case two-thirds of the organ is said to have so passed. Labour will not be compli- cated unless adhesions have been formed inter- fering with retraction; in one recorded case retention of the placenta in the hernial sac caused difficulty. A uterus liable to prolapsus or procidentia may become pregnant. With ordinary care the displacement disappears with the increasing size and elevation of the organ. A complica- tion may arise where the enlarged uterus by a sudden strain has been forced out, and, from its size, difficulty is experienced in returning it. If unreduced, symptoms of incarceration and abortion would ensue. In older writings, cases are recorded where pregnancy in a supposed prolapsed uterus had advanced to full term; but these have evidently been cases where the prolapse has been limited to the cervix alone, from great hypertrophy, the uterine body re- maining within the pelvis. The position of the fundus in the cases recorded is not stated. Acute oedema of the cervix may also simulate prolapsus during pregnancy, and also after labour. Prolapse of the anterior vaginal wall may be a source of much discomfort during gestation, and demand attention in the manage- ment of the labour. A uterus that has been the subject of com- plete prolapse, but now retained in the pelvis by pregnancy, is liable to assume a retroverted position and cause further trouble. This must be borne in mind when replacing a prolapsed gravid uterus. Versions and Flexions.—At one time there was a tendency to impute prejudicial effects in pregnancy to flexions of the uterus, and so regard as pathological a condition that often exists, but in no way interferes with gestation. The same may be said of anteversions in the earlier months. Frequency of micturition and