221 POULTICE cation to the skin made usually of linseed meal, bread, bran, mustard, or oatmeal moistened with boiling water, and spread upon linen or muslin, for soothing or for counter-irritant purposes. Poupart's Lig-ament.—The fascial band stretching from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the spine of the pubis. Poupart's Line.—The artificial line drawn perpendicularly upwards from ,. point in Poupart's ligament midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the symphysis pubis; it is one of the lines drawn upon the abdomen to mark it off into regions. Powder.—In Pharmacy a powder (pulvis) is a drug (or drugs) in a finely divided form; there are several official pulveres, such as the pulvis rhei compositus, the pulvis jalapm com- positus, and the pulvis opii compositus. See also Dover's Powder ; James's Powder ; etc. Powers.—The term applied to one of the factors of parturition, viz. the expulsive forces, the other factors being the passages and the products. See Labour, Mechanism. Pozzuoli. See Balneology {Italy, Mwriated Alkaline Waters). Practitioner. See Medicine, Medical Practitioner, Law as to. Prae-—in compound words prce- (Lat. prm, before) means before or in front of, e.g. prm- putium (the foreskin). See also Pre-. Prascordia. — The thoracic region in front of the heart; proecordialgia is pain referred to this region. See Asphyxia {Treat- ment, Hot Water to the Prcecordia). Praecuneus.—The quadrate lobule seen on the mesial surface of the parietal lobe of the cerebral hemisphere. Prague MetllOd. See Labour, Man- agement of {Podalic Presentations, Delivery of the Head). Prairie Itch.—This name has been given to various itching skin diseases (including scabies) believed to be caused or favoured by the fine dvist of the prairie. Pre—In compound words pre- (Lat. prce, in front of) means before or in front of in time or place or value; e.g.pre-albuminm-ia (preceding the appearance of albuminuria), predicrotic (preceding the dicrotic wavelet of a pulse tracing), pregenital (in front of the external genital organs), presacral (in front of the sacrum), prevesical (in front of the bladder). Preagonal.—Occurring just before death, during the agony or death-struggle; leucocyt- osis frequently occurs at this time (terminal or preagonal leucocytosis). Preauricular.—Situated in front of the external ear or auricle, e.g. a preauricular appendage or branchial fibrochondroma. Precancerous.—Occurring before the development of the typical signs of cancer, e.g. leukoplakia of the tongue. Precentral.—Situated in front of the central fissure (the fissure of Rolando) of the brain, thus th.e precentral line in cranio-cerebral topography is one corresponding to the inferior and superior precentral sulci which lie in front of the Rolandic fissure. PrecibiCUlturistS. — "Those people who do not increase their food supply by arti- ficial means, either by cultivating the vegetable kingdom or by breeding animals " (H. Campbell in Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1905, p. 40); among the precibiculturists are numbered the most primitive peoples now living, viz. the Australian natives, the Fuegians, Esquimaux, Andamanese, Botocudos (of Brazil), Bushmen (of S. Africa), the Forest Pigmies (of Africa), the Veddahs (of Ceylon), the Ainus (of Japan), and the Digger Indians (of California); the Tasmanians (now extinct) were also precibiculturists. Precipitate.—Performed with great or unusual rapidity, e.g. a precipitate labour. See Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged {Precipi- tate Labour, Causes and Treatment); Medicine, Forensic {Infanticide, Cause of Death). Precipitins. — Substances causing pre- cipitation from a solution, e.g. those " substances in immune serums which cause precipitation when added to the fluids or solutions of sub- stances used in immunisation" {Brit. lied. Journ., i. for 1903, p. 655); "precipitins are elaborated by the injection of albuminous body fluids, such as defibrinated blood, into certain animals whose blood serum, in consequence, acquires the property of precipitating, iji vitro, the albumins against which the adaptation is directed . . . the injection of milk from one animal develops in the serum of the animal treated a precipitin which is specific for the milk used in the adaptation, but for milk of no other species" {Da Costa). See Physiology, Internal Secretions or Hormones {Toxic Action and Immunity, Precipitins). Precocity.—Early or premature develop- ment of mental or bodily functions ; also, when, in infectious diseases, symptoms appear sooner after infection than is usual, they are termed " precocious." Predigesting of Food. See Invalid Feeding {Peptonised Foods). Predisposition.—The physical condi-