450 PYURIA panied by a number of large vesical epithelial cells. Vesical catarrh is generally associated with considerable pain on micturition and in- ability to retain urine for any length of time. A small quantity of pus in an acid urine is not necessarily of much significance, as it may be due to the slight catarrh seen so frequently in uterine and ovarian disease, but it may also be one of the earlier symptoms of tuberculosis. When the irritation is more severe, and especi- ally when due to the action of micro-organisms, not only is the quantity of pus increased, but much mucus may be secreted. So long, how- ever, as decomposition does not occur, the pus and mucus separate as distinct deposits on standing, but if the urine becomes alkaline before evacuation the pus becomes thick and glairy, and remains suspended along with the mucus. To establish the fact that there is cystitis is not sufficient; the cause of the altered condition must be determined, and this may be done by a cystoscopic examination. If it has been ascertained that there is no primary urethral lesion and no disease of the bladder, neither inflammation nor suppuration of the prostate, no pelvic or other abscesses opening into the urinary tract, then we must proceed to inquire whether the pus is proceeding from one or from both ureters. This may be done by inspecting the bladder with the cysto- scope or by catheterising the ureters. Having discovered that pus is flowing with the urine from the ureters, the next point to clear up is the nature of the renal lesion. The most important diseases of the kidney which are characterised by pyuria are pyelitis, pyo- nephrosis, with or without calculus, suppurative nephritis, tubercular disease, and cystic disease when the cyst has suppurated. The question may now be asked : Is there, by observing the urine, any means of dis- tinguishing one form of renal pyuria from another? To some extent the microscopical appearance of the corpuscles may serve as a guide. When the pus-cells are round, well- developed, the contents of the corpuscles clear, and on addition of acetic acid show well-marked nuclei, the presumption is that they are of recent origin and have formed on a mucous surface. But if the cells contain a considerable quantity of finely granular particles, which impart a cloudy appearance to the protoplasm, if the cell-wall be irregular and ill-defined, and the nuclei few in number and small in size, the suppuration is probably deep seated and due to chronic inflammation. When pyuria is a consequence of inflamma- tion of the pelvis and calices of the kidney, being mixed with an acid urine, the pus on standing usually precipitates rapidly, separates clearly from the supernatant fluid, and if the inflamma- tion be very acute, or if a calculus be present, the pus may occasionally be mixed with blood. A careful record must be kept not only of the relative, but also of the absolute quantity of pus, as sudden and marked variation in the amount is one of the most certain indications of partial or complete obstruction of the ureter from which the pus is flowing. If the dis- appearance of pus from the urine be associated with increase in the lumbar swelling, then followed by the sudden escape of a large quantity of purulent urine coincident with a subsidence of the swelling, then it is clear that the ureter has been blocked for a time and its patency restored. As the result of calculous pyelitis, prior to the appearance of pus, the urine is usually observed to contain an abundant quantity of mucus, which forms a bulky, tenacious mass. So long as the urine remains acid the mucus is readily deposited from the urine. This is especi- ally the case when the calculus is composed of oxalate of lime. Before pyuria is observed microscopic examination of the deposit may demonstrate the presence of large spheroidal granular cells, degenerated epithelium, and a few blood corpuscles. When the pyelitis, which in the early stage is simply the result of mechanical irritation, has existed for some time, the quantity of pus increases and the mucus disappears. So long as the urine remains acid and no vesical disturbance arises, micturition is not unduly frequent, and the urine has not an off'ensive odour. But if there be frequent or considerable accumulations in the pelvis of the kidney as a result of obstruction, the fluid so retained is liable to septic infection ; and if the organisms have the property of decomposing urea, the urine rapidly becomes alkaline and glairy, has an offensive odour, and is in almost all respects similar to the urine in cystitis. When suppurative nephritis arises as a com- plication of the retention of decomposing urine, or as a sequence to a chronic pyelitis, the course of the disease is usually very rapid, and the diagnosis is not difficult. The history of some obstruction to the flow of urine is usually found, whether it be from stricture of the urethra, enlarged prostate, atony of the bladder, vesical calculus, tumours of the bladder, tuber- culosis, disease of the spine, or other cause by which the bladder is kept in a distended state and its contents rendered liable to decomposition. When decomposition of urine in the pelvis of the kidney occurs, pyelonephritis soon manifests itself, sometimes, but not usually, by severe pain in the loins, aggravated by pressure upon the abdominal walls over the kidney. Although pain in the renal region is rare, the patient suffers from spasm at the neck of the bladder and pain along the tract of the ureter. The urine does not present any characters of diagnostic value as regards the situation of the lesion, and varies much according to the indi- vidual case. When the inflammation primarily