538 RHEUMATISM, ACUTE after a long spell of dry and hot weather, numerous cases are sure to be met with in the towns. As Dr. Newshohiie has insisted, rheumatic fever is an urban disease, and he associates it also with a low level of ground water. Mental and physical strain are additional factors. There is good reason to believe that the strain of education, examinations, and the contest for medals among the vmderfed and more intelligent of the children of the poor, assist in the causation of the choreic type of rheumatic fever. Sudden chill, especially if with this there is physical overstrain, is a powerful predisposing cause, and it is not uncommon to get a very definite history of such an occurrence from which the attack can be accurately dated. Acute rheumatism appears to be ubiquitous, but in warm and equable climates its occun-ence is not so frequent, and it is not unlikely that the thorough realisation of rheumatic fever as an infective disease will bring to light some important facts upon this question of climatic influence. Epidemics have been recorded by Dr. Mantle and others, but they are unusual. That any particular diet predisposes does not seem probable, and rests on no very sure evidence. Insufficient food, the emanations of sewer gas, and overcrowding, by lowering the health, are predisposing causes, and of these foul air is probably an important one. The Exciting Cause.—Rheumatic fever is an infective disease, and as in other diseases of this type there are many factors which pre- dispose to the actual infection, so, too, the same is true in rheumatic fever. The question also arises whether, in addition to various pre- disposing factors, there are several exciting causes. The answer to this question cannot yet be said to be decided, though, as the result of my researches with Dr. Alexander Paine, I believe that one and not several different bacteria will prove to be the true excitant of rheumatic fever. This in any case may be asserted with confidence, that the excitant is a bacterial infection ; and that the view of the infective origin of the disease has not been the result of a sudden desire to keep, as it were, in the fashion, but has been the outcome of many years of investigation by clinicians, path- ologists, and bacteriologists, and that by this view the manifestations are well explained. At first the results of bacteriological investiga- tion were indecisive, but of late Triboulet and Coyon, Wassermann, Poynton and Paine, and Fitz-Meyer have independently isolated diplococci which, though differing in some minor respects, appear to be identical and to be a cause of the disease. The earlier researches of Wilson, Mantle, von Leyden, Lofifler, and many others prepared the way for these later investigations. The micrococcus, as described by Dr. Paine and myself, is minute, and essentially a diplococcus, each element of which is '5 /a in diameter. On solid media it grows in staphylococcal masses, in liquid media in streptococcal chains, each element of which is a diplococcus. We found the most favourable culture medium was blood- agar, or milk and bouillon slightly acidified with lactic acid. We have isolated it from twenty cases of rheumatic fever. It is present in the local lesions, and in the blood and urine of the living patient suffering from pericarditis. Injected intravenously into rabbits it reproduces the disease, and can be isolated from the local lesions. The organism is rapidly destroyed at the sites of the local lesions in man, and this fact, together with its minute size, makes it difficult to find in the tissues. We have suc- ceeded in demonstrating the diplococcus in the nodules and in the synovial membranes of the joints, and have isolated it from both these structures and from most of the rheumatic lesions. It is visually present in the exudations, though in very acute and clear effusions it may be absent, or present only in small numbers. In suitable media it lives for long periods, and keeps in some measure its virulence. It stains well with the aniline dyes, but in the tissues does not retain the gentian violet used in Gram's method with tenacity. The diplococcus certainly gains access to the system through the tonsils, and may also do so by other paths which have not as yet been demonstrated. On the other hand. Singer maintains that rheumatic fever is an attenuated pyaemia due to infection with various pus-forming cocci. But it appears inadvisable to consider such a constant disease as rheumatic fever as an attenuated pyaemia until several specifically difi'erent pus-forming micrococci are proved conclusively to cause rheimiatic fever. A brief allusion must also be made to a view which maintains that arthritic rheumatism is the true disease due to an unknown excitant, and that pericarditis and the other severe lesions are the result of secondary infections. To consider rheumatic fever as a multiple arthritis, or the severe lesions as complications, is, in our opinion, contrary to clinical experience, for they are manifestations of the disease in its severe forms; further, the diplococcus may be present in the synovial membranes of the joints although the clear exudation may be sterile, and hence these lesions, which are looked upon by upholders of the view as true rheumatism, are identical in their origin with other rheumatic manifestations. Although there are such strong reasons for believing the cause of rheumatic fever to be an infection with a diplococcus, this can only ex- plain one factor in the disease—the exciting cause. The peculiar poisons that are formed.