317 PROSTATE GLAND sexual excitement, gonorrhoea, and gleet, and when due to gonorrhoea the symptoms of involvement of the prostate most usually appear about the fifteenth day. The other causes are the employment of strong injections, the in- ternal administration of irritating drugs, the passage of instruments, the presence of foreign bodies or of calculi, and mechanical violence applied to the perinseum. The inflammatory process may be checked, or it may go on to suppuration and abscess. The symptoms are frequent and urgent desire to make water, and after micturition the pain, in place of being relieved, is rather increased. It becomes very severe, throbbing, and con- tinuous. The perinseum is hot and tender, there is rectal tenesmus, and pain in the back and loins. Any movement of the bowels causes distress, the anus is swollen, and lai'ge hsenior- rhoids forming, add materially to the suffering of the patient. Retention of urine, necessitat- ing the employment of the catheter, causes excessive pain. Constitutional disturbance is very marked, and even suppression of urine may be induced in the later stages. The onset of suppuration is indicated by rigors, and its actual occurrence demonstrated by the ap- pearance of pus in the urine; the portion which comes away first containing pus, while in the last few drops blood appears. Prognosis.—When acute prostatitis is properly treated, and abscess formation is prevented, recovery usually takes place in a short time, but in a few instances the disease may become chronic, and give rise to chronic urethral discharge. The bowels having been freely moved with four grains of calomel and a saline, the sub- sequent treatment consists of rest, local bleeding, and hot applications to the perinseum. Absolute rest in bed must be enjoined, and from ten to twenty leeches should be applied to the perinseum, which has been previously shaved and thoroughly cleansed. Local bleeding, if carried out freely, gives marked relief. Four hours after the bleeding the patient should be ordered a hot hip bath, and this may be repeated every four hours, and during the intervals large soft poultices should be applied to the perineeum, and the patient wrapt warmly in bed. If the pain is very severe a morphia suppository may be given, and if retention of urine occurs, a soft Coudee catheter may be gently passed. Chronic Prostatitis.—In cases of acute in- flammation of the gland the inflammatory products may fail to be absorbed, leaving behind a permanent enlargement of the organ, producing painful and frequent micturition. This form of enlargement is met with in young adults or men in middle life, and is sometimes accompanied by sexual hypochondriasis and diminished power to expel the urine from the bladder. The urine usually contains muco- purulent shreds, and at the end of the flow a few drops of blood may escape. Examination per rectum generally shows some enlargement or tenderness of the prostate, and on the introduction of the bougie into the urethra the passage is found to be unduly sensitive, and before the instrument enters the bladder it meets with a distinct sense of resistance in the situation of the neck. The treatment con- sists of the passage of steel bougies, the use of injections, the application of counter irritants, and the administration of tonics. A number twelve Lister's steel bougie should be passed morning and evening. This treatment should be kept up for six weeks if necessary, and at the same time small blisters should be applied to the perinseum. If in this time no distinct improvement has taken place, a solution of nitrate of silver (4 per cent) may be applied to the prostatic urethra, through the endoscope, or other efficient instrument. Three or four such applications may be required. Constitu- tional treatment must also be employed. In persons of full habit, four grains of blue pill may be given twice a week, and followed by a saline, and a course of tonic treatment should also be recommended. Iron, arsenic, and quinine may be prescribed, and along with good plain diet, pure air, moderate walking, but no riding exercise, and abstinence from all kinds of excitement generally effect a cure. 2. Periprostatitis.—In acute inflammation of the gland the infective process may extend to the periprostatic cellular tissue, and when this occurs the disease generally goes on to suppura- tion, but in a few instances the disease involves the tissue around the prostate in the first in- stance, and only invades the gland later on. 3. Abscess of the Prostate.—Whether or not acute prostatitis culminates in abscess depends upon the virulence of the infective material, the constitutional resisting power of the individual attacked, and the treatment adopted by the surgeon in the early stages of the malady. When left to nature acute prostatitis may result in the formation of an abscess within four days of the onset of the symptoms, or suppuration may be delayed for ten to twelve days. The most prolific cause of abscess is the misuse of the catheter. The formation of an abscess may be suspected when the symptoms of acute prostatitis become suddenly aggravated, accompanied by rigors and a distinct rise in temperature. When the abscess has formed fluctuation may be felt per rectum or by pressure on the perinseum. However gently the examination may be conducted it causes the patient great pain. Much suffering is also occasioned during micturition and defsecation. The abscess if left alone may rupture in one of several directions. The pus may infiltrate the perinseum and rupture externally or into the