494 REFRACTION to a suggestion made to the writer by Anderson Stuart. It is customary also for good cylindri- cal lenses to have two opposite areas obscured like " ground glass," having their edges parallel to the axis of the lens. Meamrement of Lenses.—Concave lenses not only have the property of making objects viewed through them appear smaller, but when the lens is; moved from side to side an apparent motion is imparted to any object viewed through the lens in the same direction as the movement of the lens {see Fig. 7). The farther the lens is held from the eye the greater is the apparent motion. The strength of the lens is best de- termined by the process of " neutralisation," i.e. by finding which of the convex lenses from the trial-case abolishes this apparent motion and Fig. 7.—Apparent motion through a concave lens. Fig. 8. makes the combination resemble a piece of plane glass. For weak lenses this method is very exact, and for strong lenses it is exact enough for practical purposes. When, however, strong lenses of equal power and opposite sign are apposed, the combination exhibits an ap- preciable " convex " character of motion, which- ever lens be held nearer the eye. This fact, which many have noticed from the trial-case and puzzled over, I have graphically explained by Fig. 8, which shows how the two outside surfaces of the combination would, if continued in space, as shown by the dotted lines, form a convex meniscus. A convex lens not only makes distant objects appear dim to an emmetropic eye and near objects appear magnified, but when displaced laterally it makes objects appear to move in the opposite direction, i.e. aijainst its own motion (Fig. 9). This motion can be neutral- ised, and the lens measured by the apposition of the con- cave lens of equal strength from the trial-case. An ex- cellent alternative mode of measuring lenses is afforded by the now well- known Geneva lens measure (Fig. 10), which, when pressed against each surface of the lens in turn, tells the dioptric power of each surface. The two readings must, of course, be added together to give the strength of the lens. For pebble lenses the findings of this instrument are a little too low. The index of refraction Fig. 9.—Apparent mo- tion through a con- vex lens. being higher for pebble, the same curvature betokens a greater refractive power. Fig. 10.—Geneva Lens Measure. Measurement of Cylinders.—The first step is to find the axis, by looking through the lens at a (preferably distant) vertical line and rotating it till the part of the line viewed through the cylinder no longer appears "tilted," but continuous, above and below, with the rest of the line. If now the lens can be moved in a direction parallel to the length of the line, without causing any apparent displacement of neighbouring objects, the axis of the lens is parallel to the line. If, on the other hand, it imparts apparent motion to the neighbouring objects when it is moved along the direction of the line, the axis is perpendicular to the line, as confirmed by the apparent immobility of objects when the lens is moved at right angles to the same. In either case the lens is convex or concave, according as the objects appear to move "against" or "with" its own motion. Having found the axis and character of the lens, it is easy to appose successive cylinders of opposite sign from the trial-case, axis to axis ever, till all apparent motion is neutralised. Another plan is to appose spherical lenses till one is found which annuls all motion along a meridian perpendicular to the axis, since this is the meridian of maximum curvature. References have already been made to the Geneva lens measure. If pressed against a cylindrical lens, its index-hand points to zero when its three teeth lie along the axis of the lens, but on rotating the apparatus slowly the index rises gradually till the maximum reading is reached at right angles to the axis, demon- strating very prettily the gradual increase of curvature of successive meridians as they become more and more distant from the axis. In the case of strongly cylindrical spectacle- lenses, the exact inclination of the axis is a matter of considerable importance, and though