—DIAGNOSIS OF PREGNANCY 235 PREGNANCY, PHYSIOLOGY OF- beginning of the last menstruation and adding seven days; e.g. the date of the commencement of the last menstruation being August 7, labour may be expected about the 14th of the follow- ing May. Where the menstrual history of the patient is available no more accurate method can be got; but an error of from one to three weeks even with this is possible. The possi- bility of menstruation in the early months of pregnancy must always be borne in mind. A^ery often, however, as in cases where menstru- ation is irregular or absent, as in lactation, ansemia, phthisis, before puberty, etc., this method of calculation is impossible. The Date of Fruitful Coitus.—This datum is rarely available in married women, though some profess to know from their sensations during coitus if conception has taken place. It is use- ful, however, in those cases where there is a history of a single coitus. The onset of labour may then be predicted at the 275th day after coitus. The Date of Quickening.-—Quickening gener- ally occurs about the third term of pregnancy, and may therefore be used, in the absence of more reliable data, in calculating the probable date of confinement. In an intelligent muci- parous woman it is of distinct value for this purpose. In all cases it is useful as a check where the menstrual history is indefinite, and is probably the most reliable datum available where from any cause menstruation has been suspended before impregnation. The Height of the Fundus Uteri.—This de- pends to a considerable extent on the amount of liquor amnii and the size of the foetus. Roughly speaking, however, it may be said that the fundus can be felt just aljove the symphysis pubis in the fourth month, at the fifth month midway between the symphysis and umbilicus, at the sixth month at the level of the umbilicus, at the seventh month two finger-breadths above the umbilicus, at the eighth midway between the umbilicus and the ensiform cartilage, at the ninth it reaches the ensiform, and in the tenth month the fundus sinks somewhat to a lower level. The level of the fundus, in many cases, does not vary much in the last weeks. The condition of the cervix at this time, however, will enable us to tell at least if labour is imminent, as it undergoes a real shortening, and its canal becomes merged into that of the uterus in the last fortnight of pregnancy. The Length of the Foetus in Utero.—This, according to Carl Braun, forms one of the best data from which to estimate the time of preg- nancy. As it lies folded up in the uterus, the length of the foetal axis is found to be about one inch for every lunar month of gestation. The measurement is got by applying one arm of a pair of callipers to the lowest part of the head, the other to the highest part of the breech. In primiparse, where the head is already within the brim, it is necessary to introduce the lower blade into the vagina. A measurement of seven inches got in this way would indicate a seven months' gestation. This method of calculation is not, however, likely to be much used in general practice. In calculating the onset of labour we will then generally rely on Naegle's method. It is well never to be too definite, a considerable margin should always be allowed, as mistakes of from one to three weeks are common. Diagnosis of the Death of the F(etus.— The indications of intrauterine death may be briefly stated as follows :— 1. The disappearance of the foetal heart sounds if these have been previously noticed. 2. The cessation of active foetal movements. 3. A slow diminution in the size of the ab- dominal tumour. 4. Diminution in size and tension of the mammse. 5. Symptoms on the part of the mother of malaise. Chilliness and a feeling of dead weight in the lower abdomen. 6. Foetid discharge from the uterus if the membranes have been ruptured. 7. Looseness and mobility of the foetal cranial bones and feet on vaginal examination if the finger can be introduced within the internal os. If the membranes remain unruptured the liquor amnii is slowly absorbed, and the dead foetus may be retained in utero for weeks and even months. Such a consideration, as already stated, in the absence of a definite and reliable history, may present great difficulty in diagnosis. The Diagnosis of Primiparity and Multi- parity.—Under certain circumstances, generally medico-legal, it may be necessary to determine if a woman is pregnant for the first time or has previously been so. Traces of a former preg- nancy which has gone to full time or past the sixth month can generally be found in the lax and pendulous condition of the mammje, the relaxed abdominal wall, the linese albicantes, the absence of the hymen, the patulous condition of the vagina and vaginal orifice, and the lacerated cervix. A pregnancy, however, which has ter- minated in an abortion before the sixth month may leave no traces at all by which it can be subsequently recognised. It must also always be kept in mind that the lapse of a few years may obliterate many of the above signs, and that certain pathological conditions of the cervix in a primipara may closely simulate the characters of the cervix in a multiparous woman. Diagnosis of Multiple Pregnancy. (See Multiple Pregnancy.) Multiple Pregnancy 1. Definition and Varieties. . . 236 2. Frequency 236 3. Influences Predisposing to . . 236 4. Origin and Development . . . 236