PULSE, THE 400 to rise more and more above the level of the first-formed apex in the so-called anacrotic pulse, and is usually well sustained, but this last feature depends on other factors. If there is a relatively powerful left ventricle, and perhaps some pyrexia, the two waves forming the summit may be equally large and pointed, Fig. 27.—Anacrotic pulse. Shows the notch dividing the two summits of the systolic wave at the top of the curve. and the cleft between them may be very deep. The up-stroke is then more sudden and of greater amplitude. Exaggeration of these waves is of instrumental production, and it is in this way that the bisferiens pulse is formed (Fig. 28). The writer does not think this type of sphyg- mogram occurs in cases of pure aortic stenosis the bisferiens pulse, and, generally speaking, the former coexists with a relatively higher blood pressure than the latter. To return to the anacrotic pulse, we may state that obstruction to the outflow of blood at the junction of the ventricle and aorta is not the only, or even the chief, condition which Fig. 28.—Pulse from a child suffering from tubercular meningitis which has assumed the bisferiens type under the influence of slight pyrexia. This pulse, when the vessels were more contracted, gave an anacrotic curve. unless there is an elevation of the temperature, or at any rate some diminution in the peripheral resistance. A form of curve very similar to the pulsus bisferiens is commonly obtained in cases of aortic incompetence without stenosis, but the second summit is then rarely so high as the primary one {see Fig. 17). The double summit under these circum- stances is entirely dependent upon the sudden and forcible manner in which the systolic wave is developed in the relatively empty arterial system. The writer would define the bisferiens pulse as one in which the systolic wave is broken up into two more or less pointed summits of about equal size, the second summit always rising to a higher level than the first. This last feature is the important one, and it belongs also to the anacrotic pulse. Under certain circumstances the anacrotic pulse may become modified into Fig. 29.—Tracing from a plexiform angioma of the scalp, show- ing the anacrotic character of the pulse-curve. The lower tracing is a respiratory one. produces this modification of the systolic wave, though some of the most characteristic tracings may be obtained in aortic stenosis. Anything which tends to abolish the percussion element in the wave and which leads to the more gradual transmission of the impulse within the arterial tube, will produce a rounded or anacrotic curve. Tracings made with the plethysmograph of the pulsation of the arm or leg as a whole are generally anacrotic. The normal form of intra- cranial pulse, taken from the fontanelle or from a gap in the skull, is anacrotic. The writer recently made tracings from a plexiform angioma which pul- sated as a mass under the scalp of a child aged seven years. The type of curve obtained was also anacrotic {see Fig. 29). In very young infants the sphygmogram of the radial artery is frequently anacrotic, and the same kind of pulse-curve is obtained in some cases of aneurysm of the aorta in adults, for reasons which will be stated hereafter. But in the opinion of the writer the most powerful Fig. 30.—Pulse of child aged 5 years, suffering from tubercular meningitis. The peripheral arteries have become somewhat relaxed, and the usual anacrotic character of the curves has disappeared. The second summit of the systolic wave is still well developed. The type of pulse irregularity in this disease is well shown. single factor in the production of the anacrotic pulse is contraction of the peripheral vessels. In children he is convinced that this is so, and in some cases of tubercular meningitis, where even the larger arteries (radials) are tightly con- tracted, this form of sphygmogram is very characteristic. Sometimes, when the child is