RECTOCELE 475 RectOCele.—Prolapse of the rectum into the vagina, e.g. in cases of procidentia uteri. See Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor {Lesions of the Fixed Portion of the Pelvic Floor); Uterus, Displacements of {Desce7it). RectO-Vagfinal.—Affecting the rectum and the vagina; e.g. a recto-vaginal fistula, the recto-vaginal septum, etc. Rectum, Diseases of the Introduction ...... /1 Abscess and Fistula in And. Operations ..... ATI 'til HiSlMORRHOIDS. ..... 4/0 Treatment . . . A Qr\ Operations .... A QA Conditions associated ivith Hcemor- rhoids ...... 482 Procidentia Recti. .... 483 Polypus Recti and Polypoid Growths . 483 Pruritus Ani ..... 484 Fissure and Irritable Ulcer 485 Neuralgia and Hysteria 485 Persistent Constipation 486 Ulceration op the Rectum . 486 Stricture of the Rectum 487 Malignant Disease .... 488 Operation ..... 489 Lupoid and Rodent Ulceration . 490 Villous Tumour ..... 490 Coccygeal Pain ..... 490 Proctitis ...... 490 See also Abdomen, Clinical Investigation of {Examination per Rectum); Appendix Vermi- FORMis {Appendicitis, Symptoms, Rectal Examina- tion); Ascites {Recognition of the Cause, Rectal Examination); Aseptic Treatment of Wounds {Operations on the Rectum); Cautery {Uses in Rectal Operations); Cholera, Epidemic {Symp- toms, Rectal Temperature); Colon, Diseases of {Symptoms of Malignant Stricture, Ballooning of Rectum); Electricity {In Diseases of the Rectum); Fractures {Pelvis, Rectal Explora- tion) ; Gastro-Intestinal Disorders of Infancy {Congenital Anomalies, Rectal Steatosis, Prolapsus Recti); Generation, Female Organs op {Bladder and Rectum); Gyn/ECOlogy, Diagnosis in {Rectal Examination); Haemorrhage {Treatment); Hip- Joint, Diseases of {Abscess Formation, Rectal Examination) : Hysteria {Disorders of Digestive Organs, Rectal SjMsms); Intestines, Surgical Affections of {Intussusception); Invalid Feed- ing {Rectal); Labour, Post-partum Hemor- rhage IN {Secondary Treatment by Rectal In- jections) ; Menstruation and its Disorders (Vicarious); Mesenteric Glands {Abdominal Tuberculosis, Diagnosis by Rectal Examination); New-born Infant {Structural Deformities, Im- perforate Anus) ; Peritoneum, Acute Peri- tonitis {Method of Examination); Post-mortem Methods {Abdomitial Pelvis, Rectum); Prostate Gland {Hypertrophy, Diagnosis); Puerperium, Physiology of {Involution, Effect of State of Rectum); Syphilis (Visceral Gummatous Ulcera- tion and Stricture of Rectum); Tabes Dorsalis {Symptomatology, Rectal Crises); Vagina, Dis- orders of the {Recto- Vaginal Fistulce). Rectal diseases are among the most common that affect civilised humanity. Improper food and alcohol, sedentary indoor occupations, and defects in clothing have much influence in the causation of these maladies, which, though not usually dangerous to life, certainly give rise to a vast amount of suffering, and also to the distress arising from inability to work for daily bread. The majority of these affections are very amenable to proper treatment. Some forms of rectal disease are much more common than others, notably fistula and piles. In hospital practice fistula is more common than piles, but in private practice hsemorrhoids of various kinds are more frequently met with. There are certain questions which it is desir- able to ask the patient when investigating a case of rectal disease. These refer to :— (1) The presence or absence of pain, and its nature and position. (2) Protrusion on action of the bowels, or on exertion. (3) Nature of discharge if present. (4) Constipation or diarrhoea. It is not uncommon for stone, cystitis, pros- tatitis, or urethral stricture to give rise to rectal symptoms, which may be most prominent, and mislead a patient to suspect the rectum when the urinary organs are really the seat of his disease. In women the condition of the uterus must be ascertained. Verbal interrogations concluded, an examina- tion is to be made. The most comfortable and delicate position for the patient, and the most convenient for the surgeon, is obtained when the former lies on the right side, face and chest turned towards the couch, right arm behind the back, and knees drawn up to the abdomen. The buttocks are then in an oblique position, and leave the surgeon a good view of the anus. In special examination for growth or stricture the patient should be directed to stand up and bear down. Great gentleness must always be used in the examination. Note any discolora- tion and the condition of anus, whether patulous, contracted, or nipple-shaped. Look for tumour, ulceration, or fistulous openings; feel around the anus for induration. Press on the very verge of the anus, for a painful spot may be found indicating the position of a fissure. With the hands placed upon the buttocks, and the fingers near the anus, separate the former, telling the patient to bear down. The anus is thus everted, and the orifice and mucous membrane for half an inch up the bowel exposed to view. Fissure,