PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—DISEASES OF PLACENTA AND CORD 249 present be adequately explained. Stated briefly these changes consist in the occurrence of obliterating endarteritis in a variable number of the middle-sized branches of the foetal arteries, and in widespread changes resulting therefrom in the affected areas, the most im- portant of which are the formation of numerous solid patches in the spongy placental substance, termed infarcts, and the deposition of large quantities of fibrin from the maternal blood upon the villi in the affected parts. Necrosis rapidly destroys all the structural characters of these villi. In this manner the maternal and foetal circulations become obliterated in many small areas of the placenta, and numerous groups of villi are rendered functionless. Well-marked changes of this character can be detected in practically all ripe, healthy placentae, but the amount of placental tissue thus destroyed varies greatly. The marginal cotyledons are usually much more affected than the central ones. Degenerative changes also occur in the serotina ■during the same period. These conditions have frequently been errone- ously attributed to placentitis, to haemorrhage, to syphilis, to phthisis, etc., etc.; they are, in reality, due to old age, and are probably pre- paratory to the normal process of shedding during labour. The young placenta is certainly less easily separated from the uterine wall than the fully ripened organ, and the presence or absence of the changes described probably ex- plains this difference. It is possible also that these changes determine the onset of labour by gradually rendering the placenta inadequate to the further nutrition of the foetus. Post-mortem Changes (retained Placenta). —When the foetus dies, and the ovum is not at ■once discharged from the uterus, certain changes occur in the placenta as the result of the sus- pension of the circulation through it. The foetal circulation is, of course, at once suspended; the maternal circulation through the inter- villous spaces fails gradually; fresh blood may be found between the villi here and there in placentae which have been retained for several weeks after the death of the foetus. The villi are nourished directly by the maternal blood which surrounds them, and where the maternal circulation has remained active they show no •degenerative or necrotic changes. Where the circulation fails the intervillous spaces become obliterated by coagulation of the blood they contain, and the villi in those parts rapidly necrose. The changes they undergo are similar to those found in infarcts in living placentae, •except that obliterative endarteritis is not present; fatty degeneration is very marked in these villi. A great deal of the pathological work which has been done with the placenta has been undertaken in the case of retained placentae. Insufficient acquaintance with the normal post - mortem appearances has led to these changes being described as the cause of the death of the foetus, whereas in reality they have resulted from it. In this manner a great deal of confusion has been introduced into the subject. Putrefaction.—Dead placental tissue when retained in the uterus is especially liable to the attacks of putrefactive organisms. This is a very common occurrence in the case of portions of placental tissue retained after labour or abortion, and the clinical results are sufficiently familiar to require no notice in this place. When the entire ovum is retained putrefaction is extremely rare. The reason is that the retention cavity is an aseptic chamber, and unless organisms are introduced by operative interference, or make their way in from bowel adhesions or otherwise, the ovum undergoes non-putrefactive necrosis. Cases are, however, recorded where a foetus has been discharged piecemeal from the uterus, after being retained for many months, or even for years, without mechanical interference. Putrefaction is much more common in the case of an extra-uterine than a iiterine ovum, owing to the liability of the former to injury from ruptiire, etc. The tissues of the placenta, though prone to certain forms of degeneration, are not subject to such varied or well-defined diseases as most of the adult organs of the body. Perhaps the explanation of this lies in the embryonic char- acter of the tissues themselves, which is preserved throughout the whole duration of the existence of this organ. Foetal tissues, for example, never show an active inflammatory reaction; they appear to perish under the influence of an irritant which would be insufficient to destroy adult tissues, but would induce in them an inflammatory reaction. The only inflammatory lesion the existence of which in the placenta has been clearly shown is peri- and end-arteritis, which occurs freely in the mature placenta; here, of course, the inflammatory process is of an inactive kind. Lesions formerly described as due to "placentitis" are now recognised as resulting from degenerative processes. The effect of placental lesions upon the life or development of the fa^tus appears to depend more upon their extent than upon their nat\ire. A considerable diminution in the total amount of healthy placental tissue appears to be required to influence the foetus unfavour- ably. The analogy of pulmonary diseases is not inapt. It is well known that a considerable area of lung tissue may be destroyed or rendered functionless without much embarrassment of the respiratory process. And similarly an amount of placental tissue much less tlian that provided by nature appears to be quite sufficient to carry on the processes of foetal nutrition and excretion. Anomalies of the Placenta.—Anomalies of