REGIONAL Reg^ional Anatomy.—The study of the anatomy of the various regions of the body as regards the relations of the structures in any given region to each other. Reg^istration. See Vital Statistics (Births, Deaths, Sickness). R e g' i U S. — Literally the term means " royal "; e.g. a regius chair, i.e. a professorship having a royal endowment. Regrnault's Hygrometer.—An ap- paratus for ascertaining the dew-point. See Meteorology [Hygrometry, Dew). Regulation of Heat. See Physi- ology, Nutrition (Absorption of Food, Produc- tion and Regulation of Temperature). Regurgitation. See Heart, Myocar- dium AND Endocardium {Physical Signs of Different Forms of Heart Disease, Aortic a7id Mitral Incompetence). Reichert's Cartilage.—The hyoid bar of the second visceral arch of the embryo. Reichert's Method.—A means of demonstrating the crystals of oxyhsemoglobin in the blood by laking it with ether and adding from 1 to 5 per cent of oxalate of ammonium. Reich I'S Test.—A method of detecting the presence of proteids in solution by adding alcoholic solution of benzaldehyde, sulphuric acid, and solution of ferric sulphate, producing a deep blue colour. Reich man n's Disease.—A form of dyspepsia in which there is an intermittent or continuous increased secretion of gastric juice, generally hyperacid in reaction, irrespective of the presence of food in the stomach. See Stomach and Duodenum (Special Symptomat- ology of Gastric Neuroses). Reid'S Line.—An imaginary line drawn backwards from the lower margin of the orbit through the centre of the external auditory meatus is called Reid's base line; it is used in cranio-cerebral topography, as are also two vertical lines related to it. Reil, island of.—One of the lobes of the cerebrum, lying on a deeper plane than the others, and hidden by the opercula, but visible if the fissure of Sylvius be opened up. See Brain, Physiology of (Anatomical). ReinSCh'S Test. —-SVe Toxicology (Arsenic, Tests). Reissner's Membrane.— A thin membrane in the membranous labyrinth of the ear, limiting the ductus cochlearis; membrana vestibularis. ANATOMY 503 Relapsing Fever. Definition ...... 503 History ....... 503 Etiology ...... 503 Morbid Anatomy ..... 504 Symptoms and Course .... 504 Complications . . . . 505 Prognosis ...... 505 Treatment ...... 505 See also Parotid Gland, Disorders of (Parot- itis, a Complication of Relapsing Fever); Micro- organisms (Bacteria, Spirillum). Synonyms.—Typhus recurrens, Famine fever, Spirilltim fever; French, Fievre a rechute; German, Armen-typhtis. Definition.—An acute infectious fever, char- acterised by the presence of a spiral micro- organism in the blood, by a rapid onset and defervescence, and by a repetition of the fever after a week's apyrexia. History.—There seems to be no doubt that this fever is one of the diseases described by Hippocrates, although his description would appear to include cases which may, with more probability, be referred to other conditions. Singularly enough, however, it is not till 1739 that we find an account of an epidemic of re- lapsing fever. Rutty at that date giving an accurate description of it, though he did not distinguish it definitely from other fevers prev- alent in Dublin at that time. The disease seems to have been frequently prevalent in Ire- land, and particularly so in the first sixteen years of the nineteenth century. In most cases its epidemic prevalence coincided with that of typhus, a fact which prevented a definite dis- tinction between the two fevers being made till Henderson, of Edinburgh, finally separated them in 1843, after both diseases had been epidemic for over two years. Since that time, as far as this country is concerned, relapsing fever has been of rare occurrence, the last cases in Great Britain occurring in 1869-70, although cases are reported as having occurred in Ireland since that date. As regards geographical range, the fever may apparently exist in any climate. It has been during the nineteenth century fairly common in Northern Europe, very prevalent in Silesia, and is still to be found in Russia. It has also been of frequent occurrence in the famine districts of India. On various occasions it has appeared in North America, and its presence has also been noted in Algeria. Etiology.—Relapsing fever has a particular interest in that it is caused by a micro-organism belonging to the group of protozoa. This organism is a spirillum, long and slender, and of varying length (16 to 40 (jl), pointed at the ends, and, as Koch has succeeded in demonstrat- ing, provided with true flagella. In fresh blood