552 RHEUMATISM IN CHILDREN the beginning of endocarditis, but more usually this occurs without any such accompaniment, and if any sensation be complained of in the region of the heart it is generally one of vague uneasiness rather than actual pain. Not very unfrequently pain in the region of the neck, causing "stiff neck," is the only outward sign of rheumatism, and this pain may occasion contracture of the muscles on one side (rheu- matic torticollis). As many other complaints may cause "stiff neck," or torticollis, these last will have to be excluded before the diagnosis of rheumatism is entertained. Sweating.—The profuse, sour-smelling per- spirations of adult acute rheumatism are only occasionally observed in children. In these last, as a rule, the skin is dry instead of being moist. Any sweating that occurs is usually late in the complaint, and is perhaps due to the action of the salicylates rather than to some intrinsic character of the disease. In the inter- vals between the attacks, however, rheumatic children are very prone to profuse perspirations on the slightest exertion. Arthritis.—As a rule, this is less severe and more transient in children than in adults. In both there is the same tendency to symmetry, and for the swelling to disappear from points earlier attacked to involve others. The knees, ankles, and wrists, in the order given, are the joints most often attacked. Not very unfre- quently the metacarpal phalangeal joints are involved with the larger ones, and much less frequently the corresponding joints in the feet. Cases in which the smaller joints are involved are generally severe. The swelling of the joints concerned is seldom of any great extent, and it is only exceptionally that there is any redness of the adjacent skin. The amount and extent of the arthritis is a m^easure of the severity of the attack, and it is very seldom that rheu- matism of such severity as to cause definite arthritis is not attended with pronounced cardiac lesions in children under seven years old. In children under that age, too, with a history of past arthritis, there is strong pre- sumptive evidence that the joint affection was not rheumatic if the heart be free. The swell- ing seldom remains in any one joint for many days, but accurate knowledge of the duration is rendered uncertain by the efficacy of the salicylates in removing the external signs of the complaint. If the swelling persist in spite of treatment, and is limited to one or perhaps two of the larger joints, then a suspicion of gonor- rhoea should always arise, as cases of gonorrhceal arthritis are by no means unknown in even little boys and girls. In children a chronic synovitis is never left as a consequence of rheu- matism, and contractures and other deformities of the joints are perhaps unknown. Very occasionally the arthritis is confined to one joint, usually the hip, and it is not uncommon to find these mon-articular cases mistaken at first for tuberculous disease of the affected joint. Some degree of arthritis, or pains in the joints, is a feature of the complaint in by far the greater number of cases. The interest and importance attaching to the mon-articular cases have, perhaps, led to an exaggerated estimate of their frequency on the part of certain writers. But it is in the diminished severity of the arthritis, and not mainly in its diminished fre- quency, that one of the chief distinctions be- tween the rheumatism of childhood and that of adult age lies. Pyrexia.—This plays a much less conspicuous part in the rheumatism of children than in that of adults. In contrast with what occurs in other complaints, in rheumatism the j^ounger the child the less the tendency for the temper- ature to be raised. In slighter cases, marked by joint pain only with no accompanying arthri- tis, the temperature may not be raised at all, and this in many instances where the effects upon the heart are disastrous in the extreme. On the contrary, again, fever is never the sole manifestation of rheumatism in children, any increase of temperature being invariably accom- panied by pain or some other more definite sign of the complaint. In ordinary cases, with an average amount of arthritis, the temperature seldom ranges above 100° or 101° Fahr., im- less pericarditis or severe tonsillitis be present. With the onset of pericarditis the temperature may rise as high as 105° or 106°, and even higher still in cases where there is a combination of chorea with active rheumatism, manifested by such symptoms as pain and swelling of the joints. In cases such as the last pericarditis is almost invariably present as well. It is only in cases where pericarditis is present that we have in children any equivalent of the so-called " cerebral rheumatism" of adults, where the life of the patient is endangered from the pyrexia itself, independently of any other con- ditions. Much stress has been laid by some writers on the pyrexia consequent on endo- carditis, but it can be safely said that any persistent temperature directly due to endo- carditis is practically unknown with rheumatism in children. Any pyrexia that occurs is almost certainly due to the rheumatic symptoms that initiate the attack, and independent, probably, of any endocarditis that may ensue. Cases of endocarditis with persistent heightened tempera- ture, where other sources of pyrexia can be excluded, should raise the same suspicion of malignancy in children as in adults, as although ulcerative endocarditis is rare in children, it is certainly far from unknown. An interesting phase of rheumatic pyrexia is afforded by cases where, after generally a sharp initial attack of fever, the temperature is persistently raised at some period of the day for many months, or even perhaps years. In such cases the tern-