PNEUMONIA—CLINICAL SECTION 177 ages, but also on the greater frequency of apical pneumonia in very young subjects. Probably the occasional appearance of an erythematous blush upon the skin, simulating scarlatina, is due to paresis of the vaso-motor nerves. When a rigor, or more likely a convulsion, with vomiting, diarrhoea, redness of the fauces, and an erythema, usher in acute pneumonia in a child, a wrong diagnosis of scarlatina may be made, for which there is some justification in this remarkable grouping of symptoms. Cerebral symptoms often mask pneumonia in childhood. The attack may be ushered in by convulsions. Osier speaks of " the so-called cerebral pneumonias of children," in which the disease sets in with a convulsion, and there are high fever, headache, delirium, great irritability, muscular tremor, and perhaps retraction of the head and neck. The diagnosis of meningitis is usually made, and the local affection in the lung may be overlooked. Again, from anatomical considerations, even fibrinous pneumonia is apt to assume a lobular character. So vascular is the pulmonary parenchyma in childhood, and so fine and delicate are the connective tissue elements, that the spread of a pneumonia through contiguous lobules and even across the interlobar septa is an easy matter. In children the adjacent serous membranes —pleura, pericardium, and endocardium—are very prone to infection by the Diplococcics pneu- monice and other pneumonic micro-organisms. In the case of a little boy, aged 3^ years, recently under the writer's care, the disease almost spent itself in producing a pericarditis with endo- carditis. Only as an afterthought, as it were, did the physical signs of a left basic pneumonia show themselves. A difficulty may arise in another way also from the circumstance that pleurisy with effusion may in very early life closely simulate pneumonia, not only in its fulminant clinical course with fever, cough, and dyspnoea, but also in its physical signs. Even in adult cases the blocking of a system of bronchial tubes by plastic exudation may interfere with the develop- ment of the classical signs of pneumonic con- solidation — bronchophony, tubular breathing, and increased vocal fremitus. In such a case the dulness on percussion and absence of breath sounds—natural or adventitious—may be attrib- uted to a pleural effusion rather than to a pulmonary consolidation. Young children expectorate indeed, but do not spit out—the expectoration is commonly swallowed. This removes from our ken one easy means of diagnosis in pneumonic fever— the inspection of the rusty viscid sputum. But it does more than this by contributing to gastro- enteric derangement, the toxin-laden sputum when swallowed probably acting as a local irritant in the stomach and intestines. Hence vomiting and diarrhoea, tympanites, abdominal VOL. VIII tenderness and pain, possibly convulsions or other cerebro-spinal symptoms. Keference has already been made to the form of acute pneumonia in children to which Baginsky, of Tubingen, gave the name of "gastric pneumonia" in 1880. When an attack of vomiting takes place, characteristic rusty sputa may be seen in the ejected matters, confirming the diagnosis of a croupous pneumonia, and proving that the expectorated phlegm has been swallowed in the first instance. As a diagnostic, E. Henoch lays stress on the character of the breathing, which is short, very rapid, with grunting expiration. The pneumonia of childhood often runs a short course and terminates in recovery. Allu- sion has already been made to the remittent and relapsing character of the pyrexia in young children, a range of temperature which suggests a lobular distribution of the pulmonary trouble. The danger to life from croupous pneumonia occurring in previously healthy children is trifling. Feeble children, however, succumb to the disease as easily as patients of more advanced age (Jiirgensen). Henoch lost only 7 out of 64 cases in young children. Out of 201 cases in children under 16 years—the great majority being under 10 years—von Ziemssen lost only 7 (3-3 per cent). At the Kiel Policlinic, Jiir- gensen lost only 4 out of 110 patients under 10 years of age. Barthez lost only 2 out of 212 children aged from 2 to 15 years. In striking contrast to these figures is the heavy death- toll which catarrhal pneumonia exacts from its subjects of tender age. Bartels lost all his patients under 1 year of age; after that period a little more than one-third. Von Ziemssen lost just one-half of the children under 1 year, about 38 per cent (17 out of 45) of those from 1 to 3 years old, only 25 per cent (8 out of 31) of those above 3 years of age. Pneumonia in Old Age. — Insidious in its onset, and it may be latent in its course, pneu- monia is a frequent and perilous disease of ad- vanced life. By it in many a case the silver cord is loosed, when already strained almost to breaking point by the presence of some other and older malady, such as carcinoma, system diseases of the brain and spinal cord, chronic nephritis, gout, or other dyscrasia. The weak and degenerated heart of old age cannot battle against the added strain of a pneumonic fever and pulmonary consolidation, and so pneumonia is rightly dreaded by all physicians when it supervenes in the aged and infirm. In its clinical features also the pneumonia of advanced life differs from the typical disease. Its seat is the most dependent parts of the lungs, whence perhaps it has some claim to the term "hypostatic pneumonia." It is less febrile, less acute, less lobar in its distribution. The sputum is less rusty, more cellular, than that of ordinary acute pneumonia, and so the attack works its 12