PLASMON 131 Plasmon. — A proprietary preparation made from the proteid of milk. See Invalid Feeding {Milk). PlasmotropiC Action.—Blood de- struction or degeneration due to the action of poisons, e.g. the blood derivatives absorbed from the intestine in ankylostomiasis. Pla.SSOn.—The protoplasm of the non- nucleated cell in which no cell wall has de- veloped ; undifferentiated protoplasm. Plaster.—In Pharmacy a plaster (or plaister) consists of a solid or semi-solid ad- hesive substance spread upon a piece of muslin or skin; it is used as a means of applying medicines to the skin, of supporting underlying parts, or of closing wounds. See Jacket, Plaster ; Plaster of Paris ; etc. Plaster of Paris.—A white plaster consisting of gypsum (sulphate of lime), which, when mixed with water, swells and quickly sets; it is used for taking casts and for forming a casing to keep injured parts (fractured or dis- located limbs) immobile ; it is so named because the gypsum used to be obtained near Mont- martre, Paris. See Bandages {Fixed); Spine, Surgical Affections of {Spinal Caries, Treat- ment). Plastic.—In Surgery plastic means re- parative, e.g. a plastic operation {i.e. one for the repair of injured or destroyed parts); in Pathology it means formative or capable of being organised, e.g. plastic lymph, plastic bron- chitis ; in both meanings the root is the same, viz. Gr. 7rXa(T(TiLv, to mould or form. See Bronchi, Bronchitis {Clinical Varieties, Plas- tic) ; Nerves, Peripheral {Injuries, Treatment); Palate {Cleft, Treatment); Skin Grafting and Allied Procedures. Plasticine.—A proprietary preparation which can be easily moulded or modelled; it can be used for teaching purposes in Anatomy and Surgery, etc. Plastid and Plastidule.—A small mass of protoplasm; the unit or ultimate par- ticle of living matter (hypothetical). Plastin. — The chief proteid of proto- plasm ; it contains phosphorus. PlastoprolepsiS. —Premature de- velopment of a part. Plastron. — The sternum with the at- tached costal cartilages as it is separated and raised from the chest in making a post-mortem examination. Plate.—A flattened structure, such as a thin layer of bone {e.g. the orbital plate of the frontal bone) or of forming substance {e.g. the mesoblastic plates of Embryology). Platelet.—A small plate, e.g. the circular or oval bodies found in the blood, which are about one-thii-d the diameter of the red cor- puscles. See Physiology, Blood and Lymph {Cells of Blood, Platelets). PlathelminthS. — Flat-worms. See Parasites {Helminths, Plathelminths). PlatiCUlture. — The development of bacteria on plates. PlatodeS. See Parasites {Helminths, Plathelminths). Platy-.—In compound words platy- (Gr. TrXarvs, broad) has the meaning of flat or broad, e.g. platystomous (having a broad mouth) and platyurous (having a flat tail). Platycephalic — Having a broad or flat head; having a cranium with a vertical index of less than 70. PlatycnemiC. — Having a broad or flattened tibia (Gr. kv-i^/jlt], the tibia). PlatyhieriC.—Having a broad sacrum (Gr. lepov, the sacrum) or one with an index exceeding 100. (The index is got by multiply- ing the breadth by 100 and dividing by the height.) PI aty m esat i ce p h al i c. — Having a head which is both platycephalic and mesati- cephalic. Platypellie—Having a flat pelvis, e.g. one with a brim-index under 85° (Gr. Tre'AAa, a wooden bowl). PlatypygO*^S-—Having broad buttocks (Gr. TTvyi], the buttocks or rump). Platyrrhine.—Having the nose broad and flat, the nasal index being from 51 to 58 ; also the name applied to the apes of the New World, which have the nostrils wide apart and the thumbs non-opposable or nearly so. Platysma. — A thin, broad layer of muscle found immediately below the skin of the neck in the human subject; it represents the panniculus carnosus of animals. Playfair Treatment. See Neuras- thenia {Treatment, Weir-Mitchell Method). Plenum System.—A propulsion sys- tem of ventilation. See Ventilation and Warm- ing {Plenum System). PleO- or PleiO".—in compound words pleo- or pleio- (Gr. ttX^lov, more) has the meaning of "more than one," e.g. pleiomastia and pleio-