PULSE, THE 385 In addition, an estimate should be made of the compressibility of the pulse beneath the finger: —whether it is soft or hard. The rhythm of the pulse must always be noted, whether it is regular or irregular, and also the character of the arterial walls, whether they are thickened, atheromatous, or unduly contracted. Frequency of the Pulse The frequency of the pulse may be affected by many conditions which, either directly or indirectly, act upon the heart. To refer briefly to the direct causes which may influence the heart's action, mention may be made of the state of distension of the ventricles. If the heart is well filled it contracts better, though this is also determined partly by the state of the arterial resistance ahead. The frequency of the heart-beat is closely related to the condition of the arteries—dilatation of the vessels causes quickening of the heart, while their contraction may lead to marked slowing. The rate of the beat is also affected in a striking manner—increased or slowed—by the character and quantity of the blood supplied to the heart muscle through the coronary arteries. It is highly important to bear this in mind, for the myocardium may suffer both from the effects of various toxins carried to it in the blood current, and also from a simple deficiency of blood. As is well known, the heart muscle may be profoundly affected by the toxins of many of the specific fevers, by anaemia, Bright's disease, gout, plumbism, alcohol, etc.; and, in pneumonia, muscle failure of the heart may result from the greatly lowered blood pressure, which interferes with the adequate blood supply to the cardiac walls through the coronary arteries. Temperature may directly affect the heart's action. A poultice applied to the precordial region quickens the beat; an ice-bag slows it. The heart may, in a similar manner, be directly accelerated by the presence of hot liquids in the stomach, and also, perhaps, from direct pressure due to a distended stomach. Lastly, among direct causes are the influences exerted over the heart by the vagus and sym- pathetic nerves. There are a large number of indirect causes which affect the frequency of the pulse. ^ Muscular exercise is one of the most con- spicuous causes of increased pulse frequency. In some people the frequency may increase by 50 beats per minute with the exertion of run- ning to catch a train. Violent dumb-bell exer- cise will produce the same result. The pulse- ^ For ii full and connected account of the pulse as it is affected by age, sex, posture, exercise, food, and other natural causes, the reader is referred to an article by Dr. Guy in Todd's Cyclopcedia of Anatomy and Phvsioloqy, vol. iv., 1847-49. VOL. VIII rate quickly returns to the normal in healthy persons after exercise, unless the active move- ments have been long continued. The taking of food and drink—apart from stimulants—accelerates the pulse. Hot water, or more especially hot whisky-and-water, quickens the pulse, but a large draught of any cold liquid may slow it. It is interesting to note that, quite apart from the taking of food and drink, the movements of mastication, suck- ing, and swallowing produce a marked increase in the pulse-rate. Kronecker has shown that the act of swallowing seems to remove entirely the inhibitory action of the vagus upon the heart for the time being, and, according to Brunton, a glass of water slowly sipped may quicken the pulse-rate from 68 to 92 beats per minute. Mental conditions and various emotional states affect the pulse-rate very considerably, either temporarily, e.g. when a healthy indi- vidual is being examined for life insurance, or more permanently, in persons who have sus- tained some severe shock to the nervous system, as from fright or grief. The temperature of the skin indirectly modi- fies the pulse frequency in a reflex manner. The left ventricle responds very precisely to the call of the peripheral tissues for more blood. Thus in a heated room the peripheral vessels dilate, and the ventricle responds by beating- more quickly ; if they contract, as happens in a cold atmosphere, the heart-beat becomes less frequent. Clothing, by supplying warmth, increases the rate of the pulse ; exposure of the naked body to the cold air slows it. The pulse- rate is found to increase in tropical climates, and is diminished in the Arctic regions. The position of the body is an important matter with regard to pulse frequency. In recumbency the rate may become much slower than normal, and when a child is kept in bed for a considerable period the pulse may become remarkably slow and irregular. The same con- dition is found in children during sleep. The heart-beat varies a good deal according to the time of day. Its action is slowest very early in the morning, between two and four o'clock— this is the time when all the vital functions are at their lowest. It rises up to its maximum about ten or eleven in the morning, then comes down, but rises again between two and three o'clock in the afternoon, then keeps steadily going down again. This is the regular rhythmic way of the heart. Change of position of the body—e.g. from the sitting to the erect posture—markedly affects the pulse-rate even in healthy persons, but the effect is not the same at all periods of the day. The greatest average difference occurs before noon. An increase of not more than 5 to 10 beats per minute is normal, and may be taken as evidence that the heart muscle is in 25