575 RHEUMATISM, CHRONIC patient's own attention was the state of the urine. It has persistently had a very strong odour, and was described by the patient as being frequently offensive. This patient is an interesting and by no means uncommon type of case, which illustrates the very close relation- ship that exists between rheumatoid arthritis and so-called chronic rheumatism. Comparative Pathology.—Our knowledge of the clinical features, pathology, and treatment of rheumatism in the lower animals is in the same incomplete state as our knowledge of these affec- tions in man. Horses, cattle, dogs, and pigs are known to be the subjects of disorders which in their clinical features present a close parallel to those affections in the human subject, and from a study of these diseases we may gain valuable information regarding the etiology of kindred affections in man. For our present purpose we may consider that the crucial question is. Do we find in the lower animals diseases which are clinically and pathologically identical with the following diseases as at present recognised in the human subject?—- (i.) Acute rheumatism. (ii.) Chronic rheumatism. (iii.) Rheumatoid arthritis or osteo-arthritis. In answering these questions it will appear that veterinary surgeons have seen no reason to distinguish, or at least have not distinguished, chronic rheumatism and rheumatoid arthritis as two classes of disease. They simply dif- ferentiate them by the measure of severity in the involvement of the joints. The writer has de- voted some attention to comparative pathology, and in addition to the knowledge derived from a direct clinical study of these conditions in the lower animals, he has obtained much infor- mation from available literature, as well as from friends in the veterinary profession. (i.) Acute Rheumatism.—Animals are liable to an acute fever, characterised by a more or less sudden onset of high temperature, with painful enlargement of and effusion into the joints. The wrist and ankle are the joints most affected, and in them the pain is extreme. Metastasis is a prominent feature of this disease. Endocarditis and other cardiac conditions are frequent concomitants, and may lead to a fatal termination. The resiilt may be (a) death from cardiac inflammation, (6) complete recovery, or (c) incomplete recovery, some local weakness being left in the affected joints. It is interest- ing to note that this disease is relatively more common in cattle than in horses. The analogy to acute rheumatism in the human subject is reasonably complete. (ii. and iii.) Chronic Rheumatism and Rheu- matoid Arthritis.—Symptoms attributed to chronic rheumatism and rheumatoid arthritis are extremely common in the lower animals, especially in horses, dogs, pigs, and cattle. We may say at the outset that, as less is known about the clinical features and morbid anatomy of these two conditions in animals than in man, it is necessary to discuss them together, merely submitting a brief outline of the clinical features and pathology on which their diagnoses are based. So far as I have been able to learn, the term rheumatoid arthritis, or more commonly osteo-arthritis, is applied to the cases which ex- hibit a more severe involvement of the joint, e.g. much irregular formation of new bone, muscular atrophy, with marked permanent disablement; while the term rheumatism is applied to a less severe articular lesion and to involvement of muscles, tendons, and tendon sheaths, bursas, and nerves. The former class is natvirally com- paratively rare, as such animals are commercially useless, and are destroyed at a comparatively early stage of the disease, while in the less serious type of rheumatism, with less severe articular symptoms, the animal is able to do a fair amount of work. Thus we find that these latter cases form a not inconsiderable proportion of the subjects that come under the veterinary surgeon's care. It is convenient to consider this condition under the following headings :— Articular Type of Rheumatism other than Acute. — (a) Chronic.—The disease is mainly, but by no means entirely, one of adult life and old age ; cases in young animals, four and seven years, are by no means rare. The usual sites are the hip, spine, ankle, and wrist, but any joint may be involved. The clinical features are stiffness and pain in the limb, with swelling of the joint. The enlargement is due to an increase in the articular ends of the bones, or in the soft tissues entering into the formation of the joint. In some cases it is due to involve- ment of the bursEe or tendons in close proximity to the joint. ^Marked creaking may be elicited on movement of the limb. Investigation also may show that this animal never lies down at night, a symptom usually attribiited to anky- losis of the lumbar spine. It is not an un- common thing to find in a large stable of horses one or more animals in active work that are partially slung up at night so as to prevent them lying down. This precaution is advisable owing to their inability to raise themselves. Such an animal is vei-y stiff" in the morning, and may require a little exercise before being fit for even a light day's work. The creaking heard on movement may be due either to disease in the joint or in the muscles surroimding it. The muscles and tendons on the flexor aspect of the joint are usually unduly hard and contracted. In mild cases, when the animal gets warmed to his work, all stiffness and lameness may dis- appear, and nothing further may be determined about the case except that he is subject to con- stipation, and voids urine that is turbid and evidently unduly charged with salts of various kinds. A careful examination into the history will usually reveal the fact that the animal