PNEUMONIA—CLINICAL SECTION 187 head, the use of the menthol cone or of ice in stroking the brow—these simple means should in the first instance be tried. Only when they fail should more active measures be resorted to. In coincident bronchial catarrh, or where " piirulent infiltration" of the lung is taking- place, turpentine is a sheet-anchor. It may be given in the form of capsules, or in punch or mixture. Turpentine punch is best made by rubbing a little lemon rind on a lump of white sugar, then dropping 15 to 20 minims of spirit of turpentine upon the sugar, and dissolving it in a wine-glassful of whisky punch. Turpentine is prescribed in a mixtui'e as follows:— R Spiritus terebinthinse, 5iij. Ovi vitellum unum. Tare at misce bene— Spiritus setheris nitrosi, 3iij. Spiritus chloroformi, 3ij. Aquse menthse piperitte, ad 3viij. Signa: Half an ounce to an ounce for a dose. Other complications must, of course, be dealt with as they arise, but on all occasions and in all circumstances the physician should re- member to avoid the " nimia diligentia medici " in treating a disease like pneumonia, which so pre-eminently is periodic, and tends to get well of itself, perhaps in spite of a fussy and ill-named " heroic " treatment. Pneumonitis.—Pneumonia (q.v.) Pneumono-. — In compound words pneumono- (Gr. Trvfv/jLujv, the lungs) means re- lating to the lungs, pulmonary. PneumonOCeie.—Hernia of the lung. Pneumonokoniosis.—This term (Gr. ■TTvevfiwv, lung, and kovis, dust) is given to all the affections of the lungs in which there is chronic inflammatory induration of the pulmon- ary tissues due to the irritation produced by inhaled particles of coal dust (anthracosis), of metals such as iron or steel (siderosis), or of min- erals such as silica (chalicosis). See Lungs, Pneu- monokoniosis ; Lung, Tuberculosis {Predispos- ing Factors). PneumonomycosiS.—Disease of the lungs due to fungi. See Lungs, Parasitic Affections of {Aspergillosis, etc.). Pneumopericardium.—The pre sence of air or gas in the pericardial sac. See Pericardium, Diseases of {Pneumopericardium). Pneu moperitoneu m.—Thepresence of air or gas in the peritoneal cavity. Pneumopyothorax. — The presence of air and pus in the pleural sac. Pneumorrhagia. — Pulmonary apo- plexy or haemorrhagic infarct. PneumotllOrax.—The presence of air or gas in the pleural cavity. See Aspiration {For Therapeutic Purposes); Mediastinum {Medi- astinal Emphysema); Peritoneum, Acute Peri- tonitis {Subphrenic Abscess, Diagnosis); Pleura, Diseases of {Pneumothorax); Pleura, Surgical Affections of {Injuries causing Pneumothorax); Typhoid Fever {Complications). Pneumotomy.—Incision of the lung. PneumotOXine.—The poisonous albu- minoid substance produced by the pneumococcus and believed to be the cause of many of the symptoms of pneumonia; an antitoxin {anti- pneumotoxine) is believed to be present in the blood of the patients who recover. Pneumotyphus or Pneumo- ty p ll O i d. — Pneumonia occurring during typhoid fever or pneumonia due to the typhoid bacillus. See Typhoid Fever {Symptoms). Pock.—A vesicle or pustule such as forms in smallpox or in chickenpox; also, the disease in which such an eruption appears, e.g. the great pox or syphilis and the smallpox or variola. Podagfra.—Gout, especially the typical form of the disease in which the great toe is affected (Gr. ttoij's, foot, aypa, a catching). See Gout. Podaig'ia.—Pain in the foot, as in gout. PodaiiC Version.—That form of turn- ing the foetus during labour in which the feet are brought out first. PodenceplialUS.—That form of mon- strosity in which the upper part of the cranium is defective and allows the contents to lie ex- posed ; median mero-acrania. Podex. — The rump or gluteal regions (Lat. podex, the anus or fundament). Pododynia.—Pain in the foot, especially when neuralgic in kind. Podopiiylli Resina.—Obtained from the dried rhizome of Podophyllum peltatum, the American mandrake or May apple. It is also ^nown as. podophylli7i. Dose—^-1 gr. Prepara- tion—Tinctura Podophylli. Dose—5-15 m. A non-official Tinctura Podophylli Ammoniata is also prepared, dose—5-20 m., which has the ad- vantage that the addition of water to it does not precipitate the resin. Podophyllin is used only for its purgative action. In small doses it is laxative, in large ones cholagogue. It is very slow in its action, and, if given in combination with more rapidly