PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 2 Clotting or Coagulation.—In the course of about three minutes the blood when shed be- comes a solid jelly. The process starts from the sides of the vessel, and spreads throughout the blood until, when clotting is complete, the vessel may be inverted without the blood falling out. In a short time, drops of clear fluid appear upon the surface of the clot, and in a few hours these have accumulated to a considerable extent, while the clot has contracted and drawn away from the sides of the vessel, until it finally floats in the clear fluid—the serum. If clotting occurs slowly, as it does in the horse, the erythrocytes subside, leaving a layer of clear plasma above, which, when coagulation takes place, forms a " bufFy layer" in the upper part of the clot. Clotting is due to changes in the plasma, since this fluid will coagulate in the absence of corpuscles. The change may be represented thus :— Blood Plasma Corpuscles I I Serum Clot The change consists in the formation of a series of fine elastic threads of fibrin throughout the plasma, and if red corpuscles are present they are entangled in the meshes of the network and give the clot its red colour. These threads may be readily collected in mass upon a stick with which the blood is whipped as it is shed. The red fluid blood which is left, consisting of blood cells and serum, is said to be defibrinated. Fibrin is a protein substance. It is slowly dissolved in solutions of neutral salts. It is coagulated by heat, and is precipitated when an excess of a neutral salt is added. It is therefore a globulin. The plasma before clotting and the serum squeezed out from the clot both contain in the same proportion an albumin (serum albumin) and a globulin, or series of globulins which may be classed together as serum globulin. But the plasma contains a small quantity—about 0'4 per cent—of another globulin (fibrinogen) which coagulates at a low temperature, and which is absent from serum. It is this which undergoes the change from the soluble form to the insoluble form in coagulation. If, by taking advantage of the fact that it is more easily precipitated by sodium chloride than the other proteins, it is separated from them, it may still be made to clot. The substance which usually causes clotting- appears to be an enzyme, which is formed by the action of calcium salts or ions on a pro- enzyme set free in the blood. The enzyme may be called thrombin, and its precursor pro- thrombin. Oxalates, when added to blood, pre- cipitate the soluble calcium salts, and prevent the formation of thrombin, and thus prevent coagulation. It is not yet quite clear what brings about this change of prothrombin into thrombin. Calcium salts or calcium ions and prothrombin may exist together without thrombin being formed, and it has been suggested that another enzyme is required to activate the thrombin— a thrombokinase as it has been called. This may be liberated from the cellular elements of the blood and tissues. The steps in the process of clotting might therefore be represented as follows :— Thrombokinase Prothrombin Calcium Salts Thrombin-5>Fibrinogen }. Fibrin Many circumstances influence the rapidity of clotting. Temperature has a marked eilect; a low temperature retarding it, a slight rise of temperature above the normal of the particular animal accelerating it. If a trace of a neutral salt be added to blood, coagulation is acceler- ated ; but, if blood be mixed with strong solu- tions of salt, coagulation is prevented because the formation of thrombin is checked. Calcium salts have a marked and important action, and if they are precipitated by the addition of oxalate of soda, blood will not clot, apparently because thrombin cannot be formed. The injection into the blood-vessels of a living animal of commercial peptones^ which chiefly consist of proteoses, or of hirudin, an extract of the head of the medicinal leech, retards coagula- tion after the blood is shed. They appear to cause the development in the liver of some body of the nature of an antithrombin which checks coagulation, and if the liver be excluded from the circulation this is not developed. Why is it that blood does not coagulate in the vessels and does coagulate when shed 1 Such a general statement is not absolutely correct, for blood m&j be made to coagulate in the vessels of a living animal in various ways. If inflammation is induced in the course of a vessel, coagulation at once occurs. If the inner coat of a vessel be torn, as by a ligature, or if any roughness occurs on the inner wall of a vessel, coagulation is apt to be set up. Again, various substances injected into the bloodstream may cause the blood to coagulate, and thus rapidly kill the animal. Among such sub- stances are extracts of various organs—thymus, testis, and lymph glands — which yield thrombo- kinase, and snake venom which seems to con- tain active thrombin. The injection of pure thrombin does not usually cause clotting, because an anti-thrombin is developed.