PUEltPERIUM, PHYSIOLOGY OF 357 with the exception of the cervix, being antemic. The cervix is congested and will bleed easily; post-partum haemorrhage from the torn cervix is most marked where the pelvis is large (be- cause the uterus does not plug so efficiently) or contracted (because the uterus cannot sink down). The cervix, which at the end of labour is soft and limp, and which passes insensibly into the body of the uterus, gradually resumes its normal characteristics within the first fourteen days ; by this time the arbor vitge shows its characteristic folds, the canal has narrowed, and the internal os is readily distinguished. By the twenty-first day the canal has contracted to the normal calibre, and the internal os is sharply defined. At the end of the sixth week the cervix is quite normal. ii. Microscopical Gharacter&.—Wm. H\inter taught that the post-partum uterus is lined by a " stratum " of decidual membrane ; Cruveil- hier and Heschl, in later times, held the view that the uterus was laid bare down to the muscle. Matthews Duncan supported Hunter's view, which has been confirmed by the work of Friedlainder, Kundrat and Engelmann, Lang- hans, Leopold, Klistner, Turner, and others. This stratum is about 2 mm. in thickness, and consists of uterine glands imbedded in inter- glandular tissue. The glands are lined, at their deeper part, by a cubical epithelium; in the middle portion, where the dilatation of the glands gives the appearance which has led to the designation of " the spongy layer," the epithelium is often wanting. In many cases the line of cleavage in the separation of the membranes appears to have passed through this layer; but in other cases a more superficial and compact portion of the glands remains, and here the epithelium is again found, of a columnar type. A surface epithelium also is sometimes present. In the portion of the decidual area nearest the cervix the mucosa is generally found in a more complete form than in the area nearer the placental site. The mode of involution of the uterine muscle was also formerly a disputed point. Kilian (1849), who believed that the hypertrophy of the uterus during pregnancy was due both to enlargement of existing muscle fibres and to the new formation of others, held that both kinds of muscle-fibre disappeared completely by a pro- cess of fatty degeneration. Heschl supported this view of involution, saying that, of the uterus which existed before labour, not a fibre survived. Kolliker also attributed involution to fatty degeneration, but thought that most of the muscle-fibres remained, though they dimin- ished in length and thickness. Robin (1848- 1861) held a quite different view, maintaining that the process was one of simple atrophy without fatty degeneration, and that none of the muscle-fibres disappeared. Meola (1885) attributed the regression of the muscle-fibres to a process of cirrhosis due to a rapid proliferation of the intra-muscular fibrous tissue. Sanger (1888) denied the proliferation of the connective tissue, but supported the doctrine of fatty de- generation, without, however, any disappearance of muscular fibres. Mayor's (1888) explanation was very similar to Sanger's. Helme (1889), in a careful investigation, revised the qiiestion, and his conclusions are now accepted as final. He finds that involution "does not bring about a destruction of the cells. It is merely a transi- tion from larger to smaller dimensions. ... It is an incomplete atrophy—not a numerical, but a simple physiological atrophy; the process in each fibre goes on to a certain point and then stops—the fibre remains, only it is of smaller volume." As to the way in which this is brought about, Helme finds no evidence what- ever of fatty degeneration ; neither is there any increase of connective tissue. " The change is one of physiological retrogression; the actual chemical character is not revealed by the micro- scope, but it is probable that the cell-protoplasm undergoes a sort of peptonisation—all the sur- plus material that is no longer required being changed into some more soluble substance, which finds its way into the surrounding lymph." Helme's explanation of the process receives some support from Fischel's researches, according to which peptonuria is a constant feature of the puerperium, whilst peptone is also found in the lochia and in the uterine muscle. Helme found that there was a gradvial and progressive diminution in amount and disappearance of the connective tissue. Some of the connective tissue fibres during the first three days swell up and become hyaline, eventually breaking down into granules. The connective tissue cells also become more and more granular, and their nuclei are greatly changed, breaking up into fragments. In some places the destruction is so complete that all traces of connective tissue fibres are lost, their place being taken by a clear matrix containing a mass of entangling granules and degenerating leucocytes, and corpuscles and nuclei. Scattered through this are the large plasmodia, which begin to be formed in the later days of preg- nancy, and whose function is evidently to eat up the waste material lying around them. At the same time, large granular epithelioid cells are found, with a single clear vesicular nucleus ; on the sixth day they are found to be almost filled with bright yellow granules derived from the disintegrating red blood-corpuscles. In both arteries and veins there is observed in the smaller vessels a process, first of com- pression, then of obliteration; whilst many of the larger vessels exhibit a proliferation of the intima, which results in a complete blocking of the lumen, and the conversion of the vessel into a fibrous cord which ultimately disap-