203 POST-MORTEM METHODS cause irregular enlargement of the body of the uterus, and if sub-serous, may form large projections from its surface. In advanced malignant new-growths origin- ating in the cervix, the lower part of the uterus may be destroyed, leaving an irregular cavity bridged across transversely by the remains of the fundus and the Fallopian tubes attached to it. The Fallopian tubes pass outwards from the cornua of the uterus along the upper borders of the broad ligament. They vary in length, and their outer extremity, which is fimbriated, turns more or less backwards. The outer end may be occluded, leading to dilatation of the tube with watery, purulent, or hsemorrhagic fluid. Enlargement of the tube may be due to salpingitis, tubal gestation, or tumour-growth. The internal lining membrane is normally thrown into numerous longitudinal folds, which are most evident towards the outer extremity. A small pear-shaped, thin-walled cyst, the hydatid of Morgagni, is frequently seen attached to the fimbriated end, and is not abnormal. The ovaries are attached by a fold of peri- toneum to the posterior surface of the broad ligament. They are usually about the size of an almond in its shell. In old age they become hard, atrophied, and scarred on the surface. In peritonitis they may be covered with lymph, which may be purulent. If inflamed, they are enlarged, soft, and congested, and may contain abscesses. New-growths may be solid—cancer, sarcoma, fibro-myoma—or cystic. The cystic growths are important. They may be of great size and weight, projecting far up into the abdomen. They may be of the compound cystic variety, the cysts containing a glairy, viscid fluid, or the cysts may present papillomatous ingrowths, or similar projections on their outer surfaces. In these two varieties nothing apparently is left of the ovary. The Fallopian tube may not be greatly altered. Large single cysts, over which the Fallopian tube is stretched, develop from the parovarium — a foetal structure lying between the ovary and Fallopian tube. In this case the flattened ovary can iisually be made out on the lower wall of the cyst. Dermoid cysts, full of fatty material, and containing hair, teeth, and other representatives of organs, or parts of organs, may develop in the ovary. They are usually smaller than the cysts already described. Graafian Follicle.—A Graafian follicle, after rupture in menstruation, appears as a brownish rounded cyst not larger than a pea, the colour being due to hfemorrhage into the cyst. Later the colour changes to yellow—corpus luteum— from organisation of the clot and fatty degenera- tion of the epithelium. Later still the fibrous tissue formed contracts, and a scar results. The corpus luteum of pregnancy is larger, and may remain of some size until the end of pregnancy, whereas that of menstruation re- mains for a few months only. Small cysts of the ovary may result from simple " dropsy " or distension of a Graafian follicle. To examine the Uterus further, it is advisable to remove it from the body along with a portion of the vagina. The method of procedure is practically the same as followed in removal of the male pelvic organs, cutting through the vagina low down, on the same level as the rectum and urethra. Open up and examine the rectum as in the male. If normal, dissect it away from the vagina. Then, if the bladder be still attached, slit up the vagina in the middle line posteriorly. Note presence of lacerations or ulcerations of its surface. If discharges be present note whether they come from vagina or os uteri. Note amount of projection of the cervix uteri, which is proportionately longer than normal in " conical cervix " and in infants. External Os.—^The nulliparous os is round and smooth ; the parous os is transverse and fissured. The mucous membrane surrounding may be red and rough—" erosion "—or pro- trudes as a soft red mass, which may be mis- taken for malignant disease. Occlusion of the OS is rare. Extensive destruction of the cervix occurs usually from malignant disease. Cajicer may be squamous-celled, starting from the vaginal portion of the cervix, or tubular, starting from the mucous membrane lining the cervix, or from the glands opening on its surface. The surface of the tumour is usually very irregular, ulcerated, or warty. Non-malignant polypi of the cervix project through it; they are glandular and small in size. Fibroids occur rarely in the cervix, though pedunculated uterine fibroids may pro- ject through it. Open up the cervix and uterus in the middle line, and extend the incision into the Fallopian tubes. Note the consistence and thickness of the uterine walls. The normal cervix is fusiform in shape and rugose on its inner surface. Distinction of cervix from uterus is lost in cases of recent delivery. It may be elongated or hyper- trophied. The body of the uterus may show rounded, encapsuledj^6ro-7»yo»ta<a—firm bodies, on section fasciculated and glistening. They may reach a great size, and project internally or externally. They may become pedunculated. The uterine 'polypus is usually a pedunculated submucous fibroid. Malignant disease of the uterus usually