490 KECTUM, DISEASES OF THE Lupoid and Rodent Ulceration of Anus and Ebctum.—Lupoid ulcer of the rectum differs from the same malady on the face by being terribly painful and much less curable. The disease is happily uncommon. In its early stages lupoid ulcer resembles a syphilitic sore or a rodent ulcer. It is distinguished from syphilitic and epitheliomatous aflfections by these peculi- arities :— (1) It does not invade neighbouring organs, contaminate lymphatics, produce hardness, nor form secondary deposits. (2) It does not lead to stricture of the rectum or any submucous thickening. Its shape is irregular, neither edge nor base is at all hard, and the mucous membrane around is abruptly healthy. It destroys completely as far as it extends, and it tends to spread superficially, and upon mucous membrane rather than upon skin. It often remains stationary, or repair may even proceed rapidly only to be suddenly and rapidly replaced by the original condition. The subjects of lupoid ulcer are almost always tuberculous, and phthisis is generally the cause of death. Tubercle bacilli have been found in the ulcer. The sore is to be thoroughly scraped away with Volkmann's spoon, but benefit is only temporary. Colotomy has been followed by great improA'ement in the condition of the ulcer. Rodent Ulcer.—Sufferers from this com- plaint are rarely under fifty years of age, and usually look ruddy and well. The ulcer resembles that last described, except for its hard, well-defined edges and hard base. The surface is generally red and dry. Free excision is the only useful treatment. Villous Tumour of the Rectum.—This is a rare disease. The growth is just similar to that of the same name found in the bladder. It is attached to the bowel by a broad base, and the peduncle may be as long as three inches. Usually the appearance of having a pedicle is due to the tumour weighing down the mucous membrane. Generally the tumour springs from the posterior wall. The symptoms are :— (1) Descent of the tumour on the bowels acting, or even merely on walking. (2) Discharge of glairy mucus. (3) Haemorrhage. The patient is usually of advanced years. In some cases epithelioma has replaced the removed growth. The growths are sometimes spontaneously shed. They may attain to a large size. Coccygeal Pain.^—Severe pain in female patients is sometimes due to tubercular or rheumatoid arthritic disease of the sacro- coccygeal joint, or to osteitis of the coccyx itself. In other cases it is owing to adhesion in the joint following injury. The cases are intractable, and sometimes only cured by removal of the coccyx, Proctitis occurs in a chronic and an acute form. The former appears in old people, with the symptoms of heat and fulness in the rectum, frequent desire to go to stool, and great tenesmus ; there may be, too, discharge of blood and mucus. Sedative and astringent injections give relief. Acute inflammation of the rectum resembles dysentery, but lacks the abdominal pain and tenderness and the constitutional disturbance. The bladder is affected, and there is difliculty in passing water. Leeches around the anus, hot baths, and injections of small amounts of water as hot as can be borne are effective treatment. No purges should be given. Light, unstimulating diet and the recumbent posture are to be instituted. Rare Growths.—Dermoid cysts, angiomata, and lipomata of the rectum are surgical curi- osities of such rarity that they do not here demand attention. Rectus. — Straight, especially in the terminology of the muscular system; e.g. the rechis abdominis, rectus capitis anticus and posticus, and the rectus femoris. See Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels [Paralysis, Rectus Clonus); Muscles, Traumatic Affections of [Rupture of Rectus Abdominis, Cruris, etc.). Recurrence.—The return of a state or event, e.g. of a high temperature {e.g. recurrent or relapsing fever); in a special sense, recur- rence may mean the reappearance of traits long absent, e.g. atavism. See Hernia {Opera- tive Treatment, Recurrence); Larynx, Neuroses OF {Innervation of the Larynx, Recurrent Laryngeal Nerve); Tropics, Unclassed Fevers OF {Recurrent Fevers) ; Undulant Fever {Synonyms). Recurrent.—Returning, e.g. the recur- rent laryngeal nerve or relapsing fever. Red Blindness. See Colour Vision {Red Blindjiess). Red Corpuscles. See Blood {Cor- puscular Elements); Chlorosis {Pathology) Erythrocytes ; Physiology, Nutrition {Bloo and Lymph, Cells of Blood). Red Gum.—Eucalyptus gum {see EucAL YPTUS Gum) ; also strophulus, or a red papulae eruption seen in infants. Red Lea.d.—Red oxide of lead or minium which may be a cause of danger to health. Se Trades, Dangerous {Lead-Poisoning). Red Lotion.—Lotio rubra. See LoTio Rubra ; Zinc. Red Marrow. See Physiology, Blood and Lymph {Source of the Erythrocytes).