PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—INTRA-UTERINE DISEASES, DEATH OF FCETUS 259 Congenital alopecia, or hypotrichosis, may also be general or local; the former is commonly hereditary, and the latter is due to causes which are not at all well known, but which have some- times been thought to include the antenatal spontaneous cure of a vascular nsevus. Dental defects may be associated. Pigmentary anomalies of the skin are some- times met with at birth. Among these chrom- atoses must be reckoned the well-known 7icevus pigme7itos2is and the rare general melanoderma, in both of which there is an excess of pig- ment in the cutaneous tissues. The pigment may, on the other hand, be absent either in restricted areas of the body, as in the white streaks (sometimes unilateral) seen sometimes in dark-skinned peoples, or as a general affection in albinism. Congenital pemphigus generally points to syphilis, but may sometimes be due apparently to a prenatal abnormal tendency to the forma- tion of bullse quite apart from the infection with syphilis. During birth the bullse are commonly ruptured and the epidermis removed, producing the appearance of bare areas. Congenital absence of the skin and congenital ulcers have quite a different mode of origin. They probably occur when there have been adhesions between the amnion and the foetal skin (sometimes of a tubular nature), and these being torn through in the act of parturi- tion, areas of denuded skin are left to mark the site of the amniotic union. They are of some medico-legal importance, as they may simulate the results of traumatism. Foetal Bone Diseases are very difficult to re- duce to the terminology of adult osseous lesions, for the reason that before birth the skeleton is not yet fully developed. This fact in part accounts for the multiplicity of names which have been given to the foetal maladies of bone, such as chondrodystrophia, periosteal aplasia, foetal rickets, achondroplasia, and osteopsathyrosis. Until their pathology has been more fully in- vestigated, they may all be included under the one name of osteogenesis imperfecta. In some cases there has been found to be a defect in the endochondral ossification alone, in others in the periosteal alone ; in yet other cases the anomaly consists, not in defect, but in excess of formation of one part of the bones, and hypertrophy of the cartilage with absence of true bone forma- tion has been observed. The connection of these maladies with rickets is problematical; at the same time it must not be forgotten that true rickets is occasionally present at birth. The clinical manifestations of osteogenesis im- perfecta consist in friability of the bones, show- ing itself in the occurrence of fractures, which sometimes are very numerous, and which speci- ally affect the long bones; in stunting in the growth of the bones of the limbs, sometimes masked by excessive proliferation of the cartil- age of the epiphyses; and in malformations of the cranial bones, such as the premature ossifica- tion and consequent shortening of the bones of the basis cranii (formation of the os tribasilare). The malady of the bones is not always incompat- ible with extra-uterine life, as is shown by the existence of adult achondroplasiacs. Cases have even occurred in which an achondroplasiac mother has given birth to an infant suffering from the same affection of the skeleton as the parent. Charrin and Gley have succeeded in experimentally producing lesions of the foetal skeleton resembling rickets in rabbits by sub- mitting the parent animals to the influence of the toxines of the bacilli of diphtheria, tubercle, and blue pus. In the human subject it must be confessed that sometimes the parents of infants born with foetal bone disease have been apparently perfectly healthy. General foetal dropsy and so-called foetal rickets have been associated in the same case more than once. Diseases op the Subcutaneous Tissue are not uncommon in the foetus, and their char- acters are somewhat modified by the circum- stance that the structures affected are in an incompletely developed state. The most im- portant is general foetal dropsy or anasarca. It is probably to be regarded rather as a symptom of various foetal morbid states than as a distinct pathological entity. It is characterised by the existence of general anasarca, and by the presence of fluid in the peritoneal, pleural, and pericardial sacs ; there is usually oedema of the placenta also. The dropsy may be so marked as to give a monstrous appearance to the foetus and to obstruct delivery. In its advanced form the disease is quite incompatible with extra- uterine life. Family prevalence has been noted. The mother is not uncommonly dropsical also, and she may be the subject of cardiac, renal, or hepatic disease ; hydramnios is an almost con- stant concomitant. It would seem that in some cases a purely foetal cause of the dropsy is in existence, such as premature closure of the foramen ovale, absence of the thoracic duct, foetal leuksemia, and cystic degeneration of the kidneys; but in other instances a maternal cause has to be looked for, such as anaemia, nephritis, or malaria. Some observers have re- garded dropsy of the placenta as the starting- point of the whole morbid process. It is evident, however, that the dropsy is only a symptom, and may be due to a number of pathogenic circumstances. In its most deform- ing degree general dropsy is met with in the twin foetus, especially in the allantoido-angiopagous twin or placental parasite. No treatment has yet been successful in preventing or in curing the malady, although chlorate of potash and iron in one case seemed to prevent the occur- rence of premature labour, which is often the termination of a gestation in which the foetus is dropsical.