1 RHEUMATISM—RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS 565 suggest the need of further observation of heart conditions in this disease. The urine usually presents no important changes from the normal. Angel Money found excess of urea and uric acid, and occasionally glycosuria. Drackmann and Bocker both found diminution of phosphates. Schiiller constantly finds a diminution of calcium salts and earthy phosphates, a low specific gravity, and a reaction either faintly acid or neutral in the variety he calls arthritis deformans, i.e. where bones rather than soft parts are chiefly affected. Van Noorder, RumpfF, and others have noted similar changes, and Schiiller considers them charac- teristic. Bain {Edin. Med. Journal, 1900) analysed the urine in one case only, and found diminished excretion of uric acid. Occasional accompaniments of rheumatoid arthritis, which have received a good deal of study, and which frequently occur in the same subject, are—- (a) A chronic bursitis with thickening of the walls of the bursa, and some fluid effusion. This is well seen in the bursa over the olecranon, and may be present near joints in both the upper and lower extremities. (b) Subcutaneous fibrous nodules, resembling in some respects the nodules which occur in true rheumatism. Fig. 5 shows both these con- Fia. 5. ditions in a marked degree. The bursa over the olecranon on both sides formed a visible tumour, and its walls were greatly thickened. Several hard bodies could be felt within its cavity. The swellings were painless, and had always been so. The smaller swellings were due to sub- cutaneous fibrous nodules, oval, flattened, pain- less, and freely movable. These nodules differ from those characteristic of true rheumatism in certain particulars. 1. They appear in late life. 2. They persist longer than is usual with those of acute rheumatism. In the patient shown in Fig. 5 the nodules are known to have remained unaltered for three years. 3. The history of acute rheumatism is not usually obtained, nor is there any evidence pointing to its presence, or to the presence of active and progressive cardiac complications. While in hospital the patient referred to above developed a new nodule on the right olecranon. It was at first the size of a hemp seed, decidedly tender on pressure, and grew very slowly. It felt precisely like a true rheu- matic nodule. In this case the nodules were confined to the arms. There was no history of acute rheumatism. Ganglion-like distention of the sheaths of the tendons of the muscles of the hands have been described. The course varies within very wide limits. The disease may progress with appalling rapidity, one joint after another being quickly involved, until the patient becomes a helpless cripple, unable to walk, stand, or feed himself, and with many joints fixed and useless. Such severe cases occur usually in younger patients. The affection may be much less acute than this, and for years after the nature of the illness is recognisable the patient is able to live an ordinary life, complaining only of pain, stiffness, and some disfigurement of joints. The activity of the affection varies at different times, and conditions affecting the general health adversely also make the joints worse. In some cases in elderly subjects no complaint of pain is made, though the hands show to a typical degree the bony changes which have been described, and are markedly deformed. There is no evidence that such hands have ever passed through a stage when there was spindle- shaped swelling of the joints of the fingers or pain. The patients have usually laboured hard, and the hand presents the character which Lane has described as mechanical or traumatic arthritis. Washerwomen exhibit this condition typically. (b) Acute Polyarticular Rheumatoid Arthritis The occurrence of an acute form has long been known and its clinical characters described. Later work has emphasised the importance of this variety of the disease, and it has received careful study, especially as regards etiology, since the possible bacterial origin of rheumatoid arthritis has engaged the attention of authors. Although no hard-and-fast line can be drawn between this form and the more acute cases of the so-called chronic variety, certain features are worthy of attention. As regards etiology. Age.—It occurs before middle life, chiefly in children and in young adults, but is not unknown later. The case shown in Fig. 1 began at thirty-nine. It is a notable fact that some, at least, of the cases occur in definite association with septic infection. Suppurative tonsillitis, otitis media, suppuration in bone, behind the plate of false teeth, and gonorrhoea, have been present in the history of these cases. The influence of pyorrhoea alveolaris and other septic con-