148 PLEURA, DISEASES OF outset appropriate measures—such as morphia or ether by hypodermic administration, and the exhibition of alcohol^—must be employed. If there be evidence of excessive intrathoracic pressure a fine trocar should be introduced, and some of the contained air allowed to escape. It must not be forgotten that this procedure is attended by the danger that the diminution of the intrathoracic pressure may cause the re- opening of the perforation of the pulmonary cavity in cases where pneumothorax has arisen in advanced phthisis. Hence great caution should be used, and aspiration is not to be employed. If, as is almost invariable, fluid as well as air be present in the pleural cavity, some of it should be withdrawn and examined. Dr. Finlay is of opinion that if the fluid be serous " the general condition of the patient will be no worse than if air alone were present; probably, indeed, better, as the pressure exerted on the lung may tend to check the progress of disease in it, and will promote the effectual sealing up of the perforation. If the liquid be foetid pus nothing but harm can come from letting it remain in the pleura, and it ought to be evacuated at once." The same authority, referring to cases where the fluid is purulent but not foetid, advises that, " if the pneumo- thorax have resulted from rupture of an empyema into the lung, the chest should be freely opened and drained, and the same would hold good if the empyema had ruptured through the chest wall, the opening which nature makes not being, as a rule, sufficient for free drainage. And even in the case of pneumothorax of tuberculous origin a consideration of general principles dictates the free evacuation of the pus." As to the propriety of leaving a serous effusion in pneumothorax undisturbed there can be no second opinion. Such cases are, however, of little practical importance. Foetid pus should, it is clear, be promptly evacuated by incision and drainage. The treatment of pneumothorax consequent upon empyema is not quite so certain. There is much to be said for the advisability of freely opening the chest in the hope that the pus will thus easily drain from the most dependent part, and that the broncho- pleural fistula will close, but success will some- times attend an expectant policy. Two of the best cases of recovery which have occurred in the writer's practice were cases belonging to this class, in which for various reasons no operative measures were undertaken. Opera- tion in cases of pneumothorax consequent upon the rupture of a vomica into the pleural cavity is of most doubtful expediency. Many of these cases are already hopeless. The patients, as a rule, are ill fitted to bear operative interference. There is always the bare chance that the occur- rence of pneumothorax may not alter the patient's condition for the worse. In view of these considerations, the safer rule would appear to be to recommend operation only when the urgency of the symptoms or the special indica- tions of the individual case would appear to indicate its advisability. The general treatment of pneumothorax in cases which survive the early dangers of the condition must be on tonic and hygienic lines. In rare cases success may be achieved when little expected. Malignant Disease of the Pleura.—This subject will be considered in detail in the surgical section. A brief reference to it must suffice in this place. Primary malignant growths are rare in the pleura, but may occur in the form of endothelioma or sarcoma.' Secondary deposits are much more frequent. In such cases the seat of the primary affection is usually the lungs, mediastinum, or mamma. The diagnosis may present considerable diffi- culties until the case has made progress. The onset is insidious, pyrexia is slight, pain is occasionally present and may be severe, but this is not invariable, shortness of breath and cough are usual, and as time goes on progressive emaciation and debility will probably appear. The physical signs are for a time simply those of effusion. Examination of the fluid may give important indications. It is usually hfemor- rhagic, and may contain cancer cells (see " Hoemorrhagic Effusion," p. 134). The fluid may, however, be simply serous, and present no distinctive features. At a later stage signs of pressure will probably appear with displace- ment of organs. The duration of these cases is from a few weeks to from three to six months. The treatment must be on general lines. Paracentesis should not be performed unless it is urgently indicated by pressure symptoms. (See " Surgical Diseases of the Pleura," infra; and " Mediastinum," vol. vi. p. 230 et seq.). Lyinphatics of the Pleura.—As in other serous membranes, lymphatic vessels are abundant in and beneath the pleura. They are found in large numbers in the thin layer of areolar tissue underlying the serous covering. " These vessels communicate on the one side by means of stomata with the pleural cavity, and on the other with a network of similar vessels in the interalveolar septa of the lungs " (Quain). Pleura, Affections of the. B. Surgical Injuries of the Pleura 149 Tumours of the Pleura 149 Exploration of the Pleura — Paracentesis Thoracis 150 Aspiration .... 150 Empyema . . . . . 151 Operative Treatment of 151 Thoracoplasty . . . . . 152 Thorax Resection 152 Estlander's and Schede^s operations 152 Hydatids of the Pleura 153