PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 30 in the distal limb of the tube, and this carries a writing style which records the changes upon a moving surface. With such an apparatus a record such as is shown in Fig. 134 is given. The actual pressure is measured by taking the difference between the level of the mercury in the two limbs of the tube. To make the measurement it is customary to describe an abscissa when the mercury is at the same level G. 135.—-1. The mercurial manometer with recording float, used arterial blood pressure of lower animals; B, the Hill-Bar measuring the arterial pressure in man. in the two sides of the tube. The difference between this and the level of the style at any moment multiplied by two, on account of the depression in the proximal limb which accom- panies the elevation in the distal limb, gives the blood pressure in mm. of mercury. On the record made with such an instrument the rhythmic variations in the arterial blood pressure already considered on p. 27 are clearly visible. In the human subject the arterial pressure may be measured by various methods, some of which give the systolic pressure, i.e. the pressure at the maximum of the pulse wave; while others give the diastolic pressure—the pressure between the pulse waves. As shown on p. 27 the difference between these is most marked in the great arteries, and falls to zero before the capillaries are reached (Fig. 136). To measure the systolic pressure it is necessary to find the pressure which must be applied to an artery in order to prevent the pulse from passing. This may be done with Riva Rocci's apparatus, by applying a bag round the arm so that it rests upon the brachial artery. The bag is firmly strapped on by means of a broad supporting belt, and it is connected with a pump by which the pressure within it may be raised, and with a mercurial manometer by which the pressure applied may be measured in mm. of mercury. The pressure is then raised till the pulse at the wrist is no longer felt, and the column of mercury indicates the systolic pressure in the artery. Instead of using the radial pulse as the index, the passage of blood into a region rendered bloodless may be used. In Gaertner's tono- meter the bag and band are applied round the finger rendered bloodless at a pressure sufficient to pre- vent the blood from pass- ing, and then the pressure is slowly lowered till the blood passes and the finger again flushes. The height of the column of mercury at that moment gives the systolic pressure in the small arteries of the finger. The diastolic pressure may be measured by taking advantage of the fact that when the pressures inside and outside an artery are equal the pulse wave is best marked. A bag and band are applied to the brachial artery, and the movements of the pulse are observed in the column of mercury or on an aneroid barometer in the Hill-Barnard instru- ment, or by a record taken with a small tambour on a revolving cylinder in Erlanger's instrument (Fig. 137). Erlanger's instrument may also be used as the Riva Rocci for systolic pressures, and it is therefore the most valuable instrument for the study of the arterial pressure in the man. B. Results.—By these methods it has been in taking records of the nard sphygmometer, for Fig. 136.—To show the difference between systolic, diastolic, and mean blood pressure throughout the arterial system. S, Systolic pressure; D, diastolic pressure; jU, mean pressure. found that the systolic pressure in the brachial artery of man is about 110 mm. of mercury, while the diastolic pressure is only about 65 mm. The difference between these, of course, gives the pulse pressure or tension. The force of the heart and the degree of peripheral resistance both modify the arterial pressure, and normally these so act together that disturbance of one is compensated for by changes in the other. Thus, if the heart's