RHEUMATISM—RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS 573 Heat locally to joints is a favourite treatment and has undoubted value. Probably dry heat is more efficacious than moist. A simple method is the hot sand bath; it can be employed where- ever sand and an oven are available, and for the hand and wrist is specially useful. The limb is plunged into sand as hot as it can be borne, which is renewed as it cools. Various methods of applying to affected joints dry air raised to high degrees of heat are in use. In the Tallerman method the heat is obtained from gas; the apparatus is of the nature of a gas stove, shaped so as to receive a limb. In the Dowsing and Greville methods the heat is generated by electricity, in the former by means of electric lamps, with reflectors of glass and metal, in the latter by means of small wires in a frame of aluminium. These methods need skilled application and special apparatus, and are necessarily expensive, but the relief obtained is in some cases very striking. Massage is of value in keeping iip the nutrition of muscles and preventing stiffness and fixation of joints. It relieves pain markedly in some cases. In association with the douche it is a most valuable treatment. Cold has been recommended for the relief of pain, either locally in the form of ice-massage (Ewart) or by means of the spinal ice-bag. Ewart advises slowly rubbing the joint with a lump of ice once or twice a day, as a success- ful treatment when hot application fails. Kinnear states that the application of the spinal ice-bag from half an hour to three hours a day relieved the worst cases when every known remedy had been tried and had failed. This author considers the ice-bag improves nutrition and circulation. Electrical treatment apart from baths has been much recommended. Probably the con- stant current is useful in improving the nutri- tion of muscles. Static electricity is said to be of value as a general nerve tonic. Surgical procedures have been employed in the following ways, though none but forced movements are at all generally used in this country:— 1. Operations on joints have been undertaken for the relief of ankylosis when the joint is fixed in a bad position, i.e. in the elbow or the temporo-maxillary joint. Collinson has had successful cases. He considers that operation is only applicable in young patients and where the muscles are not excessively atrophied. Forced movements under an anaesthetic to break down adhesions are employed. They are not free from danger, and may set up acute inflammatory changes. 2. Schiiller and others operate on joints for the purpose of removing diseased tissues, especi- ally the synovial membrane. 3. Schiiller has also treated cases by intra- articular injection of sterilised guaiacum-iodo- form-glycerine. These procedures have for their object the removal or destruction of the organisms which the author considers are the cause of the arthritis. External application of various medicinal substances is employed largely. Iodine painted on the joint or applied as an iodine plaster is useful. Tincture of capsicum applied on lint after washing the joint with hot soap and water may give decided relief. A liniment of chloro- form, belladonna, and aconite in equal parts has been recommended. Bannatyne advises the use of equal parts of guaiacol and olive oil, or guaiacol with tincture of iodine (1-6), or guaiacol with methyl salicylate. The guaiacol is absorbed and can be detected in the urine. Its smell is a decided practical objection to its external employment, but it undoubtedly re- lieves pain in some cases. Unhealthy conditions of the gums, especially such as are attended with purulent discharges, should be treated. Recent work makes it prob- able that chronic septic diseases of the mouth play an important part in auto-infection and the etiology of diseases which depend upon it. Affected parts should be cleansed thoroughly with 1-20 carbolic lotion, and an antiseptic mouth-wash used frequently; salicylic acid (1-600), or Condy's fluid well diluted, or Listerine, are satisfactory for this purpose. Chronic Eheumatism Clinical Features . . . .573 Types 574 Comparative Pathology— Clinical ...... 575 Pathological . . . . .576 Morbid Anatomy . . . . .576 Muscular Rheumatism . . . .577 Forms 577 Diagnosis . . . . .578 General Diagnosis .... 578 Etiology ...... 579 Treatment ...... 580 Clinical Features.—The clinical features of chronic rheumatism are for the most part vague and ill-defined. The leading manifestations are seen in relation to joint structures, especially the larger joints of the limbs and spine, but many other tissues may be the chief sites of incidence of the rheumatic virus. Among these other manifestations rheumatic affections of muscles occupy a prominent place, and as these are very frequent and apt to be overlooked, special attention is devoted to them (p. 577). The skin, subcutaneous tissue, and the special senses of ear and eye frequently exhibit symp- toms often regarded as of rheumatic origin. While there is a diversity of opinion on the relationship of these symptoms to rheumatism, the balance of evidence indicates an important