PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—AFFECTIONS OF OVUM AND DECIDUA 243 described in which the amnion was separated from the chorion by blood-clot, the hsematoma being subamniotic as well as subchorionic. The maternal blood occasionally breaks into and clots within the amniotic cavity itself. The structure of the mole depends upon the age of the ovum at the time of its death, and upon the quantity and position of the blood-clot which is formed in and around it. Thus if the ovum dies before the formation of the placenta, and when the whole chorion is covered with villi, the whole wall of the ovum is thickened by the formation of blood-clot between the villi. If the placenta is already formed it becomes curled round on itself, so that its uterine surface forms the external surface of the mole, the membranes being crumpled up within its con- cavity. Again, if the htemorrhage is sufficient to separate the decidua completely from the uterine wall, the structure of the mole differs from that found in cases where the decidua remains in contact with the muscular wall of the uterus. Morgani is the earliest writer who shows a clear understanding of the morbid anatomy of retained apoplectic ova. Writing before the year 1859, Scanzoni states that the thickness of the chorion in these cases is due to the effused blood, more or less organised, which is found between the villi. This, he continues, becomes transformed into connective tissue, which becomes vascular and adheres to the uterine wall. Breus has made microscopic examinations in five cases. Berry Hart and the author have also described the histological changes observed. After the death of the ovum and the stoppage of the chorionic circulation the small foetal vessels in the villi disappear, the larger ones being more slowly obliterated, and leaving for some time a few blood crystals and amorphous granules to mark their late position. The foetal connective tissue between the epithelial layers of the amnion and the chorion, as also that forming the cores of the villi, is compressed, but is not otherwise altered for a long time. The foetal epithelium lining the amniotic cavity also remains recognisable, but the outlines of its cells are lost, and the nuclei become clouded. The foetal epithelium of the chorion and the chorionic villi undergoes similar changes. When this epithelial covering of the villi degenerates after the stoppage of the foetal circulation, the maternal blood in the intervillous spaces does not long continue to move, but soon forms a firm blood-clot embedding the villi. This intervillous blood- clot consists so largely of fibrin that it seems probable that the degenerated epithelium of the villi acts as a foreign body, layer after layer of fibrin being deposited upon the villi from the maternal blood until the whole intervillous space is thrombosed. Eden has shown that this occurs in parts of the living placenta which lose their foetal blood-supply towards the end of normal pregnancy. As the liquor amnii is absorbed the sub- chorionic hsematoma bulges inward into the cavity of the ovum, throwing the amnion and chorion into the characteristic bosses or eleva- tions which are seen on cutting into the ovum, and laying open its amniotic surface. If re- current hfemorrhages into the decidua separate the ovum completely from the uterine wall, the outer surface of the mass comes to be formed by concentric layers of blood-clot, and the tissues of the ovum may remain much as described above until the whole mass is expelled, it may be months after the death of the ovum. In other cases the decidual haemorrhage, while sufficient to kill the ovum and form the subchorionic hsematoma, does not separate the ovum from the decidua by a thick layer of blood-clot, but leaves the mass of villi embedded in fibrin still in contact with the uterine wall. In such cases furtlier changes are caused by the continued life and growth of the decidua. The decidual cells continue to multiply, and, exercising a phagocytic action, they attack the fibrin, the chorionic epithelium, and ultimately the connective tissue cores of the villi, making an attempt to convert the mass into tissue of the nature of decidua. This action of the decidual cells in organising masses of retained placenta has been described by Hartmann and Toupet, and they have applied the name Decidii- oma benignum to a placental polypus thus con- verted into connective tissue. It is worthy of note that Cazeaux, Naegele, Osiander, and others believe that complete absorption of placental structures by the uterine mucosa has occasionally occurred. For the retention of dead ova in the uterus during long periods the absence of septic infection is a necessary con- dition. Two factors are concerned, as a rule, in the production of these molar pregnancies. On the one hand is decidual disease, which renders extravasation of blood more liable to occur; and on the other hand there is usually some general condition which favours pelvic conges- tion. Such are cardiac lesions, traumatism, prolonged exertion, and the exanthemata. For the retention of the ovum it is essential that the uterine cavity remain free from septic infection. Symptoms and Course.—The usual symptoms and signs of pregnancy appear and progress normally up to a certain point, they then pass away and leave the patient with amenorrhoea or with irregular vaginal discharges, sometimes resembling menstrual blood, but at other times consisting of mucus stained brown with blood pigments. The breasts cease to enlarge, and shrink to their original size. Pain, as a rule, is absent, though there may be down-bearing, backache, and general malaise. The uterus