EETINOSCOPY 536 tract so much, and at the same time the reflex is brighter. The error introduced is that the refraction at the disc may not be the same as at the macula, but with careful subjective testing this error may as a rule be eliminated. If, however, any difficulty be experienced a mydri- atic should be used. Retraction.—The act of drawing back or aside, e.g. the separation of the lips of a wound or of the vulvar aperture by a special instrument (a retractor); or, more specially, the contraction of the uterus which follows the birth of the child, and which is, unlike contrac- tions in labour, not followed by complete relaxa- tion. See PuERPERiuM, Physiology {Involution of the Uterus). Retraction-Ri ng^. See Labour, Physi- ology OP (Factor's of Labour, Primary Powers, Uterus). Retrahens.—Drawing back, as in the terminology of the muscular system; e.g. the retrahens atirem muscle (auricularis posterior), one of the extrinsic muscles of the ear, which, if well developed, draws the pinna backwards. Retro-.—In compound words retro- means backward, as in retroauricular (behind the ear), retrohuccal (belonging to the posterior part of the mouth), retrocedent (disappearing from super- ficial and reappearing in internal parts, e.g. some forms of gout), retrocession (the act of going back, e.g. the foetal head at the vulva in labour), retroplacental (behind the placenta), and retro- sternal (behind the sternum). Retrobulbar Neuritis.— inflamma- tion of the orbital part of the optic nerve ; retro-ocular neuritis. See Amblyopia (Toxic, Diagnosis); Retina and Optic Nerve [Inflam- mation of Optic Nerve). Retroflexion. See Uterus, Displace- ments OF THE (Retrodisplacements); Pregnancy, Affections of Generative Organs {Retroversion of Gravid Uterus). Retro-ocular Neuritis. See Retro* BULBAR Neuritis. Retroperitoneal. See Abdominal Ab- scess {Retroperitoneal); Abdominal Tumours, Diagnosis of {Retroperitoneal Glands); etc. Retropharyng^eal. See Pharynx, Diseases of {Retropharyngeal Abscess). Retropubic. See Pregnancy, Affec- tions of Generative Organs {Retroversion of Gravid Uterus, Diagnosis from Retropubic Abscess). Retropulsion.—A driving backward, e.g. retropulsion of the coccyx during the birth of the foetal head, or the tendency to run back- ward seen in the gait of paralysis agitans. Retrotarsal.—Behind the tarsus of the eye, e.g. the retrotarsal fold. Retrouterine.—Behind the uterus, e.g. a retrouterine tumour. Retroversion. See Uterus, Displace- ments of {Retrodispjlacements) ; Pregnancy, Affections of Generative Organs {Retroversion of the Gravid Uterus). RetziuS, Space of.—The cavumRetzii, a hollow on the pelvic aspect of the visceral pelvic fascia bounded laterally by the pubo- prostatic ligaments; in this space the bladder is not covered with peritoneum. RevaCCination. See Smallpox {Treat- ment, PreventioTb); Vaccination. Reverdin's Method.—A method of epithelium grafting ; also, a method of treating symblepharon. See Skin Grafting {Methods). Reversion. See Heredity {Reversion). Revulsives.—An almost obsolete term for agents believed to divert a disease from one part of the body to another, especially by blood-letting. RhabditiS. — A filaria; e.g. rhabditis Niellyi (the parasite of craw-craw), rhabditis intestinalis s. stercoralis {angidllula stercoralis). RhabdO-.—in compound words rhabdo- (Gr. pdfjSo'i, a rod or wand) means rod-like; e.g. rhabdonema strongyloides {see Parasites, Nematodes, Angiostomidae), rhabdomyoma (a form of myoma containing striped muscular fibres). Rhachi-.—in compound words rhachi- (Gr. pax'S) the backbone) means relating to the spine : it is often spelt rachi- {q.v.). RhachitiS. See Rickets. Rhag'adeS.—The plural of rhagas, a fissure or tear (Gr. paya?, a rent or chink). Rhamni Purshiani Cortex. See Cascara Sagrada. Rhatany. See Kramebi^ Radix. Rheinfelden. See Balneology {Switzer- land, JIuriated Waters). Rheonome, Rheostat, etc. See Electricity ; Physiology, Tissues {Muscle in Action). RheumarthritiS.—Rheumatic inflam- mation of a joint. See Rheumatism, Acute and Chronic. Rheumatic Fever. .See Rheumatism, Acute.