444 PURPURA The breath is generally offensive, and it may be exceedingly foetid. The submaxillary glands are usually enlarged. Slight continual oozing from the gums is a nearly constant symptom, and the mouth is unclean from the presence of decomposing clot. The gums are pale and not swollen. Epistaxis is common, and it may necessitate plugging of the nostrils. Retinal hfemorrhages are often observed. If sickness occurs, as is often the case, the vomit may contain a little altered blood, but haemorrhage from the gastro-intestinal and urinary tracts is often entirely absent, and it is never a prominent symptom. Slight albu- minuria may appear, probably attributable to the anaemia, and systolic murmurs are often developed at the base and apex of the heart from the same cause. Enlargement of the spleen has been detected by percussion. Joint- pains may be complained of without external evidence of inflammation. The bowels are apt to be loose. Pyrexia is always a striking feature. It is often present when the patient first comes under observation. Sometimes, however, the first crop of petechife is not attended by a rise of tempera- ture, and in such cases a diagnosis of purpura simplex may be made, and a favourable prognosis may be too hastily given. The temperature ranges through 2 or 3 degrees daily, the maxi- mum being generally at least 103°, sometimes 104° or higher. The patient sometimes falls into the typhoid state. Often, however, he does not present the usual febrile aspect, but he is extremely pale and blanched, while the tongue does not grow dry, and is often surpris- ingly clean. He is generally sleepy, but when roused the mind is clear. He is often singularly hopeful, and even when death is near may complain of nothing but faintness and weakness. The blood presents no change, beyond great diminution of red cells. Leucocytosis is slight or absent. The red cells are usually at least 50 per cent below the normal, and sometimes much below this point. A drop to 390,000 per c.mm. has been observed. It must be noted that the anaemia is often quite out of proportion to the loss of blood, and that it is sometimes extreme when a scanty crop of petechiae and a little oozing from the gums represent the total amount of haemorrhage. Tlie amount of haemoglobin falls equally with the number of red cells. The real duration of the illness can hardly be estimated, but death commonly occurs during the first, second, or third week after the patient comes under treatment. It is doubtful if recovery ever takes place. The immediate cause of death is generally cardiac failure. Morbid Anatomy.—After death petechiae are found to be as widely distributed inside the body as on the skin. In many cases all organs and tissues are thickly strewn with them. Sometimes one part is more affected than another, but the serous membranes and the heart seldom if ever escape. The whole surface of the stomach, and large tracts of the intestine, may be reddened with innumerable petechiae, which sometimes fuse into extensive haemor- rhagic patches, especially in the rectum. The mesenteric glands are generally pink, and slightly swollen. Haemorrhage may occur into the brain tissue, and extravasations are often abundant in the pia-arachnoid. CEdema, or broncho-pneumonia, and collapse may be present in the lungs. All viscera, as a rule, are exceed- ingly pale, though the kidneys after death from Henoch's purpura may present the usual appearance of an acute nephritis. The heart- muscle and liver are soft and pale, and iron- containing pigment may sometimes be demon- strated in the outer zone of the hepatic lobules. After death from febrile purpura the spleen is generally found to be enlarged. In one case it weighed twenty-three ounces. The marrow in the heads of the long bones has occasionally been noted as puriform in appearance, consist- ing almost entirely of fat, but it is uncertain whether this change is of common occurrence. Microscopical examination shows that the haemorrhage occurs mainly by rupture of vessels, and not by diapedesis, though the latter process may play some part. It has been mentioned that the site of the haemorrhage is generally the lower part of the cutis. In horizontal sections through petechial spots the remains of ruptured vessels may be seen among the extravasated corpuscles in the form of streaks of connective tissue and endothelial plates, which are bent to a common centre. Treatment. — In symptomatic purpura no special line of treatment can be laid down. If it occurs in association with specific fevers it usually indicates a high degree of toxaemia, and so far as possible this blood-state and its effect on the heart must be met. In the other cases it is sufficient to recognise the cause In simple purpura little is required beyond rest in bed and tonics, among which arsenic is to be preferred. Great care must be taken from the outset, in view of the fact that the early stage of the graver forms of the disease may be indistinguishable from a simple purpura. In arthritic purpura anti-rheumatic treatment may be adopted, though it is doubtful if the course of the disease is thereby shortened. Complete and prolonged rest in bed is essential. In Henoch's form opium will be found neces- sary. When danger arises from sheer loss of blood, as in Werlhof's disease, the indication for treatment is plain, but the result is dis- appointing. Calcium chloride, ergot or ergotin, sulphuric acid, acetate of lead, or turpentine may be tried, with but little result. In the febrile form little can be done beyond com- bating the cardiac weakness by means of stimu- M