PULSE, THE 427 above the first summit. This is equivalent to saying that occasionally the curves in the tracing become of the anacrotic or bisferiens type. The radial artery is always tightly con- tracted when such tracings are obtained, and Fig. 115.—Pulse ill tubercular meningitis (child set. 21 years). The radial artery is not so tightly contracted—temp. 10y2'. The pulse-curves are now of the histeriens type, but the same type of irregularity is shown. the appearance of the sphygmogram suggests that the calibre of the vessel is undergoing varia- tions, from vaso-motor influence, even while an observation is being made (see also Figs. 16 and 28). It cannot be cer- tainly affirmed that this is a feature peculiar to the pulse of tubercular meningitis, or that it can be demonstrated in every case of that disease. When such a tracing is obtained, however, it is noted that it differs in this respect from the usual type of youthful irregularity. Otherwise the two forms of ir- regularity would be precisely similar. ChaiKjes in the Character of the False during appearances are of instrumental production, but this is not the case. When the slow, irregular pulse of tubercular meningitis is quickened from any cause, it at the same time becomes regular, and in the final stage of the disease beconies enormously rapid. During this period the vagus never, even temporarily, regains its control over the heart, and the pulse is constantly fast (Fig. 118). During the early stages of the disease, when the pulse is slow, the sphygmogram is in- variably one of the high-pres- sure type, even though the wave is excessively small and feeble. In the later stages of the disease, however, when the pulse becomes rapid, the pressure may fall, and the tracing is sometimes dicrotic. FIO. 117.- Fig. 116.—Pulse in tubercular meningitis (child set. 2J years). To show the changes in pulse form in the course of a single tracing. the Course of Ihobercular Meningitis.—In some cases of tubercular meningitis, perhaps the re- markable variation in the character of the pulse- curve from day to day, or even from hour to hour, is the most striking thing noted. This is an- other suggestive point in the differ- ential diagnosis of the disease. The pulse may be fairly regular, and may alter while it is being felt into a halting, irregu- lar rhythm. Sphygmograms of the type shown in Figs. 116 and 117, where a series of large and small beats occur alternately throughout the tracing, are sufficiently remarkable to attract attention. One is tempted to believe that such Pulse in tubercular meningitis (child xt. Z\ years). To show the striking variations in the amplitude of the pulse-curves. With regard to the pulse in simple basic meningitis there appears to be nothing specially characteristic. It is commonly fast from the onset of the disease, which is generally sudden. Many of the children attacked are under two years of age, but even in older children the writer has never obtained tracings which presented any similarity to those of well- marked tubercular meningitis. It is often of fairly high pressure, and the form of the curve may not always alter under slight pyrexia (Fig. 120); but there is never the same remark- able contraction of the artery, and the pulse is at no time either so slow or so markedly irregular as in the tubercular variety. The form of respira- tory curve obtained in some cases of simple basic Fig. lis.—Very rapid pulse at the final stage of tubercular meningitis (child a;t. If., years). meningitis has already been referred to as a point to be considered in differential diagnosis. The Pulse in Pneumonia I. The Pulse in Croupous Pneumonia.— The pulse in croupous pneumonia in early life