PREGNANCY, PHYSIOLOGY OF 234 —DIAGNOSIS OF PREGNANCY is the most reliable sign we possess for the diag- nosis of this condition. It may be noticed in passing that the sound may be passed into the pregnant uterus without rupturing the mem- brane, so that this simple operation must not be relied on to differentiate a pregnancy from an ovarian tumour. Fibroid Tumours of the Uterus.—These, as a rule, are denser and grow more slowly than the pregnant uterus, and menorrhagia is generally a prominent symptom. In rare cases there may be found present mammary changes, but these are never so marked as those of pregnancy. A uterine bruit is heard in more than half the number of cases, but the foetal heart sounds are of course absent, as are also the vaginal changes found in pregnancy. These points will generally serve to differentiate the one condition from the other. It must be kept in mind, how- ever, that soft fibroids, and those undergoing cystic degeneration, may undergo a rapid in- crease in size, and that in soft fibroids the inter- mittent softening and hardening of the uterine wall so markedly felt in pregnancy may in rare cases also be noticed. In the absence of a very definite and reliable history it is very difhcult to distinguish between a pregnancy in which the foetus has died and been retained in utero, and a fibroid tumour. Hydatid degeneration of the chorion, pro- ducing an irregularly shaped uterus and giving rise to irregular haemorrhages, may closely simulate a soft fibroid tumour. The history, however, will be different in the two cases, and if this is not obtainable the lapse of a month will usually clear up the diagnosis. Where a fibroid or an ovarian tumour and pregnancy co-exist the difficulty in diagnosis may be very great, but if the possibility of this occurrence is kept in mind, it will help occasion- ally in the diagnosis of an abdominal swelling with an obscure history and apparently contra- dictory symptoms. Distended Bladder.—An over-distended blad- der is not likely in itself to be mistaken for the pregnant uterus, though where it is present along with a pregnancy it may lead to certain errors in diagnosis. A distended bladder, for instance, the result of an impacted retroflexed gravid uterus, may be mistaken for hydramnios, or may cause one to suppose that the gestation is much further advanced than it really is. Such a mistake could only arise when a vaginal examination had not been made. Obesity.—Accumulation of fat in the abdom- inal wall or in the omentum may not only render the diagnosis of pregnancy difficult, but may be mistaken for it. In women who are getting fat, menstruation frequently becomes scanty and sometimes ceases altogether. This obesity is very often developed at the menopause. The increase in size of the abdomen and the cessation of menstruation naturally suggest pregnancy, but when other corroborative signs are sought for in the mammse or vagina they will be found absent. Still, in stout women caution should be observed in expressing a negative opinion, for obesity obscures most of the abdominal signs of pregnancy, and also renders the vaginal examination very difficult. Spurious Pregnancy.—This is a rare con- dition, met with usually in neurotic patients, or in women who have married late in life and are desirous of becoming pregnant. In it all the symptoms and several of the signs of a true pregnancy are present. Menstruation may stop, the breasts secrete milk and enlarge, and there is morning sickness. Later there is swelling of the abdomen, quickening is felt, and the patient passes into a spurious labour. If suspicion is aroused, and a careful examination made, a mistake in diagnosis is not likely to be made. A resonant percussion note over the abdominal swelling alone excludes a true preg- nancy. Should the patient be stout an anses- thetic may be necessary. In narcosis the abdominal tumour generally subsides. Tumours of other Abdominal Viscera : Liver, Spleen, Kidneys.—These are not so likely to be mistaken for pregnancy as tumours of the ovary or uterus. Their growth is usually slow, and, with the exception of the abdominal swelling which they produce, they are unaccompanied by any of the other signs of pregnancy. The lower border of such tumouis is free, and the edge of the hand can be passed between it and the pubis, thus proving their abdominal and not pelvic origin. Ascites.—Ascites could hardly be mistaken for pregnancy. Fluctuation is very distinct, the character of the percussion note changes with the position of the patient, and the signs of pregnancy are absent. The Diagnosis of the Probable Date op Confinement.—The date of delivery can be predicted only approximately, firstly, because the d\iration of human gestation varies within certain limits, and, secondly, because even if this duration was constant, we are unable to determine exactly when fertilisation of the ovum takes place. We do know now that ovulation occurs irregularly, and not only in relation to menstruation as was formerly sup- posed, and from observations in the lower animals it is probable that an interval of from one to fourteen days may elapse between in- semination and fertilisation. So far as we can determine, the average duration of human preg- nancy is from 270 to 280 days. It is found also that the first week immediately following menstruation is the most favourable time for fertilisation, and this fact is made use of in calculating the date of the onset of labour. Naegle's method, because of its simplicity, is the one generally used. It consists in going back three mouths from the date of the-