OPTIC NERVE 512 EETINA AND fibres enclosed in it, there is a narrow interval occupied by lymph. By the lymphatics of the pial sheath, and by those which accompany the central vessels on their entrance into the nerve, there are communications between the lymph- spaces in the interior of the nerve and the intervaginal space. If we trace the nerve- sheaths forward to the eyeball, we find that the dural and arachnoidal sheaths here join and turn away from the nerve to be continued into the sclerotic, while the pial sheath is also united with the sclerotic and sends a few fibres into the choroid. The intravaginal space consequently ends abruptly in the sclerotic around the optic nerve entrance, and this has an important signi- ficance in pathological processes. The intraocular end of the nerve is seen with the ophthalmoscope. It is situated to the nasal side of the centre of the fundus, and is known as the optic disc or papilla. The optic disc is nearly circular, but usually somewhat oval verti- cally ; it is of a light orange-pink colour, with a characteristic superficial translucency. Its edge is traceable all round, but is most distinct out- wards, and here the disc itself is also rather paler than elsewhere from the nerve-fibres and capillaries being fewer. About the centre of the disc we can observe a depression surrounded by the converging nerve-fibres; this is known as the physiological cup or pit, and frequently its floor presents a dappled appearance, grey spots separated by white interlacing lines. The white tissue or lamina cribrosa is the thick anterior end of the pial framework, while the grey marks are the meshes occupied by nerve-fibres. Also, near the centre of the disc the retinal blood- vessels first come into view, the arteries narrower and lighter in colour than the veins. On the disc the nerve-fibres are naked axis-cylinders, but they acquire a meduUated sheath at the lamina cribrosa. In the rest of their course they are like the fibres of the white substance of brain and spinal cord; they are meduUated and invested by neuroglia, but destitute of primitive sheath. The functionally most important fibres are those coming from the ganglion cells around the fovea centralis (macular bundle). At the optic disc these fibres occupy the outer third, but after leaving the eyeball they soon gain a central position in the nerve-trunk, and continue as axial fibres of the nerve until it ends in the chiasma. Although arising from a small part of the retinal expansion, these macular fibres occupy a relatively large part of the nerve area (as seen on transverse section); this is due to the fact that each of these fibres represents the central connection of a single retinal element (cone), while each of the more peripheral optic nerve-fibres is connected with several retinal elements. The other fibres, coming from the upper, lower, outer, and inner parts of the retina, occupy a corresponding area (upper, lower, etc.) of the optic nerve trunk. The most central fibres at the disc are those which come from the most peripheral parts of the retina, while the fibres situated next the pial sheath of the nerve-trunk come from the retina immediately around the disc. It is important to recollect this, for it shows that an enlargement of the normal "blind spot" will be the first result of an inflammatory or atrophic process affecting the fibres at the periphery of the nerve-trunk. At the chiasma the optic nerve-fibres undergo a rearrangement, one important bundle being continued into the optic tract of the same side, while the remainder (constituting the larger bundle) cross over into the opposite tract. The non-crossing fibres correspond to those coming from the temporal half, and the crossing fibres to those coming from the nasal half of the same retina; the line dividing the retina into these two halves passes vertically through the macula lutea. Each tract, consequently, contains fibres from its own side (right or left) of both retinae. It follows that a loss of function in one optic nerve will mean a visual failure confined to the same eye, while lesion of one tract is followed by visual failure of both eyes, but only of those fibres coming from the homonymous side of both (right or left), and will therefore be expressed by the loss of the opposite half-field (left or right homonymous hemianopia). Lesion of the chiasma may implicate fibres from one eye only, or from both ; the most usual implication of the chiasma is central, affecting the crossing fibres from both nasal retinae, so that bi-temporal hemianopia is the result {see article on " Vision, Field of "). Each optic nerve-fibre is the central process (axon) of a retinal ganglion cell, and is nutrition- ally dependent upon this cell. The conducting value of the fibre may consequently be impaired in two distinct ways—by an affection (a) of the ganglion retinae, or {b) of the fibre itself in any part of its course. Diseases. —Disease affecting the optic nerves or tracts produces symptoms that can be ex- amined by different clinical methods, viz. :— (1) £i/ testing vision.—This test includes the examination of central and peripheral vision for form, colour, and light appreciation. {'2) By examining the action of the pupil to light. (3) By observation with the ophthalmoscope. In every case where optic nerve disease is looked for, all these methods must be employed. It will be sufficient here to mention that, in acute inflammatory conditions dependent upon intracranial disease, the ophthalmoscopic obser- vation is the most important, while the visual test is particularly valuable in the early stages of implication of the nerve behind the eyeball of local origin. General Pathology.—The optic nerve is