482 RECTUM, DISEASES OF THE present. A weak antiseptic solution is syringed in after every action of the bowels. The dress- ing consists of a small strip of wool for each wound, carrying the lotion or ointment pre- scribed. After the first week the finger is passed daily to make sure that no contraction results The patient may now get up daily to lie for a few hours on a sofa. He must not remain long in the erect position, for, though convalescent, his wounds are not yet healed. Rest must be insisted upon until the bowel is felt to be healed. Ligatures usually separate about the eighth day. The following conditions are often found in conjunction with hfemorrhoids :— (1) Fissure.—A small painful ulcer is often present in cases of piles, and is commonly over- looked because a careful examination is necessary to find it, hidden as it is by one of the hjemor- rhoidal tumours. Pain on deftecation or long- after the bowels have acted should always lead to suspicion of fissure. (2) Fistula is not so common a complica tion, but is sometimes pi'esent, and needs care for detection if it be of the blind internal kind. (3) Polypus and polypoid growths are some- times found with piles. They must be removed at the operation, or they may prevent healing of the wounds. (4) Impaction of fteces is sometimes found when the operation for piles is begun. The mass must be broken up and washed away before the surgeon proceeds further. (5) Lax Condition of Sphincters. — In old persons and in those who have had large venous piles for a long time this conditiom may be met. In such cases it is not advisable to perform the preliminary dilatation. (6) Malignant Disease.—In examining a case of hfemorrhoids, the surgeon should never omit to pass his finger well into the bowel before withdrawing it, and thus be sure that there is no stricture, ulceration, or malignant growth. Complications that may follow the operation for Hcemorrhoids— (1) Loss of Power in the Sphincters.—When large piles have been removed a sense of weak- ness and loss of power over the anus may be left. The piles acted as a plug, and at the same time caused, from their prolapsing, a weakening of the sphincters. Moreover, the change in the mucous membrane effected by operation brings about a dulness of appreciation when faeces approach the external orifice. Thus the patient may be unable to prevent discharge of wind or motion. If the anus is bathed night and morning with cold water, and an ounce of some stimulating lotion be daily injected into the rectum, the proper power soon returns. (2) Impaction of Faeces.—Although no faeces may be seen at the operation, large masses may be retained in the large intestines in any case of rectal disease. Delayed healing is often due to such descending masses. (3) Contraction of Anus.—This is especially likely if the patient is allowed to get up too soon. It iisually affects the mucous membrane only, and is cured by daily passage of the finger or bougies. In rare cases, when there has been long healing, or where extensive removal of the wall of the rectum was necessary, a tight hour- glass contraction is found. Constitutional as well as mechanical treatment is generally neces- sary, as such a condition occurs almost only in weak and unhealthy subjects. The patients are generally women, and there is often some uterine condition which needs care to permit of cure of the stricture in the bowel. (4) Abscess and fistula should be looked for when suppuration is more profuse than is con- sistent with the healing of the wound, or separa- tion of sloughs. (5) Bubo or pelvic suppuration may arise in delicate patients. (6) Haemorrhage may be primary, recurrent, or secondary. The first is very rare if the opera- tion is properly done. If no important vessel can be discovered bleeding, a little subsulphate of iron wool is to be introduced into the rectum, pressure applied, and an ice-bag placed over the exposed buttocks. Recurrent haemorrhage after many hours, or even a day, is more serious. If the treatment just described does not stop the bleeding, and especially if the patient feels distended, there is probably internal haemorrhage. Prompt action is necessary. Remove the bandage, pass a finger into the bowel, and tell the patient to bear down. Dark blood and clots pour out. Syringe the rectum with cold water. If the bleeding still continues, pass the finger again and find the spot where pressure controls the haemor- rhage. Ether is now to be administered, the nurse continuing the pressure upon the bleeding spot, if another medical man is not at hand. When the patient is properly anaesthetised the nui'se must continue the administration while the surgeon pulls down the bowel with a vul- sellum, and picks up the bleeding vessel. If it cannot be found clips must be left on the mucous membrane at the place whei-e pressure controls the loss. If this too is ineffectual, the bowel is to be plugged. A No. 12 gum-elastic catheter with the end cut off is passed up the bowel for six inches. A cone-shaped sponge, with strong silk ligature passed through its apex, is passed four inches up the bowel, the two ends of the ligature hanging out. Then the whole rectum below the sponge is to be carefully packed with antiseptic wool or gauze. Now pull the sponge downwards by the ligature, at the same time pushing the stuffing up. In this way the sponge is distended, and no bleeding can possibly take place. The plug is left in about one week, and the patient kept if neces-