PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 89 and excreted in the urine. The most important phosphate is the di-hydrogen sodium phosphate NaH2P0^, which is the chief factor in causing tlie acidity of the urine. About one-quarter of the phosphoric acid is linked to calcium and magnesium, and it is these earthy phosphates which precipitate when the urine becomes alkaline. When the urine becomes ammoniacal, ti'iple phosphate is formed (p. 87). (6) It is probable that a small quantity of the phosphorus is excreted in organic com- pounds, such as glycero-phosphates; but so far these have not been fully investigated. IV. Chlorine-Containing Bodies.—Sodium chloride is the chief salt of the urine. It is entirely derived from the salt taken in the food, and its amount varies with the amount ingested. From 10 to 15 grms. are usually excreted per diem in a person on a normal diet. In starvation to a certain extent, and very markedly in fever, the tissues of the body have a great power of holding on to the chlorine, and the chlorides may almost disappear from the urine. V. Bases of the Urine.—Sodium, potassium, calcium, and magnesium occur in the urine in amounts varying with the amounts taken in the food. Generally speaking, sodium is in ex- cess of the others, but on a flesh diet and in starvation it falls below the potassium. Calcium and magnesium are present in much smaller quantities. VI. Pigments.—A brown hygroscopic sub- stance, which gives no bands in the spectrum, may be extracted from urine. This has been termed urochrome. By reducing this, another pigment, urobilin, is produced, which gives definite bands, and which is frequently present in the urine. It is probably identical with the hydrobilirubin which has been prepared from the bile pigments, and it contains C, H, 0, and N. The pigment which gives the pink colour to urates has been called uroerythrin, and its chemical nature is unknown. Hsematoporphyrin (see p. 6) is normally present in small traces in the urine, but in certain pathological states it is increased in amount and gives a brown colour to the urine. VII. Nucleo-protein.—A mucin-like nucleo- protein derived from the urinary passages is always present in small amounts, and forms a cloud when the urine stands. VIII. Carbonic and Oxalic Acids.—1. Car- honic Acid.—Small amounts of this are present in urine, and after the administration of citrates, malates, or tartrates, the amount may be con- siderably increased, and the urine may then effervesce strongly when an acid is added. 2. Oxalic Acid 0 0 II II H—0—C—C—0—H is a substance in a stage of oxidation just above that of carbonic acid. It is frequently present in the urine linked with calcium, and the calcium salt tends to crystallise out in characteristic octohedra, looking under the microscope like small square envelopes. Under certain condi- tions these crystals assume other shapes. The oxalic acid of the urine is chiefly derived from oxalates in vegetable foods, but it has been detected in the urine of animals on a purely flesh diet. Secretion of Urine.—Structure of the Kidney. —The kidney (Fig. 174) is a compound tubular gland, consisting of innumerable tubules, each made up of— (1) A closed extremity or Malpighian body {31.B.), consisting of an expansion at the end of the tubule—Bowman's capsule—into which a tuft of capillary vessels—the glomerulus— projects. (2) Extending away from this is a proximal convoluted tubule (P.C.T.) lined by pyramidal Fig. 174.—Diagram of the structure of the kidney. M.P., Mal- pighian pyramid of the medulla; M.M., medullary ray extending into cortex; L., labyrinth of cortex; M.B., a Malpighian body consisting of the glomerular tuft and Bowman's capsule; P.C.T., a proximal convoluted tubule; H.L., Henle's loop on the tubule ; D.C.T., distal convoluted tubule; C.T., collectinu tubule; E.A., branch of renal artery giving off IL.A., interlobular artery, to supply the glomeruli and the convoluted tubules; IL.V., interlobular vein bringing blood back from the cortex. and granular epithelial cells. This dives into the medulla, becomes constricted and lined by a transparent flattened epithelium, and is known as the descending limb of the looped tubule of Henle. Turning suddenly upwards and be- coming lined by a cubical granular epithelium, it forms the ascending limb, and reaching the cortex expands into the distal convoluted tubule, which exactly resembles the proximal (D.C.T.). It opens into a collecting tubule (C.T.) lined by a low transparent epithelium, which conducts the urine to the pelvis of the kidney. The renal artery breaks up and gives off" a series of straight branches—the interlobular