PURPURA 439 Character of the Cutaneous Haemorrhage. —Petechise form the chief feature in all kinds of purpura. They are red or purple spots which assume a rusty colour as they disappear. They commonly appear in successive crops. They may be thickly distributed over the whole surface of the body, and in fatal cases the serous and mucous membranes are generally found to be similarly affected. In size they vary from a mere speck to a spot half an inch in diameter. The smallest size is often seen as the result of flea-bites. In shape they are rounded, irregular, or star-shaped. They do not fade on pressure. Except in scurvy they have no relation to the hair-follicles. After their appearance they do not increase in size, except by confluence with neighbouring petechise. As a rule they are not raised above the level of the skin, but some- times the centre is elevated into a papule. Occasionally some haemorrhages are in the form of streaks (vibices). In association with petechise, purplish bruises (ecchymoses) are often seen, sometimes measuring several inches in length. As these fade they show the brown and greenish yellow tints which are familiar in the traumatic bruise. Occasionally also large extravasations in the subcutaneous tissue are met with (haematomata). Etiology and Pathology. — From a con- sideration of the conditions under which a "symptomatic purpura" arises, we are justified in concluding that a purpuric eruption (exclud- ing that of haemophilia) may be produced : (1) by the presence in the blood either of bacteria themselves or of their poisonous products ; (2) by the presence in the blood of some poison of non-bacterial origin, either introduced from without or manufactured in the body ; (3) by some alteration in the formed or other con- stituents of the blood; (4) by vaso-motor influence. All instances of symptomatic pur- pura may be grouped in these four classes, which may be termed infectious, toxic, cachectic, and nervous respectively. Although a bacillus such as that of plague, a toxin siich as that produced by the bacillus diphtherise, a drug such as iodide of potassium, or a high degree of antemia may be spoken of as the cause of haemorrhage, we are very far from understanding the exact method by which rupture of the vessel wall is effected. Doubt- less some widespread deleterious influence is exerted by these agents upon the vessel. But in the production of petechiae something more than this is needed. There must be some sub- sidiary local factors which determine the site of the haemorrhage. Slight injury, sudden local alterations in blood pressure, capillary thrombosis, the unsupported state of a vessel, and the influence of gravity may conceivably contribute something towards the production of petechise. For example, in any purpuric state the prick of a needle will produce a hsemorrhagic spot. Gravity certainly plays a small part in certain cases of recurring arthritic pui'pura. Moreover, it has been shown by Unna that the point at which the cutaneous vessel ruptures is its point of least resistance. Rupture occurs in the lower part of the cutis, where the vessels lose their adventitia and media, and practically become capillaries with- out obtaining the support of the rigid cutis. Various changes have been described in the vessel wall, such as endarteritis, hyaline and amyloid degeneration. It is more than doubt- ful, however, whether such changes would be favourable to bleeding. At any rate, in view of the clinical history of the sudden appearance of petechiae in previously healthy individuals, such an explanation is now generally discarded. Histological evidence as to the local cause of petechise is scanty. Thrombosis of small veins has been observed, but considering the freedom of anastomosis of cutaneous vessels, this cannot be regarded as important. Capillary emboli have been found in purpura dependent upon generalised sarcoma. A more promising ex- planation lies in the bacterial emboli, which, with or without capillary thrombosis, have been found in many cases of purpuric eruption appearing in infectious and septic diseases. On the other hand, while careful search has failed to reveal such an appearance in the haemorrhagic spots of variola and diphtheria, the capillaries in the papillae of the skin in scarlet fever have been found plugged with cocci without the occurrence of any hsemorrhage. The evidence is not strong enough to bear a conclusion. The conditions, however, under which a symptomatic purpura occurs are known, and have been already enumerated. We may go so far as to suppose: (1) that in all of them, perhaps even in the unimportant nervous class, a circulating poison or an altered blood-state sets up in small vessels and capillaries a pre- paratory change in the direction of impaired vitality and loss of cell-cohesion, the exact nature of the change being unknown ; and (2) that in this state various local factors determine rupture and extravasation of blood. Our knowledge of the origin of " purpura as a symptom " is thus imperfect. When, however, we consider the nature of " purpura as a disease " we are reduced to pure hypothesis. The age- incidence of all forms of the disease is the only well-defined fact, the liability of children and young adults being very prominent. Both sexes are affected, and no great difference in their liability is noted. The family history throws no light on the etiology, and no clue is gained from the previous history or surround- ings of the patient. A review of a large number of cases leads to the provisional recognition of five forms of the disease, which are named simple, Werlhof's, arthritic, Henoch's, and febrile purpura respectively. It must be re-