PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 86 with the amboceptor to prevent its linking to the complement. Precipitins.—By the injection of the proteins of the blood of any particular animal into an animal of another species a serum is developed which precipitates the proteins of the blood of the first species and of no others. In these various cases the active body is produced by the throwing off of side-chains from protoplasm, and as these products are carried away in the blood the process is exactly analogous to the formation of internal secretions. Opsonins. — Many bacteria after treatment with the serum of the animal are taken up by the leucocytes, but if not treated with serum are not taken up. Apparently the serum contains something, which has been called an opsonin, which prepares the bacteria to be devoured. The action of opsonins is destroyed by temperatures between 55° and 65° C. The opsonic power of the serum is often increased by the injection of small quantities of dead bacteria (vaccines). Section VIII.—-Excretion of Matter FROM THE Body A. Excretion by the Lungs. B. Excretion by the Kidneys Urine.—The water and waste nitrogen of the body are chiefly eliminated in the urine, which is secreted by the kidneys. The tests for the various constittients of the urine must be studied practically. I. Physical Characters.—The characters of the urine depend largely on the relative pro- portion of water and of solids which are excreted in it. At one time it may be very concentrated, while at another time it may be very dilute. For this reason its specific gravity, which depends upon the percentage of solids in solu- tion, varies within wide limits, being often as high as 10.30 and frequently as low as 1005; but the average specific gravity is about 1020. It is possible from the specific gravity to form a rough idea of the amount of solids present, for, by multiplying the last two figures by 2'22 the amount of solids per 1000 parts is given approximately. Since the percentage of pigments in the urine varies like that of the other constituents, the colour of the urine shows wide divergence in the normal condition. A concentrated virine has a dark amber colour, while a dilute urine may be almost colourless. Under average conditions the urine has a straw yellow colour. The reaction of urine is normally acid in man, chiefly from the presence of acid sodium phos- phate, NaH^PO^, and the degree of acidity varies with the concentration. But the acidity of the urine may also be varied by different conditions. It is increased when there is an increased oxida- tion of proteins, for the sulphuric acid and phosphoric acid thus formed have to be neu- tralised by combining with the alkalies. It is decreased by taking alkalies, or by taking such vegetable salts as the citrate, malate, or tartrate of sodium or potassium, because these are oxi- dised in the body and excreted as the carbonates. The NaHjPO^ may then be changed to NajHPO^. Urine is normally transparent; but when it has stood for a few hours, a transparent cloud is seen floating in it. This consists of a mucin- like substance of the nature of a nucleo-protein. When urine is alkaline it is turbid from the separation of a white deposit of calcic and magnesic phosphates. In the alkaline urine of herbivora the white deposit is chiefly composed of calcium carbonate. A brick-red deposit of ui'ates tends to fall as the urine cools when it is concentrated and very acid. The smell of urine is characteristic, and it may be modified by the ingestion of many diff"erent substances. II. Composition.—Since the relative amounts of water and solids vary within such wide limits, the percentage composition of urine is of little moment. Under average conditions the water constitutes about 96 per cent, and the solids about 4 per cent. Of these solids, rather more than half are organic, rather less than half are inorganic. Since water and solids are derived from the water and solids taken by the individual, the amounts excreted depend upon the amounts taken, and must be con- sidered in connection with them. Thus, if a man takes little fluid, he will pass little water in the urine. If he takes little food, a small quantity of solids will be excreted by the kidneys. Since excretion and ingestion must be studied in relationship to one another, it is convenient to compare them during a definite period of time, and the natural division into days of twenty-four hours is generally adopted. Under ordinary conditions the amount of solid food taken per day does not vary very greatly, but the amount of fluids imbibed varies within much wider limits. For this reason, while the amount of water excreted in the urine per diem varies enormously, the amount of solids is more fixed. In a man on an average diet about 1500 c.c. of water and 60 to 70 grms. of solids are daily eliminated. I. Nitrogenous Substances. — A. Urea.— Urea is the most important constituent of the urine. Its chemistry and mode of formation have been discussed on page 75. Since it is as urea that, on an ordinary diet, nearly 90 per cent of the waste nitrogen is eliminated in the urine, the amount excreted depends upon the amount of proteins taken in the food. For this reason, during fasting, the excretion of urea may fall as low as 6 grms. per diem, while on a diet containing the ordinary amount of proteins, about 33 grms. of urea—15"4 grms.