PLEURODYNIA 154 diiferential diagnosis has to be made from inter- costal neuralgia and cardiac, pulmonary, or pleural disease. The former is characterised by the presence of localised painful points corre- sponding to the entrance of sensory nerves; the latter must be determined by looking for the ordinary physical signs of cai'diac or pulmonary disease. The local treatment consists in the application of a collodion dressing, or strip of plaster. Some cases are much benefited by counter-irritation. Only in specially severe cases will it be necessary to give an opiate for the relief of the pain. The disease is a con- stitutional one, and the general treatment will be described under " Rheumatism " (q.v.). PleuromelUS.—A teratological type in which an accessory limb springs from the side of the thorax. Pleuroperitoneal.—Affecting or be- longing to both the pleura and the peritoneum. See Tuberculosis {Morbid Anatojny). Pleuro- Pneumonia. — Inflammation affecting both the pleui'a and the lungs, especi- ally a contagious disease in horned cattle, with this character. See Food {Characteristics of Unsoundness) ; Milk [Pathological). PleuroprOSOpOSCh isiS. — Lateral fissure of the face ; a genal cleft due to im- perfect closure of the fissures between the fronto-nasal, superior maxillary, and mandibular processes. See Cheek, Fissure of. Pleurosomatoschisis. — A terato logical type in which there is gastroschisis (open condition of the trunk) in the side ; con- genital lateral aperture of the trunk. Pleurosomus. — A teratological type characterised by lateral fissure of the chest wall with or without prolapse of the lungs and heart through it. Pleurospasm.—Cramp in the side. PleurothotonOS.—The arching of the body to one side due to spasm of the muscles of that side. Pleurotomy.—Incision into the pleura. Pleurotyphoid.—Typhoid fever com- plicated by pleurisy. See Typhoid Fever [Symp- toms, Pleuro-fj/phoid). Plexiform. — Resembling a plexus, e.g. plexiform neuroma, a disease in which numerous tumours affect the nerves. Pleximeter.—A disc or plate of ivory (or other substance) placed on the body in mediate percussion ; it is struck by the plexor or hammer. Plexus.—In Anatomy a plexus is a struc- ture made up of interwoven nerves, vessels, or fibres, e.g. the brachial plexus, the coeliac plexus, the hypogastric plexus, etc. Plica. — A fold, e.g. the pliccB vaginoe (vaginal ruga;), or the ^jfea semilunaris (a fold of conjunctiva of the eye). Plica Polonica s. Saxonica.—A morbid state of the hair of the scalp, of the beard, or of some other part of the body, re- garded at one time as a special disease but now known to be due to want of cleanliness; the hair is filthy and is matted together into a stiff, tangled mass, in which parasites abound; it was common at one time in Poland, Posen, and Galicia. See Pediculosis (Fediciilosis Capitis). PI i m m e r'S Bodies!. — Intracellular bodies found in cancerous tissues, and once regarded as the causal agent of cancer. Plombi^res. *S'ee Balneology (France); Mineral Waters {Thermal). Plug'g'ing'. See Abortion {Treatment of Inevitable Abortion, Plugging the Cervix); La- bour, Post-Partum HyEMORRHAGE {Treatment, Curative, Plugging the Uter'us); Labour, Ob- stetric Operations {Induction of ^Premature Labour); Pregnancy, Haemorrhage {Unavoid- able Hemorrhage, Treatment, Champetier Bag); Puerpbrium, Pathology {Sudden Death, Plug- ging of Pulmonary Artery); Uterus, Inflamma- tions of {Chronic Metritis, Treatment). Plug's.—Vaginal plugs or tampons are applications consisting of cotton-wool, iodoform gauze, marine lint, etc., introduced into the vagina with the view of checking haemorrhage, supporting the uterus, or relieving inflammation; they often contain some medicinal substance such as glycerine, ichthyol, or a styptic. Plumbism.—Lead-poisoning. See Toxi- cology {Lead); Trades, Dangerous {Lead,- Poisoning); Water {Diseases produced by Im- pure Water). Plumbum. See Lead and Cross Refer- ences (vol. V. p. 377). Plummer'S Pill. — A pill containing calomel, sulphuretted antimony, guaiaciim resin, castor oil, and alcohol; pilula hydrargyri sub- chloridi composita of the B.P. Plural Pregnancy.—Twin pregnancy or a gestation in whicli two or more foetuses are present in the uterus; a pluripara is a woman who has given birth to twins or (more frequently) one who has had more than one pregnancy. See Labour in Multiple Pregnancy ; Pregnancy, Multiple. Plutomania.—A form of insanity or