288 PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF-HEMORRHAGE pressures rapidly equalise one another and the bleeding ceases. If, however, the uterine fibre has lost its tone to such an extent that it will permit the uterus to dilate before the blood pressure, then not only does the intra-uterine pressure never rise sufficiently to check the haemorrhage, but it is not even sufficient to force the blood which has escaped through the cervix. In this manner concealed hasmorrhage commences. The amount of htemorrhage which the uterus will permit to accumulate inside will depend upon the extent to which the muscle fibre is affected. The first sign that the latter is commencing to react against the distension it is undergoing, is the escape of blood externally, and accordingly the earlier that occurs the healthier may the condition of the uterus be judged to be. These are all important facts to grasp, as they explain the essential differences between external and in- ternal hsemorrhages so far as accompanying conditions go. They also indicate a means by which external hsemorrhage may be checked, and the necessity for uterine co-operation in carrying ovit such a treatment. Symptoms. — The symptoms of concealed hsemorrhage fall under two heads:— (1) Those due to the loss of blood, and common to all forms of htemorrhage. (2) Those due to the accumulation of blood in the uterus. (1) The first group does not require any special attention here. The symptoms are given in full in the section dealing with post- haemorrhagic collapse {v. " Labour, Post-partum HEMORRHAGE," Vol. V. p. 256). (2) The most prominent symptom in the second group consists in the gradual enlarge- ment of the uterus, which may dilate to such an extent as to fill the entire abdomen and cause pressure on the diaphragm. The uterus at first becomes tense, and then of an almost ■woody hardness, and is markedly tender to the touch. All possibility of palpating the foetus disappears. At the same time there is severe abdominal pain, akin to the pain caused by the tonic contraction of the uterus in cases of threatened rupture. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of concealed haemor- rhage due to detachment of the placenta can be made by means of the symptoms given above. Tenderness of, and increase of size in, the uterus, with ever-increasing pain, are almost pathognomonic of intra-uterine hsemorrhage— an important fact to bear in mind even when there is a sufficient amount of external haemor- rhage to account for any other symptoms. Treatment. — The treatment of concealed haemorrhage is so far by no means satisfactory. Mild cases which occur during labour are not very difficult to treat, but severe cases starting prior to the onset of labour are most serious. From what has gone before, it will be obvious that plugging of the vagina—a line of treat- ment which is so satisfactory in external haemor- rhage—is here of no avail. In those cases in which we are able to recognise the very com- mencement of the hfemorrhage, and while still the patient shows no marked symptoms of bleeding, some good may be gained by the application of a tight abdominal binder, and possibly by the administration of ergot; while the application of a firm vaginal compress—as presently described—may bring on labour be- fore the htemorrhage has reached a formidable amount. Once the patient begins to have strong uterine contractions a great deal of the risk of the case disappears. Immediate rupture of the membranes is then indicated, with the object of permitting the blood to escape and the uterus to contract down upon the foetus. The remain- ing treatment of the case is the same as that of external accidental haemorrhage when the patient is in labour. Unfortunately, many cases of concealed haemorrhage have a sudden onset before the patient is in labour, and do not admit of any temporising measures. In such cases the bleeding must be immediately checked, and in order to do this the seat of the haemor- rhage must be directly reached. Two lines of treatment present themselves—accouchement force, and supra-vaginal amputation of the uterus either by Porro's method or not, as may be preferred. These are both most serious measures, and convey per se a great element of danger into the case. The only excuse for their adoption is that the danger which they are directed against is so urgent that even the risk of Porro's operation, or accouchement force, with a collapsed patient, is to be preferred. By accouchment force is meant the dilatation of the cervix followed by version and the ex- traction of the foetus. It is performed as fol- lows :—Place the patient in the cross-bed posi- tion, with her hips well over the edge of the bed ; if possible an anaesthetic should be given. The first step is the dilatation of the cervix. This can be best accomplished, in cases in which the inner os is dilated, by means of several incisions through the walls of the cervical canal, radiating outwards from the os externum. This, however, can only be practised in primi- parae, in whom the os internum is found dilated previous to the onset of labour. In multiparaj, where the cervix is still long and the inner os closed, mechanical dilatation must be practised. This is usually performed by means of the fingers. First one finger is introduced gently through the cervix, and then, equally gently, another beside the first. Then a third finger, and so on, until finally the whole hand can be introduced. If there is not sufficient dilatation at the start to allow of the introduction of one finger, a few Hegar's dilators must be used, and by this means the cervical canal enlarged. As soon as the whole hand has been passed