POST-MORTEM METHODS 214 (700 to 1000 diameters or more). In some cases this may suffice for diagnosis, but in most cases it is insufficient, and the individual organisms are "separated" out by cultivation methods, and then examined in pure cultures, (1) microscopically; (2) by their behaviour in different culture media; and (3), if required, by inoculation into animals. In this manner, sometimes easily, often only after a tedious investigation, the identity of bacteria is made out. Only methods which require little time in performance, and a minimum of apparatus, shall be described in this article. A. Staining for bacteria, and the deductions to be drawn from the results obtained. Before staining can proceed thin sections of tissues or thin films of fluids must be obtained. (a) The method of obtaining thin sections has been described in the last section of this paper, and here it is only necessary to repeat that tissues are best prepared for bacteriological staining methods by fixation in alcohol or in corrosive sublimate. (6) The preparation of films has now to be described. The cover-glass should be thin, perferably No. 1, for work with oil-immersion objectives (see article on Microscope), and circular, the latter being an important point particularly for those comparatively unaccustomed to work with such fragile articles, as the square cover-glasses are more rapidly broken. Boil these in 10 per cent solution of hydrate or carbonate of soda; wash thoroughly in tap water ; drain and pass through strong mineral or acetic acid ; again rinse thoroughly in water, and keep in a covered glass jar in a mixture of equal parts of alcohol and water containing a little pure ammonia. Be careful not to touch cover-glasses at any stage with the fingers; when prepared in this way, they should be pei-fectly clean. Pick up a clean cover-glass with dissecting forceps and wipe dry with a clean, old piece of linen or silk, then catch it at the edge with a Cornet's spring forceps. 1. In the case of discharges or fluids gener- ally, make a small loop (one-sixteenth of an inch in diameter) at the end of a platinum needle, sterilise the needle by making it glow in a spirit or Bunsen flame ; when cool, take up a loopful of the fluid and spread thinly and evenly over the whole surface of the cover-glass, work- ing from the centre to the periphery. If the discharge be thick, place the drop on one cover-glass and invert another upon it. Allow the fluid to spread out in a thin layer, or, if necessary, exert gentle pressure and slide the cover-glasses apart. Place each with the film side uppermost on a piece of white absorbent paper and allow to dry. 2. When making a film from a culture (see later), firstly, place a loopful of water, prefer- ably distilled, on the cover-glass, pick out a minute quantity of the culture with a straight sterilised platinum needle, mix up with the water, and then spread out as before. Drying may be hastened by waving in the air, or by holding the film high over a flame. Fixation of Film.—Pass the cover-glass, film side up, through a spirit or Bunsen flame three times, at about the rate of the swing of the pendulum of an eight-day clock, pausing at the end of each swing. The film is now ready for the stain. The colouring agents used belong to the class of anilin dyes, and must be basic. They also act upon cells or tissues, if present, and in order to render the bacteria distinct, these less important objects have to be decolorised. When used in this manner the agent is called a "simple" stain, no other colouring agent being employed. Under certain circumstances which will be explained later (vide Gram's stain, and Ziehl- Neelsen's stain for tubercle), certain organisms retain a stain more firmly than others, so that they resist decolorisation, and stand out very clearly. The decolorised organisms or tissues present may thereafter be stained with another reagent, so as to render the contrast still more distinct. Such a method of staining is termed " differential," and is of great use in determining the identity of organisms. It will be evident from the foregoing that over-staining with subsequent decolorisation is the rule in bacteriology. It is advisable to obtain the following stock solutions of reagents, with which all the ordinary investigations may be carried out. A few other reagents which are not absolutely essential will be mentioned as occasion for their employment arises. Stains :— 1. Saturated alcoholic solution of methy- lene blue. 2. Saturated alcoholic solution of gentian violet. 3. Saturated alcoholic solution of basic fuchsin. Vehicles or Mordants :— 4. One per cent watery solution of caustic potash. This is further diluted in compound- ing the stain. 5. Anilin water. Place excess of pure anilin oil in a stoppered bottle; fill with dis- tilled water, shake frequently, and filter twice before using, wetting the filter-papers with water. The water takes up 4 per cent of the oil. 6. Five per cent watery solution of car- bolic acid.