534 PSEUDOCYESIS, OR SPURIOUS PREGNANCY they sviffer; the symptoms may last for years, and spurious labour recur at intervals. Treatment of the condition in most cases lies •entirely in convincing the patient that she is suifering from a delusion. The exercise of much tact may be called for. At the same time an •endeavour should be made to ascertain the •existence of an underlying cause, such as pathological pelvic conditions, and if discovered this should be attended to. Adiposity, •dyspepsia, and flatulent distension should receive appropriate treatment. Pseudodiphtheria. S'^e Diphtheria {Problems in Pathology, Attenuation of the Bacillus). Pseudoencephalus or Pseud- encephaiUS.—That form of anencephalus in which the basis cranii is covered with a soft, spongy, vascular mass. PseudOg'ensia.—A taste hallucination •or false perception. PseudOg^lobulin. See Physiology, Blood and Lymph [Plasm and Serum, 'Globulins). Pseudohermaphroditism. See Hermaphroditism. Pseudohydrophobia.—The imagin- ary hydrophobia of a nervous person who has been bitten by a dog not suffering from rabies. .See Rabies {Diagnosis). Pseudohy pert roph ic Paralysis. See Muscles, Diseases of {Idiopathic Muscular Atrophy and Hypertropihy, Pseudohypertrophic Type); Deformities {Congenital Dislocation of Mip, Diagnosis). Pseudohypertrophy. See Hyper- trophy {Pseudohypertrophy). PseudolieuS. — A form of intestinal obstruction. See Ovaries, Diseases op {Com- plicatimis following Ovariotomy). Pseudoleukaemia. — Hodgkin's dis- ease. See Lymphatic System {Lymphadenoma) ; Rickets {Associated Conditions, Pseudoleukcemia Infantum). PseudoiipOrrfa. —• Localised oedema, • especially in the supraclavicular regions in cases of myxa;dema. Pseudomembrane. — A false mem- brane, e.g. in diphtheria {q.v.). Pseudomening^itiS. See Hysteria !N Childhood {Sy^nptoms, Pseudomeningitis Hysterica). Pseudomnesia.—A false memory, the individual so aiTected " believing that he remembers facts that never existed" (Hack Tuke). Pseudomucin. A substance resem- bling mucin, found especially in some ovarian cysts {q.v.). Pseudoparalysis. See Rickets {Clinical Features, Muscles and Ligaments); Scurvy, Infantile {Diagnosis). PseudOpSia.—False vision. Pseudoptosis. See Ocular Muscles, Affections of {Paralysis, Etiology, Nuclear Ptosis). Pseudosclerosis. See Paralysis {Disseminated Sclerosis, Diagnosis). PseudOSmia.—False sense of smell. PseudOSteomalacia.—The malady of the bones due to late rickets and therefore simulating osteomalacia or malacosteon. See Labour, Prolonged {Pelvic Deformities, Pseudo- osteomalacic Pelvis). Pseudotabes. See Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis {Symptoms, Ataxia or Pseudotabes). Pseudotuberculosis.—A disease resembling tuberculosis met with in animals, and due to protozoa and to bacteria other than the tubercle bacillus; it is rare in man. PsllOSiS. See Sprue. Psittacosis.—A disease of birds (Gr. i/^tTTaKos, a parrot) which is believed to cause an atypical pneumonia in the human subject. Psoas Abscess. See Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Renal Fistula); Spine, Surgical Affections of {Spinal Caries, Complications, Psoas Abscess). Psoas Muscle. See Spine, Surgical Affections {Dijuries of Lumbar Plexus); Hip- Joint, Diseases of {Diagnosis of Hip-Joint Disease, Lesions of Psoas Muscle). Psoitis. — Inflammation of the psoas muscles. Psora. See Scabies. Psoriasis. Definition ...... 335 Clinical Features .... 335 Varieties ...... 335 Etiology ...... 336 Pathology ...... 337 Diagnosis ...... 337 Prognosis ...... 338 Treatment— General ...... 338 Local 340