PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—HAEMORRHAGE 295 size of the os, and extracted immediately or not, according to the condition of the patient. The average time which the bag takes to dilate the cervix is said to be five hours and ten minutes (Blacker). In the case of a central placenta prtevia, the bag must be introduced through an opening in the placenta made over the inner os. The advantages claimed for this course of procedure over Braxton Hicks' method are the ease with which it can be carried out, and the improved foetal prognosis. While fully recog- nising it as a perfectly scientific mode of treat- ment, and one which gives excellent results, the writer considers it to be inferior, for general use, to vei'sion. In careless hands it is more liable to cause sepsis, inasmuch as a possibly non-sterile foreign body is lying for some hours in the uterus; and its performance, which may not be required very frequently, necessitates the use of a special apparatus, and one, moreover, which is very liable to be destroyed by lying by. (2) Accouchement force. — The adoption of accouchement force is even more dangerous in the case of placenta prtevia than it is in the case of accidental hsemorrhage, owing to the condition of the cervix. It is most essential to remember that in these cases no attempt may be made to deliver the foetus through an in- completely dilated os. (3) Plugging of the Vagina.—Plugging of the vagina is an objectionable and unnecessary course of procedure in placenta praevia. There is always some risk of sepsis following the use of a plug, and this risk is very much increased in those cases in which the placenta is situated in the lower uterine segment, as the inoculation of the placental site by the extension of vaginal infection is so easy. Further, we have an excellent and safe mode of treating these cases which we do not possess in the case of accidental ha3morrhage, viz. version. Accordingly, the use of the plug should be limited to the small proportion of cases in which it is absolutely necessary, viz., to those cases in which the patient is bleeding, and in which the cervical canal is not sufficiently dilated to admit even two fingers. (4) Partial Detachment of the Placenta.— Detachment of the placenta from the lower uterine segment was the main feature of the treatment recommended by Barnes. The steps of his procedure, in his own words, are as follows:—• "(a) Rupture the membranes; this disposes the uterus to contract. "(5) Apply a firm bandage over the abdomen. " (c) A tampon may be introduced to gain time, but it is not necessary to do so. Watch ; observe with vigilance. " {d) Detach all the placenta adhering with- in the inferior zone, and always watch. If there is no haemorrhage, wait a little. The uterus may perhaps do what is necessary. If this fails, dilate the cervix with the hydrostatic dilator. Wait and watch. If the natural forces fail, employ the forceps, which gives the best chance to the child, or as a last resort perform version. " (e) Avoid as far as possible everything that pi'edisposes to septicsemia." Barnes' ti-eatment has now but very few sup- porters. At the time at which it was intro- duced it was a considerable advance over the methods in use, inasmuch as it prevented the rapid emptying of the uterus. It is, however, very much inferior to either Braxton Hicks' method or to the use of Champetier de Ribes' bag. It is a very tedious course of procedure for the patient, and one which aff'ords many opportunities of inoculating her with septic organisms. In placenta prsevia, more than in any other condition, the number of vaginal examinations must be brought down as near the irreducible minimum as possible, on account of the ease of infecting the placental site. But Barnes' method demands repeated examinations in order to carry out its multiple steps, and to ensure that the necessary " vigilance " is being used. Complications.—Although the main danger caused by placenta prajvia is death from haemorrhage coming from the placental site, there are still other grave risks sufficiently imminent to require careful consideration dixring the treatment of a case. Of these the following are the chief :— (1) Laceration of the Cervix.—As has been already mentioned, laceration of the cervix is very prone to occur in these cases, owing to the softened condition of the cervix resulting from its increased blood supply. Further, for the same reason that they occur, they are the more dangerous, as, if any of the large vessels going to the placenta are torn across, fatal traumatic haemorrhage will very probably result. It is this which makes accouchement force so danger- ous a proceeding in these cases, and which furnishes a direct contra-indication to the extraction of the child through an incompletely dilated cervix. If post-partum haemorrhage follows the birth of the child in these cases, the possibility of its being due to a laceration must always be borne in mind. (2) Septic Infection.—In consequence of the proximity of the placental site to the vagina, the absorption of septic organisms, or of ptomaines, may very easily take place. Such absorption may occur not only during labour, but also during the peurperium. Accordingly, as has already been said, vaginal examinations must be avoided as far as possible during labour, and any appearance of sapraemic change in the vaginal contents after confinement must be immediately treated.