224 PREGNANCY, PHYSIOLOGY OF—CHANGES IN THE MATERNAL ORGANS As to the causes of these deviations there is considerable difference of opinion, and many theories have been advanced to explain them. Some attribute them to the primary set of the uterus in the pelvis, some to the fact that women lie most commonly on their right side during sleep, some to the supposed comparative shortness of the right round ligament, some to irregular contractions of the uterine muscle, and others to distension of the rectum. As gestation progresses the obliquities are maintained, and in the later stages are accentu- ated. The uterus grows upwards and forwards, so that in the erect position its long axis is in line with the axis of the brim. In women who have had many children there Diagram to illustrate the changes in the cervix during pregnancy, occurs frequently a much more marked anterior projection of the uterus, and in some extreme cases the fundus is actually dependent. At the end of pregnancy three-fourths of the anterior surface of the uterus is in close relation with the abdominal wall, though sometimes omentum or small intestines may intervene. The lower fourth is in contact with the posterior wall of the bladder. The posterior surface of the uterus is in contact with the spinal column, and the coils of small intestine find room on either side. The fundus is in contact with the transverse colon and part of the greater curva- ture of the stomach, the anterior margin of the liver, and the xiphoid cartilage. The ascending colon is in relation with the right border of the uterus, and the descending colon with the left. Changes in Structure.—At one time it was supposed that the growth of the uterus was the result of mechanical pressure on the part of the enlarging ovum. If such were the case the uterine parietes would be much thinner at full term than in the non-gravid state. As a matter of fact, the thickness at full term is about the same as before pregnancy occurs, and the enor- mous increase in the size of the uterus is due to hypertrophy of the original muscular wall. There is, in addition, a distinct alteration in the muscular texture of the uterus, for one of the earliest signs of pregnancy is a softening and yielding of the wall, which strongly con- trasts with the dense unresistent pre-gravid character of the muscle. The thickness of the wall varies in different women and at different parts of the same uterus, for example, at the placental site the muscle is thicker, and in the neighbour- hood of the cervix it is thinner than in the virgin state. This hypertrophy is due to an enormous increase in size of the individual muscular fibres. They increase in length from seven to eleven times, and from two to five times in breadth. But besides the normally de- veloped fibres which grow so greatly, there are in the uterine wall embryonic muscle - cells which, when pregnancy occurs, take on active development, and increase to a size commensurate with that of the pre-existing fibres. At full term the uterus may be divided into three parts : above, the body; below, the cervix; and between these there is developed a portion of the muscular wall, which is much thinner and much less vascular than the body proper. This is known as the lower uterine segment. It is about three or four inches in vertical extent, and is separated from the body by a distinct ridge known as " Bandl's ring," or the " retraction ring." During pregnancy this division has as its lower limit the intei'nal os, but during labour, after the canalisation of the cervix has taken place, the lower uterine segment and the cervical canal are continuous. These parts of the uterus differ both in structure and in function. In the body the muscvilar fibres are arranged quite irregularly, in the lower segment chiefly vertic- ally, and in the cervix chiefly in a circular manner. The body of the uterus is the only contractile part. The lower uterine segment and the cervix together are expansile. During pregnancy the cervix uteri undergoes hypertrophic changes similar to those in other parts of the organ. At one time it was believed and taught that from the early months onwards there was a gradual shortening of the cervix, but it is now agreed that this diminution in length is virtual and not real. The apparent shortening is explained by the great softening of the cervical tissue which occurs, and to a