477 RECTUM, DISEASES OF THE There may be more than one internal opening. The internal opening must be felt with the finger, a tortuous course of the sinus often pre- venting the probe from reaching it. In horseshoe fistula the sinus generally runs dorsally from one side of the anus to the other. In children fistula is generally due to worms, and is cured by removing them ; a saline iron mixture should be prescribed in addition to the usual vermicide remedies. In adults palliative treatment consists in the application of strong acids, the outer opening of the fisula being first well dilated. Wool twisted upon a piece of stiff wire is passed down the sinus and withdrawn, and then, similarly, wool saturated with the chosen acid. A drainage tube, just large enough to fill the sinus, is inserted, and shortened daily. More than one application of the acid may be needed, and the external opening mnst be kept dilated. Spontaneous cure of fistula does very rarely occur. Forcible dilatation of the sphincters sometimes leads to cure, but is very uncertain. The patient need only rest for two days after this procedure. When a cutting operation is to be avoided, the elastic ligature may be used if there is only one sinus. For details of this treatment, which is rarely suitable, readers are referred to the author's larger work on Diseases of the Rectum. Operations on Fistula in Ano.—Thirty-six hours before operation an aperient is to be given, and an injection on the morning of the operation. The patient should always be anaes- thetised, as the extent of the operation cannot be foreseen, and placed upon the side on which the fistula exists, the buttocks being brought to the edge of the couch, and the knees drawn up. This is the best position for most rectal opera- tions, but with fistula on both sides the lithotomy position should be adopted. A director is passed into the external opening, and if possible through the sinus and internal opening. When, with the finger in the bowel, the point of the director is felt, it is turned towards the anus, and the tissues over it divided with a curved bistoury. If the point of the director cannot be brought out at the anus, owing to the depth of the fistula, it must be passed well through the sinus, and steadied by the left forefinger inserted into the rectum, while a straight knife is run along the groove of the director, cutting towards the bowel until the tissues are severed. This is not an easy operation. Dilation of the sphincters is of great assistance. If there is no internal opening, the point must be found where only mucous membrane intervenes between the point of the probe and the internal finger. If this is the highest point of the sinus, work the point through, and bring it out at the anus. If it be not the highest point of the sinus, gently push the probe farther, and then thrust it through the tissues into the bowel. Unless the sinus is laid open to its whole extent the patient will not be cured. After dividing a fistula from its external to its internal opening, search with the probe for any sinus running up beyond the internal apertui'e. Search with the finger tip for lateral sinuses from the main track, or for outward burrowing beyond the external opening. There may be a secondary sinus beneath the main one. This is found by scraping away the granulation tissue of the main sinus. When all sinuses have been slit up, the overlapping edges of the skin should be taken off. In cases with much induration draw a straight knife through the dense track of the fistula, and outwards beyond the external opening. When the operation is completed, some fine cotton-wool is packed with a probe into the bottom and every part of the wound. A pad of wool over the wounds, and a T-bandage firmly applied, complete the dress- ing. In this, as in all rectal operations, strict surgical cleanliness must be observed through- out. In cases where, owing to the depth of the sinus and the density of the tissues, the point of a probe director cannot be got out of the anus, the author's spring scissors and special director are recommended. In operating upon horseshoe fistulae only one division of the sphincter must be made. Press a director through the external aperture, and on to its point incise the skin in the middle line behind; push the director through and slit up. Then slit up the lateral sinuses on directors passed in at the external openings, and brought out at the dorsal incision. Most horseshoe fistulse are dorsal. Incontinence of faeces does not follow operations upon these cases if the internal sphincter is not divided, and if all loose mucous membrane or piles that may be present be thoroughly removed, so as to insure some contraction of the anus. Internal fistulae are often connected with haemorrhoids, and some- times follow suppuration caused by application to these of strong remedies. The internal opening may be detected only with difficulty, appearing as an ulcer which must be searched with the probe. In operating upon women, cut as little as possible. Incontinence of faeces results from cutting the muscles, particularly the internal sphincter, in more than one place. On one side the sphincters may be divided quite through with- out harm if the incision is at right angles to the fibres of the muscles. After operation for fistula the bowels should be confined for three days. The wool should be well moistened and removed a little day by day, beginning on the day after operation. After action of the bowels syringe the wound daily with warm antiseptic lotion, and lay a little cotton-wool lightly along the whole track. Fresh sinuses are generally indicated by sudden increase of discharge. Whenever a wound secretes more than its