448 PYREXIA Fever (Symptoms); Undulant Fever {Symp- toms, Pyrexia). Pyridine. See Alkaloids {Pyridin), Pyriform or Pyriformis. — Pear- shaped ; e.g. the pyriform lobe (lobus pyriformis) of the brain, the pyriformis muscle and fascia, etc. See Physiology, Neuro-muscular Mechan- ism {Cerehru7n). Pyrmont. See Balneology {Germany, Chalybeate Waters); Mineral Waters {Chaly- beate). Pyro-.—In compound words joyro- (Gr. Trvp, fire) is a prefix signifying relating to heat or produced by the agency of heat; e.g. pyroacetic ether (acetone formed by the dry distillation of acetates), pyrogenesis (the generation of fever), pyroligneoihs acid (pyroacetic acid obtained by the dry distillation of wood), jyyroarsenates, etc. PyrOCa,tecllin. — Ortho-dihydroxyben- zene (CgHgO.,), a substance obtained by the dry distillation of catechu; it has been used as an antipyretic (dose, 1 to 2 grains), and it is some- times found in the urine. See Urine, Patho- logical Changes in {Aromatic Substances, Ether- eal Sulphates). Pyrodin.—A coal-tar derivative consisting chiefly of hydracetin or acetylphenylhydrazine (CgH5.C2H30.N2H.2); it has been used as an antipyretic (dose, ^ to 3 grains) and in psoriasis. PyrOg^aliiC Acid.—Acidum pyrogalli- cum or trioxybenzol or pyrogallol (CgHgOj) is a non-official preparation, obtained from gallic or tannic acid by heat; it is used, in the form of an ointment {Jarisch's), in cases of chronic psori- asis and in ringworm. See Jarisch's Ointment ; Psoriasis ; etc. Pyrog'a.llOl. See Pyrogallic Acid. Pyroma.nia..—Incendiarism due to in- sanity. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Impidsiveness). PyropllObia..—An insane dread of fire. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Impulsive- ness). PyrOSa,!.—Salicylacetate of antipyrin, an antipyretic drug, recommended in fever and neuralgia (dose, 8 grains). Pyrosis.—Waterbrash or heartburn. See Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases op {General Symptomatology, Eructations). PyrOSOma..—One of the htEmosporidia ; the pyrosoma bigeminum is the cause of Texas fever. See Malaria {History); Parasites {Pro- tozoa, Hcemosporidia). PyrotOXin. See Temperature {Causes of Fever). Pyroxylin. — Di nitrocellulose (CgHg(N02)205), is cotton-wool which has been soaked in a mixture of sulphuric and nitric acids and dried. See Collodion ; Gossypium ; etc. PyrrllOi. See Physiology, Protoplasm {Products of Decomposition, Pyrrhol Derivatives). Pyuria. Gross Physical Characters . . . 448 Examination of the Urine . . . 449 Diagnosis of Origin .... 449 See also Children, Clinical Examination op {Urine, Pyuria); Kidney, Surgical Affections OP {Stone in the Kidney, Symptoms); Liver, Tropical Abscess of {Prognosis from Pus in the Urine). The appearance of pus in the urine, like the presence of blood, is a symptom of many diff"erent lesions in the urinary tract. It may emanate from any portion of the apparatus, or may gain an entrance to it from neighbouring parts. Pus appears in amounts to be appreci- ated by the microscope only, or it may escape in very large quantities, so as to form a con- siderable bulk of the evacuation. It is necessary to remark here upon the methods used in the detection of pus, and the means employed to distinguish it from other urinary deposits. The gross physical characters of pus vary considerably. It may be present in an acid urine in small quantity, when it deposits as a slight cloud at the bottom of the test glass; it may be mixed with mucus, and elude detection except by the microscope; when abundant and in an alkaline urine it may form a copious yellowish white creamy sediment, or it may be curdy and contain flakes. The appearance of pus is only a sign. It is not the physical pro- perties of the pus that is of importance, but rather the bacteriological conditions which are associated with its presence, and unfortunately the former afford no clue to the latter. Besides detecting the presence of pus in the urine the clinical observer must determine the micro- organisms giving rise to the formation of the discharge. By the microscope alone the presence of bacteria may be demonstrated, but in order to reveal their identity cultivations are necessary, and perhaps these methods may require to be supplemented by inoculation experiments upon animals. The detection of pus in the urine is seldom of itself sufficient to guide the surgeon to a conclusive diagnosis, although by it alone information may be obtained to assist him con- siderably in his inquiry. But when the special characters of the pus are studied in conjunction with the cii'cumstance attending its escape, and in view of the general features of the case, little difficulty will be experienced in discovering the nature and position of the morbid lesion.