191 POMPHOLYX cutaneous disease characterised by the eruption of vesicles, fever being absent (Gr. ■n-o/A<^oXv|, a bubble). Pomum Ad ami. —Adam's apple, the fanciful name given to the projecting angle formed by the meeting of the two alee of the thyroid cartilage of the larynx in the neck. Ponfick's Corpuscles or Sha- dows.—Colourless blood corpuscles or "phan- toms " produced by morbid changes in the erythrocytes; Hayem's achromacytes. Ponog'raph.—An instrument for estimat- ing and registering sensitiveness to pain (Gr. TTwos, pain). PonoS (ttovos, suffering, pain) is a peculiar endemic disease, affecting young children only, occurring in the Greek islands of Hydra and Spezia off the coast of Argolis. The disease is characterised by marasmus, enlargement of the spleen (usually), and a characteristic odour of the urine. The mortality is very great, either from the marasmus, haemorrhage, or general collapse. Roser first directed attention to this disease in 1835, and Pallas called attention to the hsemor- rhagic phenomena and their resemblance to those of scurvy in 1842, but it was not until 1871 that the disease was generally recognised by Grecian physicians. It is probably not so frequently met with now as it once was. Its origin is unknown. Jeannopoulos thought it was due to malarial infection, but this is not so. Climate and season have no influence upon its produc- tion, nor has the constitution of the soil. It is met with in rich and poor alike, and food and water seem to have no effect in its production. But it seems to be limited to certain families, and is popularly supposed to be due to heredi- tary conditions, or at any rate to congenital predisposition, for the parents of children suffer- ing from this disease are usually found to have suffered from some serious disease, especially tuberculosis. Karamitsas held that the disease was a kind of splenic leukaemia, but this view is not supported by either the symptoms during life or the post-mortem appearances. Hirsch describes it as a constitutional affection deeply rooted in errors of nutrition. Scheube considers that the disease much resembles the liver cirrhosis met with in India. In all probability some parasite will eventually be found to be its cause. The duration of the disease varies from two or three months to one or two years. It is rarely seen in children over four years of age, and Stephanos considers it rather more common in boys than in girls. Of the pathology of the disease we are quite ignorant. The symptoms of ponos vary. The child suffers from fever of an intermittent or irregular type, fluctuations from first to last; if it assumes the character of hectic fever, death nearly always results ; the child becomes feeble, pale, emaciated, disinclined to play, but the appetite is usually good; it may indeed become ravenous. Pari passu the spleen enlarges and is painful as a rule, and it is this pain which gives the name to the disease, but in some cases it is entirely absent, although the spleen is greatly enlarged. Constipation is the rule at first, followed later on by diarrhoea, some- times severe. From the first and throughout the disease the urine has a peculiar character- istic penetrating odour, and bronchial catarrh usually obtains throughout the whole course of the disease. After the onset of diarrhoja, oedema occurs, followed by ascites and sweating; and then haemorrhage from the nose, bowels, and especially from the gums, occurs, together with ecchymoses of the skin. Pneumonia, menin- gitis, and peritonitis are apt to complicate matters, and lead to a speedily fatal termina- tion of the disease. Treatment. — This is unsatisfactory. If the child is attacked when very young a good wet- nurse should be procured. Good food and tonics, such as iodide of iron, quinine, iron, are indicated; change of air should be advised, and, on the bare chance that the disease may be possibly combined with a scorbutic element, plenty of ripe fruit should be given. Dr. George I. Williamson, of Larnaca, Cyprus, writing of ponos, says: " I have for some con- siderable time been on the outlook here for cases that might be so classified, but have never met with any. Many cases of malarial fever in infants seem to closely resemble the disease as described, say, in Hanson's Trojncal Diseases. From inquiries made, I find that ponos has never been even suspected to exist in Cyprus. Dr. Trepis, of Larnaca, a native of Hydra, writes me that the older medical men of that island considered ponos to be tubercle of the mesenteric glands and peritoneum, and that the inhabitants thought it contagious and infectious, as many children of the same family were frequently attacked; he adds that he does not know how the disease is now considered by the doctors of Greece, but his own idea is that it is not a disease per se." I have lately come across an article on ponos written by Dr. Jeannopoulos, who practised in Spetsee for a considerable number of years : his article appeared in a Greek medical journal in 1879, and so is of earlier date than the de- scriptions by Karahistsa (1880) and Stephanos (1881). Jeannopoulos, whose article I have lately translated from the original Greek, con- siders the most suitable name to be septic marsh fever (eA.oyevr/s TT-uperos <T7^7re8ovj?Sijs), the title ponos (which he considers given by reason of the gangrene frequently noted) appearing unsuitable, as the terms ttovos and -rrovepa are used throughout Greece for any sore or wound. His idea as to etiology is that a marsh miasm