PULSE, THE 387 become greatly diminished in frequency. In Bright's disease the increased arterial pressure, which is excited by toxic influence, generally retards the heart's action; and in jaundice marked slowing of the pulse may occur. In children suffering from simple catarrhal jaundice, however, the pulse-rate does not often seem to be affected in this way. During pregnancy there may sometimes be a slowing of the pulse in the recumbent posture, but the acceleration caused by assuming the erect position is greater than it is under normal conditions. There is a toxfemia in pregnancy, and the rate of the pulse, in the sense that it reflects, more or less, the state of the blood pressure, is of some value as a symptom. The writer has made some observations on this matter, and believes that it is unusual to find either marked slowing of the pulse, or even much increase in arterial blood pressure, during the course of normal pregnancy. One might go the length of saying that the appearance of a strikingly sloiv pulse towards the end of gestation, if it persists for any length of time, forebodes danger. Examination of the urine may show that it is both scanty and albuminous, but the abnormal slowness of the pulse may precede the changes in the urine. For several weeks before the onset of eclampsia this pulse feature may be the only noteworthy symptom. After the completion of the third stage of labour there is generally a marked fall in pulse- rate. The pulse may then become slower than that which is normal to the individual. The pulse in children and also in young adults during convalescence from acute disease generally becomes very slow, and the individual beats are of unequal duration. The peculiar halting character of this slow pulse is perhaps specially well developed after the subsidence of the fever in cases of acute nephritis. It is also strikingly noticeable some days after the crisis of acute pneumonia, and may be regarded as a characteristic post-febrile feature of the pulse in children. In children who are apparently convalescent from diphtheria the pulse may sometimes become excessively slow and feeble, and heart failure from paralysis of the organ may then be imminent. Weber states that the pulse may fall to 28 beats per minute or even lower in these cases. In sclerema of the new-born infant the pulse may fall as low as 60 per minute. Significance of the Pulse-rate xuhen in Contra- diction to the Temperature or Respiration.—It is always well to make a comparison of the pulse-frequency with the temperature chart, as this will sometimes lead to important con- clusions. The significance of an elevated temperature without a corresponding increase in pulse-rate is of varied importance. In enteric fever the pulse is commonly between 80 and 100, when the temperature is considei-- ably raised. This is to be regarded as a favourable sign. It is probable that a special toxic substance circulating in the blood is responsible for the relative slowness of the heart, and the combination is sometimes sug- gestive from a diagnostic point of view. In the early stages of influenza the same thing may be observed, and is of little moment, but occurring in the later stages it is a symptom of bad omen. In rheumatic fever it sometimes happens that a rapidl}' increasing temperature is not accompanied by a corresponding quicken- ing of the pulse, and there may be delirium. Such a condition of matters would lead one to give a prognosis of the utmost gravity. Mention may here be made of a special circulatory feature in yellow fever, where there is a slowing of the pulse with a steady or even rising tempera- ture. This peculiarity is believed to be of some value in the diagnosis of the disease, but seems to have no special prognostic import. In cases of cerebral compression from any cause, e.g. tubercular meningitis, the pulse is often unusually slow, and also irregular in rhythm. In cases of intracranial tumour and tubercular meningitis the mere slowness has little diagnostic importance—the chief signifi- cance lies in the fact that this feature coexists with marked elevation of the temperature. The contracted condition of the radial artery is a point of great importance in these cases. While discussing the value of pulse symptoms, brief reference may be made to some of the conditions in which the pulse-rate is greatly accelerated without a corresponding rise of temperature. Thus, at the commencement of scarlet fever a pulse of 140 to 150 may be found when the other symptoms are insignificant. This is always suggestive, for the toxin of the disease, in striking contrast to that of enteric fever, leads to a great acceleration of the heart-beat. The extraordinary acceleration of the pulse towards the close of tubercular meningitis is also note- worthy. In acute pneiimonia an extremely rapid pulse at the onset, especially if it be notably soft, is almost always a fatal sign, even though the extent of lung involved is not large. It may indicate that the cardiac muscle has been completely disabled by the initial virulence of the toxin. When the pulse persistently increases in rate and becomes softer towards the end of the disease, the prognosis is invari- ably bad. In pulmonary phthisis, without marked pyrexia, a persistently rapid pulse is of serious import. In acute rheumatism a pulse of 120, without cardiac complications, signifies danger, whereas if pericarditis be present the pulse-rate may reach 150 per minute without serious results. Every careful physician, if only for his own peace of mind, keeps an anxious watch upon the frequency of the pulse during the puer-