RECTUM, DISEASES OF THE 479 most perhaps who are prone to rich living, excessive smoking, sedentary occupations, or violent prolonged exercise. Straining at stool, the use of cheap printed paper as a detergent, constipation, and pregnancy are some of the factors very commonly present. Either variety of external pile—the simple skin hypertrophy and the varicose clot-containing vein—is liable to acute attacks of inflammation. Extra eating and drinking are often the exciting cause of these. A sensation of fulness and pulsation in the anus, followed by itching of a most annoying nature, is the first symptom. The anus is a little swollen and tender, and there may be a stain of blood when the bowels act. All this may pass off with simple treatment, but if neglected will precede a more severe attack. One common mistake, to suppose the piles internal, and attempt their reduction, must be carefully guarded against. The necessary treatment consists in spare diet, rest, reduction of smoking, an aperient pill, and the local application of a sedative and astringent ointment or lotion. Common and efficient prescriptions are—Bismuth subnitr. 7)ij., Hyd. subchlor. Cocaine, gr. iv., vaseline ad. §j.; or Liq. plumbi. subacet. gj., Liq. opii. sedativ. gss. A tumbler of Vichy water or Carlsbad salts, taken on rising, is often a useful adjunct. If, through delay in treatment, more acute inflammation sets in, the piles become much increased in size, oedematous, or shiny, and very painful if touched. By irritation they cause spasm of the sphincter and levator-ani muscles, giving rise to acute pain just as the patient is falling off to sleep. He is generally feverish and con- stipated. Warm applications are in this state generally better than cold, but sometimes ice gives much relief. Treatment as recommended above will probably cure the attack, but if desired, operation may be at once undertaken. It is to be recommended— (1) For the saving of time ; (2) To prevent recurrence ; (3) If the pain is great, and unrelieved by palliatives. In the case of the hypertrophied skin tumours, operation consists in removing them with scissors, and may be done under gas. Care must be taken not to remove enough skin to induce subsequent contraction. The venous piles are to be pinched up between finger and thumb, and the basis transfixed with a curved bistoury, which is made to cut out Pressure extrudes the clot, and fine cotton-wool is then placed at the bottom of the sac. The incision is made in the direction of the radiating folds of the anus. If unoperated on these tumours may form cutaneous flaps, the blood in them becoming absorbed. Internal Hemorrhoids. —All causes of external piles tend to the production, too, of internal, but these may also represent a family idiosyn- crasy. Pregnancy, which often causes external piles that pass away after labour, has a different relationship to internal hsemorrhoids which ap- pear after parturition, when the parts are re- laxed and involution is taking place. Internal piles have been attributed to anatomical peculi- arities of the superior hsemorrhoidal veins, but their diverse structure is against this view. They may be — (1) Capillary; (2) Arterial; or (3) Venous. The first are small, florid, raspberry-like looking vascular areas on the mucous membrane, with a granular surface that bleeds on the slightest touch. They consist of hypertrophied capillary vessels, and spongy connective tissue, and closely resemble arterial naevi. After a long time, or after strong applications, they lose their granular appearance, and may remain dormant for longer or shorter periods, when they grow again. Arterial haemorrhoids are sessile or slightly pedunculated tumours, with glistening or slightly granular surface, and having an artery, often as large as the radial, entering the upper part. They consist of numerous freely anastomosing vessels, tortuous, and sometimes dilated into pouches, and a stroma of connective tissue. In the third variety of internal piles veins predominate. The tumours are often as large as a hen's egg, of bluish or livid colour, with a smooth or pseudo-cutaneous surface. Ordinary piles of long standing, causing discharge rather than bleeding, have been spoken of as " white piles." Partial prolapse of the mucous and submucous membrane of the rectum much re- sembles, but is to be distinguished from piles. There is no definite tumour, and no hypertrophy of vessels. Capillary piles can be diagnosed only by symptoms and ocular inspection; they cannot be felt. Pains in the back, in the spermatic cord and testicles, and small daily losses of blood are commonly met. It is this form of the disease that may be benefited by application of carbolic or fuming nitric acid. The treatment is uncertain, even with capillary piles, and never to be used with the arterial and venous forms. Powerful astringents, as liq. hamamelis, twice dailj% or suppositories of sulphate of iron, are similarly sometimes effective with capillary piles. Arterial and venous piles have many symptoms in common, and the suffering they cause depends more upon the condition of the tumour, as regards inflammation or ulceration, than upon its exact histological nature. In the early stages of the affection the piles come down at stool and bleed, returning within the sphincter after the bowels have acted or when the patient rises, or at least upon his lying down and vohmtarily retracting. Later, pressure is needed. On their return they come outside the