183 PNEUMONIA—CLINICAL SECTION of expectoration, or presence of prune-juice ex- pectoration, marked cerebral symptoms, gastro- enteric disturbance, with diarrhoea and tym- panites, (in women) pregnancy. Excessive leucocytosis indicates suppuration. Moderate leucocytosis is regarded as favourable, and so are local eruptions of herpes. Treatment In attempting to deal with this vast subject we propose to limit the scope of our inquiries by omitting the merely historical part of the question, and by boldly stating at the outset that the genei'al principles of treatment of the infective fevers apply in their entirety to pneu- monia fever also. This disease, in a word, like them, is an essential or constitutional malady, self-limited in duration. No doubt its normal course is often interfered with and interrupted by accidental complications or sequelje, which may themselves demand vigorous treatment. But to "cure pneumonia" is still, malgre the brothers Klemperer and their serum treatment, a feat as impossible of achievement as to cure typhus fever. " We know of no cure for fever ; no man has ever cured it," wrote William Stokes, of Dublin, many years ago. " It is, however, curable spontaneously. If you leave it to its own course it is capable of curing itself. It will spontaneously subside. . . . We, so to speak, cure the patient by preventing him from dying. . . . Herein lies the secret of the treatment of fever. We watch the progress of the disease throughout its varying phases; we meet by judicious treatment, as they arise, the symptoms of secondary and local malady; we sustain the system as far as practicable ; we preserve the sufferer at the least expense to the constitution ; and we wait patiently until the hour shall strike when in accordance with the mysterious law of periodicity the fever shall have departed and convalescence shall have begun." The " mysterious law of periodicity " is not now so mysterious as it was in the days of Stokes. The bacterial origin of the malady is everywhere admitted. The symptoms, local and constitutional, are due to a toxfemia. The toxin is resisted by the body-forces, as well as by an antitoxin which the toxaemia calls into being. Then, in the appropriate words of Dr. Andrew H. Smith, "the crisis is deferred until the infecting are balanced by the disinfecting forces, the latter including the various emunc- tories by which the poison is discharged from the body." Prophylaxis.—The prevention of pneumonia is a difficult matter. Perfect sanitation of the dwelling-house, civic cleanliness in the fullest sense, the maintenance of a high standard of personal health, and thorough disinfection or destruction of the sputum of pneumonic cases, which is dangerous only in a second degree to that of pulmonary consumption—such are the somewhat Utopian measures by adopting which we may hope to control pneumonia. The subjects of the malady should be isolated and treated in epidemic wards like any other fever patients. The researches of Netter (1888), Foa, and G. and F. Klemperer (1891) suggest the possibility of producing a temporary im- munity against pneumonia even in man, by injections of an antipneumococcic servnn pre- pared fi-om an attenuated culture of the Diplococcus pneu7nonice. The dog certainly can be rendered immune, and can also be cured of pneumonia by injections of antipneumococcic serum. Man, however, is relatively only slightly susceptible to the pneumonic diplococcus, and therefore we infer that he is equally but slightly susceptible to the antipneumococcic serum. Management. — A patient suffering from pneumonia should take to bed at the earliest moment in a large, airy, warm, well-lighted room in a well-drained " fresh" house. Pure air and warmth and daylight are magical remedies in this as in other acute diseases. If the house in which the patient resides is badly drained he should at once be removed from its tainted air. Nothing is more striking than the marked improvement which often follows the removal of a pneumonia patient from insanitary surroimdings to an airy, well-warmed, wholesome ward in a well-appointed general or private hospital. Next to the place in which pneumonia is treated comes the manner in which it is nursed. As Graves said years ago, "It is of the utmost importance to economise the patient's strength in fever. The very act of lifting him up, or removing him from one side to another, tends to produce exhaustion." Neither in pneumonia nor in typhus should the patient be allowed to assume an upright position lest cardiac failure should ensue. Hence the necessity for skilled nursing, which will save the sufferer from fatigue in a thousand and one ways. But the nurse must be one such as Shakespeare describes in Cymheline— So kind, so duteous, diligent, So tender over his occasions, true. So feat, so nurse-like. The skilled nursing of pneumonia is then of paramount importance both by night and by day. It should be unceasing. One care the nurse should have is to prevent the patient talking—in pneumonia, speaking inflicts a far greater strain npon the patient's breathing than in other disease. It also induces fits of coughing, which exhaust the strength. The dieting of the patient is all-important. As in enteric fever, the food should be liquid, very nourishing, easily assimilable, given in moderate quantities at rather short intervals. More risk results to the patient from over-feeding than from starving. During the fever the