446 PYEMIA pyogenes—bacteria which under normal circum- stances exist in the body as saprophytes. The practical question which presents itself is there- fore : What are the agencies by which the tissues, e.g. of the alimentary tract, skin surface, respiratory tract, etc., are protected from the in- jurious action of these bacteria ? This question is a most important one, and receives much less attention than it merits. Its undoubted com- plexity should not interfere with our giving it thoughtful attention. The problems of general and of local immunity are probably the most important questions in present-day medicine and surgery; these have been fully discussed in the general article on " Immunity " in an earlier volume. The future will probably show that the bone-marrow function calls for a much closer and more minute investigation in regard to the problems of subacute and chronic septicEemia and pysemic condition (see also " Rheujiatism "). Pya,rthrosiS.—The presence of pus in a joint. See Joints, Diseases op {Pyogenic). Pycno-.—In compound words pycno- or pyhio- (Gr. ttwvos, firm or thick) means thick or condensed ; e.g. pycnophrasia (thickness of speech) SuW^ pycnosis (a condensation or inspis- sation of an organ or a fluid). Pyeli'tiSa — Inflammation affecting the pelvis and calyces of the kidney (Gr. ttu'cAos, a vessel or trough). See Bladder, Injuries and Diseases of {Chronic Cystitis, Diagnosis); Kid- ney, Surgical Affections of {Floating Kidney, Kidney Injuries, Pyelitis, Stone); Liver, Tropi- cal Abscess {Diagnosis); Malaria {Diagnosis); Typhoid Fever {Complications, Pyelitis). PyelO-.—In compound words pyelo- (Gr. ttu'eXos, a vessel) means relating to the pelvis of the kidney; e.g. pyelocystitis (inflammation of the bladder and of the pelvis of the kidney) and pyelolithotomy (removal of a calculus by incision into the pelvis of the kidney). Pyelonephritis. See Kidney, Surgi- cal Affections op {Suppurative Pyelonephritis), Pyeiotomy.—Incision into the pelvis of the kidney. See Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Opjerative Procedures). PygO-.—In compound words pygo- (Gr. TTvyrj, the buttocks or rump) means relating to the gluteal region or breech, e.g. pygomelus (a teratological type of double monster in which one or two rudimentary limbs are attached to the gluteal region of the autosite). PygfOpa.g'US. — A double monster con- sisting of two individuals united by the sacrum and coccyx. See Teratology {Double Monsters). Pykno-. See Pycno-. Pyie-. — In compound words pyle- (Gr. TTvX-r], a gate or port) means relating to the portal vein, e.g. pylephlehectasis (dilatation of the portal vein). Pylephlebitis. — Inflammation of the portal vein. See Appendix Vermipormis {Ap- pendicitis. Results); Gall-Bladder and Bile Ducts, Diseases of {Cholangitis); Liver, Tropi- cal Abscess of {Diagriosis); Liver, Diseases of {Pylephlebitis, Portal Thrombosis). PylethrombOSiS.—Thrombosis of the vena portfe. See Liver, Diseases of {Pyle- 2)hlebitis, Portal Thro7nbosis). Py logos in, Leber's. See Suppura- tion {Bacterial Products). Pylor-.—In compound words pylor- (Gr. TrvXtDpos, a gate-keeper) means relating to the pylorus. Pylora.lg'ia..—Pain in the pyloric end of the stomach. Pylorectomy.—Excision of the pylorus. See Stomach, Surgical Affections of {Ope7-a- tions on the Stomach, Resection of the Pyloric Segment); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases op {Treatment of Dilatation of the Stomach, Surgical). Pyloric. — Relating to the pylorus ; e.g. the pyloric orifice, artery, plexus, and vein. See Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases op {Anatomy). PylorOCleisiS. — Obstruction of the pylorus. PylorodiOSiS. —Mechanical stretching and dilatation of the pylorus. See Stomach, Surgical Affections of {Operations). Pyloroplasty. — Plastic surgery as applied to the pylorus. See Stomach, Surgical Affections of {Operations). Py IO ro ptOS i S.—Downward displacement of the pyloric end of the stomach. See Indi- gestion {Symptoms). Py I oroS p£lS m.—Spasmodic contraction of the pyloric end of the stomach. Py IO restenosis. — Constriction or stenosis of the pylorus. Pylorus. See Gall-Bladder and Bile Ducts, Diseases op {Tumours of the Gall- Bladder, Diagnosis); Gastro-Intestinal Dis- orders of Infancy {Congenital Hypertrophy of the Pylorus); Liver, Diseases op {Acquired Deformities, Constriction Lobe, Diagnosis); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Anatomy, Morbid Anatomy, General and Special Symptom- atology); Stomach, Surgical Affections of {Pyloric Obstruction, Cancer, etc.).