QUININE 456 onset of a paroxysm quinine should be ad- ministered, so as to destroy the spores which have been set free. In severe forms of the disease and in pernicious malarial fever quinine may be given hypodermically or even intra- venously in large doses. The best salts for these purposes are the lactate and the acid hydrochloride. The hypodermic should be given into the buttock, and the intravenous injection into a vein of the leg in very dilute solution, injected slowly, so as to avoid the depressant effect on the heart. In neuralgia of malarial origin quinine acts very beneficially. Quinine is the prophylactic against malaria, and should be taken in doses of from 2 to 4 grs. three times daily by susceptible individuals in malarial districts. After suffering from malaria, the patient should continue to take quinine until a complete cure has been effected. Quinine is not the cause of blackwater fever, as has been supposed, but it should not be given in this disease imless the parasites are actually present in the blood. Quinine is not now largely used as an antipyretic. To obtain this effect to any marked degree large doses must be employed, and these are depressing. It is often prescribed empirically for influenza in comparatively small doses. It is employed as a bitter tonic in general debility, in anaemia, and in gastric inactivity. In some cases of neuralgia it has a good effect, best given perhaps in a single large dose. It increases the contractions of the uterus, and is helpful in uterine inertia during labour. It will not of itself produce abortion, and may safely be administered, when required, to pregnant women with or without the addition of opium or a bromide. It has been recom- mended for whooping-cough, in doses of IJ gr. three times daily for every year of the child's age. In the strength of 1 or 2 grs. to the ounce, it may be sprayed on the throat in colds of the head and in tonsillitis. High rectal injections of the strength of 1 in 3000 have proved of value in amoebic dysentery. For the general tonic effects the cinchona preparations are often prescribed, but for all other purposes the salts of quinine are to be preferred. Quinism.—The condition produced by large doses of quinine, or by ordinary doses in specially susceptible individuals ; cinchonism ; the symptoms are ringing in the ears, headache, deafness, etc. See Quinine. Quinoiine.—An alkaloid (CgH^N) re- lated both to benzene and to pyridine, and obtained from coal-tar or from the destructive distillation of quinine. Quinone.—When quinic acid (CyH^oOe) is oxidised, quinone (CgH^Oo) is formed." See Hydroquinone. QuinOSOi. See Chinosol. Quinquaud's Disease.—An affec- tion of the hair follicles of the skin with cicatrisation; tinea decalvans. Quinsy. See Tonsils, Diseases of {Acute Tonsillitis); Diphtheria (Diagnosis). Quintan.—Recurring after three days interval, viz. on the first, fifth, ninth, thirteenth days, and so on; e.g. quintan ague. See Malaria. Quintipara.—A woman who has given birth five times, or who is pregnant for the fifth time. Quintuplets.—Five children at a birth. See Pregnancy, Multiple (Varieties). Quotidian.—Recurring once in twenty- four hours; e.g. ague, which has a paroxysm daily. See Malaria. Quotient.—The result of division, e.g. the blood quotient (colour index) is the propor- tionate amount of hjemoglobin contained in each red blood corpuscle, and this is obtained by dividing the quantity of hsemoglobin in the blood by the number of erythrocytes. Q USil Uf. See Pellagra (Synonyms, Egypt). R.—The contraction for recipe in prescription- writing. See Prescribing. Rabbit Soup. See Invalid Feeding (Convalescence). Rabies. History ...... 456 Etiology ...... 457 Symptoms . . . . . . 457 Forms 459 Progress ...... 459 Duration ...... 459 Termination ...... 459 Prognosis ...... 459 Diagnosis ...... 459 Pathological Anatomy .... 460 Bacteriology . . . . . .461 Treatment— I. Prophylactic .... 463 II. Curative. \st, After the Bite; 2nd, After the appearance of rabies 463 Syn.—Hydrophobia. Rabies is a virulent disease transmissible by inoculation, and contracted by man from the bite of a mad animal. History.—Although rabies is without doubt a disease of ancient times, it was not recognised by the physicians of olden days. Aristotle writes about the rabies of dogs, but he firmly believed man to be exempt from it. The Alex- andrian doctors were the first to record reliable facts about human rabies. During the Middle Ages, and indeed until the