157 PNEUMONIA—BACTERIOLOGICAL SECTION acute pneumonia it is understood that the term is limited to certain forms of acute pulmonary inflammation, all microbic in origin, and prob- ably all due to or associated with Fraenkel's pneumococcus, but that all forms of the typical lobar type are necessarily included. Historical.—Long before any bacterium had been associated with acute lobar pneumonia as the causal agent it had been suspected that this condition was infective and analogous in every way to the acute specific fevers. Its occurrence in epidemic form, and some instances apparently of direct infection, together with the definite course of the fever, all tended to support this view. But it was not until 1883 that the first important contribution to the bacteriology of acute pneumonia was made. In that year Friedliinder published a paper which attracted much attention, and in which he claimed to have obtained in pure cultures the causal microbe of pneumonia. This, he described as a cocciis, usually occurring in pairs, and surrounded by a definite capsule. They were found in the lung tissue, bronchi, etc., in cases of acute pneumonia. They could be iso- lated and grown on peptone gelatine at the ordinary room temperature. From this fact alone it is obvious that the coccus described and isolated by Friedlander is not the same as that which is now accepted as the most im- portant getiological factor in acute pneumonia and is associated with the name of Fraenkel. In fact the organism which Friedlander at first described as a coccus has now come to be re- garded as a short bacillus, and is commonly known as Friedlander's pneumobacillus. Inocu- lation of animals with Friedlander's organism, however, in many instances caused death from septicaemia with inflammation of the serous membranes, thus demonstrating the pathogenic capacity of the organism in certain conditions. One of the most important results of Friedlander's work was the stimulus it afibrded to the study of the bacteriology of pneumonia. In the same year (1883) Talamon described a coccus which he obtained from the sputum and pulmonary exudation in acute pneumonia, and which from its shape he termed " lanceolatus." This organism he was able to cultivate in bouillon, but usually in an impure condition, and inoculation of rabbits produced a septi- caemia often associated with a fibrinous peri- carditis and pleurisy. There can be little doubt that this organism is the same as the pneumococcus later described and isolated by Fraenkel. As early as 1880 certain observations were made in America by Sternberg and in France by Pasteur on the presence in the saliva in health and in disease of micrococci, and on the fact that inoculation of rabbits with saliva eave rise to a "sputum septicgemia," in which the blood teemed with micrococci. The significance of these observations was not at first appre- ciated. After a preliminary communication in 1884 Fraenkel published in 1886 a very full and accurate description of the characters of the pneumococcus—noted its lanceolate outline, its occurrence in pairs, and its capsulated appear- ance. He succeeded in isolating pure cultures, and found that both in its cultural and patho- genic characters the microbe differed from that previously described by Friedlander. In par- ticular, Fraenkel's organism did not grow on gelatine at the ordinary room temperature, and it was highly pathogenic to rabbits, in both these respects contrasting with Friedlander's organism. Another important advance made by Fraenkel was the identification of the pneu- mococcus with the " coccus of sputum septi- caemia " previously described in healthy saliva by Pasteur and Sternberg. In the same year (1886) Weichselbaum inde- pendently published the results of a still more extensive research on the bacteriology of acute pneumonia, including 94 cases of the typical lobar form and 35 other cases of acute pul- monary inflammation. From these he isolated four organisms: (1) The "diplococcus pneu- moniae," which he described as an oval or lanceolate coccus, corresponding in morpho- logical, cultural, and pathogenic characters with Fraenkel's pneumococcus; (2) the " strepto- coccus pneumoniae," which, on the whole, pre- sented similar characters, but was rounder and formed longer chains ; (3) the " bacillus pneu- moniae," which he regarded as identical with Friedlander's pneumobacillus; (4) the " staphy- lococcus pyogenes aureus." Of these organisms the "diplococcus pneumoniae" was present in the great majority of cases, the "streptococcus " was much less common, and the " bacillus pneu- moniae " rarer still. He was led to the conclu- sion that while the great majority of cases of acute pneumonia are due to the "diplococcus pneumoniae" (Fraenkel's pneumococcus), some ai'e caused mainly by a streptococcus, and a few by the "bacillus pneumoniae" (Friedlander's pneumobacillus). How far the streptococcus pneumoniae of Weichselbaum corresponds with the ordinary streptococcus pyogenes, and how far with Fraenkel's pneumococcus, is left some- what uncertain ; and what is of more importance, the reader is left uncertain as to the data on which his conclusions are based, in particular, whether they have reference to acute lobar pneumonia in its limited acceptation or acute pneumonia in its widest sense. Since these earlier researches were published the attention of many observers has been de- voted to the elucidation of problems involved in the relation of micro-organisms, especially the pneumococcus, to acute pneumonia. Among the later contributors may be noted Gamaleia, who investigated in particular the pathogenic