57 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES three pairs of compound glands—-the salivary glands—open. The parotid, lined entirely by enzyme-secreting epithelium, opens on the side of the cheek, while the submaxillary gland, composed partly of acini with enzyme-secreting, and partly of acini with mucin- secreting epi- thelium, and the sublingual, com- posed entirely of mucin - secreting acini, open un- der the tongue (S.G.). The tongue is covered with a fine fur of pro- cesses, the Jili- form pap nice, which are of use in passing the food backwards along its surface in the act of swallowing. (For Organs of Taste, see vol. vii. p. 531.) Posteriorly, the mouth opens into the pharynx Fia. 157.—Diagram of the parts of the (^''*-) ^iPPei" alimentary canal, from mouth to anus, part of the gul- r., Tonsils; PA., pharynx ; S.tf., sali- ipi p„„l, vary glands ; Oe., oisophagus ; C, car- • ectoii diac; Pi/-, Pyloric portion of stomach; side, between D, duodenum; Li., liver; P., pan- ,i ,i -, creas; J., jejunum; /., ileum; 1'., the mOUth and vermiform appendix; Co;., colon ; i;., pharynx is the tonsil {T.\ an almond-like mass of lymphoid tissue. The pharynx is a cavity which can be shut off above from the posterior nares by raising the soft palate, and by pulling forward the posterior pharyngeal wall. It is surrounded by three constrictor muscles, which, by contracting from above downwards, force the food down the gullet, towards the stomach. The oesophagus (Oe.) is' a muscular-walled tube lined by a stratified squamous epithelium. The muscles, below the lowest constrictor of the pharynx, are of the visceral type, and are arranged in two layers, an outer longitudinal layer and an inner circular layer. The stomach is a dilatation of the alimentary canal into which the gullet opens. To the left it expands into a sac-lik9 cardiac end (C), and to the right it narrows, forming the pyloric end (Py.). Like the gullet, it is surrounded by visceral muscular fibres, arranged essentially in two sets. At the cardiac orifice, the circular fibres form a not very marked cardiac sphincter, and at the pyloric end they form a very thick and strong pyloric sphincter. The mucous membrane, which is covered by a columnar epithelium, is largely composed of tubular glands, those at the cardiac end con- taining two kinds of cells, the peptic and the oxyntic cells, those at the pyloric end containing peptic cells alone. The Small Intestine is a tube of about 7 metres in length. It has a double muscular coat like the stomach. The mucous membrane, which is covered by a columnar epithelium, is thickly set with simple test-tube-like glands—- LieberMihn's follicles — and is projected into the lumen of the tube, as a series of delicate finger- like processes, the villi. The tissue of the villi and that between the Lieberklihn's follicles is chiefly lymphoid, and in certain places this lymphoid tissue is massed in nodules which are either placed singly or grouped together in the lower part of the small intestine to form Peyer's patches. In the first part of the small intestine —the upper part of the duodenum (Z>.)—the submucous layer is full of small branching glands lined by an enzyme-secreting epithelium (Brunner's glands). The Large Intestine is about 2 metres in length. The small intestine enters it at one side, and the opening is guarded by a muscular sphincter and by a fold of mucous membrane which forms the ileo-cpecal valve. Above tlie opening of the small intestine a C£ecal pouch exists, and at the top of this is the vermiform appendix {V.), a narrow tube with an abundance of lymph tissue in its wall. Below the opening of the small intestine is the colon {Col.), which, after passing up the right side across the abdo- men and down the left side, takes an S-like bend to end in the rectum (R.), which, passing for- ward, suddenly turns down and opens at the anus. The sudden bend is of importance in retaining the contents of the rectum. The last part of the rectum is surrounded by a strong band of muscle—the internal sphincter ani—by which it is compressed. The whole large in- testine is covered by columnar epithelium, and is studded with Lieberklihn's follicles, in which the epithelium is chiefly mucus-secreting in type. There are no villi. The muscular coat of the colon differs from that of the rest of the alimentary canal in that the longitudinal fibres are arranged in three bands. Into the duodenum, the bile duct and the duct of the pancreas open. The bile duct is formed by the union of the ducts from the lobes of the liver. Upon its course is a diverticulum, the gall bladder. The Liver (Li.) is a large solid organ, formed originally as a double outgrowth from the alimentary canal. Each of these out- growths branches repeatedly, and the blood coming from the mother to the foetus flows in a number of capillary channels between the branches. Later, when the alimentary canal has developed, the blood from it is streamed between the liver tubules. In man and in other