PSEUDOAPOPLEXY 333 resembling apoplexy, which may occur in cases of fatty degeneration of the heart. PseudoappendicitiS.—A hysterical affection simulating inflammation of the appendix vermiformis. PseudobaCillUS.—This term is given to fat crystals staining like the tubercle bacillus and occurring sometimes in sputum. Pseudobiliary Colic.—Acute pain in the upper part of the abdomen resembling that met with in cases of gall-stones, but due entirely to nervous causes. PseudoblepsiS.—A hallucination of vision. Pseudobulbar Paralysis.—Bulbar paralysis of cerebral origin. See Brain, Affec- tions OF Blood-Vessels {Paralysis, Pseudo- bulbar). Pseudocavernous Sig^ns.—The physical signs usually associated with the presence of a vomica in the lung, but due in this case to the contiguity of an area of consolidation to a large bronchvis. Pseudochromaesthesia.—An " anomaly in the perception of visual sensations, in which the vowels in words appear coloured, each having a different tint" (Hack Tuke). Pseu doc roup.—False croup; laryn- gismus stridulus, due, for instance, to post-nasal adenoids. See Nose, Post-nasal Adenoid Growths (Symptoms, Nervous). Pseudocyesis, or Spurious Preg'nancy. See also Climacteric Insanity (Pseudocyesis); Hysteria {Digestive Organs, Dis- orders, Tympanitis) ; Menstruation and its Dis- orders {Amenorrhoea from Nervous Disturbance). —This comparatively rare condition is a variety of a group of cases recognised under the heading of " Phantom Tumours." It occurs chiefly amongst those who have recently been married, or who are approaching or have reached the menopause, or in cases where illicit intercourse has occurred followed by fear of pregnancy. Again, in some cases no reason can be assigned for the occurrence of this phenomenon, while in others it may arise as a result of an eczema- tous patch in the neighbourhood of the umbilicus, as in a case described by Sir William Bennett, or as a result of pelvic peritonitis, which produces partial obstruction of the sigmoid owing to the formation of adhesions. Opinions differ as to method of formation of such tumours. Some distinguished authorities, amongst whom may be mentioned Addison, Gull, Paget, Spencer Wells, Bennett, believe that they arise by contraction of the abdominal muscles. While others, following the researches of M'Ardle and Kolipinski, hold that they are generated by an atonic condition of the intestines, which results in the accumulation of gas and consequently distension. Sir James Y. Simpson was of opinion that spasm of the diaphragm was the cause. It is worthy of note that such tumours are not confined to the human species; they also occur in the bitch and ass. Two types may be described amongst women who suffer from this condition: in one there is abdominal enlargement, and no other symptoms present except those of imaginary foetal move- ments due to flatulence; in the other there is also abdominal enlargement, and in addition many of the symptoms and some of the signs of an ordinary pregnancy. Amenorrhoea, morning sickness, mammary changes, may be present in the latter type. The diagnosis of the condition is easy, provided that one is not deceived by the state- ments of the patient, and that a physical examination is made. Suspicion as to the true state of affairs may be aroused by the mental attitude and age of the patient as well as by incongruity in her statements; signs and symptoms not developing in correct order, or being absent when they should be present. On examination it may be found that increase in the size of the breast and abdomen is due to the deposition of fat. In nulliparae no mammary secretion can be expressed. Even in cases where the abdomen is the size of a full-time pregnancy the umbilicus remains depressed, and no fresh purple strife gravidarum are present. On percussion over the tumour the note may be dull, but not so absolutely dull as over a pregnant uterus. Auscultation will give negative results, and though the intestines are distended with gas, borborygmi in most cases are not audible. On vaginal examination the usual signs of pregnancy are absent. Diagnosis may be confirmed by placing the patient under the influence of an antesthetic. When complete ansesthesia has been reached the tumour gradu- ally disappears. Bennett recommends that the hand should be gently placed on the tumour from the time when administration of the anaesthetic is begun. During the earlier stages it will be found to increase a little in size and hardness. With the onset of complete anaes- thesia a little quivering motion will be felt, and then the tumour will gradually melt away under the hand. They never disappear suddenly. Prognosis.—In many cases, especially amongst recently married women, the tumour and all symptoms of pregnancy disappear when the true state of affairs has been revealed. In others, again, the condition ends only when a spurious labour has convinced the patient of the truth of the obstetrician's diagnosis. While in some, and more especially in nulliparous women who have reached the menopause, it may be impossible to dispel the delusion from which