40 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES resting position of the chest is that of expira- tion. To expand the chest the costal cartilages have to be twisted. 3rd. The Elasticity of the Abdominal Wall.— As the cavity of the thorax increases downwards, the abdominal viscera are pushed against the muscular abdominal wall, which, in virtue of its elasticity, resists the stretching force. In studying how these changes are brought about we may consider— \st. The Increase in the Thorax from above downwards. This is due to the contraction of the diaphragm (Fig. 144). In expiration this dome-like muscle, rising FiS. 144.—Vertical-tangential, transverse, and vertical-mesial sections of the thorax in inspiration and expiration. from the vertebral column and from the lower costal margin, arches upwards, lying for some distance along the inner surface of the ribs and then curving inwards to be inserted into the flattened central tendon, to which is attached the pericardium and on which rests the heart. In inspiration the muscular fibres contract. But the central tendon being fixed by the pericardium does not undergo extensive move- ment. The result of the muscular contraction is thus to flatten out the more marginal part of the muscle and to withdraw it more or less from the chest wall—thus opening up a space, the complemental pleura, into which the lungs expand (Fig. 144). The existence of this complemental pleura is of great importance in cases of accumulation of fluid in the chest, for the fluid may collect and push down the diaphragm without materially altering the lower margin of the lungs. | It might be expected that this contraction of the diaphragm would pull inwards the chest wall—but this is prevented by the expansion of the thorax in the lateral and antero-posterior diameters as a result of the mechanism which has next to be considered. Nevertheless in young children, in whom the chest wall is soft, an indrawing of the chest with each contraction of the diaphragm may occur, and may lead to permanent distortion of the thorax. 2nd. The liicrease in the Chest in the antero- posterior and lateral diameters. This is brought about by the elevation of the ribs, which rotate round the axis of their attach- ments to the vertebral column. To understand this, the mode of the connec- tion of the ribs to the vertebral column must be borne in mind. The head of the rib is attached to the bodies of two adjacent vertebrae. The tubercle of the rib is attached to the trans- verse process of the lower of these vertebrse. From this the shaft of the rib projects outwards, downwards and forwards, to be attached in front to the sternum by the costal cartilage. If the rib is made to rotate round its two points of attachment, its lateral margin is elevated and carried outwards, while its anterior end is carried forwards and upwards {see Fig. 145). Further, as we pass from above downwards, each pair of ribs forms the arc of a larger and larger circle, and as each pair rises it takes the place of a smaller pair above. In these ways, the chest is increased from before backwards and from side to side. The first pair of ribs does not undergo this movement; the mo- tion of the second pair of ribs is slight, but the range of move- ment becomes greater and greater as we pass downwards until the floating ribs are reached, and these are fixed by the abdominal muscles. This greater movement is simply due to the greater length of the muscles moving the ribs. The muscles are chiefly the exter- nal intercostal muscles, and these may be considered as acting from the fixed first rib. Now, if the fibres of the first in- tercostal muscle are one inch in length, the sec- ond rib can be raised, say, half an inch. The first and second intercostals acting on the third rib will together be two inches in length, and in contracting they can raise the third rib through, say, half of two inches—i.e. one inch. The first, second, and third intercostals, acting on the fourth rib, are three inches in length, and can therefore raise this rib half of three, or one Fia. 145.—Shoves the movements of the ribs from their position in expiration to their position in inspiration.