OPTIC NERVE 521 RETINA AND system, in which structural adaptations have occurred necessary for its special function of being stimulated by waves of light. The stimuli so produced—which vary in character according to the length and height of the waves—it is also capable of transmitting to the brain, by means of the elongated processes of its ganglion cells, familiarly known as optic-nerve fibres. It will be sufficient for our present purposes to describe the anatomy of the retina very briefly. It consists of two distinct parts— pigment-epithelium and retina proper. The former lies immediately on and is closely at- tached to the inner surface of the choroid, and is formed by a single layer of large pigmented cells; in these cells subtle changes, probably mainly chemical in nature, are produced under the influence of light. The retina proper lines the greater part of the interior of the eyeball, beginning a little behind the ciliary body and reaching to the optic disc: it is made up of several layers—nei've-epithelium, nerve-cells, and nerve-fibres—held together by a supporting framework of delicate connective tissue. The nerve-epithelium is in contact with and slightly embedded in the pigment - epithelium; the absence of any true structural union between these two epithelial layers renders a separation liable to occur under certain circumstances. On the inner surface of the retina are the nerve- fibres, which converge and meet at the disc. Between these surface layers are numerous nerve-cells and their processes. The most im- portant of these next the fibre layers are large ganglion cells, whose greatly elongated central processes (axons) constitute the fibres just men- tioned in the retina, and then run and are continiied by the optic nerves and tracts to gain the basal ganglia of the brain. The larger blood-vessels of the retina lie near its inner surface, while the smaller branches run both in the inner and middle retinal layers, but none enter the nerve epithelium. The arteries do not anastomose with one another, nor is there any communication between these vessels and those of neighbouring structures after leaving the disc, so that the retinal circulation is terminal. Near the centre of the retina (to the outer side of the disc) is a small spot called the fovea centralis, where the epithelial layers (pig- ment and nerve epithelium) are alone present. Ophthalmoscopic Appearances.—On ophthal- moscopic examination, the normal retina, apart from its blood-vessels, is practically invisible, as it does not manifestly interfere with the passage of light to and from the chorio-capillaris. It is not qtiite transparent, however, and we can usually detect the presence of the retinal pig- ment as a very fine, dark stippling, visible on the red fundus when the pigment is very well developed. In persons of dark complexion, and particularly in dark races, the red fundus reflex is very decidedly obscured; while this reflex is particularly bright in light-complexioned people, on account of the small amount of pigment present. About two disc-diameters to the temporal side of the disc, the "yellow spot" region is recognisable by its darker shade of red, destitute of visible blood-vessels; near the centre of this area is a small brighter spot, marking the position of the fovea centralis. The retinal blood-vessels should be carefully studied in normal eyes, particularly in young people. We should note the relative colour and size, and the character of the central light-streak in the arteries and veins. It will be observed that both sets of vessels usually branch dichotomously. Diseases of the retina can only be detected by ophthalmoscopic examination. As already mentioned, the retina, with the exception of its blood-vessels and its pigment-epithelium, is almost quite transparent, and is therefore practically invisible ophthalmoscopically. Its diseased conditions are recognised, accordingly, by changes in its blood-vessels or in its pigment- epithelium, or by a loss of its normal transpar- ency. The loss of transparency may be general or localised, sharply limited or diff'use, and such opacities may vary greatly in shape, size, and colour; we may mention as examples, retinal oedema, haemorrhages, and inflammatory exudations. Changes in Retinal Blood-Vessels.—Dis- turbances in the retinal circulation Qiay be shown by changes in the size and course of the vessels, in the appearance of their walls, and by a visible pulsation. In estimating the size of the retinal vessels we regard chiefly the larger branches on and near the optic disc, comparing them with our mental impression of those in an average normal eye. The departure from normal may apply to all the vessels, or to the arteries or veins alone; or it may only be observed in one or two branches ; or again, the same vessel may show an irregularity in its calibre at diff'erent points. On making observa- tions on the relative size of the arteries and veins, it is to be remembered that the normal artery has a diameter of about two-thirds that of the corresponding vein. By the direct method of observation the vessels will appear larger in the mj'opic and somewhat smaller in the hypermetropic eye, while by the indirect method an opposite effect will be produced. An erroneous estimation of size may also be caused by failing to note an abnormal rate of subdivision—the earlier the branching occurs the smaller the individual vessels will be at a given distance from the centre of the disc. (1) A general enlargement of the retinal vessels, with an unusually dark blood-column, is present in congenital defects of the heart with cyanosis. The retinal vessels ai-e also found somewhat distended in extreme cases of Graves' disease. A general reduction in the size of the vessels is occasionally present in marked ansemia