238 PREGNANCY, MANAGEMENT OF One foetus may die and be retained without undergoing maceration or decomposition. It is expelled and found amongst the membranes, flattened and shrivelled, the foetus papyraceus v. compressiis. Well-authenticated cases have been recorded where one foetus has aborted and been expelled, the pregnancy, nevertheless, continuing with the other and reaching maturity at the full time. In the later months a considerable interval of days and even weeks in a few cases has elapsed between the births of the two children. Some of these have been proved to be due to litems duplex, and probably all are. Such an occurrence, and the occasional great disparity between the two children, gave origin to the hypothesis of superfcetation, by which is meant the possibility of a woman being capable of con- ceiving a second time when already pregnant for one or more months. Excluding ectopic gestation and the presense of a double uterus, such a hypothesis is now held to be " physi- ologically untenable." Superfecundation, or the impregnation of a woman a second time, by two separate sexual acts within one intermenstrual period, is totally different, and has been proved to occur by cases where the fathers of the twins have been of different races. But the short interval within which such second impregnation must take place does not explain the great dis- parity in development, nor the greater interval that has occurred in some cases between the separate births. Management of Pregnancy Pregnancy, besides producing local changes in the sexual apparatus, is the cause of a wide- spread alteration throughout the whole of the body. The organs of a pregnant woman have to adapt themselves to a changed order of things {see "Physiology of Pregnancy"). Possibly the most important change is the conspicuous alter- ation in the quality of the blood and the increase in its quantity, this throwing an increased strain on all the excretory functions—lungs, kidneys, bowels, skin. If any of these organs are not equal to the increased pressure put upon them, symptoms, moderate or severe, of toxEemia supervene (p. 227). The main indication for management thus lies along the lines of maintaining as good a hygienic state as possible, and when any organ is known not to be quite sound, to assist it as far as possible to stand the extra strain. When a pregnant woman is healthy and leads at ordinary times a sensible hygienic life, nothing is better than that she should adhere to the same mode of life as suited her well before. Regular exercise in the open air is most im- portant, and should be insisted upon. It is undoubtedly injurious to lie in bed most of the forenoon, and rest on a sofa in the afternoon. Such practices are only justifiable in a healthy woman, at the date at which a menstruate period is due, if there is a history of previous abortions. This " over taking care " brings on indigestion and sleeplessness, and also loss of tone in the muscles, which makes the labour more prolonged, and brings about a loss of recuperative power during the puerperium. We have a good object-lesson in the wives of working-men, who continue to work until labour commences, without detriment to themselves. Violent exercise of any sort tends to produce miscarriage. Driving over rough roads, pro- longed railway journeys, dancing, and bicycling, except in the early months, should be forbidden. The lifting and carrying of heavy weights must be avoided; while the continuous use of a sewing-machine or systematic massage are also not advisable. The increased elimination of carbonic acid gas makes it imperative that the patient should have plenty of fresh air ; thus crowded churches theatres, concerts, balls, and crowded, stuffy rooms should be avoided. Going to bed early and sleeping in a large, well-ventilated room are important. Mental excitement should be avoided. Irritability of temper i-equires great forbearance on the part of the patient's friends. Clothing.—The enlargement of the breasts and abdomen and the increase of the cutaneous vascular system make it necessary to have a change in the clothing. Light warm garments to prevent chilling of the body, and roomy clothes that do not interfere with the respira- tion and circulation, are required. The dress should be loose and easy, with no tight waist- band. After the three and a half months the ordinary corset should be discarded and special corsets used, which support the enlarging breasts without pressure on the nipple, and which also have a band at the lower edge which can be let out on either side with laces as the abdomen increases in size. In multiparse with flaccid abdominal walls, a belt will be found of great comfort; it can be made of flannel or lint, and made to fit. Tight garters are injurious, stocking sus- penders being used instead; the sooner these are used the Isetter chance of avoiding trouble- some varicose veins. After the fifth month, when the increasing abdomen lifts the petticoats off" the lower part of the abdomen and thighs, loose flannel drawers should be worn to prevent chills. Diet.—As far as our knowledge at present takes us, the diet of a pregnant woman should be a good general mixed diet of plain, well- cooked, simple food, taken at regular intervals. The quantity of nourishment need not exceed what is usually required by a healthy woman, but it is well to take food in smaller quantities and more frequently during the later months, when the enlarged uterus presses against the