PINGUECULA OR PINGUICULA 103 Ping-uecula or Ping-uicula.—A small tumour or yellow patch situated on the ocular conjunctiva, usually on each side of the cornea. See Conjunctiva, Diseases of (Various Conditions, Pinguecula). Pinic Acid. — A constituent of brown resin, having the formula C20H3QO2, and yield- ing, if cautiously heated, colophonic acid. Pink-eye.—A sort of influenza in horses. See Influenza {Historical). Pinna.—The external ear or auricle. See Ear, External, Diseases of {Anatomy). PinOCytOSiS.—The power believed to be possessed by phagocytes of imbibing liquids and so rendering them harmless; the word is derived from the Greek ttiVw, I drink, and kvtos, a cell or jar. Pinol. See Pine Oil. Pinta. Definition. — A tropical disease of the skin, characterised by the development of variously coloured patches which later become scaly. The chief countries in which the disease is frequently met with are: — Brazil, Mexico, (especially the provinces of Michoacan and Guerrero), Central America, Venezuela, Colombia, and Peru. It is particularly common in the neighbourhood of creeks and marshes, and is never found at a greater altitude than 2000 metres. It affects all races, but more especially the half-breeds and those in poor circumstances, while the pure negro seems to enjoy a partial immunity. Symptoms.—The disease begins as one or more small patches, usually situated on the face or extremities, seldom on covered parts. The colour is at first usually slightly red from hypereemia in white subjects, but in blacks the patch may be fawn-coloured from the first. The patches rapidly become scaly, and then develop gradually their characteristic colour. This may be a blue or a black in the more superficial varieties, or a red or white in the deeper form. New patches continue to form, while the old ones spread centrifugally, until eventually the whole body with the exception of the palms and soles may be affected. Pruritus is almost invariably severe, and may be noticed even before the appearance of the skin changes. As the patches become older the skin under- goes more or less degenerative changes, hair turns white and falls out, and the skin shows hard papules, rugosity, and general sclerosis. Probably most of these later changes are due to scratching, since most writers agree that in the chronic widespread cases the itching be- comes intense. In the deep variety there is occasionally a discharge superadded, and in the flexures of joints troublesome ulceration may occur. In cases where discharge or ulceration occurs the patient acquires a disagreeable odour, which has been likened to the smell of dirty linen or cat's urine. There are no constitutional symptoms other than those induced by the continual itching, and the disease may, if un- treated, persist during the whole lifetime of the patient without serious consequences. Etiology and Pathology.—There still exists some difference of opinion as to the nature of the disease, Lier, of Mexico, maintaining that it is not contagious, after numerous failures in the attempt to inoculate it, and therefore con- sidering that it is rather to be regarded as an abnormality of pigmentation due to attempted adaptation of the skin to the tropical climate. Gastambide, on the other hand, described several varieties of fungus belonging to the order of moulds (penicillium), which he found present in the horny layer in the blue and black varieties, and in the deeper layers of the epi- dermis and corium in the red and white varieties. The fungi varied in the different colours, and Gastambide points out that though the same patient may exhibit several colours at once in different patches, yet a patch of one colour never develops into one of another. The majority of observers seem to agree more or less with Gastambide's views, regarding it as contagious and due to a mould. Inoculation may occur directly from another patient, or possibly by the bites and stings of insects. Some confusion still seems to exist as to the relation of the disease to those described under the names of Carates and Cute. Most writers assume that they are identical, but Barbe insists that they are all three separate affections, and says that they may be distinguished by the following characteristics:—Carates is a slowly progressive disease, taking three years to reach its period stage of full development; pinta is much more rapid, may develop in forty- eight hours, and is extremely contagious; cute is also a disease of rapid development, and differs from both the others in that it is accom- panied by fever. No difficulty should be found in making the diagnosis in patients who come from the affected area. From leprosy the distinction could easily be made by the absence of the characteristic ansesthesia, from Addison's disease by the absence of mai-ked asthenia and abdominal crises, from tinea versicolor, erythrasma, and trichophytosis by the examination of the scales. The treatment is that of other epiphytic diseases of the skin, e.g. unguentum chrysa- robini, unguentum hydrargyri nitratis, linimen- tum iodi. Long-established cases require great persistence in the treatment, as the disease is extremely liable to recur.