462 EABIES Inoculation with Virus.—All parts are not equally favourable for inoculation. The surest and most rapid entrance is inoculation in the seventh nerve ; its results never fail. Pasteur has also trephined the cranium and injected the virulent liquid under the dura mater with equal success. The same holds good of inociilation into the subcutaneous lesser nerves, by tempering a section with one drop of virus (Di Vestea and Zagari). Intra-muscular inoculation has much the same measure of success (Helman). Inoculation by scarification of the skin succeeds only in one-third of the cases, and has besides a very variable incubation. It is only resorted to if the virus is impure. Inoculation of the subcutaneous cellular tissue of the serous or mucous membranes can- not be relied upon. Bardach and Nocard are very doubtful whether injections of rabic spinal cords into the mucous membranes of animals is effective. Galtier also obtained very doubtful results from painting the mucous membrane with virus, so much depends on the condition of the mucus. Inoculation into the blood results, according to circumstances, in either rabies or protective vaccination. In treating dogs, an injection of rabic saliva only infects them with rabies uncertainly, whereas the in- jection of an emulsion of the medulla always residts in rabies (Roux). With regard to ruminants Galtier asserts that venous inocula- tion is vaccinative, not infectant. Intra-uterine transmission of rabies is made by the blood-vessels ; Perroncito, Carita, and Camillac and Gibier all agree as to this fact. Mode of Propagation in the Organism.—Jac- coud had already surmised that the rabic virus is propagated through the nerves. Experiments by Di Vestea and Zagari have proved that after inoculation under the dura mater of the brain the toxins first appear in the medulla, proceed- ing thence to the lumbar enlargement. Again, if the sciatic nerve is inoculated, the lumbar enlargement becomes virulent before the medulla. Lastly, if the nerve is excised below the inocu- lated point, and the peripheric end cauterised, the infection is either abortive or checked for the time. In the same manner if, after inocula- tion of the sciatic nerve, the spinal cord is divided below the origin of the nerve, all the inferior segments of the cord and the nerves which have been divided become virulent, but the superior segment remains normal. These facts have been confirmed by the ex- periments of Roux, who has found that only the nerves nearest the bite are virulent. This accounts for the gravity and rapidity of the virulence when the bites are on the face, a region full of nerves, and nearer the medulla than the limbs. As formerly mentioned, the virus may also be transmitted through the blood-vessels into the body. Nature of the Virus.—The active agent of rabic infection is most probably a living organ- ism. The progress of the disease, its inocula- bility, the resistance of the virus to physical and chemical agents, all point to microbes as the causal agent (Roux). The loss of virulence in filtered liquids, although they can be pre- served and propagated by the filter, betrays the presence of microbes, although the particular microbe has not yet been isolated. Imnmmiisation.—In 1881 Pasteur, in the course of his researches, ascertained that certain dogs inoculated with non-fatal rabic virus were thus vaccinated against subsequent inoculations. His aim then was to procure this immunisation or vaccination by every effort in his power. By passage of the virus a certain number of times through monkeys, Pasteur in 1884 was able to obtain a virus of diminished virulence. Progressive inoculations of this weakened virus were found to immunise dogs against the fixed virus, inoculated by trephining. The following year Pasteur and his colleagues, Chamberland and Roux, discovered a new method of attenuating the virus by desiccation, more unfailingly certain than the other in its results; this method is still in vogvie. Subcutaneous injections of progressive virus immunise the dog against the fixed virus, even if a virulent inoculation precedes the vaccinal inoculation. These attenuated viri are obtained by suspending the rabic spinal cord of rabbits in a flask containing potash, kept in a tempera- ture of 23°. By the sixth day the cord has lost all virulence. To prepare the cord for use, a piece 3 millimetres long is dissolved in 1 centimetre cube of sterilised bouillon. The virus can also be attenuated by diluting an emulsion of rabic tissue in saline solution (Hogyesj. Babes dilutes the cord tissue in the serum of an immunised dog. These viri are usually inoculated under the skin; Galtier also aflirms that ruminants may be inoculated by the blood-vessels, but this process is not infallible. Immunity may be obtained very speedily. Thus it is possible to inoculate dogs, and in eighteen hours they can resist inocu- lation of the fixed virus under the dura mater. Oi'dinarily, immunity cannot be obtained before the tenth day. Immunity renders the subjects capable of sustaining considerable doses of virus by inoculation. An operator has been able with- out difficulty to effect 209 inoculations in six months. The immunity lasts one year in 21 cases out of 100 dogs so treated ; two years, 33 per 100 ; five years or more with others (Pasteur). The production of this immunised medium is not easily explained. Desiccation does not seem to act altogether as a diminisher of the