566 RHEUMATISM—RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS ditions of the mouth in the production of disease has been insisted on by Hunter and others, and it is possible that oral sepsis may not be without importance in this connection. In one acute case in a girl of twenty recently under the writer's observation the gums and buccal mucous membrane were in a highly septic condition. The clinical characters of the acute cases are as follows :— The onset is sudden, or at least definite—the patient can give a precise account of the beginning of the illness. There is decided fever, the temperature rising to 101°, 102°, or even higher each night. The affected joints are painful, tender, and swelled—there is effusion of fluid into them. So far the resemblance to acute rheumatism is close, but the following points will help to distinguish this affection. The joints affected are usually the smaller joints, and there is not the same tendency to migration which is characteristic of the arthritis of true rheumatism. The joints attacked do not return to the normal, but further changes develop in them, and the spindle-shaped swell- ing of the finger joints already described quickly appears. The following case is a characteristic example of this affection : — Woman. Aged twenty-six. Married. One child. Previous health good, but for six months before present illness the patient had repeated attacks of tonsillitis with " gatherings " on the tonsil. She was suddenly attacked with joint pains, the finger joints and wrists were affected, and later the shoulder and knee. When admitted to hospital the proximal inter-phalangeal joints of the fingers were swelled, painful, and contained fluid. Tempera- ture 101°; pulse 90. There was a soft systolic bruit to be heard at the apex. The patient was treated by salicylates with little benefit, and the hands quickly showed characteristic changes, such as are described above, and illustrated in Fig. 1. She left the hospital after six weeks' stay with these changes distinctly present in the hands and wrists, with no evening temperature, and with the cardiac bruit still audible; pulse 80. There was no history of a previous attack of acute rheumatism in this case. 2. Localised, Senile, or Monarticular Arthritis In this variety of joint affection there are clinical points which mark it off in a striking way from the other varieties which have been described. So decided are the differences, indeed, that they are more evident than the points of likeness. The disease is essentially a local affection, has little tendency to symmetrical arrangement, and none to become generalised. It attacks those in late middle life or in old age. There is no pyrexia or evidence of constitutional dis- turbance. It frequently follows upon injury, and is more common in men than in women. The larger joints near the trunk, the hip, and the shoulder especially, are most apt to suffer— a fact which contrasts sharply with the localisa- tion of the generalised polyarticular form, in which the small peripheral joints, more particu- larly those of the hands, are attacked with a frequency so great as to constitute a diagnostic feature. The affection is usually localised in one joint, but occasionally the corresponding joint on the opposite side may be affected in a lesser degree. When the hip is the joint affected there is pain, stiffness, and limitation of movement. The patient walks lame, and finds it difficult or impossible to cross one leg over the other. The amount of actual change in the joint detected by examination varies. In muscular or fat subjects the hand may detect little, but limitation of movements and possibly some deep-seated grating, or shortening and eversion of the limb may be made out. In thin subjects definite changes in the anatomical outline of the joint can usually be felt, with irregularities due to bony changes, the " condyloid crests " of Hutchinson. In the neighbourhood of such joints, as also in connection with Charcot's disease, the cysts described by Morant Baker may be present. In the case of the shoulder, where the joint is more within reach of examination, changes in the articiilar surfaces can often be readily made out. It is not certain whether the enlargement of the normal prominences on both sides of the terminal phalanges of the fingers on their dorsal surface, called Heberden's nodes, should be described in this place. If they are to be included at all among the manifestations of rheumatoid arthritis, it seems suitable that they should rank with the most chronic forms in- cluded under this group. They occur alone, or in association with the monarticular or very chronic generalised forms, rather than with the more acute disease, and may be conspicuously absent when the other finger joints show de- cided spindle-shaped swelling. There is seldom much pain, but tlie joint may be stiff and the disfigui"ement considerable. Deflexion of the terminal phalanx to the radial side is a common deformity. Great difference of opinion has existed among authors as to the pathology of these little growths, which have been variously regarded as of a gouty nature, or as due to rheu- matoid arthritis. They certainly occur in the chronic forms of rheumatoid artin-itis, and have been found also where there is a gouty history.