PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 43 and drawn freely outwards, the bronchial sound at once stops and the vesicular sound becomes lower and less distinct. The cause of the vesicular sound is not so satisfactorily explained. It is in part due to propagation of the bronchial sound, altered by passing through vesicular tissue; but it is also probably due to the expansion and contraction of the air vesicles drawing in and expelling air, either through their somewhat narrow openings into the infundibula, or through the narrow opening of the infundibula into the bronchioles. The reason why the sound is best heard during inspiration may be that the sound is best condvicted in the direction of the air stream (Fig. 142). V. Rhythm of Respiration. — These move- ments of respiration are carried on in a regular rhythmic manner. Their rate varies with many factors ; but the average number of respirations per minute in the adult male is about sixteen, or about one to every four or five beats of the heart. The rate of respirations may be modiiied by the will, and therefore, in counting the respirations in a patient, it is well to prevent his being aware of what is being done. Simi- larly, on account of this influence of the upper part of the brain, the respirations should not be counted while the patient is excited or nervous. The most important factor modifying the rate of respiration is the age of the individual. The following table gives the average rate at different ages:— Under 1 year . . 44 ,, 5 years . . 26 „ 20 „ . . 19 Adult .... 16 The other modifications in the rate of breath- ing will be better understood after studying the nervous mechanism of respiration. In these respiratory movements the phase of inspiration bears a certain proportion to that of expiration. Inspiration is much more rapid than expiration (see Fig. 149). As soon as in- spiration is completed, a reverse movement occurs, which is at first rapid, but gradually becomes slower, and may be followed by a pause, during which the chest remains in the collapsed condition. The existence and duration of this pause varies much, and it may really be con- sidered as the terminal period of expiration. Considering it in this light, we may say that inspiration is to expiration as 6 is to 7. VI. Controlling Mechanism of Respiration.— The rhythmic movements of respiration require the harmonious action of a number of muscles, and this is directed by the nervous system. The diaphragm is supplied by the phrenic nerves rising from the third and fourth, and partly from the fifth cervical nerves. The in- tercostals are supplied by branches from their corresponding dorsal nerves. If the spinal cord be cut below the fifth cervical nerve the intercostal muscles cease to act. If the section is made above the third cervical nerve, the diaphragm, too, is paralysed, and the animal dies of suffocation. Respiratory Centre. — Obviously, then, there is some nervous mechanism above the spinal cord presiding over these muscles. Removal of the brain above the medulla oblongata does not stop the respiratory rhythm. The mechanism must, therefore, be situated in the medulla oblongata. If the medulla is split into two by an incision down the middle line, respiration continues, but the two sides do not always act at the same i-ate. The mechanism, then, is bilateral, but normally the two parts are connected, and thus act together. Destruction of the part of the medulla lying near the root of the vagus arrests respiration, and it may therefore be concluded that the nervous mechanism presiding over this act is situated there. It must not be imagined that this centre sends fibres directly to the miiscles concerned in respiration. The nerves passing to these come from the cells in the grey matter of the spinal cord, and it is by influencing the activity of these cells that the respiratory centre controls the act of respiration. Since expiration, when forced, is a complex muscular act, it is reasonable to suppose that the respiratory centre contains two parts—one presiding over inspiration, one presiding over expiration. While the inspiratory centre is constantly in rhythmic action, the expiratory centre is only occasionally at work. Mode of Action of the Respiratory Centre.— Both parts of the respiratory centre are imder the control of higher nerve centimes, and through these they may be thrown into action at any time, or even prevented from acting for the space of a minute or so. But, after the lapse of this period, the respiratory mechanism proceeds to act in spite of the most powerful attempts to prevent it. The activity of the centre is chiefly regulated by the amount of CO^, in the blood going to it, and everything which leads to an increase in the C0.2 increases the activity of respiration. So perfect is this mechanism that the percentage of CO2 in the air in the lungs is kept very constant in different conditions. This is probably the explanation of a peculiar type of breathing, known as Cheyne-Stokes breathing, which sometimes occurs in heart disease and in other conditions, when the patient stops breathing for a time, then begins to breathe first quietly, then more forcibly, and after several respirations again with decreasing depth till the respirations stop. In these cases the respiratory centre is less excitable than usual, and is called into action only when COg