218 POST-MORTEM METHODS separates. Filter hot through special agar filter-paper or through pure cotton-wool or " glass" wool. The former gives the better result, and use of a hot water jacketed filter renders the operation easier. Tubes may be filled and plugged at once, or the prepared agar kept in a plugged glass flask, the plug being covered with tin-foil. Tubes and flask are sterilised as in the case of the broth. During cooling the tubes are inclined so that the agar solidifies with a large surface. Water of condensation collects in the bottom of the tube. Glucose agar is made by adding 1 to 3 per cent of glucose to agar. The tubes are half- filled, and allowed to cool in the erect position. Peptone gelatine, or simply " Gelatine." Finest gold medal gelatine, 100 grammes. Beef-broth, 1 litre. Dissolve with gentle heat—preferably in a flask in the steamer, neutralise if necessary, clarify and filter. Fill tubes one-third full, and allow to solidify in the erect position. The manufacture of the media, particularly of agar, presents certain difficulties, and if they be only occasionally required it is better to pur- chase them in tubes ready for use from scientific instrument dealers. Blood serum can be very readily and easily prepared by any practitioner, and is useful for many purposes. The blood may be human or from the lower animals (cow or sheep). Sufficient blood may be expressed from a placenta to make two or three tubes. With precautions as to cleanliness placental blood, or blood of the cow or sheep, is collected in a small beaker or flask, and after the clot contracts— say in ten hours—the serum is pipetted off" into sterile tubes. These are plugged and supported in the steamer in an inclined position. The heat is applied very slowly, and not allowed to reach boiling-point, but only about 80° C, so as to coagulate the serum firmly. This requires one and a half to two hours. The tubes are then sterilised for half an liour on three successive days. The writer has found this method of preparation quite satisfactory, and the resultant solidified serum, though nearly opaque, gives quite as good cultural results as that prepared by other methods, and, moreover, no special apparatus is required. Loeffle7-'s blood serum, on which the diphtheria bacillus grows best, is prepared by adding two parts of separate blood serum to one part of beef-broth, to which 1 per cent glucose has been added. This is solidified as before. For the preparation of other media the reader is referred to any textbook of bacteriology. Employment of these Media Agar {or Blood Serum).—Take three sloped tubes. Singe off the top of the wool plug, passing the lip of the tube through the flame. If the water of condensation be excessive remove the plug and pour it off". To inoculate, take a loopful of the material with the sterilised and cooled platinum needle, and holding a tube horizontal, remove the plug by grasping it with the flexed, right, little finger, then passing in the platinum needle, avoiding contact with the walls of the tube, mix up the material with the fluid still remaining at the bottom of the tube. Then draw the loop gently back and forwards over the surface of the medium in a zigzag manner, so as to pass once over most of the surface. Replace the plug, and without recharging the needle repeat this process with the second and third tubes. In the second and third tubes the numbers of organisms ought to be so attenuated that separate colonies will develop on incubating at 37° C. for twenty-four hours. For this, an "incubator," in which the temperature is kept at a uniform temperature of 35° to 37° C, or 98° to 99° F., by means of a suitable regulating apparatus, should be employed, and is essential for reliable work, though some cultures will develop at room temperature or by placing on a mantel-shelf above a fire. Portions of separate colonies thus- obtained are to be picked out with the straight needle, and examined by "film" methods (p. 214). Gelatine.—This medium may be used in the same way as agar, and incubated at room temperature, that is, from 18° to 22° C. It is more often used to test colonies which have been separated on agar or serum. Pick out a little from the centre of a colony with the straight sterilised needle, stab this down through the centre of the solid gelatine, and incubate at room temperature. Some organisms cause liquefaction of the gelatine by a peptonising action, e.g. staphy- lococci, anthrax, cholera; others grow in a characteristic manner, forming a heaped-up mass on the surface (Friedlander's diplo- bacillus), or sending out lateral processes into- the medium (anthrax), or otherwise producing a characteristic appearance. Glucose Agar.—The tube should be one-half full oi freshly prepared glucose agar. This medium may be used in attempting to separate anaerobic organisms, other methods being too complicated for performance by any but skilled bacteriologists. With a long, straight, sterilised platinum needle take a quantity of the discharge or fluid to be examined, and pass the needle deep inta the medium. Replace the plug and cover with a tightly fitting rubber cap. Repeat the process in two other tubes. Incubate at 37° C. for forty-eight hours; then examine the growth which develops by the film method. If organisms containing spores be found, place the tubes in water kept