PURPURA 440 membered that this classification is the outcome of purely bedside study. These forms may prove to be degrees or varieties of one disease, or they may be shown to be as distinct one from another as typhoid from typhus. To decide the question of their relationship there is needed a far deeper knowledge of their bacterial and chemical conditions than we now possess. It will be noted that these five forms have many important points in common, each one, however, possessing some characteristic feature. In (1) simple purpura the htemorrhagic ten- dency is almost confined to the skin, and the illness is mild and ends in recovery. In (2) Werlhof's purpura all mucous membranes and many viscera share in the tendency, and the illness becomes more severe, is often of longer duration, and may end fatally. In (3) arthritic purpura, joint-pains are added to the hsemor- rhagic element, and a proneness to recurrence becomes a prominent feature. In (4) Henoch's purpura severe colic and visceral haemorrhage are additional symptoms. In (5) febrile pur- pura we have a well-defined severe disease approaching closely in type to a specific fever such as smallpox, with pyrexia and a tendency to necrosis of certain tissues. It is true that examples may be picked out from these various forms which, placed side by side, will present strongly differentiating features. But it is equally true that, if a large series of cases is studied, instances are met with which seem to lie as links between them. At any rate, on the ground of clinical affinity, we are justified in looking upon simple purpura and Werlhof's purpura on the one hand, and arthritic and Henoch's purpura on the other hand, as forming two large groups, while the febrile form lies somewhat apart from them both. As regards their causation there is abundant room for speculation. Nothing certain is known, but their close analogy with such in- stances as iodic purpura (toxic) and diphtherial purpura (infectious) compels us to regard them as coming under one or other of these two heads. Febrile purpura bears such a close resemblance to a specific fever that many attempts have been made to prove its bacterial origin. Their failure need not militate against the view. Bacteria of many kinds have been found in the blood and tissues, but the observations are vitiated by the fact that they were made some time after death. Their importance is not necessarily increased by the fact that the in- jection of cultures of these organisms has pro- duced hsemorrhagic septicaemia in animals. Among these microbes are streptococcus, staphy- lococcus, a capsulated bacillus belonging to the colon group, and other bacilli not classified. The blood, if taken direct from a vein during life, is generally sterile. Both streptococcus and staphylococcus have, however, been grown from it; but, considering the common existence of a sloughing process in the mouth or throat or elsewhere in these cases, their presence cannot be regarded as necessarily meaning more than the supervention of a septicsemia. The common failure to find micro-organisms in the blood is not surprising, if we consider that the specific organism of so many of the recognised specific fevers is still unknown. A. Symptomatic Purpura Excluding hsemophilia, the conditions of which purpura is a frequent or occasional symptom may be grouped in four classes. For the most part the form of haemorrhage is the petechial eruption. (1) Infectious.—Nearly all the specific fevers may be attended by a purpuric eruption, especi- ally smallpox, diphtheria, measles, scarlet fever, and cerebro-spinal fever. Such an eruption betokens unusual severity in the disease. In typhus the rash is always of this nature. In typhoid fever petechiae and vibices have been rarely seen. Petechiae are not uncommon in yellow fever and in plague. They occur in malignant endocarditis, pyaemia, and septicsemia; more rarely in syphilis, gonorrhoea, malaria, pneumonia, and erysipelas. (2) Toxic.—Snake-poison produces large ex- travasations of blood into the skin, as well as haemorrhage from mucous surfaces. A copious petechial eruption may follow the use of diph- theria antitoxin A large number of drugs can produce petechiae. Phosphorus, iodide of potassium, chloral, arsenic, quinine, mercury, salicylic acid, copaiba, ergot, belladonna, anti- pyrin, and opium and its alkaloids, may be included under this head. In phosphorus- poisoning haemorrhage often occurs into the skin as well as from mucous surfaces. Iodide of potassiimi will produce in a few exceptional individuals an attack which closely resembles purpura simplex. As regards the other drugs enumerated such an effect is exceedingly rare. Petechiae are also not uncommon in certain ill- defined states of poisoning, such as arise in nephritis, cirrhosis of the liver, and malignant jaundice. (3) Cachectic.—A purpuric eruption is occa- sionally met with in cases of generalised sarcoma. A few petechiae are not uncommonly seen on the lower extremities in cases of advanced phthisis or carcinoma, and in fact occasionally j ust before death from any form of long-standing disease. They may appear also in extreme old age. They are common in leucocythaemia, pernicious anaemia, and lymphadenoma. In scurvy and in scurvy-rickets, petechiae, ecchy- moses, and large subcutaneous extravasations of blood are common phenomena. (4) JVervous.—Petechiae occasionally occur in locomotor ataxy, especially in association with