430 PULSE, THE But in those cases which progress steadily to a fatal issue there is a type of pulse-tracing to be obtained which is highly characteristic. The pulse is exceedingly rapid, irom 140 to 160, and the respirations are about 70 or 80 per the dicrotic wave indication that the to a dangerously Fig. 128.—Typical pulse of broncho-pneiimoiiia in the early stages of the disease (child set. 7 years). Indicates lower bloud-pressure than that of tiie croupous variety. minute. The pulse-waves are of various shapes, and show varying degrees of pressure, but the most important feature is the more or less complete disappearance of (Fig. 129). This is a sure blood pressure has fallen low point. Fatal indications are afforded by this type of sphygmogram, especially if it be obtained in the early stages of the disease, and if it persists for several days. On several occasions this pulse feature has been observed in the broncho- pneumonic attacks of children at the height of the disease, but it was then quite a transient condition. Sometimes, however, this kind of pulse is found at a time when the child is apparently not very ill, and it persists day after day. The writer has never known broncho-pneumonia a pulse-tracing showing these characters is often seen. Very similar tracings are obtained in cases of late mitral stenosis (Fig. 131), and also in children dying from auto-intoxication from the intestinal canal. There is a persist- ent tendency to failure of the blood-pressure in severe attacks of pneumonia in child- ren. In the catarrhal variety this is especi- ally the case, and if the fall is not arrested very grave symptoms result. In these cases the great loweinng of the blood pressure seems to be primarily due to an intense relaxation of the blood-vessels all over the body. The general vaso-motor tone seems to be entirely lost. This may possibly be due to a special l''IG. 129.- -Pulse in broncho-pneumonia of fatal signiftcauce if it persists for several days (child IJ years old). recovery to take place under such circumstances. On one occasion the fatal event was predicted a fortnight before its occurrence, at a time when the child seemed to be in a fairly satis- factory condition, to judge from other symptoms. Therefore these sphygmographic appearances of the pulse in broncho-pneumonia are of great significance in prognosis, and this particular form of pulse-tracing may fairly be regarded as a type which experience has proved to be of decidedly bad omen. One other point about this pulse is that the systolic wave may be either pointed or rounded, and the sharper the apex of the tracing the better the prognosis. The worst possible type of curve is that in which there is a blunt-pointed apex and a wave of very small amplitude. The pulse- curves are also of unequal size (Fig. 130). These are indications that the heart-muscle is failing, and probably that dilatation of the organ is commencing. Shortly before death in Fig. 130.—The worst type of pulse in pneumonia; pulse-curves of unequal size with blunt apices (child ret. 9 years). toxin. The condition of the circulation seems to be somewhat similar to that found in a well- marked case of exophthalmic goitre, or the same state might be produced by great overdosing with thyroidin. In cases of severe broncho- pneumonia in children the myocardium may suffer, partly from insufficient nutrition, owing to inadequate blood-supply through the cor- onary arteries, consequent upon the lowered blood pressure; and if we could counteract this extreme relaxation of the blood-vessels we should be fulfilling one of the first indica- tions of rational treatment. In this connection suprarenal extract may possibly be worthy of a trial, and a sterilised decoction of the medulla of the gland might be injected into a superficial vein by means of a hypodermic syringe. Or adrenalin might be Fig. 131.- -Same type of pulse as that of fatal pneumonia, from a case of late mitral stenosis. used. These cases are so fatal in young children, and chiefly so from cardiac failure, that one would gladly welcome any new measure which could be adopted with a fair prospect of success. Venous and Liver Pulsations Until within recent years our knowledge of these forms of pulsation has been of the most