RHEUMATISM, ACUTE 548 ture falls, but the severe rheumatic affections, such as pericarditis and endocarditis, do not seem to respond in the same striking manner, and nodules may increase in size and number while full doses are being taken. Many believe the action of these salicylates is specific, but it appears certain that in severe rheumatic pericarditis this specific action cannot be clearly recognised when doses are given within the the limits of safety. They may be used to arrest a threatened attack of rheumatic fever, to control the de- veloped disease, and to prevent relapses. It is in the earlier stages, before definite arthritis or endocarditis has developed, that we should be led to expect the best results from their use, but it is diflicult to feel sure at such an early stage that the attack would have developed into the pronounced disease. There is, nevertheless, in this early stage good reason to suppose that they are of value. When the disease has fully developed, it is generally agreed that the drugs should be pushed in full doses for a short time to get the patient rapidly under their influence. Some authorities, having achieved this object, stop them abruptly ; others gradually diminish the dose and increase the intervals between them. The latter course appears to be the more satisfactory. If, then, we suppose a strong adult suffering from an acute attack of arthritic rheumatism, the bowels should be opened by an aperient, and twenty-grain doses of salicylate of soda be given every two hours until the temperature falls and the pain is relieved, then the interval be increased to every four hours, and later the dose gradually diminished. When the temperature and arthritis have been subdued for about ten days salicylate of quinine can be given, and finally quinine in an effervescing alkaline draught be substituted. Unfortunately there are some difficidt questions that must be faced in the use of this method. The salicylates have been widely looked upon as depressant to the heart, and their efficacy in rheumatic carditis doubted. Should we, then, adopt this treatment in preference to others, when there is pericarditis or other clear indications of active and severe heart disease"? It is, indeed, a momentous question, and oije which, in the face of the antagonistic views of physicians of wide experi- ence, may well be answered with hesitation. Further, it must be allowed that the quality of these drugs has been improved of recent years, and that, as Dr. D. B. Lees has pointed out, some part of the depressant action which has been ascribed to them is really the result of the rheumatic poison upon the heart wall. But until more convincing evidence has been given of the specific action of these drugs in rheumatic carditis, it is, I believe, safer not to push them when there is active heart disease. but if there be distress from a coincident arthritis, to use them then in moderate doses to control the pain. Another answer to the objection that they are depressant, may be that though this is true of their action upon the normal heart, such is not the case when the heart is affected by rheumatic fever, because their action is specific. It is difficult to answer this con- tention, for both the action of the disease and of the drugs—if they are depressant—tend to cause cardiac failure. Those, then, who favour their use are apt to ascribe acute cardiac failure to the disease, those who hold them to be depressant will attribute it to the drugs. It appears to me that they are depressant to the heart in active rheumatic affections, as they are to the healthy heart, and that their use in full doses in acute carditis is hazardous. Pallor of the face, dangerous vomiting, air hunger, and rapid cardiac failure are symptoms which, if they develop acutely in a case of rheumatic carditis treated by this method, wovild suggest to me the toxic effects of the drug rather than of the disease. Those cases in which there is obstinate relapsing rheumatism of the joints are often benefited by the prolonged use of moderate doses of salicylates. The particular preparation that will be given in any case differs with the practice of the individual prescriber. The most effectual, though more expensive drug, is the natural salt. A milder preparation, useful for delicate persons and children, is salicin, but a good sample of salicylate of soda will, in most cases, answer every purpose, and the taste is well covered by spirits of chloroform and tincture of cardamoms. There are exceptional cases in which moderate doses will cause delirium, deafness, and vertigo. A comparatively new preparation, aqetyl-salicylic acid, or aspirin, has come into use, and is claimed to stimulate the heart and to avoid any nervous symptoms. It has yet to stand the test of experience. The drug may be prescribed with syrup of lemons in doses from 5 to 20 grains. Before the treatment with salicylates was generally adopted, large doses of alkalies were believed to be of value, and this method of treatment still retains to some extent the confidence of the profession. If they are not used alone they are often combined with the salts of salicylic acid. The citrates, bicarbon- ates, and acetates of potash are the most frequently administered, and when this method is pushed, half a drachm of bicarbonate of potash and the same of the citrate are given in an ounce of water, every four hours, until the urine is alkaline. When this has been done, the urine is kept slightly alkaline by gradually diminishing the amount of these drugs, and the treatment is persisted in until