197 POST-MORTEM METHODS exceeding six to nine square inches. Note the position and appearance of the colon and great omentum, the latter being greatly thickened and shortened in certain cases of tubercular peritonitis, and showing a varying amount of fat even in health. Then, raising the omentum, along with the transverse colon, over the costal margins, look for general or partial distension or contraction of the intestines, and if present find out whether the conditions have relation to a stricture or other obstruction—tumour or hernia—or be simply due to irregular peristalsis. Lymph, blood, pus, or fluid faeces may be present between the coils of intestine, the last indicating perforation of its walls. The coils of intestine near the gall-bladder usually show post-mortem staining with bile. Diverticula may be found in connection with the small intestine, for example Meckel's, con- nected to the ileum eighteen inches to three feet above the ileo-caecal valve. False diverticula are simply the exaggerated pouchings of the large intestine met with in cases of faecal loading. Peritonitis.—The only indications of periton- itis may be general congestion and dulling of the surface.—In hypostasis the posterior coils are congested, and the surface bright.—In peritonitis there is usually, however, a variable amount of lymph lying on the surface, or forming prismoidal collections between adjacent loops of intestine. The lymph may be simple, puriform, or may have organised, producing recent or old, general or localised, adhesions between coils of intestine, or between visceral and parietal peritoneum. The older these adhesions are the less easily are they broken down. In general tubercular peritonitis they contain small or large caseous nodules. Localised peritonitis may occur on the surfaces of the liver or spleen, round an appendicitis, or in the pelvis in the female. As a result of old peritonitis bands of fibrous tissue may pass from one part of the peritoneal surface to another, forming loops in which internal herniae may form. Int^issusception is a condition in which a portion of intestine is drawn downwards into another part, forming a firm, sausage-shaped mass which, if unrelieved, becomes gangrenous. The entering bowel becomes adherent by peri- tonitis to the orifice of the ensheathing bowel. " Agonal" intussusceptions are occasionally found in children. They are usually multiple, only occur in the small intestines, and are distinguished by the absence of inflammation, and by the fact that the entering bowel can be readily disengaged. Volvulus is a condition in which a sigmoid flexure with long meso-colon becomes twisted on itself, causing obstruction. In gangrene of the intestine—for example, in strangulated hernia—the bowel becomes dark, livid, or greenish brown, and dull on the surface. Note thickening, localised or diffixse, in the mesentery—the former due to enlarged glands, the latter to tuberculosis, sarcoma of glands, or mesenteric abscess. Before removing the abdominal organs it is well at this stage to open the thorax in order to examine the serovis cavities, and to make a general examination of the lungs and heart, particularly as to volume. If this be omitted the blood will drain away when the abdominal vessels are cut across, and the relationship of the thoracic organs will be disturbed. For directions refer to the method of opening the thorax described later {see p. 204). This being done, remove the abdominal viscera in the following order, which experience has shown to give the most satisfaction. Removal of Viscera.—In the first place remove the small intestine. Taking up a coil, separate, with a sharp knife, the mesentery at its attach- ment to the bowel, and continue this until the whole small intestine is free. Then cut it across between double ligatures placed at the upper end of the jejunum and three inches above the ileo-caecal valve. It may be examined at once. In miliary tuberculosis the serous surface presents numerous grey pin-head tubercles. These may be " general " throughout the peri- toneum, or localised to the base of ulcers of the Peyer's patches, which shine through the wall as dark purplish areas. They must not be confounded with miliary cancer nodules, which are usually larger, often bile-stained, and are usually surrounded by a narrow zone of con- gestion. Next, placing the intestine in a sink or large basin, remove the ligatures and flush it with a stream of cold water, and with the scissors, the blunt blade being inserted into the bowel, cut it open along the line of attachment of the mesentery. The Peyer's patches are thus uninjured, being placed opposite to that line. Examine the mucous membrane for conges- tions and haemorrhages, catarrhal enteritis, ulceration—typhoid, tubercular, or follicular— perforations, or for waxy degeneration in cases of chronic suppuration and phthisis pulmonalis. In catarrhal enteritis the mucous membrane is congested, especially over the valvulae con- niventes, thickened and covered with tenacious mucus. In typhoid ulceration the whole of the Peyer's patch is affected, hence the ulcer is usually longitudinal, with sharply cut, thin edges. The solitary glands are also affected. The floor of the ulcer is formed of the inner circular muscu- lar coat. In tuberculosis the ulcer in the Peyer's patch