322 PROSTATE GLAND be employed only when the bladder is free from cystitis and capable of distension. Much has been written on the relative ad- vantages of the perinseal, the suprapubic, and the combined methods. The first mentioned has the drawback of giving very little room, ■and the operation requires to be performed almost entirely in the dark ; but, on the other hand, it aflbids good drainage, it alone is applicable to cases of chronic cystitis with con- tracted bladder, and it is the most suitable operation when the patient is feeble and a pro- longed procedure is inadvisable. In those cases where the bladder can be well distended the suprapubic operation should be employed. It is a safe one, and should the surgeon fail to reach the growth from the front he may i-esort to the combined method. Open- ing the bladder in front, the interior of the viscus may be explored by the finger, and at the same time, using a forehead mirror, reflected light enables the parts to be cleai-ly seen, and admits of the operation being performed with precision and completeness. When the enlargement of the prostate is due to a passive hyperemia free suprapubic drainage alone gives marked relief; the functional activity of the bladder being placed in abeyance, the nutritive activity of the parts also becomes lessened, and marked diminution of the gland may result. (e) Simple tumours of the prostate are very rare. They include the myomata and adeno- mata. The former resemble in appearance hypertrophy of the gland, and differ in the circumstance that the growth is not limited to those of advanced years. The true adenomata of the prostate is encapsuled and occurs mostly in young men. (/) Malignant turnours of the prostate, " car- cinoma " and " sarcoma," affect the two extremes of life, childhood and old age. They as a rule appear before the seventh year or after the sixtieth year, but are very rare either as primary or as secondary formations. In childhood the disease is generally sarcomatous in its nature; its growth is visually very rapid, the course of the malady seldom extending over eight or nine months. The carcinomata, on the other hand, are more prevalent in old age. This lesion primarily attacks the glandular structures in one lobe, and from the original centre rapidly spreads until the whole gland is displaced by the morbid growth. It may then rupture the firm fibrous capsule of the prostate and invade the surrounding tissue. This is, however, seldom the case, as usually when left to nature the urinary symptoms are so severe that the patient succumbs before that stage is reached. The symptoms of malignant disease in children are so characteristic that there is little difficulty in distinguishing it from other maladies, but in the disease as it attacks the aged the inexperi- enced surgeon is apt to be misled. In children the marked feature is persistent and steadily increasing haematuria, the blood coming away most copiously at the end of micturition, often at first unassociated with pain, but as the dis- ease advances symptoms of diminished expulsive power combined with those of cystitis declare themselves. In the malignant disease of old age the early symptoms are so similar to those of ordinary hypertrophy that there is much danger of the rarer malady being mistaken for the commoner one. In malignant disease, how- ever, hsematuria and pain are early symptoms, and the latter is independent of obstruction to the escape of urine. The course of the disease is very rapid, and on rectal examination a hard nodulated mass, which is very tender to the touch, can be detected. Soon the tumour softens and fungates, the urine presents a peculiar, disagreeable odour and becomes septic. Acute cystitis is set up, haemorrhages are more frequent and more profuse, the symptoms of obstruction rapidly develop, the sufferings of the patient are intensified day by day, anaemia and emaciation become marked, and the patient gradually sinks from exhaustion or dies from toxic poisoning. Treatment is only palliative; to remove the tumour with success is practically impossible. The administration of opiates in some form, and suprapubic drainage give relief to pain and prolong life. The suprapubic operation is best performed in two stages. The bladder being first stitched to the abdominal wall, and a few days later, when adhesions have formed, the viscus can be opened and a tube inserted. Catheterism gives rise to great suffering and much bleeding. {g) Tuberculosis of the prostate is secondary always to similar diseases of other parts of the urinary tract, the kidneys, the bladder, or the vesiculae seminales being primarily affected; or it may be due to an infected thrombosis from tuberculous disease of the lungs, of the joints, or of bones. The disease is met with most commonly in early adult life; the morbid pro- cess in the prostate being similar to tubercu- losis elsewhere. To begin with, the tuberculous infiltration involves one lobe only, and for some time may not produce any very noticeable en- largement, but as the disease extends inflam- matory oedema sets in and causes an increase in the swelling. The infiltration is followed by caseous necrosis, which gradually extends to- wards the mucous membrane of the bladder or bowel. The mass breaks down, the deep, ex- cavated ulcers form, and perforation takes place into the bladder or bowel, or into the ischio- rectal fossa or the peritoneal cavity. These ulcers act as centres of septic infection and rapidly lead to a fatal termination. The symp- toms during the early stage are not chai-acter- istic, especially when the disease attacks the peripheral parts of the gland. Indeed, the onset of the disease is liable to be overlooked,