OPTIC NERVE 523 EETINA AND the degree in which the choroidal tissues have participated in the pathological change. Pig- ment so disturbed may be visible as a diffuse, coai'se peppering over the red fundus-refles, or it may be collected in larger masses of various forms over the denuded area, or again aggre- gated in the form of a fairly regular ring sur- rounding the affected patch. Such pigmentary changes are usually rightly considered along with their associated choroidal diseases, but one particular form (retinitis pigmentosa) will re- ceive our attention in this article when we come to consider atrophic changes in the retina. Occasionally, in persons beyond middle life, we see numerous round, yellowish-white, trans- lucent spots of small size, bordered with pig- ment. They may be found in any part of the fundus, but are particularly common in the macular region and in the extreme periphery. They are due to the presence of small colloid bodies projecting into the retina, probably derived from the cells of the pigment-epithelium, and associated with an altered nutrition of this layer. When near the fovea they cause some disturbance of vision, but are not otherwise of clinical importance. Apart from circulatory and pigmentary changes, we may recognise retinal affections by an interference with the normal transparency of the retina. Thus we may have diffuse haze from oedema, red patches from haemorrhages, black deposits of pigment, or opaque white areas from exudation or from fatty changes. Again, the retina may be visibly raised from its normal position in the fundus as the result of an exuda- tion or solid growth. HEMORRHAGES may occur in the retina at any part of the fundus, and are readily recog- nised, when recent, from their bright red colour. There may be only one, or they may be practically countless; and they may vary in size from a just visible spot or streak to a patch much larger than the optic disc. They are most common near the large vessels in the nerve-fibre layer, and then have a striated or flame-shaped appearance from the extravasated blood having passed between and run along the nerve-fibre bundles. Sometimes they occur from the fine vessels in the inner nuclear layer, and are then usually small and rounded in form. Occasionally a very large, sharply defined haemor- rhage is found covering the macula ; in this case the extravasation is more or less rounded, sometimes with a flat upper edge, and is situated between the hyaloid and internal limiting membranes. A large haemorrhage often bursts through the hyaloid membrane into the vitreous, or sometimes passes back- wards and causes detachment of the retina. Haemorrhages interfere with sight according to their size and position; those mentioned as occurring at the macula necessarily cause loss of central vision, though in this case the prog- nosis is good. Very commonly their presence is of less visual importance, in so far as sight has been already impaired by the disease of the optic nerve or retina, of which the haemorrhages are merely a result. Absorption takes place gradually, its rapidity being greatest in htemor- rhages of small size and in those unassociated with disease of the blood-vessels. There is often no trace ultimately left, or there may be a dark pigmentation or brilliant yellowish-white spots marking their former position. Causes.—Haemorrhages may be part of an inflammation of the retina or optic nerve, or they may be dependent directly on general con- ditions, or on retinal disease consequent on general conditions. The extravasation may be due to rupture of vessels or to diapedesis from a vein. The following statement will serve to show the possible manner of their occurrence :— A. Rupture of vessels from— (1) Increased intravascular pressu7'e, local or general, (a) Local, e.g., from contusion of the eyeball, or from great venous distension, as in venous thrombosis or other manner of interfer- ence with venous return. (6) General, as from cough, or other violent effort, and perhaps from high arterial tension, with or without hyper- trophy of the left ventricle. (2) Sudden diminution of the vitreous support, as in wound of the globe. (3) Weakness of a degenerated vascidar wall, as in sclerosis and miliary aneurysms of the retinal vessels, sometimes in embolism or throm- bosis of the small arteries. Such vascular changes are usually concomitants of some general affection, such as cardiac or renal dis- ease, or diabetes. B. Diapedesis may be the result of— (1) Increased Intravenous Pressure.—This is not always a direct effect; indeed, the retinal veins, on account of their capacity for becoming dilated and stretched, may resist for a long time. But this disturbance and slowing of venous flow leads to an oedema of the corresponding retinal area ; and as the walls of the vessels in this area suffer in consequence (along with the other retinal tissues), they undergo degenerative changes, leading finally to diminished resistance to the passage of the red blood-cells through them. Haemorrhages occurring in this way often remain near the vein from which the blood has escaped, but not invariably so. Not infre- quently, when the veins are engorged and the retina oedematous, one or more haemorrhages are seen lying alongside the corresponding artery. This position, however, is no evidence of the blood being arterial in origin ; it is more prob- able that it passes from the vein slowly along between the nerve-fibres, where there is least resistance, until it meets the obstruction caused by the body of the artery, and then spreads along its side.