159 PNEUMONIA—BACTERIOLOGICAL SECTION these extremes pneumococci of all degrees of virulence may be met, so that the possibilities of variation in the leisons produced by this cause alone are obviously considerable. Of course if the resistance of the animal is increased the effects are similar to those due to attenua- tion of the virus. Thus a rabbit which has received a subcutaneous inoculation of virulent pneumococci usually dies in about forty-eight hours of an acute septicsemia. In such cases the local inflammatory reaction at the site of inoculation is always slight, but the blood is found to be swarming with enormous numbers of capsulated pneumococci. If, however, a rabbit which has been partially immunised re- ceives a similar injection, or if a somewhat less virulent organism is employed, the animal may live for a week before it succumbs to the in- fection. Here the local reaction is more intense, so that at the site of inoculation the tissues show an extensive area of inflammatory oedema, haemorrhage, and frequently also necrosis. The fluids at the local site are crowded with pneumo- cocci, but the blood may contain few or none, or may show the results of a septicfemia which has immediately preceded death. A third and entirely different result may be obtained if the rabbit be still more highly immunised, or if the pneumococci be still more attenuated. In such conditions a local focus of suppuration forms at the site of inoculation, and the animal usually recovers. Hence in the same species of animal, the rabbit, by suitable modifications of its powers of resistance or of the virulence of the pneumococci, subcutaneous inoculations may result in such divergent lesions as (a) sua acute septicsemia with a negligible local reaction, (b) an intense local cellulitis, oedema, and necrosis with little tendency to septicaemia, and (c) a localised abscess of varying size. (2) When the susceptibilities of diff'erent orders of animals are also considered, the interpreta- tion of the pathogenic effects of the pneumo- coccus becomes still more complicated. Among the most susceptible are mice and rabbits, and these animals when inoculated beneath the skin, in the peritoneal sac, or in the lung, with virulent pneumococci, almost invariably die of an acute septicsemia with little or no local re- action. Less susceptible are guinea-pigs, sheep, and dogs, in which animals subcutaneous in- oculation results in an extensive local cellulitis and oedema which does not invariably lead to a fatal result. If, however, in a partially im- munised rabbit, or in the more immune animals, such as the sheep or the dog, the injection of pneumococci be not subcutaneous, but intra- pulmonary, then again an intense local inflam- mation ensues at the site of inoculation, which in this case is the lung, and an acute fibrinous pneumonia and pleurisy result. " When a dose of pneumococci sufficient to kill a rabbit is injected subcutaneously in the human subject. it gives rise to a local inflammatory swelling with redness and slight rise of temperature, all of which pass off' in a few days. It is therefore justifiable to suppose that man occupies an intermediate place in the scale of susceptibility, probably between the dog and the sheep, and that when the pneumococcus gains an entrance to his lungs the local reaction in the form of pneumonia occurs" (Muir and Ritchie). Intoxication and hnmunity.—It is a note- worthy fact that few cases of pneumonia succumb to asphyxia, so that the extent of lung involved is not in most instances the direct cause of death. What is probably of more effect in determining a fatal issue is the degree of nervous prostration, and especially of cardiac failure. After death, in addition to the pulmonary lesion there is invariably evidence in the condition of the heart, spleen, kidneys, and other viscera, that the patient has suffered from the effects of an acute general intoxication. During life, moreover, many of the more urgent symp- toms are referable to such a condition. It rarely happens that any general invasion of the blood by pneumococci occurs except just before death. It is therefore more than probable that pneumococci which invade the lung and there produce an acute local inflammation, also elaborate some diffusible toxic substance which, absorbed into the blood-stream, gives rise to the general toxsemia of an acute pneumonia. The nature of these toxic bodies is not definitely known, but, without going into details, one may say that all experimental work on the subject supports this view of their existence and highly poisonous nature. Artificial immunisation of susceptible animals has also been effected by various observers, including G. and F. Klemperer and Washbourn. Moreover, it was found that the blood serum of animals artificially immunised was itself pro- tective, in other words, that a true antitoxin was produced. It is supposed that the crisis so typical of the recovery from an acute lobar pneumonia occurs only when the antitoxin has been developed in such abundance as completely to neutralise the toxin. In this relation two facts are of significance as supporting the view that the pneumococcus is the essential cause of acute lobar pneumonia. (1) The serum of patients who have recovered from such an attack is to some extent protective against the results of artificial inoculation with the pneumo- coccus. (2) The serum of an animal artificially immunised by injection of cultures of pneumo- cocci has a beneficial action in cases of acute lobar pneumonia. Distribution of the Pneumococcus in Health and in Disease.—Reference has already been made to the fact that the saliva of healthy persons injected into a rabbit may produce a fatal septicsemia, due to the presence of pneumo- cocci. The existence of virulent pneumococci