178 PNEUMONIA—CLINICAL SECTION treacherous way to the fatal end. During the "age of decline," as Jiirgensen observes, pneu- monia is one of the most dangerous diseases. The greater the wear and tear of the body (he adds) the more fatal the disease becomes. At the Greifswald Policlinic in ten years there were 941 cases of pneumonia with 102 deaths (= lO'B per cent). From 40 to 50 years of age the mortality was 9-5 per cent, from 50 to 60 years, 20"0 per cent, from 60 to 70 years, 37'5 percent. If we inquire more closely how death is brought about in pneumonic fever, we must agree with Jiirgensen when he says : " It is the heart, and always the heart, upon which the burden is ultimately thrown " ; and again : " The danger in croupous pneumonia threatens principally the heart of the patient. Death results from insufficiency of the heart." If this proposition be accepted as proved, we see why old people so readily succumb to this disease. The muscle of their heart is either wasted (simple atrophy), or it is fattily degenerated or infiltrated with fat, and so when the added strain of a continued fever and of a sudden extreme impediment in the lesser circulation is put upon it, the heart fails and death results. Hence the necessity for daily, even hourly, observations on the heart's action and pulse during a pneumonia. The quality of the pulse as regards strength and volume and tension is of more importance than its mere frequency, and this applies to the cardiac impulse also. Undue rapidity of the heart and pulse-beat is unfavourable; still more so is any irregularity in volume or rhythm of the arterial throb, or an intermission in the beat. It is to be re- membered that in acute pneumonia the normal ratio between the pulse and respirations is disturbed. That ratio in health is 4 to 1, perhaps more strictly 9 to 2. In pneumonia it may become only 3 to 1, or perhaps only 2 to 1. "In severe cases the frequency of the respiration approaches that of the pulse ; the former may equal, and even exceed, the latter." These are Jurgensen's words, and he adds: " Such cases, however, are very rare, but I have met with them, especially when the arteries were in a high degree atheromatous." This disproportion between the pulse-rate and the respiration is diagnostic of pneumonia, for it fails to present itself in any other febrile disease except, perhaps, cerebro-spinal meningitis in its earlier stage. Physical Signs In 1896 Dr. Richard H. Kennan drew atten- tion to the myotatic irritability of the pectoral muscles observed in acute croupous pneumonia, and expressed the opinion that the condition was a valuable early diagnostic sign of the disease—the more so as the myoidema is con- fined to the affected side. The writer has had many opportunities of confirming Dr. Kennan's observation, and can testify to the value of the sign. To elicit the sign Dr. Kennan recom- mends that a finger of the left hand should be placed flat upon the chest in the direction of the course of the fibres of the pectoralis major. The pleximeter thus formed should be sharply percussed by the middle finger of the right hand, used as a plessor, when a rapid contraction im- mediately succeeding will be felt in the muscle under the finger of the left hand. Dr. Kennan claims for this sign that it may precede the earliest inspiratory crepitations of pneumonia. It will be convenient to analyse the physical signs which show themselves in the several stages through which the disease usually passes, namely—the stage of fluxion, or the preliminary stage described by William Stokes, the stage of engorgement or congestion {engouement of French writers), the stage of fibrinous exudation, or of red hepatisation or consolidation, and the stage of grey or yellow hepatisation or of resolution. 1. Preliminary Stage of Stokes.—The affected side shows lessened expansion and myotatic irritability. The percussion note is hyper- resonant, or tympanitic, from relaxation of the lung tissue; or there may be a commencing dulness in patches. The breath sounds are harsh and rough, and there is already some increase in vocal resonance. 2. Stage of Engorgement.—There is lessened expansion. On palpation vocal fremitus is increased. The percussion note is abnormally clear, or even tympanitic in places, deficient in resonance in other places. The vesicular murmur is harsh, but at the same time weak. Towards the end of inspiration a fine crepitation is heard over the affected lobe. This is the rdle crepitant of Laennec, to whom we owe so much of the nomenclature of diseases of the chest. Laennec compared this fine crepitus to the crackling of salt thrown upon a fire, but Dr. C. J. B. Williams made a more apt comparison when he likened it to the sound produced by rubbing one's own hair close to the ear between the fingers. Dr. Octavius Sturges imitated the crepitus of early pneumonia by the following manoeuvre: A fine sponge, dipped into a weak solution of gum, is lightly compressed within the hand; upon the gradual relaxation of the pressure a crepitus ensues, which will be more or less fine with the degree of dilution of the gum solution. These comparisons are but of little value. The sound is one s^d generis, once heard never to be forgotten—it is pneumonic crepitation. 3. Red Hepatisation. — In this stage the affected side may be slightly enlarged, especi- ally in young patients, whose chest walls will more readily yield to pressure than the " rigid thorax " (Freund) of old age. Expansion is now markedly lessened. Tactile or vocal fremitus is equally increased, provided always that the bronchi communicating with the solidified part