PULSE, THE 425 tubing was connected with the tambour of the clinical polygraph. This was then attached to a Dudgeon's sphygmograph, which was used to make a simultaneous tracing of the radial pulse. As a control observation a tracing was taken by putting the "receiver" on the skin over the site of the apex-beat, and an ordinary cardio- gram was obtained. The deep respiratory movements led to some alteration in the char- acters of the tracing obtained directly off the ventricular surface, but it is quite similar to that made from the apex-beat (Fig. 111). The " receiver " was probably over the apical portion of the left ventricle, and the tracing represents Fig. 110.—Tracing taken from the pulmonary area in a child aged 3 years. There is a retraction of the skin over this area (inverted cardiogram) at the time of ventricular systole, E (radial pulse). the hardening of the muscle at its systolic con- traction—an ordinary left ventricular cardio- gram. Direct Mechanical Stimulation of the Heart UTider Chloroform.—While the child was under chloroform the heart was touched with the point of the finger, and also with dressing forceps. Direct stimulation applied in this way had no effect whatever on the ventricular beat. The slightly smaller pulse-waves seen in the tracing correspond to inspiration. The Pulse in Tubercular Meningitis There are certain diseases in which the characters of the pulse, when care- fully studied by means of the sphygmograph, bear some diag- nostic or prognos- tic significance. In the present article the special types associated with tubercular meningitis and pneumonia will be shortly considered. The Pulse of Tubercular Meningitis in Young Children.—At a certain stage in the course of tubercular meningitis a slow, irregular pulse is often found, and it is regarded by some as a symptom of considerable value in diagnosis. In children under two years of age, however, a markedly slow irregular pulse is not often observed. The writer has gladly availed him- self of Dr. John Thomson's experience in this disease. In a series of 18 cases examined by Dr. Thomson, occurring in children whose ages ranged from a half to two years, the pulse was, in 3 of these only, under 90 per minute, and irregular in rhythm. But irregularity was sometimes noted when the pulse was much more rapid. Irregularity of the Respiration in Tubercular Meningitis.—During the early period of tuber- cular meningitis in children under two years of age very irregular breathing often coexists with a regular rapid pulse. As an early symptom in these cases, marked irregularity of the respiration may be a suggestive and important sign—it is more significant, and more to be relied on in diagnosis, than mere irregularity of the pulse. In children over two years of age, however, one imdoubtedly often meets with a rather characteristic pulse in the early stages of the dis- ease. We say rather characteristic, because as a single symptom we do not think it can often be absolutely relied upon for purposes of diagnosis. Irregularity of the Pulse in Tuber- cular Meningitis.—Most authorities speak of this pulse as an intermittent one ; and if one could admit the correctness of some of the text-book descriptions, then the features possessed by it would indeed be suffi- ciently characteristic to distinguish it from almost any other. So far as the writer's obser- vations go, he does not think the mere irregu- larity means much, because to the finger it is precisely similar to that of the usual type of youthful irregularity already described. The slowness of the pulse, occurring at a time when the temperature is elevated, often to a considerable degree, is significant, but of still greater suggestiveness is the contracted state of the radial artery. This, in the writer's opinion. Fig. 111.—Simultaneous tracings directly off the left ventricle and from the radial pulse ; the " systolic plateau" E corresponds in time to the systolic portion of the sphygmogram. The respiratory movements have modified the cardiographic tracing. is a very striking condition, and it is an unusual one in young children. There is sometimes a very marked degree of contraction present, and the artery can be rolled like a piece of whip-cord under the finger. The pulse is always slow and hesitating when the vaso-constriction is very pronounced, for the ventricle is then acting against greatly increased peripheral resistance. In this disease slight elevation of the temper- ature does not always lead to relaxation of the ar- teries, so the pulse-rate does not quicken. Hence the suggestive triad of symptoms—pyrexia, slow irregular pulse, and contracted vessels.