PURPURA 441 lightning pains. They have been seen also in myelitis, alcoholic neuritis, and neuralgia, and even in hysteria after severe emotion or over- excitement. B. Purpura as a Disease Symptoms and Course. — (1) Simple Purpura. —This form is almost confined to children of both sexes under the age of fifteen. The family history throws no light on its causation, but it is noteworthy that occasionally more than one child of a family is attacked. The surroundings of the child seem to play no part in the origin of the disease, for it frequently appears in children of good position, as to whose diet and life no fault can be found. In most cases the child appears to be healthy and well-nourished up to the onset of the symptoms. Sometimes it is ill-nourished or rickety. It may be noted that the attack is sometimes preceded or ushered in by diarrhoja, and occasionally indigestible or doubtful food, such as sausages, has produced gastric disturbance a day or two before the onset. Herpes has been known to appear on the lips at the beginning of an attack. As a rule, without any appearance of ill-health, the first thing which attracts attention is the appearance of petechiae. They may be few at first, perhaps appearing in the first place about the neck as often as anywhere, but successive crops are added, until nearly the whole surface of the body is thickly studded with red, purple, or brown spots, having the characters already described. Large patches are sometimes formed by confluence of petechiee. The face may be affected as well as the trunk and extremities, but the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet usually remain free. A few petechise may often be seen inside the lips and on the palate and tongue. They rarely if ever occur on the conjunctivEe or retinse. In very slight cases they may be confined to the lower extremities. Rarely some red wheals are present among the petechise. Ecchymoses are common, and are readily produced by any rough handling. Hfematomata occasionally develop, especially about the buttocks, thighs, and calves, and a bluish-black brawny mass as large as a man's hand is sometimes met with in these situations. On such a mass a bulla containing sanguineous fluid may be formed, but this appearance is not so common here as in the febrile form of purpura. Close observation will sometimes detect a little oedema of the backs of hands and feet. In a few cases there may be some slight epistaxis at the beginning of an attack, or slight oozing of blood from the gums, but with these exceptions the haemorrhage is confined to the skin. Occasionally there is evidence of slight pains in the joints. In all cases the general condition of the child is in striking contrast with the cutaneous appearance. Often there is no indication or feeling of ill-health whatever, and all functions are naturally performed. Sometimes there is loss of appetite and a little restlessness, and perhaps for a few days the temperatiu-e may reach 100° in the evening. The child is, how- ever, often pale when it comes under observa- tion, and sometimes the anaemia increases during the illness, the red corpuscles falling as low as 3,700,000 per c.mm. The leucocytes show no change in number or quality. There is no affection of the joints, no morbid appearance about the tonsils, and no evidence of intestinal disturbance beyond the occasional initial diar- rhoea already mentioned. Recovery is rapid and uniform, the length of the illness seldom exceeding a fortnight. No tendency to recurrence can be traced. (2) Werlhofs Purpura.—This form, if we adhere to Werlhofs description of it, written in the eighteenth century, is a rare disease. It is clear, however, that his description must be amended in two important particulars. But though more cases are thus brought luider the term, it still remains comparatively uncommon. All that has been said of purpura simplex concerning the age and previous history of the patient, and the mode of onset and the early symptoms, holds good for this "morbus macu- losus " of Werlhof. As a rule, it is not until a more extensive haemorrhage has set in, and the illness assumes a severe aspect, that the diag- nosis of the simple form is given up, and the more serious type of disease is recognised. The distinction between them is artificial and un- necessary. The disease has therefore a gradual onset. For some days, or less commonly a week or two, crops of petechise continue to appear, perhaps the nose bleeds spontaneously on one or two occasions, and a little blood-clot may be seen between the teeth. The patient is anajmic, but as a rule presents no other evidence of illness. The hajmorrhagic tendency then rapidly in- creases. Epistaxis may be severe, and may necessitate plugging of the nostrils. The gums ooze freely, but if the adherent clot is removed they are seen to be pale and not swollen. Blood is vomited, and appears in the stools and in the urine. There may be expectoration of red blood, or of a blood-streaked sputum. Bleeding from the uterus and from the auditory meatus may occur. Haemorrhages into the retina are not uncommon. Ecchymoses and ha3matomata may appear in various parts of the body. The tongue remains clean and moist, there is little or no pyrexia, and the appetite is commonly maintained. The blood shows the changes associated with loss of blood, and the red cells usually fall below 2,000,000, and sometimes below 1,000,000 per c.mm. The waxy pallor of the skin is striking, and the main complaint of the patient is the feeling of faintness. According to Werlhofs description, the