226 PREGNANCY, PHYSIOLOGY OF—CHANGES IN THE MATERNAL ORGANS Robin held that there was an apparent increase of size, but that this was due to increase of neurilemma. Kilian believed the nerve tubes increased in length, but not in thickness; while Schroeder stated that they hypertrophied in every way, just as the lymphatics do. The Vagina and External Genitals.—Changes of hypertrophy similar to those which occur in the uterus, though to a lesser degree, take place in the vagina and external genitals. The vaginal canal increases in length and in capacity. The submucous adipose tissue becomes less in amount, but there is marked development of the muscular coat and of the connective tissue. The blood-vessels increase in size and in number, and in consequence of the increased vascularity the mucous membrane assumes a bluish, almost purple, colour which by some is regarded as a very important sign of pregnancy. The mucous membrane of the vagina hypertrophies more than the muscular and external coats, with the result that the normal folds ai-e exaggerated, so much so that frequently these protrude through the vulvar orifice as a violet-coloured swelling. The normal secretion of the vagina is increased, in some cases to such an extent that it forms an actual discharge. The cervix generally occupies a position somewhat to the left of the middle line, and it seems shortened owing to the hypertrophy of the mucous lining of the vagina and the ascent of the uterus into the abdomen. The external genitals become hypertrophied and softened, owing to the increase of vascularity and the development of the lymphatics. The vulva, therefore, appears prominent, the labia being swollen, and the veins seem varicose, while the secretion from the sebaceous and sweat glands is much increased. In multiparse the vulvar orifice gapes, while in primiparte it appears smaller and retracted. The Pelvic Joints.—To a certain extent the articulations of the pelvis share in the changes due to pregnancy. Zaglass held that there was a certain, though very slight, amount of movement in the sacro-iliac joints in the non-pregnant woman. During pregnancy, and especially during the last weeks and during labour, there is a marked serous infiltration of the joints and elongation of the ligaments, and in many women distinct movement of the sacro- iliac and pubic joints can be made out during labour. The sacro-coccygeal joint also becomes more movable. Adjacent Organs.—The other organs in the pelvis undergo changes during pregnancy, partly due to excessive congestion similar to that which occurs in the uterus, and partly due to mechanical pressure. During the early months the pregnant woman suffers from irritability of the bladder, frequent micturition, and sometimes incontinence. These symptoms are due partly to pressure by the growing uterus, and partly to hypersemia of the vesical mucous membrane. Towards the end of preg- nancy these symptoms recur, owing to the sinking of the uterus ; and in some cases reten- tion of urine results from the pressure of the presenting part on the urethra. Nearly all pregnant women suffer from constipation. This, if not due to persistence of habit, is the result of pressure of the gravid uterus upon the sigmoid flexure, interference with the normal peristalsis, and the limited action of the abdominal muscles. ffidema of the lower extremities and a varicose condition of the veins are very common during pregnancy. These, during the later months, are the result of increased intra-abdominal pressure, while in the early months the same changes may occur merely from the slowing of the blood current consequent on the dilatation of the pelvic veins. Pains in the lower ex- tremities are referred to pressure upon the nerve trunks from the lumbar and sacral plexuses. The Abdominal Wall.—The distension of the abdominal walls during pregnancy leads to the production of the " strife gravidarum." These are bluish red lines which become more con- spicuous in the later months, and are found over the lower part of the abdomen, and especially the sides. After labour they persist, and gradually become white in colour. These strise are the result of the stretching of the deep layer of connective tissue of the cutis. During pregnancy these lines are also seen on the nates, the thighs, and the breasts. They are not peculiar to pregnancy, for similar marks may appear on the abdominal wall when it is rapidly stretched, as from a tumour or ascites. Other pigmentary changes in the skin occur, but they are not constant. The most common is the appearance of what is called by some the "linea nigra," a dark-brown line which runs from the symphysis pubis to the umbilicus, or even beyond it. Patches of discoloured skin sometimes appear on the face, especially on the forehead; but these pigmentary changes in the skin are of no diagnostic value in pregnancy. By the fifth month of pregnancy the umbilicus commences to be less deep, by the seventh the depression is obliterated, and from this time onwards it protrudes more and moi'e till it forms a rounded elevation on the abdominal wall. During the last three months of pregnancy a physiological separation of the recti muscles occurs in the gi-eat majority of cases. The elasticity of the abdominal muscles is lessened, and when the distension is very great an actual loss of tonus takes place. The muscles which chiefly suffer in this respect are the transversalis, the external and internal oblique muscles; while the recti, on account of their length and thickness, suffer to a much less extent, if at all. Changes in the Mammae.—From the second