EETINA AND OPTIC NEEVE 530 the tumour is very large its removal cannot be expected to save or even prolong life, and it is advisable to leave it alone. In such a case palliative medical treatment is all that can be done. Congenital Abnormalities.—The absence of pigment in albinos has already been mentioned. For the appearance of the retina met with in coloboma of the choroid, we must refer to the account given of this latter condition (see art. "Choroid," vol. ii. p. 139). Not infrequently we find small, round, black spots on the fundus, usually few in number, and not interfering with normal vision. They have an appearance such as would be presented by tiny drops of black pigment flicked over the red fundus from a brush, and are due to localised aggregations of retinal epithelial pigment. In some cases, again, we may observe very small bright dots in the retina, chiefly in the neighbour- hood of the optic disc. They can only be seen by the direct method, and are generally found near the large vessels in the optic disc neighbour- hood, flashing into view and disappearing on small movements of the mirror, but always re- appearing in the same position, and best seen near the edge of the image of the flame. Their pi-esence is often accompanied by symptoms of asthenopia. OpaqtLe nerve fibres usually occur in the form of a wedge, having its blunt apex at the edge of the disc, and its base directed towards the equator of the eye. The affected area is brilliantly white, often rather fluffy in appear- ance, and the large retinal vessels are here almost, if not quite, concealed from view. It seldom reaches far peripherally, and generally ends in an irregular teased-out-looking border. It is commonly situated above or below the disc, but may completely surround it. Excep- tionally, the patch of opaque nerve fibres is situated at some distance from the disc, and separated from the latter by normal red fundus ; it is then more brush-like in form, the inner end presenting an abrupt edge, while its equatorial end is here again broader and teased- out-looking. The whiteness and opacity in all cases of this nature are due to the presence of a medullary sheath round the axis cylinders of the retinal nerve fibre layer. Normally, all these fibres gain this covering at the sclei'al opening, but exceptionally it is assumed earlier —in some few cases, as we have seen, to be lost again temporarily. Occasionally this retinal condition is confused with inflammatory eff'usion or choroidal atrophy; attention to the state of the fundus elsewhere, and to the pigmentary and vascular appearances, should leave no doubt as to the true nature of each of these several ophthalmoscopic changes. Congenital irregularities in the blood-vessels of the retina are not infrequent. It is by no means uncommon to have the retina supplied in part by a branch from one of the posterior ciliary arteries, a so-called cilio-retinal artery. It generally pierces the disc near its edge, and then curves backwards to ramify over the adjacent retina, taking the place of a branch of the arteria centralis. In cases of embolism of the latter, the presence of a cilio-retinal vessel becomes important, as the portion of retina corresponding to this blood-supply retains its visual function. . Occasionally we find the retinal vessels very tortuous, simply as a congenital peculiarity. Very rarely a direct communication between a retinal artery and vein has been observed, and sometimes between a retinal and choroidal vessel. Retinitis. See Ketina and Optic Nerve {^Inflammation of Retina). Retino-Choroiditis. See Choroid, Diseases of (Retino-Ghoroiditis). RetinOSCO py.—Synonyms.—Shadow Test, Skiascopy, Keratoscopy, Pupiloscopy. Retinoscopy is the most accurate and the most generally useful of the objective methods of estimating the refraction of the eye. By it can be determined the amount of hyperme- tropia, myopia, or astigmatism—both corneal and lenticular—that may be present, and while practising it, valuable information as to the condition of the media is obtained. Of the two other objective methods, direct estimation by means of the refraction ophthal- moscope is one which should be practised when- ever possible. By this method alone can diff"erences in level in the fundus be accurately determined, while at the same time a detailed view of the fundus is obtained; but when measuring the refraction, even for the most expert, it is very difficult to get such an accurate result—especially in low degrees of astigmatism ai:id the determination of the axes— as that obtained by retinoscopy. The various ophthalmometers measure only the corneal astigmatism, and do not deal with either lenticular astigmatism or any spherical error of refraction (hypermetropia or myopia). Both these methods are valuable for estimating the refraction in certain cases. The practice of retinoscopy is carried out as follows : The observer sits one metre in front of the patient in the dark room. The lamp is placed above and slightly behind the patient's head, so that its light falls directly on the observer and not on the patient's face. It is well that the room be as dark as possible, so that there may be no unnecessary reflections from the patient's cornea, and that the redo- reflex may be of maximum brightness. By means of a perforated mirror held up to his eye, the observer reflects the light into the patient's eye, looking meanwhile through the