514 KETINA AND OPTIC NERVE Usually, however, failure of vision is a prominent symptom. This sometimes pro- gresses rapidly, but blindness never occurs suddenly and remains permanently ; although short, temporary attacks of darkness are not very uncommon in papillitis due to brain tumour. It must be borne in mind that amblyopia occurring in a case of papillitis may be due, not to the neuritis, but to direct pressure of a tumour on nerve, chiasma, or some more central part of the visual tracts. The nature of the amblyopia (uniocular failure, bi-temporal loss of field, or homonymous hemianopia) will suggest this explanation, besides indicating the part involved, and may thus be of great localising value. As a rule, in papillitis the failure of vision is gi-adual, slowly affecting central vision (espe- cially at first for green and red), with pro- gressive peripheral, sectorial, or irregular con- traction of the visual field. Sometimes a neuritic sector-defect is binocular, simulating hemianopia of intracranial origin. In 7-etro-ocular neuritis the loss of vision is often rapid, and occurs mainly in the form of a central scotoma, at first only or mainly for green and red, later for all light (absolute scotoma). In acute cases of this kind there may be great amblyopia without any ophthal- moscopic change; indeed, in such cases the papilla is usually first involved when the severity of the attack is passing off and vision has begun to improve. This form is not infrequently one-sided, and the complaint of great loss of vision, while the optic disc appears normal, may excite the suspicion of malingering or of (so-called) hysterical amblyopia. In such a case of doubt an examination of the pupillary reaction will clear up the diagnosis ; if the pupil of the (query) amblyopic eye fails to react as well as the other to direct stimulation by light, but acts perfectly consensually, we may rely upon there being some affection of the optic nerve to account for the blindness, although there is no other objective evidence of it. Ophthalmoscopic Changes.—In well-marked papillitis the following appearances are found :— The edge of the optic disc is quite hidden from view, and the retina for some distance around is rather pale and cloudy. The general vascularity of the disc is much increased, while a greyish haze dulls its deeper details and obliterates the physiological cup. The whole papilla is swollen, so as to be considerably above the level of the adjoining retina, and many fine straight vessels may be seen radiating from it on every side, coursing over the obscured edge. The large retinal vessels, particularly the arteries, are often hidden at their exit on the papilla, and also here and there in their course over or just beyond it. The veins are enlarged, dark, and tortuous. showing evidently an obstructed venous flow. The arteries are normal or slightly narrowed. On the disc or in the adjoining retina hsemor- rhages are often present, and sometimes also smooth, opaque, white spots. In the slighter forms there may be merely some increased redness, doubtful swelling of the disc, with obscuration of the edge (partic- ularly above and below), and distended veins. Between these extremes there are many gradations observable in different cases, marked by more or less swelling and obscuration of de- tails. These different degrees may simply be stages in the development of a gross papillitis, or any one may be the height of the affection where the papillitis is of less severity. In a rapid, intense papillitis or "choked disc," the chief visible changes in the papilla (swelling and increased vascularity) are probably due mainly or entirely to oedema with pressure on the central vein, and in such cases there are generally evidences of great increase of intracranial pressure — intense headache with sickness. Should the intracranial pressure be relieved in such a case, the ophthalmoscopic signs quickly subside and leave no trace of their former presence. As a rule, however, the progress of subsidence after papillitis is much more gradual, and of a less simple character. In such cases the redness of the papilla gradually disappears, while the swelling becomes reduced both in height and extent. The veins usually remain distended for some time, but ultimately all the vessels are narrowed. The edge of the disc again becomes visible, the outer margin coming first into view. The disc is opaque and woolly- looking at first, but gradually gets smoother; its surface is occupied by less or more newly formed tissue, which often permanently conceals the lamina cribrosa. Around the disc there is frequently a pale zone, sometimes with scattered pigment granules, the result of changes in the retinal pigment layer. Should complete atrophy result, the disc is usually of a brilliantly white colour, and the larger vessels on or near it are often bordered by opaque white lines. In cases of retro-ocular neuritis, the resulting pallor of the disc is sometimes the first ophthalmoscopic sign of the disease, but generally it is preceded by papillitis, which may be slight, moderate, or intense. The amount of resulting atrophy is usually com- paratively slight, but varies much in degree. Not infrequently the pallor of the disc is greatly in excess of what we should expect from the excellent recovery of vision. Rapid failure of vision, usually in one eye only, often accompanied by pain and tenderness in the neighbourhood, absence of early ophthal- moscopic changes, and a tendency to recovery, are the usual prominent clinical features in retro-ocular neuritis.