PULSE, THE 432 When there is a liver pulse it is always identical with the jugular pulse, the blood being sent from the auricle through the inferior vena cava. In this tracing it will be seen that there is a large wave which immediately precedes the ^ A A Liver ' r\ ^ (\ i\ 6 \ c \ \J Fig. 133.—Simultaneous tracings of the venous and liver pulses, showing the wave (c) in the jugular pulse which is really due to the carotid impulse. (Mackenzie.) carotid pulse. At the same time that the carotid pulse appears, the wave (fj) is falling, and the carotid pulse therefore corresponds with the collapse of the vein or liver. The wave (b) can only be due to the auricular systole. In Fig. 133 there is a simul- taneous tracing of the liver and jugular pulses. In the jugular pulse there is a small wave (c), which interrupts the fall of the auricular wave (b). This small wave (c) is really due to the carotid. When the carotid is very small and the jugular pulse very large, the tracing may not show this carotid wave. In Fig. 134 the carotid pulse is taken at the same time as the jugular, and the wave (c) is found to cor- respond exactly with the time of the carotid pulse. The wave (c) has, of course, nothing to do with the venous pulsation ; it is simply due to the movement of the carotid artery in the neck (see p. 398). Immediately following the auricular wave (b) there is a great collapse of the vein—(j.') in the tracings. This is due to the sudden empty- ing of the vein into the auricle during the aur- icular diastole, and it is synchronous with the arterial pulse. This fall is interrupted by a second wave (a), which is called the ventricular wave. Mackenzie has clearly demonstrated the true cause of this wave, and it is due to the ventricular systole. It appears a little later than the carotid pulse, because the first part of the wave is absorbed by the dilating auricle. This is the important factor in the interpretation of the venous pulse; it is not till the auricle has filled that this wave appears. When this explanation is fully appreciated it is easy to understand how a venous pulse of the auricular type becomes converted into the ven- tricular form—how the ventricular wave enlarges when the auricular diminishes. The powerful right ventricle pumps blood into the thin, weak-walled auricle until the latter becomes enormously distended. Matters proceed until complete paralysis of the auricle occurs, and, according to Mackenzie, this is by no means a rare event, though it is not properly realised by observers. Before this stage is reached the auricle is still capable of con- tracting, and Fig. 135 represents a tracing where the liver pulse is taken at the same time as the radial pulse. The auricular waves (b) and the ventricular waves (a) are now about equal. A subsequent trac- ing from the same patient (Fig. 136) shows only one wave, and that wave is entirely ventricular systolic in time. There is abso- lutely no sign of auriciilar contraction. Dr. Mackenzie made a post-mortem ex- amination on this case a month later, and found that the auricle resembled a thin-walled sac with a few strands of muscular fibres scattered over it. Patients who exhibit a venous pulse of this kind, a pulse demonstrat- ing that the auricle has ceased to contract, R^.Int.Jugfular ^ c " ■ ■ ■ 1 Fig. 134.—Simultaneous tracings of tlie carotid and jugular pulses, showing that the wave (c) corresponds exactly with the time of the carotid pulse. (Mackenzie.) may apparently live for many years. The auricle is then merely a reservoir for the blood during the ventricular systole. A venous pulse of the auricular type may not signify much cardiac failure; but if the SB Fig. 135.—Simultaneous tracings of the liver and radial pulses. The liver pulse shows auricular (b) and ventricular (a) waves of equal size. (Mackenzie.) liver pulse is also present, then it is a sure indication of advanced heart mischief. The auricular venous pulse may be temporarily present when there is little deviation from the normal standard of health. Venous Pulsation in Children.—Pulsation of the jugular veins is not a very uncommon phenomenon in children. In conditions of de-