RHEUMATISM—EHEUMATOm ARTHRITIS 560 tions of able workers, but even now wide diversity of opinion exists among observers of repute as to its pathology and true place in medicine. It seems possible that conditions widely different in origin, in clinical manifesta- tions, and in results have been grouped together as rheumatoid arthritis, leading to the confusion apparent in writings on the subject. An attempt will be made in these pages to describe the disease as it occurs in adults, and in certain varieties which are marked off from each other with some clearness. It is perhaps doubtful whether these groups .will ultimately be placed together under one name, but for the present, tradition and convenience require that they should be considered side by side. Cases presenting themselves for observation in adults fall into the following main clinical groups:— 1. Polyarticular rheumatoid arthritis: (a) Subacute and chronic ; (b) Acute. 2. Localised or senile rheumatoid arthritis. 1. Polyarticular Rheumatoid Arthritis (a) Subacute and Chronic Etiology.—Age.—This form occurs at any age from childhood to late adult life. The age most prone to attack appears to be that between thirty-five and fifty, the period of commencing tissue degeneration. Cases occurring much earlier are common, and women are frequently attacked during the time of greatest reproduc- tive activity. The records of the New Hospital for Women furnish repeated examples of this fact. A certain number of cases appear about puberty. On the whole, the earlier the time of attack the more severe and rapidly progressive is the course of the illness, but there are exceptions to this general truth. Some of the early cases improve strikingly under treatment, and the disease may even become arrested if it has been recognised early and dealt with at once. Hereditary influence does not appear to be strongly shown in the history of this disease. Garrod considers that heredity has an unim- portant bearing on its production, and is de- cidedly less marked in this affection than in gout; it is probably not to be traced with any frequency even in the rheumatoid arthritis of children. It is not very rare to find several female members of a family suffering more or less severely from rheumatoid arthritis, and a history can sometimes be obtained, especially in private practice, of a joint affection which sounds like rheumatoid arthritis in relatives in a previous generation. It is not unknown for several male members of one family to suffer from early and severe forms, but this is rare. Bannatyne analyses 293 cases, and finds a history of clear inheritance in 15 only. Sta- tistics as to heredity, compiled from the state- ments of patients respecting the joint affections of their relatives, are open to fallacies so obvious as to greatly diminish their value. As regards sex, there is undoubtedly a great and special liability among women to suffer. Badt gives a recent analysis of 53 cases observed by him. Of these 6 per cent were males, 94 per cent were females. In 80 per cent of the female cases the illness began at the climacteric. The influence of pelvic disease and of the menopause has been dwelt upon by many writers, and statistics show that these condi- tions are of great importance. At the climac- teric the general health of women is lowered, and they are then liable to suffer from diseases of the reproductive system. Of such diseases probably those most potent in the production of rheumatoid arthritis are such as are associ- ated with exhausting losses from the uterus, especially htemorrhages from any cause, and, to a less degree, copious purulent or muco-purulent discharges. At the New Hospital for Women the occurrence of rheumatoid arthritis, more or less severe, in association with menorrhagia due to fibroid tumours of the uterus has been repeatedly observed. Such an association has been noted also by Ord. Other less definite conditions, such as uterine displacements or ovarian neuralgia, have been thought to bear some causative relation to the disease, but it is difficult to trace the evidence on which this opinion is based. Chronic ovarian pain seems a possible influence, and in one case had been a source of great suffering in an unmarried woman of thirty-two, who developed severe rheumatoid arthritis. It has been suggested that the special liability of women at the climacteric may be due to a failure on the part of the ovary at that time to exercise its normal influence on general nutrition, and Badt suggests the use of ovarian extract. The idea belongs at present to the region of hypothesis, but deserves further investigation. There does not appear to be a special danger of the onset of the disease after the removal of the ovaries surgically. This point has been under observation at the New Hospital for Women, and so far the evidence is negative. Garrod pointed out that rheumatoid arthritis occurs early and in severe forms in association with rapid child-bearing and over-lactation, and other observers have amply confirmed this state- ment. It is probable that any cause whatever which tends to lower the general health and to produce marked debility and failure of nutrition may predispose to the disease. In women diseases of the pelvic organs form so consider- able a proportion of the causes of ill-health, that it is to be expected that these diseases should take a prominent place in the history of an illness liable to attack the debilitated from any cause.