139 PLEURA, DISEASES OF sometimes merely febrile, sometimes it points to a pre-existing nephritis, of which pleurisy is a frequent concomitant. In chronic cases dilatation of the heart and dropsy are not in- frequent. Clubbing at the ends of the fingers is common in empyema, but not unknown in chronic cases of serous effusion. Pneumothorax is related rather to empyema than to serous pleurisy (see "Pneumothorax," p. 145). Acute oedema of the lungs occasionally, but very rarely, supervenes upon aspiration. Differential Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of pleurisy is usually an easy task. Sometimes, however, there may be difficulties, and occasion- ally a positive opinion may be impossible. Difficulties may arise either (a) in connection with pleural friction, or (b) in connection with the recognition of eiTusion. We shall consider the subject under these two heads. Pleural friction is in a large majority of cases unmistakable. Its rubbing or scraping- quality, its superficiality, its dependence on the respiratory act, its independence of coughing, its association with pain, its intensification by pressure of the stethoscope, its usual distribu- tion, make its recognition generally obvious. Its distinction from pericardial friction rarely gives rise to serious difficulty. Pericardial friction is much more rapid than pleural fric- tion, it has usually a to-and-fro quality, it is confined to the praecordial area, and is most fre- quent at the base of the heart, it does not cease, except in very rare cases, when the breath is held. It must be borne in mind that the re- flection of the pleura over the pericardium may be affected, and may give rise to confusing- physical signs. A much more serious difficulty arises sometimes in connection with some cases of sticky and greasy exudation on the pleural surface, which may cause a sound readily mis- taken for crepitus. The following points will help in obviating this error. Friction is " super- ficial," crepitus is deep. Friction is not affected by coughing, crepitus often is affected by cough- ing. Friction is often intensified by pressure of the stethoscope, crepitus never. Friction is often audible throughout the greater part of inspiration and expiration, though there are exceptions to this rule; crepitus is often, though by no means always, confined to the end of inspiration and the beginning of expiration. Friction is commonly accompanied by pain, crepitus rarely. Lastly, if we examine in the neighbourhood of the doubtful sound we shall often detect unambiguous friction or crepitus, which may settle the diagnosis. Pleurodynia may be confused with pleurisy. Many cases diagnosed as pleurodynia are really cases of "dry" pleurisy. Error may be best avoided by careful physical examination, and by the use of the thermometer; the presence of pyrexia to be allowed much, its absence little, weight. More formidable are the difficulties which sometimes beset the diagnosis of pleural effusion. Most observers are agreed that in exceptional cases, especially in children, the signs of pleural effusion may be indistinguishable from those of consolidation. As an abstract proposition this is unquestionably true, yet the cases in which the distinction is impossible are not numerous. Too much reliance upon the auscultatory signs is the chief source of error. We should rely chiefly on (1) the state of the vocal fremitus, viz. upon its diminution or disappearance in pleural effusion, its normal or increased inten- sity in consolidation ; (2) the outline and limits of the dull ai-ea, sometimes characteristic in pleural effusion (see ante, " Physical Signs," p. 137) ; and (3) the displacement of organs, especially the heart. If a careful inquiry under these heads still leaves the case in doubt, an exploratory punctiire should be made in all cases in which a positive diagnosis is desirable. In some cases of pneumonia a temporary blocking of the bronchial tubes with secretion may cause signs which simulate those of pleural effusion, viz. loss of vocal fremitus, loss of breath sounds, and diminution or altered quality of vocal resonance. The effect of coughing- and expectorating will serve to clear these cases up. Malignant disease of the lung may give rise to signs which cannot be discriminated with certainty from those of pleural eftlision. In a recent case in the writer's practice the lower portion of the right lung presented the signs of wooden dulness on percussion, complete absence of vocal fremitus, and entire loss of breath sounds. The presence of some suspicious super- ficial nodules and the general history of the case gave rise to the suspicion of malignancy, and at the autopsy the right lung was found to be invaded by a large mass of encephaloid car- cinoma. In such cases, which are of extreme rarity, reliance must be placed, not on physical signs, but upon the history and symptoms. Persistent pain is usually present in malignant disease of the lungs, haemoptysis is common, but not invariable, the general progress of the case is characteristic of malignancy, and pres- sure signs tend to develop, but may be late in appearance. Diaphragmatic pleurisy may give rise to diffi- culty. Severe pain is the chief feature of these cases at an early stage, more or less pyrexia will probably be present, and after a short time clear physical signs will tend to appear, as the pleurisy is probably never wholly confined to the reflection of the pleura upon the diaphragm. Encysted or loculated effusions, usually con- ditioned by the pressure of old adhesions, may give rise to puzzling physical signs. Loculation may occur at any part of the pleural cavity, but seems to be most frequent in the lower lateral or posterior region. It may occur be- tween the lobes of the lung. Puncture should