258 PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—INTRA-UTERINE DISEASES, DEATH OF FCETUS rounded with the malarial poison. The giving of mercury to the syphilitic mother for her own sake, but also for that of her unborn infant, need not be specially referred to, for it is an everyday matter in practice; but it is well to remember that when the father alone is affected, it is still right to administer mercury to the mother when pregnant for the purpose of directly acting on the child. Chlorate of potash is a drug which has a good effect upon certain abnormal intra-uterine states, such as the tend- ency to habitual abortion or premature labour; possibly it proves beneficial by its action on the placenta ; it may be combined with iron with advantage. There are certain cases in which, on the other hand, it may be good treatment to induce labour before the full time, in order to save the infant from a malady which has been shown to come on about the last month of intra-uterine life, and the same course has been taken when a woman has on previous occasions given birth to infants which die in labour simply on account of their post-mature development. Special Diseases of the F(etus The individual diseases of the fcetus cannot all be considered in this article, for that would entail the writing of a system of antenatal medicine; it will suffice if the maladies whose pathology differs most markedly from that of post-natal life be dealt with. The first that call for description are the idiopathic diseases of the skin. Skin Affections. — Foetal ichthyosis {major degree) is one of the most deforming of all the congenital skin affections. It is histologically a hyperkeratosis, and is characterised by the existence all over the body of horny epidermic plates, separated from each other by narrow fissures or deep and broad grooves ; this gives to the infant the appearance which has earned for him the name of " harlequin foetus." The mouth, eyes, and anus show ectropion, and the nose, ears, and limbs are more or less stunted in their growth from the compression exercised upon them by the thickened epidermis. The disease has shown family prevalence, that is to say, several infants of the same parents have been affected with it. It is not compatible with extra-uterine life, for in all the recorded cases death has followed birth within a few hours, or at most days. Lactation is always much interfered with by the state of the mouth. The horny layer of the epidermis is enormously thickened ; this is the most characteristic lesion, and justifies the name ichthyosis, although in its adult form ichthyosis never approaches in severity to the fcetal. Foetal ichthyosis [minor degree) is character- ised \>y the birth of an infant which appears as if it were coated all over with a layer of col- lodion. In a short time desquamation begins, and may go on more or less continuously for years. There is not usually much ectropion of the eyes and mouth, but cases have been re- ported showing the intermediate degrees be- tween thisj the benign, and the more grave type of foetal ichthyosis which has been described above. It is not incompatible with a prolonged extra-uterine existence, and is cap- able of showing improvement under suitable treatment by warm alkaline baths and inunction with lanoline or glycerine. Ichthyosis herpetiformis is characterised by the presence of papillomatous growths, dis- tributed along the line of one or more of the cutaneous nerves, usually limited very exactly to one side of the body, and more or less pig- mented. To this condition many names have been given, such as nervenaevus, nsevus neur- oticus unius lateris, ichthyosis linearis neuro- pathica, and papilloma neuroticum ; and it may be regarded as a localised form of congenital ichthyosis hystrix. It has been ascribed to foetal herpes zoster. Division of the nerve sup- plying the affected area has been followed by cure. Tylosis palmoe et plantoe is another form of hyperkeratosis, but it is limited in distribution to the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. It is very markedly hereditary. The lesion exists at birth, but only becomes evident when pressure on the parts becomes considei'able. It has been also called ichthyosis palmaris et plantaris and keratoma plantare et palmare. Improvement may be obtained by painting the surface with a solution of salicylic acid in ether (5 per cent). Foetal keratolysis, or desquamation of the cuticle, is a normal phenomenon at the end of the first week of life, but it is exceptional to find it in the infant at the moment of birth. When it is met with in the foetus it may signify foetal measles, scarlatina, erysipelas, syphilis, ana- sarca, or simply post-maturity of the infant. Antenatal desquamation of the cuticle has by some been regarded as a certain sign of foetal death, but it is undoubtedly found occasionally in the living infant. Congenital hypertrichosis, or abnormal hairy- ness, may be general or local. In the former there is a persistence of the general lanugo- covering of middle foetal life, and individuals thus affected are known as "hairy men," " missing links," and "hommes-chiens." There is sometimes defective development of the teeth. Localised hirsuties has its commonest form in the well-known hairy ncevus or mole. It occurs on the face, back, or limbs, and may be associ- ated with defects of the skeleton, such as spina bifida occulta and encephalocele. It is often ascribed to the so-called maternal impressions. The condition is of importance only on account of the deformity which it causes, and successful treatment by means of electricity or the Rdntgen rays may be obtained.