PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 82 in other forms. In moderate doses it stimulates the heart and dilates the arterioles, and thus no marked change in the blood pressure is pro- duced. On the nervous system its action seems to be purely toxic. Its first action in checking the activity of metabolism, along with its in- fluence in producing dilatation of the cutaneous vessels, is taken advantage of in its use in the treatment of high temperature in some fevers. Tea, coffee, and cocoa have as their essential constituents the substances theine and caffeine, which are methyl derivatives of xanthin, a diureide which is excreted in the urine {see p. 87). They tend to paralyse the sensory mechanism of the brain, and hence abolish the sense of fatigue. They stimulate the heart and the secreting action of the kidneys, but they have no effect upon the metabolism. Cocoa nibs contain about 8 per cent of protein and about 50 per cent of fat. Cocoa is therefore an energy-yielding food. Section VII.—-Internal Secretions or Hormones—Their Production and Action The products of the metabolism of the various organs are carried away in the lymph and blood, and certain of these products exercise an im- portant influence upon other structures in the body. Thus, the carbon dioxide produced in muscle acts upon and stimulates the respiratory centre, and the secretion formed in the lining membrane of the duodenum stimulates the pancreas. These products have been termed internal secretions, while more recently the name Hormones or "Activators" has been suggested for them. Among the structures which are known to yield such hormones are :— 1. Suprarenal Bodies.—These structures lie just above the kidneys Each consists of a tough co7-tex composed of epithelial-like cells arranged in columns, and a soft medulla con- sisting of cells derived from neuron cells which stain of a peculiar brown colour with chromic acid. The medulla is developed from the sym- pathetic chain of ganglia. The cortex is a perfectly independent structure derived from the surrounding mesoblast, and in teleostean fishes it is quite apart from the representative of the medullary part. A suprarenal body is thus two distinct and independent organs com- bined with one another (Fig. 169). Long ago Brown-Sequard found that removal of these bodies causes great muscalar weakness, loss of tone of the vascular system, loss of appetite, and finally death in a short time. Addison had already pointed out that a similar set of symptoms, accompanied by pigmentation of the skin, is associated with diseased conditions of these organs in man. The injection of small quantities of the medullary portion of the bodies, or of extracts of it, exercises a powerful effect on the endings of the thoracico-abdominal visceral nerves. The most marked result is to cause contraction of the arterioles and an enormous rise in the blood pressure. That the action is upon the endings of these nerves is shown by the fact that M'Fie found no action on the heart of the chick in which the nerves are not yet developed, while Brodie has failed to get any Fig. 169.—Section through cortex and medulla of the suprarenal l)ody of a mammal; a, 6, c, d, cortex ; f, medulla. effect on the vessels of the lungs in which the sympathetic nerve terminations are said to be absent. Further, apocodeine, which poisons the nerve endings, abolishes the effect of suprarenal extracts. Cardiac inhibition is produced—but this may be due to the rise of blood pressure. It is abolished by the administration of atropin. These extracts also cause a dilatation of the pupil (vol. vii. p. 537) in the cat, and they in- hibit intestinal peristalsis. Their action on the bladder varies according to the action of the sympathetic fibre, which is different in different animals. In those in which these fibres cause contraction, extract of the suprarenal acts in this way ; in those in which relaxation is caused, the extract causes relaxation. With blood- vessels which are not supplied with vaso-con- strictor fibres, e.g. those of the lungs and heart, the extract does not act, and hence a rush of blood to the lungs is caused. As already indicated (p. 75), injections of extracts of the suprarenal bodies profoundly modify the metabolism, leading to an increase of sugar in the blood and to its excretion in the urine. This is best marked when the animal is well fed and has a store of glycogen in its liver; but since it occurs in fasting animals, after the stored carbohydrates have been cleared out by the administration of phloridzin (p. 74), it would appear to be due, in part at least, either to a non-utilisation of sugar by the tissues or to an increased production of sugar from proteins. A decrease in the nitrogen in the form of urea