262 PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF-INTRA UTERINE DISEASES, DEATH OF FCETUS in maternal erysipelas, the foetus may suffer, not from the cutaneous manifestations of ery- sipelas, but from septic poisoning. In relation to foetal sepsis it must not be forgotten that sometimes the foetus has become infected from the vaginal secretions of the mother, either before labour, through premature rupture of the membranes; or intra-natally, during the progress of the body through the birth-canal. Foetal malaria is an occurrence the possibility of which may now be looked upon as proven. Women suffering from intermittent fever have given birth to infants with hypertrophy of the spleen, and showing in the blood the hsematozoon of malaria; further, during gestation it has been recognised that the incidence of a maternal ague fit has been accompanied by active foetal movements which could only be explained on the supposition that the unborn infant also was the subject of a rigor. Felkin has reported a curious case in which a woman, apparently quite free from malaria, gave birth to an infant with malaria, and showing the ague splenic enlarge- ment ; the father was seriously ill with malaria, and the supposition was that the foetus had been directly infected by the semen. In cases of malaria in pregnancy the fear of causing premature labour or abortion by the adminis- tration of quinine has been probably much ex- aggerated ; it is well to give the drug, not only for the sake of the mother, but also on behalf of the unborn infant. Foetal tuhercidosis is a malady the existence of which has been doubted ; but of late years a number of cases have been reported in which the conditions found were such as to leave no longer any reasonable doubt about the occasional occurrence of truly tubercular lesions in utero. In some of the cases actual tubercular lesions were discovered in the foetvis; in others, although there were no gross lesions, yet the tubercle bacillus was detected in the foetal organs, and inoculations of animals with pieces of the foetal organs and with blood from the umbilical vein set up in these animals undoubtedly tubercular processes. An excellent instance of fostal tu- berculosis, with lesions, was recently reported by Auche and Chambrelent {Aixh. de med. exper. et d'anat. 2Mth. xi. 521, 1899). It was that of a prematurely born, but living female infant, the product of a tubercular woman who died three days after her confinement. At the autopsy it was found that she had been the subject of advanced phthisis and of tubercular disease of the liver, spleen, intestines, mesenteric glands, and kidneys, but the genitals, organs, and peritoneum were free from infection. The infant, born about the sixth month of intra- uterine life, lived for twenty-six days in the couveuse, and then died, having lost weight, but having shown no other sign of illness. At tlie autopsy no peritonitis was found, and the intestine was free from lesions; but in the liver were numerous yellow granulations, in the spleen were crowds of the same punctiform granulations, and in the lungs were small numbers of grey, transparent granulations. The bronchial glands also were tubercular. Microscopic examination revealed an excessive number of tubercles in the liver, some caseated in the centre, with an enormous quantity of the bacilli of Koch. The spleen showed similar changes, there was tubercular endocarditis in the right ventricle of the heart. There were no giant cells. The placenta was also tuber- cular, and animals inoculated with pieces of it, and with the foetal organs, developed tubercul- osis. In this case there could be no doubt that the foetus had become infected with tuber- culosis. The reason why such cases are rare is probably to be found in the fact that in order to reach the foetus the bacilli must be in the blood stream, and that they seldom are there imless the tuberculosis of the mother has become generalised. Further, many cases of foetal tuberculosis may have been passed over because the lesions were looked for in the lungs, where, on account of the mechanism of foetal infection, they are very seldom to be found. That the foetal tissues are a suitable soil for the growth of the tubercle bacillus is proved by the extraordinary proportions of the bacillary invasion in the cases that have been reported. That the tubercle bacillus may be carried directly into the organism by the sperm has been affirmed, but manifestly the complete proof is surrounded with almost insurmountable difficulties. The foetus is liable to toxicological states transmitted to it from the mother through the placenta; but regarding these comparatively little is known. Much yet remains to be dis- covered regarding the effect of alcohol, absinthe, lead, mercury, copper, and the like taken into the maternal system upon the health of the unborn infant. It has been experimentally demonstrated that in the case of guinea-pigs the placenta has a tendency to store up copper and mercury, but not lead, which passes easily and completely through to the foetuses; arsenic passes with greater difficulty, mercury appar- ently not at all, and copper, although it is ac- cumulated in the placenta, also passes through it. It is interesting to know that lead, after it passes, tends to be stored up in the nervous system of the foetus, while arsenic goes to the skin. From what has been experimentally determined regarding the teratogenic powers of alcohols injected into the hen's egg, it may be hazarded that it is possible that they may have a similar effect upon the mammalian embryo. The so-called Traumatic States of the Fcetus include congenital fractures, dislocations, and amputations. The fractures that are met with in the infant at birth are usually due to the birth-traumatism, although they may have been predisposed to by truly antenatal fragility of