250 PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—DISEASES OF PLACENTA AND CORD Size and Shape.—While subject to considerable variations within certain limits, the size of the placenta corresponds during the last three months of gestation to about one-fifth of the total area of the internal surface of the uterus. A marked increase in the area or thickness is usually due to oedema or to some form of degeneration, and thus becomes a pathological condition, not an anomaly. A few rare instances have, however, been recorded in which the placenta was equally disposed around the entire ovum, instead of being developed at one or other pole. This condition has received the name of jdacenta memhranacea. It is, of course, due to persist- ence of the arrangement invariably found in the first two months of gestation in which the chorionic villi are equally developed all over that membrane. In some mammals {e.g. the cetacea) the diffused form of placenta is always met with, and its occasional occurrence in the human species is extremely interesting. A case has also been comparatively recently reported in which the placenta formed a ring around the ovum, indistinctly divided into three lobes. This corresponds to the zonary placenta of some carnivora. It is produced by an anomaly in the distribution of the changes which result in the disappearance of the extra - placental chorionic villi. Instead of being a single organ, the placenta may be variously divided into lobes, the segments being continuous with one another through membrane over which the branches of the umbilical vessels pass. There may be two lobes (placenta bipartita), either equal or un- equal, or three or more lobes may be present (placenta tripartita, p. multiloba). All medical men are familiar with the variety of this con- dition known as placenta succenturiata, in which one or more small outlying portions of placenta, usually circular in shape, are found connected by a bridge of membrane with the main portion of the organ, and are extremely liable to be left behind when the placenta is expelled from the uterus. Anoinalies in the insertion of the co7-d are also fairly common. Usually the attachment is in the centre of the placental organ; not infre- quently it is markedly eccentric, sometimes even to the extent of being attached to the placental margin (battledore placenta). A rarer variety of insertion is that known as the vela- mentous, in which the cord is inserted into the membranes two or three inches or more outside the placental margin. The vessels bifurcate at the point of insertion, and their divisions run between the amnion and the chorion to the placenta, which they enter in the usual manner. The vessels running between the membranes are liable to injury during labour. The placenta is usually developed equally around the point on the periphery of the ovum at which the allantois and the ventral stalk reach it. If for any reason the placenta is developed unequally aroimd this spot, eccentric insertion of the cord results; if at a distance from this spot, a velamentous insertion results. Diseases of the Placenta InJlammatio7i. — A subject which bulked largely in earlier accounts of the morbid condi- tions of the placenta was placentitis. The changes described were usually those already mentioned as senile or post-mortem changes, and their relation to an inflammatory process was a matter of pure speculation. As a matter of fact, we know nothing of inflammation of the foetal placenta, apart from gonorrhoeal or septic infection, as the direct result of inoculation of the gravid uterus. Infection of the ovum in this manner is, of course, incompatible with its further existence, and the dead tissues undergo' rapid putrefaction. The gonococcus has been in two cases detected in early abortions attrib- utable clinically to gonorrhoea, but little or no systematic work has been done at the bacteri- ology of this subject. It is possible that the condition known as " morbid adhesion of the placenta " is the result of an inflammatory affec- tion of the decidua serotina, but we are not in possession of positive evidence upon the point. The foetal elements are, in any case, not involved in the process. Certain fairly well-defined forms of inflammation affect the young decidual mem- bi'ane (decidual endometritis), but an account of this will be found in another place. Foetal endarteritis has already been referred to. Haemorrhage. — The conditions known to obstetricians as placenta prsevia and accidental haemorrhage {see p. 287) are instances of haemorrhage due to separation of the placenta from the uterine wall, and in both cases the bleeding occurs during labour or in the later months of pregnancy. With these conditions we are not here concerned. The subject is further limited by the exclusion of haemorrhages occurring into the chorion before the formation of the placenta ; these are dealt with in another place. We therefore exclude from consideration haemorrhage into the early ovum, and haemor- rhage from separation of the adult placenta. Haemorrhage into the substance of the placenta (placental apoplexy) occurs in two distinct forms:— («,) Small interstitial haemorrhages. {h) Large effusions. {a) Small interstitial hcemorrhages are not uncommonly found in the form of circumscribed areas of the cut surface of the placenta, which, appear to the naked eye to be almost black, and> are easily distinguished from the healthy placental tissue by the purplish colour and reticulated texture of the latter. Usually they lie neai'er the maternal than the foetal surface,, but they do not show upon the former surface-