320 PROSTATE GLAND from septic infection and suppression of urine bring about the end. The diagnosis in the early stage of the disease should depend entirely upon a careful considera- tion of the symptoms, and a digital examination of the gland through the rectum. This can be done, in the first instance, without the employ- ment of a bougie or sound passed into the urethra. Familiar with the palpation of the normal prostate as regards situation, size, form, and consistence, the surgeon can readily detect by the finger alone a departure from health. On pressing the finger forwards in the middle line, in place of the soft yielding coats of the bladder he finds in hypertrophy of the gland a distinct firmness. Then examining to right and left he can ascertain whether or not the hypertrophy is limited or general, or regular or uniform, whether it is solid or contains fluid. The degree of pain and discomfort which the examination occasions is an important guide. In hypertrophy, unless when there is some rectal complication, the sufi:ering is slight, whereas in enlargement due to inflammation, to malignant disease, or to tuberculous aff'ec- tions, extreme pain will be caused by the pres- sure of the finger. In acute inflammation the introduction of the finger will be resisted, and the parts will be found soft and heated as well as swollen. The prudent surgeon will avoid examination with the bougie as long as possible, unless symptoms of stone in the bladder demand attention, or the history of the case points to cicatricial stricture of the urethra. In the latter condition the obstruction is lower down than in that produced by an enlarged prostate. It is encountered within 7 inches of the meatus, whereas in hypertrophy the obstruction is beyond 7 or 8 inches, and before a sound can reach the bladder the handle must be deeply depressed between the legs of the patient; moreover, cicatricial stricture is most frequently found in the membranous portion of the urethra, and occurs before or during middle life. In vesical calculus the pain is more severe, is in- creased at the end of micturition and by active exercise or jolting, diminishes by rest in bed, and is associated with frequent hsematuria. In calculus the pain and frequent micturition are most troublesome during the day, whereas in hypertrophy of the prostate the urinary diffi- culties are most marked at night. Phosphatic calculus and enlarged prostate frequently coexist, and the use of the sound can alone clear up the diagnosis. Vesical tumours are attended by intermittent and unprovoked attacks of severe hjematuria, and in the early stage of the disease not preceded or accompanied by pain unless clots form and obstruct the escape of urine. Fragments of the tumour may be discovered in the urine. In the later developments of the malady the tumour may come to involve the neck of the bladder and impede the passage ; pain then becomes a prominent symptom. Ex- amination 7Jer rectum usually clears up the diagnosis. In malignant disease the swelling is less regular in form, and occasions the patient much pain. Haematuria becomes profuse and continuous, anaemia becomes marked, and rapid emaciation occurs, and the inguinal lymphatic glands become enlarged. In atony of the bladder retention is the marked symptom, but here the catheter passes without meeting with obstruction, and rectal examination shows that the prostate is not enlarged. This is also observed in paralysis of the bladder, but it is always associated with paralysis of the lower extremities. With respect to treatment one important fact must be accepted, namely, that its success or failure depends upon the disease being recog- nised early and promptly treated. As soon as the enlargement of the prostate prevents the patient from completely emptying his bladder his " catheter life " should begin. The catheter, when used thus early, is a safe and useful in- strument, but when its employment is delayed until secondary changes have taken place in the bladder and kidneys, however careful the surgeon may be, its use is attended with much danger. It is often very difficult to make a patient understand that the habitual use of the catheter is necessary in the early stages. The only troubles he has are frequent micturition, a sense of imperfect relief, and some feeling of weight and tenderness at the neck of the bladder. To relieve this, is he to submit him- self to the regular use of the catheter'? Yes, certainly. Not simply to promote his imme- diate comfort, but rather to save him from the otherwise inevitable distressing complications which follow unrelieved prostatic obstruction. The treatment must be regulated according as the secondary complications are just beginning or are advanced. Take the former instance first. A patient, a man over fifty years of age, consults the surgeon and complains of frequent micturition and imperfect relief after the act; he has some pain occasionally, but it is never distressing. His general health is good, and beyond the urinary symptoms he has little to complain of. After satisfying himself by a rectal examination that the prostate is enlarged, the surgeon must next ascertain if the bladder is being completely emptied, and this can only be done by passing a catheter. To do this safely certain precautions must be taken in the first instance, that is to say, until the amount of the residual urine is known. To begin with, the surgeon should avoid making an examina- tion in his consulting-room. Send the patient home with instructions to go to bed, and when the surgeon visits him the patient is instructed to pass as much urine as he can by natural effort; then, all precautions having been taken to avoid sepsis, a soft gum-elastic catheter is