545 RHEUMATISM, ACUTE for a while a bruise-like stain. In rare in- stances subcutaneous nodules occur which differ considerably in their distribution from rheu- matic nodules, and over which the skin is not discoloured. Whether erythema nodosum is rheumatic is still much disputed, and the question cannot be said to be definitely settled. At present it is perhaps the safest plan to make a compromise, and say some cases are rheumatic and some are not; for, on the one hand, the late Dr. Begbie, Dr. Stephen Mackenzie, Dr. Cheadle, and others have brought forward good evidence of such an occurrence in rheumatism. On the other hand, competent authorities have given good reasons to show that it may occur quite apart from rheumatic fever. Dr. Goodhart and others have looked upon psoriasis as a rheumatic affection, and there seems excellent reason for this belief. Sclero- derma is so rare that it is difficult to prove the association, but Dr. Ball, Sir Dyce Duckworth, Dr. Crocker, and others have brought forward clinical evidence in its favour. Urticaria is believed by many to be a rheu- matic manifestation, and Dr. A. E. Garrod has noted that in some cases a localised oedema may replace an urticarial or erythematous eruption. It is not unlikely that the sudamina of rheumatic fever are rheumatic manifestations. Exophthalmic Goitre.—Dr. Samuel West has drawn attention to the frequency with which a history of rheumatic fever is obtained in these cases. The association is a very re- markable one, of which I have seen several instances. In rare cases inflammation of the thyroid gland has been observed. Conjunctivitis and iritis appear to be rare, and there is doubt whether the latter ever results from rheumatic fever. I would venture to throw in my opinion with those who believe there is a true rheumatic iritis. The Diagnosis of Rheumatic Fever When the diagnosis of rheumatic fever is considered, we are struck with the great change that has taken place in the views upon arthritis. The investigations of bacteriologists have de- monstrated that arthritis is a result of many and various infections : the mention of tubercu- lar, pneumonococcal, streptococcal, staphylococ- cal, and gonococcal arthritis in addition to the rheumatic form is sufficient to exemplify this, and in each case it is admitted that the arthri- tis is a manifestation of the disease, and not the disease itself. No doubt the arthritis in each instance often presents some peculiarity in its course, as does the disease which is the cause, but an attempt to found a diagnosis upon some minute detail of morbid anatomy is no longer relied upon as satisfactory. It is to be hoped that some means will arise by which the diagnosis of rheumatic fever can VOL. VIII be pushed, as it were, a step farther back. Those symptoms which we now look upon as only suspicious will then be recognised as certain indications, and there will result a greater likelihood of forestalling the cardiac complications. The infective view of the dis- ease holds out a promise that this advance will be made, and although it is not likely that the morphological characters of the diplococcus will assist in the diagnosis, some peculiarity in the cultural characteristics may eventually prove of great service. At present the difficulty in the early diag- nosis is to separate rheumatic fever from other acute fevers, and in particular from scarlet fever, influenza, and enteric fever when there is arthritis early in the illness. Acute osteo- myelitis may lead to a serious error. Again, when tonsillitis occurs it is difficult to say whether this is a local affection only, or a manifestation of the more serious disease. It may, indeed, be necessary to suspend judgment for a time, but if all the facts of the illness are carefully weighed the delay is usually short. Later, when arthritis has already developed, a broad survey is taken of the entire case : the age, the family history, the character of the arthritis, the implication of the heart, the oc- currence of subcutaneous nodules. All these and other points as well are studied, and then in most instances the diagnosis is easy. Rheumatoid Arthritis.— In the present state of our knowledge of rheumatoid arthritis, it is difficult to lay down any sure rules for diagnosis, and it is quite probable that some of these cases are really examples of inveterate rheu- matic arthritis. On the other hand, an insidious disease which, according to Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson, is most common in delicate women of gouty inheritance, in which intractable pro- gressive arthritis, often curiously symmetrical, is accompanied by great muscular wasting, and in which functional rather than organic disease of the heart is the rule, points to that form of joint affection which is called rheumatoid arthritis. The weight of the disease falls in these cases upon the joints, the muscles, and the nerves, and, though it is a rule by no means without exception, the heart is spared the severe inflammations of rheumatic fever. Rheumatic Fever and Gout.—I feel that to speak of rheumatic gout is to be guilty of some- thing of a heresy, but presumably there can be no reason why the rheumatic infection should not attack a gouty person. If it be allowed that it is the tissue metabolism in gout which is peculiar, then it is highly probable that the rheumatic infection will be modified by the peculiar soil in which it has gained a foothold, and a condition will result which is rheumatism in a gouty subject. On the other hand, a patient who has suffered from rheumatism in early life may so live in his adult life as to