PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 28 secondary rise in the pulse curve—the predi- crotic wave. In certain cases this may be higher than the primary crest, producing the condition known as the anacrotic pulse. The relatively high intra-arterial pressure here pre- vents the development of a well-marked dicrotic wave. In extreme cases of this kind, when the ar- terial walls are very tense, they may recover after their expansion in an irregular jerky manner, and may give rise to a series of kata- crotic crests producing a polycrotic pulse (Fig. 131, 3). From what has been said it will be seen that a study of the pulse wave gives most valuable information as regards the state of the circula- tion, and the physician constantly makes use of the pulse in diagnosis. Palpation of Pulse.—On placing the finger on the radial artery the points to determine are— \st. The rate of the pulse—i.e. the rate of the heart's action. ItuI. The rhythm of the pulse—i.e. of the heart's action as regards—(1) Strength of the various heats.—Normally the beats differ little from one another in force—since the various heart beats have much the same strength. Respiration has a slight effect which will after- wards be considered {see p. 45). In patho- logical conditions great differences in the force of succeeding pulse waves occur. (2) Time relationship of beats.—Normally the beats follow one another at regular intervals — somewhat shorter during inspiration — somewhat longer during expiration. In pathological conditions great irregularities in this respect may occur. 3?-(Z. The volume of the pulse wave. Some- times the wave is high and greatly expands the artery—sometimes less high and expanding the artery less. The former condition is called a full pulse {puls2is plenus), the latter a small pulse (jmlsus parvus). The fulness of the pulse depends upon two factors:—1st. The average tension in the arteries between the pulse beats. If this is high, the walls of the artery are already somewhat stretched, and therefore the pulse wave expands them only slightly further. On the other hand, if the average pressure is low, the arterial wall is lax, and is readily stretched to a greater extent. 2nd. The force of the heart. To stretch the arterial wall to a large extent requires an actively acting heart throw- ing a sudden lai'ge wave of blood into the arterial system at each systole. The full pulse is well seen after violent exertion, when the heart is active and the peripheral vessels fully dilated, thus allowing a free flow of blood from the arteries and thus keeping the mean arterial pressure low. ■ith. Tension of the pulse. Sometimes the pulse wave is easily obliterated by pressing on the artery—sometimes considerable force is required to prevent it from passing. To test this, two fingers must be placed on the artery. That placed nearer the heart must be pressed more and more firmly on the vessel until the pulse wave is no longer felt by the second finger. In this way the tension or force of the pulse, the maximum systolic pressure in the artery, may be roughly determined. So important, however, is this point, that various instrumental methods for determining it have been devised (see p. 30). The tension of the pulse varies directly with the force of the heart and with the peripheral resistance. The first statement is so obvious as to require no amplification. It is also clear that if the peripheral resistance is low, so that blood can easily be forced out of the arteries into the capillaries, the arterial wall will not be so forcibly expanded as when the resistance to outflow is great. Hence a high-tension pulse is indicative of a strongly acting heart with con- striction of the peripheral vessels. It is well seen during the shivering fit which so frequently pi'ecedes a febrile attack, since at that time the peripheral vessels are constricted and the heart's action excited. The tension of the pulse wave must not be confused with the mean arterial pressure (see p. 29). 5th. The fortn of the pulse wave may be in- vestigated by means of the finger alone or by means of the sphygmograph. The points to be observed are— (1) Does the wave come up suddenly under the finger 1 In the pulsus celer (or active pulse) it does so; in the pulsus tardus, on the other hand, it comes up slowly. The former condition is indicative of an actively acting heart with no great peripheral resistance—the latter indicates that the heart's action is weak in relationship to the arterial blood pressure. (2) Does the wave fall slowly or rapidly 1 Normally the fall should not be so sudden as the ascent. When the aortic valves are not properly closed the descent becomes very rapid. (3) Are there any secondary waves to be observed 1 The only one of these which can be detected by the finger is the dicrotic wave, and this only when it is well marked. When it can be felt, the pulse is said to be dicrotic, and, as before stated, this indicates an actively acting heart with an arterial pressure low relatively to the strength of the ventricles. B. Capillary Pulse Normally there is no pulse in the capillaries. Their thin endothelial wall is not well adapted to bear such an intermittent strain. If, how- ever, the arterioles to a district are freely dilated so that little resistance is offered to the escape of blood from the arteries, and if at the same time the outflow from the capillaries is not pro- portionately increased, intermittent inflow and resistance to outflow are developed, and a pulse