458 RABIES ning on from sixteen to eighteen months. Chantemem knew a case of a patient who had been treated with preventive vaccine, where the incubation lasted twenty-seven months. Certain conditions tend to alter the periods of incubation. It is shorter if there are many bites, and if the face is bitten probably forty- eight days instead of sixty-nine days. Incuba- tion is generally shorter in the case of children, owing to their faces very often being bitten; fifty-seven days is the average under twenty years of age, and sixty-eight days above that age. All excesses, over-eating or drinking, are said to hasten the attacks, but this is a doubtful assertion. All doctors agree in trying to dis- cover during this period of incubation pre- monitory symptoms of the approaching rabies. Some have thought that the scar has a special aspect, it cicatrises slowly, and the wound re- mains swollen. An early theory was that a little worm grew under the tongues of dogs, and this brought on rabies. At a later period doctors thought they discovered under the tongue of the bitten person certain vesicles or lesions which were an undoubted test of rabies. Needless to say, such theories have no foundation in fact. The only symptoms worthy of notice are functional symptoms which often appear, such as formication, pains starting from the wound and rising to the head and heart, cold shiverings of the wounded limb, with anfesthesia and hyper- sesthesia, local paralysis, fibrillary tremors, etc. When it is known that the hydrophobic virus is pursuing its course through the nerves these phenomena are accounted for, and the patient should then undergo very rigorous treatment. II. Prodromic Feriod.—The prodromic period is characterised by mental and bulbar disorders. A psychic depression comes on with extreme melancholia. The patient seeks to be alone, and is haunted by fear of the dreaded malady, and disturbed by nightmares and insomnia. He suffers from general debility, and shuns his ordinary routine of life ; cephalalgia and neur- algia in the seat of the wound are sometimes present. Many persons declare they see ap- paritions that urge them to commit suicide. During this phase there is no excitement or extraordinary quickening of the senses, or desire for inordinate movement. Later, the breathing is disturbed and incessantly interrupted by deep sighs, which contract the diaphragm to its utmost limit; the other respiratory muscles come into play, and the sufferer experiences a sensation of prtecordial agony and thoracic con- striction or spasm ; the shoulders are pushed up. The duration of the phase is difficult to determine; sometimes it may last only two or three days, sometimes several weeks, especially if there has been a complication of nervous disorders at the period of incubation. III. Period of Excitement or Hydrophobia.— This period is characterised by excessive irrita- bility throughout the whole nervous system, specially the region of the medulla. Exaggera- tion of the reflexes explains the occurrence of the spasms, the most characteristic of all being the hydrophobic spasm. The breathing is interrupted by heavy sighs and spasms as if one had suddenly been plunged into a cold bath. Cardiac oppression and dyspnoea develop rapidly. Spasms in the pharynx and larynx cause special difficulty in deglutition and are the true hydrophobia. When the patient desires to drink, the moment he raises the glass to his lips his face is con- vulsed, his eyes fixed, his body trembles, and it is impossible for him to swallow one drop of liquid. After resting a little, being still tormented with thirst, he again tries to drink; the same phenomena recur, and he cannot quench his thirst. The mere sight of water or sound of liquid poured into a glass, the mere thinking of it, or even trying to swallow solids, brings on the spasms. Occasionally certain things are tolerated, such as lumps of ice, and possibly the sufferer may be able to drink in the dark. All the reflexes of the skin, tendons, and oculo-pupillaries are exaggerated; the trembling of the muscles excites myodemia. Any afferent stimulant, i.e. a sound, a breath of air, etc., on the surface of the skin induces convulsions and spasmodic breathing. The eyes are wildly bright, the pupils from time to time either abnormally dilated or contracted. Bright light seems to rouse the patient to paroxysms of fury; he shuns it, and seeks to hide in the dark. The senses of hearing and smell are ab- normally quickened; some smells bring on acute spasms, and the patient suffers from hallucina- tions of sight and hearing. These convulsions increase in frequency and intensity, and develop the real hydrophobic spasm. At times the spasms are convulsive; at times acute mania is developed. The precardiac agitation in- creases ; the patient appears on the point of suffocation; his body quivers with shocks, as in an epileptic fit, or becomes rigid, as in tetanus. The attacks may at first be short and at intervals; they gradually increase in duration and frequency, lasting from fifteen to twenty minutes. The patient is frequently attacked by frenzies of passion; he screams and flings himself about, biting and tearing the bedclothes, and knocking himself against the wall. The voice becomes hoarse and he utters a barking sound, the eyes roll, the saliva dribbles from the mouth; his aspect is most alarming. In spite of these paroxysms the unhappy sufferer vainly tries to avoid biting those near him, he dreads hurting any one. Consciousness returns during the intervals between the attacks, and the patient is over-