486 RECTUM, DISEASES OF THE sibly neuritis of rectal nerves may explain the pain. Persistent Constipation.—The surgical as- pect of this complaint may here be appropriately considered:— (1) Spasm with hypertrophy of sphincters is not at all an uncommon cause of persistent constipation. It may be first induced by an attack of constipation, which it then itself renders persistent. The original attack may arise in many ways, very commonly from irregularity in attending to action of the bowels. The rectum and colon are over-dis- tended, and cannot act forcibly. The faeces become hard and dry, and the muscular tissue of the bowel weakened, perhaps poisoned. Straining, with little or no result, follows. From this, and the irritation of the fseces, spasm and hypertrophy mainly result. In examining such a case it is found that no dilatation of the anus follows upon the patient's bearing down. On introduction of the finger the sphincters are felt to be tight and broad. (2) Congenital narrowness of the anal orifice is another important cause of chronic constipation. (3) The condition may result from atony combined with loss of muscular sense. (4) The third variety of procidentia may tend to severe constipation. (5) Malformation of the uterus and enlarge- ment of the prostate may be the cause, or the constipation may be a reflex result of renal calculus. (6) Irreducible hernia. Treatment.—As, an adjunct to all methods of treatment a copious enema is to be given; a tube should be used not shorter than six inches, with a calibre not less than one-third of an inch, and open at the top. In bad cases a much longer tube is to be employed. To pass this the left forefinger is introduced into the rectum, and the tube slid along it beyond the pro- montory into the sigmoid flexure. Now inject water, simultaneously pushing the tube up the bowel. As much water is to be injected as can be borne without pain. In such cases forcible dilatation of the anus is often necessary for a cure, or in less severe cases daily passage of bougies in increasing size. For the congenital cases forcible dilatation or division of the sphincters, followed by daily use of bougies, is the only satisfactory treatment. In the old or feeble a sj^stematic course of galvanism, one pole in the rectum, and the other moved about over the surface of the abdomen, is to be re- commended. Massage is useful. When the subject of constipation has a lax and pendulous abdomen a suitable belt materially assists in curing the complaint. Glycerine injections are of service only so long as they act as a local irritant. When the rectum becomes accustomed to them they are of no more service than warm water. Impaction and Concretions.—These may follow a single attack of constipation. Their presence is generally marked by the occurrence of diarrhoea. The cause is nearly always loss of power in the muscular coat of the rectum. The accumulation takes place in the pouch just above the internal sphincter. There is always spasm of the sphincter. The symptoms are obscure, and the malady often misinterpreted. A common error is to treat the patient for diarrhoea with tenesmus. Severe pains may be experienced in the right lumbar and left in- guinal regions. Dyspepsia, irritability of temper, nervousness, and despondency, morning vomiting, distaste for food, thirst, and frequent liquid motions without relief, are common symptoms of impaction. On palpating the abdomen tumours may be felt in the transverse colon or sigmoid flexure. The anus is nipple- shaped, and the sphincters are tightly con- tracted, whilst the finger, introduced with difficulty, meets a ball of hardened clayey faeces. When the tumour is high up careful palpation proves it to diff"er in size and shape at diff"erent times, and to be irregularly soft with a doughy feeling. Treatment.—This is begun by thoroughly breaking up the ball of faeces. An anaesthetic is necessary, for the sphincters are to be dilated, and the mass broken up with a lithotomy scoop. Injection of soap and water, oil, and fresh ox- gall will then fetch away enormous quantities of faeces. Care is required that no reaccumul- ation takes place, as it is a considerable time before the rectum recovers power after great distension. Concretions in the bowel are rarer than impactions, and when they exist often give rise to the latter. They are usually formed round some foreign body, and are cylindrical in shape. They consist of animal and vegetable fibres matted round a central nucleus, which may be of various material. Concretions must be re- moved after dilatation of the sphincters under an anaesthetic; they are too tenacious to be broken up like an impaction. Ulceration of the Rectum.—Ulceration extending above, or entirely situated above, the internal sphincter is not very uncommon. In the early stages it is amenable to treatment, but, unfortunately, this is rarely ofl'ered, the symptoms being obscure and insidious, and the suffering at first so slight that the patient deceives himself. The chief varieties are— (1) Tubercular. (2) Dysenteric. (3) Syphilitic. (4) Traumatic. In most cases the history alone indicates the nature of the ulceration, and too much reliance must not be placed upon its character to the touch. Symptoms.—The earliest is morning diarrhoea