PLAGUE 121 few weeks, very few or no plague bacilli may be visible in such films. The organism is aerobic, but it can grow, though less readily, under anaerobic conditions. In cultures the organism grows readily on all the ordinary laboratory media, forming white, moist, transparent, and iridescent colonies on blood serum at 37° C. in twenty-four to forty- eight hours. Upon agar the colonies are small and round, almost translucent by transmitted and white by reflected light; on contact with a platinum needle they exhibit a characteristic, tenacious, slimy quality, and are not very firmly connected with the culture medium (German Plague Commission). In stab cultures in gelatine it grows slowly along the track of the needle, and the medium is not liquefied. A rapid greyish-white surface growth occurs on glycerine agar. A characteristic growth occurs in bouillon, a white granular deposit growing at the bottom and sides of the tubes, the culture fluid appearing clear. The character- istic " stalactite " growth occurs in faintly alkaline or neutral peptone broth, to which a few drops of olive, cocoanut, or linseed oil or ghee have been added, stalactites of growth hanging from the floating oil-drops (Haffkine). The flask must be kept absolutely at rest at a temperature of 25° to 30° C, when after several days this phenomenon gradually takes place. This is the method made use of in the preparation of Hafl'kine's prophylactic. After several sub- cultures this appearance may cease to be produced, but passage through a susceptible animal will restore it, or it may spontaneously reappear (Klein). In sugar-containing media there is no fermen- tation or gas production. In old cultures upon agar and bouillon, involution forms of the organism are found, which show great variety in shape, sometimes a long slender bacillus, segmented and vacuo- lated, at other times swollen and pear-shaped. These forms stain badly. On agar, to which 2 "5 to 3"5 per cent salt solution has been added, Hankin and Leumann found these involution forms appeared in twenty-four hours at 37° C. Viability of the Plague Bacillus. —The bacillus pestis is killed by heating for ten minutes at 62* to 65° C. It loses its virulence by drying, and requires both warmth and moisture for the maintenance of its virulence. The bacillus can, however, grow on media at a low temperature for a long period. Corrosive sublimate, 1 in 1000, kills the organisms instantaneously; carbolic acid and lysol, 1 per cent, in ten minutes; sulphuric acid, 1 in 1000, in five minutes. The German Plague Commission stated that the longest time the bacilli in infected material, such as lint, wadding, etc., remained active was eight days. Sputum from pneumonic cases, kept in a vessel plugged with cotton-wool, was no longer virulent after sixteen days. In ordinary drinking water the bacilli die in three days, in sterilised water in eight days, and in sterilised bilge water in five days. In direct sunlight the organism dies in three or four hours. Diff'erent observers have, however, arrived at very different results in regard to the action of heat, cold, disinfectants, etc., upon the plague bacillus, dependent partly upon the diff'erent climatic conditions under which they were working, and partly also upon the varying degrees of virulence of the bacillus. The Virulence of the Organism.—This varies in culture and in nature very much, being rapidly lost on artificial media. Its virulence can be exalted by passing through certain animals. Gilbruth has found that by inoculat- ing rats and guinea-pigs with cultures of non virulent or slightly virulent plague bacilli mixed with a streptococcus or the diphtheria bacillus, the animal rapidly died with the post- mortem signs of plague. Occurrence of the Bacilhis in the Body.—The plague bacillus is found in the buboes in large quantities, a smear fi'om the cut surface of the bubo or material obtained from a puncture frequently showing large numbers of the bacilli, which are also found in the oedematous fluid surrounding the inflamed gland. The smear on staining with appropriate methods shows pus corpuscles, cell debris, blood corpuscles, and micro-organisms. During life, except in mori- bund cases, it is little use examining smears of blood obtained from the peripheral circulation. During the last twenty-four hours of life, when septicaemia has supervened, blood taken from the ear or finger may show plague bacilli. In pneumonic cases smears from the sputum will generally reveal the bacillus almost in pure culture. It may also be found in tlie papule or pustule which formed the original point of entry of the bacillus into the system. Post-mortem smears from most of the internal organs, particularly the liver and spleen, show the organism. Bacteriological Examination of Suspected Material.—After examination of films of the suspected material, if numerous plague-like bacilli are visible, animals (white rats or guinea- pigs) may be directly inoculated. If these bacilli are scanty, it is preferable to make surface cultivations upon agar, and after twenty- four or thirty-six hours, or after making another subculture if necessary, to inoculate a sus- ceptible animal with some of the growth. Intraperitoneal injection of a guinea-pig will produce death or a dying condition in twenty- four hours, with congestion of the peritoneum and viscera, and a characteristic exudation in the peritoneal cavity, grey, turbid, and viscid in character, and containing numerous plague bacilli (Klein, Public Health, December 1900). Subcutaneous injection into the groin of a