358 PUERPERIUM, PHYSIOLOGY OF pears. The plasmodia are especially congre- gated round the vessels, and no doubt they assist in absorbing the contents of the cells of the vessels which are undergoing the gradual diminution. 2. The Uterine Appenda<ies and Broad Liga- ments.—The outer or pelvic extremity of the broad ligaments and Fallopian tubes being relatively fixed, it follows that, as the uterus enlarges during pregnancy and rises in the abdomen, the tubes come to lie more or less parallel to the vertical axis of the uterus ; and this is also the position in which they are found during the early part of the puerperium. The greater proximity to the uterus which results, and in which the ovaries take part, is further accentuated by the lateral expansion of the lower part of the uterus, which encroaches on the cellular tissue of the lower part of the broad ligaments and separates their anterior and posterior surfaces. The ovarian ligaments become temporarily obliterated, being lost on the lateral surface of the uterus. As the uterus becomes progressively smaller, the layers of each broad ligament fall together, and the Fallopian tube and ovary become carried away from the side of the uterus, till, when involution is completed, the former resumes its transverse direction. The tubes ai'e generally lengthened as well as drawn up during the pregnancy, and the same remark of course applies to the upper border of the broad ligament. If the involution of these structures does not keep pace with that of the uterus, the tube and ligament come to lie rather slack, with the result that the ovaries and tubes easily become prolapsed into the pouch of Douglas. The elongated round ligaments of the uterus also shorten during the puerperium; if they fail to do so rapidly enough, or to a sufficient degree, there is a great predisposition to backward displacement of the uterus. 3. The Vagina.—The vaginal walls, enlarged both in width and in length, remain lax and flaccid at first, but the sigmoid shape of the vaginal canal may be restored in three days (Webster). The anterior and posterior walls of the vagina fall into apposition almost at once in their upper portion ; the lower portion, however, gapes. The posterior wall, being relatively fixed in its upper portion, is generally but little disturbed, except from such laceration as may have occurred in its lower part, and by efficient repair of perineal tears all bad results are avoided. But with the anterior wall it is otherwise. The attachment to the back of the pubes through the medium of the base of the bladder is generally so far loosened that there is nearly always a tendency to some prolapse in the form of cystocele, and this may persist, especially when labours succeed each other rapidly. The pelvic-floor projection is increased for the first few days. Thus Webster found the measurements in his cases to be as follows:— First day, 2 in. ; second, 1| in. ; third, 1| in. ; fourth, 2^ in.; sixth, 1| in.; and on the fifteenth day, 1 in. 4. The Bladder.—After delivery the bladder resumes its normal shape, and when empty it lies below the level of the symphysis pubis. Halliday Groom stated that the bladder may be higher after delivery than it was before. Webster, however, from the study of his frozen sections, considers that this view is wrong, and that the bladder is never higher, but may be lower during the lying-in. After severe or repeated labours the base of the bladder is partially loosened from its pubic attachments, and may bulge down and backwards, in con- junction with the anterior vaginal wall. A considerable measure of the interest which centres round the puerperal bladder is derived from the influence which a full bladder exerts on the height and position of the uterus. The question has been studied in great detail by Groom. According to him, distension of the bladder pushes the uterus up higher and away from the abdominal wall, and also causes some deviation to one side or other. It has been generally taught that this deviation is to the right, but Groom considers that left lateral deviation is more common. The main reason for this is that, as the bladder fills, it generally expands to the right. When the uterine deviation is to the right, he regards it as due to a previous right deviation during pregnancy, to loading of the rectum, or to accidents of position. There is usually some asymmetry of the bladder, even in the non-puerperal condition. According to Barkow, of 35 bladders in the adult female, 4 were symmetrical; there was a minor degree of asymmetry in 10, major in 21. The deviation was to the right in 18 cases, to the left in 8. In those cases where there is rotation of the uterus on its longitudinal axis, the rotation is emphasised by a full bladder. Groom found that there was rotation in 10 out of 40 cases examined. This corresponds with the observation of Borner, who found that out of 64 cases there was no rotation in 50; rotation to the right in 12, and to the left in 2. Haig Ferguson believed that there might be sufficient rotation to bring the left ovary so far forward as to be grasped in the Grede manipulation. According to Webster, the rotation of the uterus is insufficient to bring its transverse diameter into the right oblique diameter of the pelvis, and the ovaries do not take up positions corresponding to the rotation. As to the amount of urine which suffices to cause upward and lateral displacement of the uterus, Pfannkuch says that 100 c.c. (3-5 oz.) of urine raise the uterus about 1 cm. (| in.). Autefage states that 400-600 grammes (14 to 21 oz.) of urine will cause an increase in the real height