129 PLAGUE to its value {Lancet, Aug. 17, 1901). The method is far from being perfected or certain in operation, and much further laboratory re- search is necessary, coupled with experiments on a large scale. It would seem to be necessary to exalt the virulence of the organism locally, by experiment, so that it should become capable of destroying the race of rats which infest the neighbourhood in which it has to be employed. (b) On board ship rats can only be destroyed to any great extent when the vessel is empty. Then by sulphur fumigation of the compart- ments a great proportion of the rats can be destroyed. In Australia there is an inter- colonial agreement under which vessels are compelled to produce a certificate of fumigation given by officials provided for the purpose, and without which they are liable to detention. This method is stated not to unduly interfere with trade, and to be in practice not difficult to secure. This answers some of the great objections to the compulsory destruction of ship rats. It is obvious that the only way to prevent plague rats gaining access to an unin- fected port is to destroy, systematically, rats, healthy or otherwise, on board every ship, as far as possible. It is further necessary, if the ship is to be kept rat free, or as nearly so as possible, to keep the vessel moored some distance off the dock, to hoist in gangways at night, and to provide guards on the ropes and hawsers, and by tarring them, to prevent communication of ship and shore rats. It is of importance to recognise that rats enter and leave ships in cargo such as forage and skeleton crates, even when the vessel is lying out some way from the shore, and cargo is brought off in lighters, so that fumigation of the vessel when empty is necessary at the end of each voyage. The generation of CO2 in the holds of ships has been advocated, but from the lack of pene- trating power of this heavy gas the method has not attained much success. The method of sulphur disinfection which appears to work best in practice is that produced by the Clayton machine (of the Clayton Fire Extinguishing and Ventilation Company), which consists of a special apparatus. It drives the gas produced by the combustion of sulphur into the lower parts of the holds of ships, made as nearly air- tight as possible, while air is extracted from the upper part till the whole of the air space contains about 10 per cent SO2. The air ex- tracted is passed over the heated sulphur in the furnace. The apparatus may be placed on deck or on a barge alongside, so there is no danger of causing a fire in the hold. The quantity of sulphur used is 1 lb. per 400 cubic feet of space, and the cost is about 20s. per 100 tons gross VQgistev {Public Health, March 1902). This " Clayton gas " appears to owe a consider- able amount of its efficiency to the presence of some SO3 which is formed, in addition to the VOL. VIII SO2, by the high temperature in the furnace. The results obtained are vastly superior to those involving the use of pure SO.,. It is stated that less than 5 per cent Clayton gas is as sufficient as 15 per cent pure SO2 in its power of destroying rats and other vermin. The Clayton gas has, it is said, no appreciable action upon coloured materials, food-stuffs, paints, or dry metals, except in a moist atmo- sphere. Further, 8 per cent of this gas is stated to rapidly extinguish burning materials. At Cardiff recently it was found that by this method rats placed in cages at the bottom of the hold were killed almost immediately, and those about 6 feet below the level of the deck within three hours' exposure. As far as dis- infection went, liquid cultures of plague, cholera, and typhoid, soaked in strips of fabric were killed after an exposure of twelve hours, but anthrax and one of three cultures of staphylo- coccus pyogenes aureus remained alive {Lancet, June 21 and July 19, 1902). (4) Measures Employed in excluding Plague from a Country. {a) International Notification.—This is done among the signatories of the Venice Convention of 1897, which includes the leading European powers, but does not include Portugal, Servia, Turkey, and Greece. Notification takes place upon the occurrence of epidemic plague in man, but no steps are taken upon the outbreak of the disease in rats, an omission of considerable importance in the light of our present knowledge. {b) Arrest of Infected Persons and Things.— Under the cholera, yellow fever, and plague order of the L.G.B. (England) 1896, and of the L.G.B. (Scotland) 1898, all vessels from infected ports are boarded by the port M.O.H. on arrival in this country, and the crews and passengers are medically inspected. If all are well on board, or no suspicious case or death has occurred on the voyage, the vessel is then at liberty to land cargo and passengers. If it is infected, the vessel is required to be moored at a certain fixed place, and the cases or "suspects" re- moved to hospital. It is to be noted that a " suspect " cannot be detained longer than two days, unless a definite diagnosis of plague is arrived at. In some cases this is too short a time to arrive at a definite diagnosis. The other persons on the vessel are allowed to land after furnishing their names and addresses, this information being forwarded to the respective sanitary authorities at the destinations. Cloth- ing likely to have been infected, and the in- fected parts of the ship, are disinfected under the orders of the M.O.H. Where a ship is not ascertained or certified to be infected, but has passengers on board who are in a filthy or other- wise unwholesome condition, or has come from an infected place, the M.O.H. may, if in his opinion it is desirable, give a certificate that 9