PULSE, THE 388 perium. At this time an increasing pulse-rate always excites greater concern than a rising temperature, and may be the precursor of septic infection. A high temperature during the puerperium need cause little anxiety unless the pulse becomes extremely soft and rapid. After severe haimorrhage—post-partum, from gastric or duodenal ulcer, etc.—the pulse-rate becomes greatly increased. But after forty- eight hours, or less, if considerable slowing has not occurred, the outlook is uniformly bad. The same remark applies to the frequency of the pulse after abdominal injuries and opera- tions—a falling pulse-rate is always necessary to justify a favourable prognosis, even though the temperature is subnormal. To sum up, then, it may be said that while undue slowing or great rapidity of the pulse may not, in themselves, suggest danger, still when viewed in conjunction with the tempera- ture chart some significance is at times attach- able. But the character of the pulse must always be taken into account. If it becomes more rapid and at the same time softer, it is a sign of approaching death. The ratio of the pulse-rate to the respiration is sometimes suggestive. In pneumonia, accord- ing to the acuteness of the case, the pulse- respiration ratio is greatly altered, and in some cases of catarrhal pneumonia in children the ratio may be 1 to 2, or even 1 to 1-5. Notable perversion of the pulse-respiration ratio may be observed in some cases of fatty heart, where a pulse of 40 may co-exist with a respiration of 20 per minute, or a ratio of 2 : 1. In severe cases of rheumatic pericarditis, accoi-ding to Walshe, the respiration rate may be greatly accelerated even though there be no pulmonary complication. Thus the pulse-respiration ratio may be 136 : 64 or 2-12 :1. Definition of the Pulse The pulse consists in the sensation imparted to the finger when it is made to compress an artery. It is necessary to discuss this definition in some detail, so as to clearly understand the nature of the pulse sensation. The pulse-wave in the arterial system depends on the heart's action — on the left ventricle throwing a quantity of blood into the aorta. Briefly, we may put it in this way. Just before the aortic valves open, the pressure of blood in the left ventricle is the same as that in the aorta. After the aortic valves open, the pres- sure in the aorta gets increased by the systole of the ventricle, which adds several ounces to the bulk of blood already in it. This addition to the aortic contents leads to an increased pressure within the whole arterial tube. The radial artery, flattened under the finger or by the pad of the spliygmograph during the diastole of the heart, alters its shape under the distending force of the extra blood thrown into it by the ventricular systole. The pulse is therefore, essentially, the expression of increased hlood pressure. By flattening the artery somewhat at a time when the resistance to compression is at its lowest, one more readily appreciates the change to the condition where the resistance to compression is at its highest. We purposely flatten the vessel against the underlying bone in order to observe this change of form, because it is then possible to appreciate the pulsation more efficiently. This is not essential, however, for the mere perception of the beat; for sometimes the pulse can be counted by simple contact with the finger. In order to form a clear idea of what really constitutes the pulse, the writer knows of no more useful simile than that suggested by Sir William Broadbent. He says, "Such a pulsation can be felt on a large scale by placing the foot on the imyielding and inelastic leather hose of a fire-engine in action." The comparison is an excellent one, and it serves to contradict the impression that the pulse is due mainly to an expansion of the artery. The extra quantity of blood pumped into the aorta at the systole of the ventricle simply distends some of the larger vessels—any expansion of the smaller arteries is quite insignificant. Again, the pulse, as it is felt in any super- ficial artery, e.g. the radial, is not due to the blood pumped into the aorta which has passed down there, but it is a wave, orginated by the impulse of the left ventricle, that has travelled along the particles of fluid in the artery. This pulse-wave, as it may be called, travels at a rate of 28 to 30 feet per second, while the rate of movement of the blood is only about 10 to 12 inches per second. When a ligature is put upon an artery no pulse is felt beyond that point, but it is distinct up to the place where the artery is obstructed. This experiment enables one to appreciate the dependence of the pulse on the systole of the ventricle alone, when onward movement of the blood is prevented. The pulse is nothing else than the beats of the heart transmitted through the arteries. Factors of the Pulse The main factors concei-ned in the production of the pulse are :— (1) The contraction of the left ventricle. (2) The elasticity of the arterial walls. (3) The resistance in the arterioles. The character of the pulse may be influenced largely by the left ventricle in many ways. Roy and Adami consider that the mode of contraction of the left ventricle is a more important factor in the production of the diff'erent varieties of the pulse than tlie condition of the arterioles. The character of the systolic contraction depends partly upon the condition of the cardiac walls,