315 PROLIFEROUS brane), proliferous catarrh (a stage in the prog- ress of chronic hyperti'ophic catarrh of the middle ear), etc. Pl*Olifica,Cy.—The faculty of reproducing abundantly; the capacity of having large families. PfOlig'erOUS.—Containing an ovum or germ, e.g. the discus proligerus of the Graffian follicle of the ovary. See Generation, Female Organs of {Ovary, Histology). Pro-Maternity Hospital.—A hos- pital or ward in a hospital for the reception of pregnant women suffering from some of the maladies of gestation, e.g. hyperemesis gravid- arum, albuminuria, eclampsia, and hydramnios ; more correctly,pre-maternity hospital. {See Brit. Med. Journ.., I. for 1901, p. 813 ; I. for 1908, p. 65). Prominence or Prominentia.— A projection, elevation, or protuberance ; e.g. the genital prominence (in embryology), the pro- minentia laryngea (or pomum Adami), the pro- minentia spiralis (of the membranous labyrinth), etc. Promontory.—A projection, usually more marked than a prominence ; e.g. the sacral promontory, the promontory of the cochlea, etc. Pronation.—The position of the arm in which the palm of the hand is directed back- wards, and the radius crosses over in front of the ulna. The muscles which by their action throw the arm into this position are called pronators; it is the converse of the position of supination. Pronephros.—The primitive kidney, a tubular body opening into the Wolffian duct ; it is doubtfully represented in the human subject. Pronucleus.—The nucleus of the ovum after maturation is termed the female pronucleus, while the portion of the spermatozoon which enters the ovum in impregnation is named the mnle pronucleus. Pro-oestrum.—in female animals the stage of preparation for the oestrus is termed the pro-oestrum ; it is regarded as corresponding to menstruation in the human female. Proof Spirit. See Alcohol {Spirits). ProotiC—In front of the ear, e.q. the prootic cent7-e of ossification of the temporal bone. Propane.—A hydrocarbon (CgHg) of the paraffin series; methyl-ethyl. Propepsin and Propeptone. See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Gastric.) Prophase.—The name given to the first group of phenomena in mitosis (division of the centrosome, etc.); it is followed by the metaphase, the anaj)hase, and the telophase. Prophylaxis. — Preventive medicine, or the prevention of disease by hygienic and medicinal means. See Cholera Epidemic {Pro- phylaxis) ; Lung, Tuberculosis of {Treatment, Prophylactic); Muscles, Diseases of {Trichini- asis,Prevention); Scurvy, Infantile {Treatment); Smallpox {Treatment, Prevention); Typhoid Fever {Treatment, Prophylaxis); Yellow Fever {Prophylaxis). Propionic Acid.—One of the acetic series of acids, being ethyl-formic acid (CgHgOj), pi'oduced by the oxidation of propyl alcohol; proinone, or diethyl-ketone (CjHjqO), is used as a hypnotic and sedative. Proprietary Foods and Medi- cines.—Patented or trade-marked foods and drugs. See Infant Feeding {Proprietary Foods); Prescribing. Proprioceptive. See Physiology, Neuro-Muscular Mechanism {Action of the Neural Arcs, Receptors, Varieties). ProptOSiS.—Prolapse or protrusion, e.g. proptosis oculi (exophthalmos). See Prolapse. Propylamine.—A volatile oil (C3H9N or C3H-NH.,) obtained from the destructive dis- tillation of animal matters (bones, the cultures of tlie bacteria of fteces); it has been used in the treatment of rheumatism. Pro re nata.—As the emergency arises, or as circumstances call for; the instructions given when a line of treatment or a medicine is prepared in view of the occurrence of symptoms not yet present. See Prescribing. PrOSCOlex. See Parasites {Cestodes, Taenia). Prosector.—One who prepares anatomi- cal dissections for purposes of demonstration to classes of students ; he may be a senior student or a graduate. PrOSencephalOn.—The fore-brain. See Embryology. PrOSOpalg'ia.—Facial pain or neuralgia (Gr. irpoiTunrov, the face, aAyos, pain). See Nerves, Neuralgia {Trigeminal). PrOSOpO-.—In compound words 2}'>'osopo- (Gr. TrpoawTTov, the face) means relating to the face, or facial; e.g. prosojMntritis (inflammation of the frontal sinus), prosopoterata (monstrosities of which the face is chiefly affected), prosopo- dysmorjyhia (facial atrophy), 2^^''^^'^P'^^P(''^^^''^^ (risus sardonicus).