PNEUMONIA—CLINICAL SECTION 185 application of the serum of immunified animals to patients suifering from acute fibrinous pneu- monia the results were in the main promising. They found that while healthy individuals and those suffering from other forms of the disease presented no systemic reaction after the injec- tion of the serum, in 6 cases of pneumonia in which the serum was employed there was a remarkable fall of temperature and slowing of the pulse within the first twelve hours after it was injected. In 4 of these cases the tem- perature fell to normal, but rose again after six hours. In 2 cases it fell to normal, and remained at that point. Early in 1897 Dr. J. W. Washbourn, phys- ician to the London Fever Hospital, reported 2 cases of pneumonia treated with antipneumo- coccic serum. The serum was derived from a pony which had been gradually immunised by injections into the subcutaneous tissue of the shoulder of broth cultivations of the Diplococcus pneumoniae heated to 60° C. for one hour, then of living agar cultivations, and, lastly, of living broth cultivations. In both cases the treat- ment appeared to exert a beneficial effect upon the disease. Washbourn recommends that the serum should be injected into the subcutaneous tissue with strict aseptic precautions. The dose should be 20 cubic centimetres (660 imits). The treatment should be commenced as early as possible in the attack, and should be repeated twice a day until the patient is convalescent. Andrew H. Smith thinks that we must conclude that up to the present the achievements of orrhotherapy in its application to pneumonia can scarcely be said to amount to more than an encouragement to further effort. " No really decisive results have been obtained. In some cases the eifect seems to have been favour- able, but in view of the variable course of pneumonia under all forms of treatment, it is impossible to assign to the injections any positive share in the result." Rational Treatment.—Ever keeping before his mind the idea of the specific nature of pneumonic fever, the object of the physician in treating this disease should be to guide the patient safely back to health through the manifold dangers by which he is encompassed. The bowels should be kept active once or twice a day. The diet should be regulated. Sleep should be secured. Temperatvire may run so continuously high (104° F., or upwards) as to suggest a risk of heart failure, apt to be induced by the action of pyrexia, combined with the profound dis- turbance of the pulmonary circulation caused by the pneumonia. At the same time, we should recollect that the rate of mortality is higher in the presence of relatively low temperatures (under 103° F.) than it is when the thermometer ranges between 104° and 105°. The German doctrine of " Das Heil-fieber " holds good in the case of pneumonia as in that of other continued fevers. Elevation of body temperatiire means a reaction of the body forces against the toxaemia. Cold water, applied externally and taken in- ternally, is the safest of all antipyretics. It lowers temperature without interfering with the production of body-heat (thermogenesis). Sir Lauder Brunton cites, as the most striking example he ever saw of the use of cold, the case of a patient suffering from pneumonia, who was dying from hyperpyrexia. At the suggestion of a Swedish physician who was present. Professor J. Hughes Bennet, of Edin- burgh, under whose care the patient was, applied the wet pack. A big tub of cold water was ordered into the ward. All the bedclothes were pulled off, a sheet was dipped in the water, and the patient was wrapped in it. In a few minutes it was taken off and a second cold sheet was applied. This was repeated again and again, and in an hour the patient lay quiet and comfortable, apparently in an easy slumber. From that time forward the patient went on without a bad symptom, and in due course recovered perfectly. Sponging with vinegar and tepid water (one part in four) is a useful modification of the bathing treatment of pneumonia. Another risk to life arises from collateral oedema of the lungs or brain, and this in a sthenic patient with high fever may be relieved by leeching or venesection, remedies which have been too much neglected of late years. Cyanosis, stupor, transitory paralysis affecting one or other side of the body (hemiplegia), rapid respirations, and a serous frothy expectoration, are indica- tions of collateral hyperiemia, which a moderate venesection—4 to 6 or 8 ounces of blood—would probably at once relieve. The writer can call to mind three or four cases of this kind, in which venesection did good, and quickly. The administration of alcoholic stimulants calls for much circumspection on the part of the physician. Many—probably most—pneumonic patients are better without stimulants, which may tire the heart and congest the liver. The intemperate and the aged require stimulants— the former in moderation, the latter often pleno rivo. It is a good plan to combine stimulants and food, as in egg-flip, wine-whey and egg- water, milk and whisky or brandy. For an emergency champagne plays a useful part. Women and children often bear stimulants badly. Under all circumstances, the ordering of these dangerous remedies should be subject to revision day by day. As secondary, though useful, aids to treat- ment, several local applications may be men- tioned. A single leech applied early in the attack will often relieve the distressing "stitch in the side" of that stage. When the leech falls off the wound may be allowed to bleed into a linseed-meal poultice for a quarter of an