329 PRURIGO AND PRURITUS the patient is highly characteristic. When he is stripped for examination we notice that there is a clustering of the lesions chiefly below the hips, the maximum development being reached below the knees. As the disease ascends it becomes feebler, and the lesions more widely scattered, till they cease on the neck and face. The general type of nutrition is commonly strumous or " lymphatic." The lesion most in evidence is the torn, scabbed, broad, hemi- spherical papule, often intermixed with ecthy- matous pustules; in some cases with patches of infiltrated eczema. Etiology.—The causation of prurigo is un- known. We know of no irritant which can produce it. It commonly appears during in- fancy, but, according to Neisser and Ehlers, it may originate later in life. According to the latter of these authorities the date of onset varies from a few days to twenty-nine years of age, the average of 207 cases being five and a half years. Hebra maintained that prurigo was never congenital; Ehlers, however, believes heredity plays an important part in its caus- ation. "It occurs," says Hebra, "almost ex- clusively in poor subjects and those ill-nourished in childhood, and so most often in foundlings and beggars' children. Those who have enjoyed a good physical education in early youth, and have always been properly fed according to their age, suffer very rarely indeed from prurigo." The prurigo of Hebra has curious geographical relations. In point of frequency Vienna seems to be the headquarters of the disease, and this city is the centre of a mixed population of Austrians, Germans, Tyrol ese, Slavonians, Hungarians, Jews, Italians, etc. It has been noticed that the off'spring of sufferers ■emigrating from Vienna to a country where the conditions of life are easier and more whole- some do but rarely manifest the particular group of symptoms which have been described above. Professor James C. White, of Boston (U.S.A.), has made a careful study of the non- prevalent distribution of " prurigo" in the United States. It appears that prurigo is an almost unknown disease among the American people as a whole, and it is only rarely observed in immigrants from European countries and in their descendants. Armtomy.—Hebra and Simon regarded the elementary lesion of prurigo as a species of vesicle. Kaposi regards it as analogous to the papule of eczema. According to Riehl, they are similar to the papules of urticaria. Vidal considered them to be analogous to the papules of lichen. Wedl and Neumann believe that they are the product of exudation into the cutis. Auspitz and Caspary consider that they are the result of proliferation of the rete Malpighii. Leloir found the prurigo nodule to be associated with a cavity formation in the prickle layer. According to this authority, the cysts are formed by the destruction of prickle cells, and not by exudation. The cysts enlarge, but never invade the horny layer. Kromayer found minute cysts in the horny layer, and accompanied by hypertrophy of the epidermis, with some cell infiltration in the upper part of the cutis. Epidermic cysts have also been noted by Campana and Bonfigli. Prurigo papules a few hours old have been examined by Darier. He found the lesions to consist of an area of colloid degeneration in the epidermis surrounded by signs of acute inflammation, namely, oedema, vesication, and leucocytosis. According to Du Mesnil, the primary anatomical change is the thickening of the epidermis, which leads to the retention of sweat in the sudoriparous ducts, and so to the formation of cysts. These varied and contradictory opinions are of themselves quite sufficient proof that the lesions of prurigo are banal, and have no definite anatomical character. Diagnosis.—Prurigo Hebrse being a rounded and complete symptom group, diagnosis depends on our acquiring a general impression of the disease rather than upon the detection of minute details. The diseases with which it may be confounded are those in which itching is a leading feature. In every supposed case an examination for parasites should be made, for the presence of epizoa alters both the prognosis and the treatment. The distinction between pruritus and prurigo, in the broadest sense of the term, is perhaps more academic than scientific. The essential basis of every case of prurigo is pruritus, that is, a tormenting sense of itching. For convenience' sake we separate the terms, and employ the name " prurigo" where the subjective and objective symptoms are grouped in a certain way. Scabies is distinguished from prurigo by the detection of burrows, or the acari, and also by the history and nature and grouping of the lesions. Chronic eczerna is not accompanied by the degeneration in the nutrition of the integu- ment, nor by the scattered, torn hemispherical papules which are characteristic of prurigo. In chronic pediculosis the lesions are chiefly on the back between the shoulders, and the pig- mentation of the skin is usually marked. The examination of the clothes will generally decide the question. Prognosis.—1. Hebra regarded the disease as hopelessly inevitable. Ehlers found improve- ment after puberty. It seems certain that unless the circumstances of the patient can be greatly improved no hope can be looked for. The disease, however, is subject to remission. During the sunnuer months Hebra noted a con- siderable amelioration of the symptoms, the disease being always worse in winter. 2. Pruritus follovjed by ur'ticarial traujnatides occurring at all periods of life, but more frequently in infants and children.—This will be discussed