PUERPERIUM, PATHOLOGY OF 368 The lying-in chamber should be clean and well ventilated, and should not be in close proxi- mity to a water-closet or drain-pipe. The nurse should see that everything likely to be required has been provided, and that they are absolutely clean ; to this end she should scrub thoroughly all basins, jugs, bed-pans, and other utensils, and she should provide an ample supply of pure water by boiling it for at least half an hour and preserving it in clean jugs, covered with towels. Water is a generally acknowledged source of danger, and the addition of antiseptics in the amount used for uterine douching is not sufficient to sterilise it; though they are better than nothing in an emergency. The patient herself should adopt the same precautions, as regards cleanliness, as her atten- dants, especially frequent warm baths during pregnancy ; but during labour they are not ad- visable, because the water which contains the dirt removed from the surface usually enters the vagina, and cases of fever, apparently due to this cause, have been reported. The external genitals should, however, always be most care- fully cleansed and disinfected ; formerly vaginal douches were used as a routine, and some ob- stetricians still employ and recommend them, especially French authorities. At the recent International Congress in Paris, Doleris expressed himself strongly in their favour, but the majority of those who have carefully studied the question have abandoned them as more frequently a cause of harm than good (Runge, Leopold, Kronig, Menge). The argument in their favour is, that infective matter is occasionally found in the genital canal. Against this, however, it is urged that such matter very rarely does harm, that the douche is inefficient for its removal, and harmful because it inhibits the normal bacteri- cidal powers of the vagina, washes away the mucus, and so renders labour more difficult and the vagina more liable to injury, and it may carry infective matter into the cervix and uterus. The strongest argument is, however, the fact that the experience of the vast majority of ob- servers has shown that patients do much better who have not been douched. The management of labour, and especially of the third stage, is of the utmost importance, since the retention of portions of the placenta and membranes is a fruitful source of putrefaction, with its conse- quent dangers, saprsemic intoxication and py- a3mia. {See " Labour," vol. v.) Treatment.—Treatment is both local and general; so long as the disease has not passed beyond the uterus, local treatment is of the utmost importance. Puerperal ulcers were formerly treated very actively—cauterised with chloride of zinc or strong perchloride of iron ; but this is unnecessary in ordinary local infec- tions, and useless in systemic poisoning : they are best treated by simple cleanliness, and dust- ino- with iodoform, boric acid, or salicylic acid and starch. When the lochia are offensive a vaginal douche is employed, and if the fever continues the uterus should be washed out. This is a measure not unattended with danger, and requires certain precautions. The instru- ment employed should be a douche, either a can or Hegar's syphon douche, which can be carried in the obstetrician's bag, but never a Higginson's syringe. The instruments should be absolutely clean, and the water sterilised by boiling for half an hour, and the antiseptic employed should not be a strong poison like corrosive sublimate. Creolin, lysol, or chinosol are perhaps the most suitable ; half an ounce of creolin in a gallon of water is an admirable antiseptic solution. The patient should be placed upon her back, a posi- tion for many reasons to be pi'eferred to the ordinary lateral obstetric position, because there is less danger of the fluid passing into the Fal- lopian tubes : the uterus is situated lower, and there is less risk of the tube being contaminated during its passage through the vagina ; and also because the operator can see the patient's face, and should the fluid enter the veins he can at once discontinue the process on the first symptom of collapse. The vulva and surrounding parts are first thoroughly cleansed, then the vagina is douched out, a clean glass nozzle being em- ployed, and, in the absence of wounds or ulcers, the surface gently rubbed with two fingers. After this the hands are again disinfected, and a long glass tube, or large Bozeman's catheter, is carefully guided along two fingers, which protect it from touching the vaginal walls, into the uterus, which is then thoroughly douched out. The advantages of uterine douching, though generally acknowledged, are not, however, universally admitted, and Schrader condemns it under all circumstances. The cases in which it is followed by improvement are, such authorities contend, without exception cases of putrefaction, which usually recover without local treatment, whilst the douche might be the means of con- veying septic matter from without, or spreading the germs already present, and, by causing uterine contractions, displace the thrombi in the lymphatics and so favour systemic poison- ing. Many other accidents have followed its use, such as reopening of wounds already closed, which offer fresh channels for infection ; dis- placement of thrombi in the veins, permitting the entrance of fluid or air; and even perforation of the uterine wall, followed by a fatal peri- tonitis. But since, on the other hand, simple sapr£emic intoxication may prove fatal, the majority of obstetricians employ intra-uterine douches in all cases where the disease is still limited to the uterus and vagina ; but they are agreed as to the absolute necessity for thorough asepsis and most gentle manipulation ; and also that they should never be employed after peri- tonitis or parametritis has set in. Should there be any suspicion of retained membranes or por-