478 RECTUM, DISEASES OF THE surface seems to warrant, or pus oozes up ou pressure, search diligently for the sinus. Burrowing has certainly commenced. Patients should be encouraged to state when they have pain in or near a healing fistula; this may lead to early detection of small abscess or sinus. The length of time that a recumbent posture is to be maintained depends upon the general health and extent of the wounds. Patients need not be kept long in bed, but should be made to recline upon a sofa. Never, if it can be avoided, operate upon a fistula that is acutely inflamed. A free dependent opening only should be made, and the patient rested till all inflammation has subsided. Incontinence of Fceces ; Causes and Treatment. —Incontinence may result from injudicious operation, even on ordinary fistulse, or from extensive fistulfe. This distressing symptom is associated with three conditions of sphincter:— (1) Too deep a cut has been made through both sphincters, and the wound in healing has left a deep sulcus. (2) The sphincter has been divided in two places, and weak splicing has ensued, the muscles being divided obliquely instead of at right angles to their fibres. Cicatrices are seen and felt, one each side of the bowel. (3) In women the anal sphincter has a weak point in the perineum, owing to decussation with fibres of the sphincter vagiuEe. When this point is incised loss of power results. In these cases little is found on examination, except that the scar shows the fistula to have been perineal. A single operation may succeed in curing any of these conditions, but many may be necessary, and months may elapse before a satisfactory result is obtained. In most cases, however, free application of the rectal cautery is to be employed. The external and internal sphincters are deeply burned in several places, the old scars cauterised, and the tissue just around the anus burned into. The wounds are to be dressed with wool saturated in olive oil. After- treatment needs great care, daily passage of the finger keeping contraction within due bounds, and soft motions being habitually procured. In the condition first described, where there is a sulcus, the old scar tissue may be cut away, and the wound luiited by catgut sutures. In the second condition the cautery affords the only hope. In the third condition Lawson Tait's operation on the perineum may be performed, and the flaps turned into the rectum. Fistula in conjunction with phthisis requires special consideration, particularly as regards the question of operation. Tubercular fistulae are commonly distinguished by the following attributes:— (1) Fistula begins with a chronic abscess, which is frequently painless ; (2) The external opening is large, ragged, and irregular in form; (3) The internal opening is large; (4) The sinuses are soft, and felt as gutters or depressions below the skin ; (5) The skin around the external opening is blue and imhealthy looking ; (6) Discharge is thin and watery, and tubercle bacilli may be found in it ; (7) The buttocks are thin, and the ischio- rectal fossa depressed; (8) There is an excessive amount of hair, which is long and fine; (9) The sphincters are weak, little resistance being offered to the introduction of a finger. Fistula with some or all of these characteristics may be met with in persons:— (1) The subjects of active tuberculosis; (2) Who have had haemoptysis, and still have remains of a cavity or consolidation of apices; (3) Who have the family history of phthisis, but no direct evidence in themselves, except the fistula. In the first class only such operation as is necessary to relieve pain will be recommended ; in the second, operation with very careful limita- tion of incision ; and in the third, an early and free operation to rid the patient from a possible source of future infection. These patients are generally better subjects for chloroform than for ether. After operation these patients should not be kept strictly on the back or side, as usually after an operation for fistula. They should be allowed up, or in a sitting position, even from the day after operation. Careful feeding, drug, and climatic treatment will help to a favourable result. HAEMORRHOIDS.—Piles are generally described as being— (1) Internal or "bleeding"; (2) External or " blind " ; and the distinction is as a rule well marked, although internal hsemorrhoids may so prolapse as to be mostly external, and external piles may encroach upon the mucous membrane within the anus. External piles are the less important. They are of two kinds: the first being hypertrophies of skin, exaggerations of the surface of the anus; and the second, venous tumours rounded or elongated, situated at the verge of the anus, or passing up into the bowel. External piles cannot be reduced within the anus. Internal piles, if protruded, can be so reduced by gentle pressure, and thus in doubtful cases a diagnosis may be made as to which of the two kinds, or whether both are present. When both kinds are present the case must be regarded as one of internal piles. External hjemorrhoids are so common that few persons reach middle age without suff"ering from them in greater or less degi'ee. So great a variety of causes helps to their formation that no class of persons is exempt, but those suffer