PULSE, THE 398 venous influence, but we shall refer to the matter again under the section of pulse and respiration. Digital Sphygmographs.—It must be borne in mind, however, that when the pulse is felt in the usual way, or when the pad of the sphygmo- graph is applied over its site, a much more Fig. 18.—Tracing from the pulp of the middle finser (Dudgeon's sphygmograph) (identical with radial sphygmogram). complex set of movements is obtained than is generally recognised. Thus the tracing is more than a diagram of the changes of blood pressure within the artery. It is perhaps more correctly to be regarded as a representation of a com- municated pulsation from the vessel to the systole, and there is a consequent "sucking-in" of the tissues adjacent to it. This is well shown in the tracing. Fig. 19, where the pad of the sphygmograph was placed alongside a large radial artery. The lower tracing in the figure shows that the needle of the instrument instead of being shot upwards at the time of systole, as Fig. 19.—The upper tracing was taken from the radial artery in the usual manner; the lower one was taken with the pad of the sphygmograph lying alongside the artery. The lower tracing is an inverted sphyg- mogram. tissues and liquids surrounding it. Thus the writer has taken tracings from the pulp of the middle finger by means of Dudgeon's sphygmo- graph, which exhibit all the features of an ordinary radial sphygmogram {see Fig. 18). Digital sphygmographs which record the pulsa- tions of the vessels of the nail bed have been in use during the last few years, and Waller has recently described a very useful instrument of this kind under the name of the "onycho- graph." 77ie Inverted Sp-ihygmogram.—It must not be forgotten also that there is some displacement of the whole artery in its bed at each systole of the ventricle. Allen Thomson believed this locomotion of the artery to be produced by the distension and elongation of the larger vessels near the heart, and in many persons the radial artery may be seen to move under the skin. These displacements are most easily seen in atheromatous arteries at their curvatures, and where they adhere to surrounding tissues. There is sometimes a considerable movement of the radial artery at the time of the ventricular Fig. 20.—Systolic wave as a single summit—blood pressure relatively low. in the upper tracing, is drawn backwards, thus forming an inverted diagram of the normal curve. Mackenzie figured similar tracings to show the effects of the sudden movement of the carotid artery in the neck. General Information afforded by a Sphygmo- gram.—From a good sphygmogram we obtain information on many points in connection with the heart and circula- tion : (1) we ascertain the rate and rhythm of the heart; (2) we become acquainted with certain events occur- ring during the cardiac systole; (3) we get some indication of the state of the blood pressure; (4) we can form some idea of the state of the arterial walls. We can only judge the height of the blood pressure in a general way from the form of the pulse-curve. When the systolic wave appears as a single summit, we may usually assume that the blood pressure is relatively low (Fig. 20). When a large systolic wave is divided by a notch, and the second summit is large and well sustained, the pressure in the vessels is gener- ally high, but is not always so in people over sixty years of age (Fig. 21). Fig. 21.—Large divided systolic wave, with second summit well sustained—blood pressure high. Some Features of the Sphygmogram due to Instrumental Defect.—There are certain well- marked features in many tracings made with Dudgeon's sphygmograph which are undoubtedly due to a defect in the instrument. It is well to recognise this, and defects thus caused are not altogether undesirable so long as their undue exaggeration is avoided. With care it is