KHEUMATISM, ACUTE 539 and the peculiar vital chemistry of the human tissues, are as yet unknown. The Morbid Anatomy. — In studying the morbid anatomy of rheumatic fever we are struck by the numerous local lesions that are found, and the disease in this respect is in marked contrast to diphtheria, in which the local lesions are but few. In these positions the diplococci are rapidly destroyed by the cells of the living tissues, but while present in these lesions they give rise to a condition of inflam- mation which often leaves the tissues more or less damaged. These various inflammations in rheumatic fever rarely suppurate, but when the tissue changes are severe the process of recovery is incomplete, and sclerosis and consequent deformity of such delicate structures as the cardiac valves will result. The recovery from arthritis is usually com- plete, and nodules may entirely disappear, but inflammation of the valves and pericardium re- peatedly ends in deformity of the valve segments and adhesion of the pericardium. So also in some cases the joints do not completely recover, and the nodules may persist for many months. We are prepared—since the local changes are the result of the invasion of the diplococcus— to find that the various lesions of rheumatism are all of the same type, when di;e allowance has been made for the anatomical peculiarities of the various tissues. If, for example, rheumatic valvulitis is chosen to illustrate those changes, they will be found to be the following :—Microscopic.—When the diplococcus gains access to the valve, the con- nective tissue immediately beneath the endo- cardium swells, and the fibres become indistinct and separated by a slight exudation. Thus the endocardium at that point is raised above the general surface of the valve. Later the connective tissue cells proliferate, the endothelial lining is destroyed, the destructive process advances to the stage of necrosis, and numerous leucocytes will be found in the damaged tissues. Thus the vegetation is formed, and usually there are a series of these fringing the edge of the segments of the valve. To these vegetations fibrin often becomes attached, but this deposit of fibrin is no essential factor in their formation. Repair commences by invasion of the necrotic part of the granulation by fibroblasts, and thus eventually sclerosis and deformity of the valve result. It is an important fact that by the time the vegetation is completely formed most of the organisms are destroyed by the activity of the tissue cells and leucocytes. The macroscopic appearances of rheumatic valvulitis vary with the stages of the process. In the acute stage, if the valve was previously uninjured, minute reddish pink elevations are visible, and the valve itself is swollen. When the process is less acute and the valve damaged by earlier attacks, minute yellow, somewdiat translucent excrescences are formed. After re- peated attacks of inflammation the sclerosis of the segments of the valve which results is only too well recognised. The mitral valve is the most frequently, and also the most extensively injured. Next in order comes the aortic valve, then the tricuspid, which in childhood is affected more often than is generally thought, and, finally, though rarely, even the pulmonary valve may show slight beading. The nodule passes through a like series of changes; under the microscope in an early nodule the zones of necrosis, cell proliferation, and swollen connective tissue can be readily traced, and in the interstices of the swollen connective tissue the diplococci may be demon- strated. In their macroscopic appearance these nodules resemble a minute sago grain, but the more carefully an attempt is made to dissect them from the tissues, the more surely do they disappear under the knife, for the exuda- tion within them is pressed out, and scarcely a trace of the nodule can then be seen. They are not therefore in their characteristic stage fibrous nodules. When the diplococci attack the more vascular structures, such as the pericardium or joint capsules, they locate themselves in the delicate areolar tissue immediately beneath the endo- thelial lining. Great dilatation and often rup- ture of the capillary blood-vessels result, and there is the same cell proliferation, leucocytic invasion, and connective tissue swelling as already described. The exudations into the pericardial sac or joint cavities are at first clear or blood-stained, and when the endothelium is intact are usually sterile. This latter fact is also confirmed by experiment, which is import- ant, for investigators have experienced difficulty in isolating the organism from these clear effusions. Later the fluid becomes more opaque and fibrino-cellular, and in some cases layers of the plastic exudation are deposited upon the inner surface of the pericardium and synovial mem- brane. A film of these later exudations will show under the microscope numerous leucocytes, which for the most part stain well with aniline dyes and are not necrotic. The interstitial tissue between the muscle bundles in the neighbourhood of the inflamed joints is also the seat of similar changes. The tendon sheaths may suffer in exactly the same way, and the morbid changes in the pleura are also of the same character. The macroscopic appearances of the peri- cardium, pleura, and joint capsules are much alike, although, since it is the virulent rheu- matism in which the pericardial tissues are especially attacked, the changes in that structure are usually moi-e definite. In the early stage there is swelling, the tissues on section look gelatinous, and where the blood-vessels are