347 PUDENDA, ULCERATING GRANULOMA OF THE amongst the Melanesians from the New Hebrides and Solomon Islands. It was there a chronic disease, unaffected by antisyphilitic treatment, and was locally contagious, or at least affecting opposed surfaces. The present writer met with probably a dozen cases in Darfour and in the Bahr-el-Gliazal district of Central Africa. Dr. J. H. Conyers, who has had experience on the Gold Coast of West Africa, never saw the disease there. Dr. Kennard divides the affection into three classes—specific, tubercular, and malig- nant—but it is probable that these are only phases of the same disease. The disease attacks individuals from adolescence to old age. It is rarely, if ever, cured, and specific treatment has no influence upon its progress, although it may be useful in cases which are complicated with syphilis. Fifty years ago the disease seems to have been exceedingly rare. There is no evidence that this affection is hereditary. The disease usually commences as a simple pimple situated somewhere in the groin or behind the scrotum, or somewhere on the genitals. There is great itching, and buboes form. The patients scratch themselves, and the tissues break down and discharge a foul- smelling purulent fluid. An ulcer rapidly forms, having abrupt edges which are more or less indurated. There is little or no congestion of the surrounding skin. The affection may either begin on the skin or the mucous mem- brane ; it does not affect the glands, bones, or subjacent tissue, but spreads in the dermal and siib-dermal tissue. It has a marked preference for the neighbourhood of the hair follicles and for the sebaceous and sudoriferous glands, at any rate in its advanced condition. The disease does not markedly affect the general health, and is not associated with anyparticular diathesis. Microscopically the disease appears to be allied to lupus erythematosus, but there is a want of symmetry, and it is more superficial in character than that disease. It spreads very slowly—for instance, in a case which was seen in 1890 it was situated behind the scrotum, in 1892 it had spread round the anus, and in 1896 it had extended backwards to the coccyx. No characteristic micro-organisms have been found in connection with this affection, simply micrococci staining deeply by Gram's and Loffler's methods. The nodules which exist on the margins of the ulcers are composed of round cells with large but usually badly stained nuclei contained in a delicate reticulum of fibrous tissue, which is covered by epithelium. The nodules merge gradually into a subjacent, dense, fibrous stroma, in which small masses of similar rounded cells are embedded. The growths are very vascular and the capillaries much dilated, but there are no haemorrhages (J. Galloway). Treatment. — This is very unsatisfactory. Tonics if necessary, but, as before mentioned. specific treatment is without effect. The local treatment consists of great cleanliness and the application of caustics. Salicylic acid, 30 or 40 grs. to creasote ointment 1 oz., may be used. This causes severe pain for one or two hours, but it does not cure the patient, as, if the treatment is stopped, the ulceration proceeds. Scraping the diseased part with a Volkmann's spoon is sometimes useful, but the only chance of cure is the free excision of the initial pimple. Usually the disease has progressed too far for this when the patient comes^under observation. Pudendum. — The external genital organs of the human female (Lat. pudere, to make ashamed); it is generally used in its plural form, pudenda {q.v.). PudiC.—Relating to the pudenda, e.g. the pmdic artery and the pudic nerve. Pueblo. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts (^American). Puei*.—A mixture employed in leather- making ; it consists of water, pigeon's manure, and dog's dung, and in it the pelts are im- mersed ; it may constitute a nuisance and re- quire to be remedied. PueriCUlture.—The branch of preven- tive medicine which deals with the procreation of healthy and well-formed children (Lat. ^■wer, a boy, cultiira, cultivating), especially by caring for the health of the mother during pregnancy; antenatal therapeutics. Puerpera,.—A recently delivered woman, or, less often, a woman in labour. See PUERPERIUM. Puerpera.1.-—Relating to or occurring in the puerperium, e.g. puerperal sepsis, puerperal insanity, etc. See Puerperium, Pathology op THE. Puerperium.—This subject is described in the following sections :— Physiology of 348 Pathology— I. Puerperal Infection . . 362 II. Affections of Breasts and Nipples 369 III. Certain General Conditions, Fever in the Puerperium, Sudden Death, Hsematoma, etc. . .374 IV. Puerperal Insanities . 376 V. Deciduoma Malignum 380 See also Brain, Affections of Blood- vessels (GerehraL Embolism and Thrombosis, Causes); Glycosuria {Puerperal Glycosuria or Lactosuria) ; Lung, Tuberculosis of {Com- plications, Puerperium); Lungs, Vascular Disorders {Pulmonary Embolism, Causes); Miliaria {Miliaria Crystalline in Puerperal Fever); Nephritis {Chronic); Nerves, Multiple