73 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES tion is so much greater. Of the various factors increasing sweat secretion, heat is probably the most important. Since the temperature of the skin is governed by the state of the cutaneous vessels and the amount of sweat produced by the state of the sweat glands, and since both of these are under the control of the nervous system, the elimination of heat from the skin is presided over by a nervous mechanism. B. Respiratory Passages.—By conduction and radiation and by evaporation from the respiratory passages, about 10 per cent of the heat is got rid of in man. In the dog and some other animals, the proportion of heat eliminated in this way is considerably greater. C. Urine and Faeces. — Since these are warmer than the surrounding air, a certain amount of heat is lost through them. The amount is small—something less than 2 per cent of the whole. Temperature.—In all higher animals, the loss of heat and the production of heat are so nicely balanced that the temperature of the body remains fairly constant under all conditions. If an extra amount of heat is produced, say in muscular exercise, it is at once eliminated by the skin; and, if the body is exposed to a low temperature, loss of heat is rapidly checked by conti-action of the cutaneous vessels and diminished activity of the sweat glands. Since heat is constantly being given off, the temperature at the surface of the body is always lower than the temperature in the interior. The temperature of the rectum may be taken as a measure of the internal temperature. The mean daily temperature of a healthy under abnormal conditions the balance is fre- quently upset. Thus severe muscular work causes a temporary rise of temperature, because heat elimination does not quite keep pace with heat production. Exposure to very high tem- peratures may cause a slight rise of temperature, 5 e 7 S 9 10 II Milt.' 5 6 7 ft 9 To U V FIG. Rectum Axilla Mouth 37-2 36-9 36-87 °F. 98-96 98-45 98-36 But the temperature varies throughout the course of life. °C. Infant . . .37-5 Under 25 years. . 37-2 About 40 . . .37-1 Old Age . . . 37-2 to 37-5 It also varies throughout the course of the twenty-four hours, and since this is a matter of great importance in medicine, it has been very carefully studied by many observers. The difference is not more than 1° C. It is lowest in the early morning and highest in the after- noon (Fig. 167). Under all normal conditions the temperature of man undergoes only small variations, because the balance between production of heat and elimination of heat is so well maintained. But 167.—Chart of the daily variation of temperature in the normal human subject in degrees centigrade. (Eichet.) while exposure to excessive cold may cause a slight fall; but, unless, in the case of those unable to use their muscles—e.g. in those suffer- ing from alcoholic poisoning—the change is small. Although the normal variation of temperature is so small, life may be sustained when the temperature falls for a time to about 25° C, or rises to nearly 43° C. Cases are recorded in which it has even risen to 46-6° C. without death supervening. While the higher "warm-blooded animals," mammals and birds, maintain a constant tem- perature, the lower vertebrates, " cold-blooded animals," reptiles, amphibia, and fishes, do not do so, and their temperature varies with that of the surrounding medium. But even in mammals the mechanism for the regulation of temperature is not absolutely perfect, and in every species of animal there is a limit to the power of adjustment. Mammals which hibernate become for the time " cold-blooded animals," and lose their power of regiilating their temperature. The regulation of temperature may be effected either by modifying heat production, or by altering the rate of elimination. Heat production is voluntarily modified when muscular exercise is taken during exposure to cold, and involuntary when muscles are set in action by a shivering fit. There is, however, no evidence of the existence of a special nervous mechanism presiding over heat production in muscle. But it is not so much by changes in the rate of heat production, as by alteration in heat