170 PNEUMONIA—CLINICAL SECTION ill on the fourth day of her husband's illness, their son-in-law falling sick five days later; all three cases proved fatal. In December 1899 the writer met with a somewhat similar instance —a sister falling ill on the fourth or fifth day of her brother's attack, and both dying of epi- demic pneumonia. The following instructive series of cases was reported in Lyon medical, April 28, 1889:—A shopkeeper's child was convalescing from pneu- monia when a servant boy developed the disease. He was removed to hospital, another boy taking his place, wearing the same suit of livery and sleeping in the same bed as his predecessor. Two days afterwards he sickened with pneu- monia. A third boy was now engaged. He slept for two nights with the second boy, and thirty hours later fell ill of acute pneumonia. It is interesting to observe that the life-history of the Diplococcus pneumonia; of Fraenkel would almost preclude an incubation stage of more than five or six days at the outside. The virulence of this specific micro-organism, at all events when cultivated in solid media, is spent at the end of seven days, curiously enough the very period within which acute pneumonia is limited by its sharp and critical termination. Clinical Features In a large number of cases the prodromata and early symptoms of pneumonia differ in no way from those of any other infective fever. They are referable to the nervous system rather than to the lungs, and so betoken a general or constitutional poisoning as well as a mere local pulmonary infection. In such instances the actual outburst of pneumonic fever is preceded by hours, or even days, of impaired health, signalised by languor, indigestion, loss of appetite and constipation, headache and dull pains in various parts of the body, alternate chills and flushes of heat, to- gether with a general disinclination to work or amusement. To convey an idea of this vague departure from health the expressive though clumsy word " all-overishness " has been coined, but the state is better described by the more subtle French term " malaise." Andral relates a case in which the general symptoms of head- ache, debility, dulness of the intellectual faculties, flushed face, injected eyes, and frequent pulse appeared at least six days before the physical signs of pneumonia could be detected. Not infrequently the onset of the disease may be stormy in its suddenness and impetuosity. A violent shivering fit, a racking headache and delirium, nausea and vomiting, a thickly coated tongue and foul breath, may, in such a case, suggest an attack of epidemic meningitis, or typhus, or acute gastritis, or enteric fever. All at once physical signs of a rapidly advancing consolidation of the lung—probably of the right apex—declare themselves, the general state of the patient simultaneously improves, and the attack may henceforth run a normal course. But in more typical instances pneumonia is ushered in with sharp lancinating chest-pain, quickened, shallow breathing, cough, which is either constant or paroxysmal, hard and dry, as well as suppressed because of the pain it causes. This pain, when acute, is certainly often due to pleuritis, but when dull it may also indicate intense hypersemia of the portion of lung which is the destined battlefield of the attack. Its usual situation is a limited area (which is also tender on pressure) near either nipple, but sometimes it is felt in the side (infra-axillary region), or in either hypochon- drium, or even in the abdomen. In the last- named case it is very misleading, suggesting a gastric hepatitis or intestinal lesion rather than a lung attack. After a couple of days the pain subsides or disappears, as the movements of the affected lung gradually lessen, owing to con- solidation due to coagulation of the exudation in the air cells. Within the first few hours of the attack a very perceptible diff'erence of movement on the affected and sound sides of the chest may be observed. The expansion lessens—it may be to vanishing point—on the affected side, whereas it increases considerably on the other, the sound lung working more and more energetically in response to the strain put upon it through the maiming of its fellow. Many cases of acute pneumonia begin with a shivering tit or chills, which imply that toxins have already reached the central nervous system by absorption from microbic growth in the pulmonary air cells. The more intense this initial rigor the more deadly the poisoning. A sense of profound depression is apt to follow the shivering fit, or other nervous symptoms, such as headache, delirium, in children even convulsions or vomiting, with constipation or diarrhoea, quickly declare themselves. Another nerve symptom is the development of crops of herpes on or near the lips, the nostrils, the cheeks, the chin, or the jaws—this herpes labialis or faciei consists of groups of vesicles on a more or less hypersemic base. The contents of the vesicles are at first serous, but may become purulent. They afterwards dry up and crust or scab, and the scabs finally fall off without leaving a scar. The development of herpes is usually looked upon as a favourable sign. It occurs in about two-thirds of the cases of acute pneumonia, but its apparent diagnostic value is minimised by its common appearance in simple fevers and ordinary catarrhal attacks. Geissler has estimated the mortality in herpetic cases at 9'3 per cent, in non-herpetic cases at 29"3 per cent. The aspect of a patient in the early stage of pneumonia is flushed and feverish, often anxious. A deep hectic blush settles upon one or other