PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—INTRA-UTERINE DISEASES, DEATH OF FCETUS 257 foetus. The healthy placenta may enable a diseased foetus long to survive, but when it is itself the seat of disease it is very often the cause of foetal death or of premature delivery. In order, therefore, to arrive at the cause of intra-uterine death it is very important to have the placenta for examination. While the placenta and the intra-uterine environment serve to account for some of the peculiarities of foetal maladies they leave unexplained not a few. Many of these are due to the projection into foetal pathology of the results of embryonic pathology. There is good reason for believing that malformations and monstrosities are the product of morbid agencies acting on the organism during the embryonic period, and the foetus may therefore come into its epoch of intra-uterine existence with pathological states in it which are really embryonic. These must necessarily modify the morbid conditions which are superposed during the foetal period, and foetal diseases are affected in their manifestations by pre-existing malformations. Further, it is more than probable that the malformations themselves are altered in some respects by the diseases which supervene. It is, therefore, not to be wondered at that foetal maladies have certain peculiarities which serve to distinguish them from the diseases of post-natal life. The diagnosis of foetal diseases while the foetus affected by them is still in utero is an exceedingly difficult matter; even the Rdntgen rays have not as yet done much to pierce the obscurity which surrounds foetal morbid pro- cesses, for the ossification of the unborn infant is incomplete, and the mother's pelvis throws a dark shadow. Some little progress has, how- ever, been made in this exceedingly difficult field of clinical investigation. Since the infant is in close relation to the chemical and vital processes going on in the body of its mother, a full consideration of all these processes, as they show themselves in the general maternal health, cannot fail to throw some light upon the general foetal health. The better the state of health of both parents the more likely it will be that the progeny will pass through intra-uterine life without illnesses. It is necessary, therefore, in the first place, to take into account the past history of the parents ; especially is it important to investigate the past obstetrical history of the mother, for foetal diseases often show a curious tendency to repeat themselves in consecutive pregnancies. This repeating tendency has been noted in general foetal dropsy and in foetal ichthyosis, and it is, of course, evident in foetal syphilis. It may be mentioned in passing that the same phenomenon has been remarked in teratology; women, who may in consequence be called monstriparse, having been known to give birth to several monstrosities in succession. The influence of the father sometimes makes itself felt, for cases are on record in which a VOL. VIII woman has had healthy children by a first husband, and dropsical or ichthyotic ones by a second, her own health having continued appar- ently unaltered. It is necessary also to inquire into the symptomatology of pregnancy, for ab- normal intra-uterine conditions sometimes give evidence of their presence by alterations in the normal manifestations of gestation. Unusually active or unusually inactive foetal movements, may occur in foetal disease, and I have the notes of a case of foetal singultus diagnosed by the peculiarity of the movements made by the infant still in utero. All matters, such as the exposure of the mother to infection or to traum- atism during pregnancy, ought to be noted. The fact that she herself is suffering from malaria, smallpox, measles, scarlet fever, typhoid, and the like, is strong presumptive evidence that her infant in utero is similarly affected. In cases of general tuberculosis of an advanced type, it is now known to be possible for the foetus also to be tubercular. The actual examination of the mother, and especially of her abdomen, may give some hint as to the state of the unborn infant. Thus the presence of hydx-amnios has been found to be very con- stantly associated with an intra-uterine path- ological state, either of the nature of a disease or a monstrosity, and hydramnios can generally be diagnosed by careful examination. Again, it has been noted that occasionally the foetal heart sounds have been impure, and the diagnosis of foetal heart disease or malformation has on several occasions been made and confirmed after the birth of the child. During labour it is sometimes possible to diagnose a foetal disease, and even then the diagnosis is not without value, for it enables the medical man to forewarn the interested parties of the state of matters, and so save himself in some measure from the reproach attaching to the unexpected advent of a diseased infant. The diagnosis of intra-uterine death will be considered later. Intra-uterine therapeutics is a subject which has as yet made little progress, and it can hardly be expected to make much until intra- uterine diagnosis has been perfected. Never- theless, in some few directions the outlook is in some degree hopeful. The study of foetal pathology has shown that it is dangerous for the pregnant woman to expose herself to the infection of the exanthemata, even if she her- self have suffered previously from the special fever in question, for her acquired immunity does not extend to her unborn infant. In the presence of an epidemic of variola, the vaccina- tion of the pregnant woman becomes a rightful precaution, not so much for her own sake as for that of her foetus, for it has been shown that sometimes the latter is thus rendered immune to subsequent vaccination, and therefore prob- ably to smallpox. In the same way quinine may be given to the pregnant woman sur- 17