PLEURA, DISEASES OF 143 (d) General Considerations.—Pleurisy is more often a sequel of the acute infective diseases in the child than in the adult. Pericarditis is said to be commoner in early life than at a later period. The course and results of pleurisy do not present any striking peculiarities in child- hood. Rapid absorption is common, but so also is a lingering and tedious convalescence. Marked deformity of the chest may remain after an attack, but often undergoes much subsequent amelioration. In empyema the prospects of cure by simple aspiration are much better in the child than in the adult, but incision and drainage will usually be necessary. Varieties op Pleurisy. — No satisfactory classification of pleurisies is at present possible. Most of the usual varieties have been incidentally alluded to in the course of the foregoing de- scription. The subject can only be very briefly considered here. Most of the classifications which have been adopted involve unverifiable hypotheses, or seek to establish distinctions which a fuller knowledge may show to be invalid. Enough has been said to show that the differentiation of tubercular pleurisy from other varieties, which is the great practical desideratum, cannot be estab- lished with certainty either by clinical or patho- logical evidence. " Latent" or " quiet" pleurisy has no claim to be regarded as a separate entity, nor can " diaphragmatic pleurisy" be erected into a distinct variety. It is very questionable if pleurisy ever remains limited to the reflection of the pleura upon the diaphragm {see vol. ii. p. 339, " Diaphragm "). Three types of pleurisy remain for consideration which may fairly de- mand separate consideration, viz. dry pleurisy, and chronic pleurisy and empyema. Dry Pleurisy.—In this condition the pleural surface is covered in part with one or more layers of lymph, and effusion does not take place. The symptoms are pain in the side, slight pyrexia, which may, however, be absent, and some degree of general malaise. Friction is heard on examination of the chest. It is commonly posterior or antero-lateral in situation, usually in the neighbourhood of the base of the lung, and is most often quite limited in extent, but in exceptional cases may be heard almost over the entire side of the chest. The course of these cases is often tedious, but ultimately adhesions usually form between the opposing pleural surfaces, and recovery takes place. The same doubt overhangs the aetiology and significance of these cases which appertains to the subject of acute pleurisy. Whether a " dry " pleurisy is ever the result of simple chill, whether it ever arises in an individual otherwise quite healthy, whether the presence of this condition warrants a suspicion of tuberculosis, whether the after history of these cases shows that their ultimate course is unfavourable—all these questions are at present unsettled. The fact that in almost every patient dying of a chronic malady some adhesions of the pleurse are found, points to the conclusion that this membrane readily undergoes plastic exudation in patients whose general condition is bad, or who are the subjects of some constitutional malady. To infer that the pleural adhesions so constantly found in the dead-house are always, or even in the majority of cases, tubercular, seems a large and unverifiable assumption. Direct proof of their tubercular nature is usually wanting. On the other hand, it seems doubtful whether a "dry" pleurisy ever arises as the result of simple chill in an individual otherwise quite healthy, and a pleurisy of this type should be watched with as much, or even greater care than an ordinary acute pleurisy. Where friction is limited to the apical region the suspicion of tuberculosis will be much strengthened. The treatment consists in the relief of pain, general tonic measures, and watchfulness re- garding possible developments. The subject of " dry " pleurisy should, if possible, shun indoor occupations, and all depressing conditions of life and work should be reduced to a minimum. The sputum, if obtainable, and the urine should be carefully examined. It must not be forgotten that in exceptional cases "dry" pleurisy takes on an acute development, and effusion may suddenly set in. Chronic Pleurisy. — This subject has been already incidentally considered. The main facts may be here conveniently summarised. Chronic pleurisy may be a sequel of the acute or sub- acute affection, or the attack may be chronic throughout. It may be attended by moderate or large effusion, or may belong to the type of the so-called "dry" pleurisies. The so-called " latent" or " quiet " pleurisy already described, in which a large effusion collects without definite symptoms, is one variety of chronic pleurisy with effusion. In another class of cases an ordinary attack of acute or subacute pleurisy is characterised by persistence of the eff'usion, or by its repeated recurrence after aspiration. A large proportion of these cases are probably tubercular. In a third type of case the exuda- tion is plastic, more or less extensive adhesion of the pleural surfaces takes place, and the function of the lung is in some degree impaired. In very chronic cases thickening of the jileura to an extreme degree may occur, the newly formed tissue is often tough and unyielding in consistency, and sometimes it undergoes calcar- eous change. The lungs may undergo cirrhotic change. The general course and symptoms of chronic pleurisy present great variations. Amongst the most constant features are short- ness of breath, cough, progressive debility, slight cyanosis, and diarrhoea. Pain is usually present, but may be slight, and may not be mentioned by the patient until inquired for by