260 PEEGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—INTRA-UTERINE DISEASES, DEATH OF FCETUS Congenital cystic ele])hantiasis is a malady which in some particulars resembles general foetal dropsy. In it, however, the subcutaneous tissue contains numerous cysts containing clear serous or curd-like matter, and the resulting deformity is greater. It may be generalised, but more commonly it is widespread without being quite universal in distribution; in other cases it is restricted to a special region of the body, such as the head and neck. It consists in dilatation, or in dilatation and occlusion of the lymphatic vessels and spaces; and the dropsy which results is generally gelatinous in its character—hence the name hydrops anasarca gelatinosa, sometimes given to it. Premature birth is the usual clinical result of this disease. The mother may show albuminuria and hydram- nios, but the relation of these conditions and the foetal state is not clear. The name congenital elephantiasis is usually given, not to the cystic form which has just been described, but rather to the fibrous or telangiectatic or neuromatous varieties. In these there is a more or less localised thick- ening of the subcutaneous tissue, with nsevus- like vascularity of the part, and sometimes with a distribution specially following certain nerves. The malady is quite compatible with extra-uterine life, and in some instances has been cured by elastic pressure. In some instances, as in the case reported by Mainzer {Deutsche med. Wochnschr. xxv. 436, 1899), the resem- blance to elephantiasis Arabum of the adult is very close, and some have held that it is really the congenital form of that disease. A case has been reported in which a woman dur- ing pregnancy suffered on several occasions from lymphangitis; her infant at birth showed enlargement of one leg, and blood taken from the leg revealed groups and chains of the strepto- cocci of Fehleisen; the conclusion drawn was that during the maternal lymphangitic attacks streptococci passed through the placenta into the foetal circulation. This malady is associ- ated in some way with the condition of uni- lateral hypertrophy which is occasionally met with, and in which the distribution of the enlargement is exactly limited by the middle line of the body. Atrophic conditions of the subcutaneous tissue are sometimes found as congenital states. There may be a total absence of the subcutane- ous fat, and this anomaly may persist until adult life is reached, when the individual affected is described as a " living skeleton." A condition which is probably closely allied is cutis laxa or dermatolysis{\N\\}a.QW.\j tumour formations). The so-called " elastic-skinned men" exhibited at fairs and shows are instances of this curious con- dition of the subcutaneous tissue which micro- scopic examination has shown to be atrophy of the connective tissue bundles of the skin with a transformation of the firm tissue of the dermis into an unformed myxoma-like structure. Foetal ascites and perit07iitis often co-exist in the foetus; in fact ascites is rarely due to obstruction of the portal circulation in ante- natal life, for the reason that the portal circu- lation is rudimentary then, and it thus happens that it is most commonly caused by peritonitis. Sometimes the abdominal distension thus pro- duced is so great as to impede and even to prevent the birth of the infant altogether; as much as five or six litres of fluid have been found in the abdominal cavity. Usually the child is still-born or has to be killed during labour to diminish its bulk, but there are cases on record in which puncture of the abdomen has been followed by recovery. Hydramnios is not uncommonly associated with peritonitic ascites, and the association with malformations of the intestines and genito-urinary organs is also noteworthy. Foetal peritonitis is not always accompanied with effusion, and a case has been reported in which there were traces of at least two attacks of dry peritonitis in the same foetus. The cause of the peritoneal inflam- mation is seldom clear; in some cases it has been ascribed to syphilis, but in others there is absence of all signs pointing to this cause. The writer has met with an instance in which the mother had been subject to the infection of measles during the last weeks of her pregnancy, and the foetus had peritonitis. Distension of the urinary bladder is sometimes associated with peritonitis; there may then be either hydramnios or oligo-hydramnios. Foetal endocarditis is of importance as the cause of morbus coeruleus in infancy and child- hood. It must, however, be remembered that it is not certain that all cardiac anomalies are due to inflammation affecting the heart; some malformations arise directly as such in the embryonic period of antenatal life. The origin of foetal endocarditis has been a subject about which doubt has existed ; but it has recently been shown that it may originate from the passage of germs from the mother to the foetus through the placenta. In a case of maternal erysipelas reported by Bidone, the foetus was found to be the subject of streptococcic endo- carditis, and it is px'olDable that the strej^tococci found their way directly to the heart through the umbilical vein and ductus venosus. In the same way, in a case of foetal tuberculosis it was evident that bacilli had made their entrance into the heart and had set up tubercular endocarditis. The Transmitted Diseases of the Fcetus form an increasingly large group, and some maladies which were formerly regarded as idio- pathic are now coming to be regarded as trans- mitted. Examples of this transference are found in endocarditis and elephantiasis, which have just been described. In addition to these