PLAGUE 109 supposed to act as carriers of plague infection, a subject which is dealt with later. The Connection between Plague in Rat and Man.—The principal ways in which plague is believed to be spread are by contact directly with persons suffering from the disease or with material infected by such persons or plague- stricken rats. Those epidemics of which we have fullest particulars naturally divide themselves into two classes, those in which rats have appeared to be the important carriers of infection, and those in which plague-infected rats have been absent or an unimportant factor. Upon this classification we may draw up the following table, a few outbreaks of both types being selected from the many plague epidemics which have occurred of late years :— Outbreaks in which Plague Rats have been important factors in spreading Plague. Sydney, 1900. Cape Town \ Port Elizabeth V1901-2. Mossel Bay j Report of ^ Chak Kalal, Punjab. Indian I Mahlgahla, Punjab. Plague |- Kurachi, 2nd epidemic. Com- I Poona, later epidemics. mission, j Belgaum, 2nd epidemic. Alexandria \ . „ . . Port Said The Plague Commission summarised their views on the connection between plague in rat and man :—- " It has been clearly established that when the infection of plague has been imported into a town or village, rats have, in many cases, contracted the infection before any indigenous case occurred among men. Again, it has been clearly established that, where rats have become infected, they have been instrumental in spread- ing plague in evacuated villages, and in carrying the infection outward from evacuated quarters. Hardly less clear is it that rats have been fre- quently at work in disseminating the infection of plague in inhabited towns and villages, and that in some cases they have been responsible for the occurrence of an explosive outbreak of plague among men. It is, however, important to note that the outbreak of plague among rats has not in all cases been followed by the occur- rence of plague among men, and that explosive outbreaks have sometimes been due to causes other than the spread of infection by rats." The following conclusions are therefore ar- rived at regarding the relative importance of rats and men as agents in disseminating plague in an infected place:— (a) " In some places where severe epidemics have occurred among men, rats have not been infected at all, and in many places where there have been plague epidemics among men, the disease has not appeared among rats in epidemic form. (h) " Occasionally where there has been con- siderable mortality among rats, there has been an absence of plague among men. (c) "Even when there has been the largest amount of plague among rats, the risk of persons who came in contact with these infected rats appears not to have approached that under- gone by persons inhabiting houses ^ in which there have been plague patients, or persons coming into contact with pneumonic plague. There are, however, cases, such for instance as the cases of Mahlgahla and Chak Kalal (already referred to), where a very considerable number of plague cases in a village has been directly attributable to the dissemination of infection con- sequent on an epidemic of plague among rats. Outbreaks in which Plague Rats have been unimportant factors. Oporto, 1899-1900. Glasgow, 1900. Liverpool, 1901. Certain villages in Punjab. Kurachi, 1st epidemic. Poona, 1st epidemic. Belgaum, 1st epidemic. (d) " Since the number of plague bacilli escaping from the infected human organism must be presumed to be greater than the number which escape from a plague-infected I'at, a priori it would seem clear that a single infected man must constitute a greater danger than a single infected rat; but, on the other hand, seeing that the excreta of rats may be deposited anywhere throughout a house, and that the number of rats which are affected may many times exceed the number of men who are affected, a severe epidemic among rats must, we think, tend considerably to the spread of infection. (e) " The chief importance of rats in the epidemiology of plague seems to us to arise in connection with the first outbreak of the disease in an affected place, for we have seen that in many instances rats become infected before men, and they scatter plague broadcast over an iminfected place. (/) "When plague is once established in a place, we have no doubt that human agency is a more important factor in spreading the disease than the agency of rats." This last conclusion, however, cannot be applied to plague in South Africa, where infection from rat to man appeared to be the common mode of infection. As to the manner in which the plague rat ' It is possible that in many of these houses plague rats were present about the house, under floors, ceilings, etc., or in outhouses.—J. »S'. L.