354 PUERPERIUM, PHYSIOLOGY OF centre. The edges of the cells towards the lumen may be irregular or jagged, and the re- mainder of the alveolus is filled up with the materials of the milk. During the intervals between the acts of discharge, the cells of the alveoli elongate towards the lumen, their nuclei divide, and in the part of the cells towards the lumen a collection of oil-globules and of other materials takes place. The next stage is that the cells divide, and the part of each towards the lumen containing a nucleus and the materials of the secretion disintegrates and goes to form the solid part of the milk. The cells also secrete water, salts, and milk-sugar. The fat, etc., of the milk are not simply picked out from the blood by the secreting cells, but these materials are formed by metabolic processes within the protoplasm of the cells. In the earlier days of lactation, epithelial cells only partially transformed are discharged in the secretion; these are termed "colostrum cor- puscles." 7. The Lochia.—With the expulsion of the placenta a large raw surface is left at one part of the inner surface of the uterus, whilst a minor degree of denudation occurs over all the rest of this surface, owing to the detachment of the chorion. From the whole of this denuded area a discharge of blood and serum takes place ; this discharge, mingled with shreddy fragments of decidua, and modified by the admixture of cervical and vaginal secretions, constitutes the lochia. The proportion of blood is greater than is found in the discharges from raw surfaces elsewhere, because the uterine vessels are not so perfectly secured as are those in an ordinary operation wound. In pre-antiseptic times the discharge usually became purulent after a few days, just as the formation of "laudable pus" was regarded as a normal stage in the healing of a wound ; and consequently the lochia were distinguished, according to their character, as rubra, serosa, and alba. The total quantity of the discharges after labour was naturally greater when suppuration took place; and we ac- cordingly find that the quantities which were formerly considered normal were greatly in excess of those met with at the present day. Gassner gave the following as the result of his researches:— Lochia rubra, 1-3 day . . 1000 grms. Lochia serosa, 4-5 day . . 280 ,, Lochia alba, 6-8 day . . 205 ,, Hence a woman after labour loses in 8 days 1485 grms. = 52-29 oz. A nursing woman loses in all only 1085 grms. = 38"2 oz. Whilst a woman not nursing loses 1880 grms. = 66-19 oz. The majority of subsequent writers have quoted these figures, which, however, for the reasons given above, are not applicable to confinements conducted according to modern methods. Moreover, Gassner's observations were made on two cases only, one being a suckling and the other a non-suckling woman. In order to determine the question of the normal amount of the lochia, I carried out an investigation on 64 consecutive cases at the General Lying-in Hospital, Lambeth. The method of pr-ocedure was as follows :— The lochia were received in wood-wool pads covered with sublimate gauze. These pads were made carefully to scale in two sizes, 1 oz. and \ oz. respectively; the former being employed at first in each case, and replaced by the smaller ones as the discharge diminished. After removal, each pad was at once again weighed, the difference representing the amount of discharge during the time that the pad was on. When, two or three times in succession, the soiled pad was found not to have gained in weight, the lochia were regarded as having ceased. Four of the cases were not normal, and were not included in my calculations. The remain- ing 60 cases gave the following results :— The lowest quantity was 2 oz., the highest 24 oz. In 30 cases, or 50 per cent, the quantity was 10 oz. or less. In 19 cases, or 32 per cent, the quantity was 10-15 oz. In 8 cases, or 13 per cent, the quantity was 15-20 oz. In 3 cases, or 5 per cent, the quantity was over 20 oz. The average quantity, taking the whole of the 60 cases together, is 10-89 oz. If wo exclude three cases above 20 oz., the average, calculated on 95 per cent, is 10-2 oz. Hence we conclude that the average normal quantity of lochia is about oz. The duration of the discharge was from five days to a fortnight, and was distributed as follows:— In 4 cases In 4 „ In 10 „ In 11 „ In 11 „ 5 days 6 „ 7 „ 8 „ 9 „ In 6 cases In 7 „ In 6 „ In 1 „ 10 days 11 „ 12 „ 14 „ That is, in 40 cases, or 66 per cent, it was nine days or under. The average on all the cases is 9-75 days. A practical deduction is that it is usually safe for the patient to get up on the tenth day. As to the factors which may influence the quantity of the lochia, the chief interest, in view of Gassner's results, lies in the question of suckling. On this point my cases do not bear out Gassner's conclusion that the quantity is considerably increased in non-suckling women. In 53 cases in which the patient nursed the baby the average was 11-2 oz.; in 7 cases in