36 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES stream gives rise to a rapid flow in the arteries, a somewhat slower flow in the veins, and to a very slow flow in the capillaries. The suddenness of the change of pressure has a certain influence on the rapidity of flow, as is well seen in a river. If the water descends over a sudden declivity to a lower level it A R C r:::i'' Fio. 140.—Diagram ot the sectional area of the vascular system, upon which the velocity of the flow depends. 4JJ., Arteries ; C, capillaries; V., veins. attains a much greater velocity than if the declivity is gentle. In the first case the change of pressure is sudden, in the second case it is slow. Hence, if, from any cause, the pressure is raised at any point, the flow will tend to be more rapid from that point onwards till the normal distribution of pressure is re-established. Friction has also a certain effect. A river runs much faster in mid-stream than along the margins, because near the banks the flow is de- layed by friction, and the more broken up and subdivided is the channel, the greater is the friction and the more is the stream slowed. When, therefore, in the capillary system the blood stream is distributed through innumer- able small channels, the friction is very great, and this tends to dam back the blood. The velocity of flow in the arteries and veins may be measured by various methods, of which one of the best is that by means of the stromuhr, an instrument by which the volume of blood passing a given point in an artery or vein in a given time may be determined. The velocity of the flow in the capillaries may be measured in transparent structures by means of a microscope with an eye-piece micrometer. The velocity of the blood is— Carotid of the dog about . 300 mm. per sec. Capillaries about . . 0-5tolm. „ „ Vein (jugular) about . 150 mm. „ ,, It is not so easy to give definite figures for the velocity of the lymph stream. Disturbance of any of the factors which govern the rate of flow will bring about altera- tions in the velocity of the blood in arteries, capillaries, and veins. Thus, an increased venous pressure by leading to a diminution in the diff'erence of pressure, between arteries and veins, will materially slow the blood stream. Great dilatation of the arterioles will slow the blood stream in them; and increased viscosity of the blood, by increasing friction with the vessel wall, will also slow the stream. Special Characters of Blood Flow.—(a) Arter'ies.—The flow of blood in an artery is rhythmically accelerated with each ventricular systole. This is due to the pulse wave. As the wave of high pressure passes along the vessels, the blood tends to flow forwards and backwards from it—so that in front of the wave there is an acceleration of the stream, and be- hind it a retardation. In a wave at sea the same thing happens, and a cork floating on the surface is moved forward in front of the wave, and again backwards after the wave has passed. {b) Capillaries.—In the capillaries the flow is uniform. (c) Veins.—-In most veins, too, it is uniform, but in the great veins near the heart it undergoes accelerations— \st. With each diastole of auricle and ven- tricle. 2nd. With each inspiration. 'ird. By muscular action squeezing the blood out of the small veins. In all vessels the blood in the centre of the stream moves more rapidly than that at the peri- phery on account of the friction between the blood and the vessels. An axial" rapid and '^^peri- pheral" slow stream are, therefore, described. This is well seen in any small vessel placed under the microscope, and in such situations it will be found that, while the erythrocytes are chiefly carried in the axial stream, the leuco- cytes are more confined to the peripheral stream, where they may be observed to roll along the vessel wall with a tendency to adhere to it. When from any cause the flow through the capillaries is brought to a standstill, the leuco- cytes creep out through the vessel wall and invade the tissue spaces. This is the process of diapedesis, which plays an important part in inflammation. Special characters of the Circulation in certain situations 1. Circulation inside the Cranium (Fig. 141). ■—Here the blood circulates in a closed cavity with rigid walls, and therefore its amount can vary only at the expense of the cerebro-spinal fluid. This is small in amount, and permits of very small variations in the volume of blood. Increased arterial pressure in the body does not therefore increase the amount of blood in the brain, but simply drives the blood more rapidly through the organ. There seems to be no regulating nervous mechanism connected with