OPTIC NERVE 525 RETINA AND dots or strige at the macula. The atfection of the papillae varies between a mere slight con- gestion and a decided engorgement; in the latter case the veins are distended, and there is a marked tendency to heemorrhages, which occur mainly in the nerve-fibre layer. The soft-edged light patches occur comparatively early, and are found mainly in the neighbourhood of the papilla; they are of rather large size, and usually lie behind the retinal vessels, but sometimes in front of them. The white punctate spots appear later, and are arranged in the form of a fan or star, the lines radiating from the fovea centralis. Both eyes are nearly always affected. Causes.—This form of retinitis is most com- monly associated with chronic disease of the kidney, especially the contracting granular form. It is also sometimes met with in acute nephritis after scarlatina, and is often present in the albuminuria of pregnancy. It must be remembered, however, that we may have a papillitis or papillo-retinitis, very like that from intracranial affections, in renal disease, without the typical appearance above described. On the other hand, retinitis of the albuminuric type, with stellate macular figure, etc., occurs ex- ceptionally in connection with intracranial aff"ections, diabetes, or antemia, without there being evidence or other suspicion of renal dis- ease. The most valuable factor in the ophthal- moscopic diagnosis in all doubtful cases is the condition of the retinal arteries ; if these have undergone hyaline degeneration, renal disease is almost certainly present. This arterial change is, we believe, always present in the retinitis found along with the albuminuria of pregnancy, indicating that such patients are, in fact, the subjects of chronic renal disease, and that pregnancy has had a prejudicial effect on the malady. Prognosis.—(a) Local.—If improvement takes place in the general condition or renal affection, the retinal changes may subside, but the changes at the macula persist for a long time even in the most favourable cases, e.g. those occurring after scarlatina and during pregnancy. In the last-mentioned group the prognosis is relatively more favourable if the retinitis has not occurred during any previous pregnancy, and if it occurs during the later months. In- duction of premature labour is often advisable —always if the retinal condition is grave or getting rapidly worse. {h) The prognosis as regards life is unfavour- able in cases of albuminuric retinitis in chronic renal disease, except where pregnancy has been the determining factor, the subjects of it often dying within a year after the vision has become thus affected. Syphilitic Retinitis. — This is usually an inflammation of a chronic diffuse type, without gross ophthalmoscopic changes. The retina becomes hazy and grey, especially near the papilla, at the macula, and along the larger vessels. The large veins are somewhat dis- tended, and the outline of the papilla is blurred. White patches and hsemorrhages are rare. The viti-eous often shows fine dust-like opacities close in front of the retina. Occasionally, on the inner surface of the retina, one or more white bands of exudation are formed, which after- wards are organised into connective tissue, and may ultimately occasion detachment of the retina. Choroiditis is often an accompaniment. The retinal affection usually comes on late in the secondary stage, often about the end of the first year, and is relatively more common in persons who have acquired syphilis rather late in life ; it is also met with, however, in young children who have inherited the disease. It may occur in both eyes, or in one eye only. Later, the retina often shows atrophic changes, with pigmentation. Couj-se.—There is early visual failure, often with night-blindness, and sometimes micropsia. The retinitis lasts for months, with a tendency to occasional temporary improvement; the ultimate result is usually favourable if proper treatment is pursued. When atrophy and pig- mentation result there is much permanent loss of vision. Treatment.—It is impossible to insist too strongly on the necessity of early mercurial treatment, preferably by inunction. The local treatment of retinitis has already been described. Leucocyth^mic Retinitis. — Retinal changes not infrequently occur in the splenic form of leucocythsemia, and are then always present in both eyes, though often in an unequal degree. In a typical case of this affection there are retinal hsemorrhages of peculiar character, ap- pearing as white patches surrounded by a red border; these are found particularly at the limits of the retinal circulation, viz. at the macula and at the periphery of the fundus. There are also ordinary haemorrhages, usually of small size, and widespread retinal haze with blurring of the disc. The general fundus-reflex is of an orange - yellow colour; the retinal arteries are bright orange, and the veins broad, flattened, and of a light carmine tint. Diabetic Retinitis.—Retinitis is not common in diabetes, but when it occurs is nearly always found in both eyes. There is seldom haze of the retina or change in the papilla. The most common form of this affection shows at first simply many small retinal haemorrhages; but in some cases we have later rather large, flat- looking, white, opaque spots at the macula, with sharp, crenated borders. In other cases the appearances closely resemble those found in renal disease, but in these cases the arteries show hyaline degeneration with pressure on the veins, and granular kidney is probably pi'esent in addition.