63 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES mechanical or chemical stimulation of the mouth produces no effect, but the administra- tion of meat produced it. The sight of food in a fasting dog produces after a latent period of five minutes a copious flow of gastric juice. EYE MOUTH POUCH FlO. 162.—To show the nervous mechanism of gastric secretion and how it is reflexly induced through various ingoing channels. PavlofF calls this " psychic" stimulation. It is an example of how the "distance receptor" in the eye reflexly brings about an appropriate reaction—just as the " non-distance receptor " in the wall of the stomach under certain stimuli brings about an appropriate reaction. It is somewhat rash of a physiologist who can know nothing of the relation of the psychic state to the actions with which it is associated to affirm, as Pavloff does, that the psychic change is causal. There is some evidence that the formation of gastric juice is also influenced by the action of a chemical substance produced in the mucous membrane of the pyloric end of the stomach. It has been found that the injection into the blood stream of an extract of this membrane made by boiling with acid or peptone causes a production of gastric juice. In all probability the initial secretion of gastric juice is dependent on the nervous mechanism, and the secondary secretion, when food is in the stomach, on the action of this substance. In the case of the pancreas such a chemical stimulant plays a very important part (p. 82). Such substances have been named Hormones. 3. Movements of the Stomach.—These have been studied by feeding an animal with food containing bismuth, and then applying X-rays, which are intercepted by the coating of bismuth, so that a shadow picture of the shape of the stomach is given (Fig. 163). It is found that, soon after food is taken, a constriction forms about the middle of the stomach and slowly passes on to- wards the pylorus. Another con- striction forms and follows the first, and thus the pyloric part of the stomach is set into active peristalsis. The cardiac fundus acts as a reser- voir, and, by a steady contraction, presses the gastric contents into the more active pylorus, so that at the end of gastric digestion it is completely emptied. The pylorus is closed by the strong sphincter muscle, which, however, relaxes from time to time during gastric digestion to allow the escape of the more fluid contents of the stomach into the intestine. These openings are at first slight and transitory, but as time goes on they become more marked and more frequent, and when gastric digestion is complete STOMACH —usually at the end of five or six hours—the sphincter is completely relaxed and allows the stomach to be emptied. The openings are regu- lated by a local nervous mechanism which is brought into play by the escape of the acid gastric contents into the duodenum. This leads to an immediate closure of the pylorus, which does not again open till the contents of the duodenum have been neutralised by the alkaline secretions which are poured into it. The rate of passage from the stomach of various kinds of food has Fig. 163-—Tracings of the shadows of the contents of the stomach and intestine of a cat two hours after feeding (A) witli boiled lean beef, and (B) with boiled rice to show the more rapid emptying of the stomach after tlie carbo- hydrate food. The small divisions of the food in some of the intestinal loops represent the process of rhytliniic segmentationjsee p. 70). (Cannon.) been studied by feeding cats with equal amounts of each kind of food mixed with bismuth, and then, by X-rays, getting the outline of the contents of the small intestine at different periods. Carbohydrates were found to pass on most rapidly and fats most slowly (Fig. 163).