365 PUERPERIUM, PATHOLOGY OF the broad ligament, to Poupart's ligament, and down the thigh along the femoral vessels. A localised parametritis usually ends in resolution, but suppuration may occur with hectic fever. In pelvic peritonitis the pain is much more acute and the constitutional disturbance greater. The temperature rises gradually, and seldom exceeds 102° F.; the pulse, on the other hand, rises I'apidly, often reaching 120 or more beats per minute. The effusion is less distinct, and is usually found behind or in front of the uterus. When Douglas's pouch is distended the vagina is pushed down before it, forming a well-defined dome, over which the mucous membrane can be easily moved by the finger; whereas in cellulitis this membrane is im- movably fixed; the swelling may extend upwards to, or above, the fundus, and pushes the rectum to one side. In cellulitis, on the other hand, if posterior to the uterus, the swelling never extends above the line of firm peritoneal attachment; and sometimes com- pletely surrounds the rectum. It is of the utmost importance to decide whether these conditions are merely local inflammations or part of a general systemic poisoning. There is seldom any difficulty in deciding this question in the case of cellulitis, but it is otherwise in the case of peritonitis, and the most that we can do, for some days at least, is to hope that a localised peritonitis may remain so, and therefore the extension of tenderness to the upper part of the abdomen is an ominous symptom. On the other hand, a localised peritonitis is generally more acutely painful, and therefore intense hypogastric pain is relatively a good sign in these cases. Septicaemia A general infection always commences in one of the local conditions already described, most frequently as an endometritis, but the organ- isms invade the tissues, and are carried into the system by the lymphatics and blood-vessels, generally by the former alone. There is usually an incubation period of about thirty-six hours before the fever sets in ; but since the infection may occur before, during, or after labour, the time when symptoms occur is also variable, but they do so most frequently on the third day after delivery. The fever is ushered in by a rigor or sense of chill; the temperature rises rapidly and remains high, with but slight remissions, until shortly before death. The pulse rises rapidly, generally reaching 140 beats on the second day, and continues to increase until it becomes uncountable. The patient looks and feels extremely ill; her aspect is indeed almost pathognomonic of the disease. The face assumes a nervous, anxious expression, with pallor of the skin, which often assumes an icteric hue; the features become pinched, with hollow cheeks and sunken eyes. She is at first fretful and inclined to tears, with a dread of impending death ; she cannot sleep day or night in spite of opiates. The lochia are scanty or suppressed, and in some cases putrid ; the vulvar and vaginal wounds are covered with diphtheritic membranes. Peritonitis sets in early and soon becomes general, so that the abdomen becomes greatly distended and tender to the touch. As the disease advances a con- dition of euphorea sets in, and the patient may feel and say that she is well, though evidently most seriously ill. She often becomes drowsy or somnolent (septic somnolence), though when the disease involves the stomach she is con- stantly distressed by incessant vomiting, which continues without intermission to the end; the vomit at first consists of the stomach contents, but soon changes to green, brown (coffee ground), or black. The respiration becomes rapid and superficial. The surface is covered with a cold sweat, and the patient dies in collapse usually towards the end of the first or the beginning of the second week. In the most acute forms of septicaemia the symptoms commence during or soon after labour, and death follows in a few hours. So rapid are some of these cases that there may be no rise of temperature and but few post- mortem appearances. Diagnosis is seldom difficult. The aspect of the patient, sleeplessness, her small and rapid pulse, and general peritonitis are sufficiently characteristic; it has, however, often been mis- taken for typhus or enteric fever, scarlatina, diphtheria, and aciite tuberculosis. Prognosis is generally bad, and the sooner the symptoms occur and the more rapid the extension of the peritonitis the worse it is. Post-mortem Appearances. — The interior of the uterus and the vaginal and vulvar wounds are covered with sloughs; the uterine wall is swollen and oedematous, sometimes gangrenous. The lymphatics are plugged with thrombi, and on section look greyish-yellow, resembling minute abscesses. Cellulitis is almost always present, the tissue is oedematous, seldom infil- trated with pus, and microscopically shows a small-celled infiltration. This cellulitis is one of the most important lesions in the disease, as peritonitis is the result of the underlying cellulitis, and the general infection spreads along the cellular tissue with amazing rapidity, following the course of the lymph current, first along the ovarian and uterine vessels to the iliac fossse, upwards to the diaphragm, and into the posterior mediastinum, causing pleuritis and endocarditis, or downwards under Poupart's ligament, giving rise to a phlegmasia alba dolens. The peritoneum is of a dark red colour, especi- ally where it covers the intestines, and its cavity contains a thin, horribly foetid or puru- lent fluid. Most of the important organs of the body are affected—the heart, pleura, kidneys.