231 PREGNANCY, PHYSIOLOGY OF—DIAGNOSIS OF PREGNANCY occurrence so very early in some cases this view is probably correct. The severer forms of the disorder may, however, be a manifestation of a tox£Emia dependent in some way, not yet ascer- tained, on the pregnant state. Taken by itself morning sickness is not a symptom of much value in the diagnosis of pregnancy, as vomiting in the morning after rising is not infrequently met with in ordinary gastric catarrh and in chlorosis. When it is associated with amenorrhoea and an unimpaired appetite it is significant presumptive evidence. It is valuable as a corroborative sign because it occurs so early in pregnancy. Increased salivation is often found accom- panying the severe forms of morning sickness. It may be present, however, alone. It is so rarely met with, however, as to be of very slight diagnostic importance. III. Vm'ious other nervo^is phenomena which are occasionally met with in pregnancy—such as abnormal cravings for certain articles of food, changes in temperament (irritability or despondency), and neuralgias—are of no value in themselves as indicating pregnancy. When, however, any of them have been noticed in a patient in a former pregnancy they possess a certain significance. IV. Quicliening.—Much more important is the subjective phenomena of quickening, a term used to designate the sensation for the first time by the mother of the movements of the foetus in utero. The date of this is generally about mid-term, when the growing uterus comes in contact with the abdominal wall. As a sign of pregnancy it is obviously of much greater value in multiparous than primiparous women. The movement of flatus in the intestines and irregular contractions of the abdominal muscles may be mistaken even by multiparse for quicken- ing. Statements regarding the sensation of quickening must, therefore, be accepted with caution, and too great reliance must not be placed on them. If the foetal movements have not been felt by the mother this must not be taken as proof of the non-existence of pregnancy, for they are sometimes not noticed until very late, sometimes not at all even when the child is quite healthy; and, lastly, they will be absent, of course, when the foetus is dead. V. Bladder Irritation. — Frequently daring the first three months, while the uterus is still a pelvic organ, patients complain of some bladder irritation. Generally this is evidenced by frequent calls to micturition, in some cases by actual pain during the act. This is due to the pressure of the anteflexed uterus against the bladder, and passes off as soon as the uterus rises out of the pelvis. By itself this symptom is, of course, of no value, and even along with others is of little importance in diagnosis. Kiestein, the flocculent deposit sometimes present on the surface of the urine in pregnancy, has no diagnostic significance as was once supposed. It is composed of fungi mixed with triple phosphates. It is found also in the urine of non-pregnant women and also in that of males. The Objective Signs of Pregnancy.—These, as already stated, are of much greater diag- nostic value than the subjective symptoms just mentioned. These signs are made known to us by direct physical examination of the patient. This includes an examination of the mammse, abdomen, vagina, and uterus. Changes in the Mamm^.—These have already been considered under the head of local changes in the maternal organism resulting from preg- nancy. We need, therefore, refer only to their relative value in diagnosis. Montgomery regarded these changes to be certain signs of pregnancy if they were well marked. As a general rule this may be taken to be true if they are found present in a woman who is known not to have been previously pregnant. In parous women, however, their value is much diminished by the fact that in them the darkening of the areola, the prom- inence of the areolar tubercles, and secretion may be found present for years after lactation has ceased. They have been found present also in non-pregnant girls, it is stated, as a result of repeated sexual intercourse and mechanical irritation of the breasts and geni- tals. Almost identical changes, too, it must be kept in mind, are found occasionally in con- nection with various pelvic disorders, such as ovarian and fibroid tumours, chronic metritis, etc. The chief value of the mammary changes to the physician lies in the fact that they occur so early, and also because they can be so easily examined in a suspected case of pregnancy without exciting any suspicion in the mind of the patient as to the reason of the examination. Abdominal Signs of Pregnancy. — The changes in the size, shape, and appearance of the abdomen have already been stated. There are, however, other and more reliable signs. They are as follows:— {a) Active Movements of the Foetus.—-These can generally be both seen and felt through the abdominal wall after the sixth month. In a multiparous patient they may be felt even much earlier. As seen these active movements must be diff'erentiated from intestinal peri- staltic movements. When felt in abdominal palpation they can hardly be mistaken for anything else. (6) Passive Movements of the Foetus, Ballotte- ment.—The sensation which is imparted to the examining hand when the foetus is moved about in the liquor amnii is called ballottement. It can be felt on abdominal examination if the foetus is not too large, or the liquor amnii not too scanty, and is therefore most easily recog- nised about the sixth month. It is, however.