99 PIGMENTS OF THE BODY AND EXCRETA which is obtained shows two well-marked ab- sorption bands towards the violet end of the spectrum, due to the lipochrome which it con- tains, and a similar spectrum is seen when yolk of egg is treated in the same manner. Other interesting members of the group are the chromophanes of the retinal cones of fishes, birds, and reptiles. The pigment which is mainly responsible for the yellow colour of the blood-serum aiad of serous effusions is also believed to be a lipo- chrome. The colouring matter of human serum has received little special study, but from ox serum Krukenberg was able to extract, by means of amylic alcohol, a yellow pigment which showed two absorption bands in the position of lipochrome bands, and Halliburton has obtained similar results with the blood of birds, turtles, and mammalia. Other pigments may, of course, contribute to the coloration of the serum, such as hsemoglobin, bilirubin, which Hammarsten has shown to be frequently present in the serum of horses, as well as urobilin and other excretory pigments on their way to be excreted by the kidneys. HEMOGLOBIN AND ITS DERIVATIVES. — In the present article hsemoglobin claims consideration only as a pigment of the body, and as the parent substance of a large family of coloured deriva- tives. For descriptions of the chemical and spectroscopic properties of these substances, as well as of the far more important respiratory function of hsemoglobin, the reader is referred to works on physiology. It is a familiar fact that the respective tints of arterial and venous blood are dependent upon the change of oxyhsemoglobin to reduced hsemo- globin, and vice versa. Changes of the colour of the blood are also brought about by the com- bination of hsemoglobin with gases other than oxygen, as, for example, the cherry tint observed in cases of poisoning by carbon monoxide. In the surface coloration of the human body hsemoglobin has an important share, and its influence is obvious not only in the visible mucous membranes, but also in the skin itself. An estimate of the part which it plays is readily formed by the observation of patients suffering from extreme ansemia, as contrasted with those who show rosy tints of health; and also from the blue tint of cyanosis, which sometimes attains to so extreme a degree in sufferers from congenital heart-disease. Moreover, when the skin is examined by reflected light the absorption bands of hsemoglobin are clearly visible with the spectroscope. Methsemoglobin, a compound which has the same percentage composition as oxyhsemoglobin, but in which the oxygen is more firmly held, is often met with in the urine, to which it gives a dark brown or smoky tint. It is not only in hsemoglobinuria that it is present, but also in the ordinary smoky urine of hsematuria. Hoppe- Seyler stated, indeed, that blood pigment in the urine is always passed in this form, and it is an undoubted fact that blood pigment which has the form of methsemoglobin in the fresh urine may become converted into oxyhsemo- globin on standing, with a corresponding change of tint from brown to pink. Hsemoglobin also has an important share in the coloration of the solid tissues, partly owing to its presence in the blood contained in their vessels. MacMunn has described a group of pigments allied to hsemoglobin which he calls histohfematins, the most important of which is myohsematin, the colouring matter of muscle. He made an elaborate spectroscopic study of this pigment, which he found to be present in the muscles of insects, as well as in those of other invertebrata which have no hsemoglobin in their blood. He also described a modified myohsematin obtained by artificial gastric diges- tion of muscle. On the other hand. Levy maintained that the myohsematin of MacMunn was not a distinct pigment, but that the spectra observed were due to admixture of hsemoglobin and hsemo- chromogen, the formation of the latter being due to post-mortem changes. The most recent investigator in the field is Morner, who failed to detect in the fresh muscle of dogs and oxen any pigment yielding the spectra described by MacMunn. He observed, however, slight differences between the spectra of the muscle pigment and the blood-colouring matter of the same animal, the absorption bands of the former being slightly shifted towards the red. Similar differences were observed when the corresponding carbonic oxide and methsemo- globin were prepared. On the other hand, the hsematin from muscle did not differ from that prepared from the blood, and hence he concludes that the difference lies in the proteid com- ponents. He proposes for the muscle pigment the name of myochrome. Hcemochromogen, the coloured constituent of hsemoglobin, which has a very characteristic spectrum, has been detected by MacMunn in the medulla of the suprarenal capsules, but otherwise is not known to figure as a pigment of the body. HcBmatin has been met with in urine in sul- phuric-acid poisoning, and is possibly present in that excretion more frequently than has hitherto been supposed. It is also found in the ali- mentary canal, being formed by the action of the digestive juices upon hsemoglobin. Hcematoporphyrin, an iron-free derivative of hsemoglobin, was known as a laboratory product before its occurrence as a natural pigment was recognised. It has been found by MacMunn in the integuments of certain invertebrate animals, some of which have no hsemoglobin in their blood, and is one of the colouring matters em- ployed in the decoration of the shells of birds'