PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 9 in the interstices of which is the spleen pulp. The branches of the splenic artery run in the trabeculse, and twigs pass out from these trabeculeje, and are covered with masses of lymph tissue forming the Malpighian corpuscles. Beyond these, the vessels open into a series of complex sinuses lined by endothelial cells of large size, from which the blood is collected into channels, the venous sinuses, which carry it back to branches of the splenic vein in the trabeculae. The pulp is thus comparable with the blood sinuses of the hsemolymph glands, and the spleen may be considered as being a still further development of the hajmolymph gland (Fig. 114). So far, no decrease in the number of erythro- cytes in the blood leaving the spleen has been recorded. In the cells of the spleen pulp, and chiefly in the endothelial cells, yellow pigment and simple iron compounds are frequently found, indicating that haemoglobin is being broken HJiJIOLYMPH Lymph of Limbs Intestines Liver Fig. 114.—To show the relationship of the spleen to lymph glands and hsemo- lymph glands. Tlie black indicates lymphoid tissue; the coarsely spotted part, lymph sinuses, and the finely dotted part, blood sinuses. (Lewis.) down. But the idea that the spleen plays an important part in the actual destruction of erythrocytes seems to be negatived by the fact that, when blood is injected, the cells are broken down no faster in an animal with the spleen intact than in an animal from which the spleen has been removed. While the spleen appears to have no action in killing and destroying erythrocytes, its cells, like those of the sinuses of the lymph glands and hsemolymph glands, have the power of taking up dead and disin- tegrating erythrocytes and storing the iron for future use in the body. These organs may, in fact, be regarded as the graves of the dead erythrocytes. The non-striped muscle in the framework of the spleen undergoes rhythmic contraction and relaxation, and the organ thus contracts and expands at regular intervals of about a minute. These movements may be recorded by en- closing the organ in an oncometer, a closed capsule connected with some form of recording- apparatus. The movements are controlled by fibres leaving the spinal cord chiefly in the 6th, 7th, and 8th dorsal nerves of both sides. Strong stimulation of these causes contraction. B. Lymph (1) Characters of Lymph.—The lymph is the fluid which plays the part of middleman be- tween the blood and the tissues. It tills all the spaces in the tissues and bathes the in- dividual cell elements. These spaces in the tissues open into vessels—the lymph vessels— in which the lymph flows and is conducted through lymph glands and back to the blood through the thoracic duct (.see Fig. 115, p. 10). Lymph varies in character according to the situation from which it is taken and according to the condition of the animal. Lymph taken from the lymph spaces—e.g. the pericardium, pleura, or peritoneum—is a clear straw-coloured fluid. It has little or no tendency to coagulate. Microscopic examina- tion shows that it contains few or no cells—any cells which may exist being Ij'mphocytes. In reaction it is alkaline. The specific gravity varies according to its source, being lowest when from the limbs and highest when from the liver. Apparently the cause of the non- coagulation of such lymph is the absence of cells from which thrombo- kinase may be set free. If blood or white corpuscles be added to it, a loose coagulum forms. If the lymph be taken from lymphatic vessels after these have passed through lymphatic glands, it is found to contain a number of lymphocytes, and it coagulates readily. Chemically, lymph resembles blood plasma in which the proteins are in smaller amount, but the inorganic salts in the same proportion as in the blood. The amount of solids varies in lymph from difi'erent organs. Proteins. 2-3 per cent • 4-6 „ . 6-8 „ In the lymphatics coming from the alimentary canal during starvation, the lymph has the characters above described. But after a meal it has a milky appearance and is called chyle. This milky appearance is due to the presence of fats in a very fine state of division, form- ing what is called the molecular basis of the chyle. Lymph in various diseases tends to accumu- late as serous eff'usions in the large lymph spaces—e.r/. the pleura, peritoneum, pericardium —and these eff'usions behave differently as regards coagulation. The following table helps