130 PLAGUE these persons be not allowed to land till they have satisfied him as to their names, places of destination, and addresses at such places. The M.O.H. has therefore power to detain such persons for inquiries, and part of such time must be utilised in cleansing their persons and possessions. (c) Destruction of Rats afloat.—The import- ance of this measure, and the way in which it may be done, has been already referred to. The Local Government Board of England have issued a special memorandum on ship-borne plague and rats, dated April 1901, advising local authorities to destroy rats in infected and suspected ships, to keep them moored off the shore, and to take the same precautions in case of rat mortality in vessels from infected ports. They also advise disinfection of ships with infected rats, and that the destruction of all rats on ships and shore should be attempted. This memorandum is of the nature of advice rather than a regulation. In Bristol and other large ports the following methods are in use :— (1) A list of infected ports is prepared by the Medical Officer of Health and kept up to date. (2) An infected port is kept on the list for three months after official clearance. (3) Vessels, especially grain and cotton-seed boats, from infected or suspected ports, are upon arrival treated as "suspects," moored six feet oft' the shore, with cables guarded and gangways up at night. Day and night watch- men are employed to prevent rats gaining the shore. Dr. Davies, in an article " Exclusion and Control of Plague " {Public Health, March 1902), puts the matter in a nutshell when he states: " The present policy of allowing the approach of rat-infected ships, and then attempting to prevent the rats coming ashore, is surely attacking the evil at the wrong end. If possible, the obviously correct method would be to insist upon the destruction of all rats in ships when empty, and upon the subsequent observance of precautions to prevent the entry of more rats when loading at infected or other ports." Planarthragra.—Wandering gout, or gout which first attacks one and then another of the joints (Gr. 7rA.am(o, I wander, apOpov, a joint, and aypa, a catching or seizure). See Gout. Plane.—A flat smooth surface (e.g. the inclined planes of the pelvis), or, more often, an imaginary plane surface (i.e. one in which every straight line joining any two points in it lies wholly in it) used as a standard of reference for the positions of the bodily organs (e.g. the plane of the pelvic brim, etc.). Planicipital.—Flat-headed (Lnt.pl anus, flat, caput, head). Piano-.—In compound words piano- (Lat. planus, flat; Gr. TrXavos, wandering) means either flat or wandering ; e.g. a plano-concave lens is one flat on one side and concave on the other, and planocyte means a wandering cell. Planodia.—A false or wandering passage, such as may be made by a catheter during forcible attempts to introduce it into the bladder. Planomania. — A monomania for wandering, usually combined with a tendency to become unsocial in habits. Plantar.—Relating to the sole of the foot (Lat. planta, the sole), e.g. the plantar arch, artery, reflex, or fascia. See Ankle-Joint, Kegion of. Diseases {Gonorrhoeal Affections, Plantar Neuralgia); Aneurysm {Lower Limb, Plantar Arteries); Deformities {Flat Foot); Fascia {Contraction of Plantar Fascia); Osteo- arthropathies {Tabetic Foot). PlantariS.—A muscle arising near the knee-joint, and inserted into the os calcis. Plant! r ia.—The discharge of urine through a fistula or other anomalous passage. Plaques.—Patches, e.g. the opaline plaques or white spots due to the action of nitrate of silver on mucous surfaces, or the plaques jaunes (yellow patches) seen on the cerebral convolu- tions in cases of thrombosis in elderly persons. See Syphilis {Secondary Mucous Membranes); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Throm- bosis). Plasma.—The blood or lymph withoiit the corpuscles belonging thereto. See Blood {Plasma and Serum); Physiology, Blood and Lymph {Plasma). The plasma is the blood minus the corpuscles, and the serum is the plasma minus fibrinogen. Muscle plasma is the juice expressed from muscle. The germ plasma or germ plasm is that part of the substance of the germ cell which is effective in perpetuating the species; a part of it is supposed to be passed on from one generation to another without entering into the formation of the organs and tissues of any one generation (con- tinuity of the germ plasm). PI asm in. See Immunity {Bacterial Plasmin). Plasmodium.—A mass of protoplasm (or syncytium) in which the cell outlines have disappeared (or have not been differentiated), leaving, however, the nuclei distinct; also the name given to the protozoan parasite of malaria. See Physiology, Protoplasm {Structv/re). PlasmOg'en.—The germ plasm, forma- tive protoplasm, or bioplasm.