280 PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—OTHER AFFECTIONS AND COMPLICATIONS This disease may be defined as a degeneration of the bones, chiefly of the pelvis and spine, resulting in the loss -of lime salts, and conse- quently a softening: it is entirely dependent upon the pregnant state. No treatment seems of much avail while the pregnancy goes on, except the removal of the ovaries and tubes with or without the pregnant uterus (Porro's operation). Should the disease continue after labour has terminated, oophorectomy is advisable and is usually successful. XT. Vesical Complications. — The bladder becomes more irritable, the desire to micturate more frequently setting in soon after pregnancy commences; this is probably due to the ante- version which occurs at this period. This may go on until labour is terminated. In- continence and absolute retention may result from pressure of the cervix on the neck of the bladder with an impacted retroverted uterus. This latter complication, which is not infre- quently attended by a dribbling (overflow from much distension), is relieved in milder cases by the passage of the catheter; the uterus then gradually rises above the pelvic brim, and all danger is at an end. In more severe cases an antesthetic is necessary, and manual reposition of the displaced uterus necessary, the left hand being passed into the vagina, or two fingers into the rectum; a stiff ring pessary should be inserted to keep the fundus in its place. Under very rare circumstances puncture of the fundus uteri per vaginam by means of a trocar is necessary; the liquor amnii escapes, and the uterus being reduced in bulk can then be pushed up out of the pelvis—abortion, of course, being the inevitable consequence. Cystocele, or prolapse of the anterior vagiual and posterior bladder walls, becomes more troublesome during pregnancy, owing to the increased congestion of the mucous membrane, and therefore slightly more protrusion at the vulval orifice. {See also " Bladder, Diseases OP," vol. i. p. 384, and "Catheter and Septic Infection of the Urinary Tract," vol. ii. p. 73.) XII. Mental Complications. — Insanity of pregnancy is much less common than that attacking the puerpei-al or nursing woman (about 12 per cent). Many women are natur- ally despondent and low-spirited during gesta- tion, and the form of insanity usually observed is that of melancholia. It affects primigravidte more frequently than multiparse, and is com- moner in women between thirty and forty years of age than in younger ones. Hereditary taint is a very important cause, as also are epilepsy and alcoholism in one or both parents. The disease may begin with conception, or more usually about the third or fourth month, and may recur with each successive pregnancy. The tendency is usually suicidal, but may be homicidal, or rarely a disposition to kleptomania. The prognosis is favourable, and the disease frequently disappears after labour. In bad cases the question of induction of abortion may have to be considered. In all such cases the patient should not be left alone, but should have a cheerful, firm nurse in constant attend- ance upon her. Change of scene without excitement is of the first importance. {See also " Puerperium, Puerperal Insanities.") Causes of Death during Pregnancy These may be divided into three groups—(1) Where death is due to some cause which is not connected with the pregnant state; (2) where death is a consequence or result of pregnancy; (3) where a pathological condition existed before the onset of or developed during pregnancy, and which has been so aggravated by that state as to result in the patient's death. The first group requires no further consideration here, as it belongs to the domain of general medicine and surgery. Under the second heading two types require consideration; in one where death results from a normal, in the other from an abnormal, pregnancy. Normal pregnancy of itself very rarely causes death during its course, but it may under the following condi- tions :—Excessive vomiting, which is frequently associated with some pathological condition such as hydramnios, myxomatous degeneration of the chorion, albuminuria, etc., may occur without any such accompaniments, and, if allowed to continue, may lead to fever, syncope, delirium, coma, and, finally, to the death of the patient. Chorea sometimes develops dui'ing pregnancy, and, it is said, causes a mortality of about 1 in 5 cases. Spontaneous rupture of an appar- ently healthy uterus has been recorded as a cause of death. The development of varicose veins in the legs, pudenda, and pelvis as a result of pressure from the growing uterus is frequently met with. Phlebitis may follow, and death due to the clotting of blood in the pulmonary artery and its branches. Again, rupture of varicose veins of the legs or vulva has produced such profuse haemorrhage in some cases as to kill the patients. Pregnancy some- times so profoundly affects the blood as to lead to hydraemia or serous plethora, or to pernicious ansemia. (Edema of the lungs may occur in the former condition with a fatal result. Prog- nosis in pernicious anaemia is very serious. Eclampsia is one of the commonest causes of death during pregnancy, but this has been fully treated of under its appropriate heading. Acute yellow atrophy has a curious relationship to pregnancy, and terminates fatally practically in all cases within six days. Lastly, death may result from manipulations, as in a case recorded by Hektoen, where air was admitted into the uterine veins from the improper adminis- tration of a vaginal douche, and in cases of procured abortion from sepsis. In abnormal pregnancies deaths are more frequently met