119 PLAGUE deaths ranged from 22 to 25 per cent of the entire population, a severity paralleled by that of the Black Death of the fourteenth century. There is no doubt that certain races suffer more severely during an epidemic of this disease, both as regards susceptibility to attack and case mortality, partly due to their insanitary surroundings and consequent weakened resisting powers, also to their labouring in infected localities, native habits of life, and lack of early hospital treatment. In modern plague epidemics of any magni- tude, the hospital-treated European cases always show a more favourable result than native cases treated under similar conditions. In Sydney (1900), out of 293 European cases the case mortality was 32'4 per cent, and out of 10 Chinese 8 died. In South Africa (1901 to the early part of 1902), among 221 Europeans 33'9 per cent died, and among 450 coloured people (those of partly European blood, more or less remote) 56"7 per cent died. Among 205 natives (including Africans, Malays, Chinese, and Indians) the death-rate was 44*4 per cent. The case mortality varies also with the differ- ent phases of the epidemic. In the 293 Sydney European cases, we have the following figures :— 20th January to 12th April 1900, 100 Euro- pean cases, fatality 37 per cent. 12th April to 9th May 1900, 100 European cases, fatality 37 per cent. 9th May to 9th August 1900, 93 European cases, fatality 23 per cent. In Sydney the disease was at its full virulence from the beginning, and became milder towards the close of the epidemic. The Indian Plague Commission also found a variation in mortality with the phase of the epidemic. A study of the curve of incidence and curve of case mortality in the case of Bombay city shows that at the beginning and end of an epidemic the number of cases and the case mortality of these are lowest, both curves rising together to a maximum and falling again. In Bombay Presidency and native states con- nected with it, from September 1896 to 1st January 1900 there were 392,285 reported^ cases, with 308,140 reported deaths (excluding Euro- peans), a case mortality of 78'53 per cent, vary- ing from 83"7 to 59*3 per cent during this period. The figures are certainly very inaccurate, as all statistics must be from countries like India and China, and probably do not give a true idea of the case mortality. The influence of sex on mortality does not appear to be marked in India or South Africa. Out of 5294 Indian cases collected by the Com- mission the male case mortality was 71'15 per cent, the female 69'37 per cent. In South Africa, out of 638 males 47 per cent died, and out of 238 females 50-8 per cent. The fatal character of plague in pregnant women has an influence in this connection. 6. Morbid Anatomy and Bacteriology (1) Morbid Anatomy. — The pathological features of plague are congestion of the organs, tendency to haemorrhages, inflammation and surrounding oedema of the lymphatic glands, with the occurrence of the bacillus pestis in the glands and usually also in the internal organs. (a) External Appearances.—The body is usu- ally well nourished and rigor mortis may be well marked. Examination of the groin, axilla, or neck may show buboes surrounded by consider- able oedema. Petechise are frequently observed on the chest and limbs. Phlyctenules may be present on the limb upon which the bubo is present. (6) Internal Appearances—Lymphatic System. —The entire lymphatic glandular system of the body is frequently involved, even in those cases which show no external bubo. On section of the skin overlying a bubo, a copious infiltration of an cedematous jelly-like fluid and hsemor- rhages are met with in the periglandular tissues. The glands on section appear dark red or black- ish in colour, very juicy, often soft and pulpy; abscess formation or necrosis of the gland tissue may be found. The bubo may consist of several glands more or less matted together. Chains of glands similarly affected may be found leading from the bubo, and frequently such chains are found leading from the groin to the sacral and lumbar glands, and from the axilla to the medi- astinal glands. These secondarily affected glands may show less change than the original bubo. The glands and periglandular infiltration are found to be swarming with plague bacilli. In pneumonic plague it is common to find the bronchial glands involved, and in septicsemic plague the lymphatic glands in various parts of the body are found to be implicated. Haemorrhages are a characteristic feature in the pathology of this disease. They may occur all over the body; in addition to the lymph glands already referred to, they may occur on the surface and in the substance of most of the organs of the body, the commonest sites being the lungs, heart, liver, spleen, and kidneys. The colour varies from a bright red to a reddish black or black, and the size from a minute pin- point to several inches in extent. In pneumonic plague the lungs nearly always show these hae- morrhages, extending inwards from the surface. Haemorrhages may also be found in the skin. Brain, Meninges, and Spinal Cord.—These are usually congested and may show haemor- rhages. A serous or sero-purulent exudate laden with plague bacilli may be found on the pia mater, especially along the vessels, and the ventricular fluid may be increased. The sub- stance of the brain, spinal cord, and nerves present a normal appearance. Lungs and Pleura.—The pleura may show engorgement, and haemorrhages and exudates,