45 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES experienced the " loss of wind " as the result of a blow on the abdomen. The glossopharyngeal, which supplies the back of the tongue, when stimulated, as by the passage of food in the act of swallowing, causes an instant arrest of the respiratory movements either in inspiration or expiration. The ad- vantage of this in preventing the food as it is swallowed from passing into the trachea is obvious (Fig. 149, d and d'). Stimulation of the Cutaneous Nerves stimu- lates the inspiratory centre and causes a deep inspiration. This is seen when cold water is dashed upon the skin, and is more clearly demonstrated in animals with the vagi and upper nerve tracts cut across. In such animals if the skin be touched an inspiratory movement is made. The temperature of an animal also acts on the respiratory centre. Increase in temperature accelerates the rate of the heart—so, too, it accelerates the rate of the respirations, and in about the same proportion, as is seen in feverish attacks, where pulse and respiration are pro- portionately quickened so that their ratio remains unaltered. When the respiratory rate rises out of proportion to the rate of the pulse, it is usually an indication that some pulmonary irritation is present. VII. Interaction of Circulation and Respira- tion.—The lungs and heai-t being packed tightly together in the air-tight thorax, and both undergoing periodic changes, necessarily in- fluence one another. At the same time, the close proximity of the respiratory and cardio- motor centres in the medulla seems to lead to the activity of one influencing the other. Influence of Respiration on Circulation.—The circulation is modified in two ways by respira- tion. First, the rate of the heart, and second, the arterial blood pressure undergo alterations. \st. Rate of Heart.—If a sphygmographic trace giving the pulse waves during the course of two or three respirations be examined, it will be found that during inspiration the heart is acting more rapidly, while during expiration its action is slower. If the vagus be cut these changes are not seen, showing that the inspiratory acceleration is not the result simply of the larger amount of blood which enters the heart during inspiration, but is really due to changes in the cardio-motor centre—the accelerating part of which has its activity increased during inspiration, while the inhibitory part is more active during expiration. This is, therefore, a reflex effect from the lung through the vagus, and it may be in part due to the proximity of the centres in the medulla. But not only is the pulse more rapid during inspiration and slower during expiration, but the waves are smaller during inspiration and larger during expiration. The size of the wave depends much upon the pressure of blood in the arteries, and this change in the pulse thus leads to the fuller consideration of the changes in the arterial pressure due to respiration. ^nd. Changes in Blood Pressure.—If a tracing of the arterial pressure and of the respiratory movements be taken at the same time, it is found that there is a general rise of pressure during inspiration and a general fall during expiration, but that at the beginning of inspira- tion the pressure is still falling, and at the beginning of expiration it is still rising. This influence of respiration on arterial pressure is chiefly a mechanical one, depending on the variations in the pressure in the thorax during inspiration and expiration. During inspiration the pressure in the thorax falls to below the atmospheric pressure, and thus during this period the heart and great vessels are under a diminished pressure. This diminution in pressure has little influence on the thick-walled ventricles and arteries, but tells markedly on the thin-walled auricles and veins. In these there occurs a diminution in pressure, which, in the case of the vena cava, may fall below an atmospheric pressure, and as a result an increased flow of blood into these vessels from the veins ovitside the thorax takes place (Fig. 141). But when more blood enters the heart the activity of the organ is increased, and more blood is pumped through it into the arteries, and the pressure in these rises. This explains the great rise in arterial blood pressure during inspiration. During expiration the pressure in the thorax rises to above the atmospheric pressure, and thus the pressure on the vessels in the thorax is increased. This tells on the thin-walled veins and auricles; and thus the flow of blood into them is retarded (Fig. 149), and less blood passing into the heart, less is pumped into the arteries, and the arterial pressure falls. This, however, does not explain the slight fall of pressure at the beginning of inspiration, or the slight rise at the beginning of expiration. To understand these, the action of the pulmonary circulation has to be taken into account. As inspiration develops the lungs are dilated, and the capillaries in them are also expanded. These expanding capillaries require more blood to fill them. They are situated on the course of the blood from the right side to the left side of the heart, and thus blood is retained from this stream to fill them, and less blood passes on into the left side of the heart, and out into the arteries, and a small fall in the arterial pressure occurs at the beginning of inspiration (Fig. 149). Similarly, at the beginning of expiration the lungs are compressed and their blood-vessels squeezed, and thus the blood is driven out from them. Now, this blood cannot pass back into