318 PROSTATE GLAND rectum ; it may escape by the urethra, perforate the wall of the bladder, or penetrating outside the walls of that viscus it may evacuate itself into the cavity of the peritonseum. Symptoms of acute abscess have been already indicated, but those of chronic abscess are often insidious in their onset, and the progress of the disease is slow. Not infrequently the suppuration arises in old neglected cases of stricture of the urethra in cases where the prostate is hypertrophied or where the catheter has been improperly used. Prostatic calculus may also excite the formation of chronic abscess. Prognosis.—In acute abscess the outlook is usually favourable, but the formation of a chronic abscess is always a serious matter, and may lead to complete destruction of the gland, which is replaced by a pus-forming sac, and the patient suffers from fever, emaciation, and not infrequently exhaustion from septic poisoning aids to a fatal termination. The treatment, as soon as fluctuation can be made out, is free incision in the middle line and drainage. Small incisions opening into the bowel, or aspiration, deserve and meet with no success. 4. Urinary fistula not infrequently follows the opening of a chronic prostatic abscess, especially if the patient has an old urethral stricture. These fistulous openings are often difficult to heal. The first indication as to treatment is to relieve the stricture, and when this has been accomplished the patient should be taught to use a soft rubber catheter at regular intervals until urine ceases to escape by the fistula. (c) Atrophy of the pjrostate is occasionally met with in old age, and in those in whom the sexual desires are feebly developed, in eunuchs, and in those who have been deprived of their testicles by disease. The condition does not give rise to any symptoms, and is of little surgical importance. {d) Hypertrophy of the prostate pertaining to old age is by a long way the most common and the most important lesion of the prostate met with in surgical practice. Clinically, the enlargement of the gland is the important fact. The special structural features are of secondary concern. The enlargements of the prostate in those of advanced years have been divided pathologically according to the structural changes observed. By far the most serious change in old age is the increase in the muscular elements, together with fibrosis of the organ. This hyperplasia exists in about 30 per cent of men over 60 years old, and is seldom met with in those under the age of 50. Not only may the muscular structures increase in bulk, but in a few instances there may be also an augmentation of the glandular, so that we may have an adenoma of the prostate. The lesion of old age is a fibrosis and muscular hyperplasia in almost all cases. A true hypertrophy is unknown, but as in all glandular organs so also in the prostate, occasionally adenomata may be found. In so-called " hypertrophy" of the prostate the progress of the disease is slow, and as a rule those who have led sedentary lives are more liable to an attack, but beyond this fact little is known regarding the etiology of the malady. Many predisposing causes have been named,— syphilis, urethral stricture, gout, rheumatism, vesical calculus, etc.,—but their influence as etiological factors has not been proved, beyond the circumstance that they induce a passive hyperajmia of the lower urinary tract. It is a circumstance worthy of note that men who have been deprived of their testicles by opera- tion, accident, or disease, never have enlarged prostates. This enlargement of the prostate diff"ers from hypertrophy of all other organs excepting the uterus in the fact that the onset docs not coincide with the period of greatest functional activity of the gland, and an increase in bulk is not due to an augmentation of its active elements. Structurally, the change in many respects resembles a fibrosis due to passive hypersemia, and therefore is comparable to the analogous enlargement of the uterus (fibro-myoma). The prostate may enlarge uniformly and attain considerable dimensions without causing much discomfort to the patient. On the other hand, without any great general enlargement, there may be a local increase in bulk of the middle lobe only. The effects of this are sometimes very marked. The middle lobe projects upwards, at the neck of the bladder, and may act like a valve to the orifice of the urethra. Or the urethra may be pushed upwards and forwards so that on section the canal is of crescentic form with the concavity looking downwards. When the hypertrophy is general the prostatic portion of the urethra, which normally measures 1^ inches, may be extended in length to 4 inches, and the weight of the gland from being a little over half an ounce may be increased to 10 ounces. When the prostate weighs more than 7 drachms it may be described as abnormal in size. The symptoms of hypertrophy of the prostate depend upon the nature and the position of the new-formed tissue. When the hyperplasia uniformly involves the whole organ a con- siderable period may elapse between the onset of the disease and the evidence of its presence. While on the other hand if the growth involves the middle lobe only, there may be the occur- rence of marked symptoms before much enlarge- ment of the gland can be made out by digital examination per rectum. The first indication of increase in the size of the prostate gland is a diminution in the force by which the urine is expelled, then micturition becomes more frequent, and the relief given by the act is incomplete. Should any undue accumulation