449 PYURIA Examination of the Urine.—The appearance imparted by the addition of pus varies according to the quantity present, and the character of the other morbid constituents in the urine. In cases where the pyuria is due to septic lesions of the kidney only, the pus appears as a thick, opaque, creamy sediment, which on standing is rapidly and almost completely pre- cipitated from an acid urine; the supernatant fluid is comparatively clear, is free from mucus, and does not decompose rapidly. On the other hand, where the pus is derived from the bladder alone, or in conjunction with a renal lesion, pus is not deposited quickly; when it falls it is precipitated along with glairy mucus, the urine in which it remains partly suspended is alkaline, and decomposition often begins before the urine escapes from the bladder. The time at which the pus appears in the stream should be ascer- tained if possible. The appearance of pus at the beginning of micturition, during the whole flow, or at the end of the act only, lends additional significance to the symptom. The precaution to ascertain the moment at which morbid constituents appear in the stream has already been referred to in connection with hsematuria. Sir Henry Thompson, in his Clinical Lectures on Diseases of the Urinary Organs, 8th edition, pages 12 and 452, gives the following valuable suggestions:—"When- ever you want a specimen from your patient to examine, do not tell him to send you a bottle of it passed in the usual way, or you will get a mixture often of doubtful value. What you require is the secretion of the kidneys, plus only anything there may be in the bladder; but you also have to avoid the presence in it of any secretion which originated in the urethra. Make a point of demanding that the patient should first pass two or three tablespoonfuls through the urethra, so as to sweep out what- ever may happen to be there (which may be thrown away, or be put into a separate bottle), after which you will get a pure specimen for examination—at any rate one of which you will know the source. You will have the renal secretion, plus only whatever deposit may be produced in the bladder. Suppose the patient has gleet or chronic prostatitis, there will then be a quantity of muco-purulent matter in the urethra. If all this be carried into one vessel with the urine, how will you determine the different products, and decide, by the eye or by the microscope, what has come from the urethra, what from the prostate, and what from the kidneys 1 You cannot do it; but if you get rid of the source of error by flushing the urethra, so to speak, that is, by passing the first two or three tablespoonfuls into a wine- glass, while all that follows is passed into a separate vessel, such as a tumbler, you will have in the latter a sample of urine that can be relied upon for examination. VOL. VIII " The necessity for avoiding admixture of urethral products with urine, in order to ensure a pure specimen, has been enjoined, and the mode of attaining the object by the use of two glasses. It is sometimes quite as essential to avoid its admixture with products of the bladder. And it is not possible to make an absolute diagnosis in some few exceptional cases with- out following the method in question. When, therefore, it is essential to obtain a pure speci- men of the renal secretion free from the presence of vesical products, I pass a soft flexible catheter, of medium size, into the bladder, the patient standing, draw ofi^ all the urine, carefully wash out the viscus by repeated small injections of warm water, and then permit the urine to pass, as it will do, guttatim, into a test-tube, or other small glass vessel, for purposes of examination. The bladder ceases for a time to be a reservoir; it does not expand, but is contracted round the catheter, and the urine percolates from the ureters direct. The ureters are virtually lengthened as far as to the glass. Thus is obtained a specimen which, for appreciating albumin, for determining reaction, and for freedom from vesical pus and even blood, and from cell-growths of vesical origin, is of con- siderable value, and has sometimes furnished me with the only data previously wanting to accomplish an exact diagnosis." The clinical significance of pyuria in many respects resembles that of hsematuria, but differs from it in so far that an accurate diagnosis of the portion of the urinary tract from which the pus comes is more difficult to make. Diagnosis of Origin Pus from the urethra, as in hfematuria from the same situation, escapes independently of micturition, or is only mixed with the first few drops of urine; in fact, together with the presence of pain in the region, is usually sufficient to determine its origin. In such in- stances the quantity of pus is usually small and appears in flakes or threads. These are casts of ducts leading into the urethra, or threads of pus and macerated epithelium from granular patches swept away in the first portion of the stream. These urethral casts or shreds must not be mistaken for somewhat similar discharge occasionally observed in tuberculosis of the urinary tract. When urethral in origin they can be expressed from the canal before and after micturition. When the inflammation is situated in the posterior part of the urethra it may give rise to vesical irritation and some difficulty to micturition. The diagnosis can generally be cleared up by pressure upon the urethra in the perineum or rectum towards the end of micturition when pus is found to exude. It is otherwise in catarrh of the bladder, in which case the pus only escapes mixed with the urine, is more or less abundant, and is accom- 29