402 PULSE, THE and the volume of the brain is thus diminished. Hence the membrane is drawn inwards, and the arterial pulsations which occur during the in- spiratory phase are of smaller size (Fig. 34). Exactly the opposite thing happens during ex- piration—distension of the brain and bulging of the fontanelle. With a high intracranial tension—bulging fontanelle—the respiratory . undulations become less marked, while with a low intracranial tension—depression of the fon- tanelle—they are well developed. The Interpretation of Features due to Instru- mental Defect. — Some of the features in the sphygmogram which we know not to be depen- dent upon true arterial waves may, nevertheless, be turned to good account. The height of the up-stroke made by the needle depends so much Fig. 37.—Pulse of aortic regurgita- tion. To show the small size of the dicrotic wave, and its posi- tion at the lowest part of the tracing. Fig. 35.—Sphygmogram from radial artery during an attack of dyspnoea with marked contraction of the peripheral arteries. Kadial calibre 2'4 mm. Systolic wave slanting, blood pressure relatively high. upon conditions and methods of applying the instrument that it has, as a rule, little signifi- cance. But in some instances, where a series of tracings is carefully made on the same patient when there is reason to believe that his radial calibre is undergoing daily variations, then the height of the up-stroke is of some suggestive moment. It will afford some indication of the state of tonus of the vessel. In the tightly con- tracted state the play of the arterial wall will certainly be much less than when the artery is fully relaxed. The writer has taken many sphygmograms to illustrate this point, and has confirmed the results obtained by measurements of the calibre of the radial artery by means of Oliver's arteriometer (Fig.-^. 35 and 36). Trac- ings made under the influence of amyl-nitrite nearly a right angle to the moving smoked surface ; it may rise in a more slanting direction, or it may sometimes be distinctly bent inwards during its ascent. A sudden rise of the needle indicates that there is a rel- atively strong ven- tricle, and that the distribution of the blood through the arterial system is unimpeded. This is seen in some cases of aortic regurgitation, and the systolic wave in such a tracing may have a double summit, and that of the first may be looped. The modification of the systolic wave in such cases is purely of instrumental origin—it does not imply coexisting stenosis. A similar summit may be obtained in any case where pyrexia has excited the ventricle and dilated the peripheral vessels. A distin- guishing feature in the sphygmogram of aortic incompetence is the small size of the dicrotic wave and its position at the lowest part of the tracing (Fig. 37). When a relatively strong ventricle is act- ing against some peripheral resistance the up-stroke of the tracing may also be sudden, but a smaller systolic wave is produced. The. summit is again divided, and the first apex may 6.—Tracing from the same case after treatment by nitrites, showing in ilse, larger and more vertical systolic wave; exaggerated dicrotism, Fig. 36. pulse, . . _ abortive contractions of the ventricle. Arteries are relaxed- prove that the height of the up-stroke is some- times a feature from which certain conclusions may be drawn. The direction of the up-stroke is of much greater importance. It may rise vertically—at FIG. 38.—To show the kind of sphygmogram sometimes produced when a relatively strong ventricle is acting against consider- able peripheral resistance. (Instrumental defect.) be looped, acute, or rounded, while there i sometimes a considerable fall of the needl towards the abscissa before the second wave i developed. This secon wave may be also un usually pointed owing to the inertia of the needl {see Figs. 30 and 38). With a relatively wea' ventricle and norma peripheral resistance the up-stroke is apt be more oblique; and i an instrumental apex t the systolic wave 1 formed, it is a small one. The up-stroke ma be incurved where the ventricle is powerful, an the peripheral resistance increased. It is a instrumental defect (Fig. 39). With regard to the fall of the needle it ma increased volume of especially in the radial calibre 2 7 mm.