297 PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—HAEMORRHAGE has not been definitely decided. In answering such a question much depends upon the defini- tion we attach to the word menstruation. If the latter is understood to mean merely a peri- odical discharge, there is apparently no reason why it should not occur. Undoubtedly the uterus undergoes some form of stimulation, even during pregnancy, at what would have been the menstrual periods if the patient had not been pregnant. Under such circumstances, it is not very difficult to believe that the attendant con- gestion may cause a slight hcemorrhagic discharge from an ulcerated cervix, a polypus, or even from the inflamed decidua vera covering the lower pole of the uterus before this membrane has come into contact with the decidua reflexa, that is, before the third month. If, however— as is the more correct definition—we consider the term to be applicable only to the physio- logical discharge which accompanies the monthly destruction and expulsion of the uterine endo- metrium, it is obviously impossible that men- struation could take place during pregnancy without causing abortion. The cases of supposed menstruation during pregnancy can almost in- variably be accounted for by some pathological condition of the uterus or cervix. The regular occurrence of a monthly discharge during the whole of pregnancy points almost invariably to the existence of a double uterus. Pajot says that, while the haemorrhagic discharges which occur during pregnancy may have some char- acters which cause them to resemble menstru- ation, they invariably differ from the latter in their duration, and in the quantity and quality of the blood. Pinard states that there has never yet been observed a single case of the persistence of menstruation in a pregnant woman. Dakin considers that, " while one monthly bleeding may be allowed to pass as a menstruation in the absence of any discoverable cause, or of any further disturbance, any repeti- tion of this should always be looked upon as a threatening of abortion, and the patient treated on this assumption." American authorities, on the other hand, do not regard the persistence of menstruation as so impossible or improbable. Lusk considers that the occurrence of pregnancy is not incompatible with the existence of a periodical flow—to which, however, he is careful not to apply the term menstruation. Parvin states that a monthly flow may occur once or oftener during pregnancy, or ■even persist during the whole period. While Palmer, of Ohio, records the case of a patient of his own who never menstruated except when she was pregnant! The general attitude of modern authorities, in the case of patients who consider themselves to be pregnant while they are still menstruating, may be summed up in the words of Stoltz: Rarely will one be deceived who regards a woman menstruating regularly, with all the characters of menstruation, as not pregnant; while trusting the contrary opinion, he is ex- posed to frequent errors." HAEMORRHAGE FROM TUMOURS Myomata.—Myomata of the uterus generally cause sterility, and consequently are not a very frequent complication of pregnancy. Intra- uterine myomata may, during pregnancy or labour, give rise to accidental haemorrhage by causing the detachment of the placenta, owing to the irregularity their presence imparts to the uterine contractions. Subsequent to delivery they are a very common cause of post-partum hsemorrhage. Myomata of the cervix, or pedun- culated myomata of the uterus which project into the vagina, may give rise to constant small hfemorrhages during pregnancy, and have been found as the cause of those periodical discharges which simulated menstruation. Treatment.—For the treatment of myomata of the body of the uterus complicating preg- nancy, the reader is referred to the article on these tumours. Small or large polypoid myo- mata projecting into the vagina or cervical canal must be twisted away, or cut away, accord- ing as is necessary. The constant hsemorrhagic discharge which they cause weakens the patient; there is a great risk of their being deprived of their blood supply and sloughing, and they may off"er an obstruction to the delivery of the child when labour comes on. There is little or no risk of their removal causing the onset of labour. Malignant Disease.—Malignant disease of the cervix or vagina will cause a more or less continuous hcemorrhagic and perhaps sanious discharge during the whole of pregnancy. It will also favour the occurrence of abortion owing to the anaemia and cachexia it induces. The rapidity of its growth is very marked during pregnancy, while after the expulsion of the foetus there is a temporary check. Treatment. — If the existence of malignant disease is determined in the early months of pregnancy, abortion ought to be induced, whether the case is one in which a radical operation is possible, or whether it is not. In the former, the induction of labour is a matter of course; in the latter, it should be performed in order to check the otherwise i-apid growth. If the patient is in the later months of preg- nancy, and the radical removal of the growth is possible, labour ought to be induced irre- spective of the condition of the foetus. If the growth is inoperable, and our decision lies be- tween the extraction of a premature or immature foetus through the vagina, or a full-term foetus by Csesarean section, we must be largely or entirely influenced by the wishes of the patient. In a case in which we determine to wait, a temporary check may be given to the discharge by curetting away any very prominent masses