RHEUMATISM—RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS 562 to advance in order from periphery to trunk. Joints may be picked out for attack without reference to anatomical sequence (Fig. 1). Sym- FlG. 1. metry is more apparent in the earlier and more rapidly progressive cases. In those less active the disease shows a tendency to remain local- ised in a few joints. The changes, once begun, have no spontaneous tendency to recover, and the joint becomes the seat of a gradually progressive disorganisation, unless the disease is arrested by treatment. The actual condition of the joint varies. Clinically, two main varieties of joint change are noticeable. (a) The joint assumes the shape of a more or less symmetrical truncated spindle, it is swelled, its normal contour is obscured, and its bony landmarks are difficult to make out. The impression received on examination is that the soft parts, both within and without the joints, are J uniformly swelled and thickened. This form is well seen in the finger-joints, and is shown in Fig. 2. The joint is tender to touch. Fig. 2. sometimes even hot, and movement is painful and limited. The terminal inter-phalangeal joints frequently escape attack. Not rarely the joint contains fluid, and definite fluctuation is present. In other cases no fluid can be made out, but the joint has a characteristic doughy, semi-elastic feel. The metacarpo-phalangeal joints suff'er frequently, especially those of the first and second fingers. That of the little finger is usually less affected. No bony out-growths may be present, no lipping, nor any gross bony changes. The condition is suggestive of a chronic inflammatory over-growth of the soft parts of the joint, especially of the synovial membrane. Schiiller proposes calling this form chronic villous arthritis (arthritis chronica villosa). (6) The other type of joint change presents a striking contrast to that described above. The joint is enlarged, but the enlargement is irreg- ular and often nodular. The bony landmarks are more, rather than less, prominent, and there is obvious bony enlargement; lipping of the articular surface, and definite osseous ovit- growths can often be made out. Tenderness on manipulation is not usually very marked, though some areas of the joint may be decidedly tender on deep pressure. Movement is limited and painful, and may be attended with marked grating, due either to actual contact of bony surfaces, or more often, probably, to creaking of thickened periarticular tissues. The joint may become completely immobile and apparently ankylosed, or the bony out-growths may be so situated as mechanically to lock the joint. There is usually no excess of fluid in these joints. This form also can be well studied in the hand, especially in the metacarpo-phalangeal or carpo-metacarpal joints of the thumb. The terminal phalanges may show Heberden's nodes at their bases. This type is shown in Fig. 3. Fig. 3. Speaking generally, the first group represents the more acute form of the disease and occurs in younger patients, the second the more chronic form. In some late cases the joint shows a combina- tion of bony enlargement or nodosities, with increased thickening of soft parts and fluid eff"usion, but it is certain that joints may exhibit typically the bony changes last described with- out having passed through a stage of general spindle-like swelling or fluid effusion. Tlie two varieties have clinically well-defined characters which merit separate description, and it seems certain that spindle-shaped swelling is not mei-ely the early stage of an arthritis which passes inevitably into a condition of bony out- growth and enlargement. (c) In a third condition occasionally seen, some joints of the fingers, especially the ter- minal inter-phalangeal joints, seem actually smaller than usual, and their movements more than normally free. They are painless, and