501 REFRACTION angles to the binghtest ray. All that remains is to appose minus cylinders, with their axes at right angles to the brightest ray, till we find the one which makes rays at right angles to the originally brightest one equally bright also. It is prudent not to be content with this, but to make a final appeal to the distant test- types, for which it will often be found that a slightly weaker cylinder is best, and I have even met with a case now and then in which a slight diff'erence of axis is preferred. When such discrepancies occur, it appears probable that the line-test is more strictly true, but that the type-tests indicate the lens which it is ex- pedient to prescribe, at least for a time. In testing the second eye, it saves time, in view of the pi-edilection which As. displays for bi- lateral symmetry, to commence with lenses similar to those already found for the first eye. Estimation of Refraction. — Though this has been dealt with under each heading, the following general order of procedure may be described :— Having glanced at the patient's eyes to see whether they are deep set and with contracted pupils, as in emmetropia; or whether they are prominent and with large pupils, as in myopia; and whether the eyelids look tired or drawn, and the forehead frowning, as in refractive asthenopia ;—the outer canthus of each eye may be drawn back, while the eye is made to look strongly in the opposite direction to observe whether the side of the globe is short and strongly curved as in hypermetropia, or with a long gradual curve as in myopia. The ten- sion of the eye should be tested as a matter of habit to observe the normal variations. The visual acuity both in distant and near vision (see ai't. on Visual A.) should next be recorded, and the near point measured. Next, one of the two chief objective tests should be applied— retinoscopy (q-v.), or ophthalmometry. The latter is described a little farther on. The patient should now be seated at a measured distance of 5 to 6 metres from the distant test- types, with a trial frame on his face beai'ing the correction already found, and with a circular vulcanite disc, called an obturator, in front of one eye. The best trial frames have obturators hinged on to them so that they cannot be lost. The defect of all trial frames which the writer is acquainted with is that they admit distract- ing side-lights to the patient's eyes. It would be better were they provided with side screens. The objective finding for each eye should be confirmed by the apposition of weak -1- and — spherical and cylindrical lenses, and the axis of a cylinder be carefully adjusted, since its position sometimes differs during attention of the eye from that which it occupies when the eye is disengaged, as during retinoscopy. The visual acuity then obtained shoiild be made a note of. Should no objective test have been made first, the procedure may be as follows :— A. Covering one eye with the obturator, test the vision of the naked eye by the distant test- types. Should the visual acuity be practically perfect, myopia cannot be present, nor high astigmatism. It remains, therefore, to test for H or low As. To do the first, a very weak and then a stronger convex lens may be put up before the eye. If the legibility of the lower distant types is impaired by a +0-25D, and almost abolished by a + 0"75I) lens, there is no manifest H. Should the legibility be unaiFected by either of these lenses, put up stronger ones till the highest power is reached that does not distinctly impair legibility. This lens measures the manifest H (Hn,). B. Should, however, the visual acuity of the naked eye have been poor at first, the case may be one of myopia. Try, therefore, a rising series of concave lenses till the weakest is foimd that affords the best obtainable vision. C. Next, test for astigmatism, by directing attention to a line-chart with any previously found myopia slightly under-corrected, or hyper- metropia over-corrected. If lines in some certain direction stand out moi-e boldly than others, proceed, as already described under "Astigmatism," by putting up concave lenses, with axes perpendicular to these bold lines, till the lines are made equally bright in all direc- tions, and then confirm the result by the test- types. If two consecutive cylmdey-s appear to have the same effect, retain the weakest^ whether -f or - . From this remark it will be seen that the rule for the strongest convex and weakest concave does not apply to cylinders, but only to spherical lenses. To summarise, if the naked eye has A. Full visual acuity. There is either (a) Emmetropia, or (6) Hypermetropia (facultative), or (c) Low astigmatism. B. Poor visual acuity. There is either (a) Myopia, or (6) High hypermetropia (not fully neutralised by accommodation), or (c) Astigmatism. Prisms and the Decentering of Lenses.— It is sometimes desirable to combine a prism with a lens, especially in hyperphoria (q.v.) or for diplopia. The simple rule may be made that a prism appears to drive the image seen through it in the direction of its " edge" or "apex." If a simple mnemonic metaphor may be permitted, the image flies before the edge of the sword. If strong, the prism should be divided between the two eyes. The prismatic result can be obtained by decentering a lens, the rule being that for each degree of pi-ismatic effect desired, the lens should be decentered by a distance equal to If cm., divided by the