RED SANDERS-WOOD 491 Red Sanders-Wood. *S'ee Ptbrocabpi Lignum. Redla.nds. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts (American). Redressement Forc6.—The forcible correction of a deformity. Reducing'.—Depriving of its oxygen, e.g. a substance {"reducing substance ") occasionally found in the urine in tuberculous meningitis (q.v.). Reduction. See Hernia (Treatment, Reduction, False, In Mass," etc.). Reduplication. See Heart, Affec- tions OF Myocardium and Endocardium (Physi- cal Examination, Auscultation). Redux Crepitus.—Small mucous rales heard in auscultation at the beginning of the stage of resolution (redux, a return to health) in pneumonia. See Pneumonia. Red-Water Fever.—Texas Fever. See Parasites (Sporozoa of Texas Fever). Reflex and Reflexes. See Spinal Cord, Medical (Symptomatology, Reflexes); Tendon-Jerks. See also Alcoholism (Chronic, Impairment of Reflexes); Angina Pectoris (Varieties, Reflex Angina); Asphyxia (Pheno- mena, Abolition of Reflexes); Brain, Phy'Siology of (Scheme of Light Reflex, Fig. 9); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels (Paralysis, State of Reflexes) ; Brain, Tumours of (Localising Symptoms, Reflexes); Brain, Surgery of (Con- cussion and Compression, Symptoms); Diarrhcba (Varieties, Reflex); Epilepsy (Etiology, Reflex); Hemiplegia (Motor Symptoms, Reflexes) ; Hydro- cephalus (Chronic, Symptoms, Reflexes); Hys- teria (Motor Disorders, Reflexes) ; Nerves, Neuralgia (Etiology, Symptoms); Nose, Nasal Neuroses; T^aralysis(SpasticParalysis,Landry's Paralysis, Acute Anterior Poliomyelitis, Progres- sive Muscular Atrophy, etc.); Physiology, Neuro- muscular Mechanism (Reflex Action); Physi- ology, Spinal Cord (Reflex Functions); Pupil (Size); Spinal Cord, Medical (Physiology, Symptomatology, Reflexes); Tabes Dorsalis (Symptomatology, Reflexes); Tetany (Symptoms, Reflexes). Refraction. Refraction . . . . ' . .491 Plane Glass 492 Prisms ...... 492 Lenses ...... 492 Conjugate Foci .... 493 Cylinders . . . . . 493 Measiirement of Lenses . . .494 Emmetropia 495 Hypermetropia ..... 496 Myopia 497 Presbyopia ...... 498 Astigmatism ...... 499 Estimation of Refraction . . .501 Prisms and Decentering of Lenses . 501 Refractive Headaches .... 502 See also Glaucoma (Symptoms, Changes of Refraction); Retinoscopy ; etc. Refraction is the name given to the change of direction from their former course of what are conventionally termed ^ " rays of light " when they pass obliquely from one medium into another of different density. It is accounted for by the altered velocity of light in the second medium. In water, for example, light travels at three-fourths, and in glass at two-thirds, of its speed in air. The " optical density " of various substances, by which we mean their power of retarding light, varies pretty closely with their physical densities, as if retardation of light de- pended on the quantity of matter contained in a given space. When light falls on a plane surface bounding two media, as, e.g., when it passes out of air into plane glass, the perpendicular ray (Oa in Fig. 1) is undefiected, Ijut all other rays fall obliquely, and are deflected towards the per- pendicular ray, as if they came from a point 0' farther away from the glass. This point 0' is called the virtual image of 0, because to an eye situated in the substance of the glass, as illus- trated in the figure, 0 would appear to be at 0'. Fig. 1. Fig. 2. The distance Oa is to the distance O'a as the speed of light in glass is to its speed in air, namely, as two to three. To find the expression for the optical density of a substance we have to invert this fraction, for the speed of light varies in- versely with the density of the substance through which it passes. The fraction thus inverted is called the " index of refraction " for that sub- stance, and is represented by the letter /x. In the case of glass is but slightly over 1 '5.2 When light travels out of a denser into a rarer medium, as out of glass into air (Fig. 2), the ^ Ray.s of light are merely directions in which light travels, being perpendiculars to the wave-fronts, and have no concrete existence, but this is not the place to enter into physical optics. ^ The term density-constant might be suggested as a better one than "index of refraction," if Sylvanus Thompson's terms of velocity-constant be adopted for the retardation of light, and since one of these constants is always the reciprocal of the other for any given substance, there is peculiar appropriateness in his selection of the letter h for the velocity-constant, for h inverted closely resembles fx..