362 PUERPERIUM, PHYSIOLOGY OF the child cannot get hold of it properly, and presses its nose against the breast, blocking the nostrils; it then has to let go the nipple in order to breathe. The frequent grasping and letting go discourages the child, produces sore- ness of the nipples, and leaves the breast in- sufficiently emptied. {See also "AiTections of Breast and Nipples," p. 369.) 6. Examination of the Pelvic Organs.—-Inas- much as many of the diseases of women are due to overlooked accidents occurring at the time of labour, and to unfavourable circumstances dur- ing the lying-in period, including too early a return to daily duties, it is important that an examination of the pelvic organs should be made before the patient is allowed to leave her bed. By the tenth or twelfth day in normal cases the vaginal outlet has nearly regained its noinnal dimensions, and there is no appreciable de- ficiency of the perineum. The lochia have practically ceased, although there may be a little return when the patient begins to sit up. The cervix is firm, its canal is contracted, and there are no deep lacerations. The uterus is movable, lies in a normal position, or is slightly " squatting" back, and is only a little above normal size, the sound entering for about 3 inches. The region of the broad ligaments is free of any effusion, and the ovaries and tubes can be felt, normal in size and position. 7. Getting up and going out.—It is advisable, in a normal case, that the patient should be allowed to occasionally sit propped up in bed at a fairly early stage of the puerperium, namely, from the fourth or fifth day; thus she may be allowed to sit up a little for her meals. The change of posture favours uterine and vaginal drainage. If an examination shows that the pelvic organs are in the healthy condition de- scribed in the previous paragraph, the patient may be transferred to a couch as early as the tenth day; it is, however, an advantage for her to remain in bed for a full fortnight. Getting up must be postponed when the involution of the uterus is not satisfactory, when the lochia remain abundant, or when a torn perineum has failed to heal properly ; whilst any effusion in the cellular tissue by the sides or in front of the uterus will necessitate a delay of some weeks. Undue laxity of the abdominal walls requires treatment at this early stage. Whatever the effect of the binder, a pendulovis belly or a condition of wide separation of the recti is due to enfeebled abdominal muscles; and nothing has such a good effect, both immediate and remote, on these conditions as the proper exer- cise of the muscles. After the first ten days the patient should be instructed to practise lying flat on her back, and raising herself into a sitting posture without using her hands and arms. This should be done for five or ten minutes at a time twice a day. Once the patient has begun to get up, a return to the ordinary mode of life should be effected in easy stages. After a couple of days on a couch, she may sit up in an easy-chair, and begin to walk a little. A few days more, and she may go into another room, downstairs if necessary. Then a fine morning or afternoon is made the opportunity for a drive; and lastly, she may walk out at the end of the third week or the beginning of the fourth. In hospital practice patients often get up on the ninth day, and go home on the thirteenth or fourteenth; but this is usually a matter of necessity rather than of expediency; and when circumstances allow of it, a patient should be directed to lead the quiet life of a semi-invalid for six weeks after delivery, that is, till involution is anatomi- cally complete. Pathological Section I. PUERPERAL INFECTION Definition . 362 Etiology ..... . 362 Clinical Features— Vulvitis and Vaginitis . 364 Endometritis .... . 364 Parametritis and Perimetritis . . 364 Septiccemia .... . 365 Pyatmia ..... . 366 Eiidocarditis .... . 366 Phlegmasia alha dolens . 367 Prophylaxis and Treatment . . 367 Local ..... . 368 General ..... . 369 Definition. — A wound infection due to the action of micro-organisms, and originating in the generative organs of parturient women. It is not exactly synonymous with the terms puer- peral septicsemia or puerperal fever, because it includes not only systemic infections, but also local inflammations. Etiology.—In considering the causation of this condition we may regard it from three aspects:—(1) The micro-organisms which pro- duce it, or the seeds of the disease; (2) the tissues involved, or the ground upon which the seeds are sown ; (3) the ways in which the in- fective matter is brought to the patients, or the sowers of the seed. The first of these has been fully dealt with under Micro-Organisms (vol. vi. p. 388), and it need here only be stated that in by far the greater number of cases streptococci are the cause both of the local affections and the general systemic disturbances ; out of 91 cases examined by Czerniewski, Widal, and Bumm, they were present in 85, or 94 per cent. The importance of other germs, either alone or in combination, in the production of puerperal infection has not been certainly determined, but there is little room to doubt that such infections have been due, in a certain number of cases, to colon bacilli, gonococci, bacillus pyocyaneus, bacillus foetid us,