44 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES has accumulated in the blood. After this ac- cumulation has been got rid of by the forcible respirations the activity of the centre again wanes. Decrease in the amount of oxygen in the blood acts in the same way, but since the amount of oxygen in the arterial blood varies much less than the amount of CO2, this factor plays a less important part in regulating breath- D/aph La Fig. 148.—Nervous mechanism of respiration. R.C., Respiratory centre; Cm(., cutaneous nerves; Ph., plirenics; In.C, intercostal nerves; P., pulmonary branches of vagus; S.L., superior laryngeal branch of vagus; La., the larynx; G.Ph., glossopharyngeal nerve ; Diaph., diaphragm. ing. At high altitudes the decrease in the pressure of oxygen in the air breathed, leading to its decreased amount in the blood, produces a marked increase of respiratory movements. But the respiratory centre is also acted upon by various ingoing nerves. Vagus.—Since the vagus is the ingoing nerve of the respiratory tract, we should expect it to have an important influence on the centre (Fig. 148). Section of one vagus causes the respiration to become slower and deeper ; but after a time the effect wears off and the previous rate and depth of respiration is regained (Fig. 149). Section of both vagi causes a very marked slowing and deepening of the respiration, which persists for some time, and passes off slowly and incompletely. But if, after the vagi have been cut, the connection of the centre with the iipper brain tracts is severed, the mode of action of the centre changes. Instead of discharging rhythmically, it may discharge irregularly. To investigate further this influence of the vagus it is necessary to study the effect of stimulating the nerve. Strong stimulation of the pulmonary branches of one vagus (vagus below the origin of the superior laryngeal) causes the respiration to become more and more rapid, the inspiratory phase being chiefly accentuated. If the stimu- lus is very strong, respirations are stopped in the phase of inspiration. Weak stimuli, on the other hand, may cause inhibition of inspiration. Such experiments prove that impulses are constantly travelling from the lungs to the centre, regulating the rhythmic activity of the centre. How do these impulses originate in the lungs 1 Apparently from their alternate expansion and contraction. If the lungs be forcibly inflated—e.g. with a bellows—the inspiration becomes feebler and feebler, and finally stops. The nature of the gas, if non-irritant, with which this inflation is carried out is of no consequence. If, on the other hand, the lungs be collapsed by sucking air out of them, the inspiration becomes more and more powerful, and may end in a spasm of the inspiratory muscles. This shows that with each ex- piration a stimulus passes up the vagus which acts upon the in- spiratory centre to make it dis- charge. The vagus is thus an excito-motor nerve, making the centre act in a reflex manner. With each collapse of the lung the vagus is thrown into action; as the lungs expand it ceases to act, and, as a result, the inspira- tory centre stops acting, the muscles of inspira- tion cease to contract, and expiration occurs. Action of other Ingoing Nerves on the Respira- tory Centre.—The upper part of the respiratory tract, the larynx, receives its sensory fibres from the vagus. Section of the superior laryngeal branch of the vagus does not alter the rhythm of respiration. Stimulation of the upper end of d' A Fig. 149.—Tracings of the respirations—downstroke is inspiration ; upstroke is expiration. At a one vagus nerve was cut; at 6 the second was divided ; at c the upper brain tracts also were cut off ; d and d' show the effect of stimulating the glossopharyngeal nerve. the cut nerve causes first an inhibition of in- spiration, and, if stronger, produces forced expiratory acts. This is well illustrated by the very common experience of the effect of a foreign body, such as a crumb, in the larynx. The fit of coughing is a series of expiratory acts produced through this nerve. Another set of visceral nerves having an important influence on the respiratory rhythm are the splanchnics. When these are stimu- lated inspiration is inhibited. Everyone has