RECTUM, DISEASES OF THE 488 ulceration require colotomy if linear rectotomy fails to cure. Half the cases of stricture with ulceration are syphilitic. If tertiary they are incurable. Thoroughly treated with drugs, scraping, etc., in an earlier stage, a favourable result may be procured. The next in order of frequency are the dysenteric, and lastly the tubercular. When the tubercle is local only, good results from inguinal colotomy and treatment of the ulcera- tion. The traumatic cases are generally curable by the means above desci'ibed. It is often stated that according to the posi- tion and character of ulceration the nature of the disease can be diagnosed. Really, all dis- eases causing stricture and ulceration may affect any part of the rectum, and the only rules that may be formulated, and they are often broken, are these :— (1) In syphilitic cases there is ulceration and stricture, a good deal of stricture being present with the ulceration. (2) In dysenteric cases there is much ulcera- tion, with some tendency to stricture. (3) In tubercular cases there is much ulcera- tion, rarely with stricture. (4) In traumatic cases there may be stricture with little or no ulceration. On the other hand, there may be ulceration with no stricture. Complete excision of stricture of the rectum has been practised. We consider the operation unjustifiable. Cancer op the Rectum.—The causation of this disease is unknown, and the part which heredity plays is matter of dispute. Middle age is the commonest time of life for its appearance, but the very old may be affected, and we have seen it at thirteen years of age. More men than women are attacked. Columnar-celled carcinoma is the common and typical form. Sarcomata do occur, and epithelioma is found at the anal margin. Scir- rhus, encephaloid, and colloid are the varying conditions of carcinoma. Carcinoma of the rectum is— (1) Laminar, the wall of the bowel being thickened between its mucous and muscular coats by growths spreading laterally. (2) Tuberous, the growth projecting into the bowel. (3) Annular, the growth commencing between the muscular and mucous coats, and spreading round the entire circumference of the rectum. Cancer of the rectum feels sometimes as though it had a pedicle. This is because it drag s upon the mucous membrane. At other times it feels like an ulcer surroimded by nodular, irregular edges, or, high up in the bowel, it may be felt as a hard growth, fixed or movable, combined with ulceration, and more or less completely embracing the circumference of the tube. Symptoms.—There are some signs which are practically certain indications of cancer. The peculiar odour of the discharge cannot be mis- taken by the experienced, and the continuous pain and the feel of the growths are unlike those caused by other rectal disorders. The waxen aspect of face occurs earlier in malignant disease of the rectum than with cancer else- where, but in some patients the appearance of vigorous health lasts till the disease is far ad- vanced. Treatment.—In considering the proper treat- ment to be adopted for these cases, which gener- ally means settling the question between ex- cision of rectum, colotomy, and no operation at all, the chief points of guidance are— (1) Age of the patient. (2) Position and extent of growth. (3) Nature of symptoms, viz. obstruction of bowels, hsemorrhage, or pain. If the patient's age is not over forty-five ex- cision is very rarely of advantage. The disease almost always returns in such subjects, even before the wounds are healed, and it is in only very exceptional instances that, on repeatedly removing recurrences, the disease at last ceases to appear. Colotomy prolongs life for a very short period in this class of case, and palliative treatment is generally the proper course. In persons between forty-five and sixty years of age excision is most favourable, and should be attempted when the growth is well within the lower part of the rectum. If it is high, colo- tomy must be performed, but not until obstruc- tive symptoms are marked and unrelieved by medicine. For patients above sixty excision is very suitable in cases where there is a fair chance of removing the whole growth. Colotomy is to be employed under the conditions just mentioned. As regards position the growth may be— (1) Near the anus, healthy mucous membrane being felt above it. (2) Higher up, but easily felt and moved, although its upper limit is not readily definable. (3) At the junction with the sigmoid, only just palpable by the finger. In the first case the growth should be freely excised, in the second Kraske's operation per- formed, if the patient agrees on understanding its nature and risks, and in the third colotomy is to be done when the symptoms warrant it. We do not believe that rapidity of growth is lessened by a colotomy which diverts fseces from the cancer; many persons by judicious palliative treatment have had life as long pro- longed as by an eai-ly colotomy. When, how- ever, obstruction is once marked colotomy should not be delayed, and the operation may be needed to check constant spurious diarrhoea, pain, and hemorrhage. Palliative treatment is employed in cases where excision is out of the question and colotomy not yet required. Rest,