PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 59 are broken down into sugars. Like other en- zyme actions the process requires the presence of water and a suitable temperature, and it is stopped by the presence of strong acids or alkalies, by various chemical substances, and by a temperature of over 60° C, while it is temporarily inhibited by reducing the tempera- ture to near the freezing point. During the short time the saliva acts on the food in the mouth the conversion is by no means complete. The starch is first changed into the dextrins, giving a brown colour with iodine, and hence called erythrodextrins, then into dextrins which give no colour with iodine, achroodexti-ins, and lastly into the disaccharid maltose (see p. 54). Physiology of Salivary Secretion.—In order to study the physiology of salivary secretion, a cannula may be inserted into the duct of any Fig. 159.—Nervous supply of the salivary glauds. Pan, Parotid, and S.M. and S.L., the submaxillary and sublingual glands ; VII., the seventh cranial nerve, with Ch.T., the chorda tympani nerve, passing to L., the lingual branch of V., the fifth nerve, to supply the glands below the tongue, T. ; IX., the glossopharnygeal, giving off J.N., .Jacobson's nerve, to the 0., otic ganglion, to supply the parotid gland through Aur.T., the auriculo-temporal nerve. of the salivary glands and the rate of flow of saliva or the pressure of secretion may be thus measured. In this way it may be shown that the taking of food, or simply the act of chewing, and in some cases the mere sight of food, causes a flow of saliva. This shows that the process of secretion is presided over by the central nervous system. The submaxillary and sublingual glands are supplied—(1) by branches from the lingual division of the fifth cranial nerve ; and (2) by branches of the perivascular sympathetic fibres coming from the superior cervical ganglion. The parotid gland is supplied by the auriculo- temporal division of the fifth and also by sympathetic fibres (Fig. 159). The influence of these nerves has been chiefly studied on the submaxillary and sublingual glands. It has been found that when the lingual nerve is cut the reflex secretion of saliva still takes place, but that when the chorda tympani {Ch.T.), a branch from the seventh nerve which joins the lingual, is cut, the reflex secretion does not occur. Stimulation of the chorda tympani causes a copious flow of watery saliva, and a dilatation of the blood-vessels of the glands. If atropine has been first administered, the dilata- tion of the vessels occurs without the flow of saliva. This indicates that the two processes are independent of one another. The secreting fibres all undergo interruption before the glands are reached; the fibres to the sublingual gland having their cell station in the submaxillary ganglion (S.M.G.), the fibres to the sub- maxillary gland having theirs in a little gan- glion at the hilus of the gland {S.M.). This was demonstrated by painting the two ganglia with nicotine (vol. vii. p. 550). When applied to the submaxillary ganglion the drug does not inter- fere with the passage of impulses to the sub- maxillary gland, but stops those going to the sublingual. If the duct of the gland be connected with a mercurial manometer, it is found that when the chorda tympani is stimulated the pressure of secretion may exceed the blood pressure in the carotid, showing that the saliva is not formed by filtration. When the perivascular sympathetics or when the sympathetic cord of the neck is stimulated, the blood-vessels of the gland constrict, and a flow of very viscous saliva takes place. On the parotid gland the auriculo-temporal nerve {Aur.T.) acts in the same way as the chorda tympani acts on the other salivary glands. But stimulation of the fifth nerve above the otic ganglion, from which the auriculo-temporal takes origin, fails to produce any effect. On the other hand, stimulation of the glossopharyngeal nerve {IX.), as it comes off" from the brain, acts upon the parotid gland. Since the glossopharyngeal is united by Jacob- son's nerve (J.JV.) to the small superficial petrosal which passes to the otic ganglion, it is obvious that the parotid fibres take this some- what round-about course. When the sympathetic fibres to the gland alone are stimulated, constriction of the blood- vessels but no flow of saliva occurs; but if, when the flow of watery saliva is being produced by stimulating the glossopharj'ngeal or Jacob- son's nerve, the sympathetic fibres are stimu- lated, the amount of organic solids in the parotid saliva is very markedly increased. The nerve fibres passing to the salivary glands are presided over by a centre in the medulla oblongata which acts reflexly. So long as this is intact, stimulation of the lingual or glossopharyngeal leads to a reflex flow of saliva. Other nerves may also act on this centre. Thus, gastric irritation, when it pro-