270 PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—AFFECTIONS OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS be possible to remove the greater part, if not all, of the diseased structure where it is still circumscribed and the neighbouring tissues are not infiltrated. The dangers are not greater than in the non-gravid condition, and the risk of inducing abortion has proved to be slight. The prospects of the patient are greatly im- proved ; gestation may go on to full term, and end in a labour easier than otherwise it would have been. Even if abortion did follow, it is the step which, without the operation, might be advisable. It is now generally accepted that before the sixth month, where the disease cannot be wholly removed, the induction of abortion offers the best chance to the mother. The tolerance of the pregnant uterus to opera- tions on the cervix enables one to meet a com- plication, where it has been decided to allow gestation to run its course. Severe or repeated haemorrhages may seriously affect the patient's strength. The ragged and cheesy surface can be removed with the curette, well into the canal, but not to interfere with the internal os and membranes, and the cavity thereafter plugged with iodoform gauze. The bleeding- can in this way be checked, and the pain from which the patient has suffered is often relieved. In thus operating on the cervix, even when removing considerable portions of the diseased structure, bleeding is seldom considerable, and is easily restrained by pressure of the tampon. When the pregnancy has advanced beyond the sixth month, one of three courses can be adopted:—1. To induce premature labourj 2. To wait till labour ensues spontaneously, and then meet the difficulties as they arise; 3. Csesarean section when labour begins, or pre- viously at a determined time. The position of the latter operation is very different from what it was ten years ago. It can now be performed with comparative safety. It is no longer the last resort where it is impossible to deliver the patient by other means, but it is to be preferred in all cases where delivery by the natural passages, though possible, is certain to entail the dangers of a protracted labour with much bruising and tearing of the tissues. The interests of the child also are better safeguarded. The question of treatment, therefore, turns on forecasting the probable difficulties of the labour, and the prospect of life to the mother should she survive the confinement. When the morbid growth is limited and a fair portion of the cervical tissue is free, the antici- pation of difficulty is not great. It has not infrequently been found that when even the whole circumference of the os uteri was involved, dilatation has been accomplished by the natural efforts, tardily it may be, but successfully, and the patient made a good recovery. It would appear that difficulty in full dilatation does not depend upon the extent or size of the growth so much as upon its consistence; if the cancer growth be soft, and the surrounding tissues but little involved, it will not offer much resistance to the uterine force, aided if need be by the forceps. The expansion in most cases is finally attained hj fissuring, and this does not seem to increase the dangers to the mother. Following this indication of nature, incisions with scissors have been made with marked benefit, and are probably to be preferred to trusting wholly to accident. This procedure has proved more reliable and safer than attempts to dilate with iudiarubber bags. There are cases, however, where the risks likely to be encountered are more hazardous than the Ccesat-ean operation, especially where the morbid growth is extensive and hard, or the neighbouring tissues are infiltrated. In no case should the decision be made to trust to natural efforts without a careful examiiiation per rectiLm, as well as by the vagina; much more information can thus be gained of the amount and consistence of the parts involved. It should be noted that in labour it has at times been possible to remove considerable portions of the cancerous growth without in- jurious effect, and labour in this way accom- plished. Successful cases have been recorded, but also unsuccessful, and in these the feeling must be that in the present day Csesarean section would have been preferable. It has been argued that in cases where diffi- culties are likely to be met from the state of the cervix, premature labour should be induced, as the obstruction will increase rather than lessen by waiting, and the foetal head will be larger. To the mother, any benefit to be gained is slight, whilst to the child, whose claims are now paramount, the risks would be inci-eased by prematurity and the difficult delivery. Csesarean section conserves its interest, and can be done if the dreaded increase in the obstruction has occurred, and is to be preferred where otherwise craniotomy is the only resource. In the milder cases, forceps are safer to mother and child than turning. Fibroid Tumours and Pregnancy.—Small round myomata are often present in the pregnant uterus, and cause no trouble. Even when multiple, if distributed and not masked together, or if single and of moderate size, they may not influence the pregnancy or complicate labour, provided they do not distort the uterine cavity or obstruct the passages, and no untoward change occurs such as described below. These cases do not call for interference. Uterine action is not impaired, as has often been stated; but there is risk of malpresentations. Hsemorrhage, too, is likely should the placenta be attached in the situation of the tumour. The bleeding, in such a case, might be difficult to control; prob- ably this is one condition where packing the uterine cavity would be preferable to the ordinary hsemostatic measures.