431 PULSE, THE meagre and unsatisfactory description; even the main features of the ordinary jugular pulsa- tion had been misinterpreted both by clinicians and experimental workers. In 1896 Mackenzie published his luminous papers on " The Venous and Liver Pulses," wherein is to be found a full and lucid description of the whole subject. His researches stand alone, not only in the numerous new facts recorded, but also in the interpretation of them. In this article the writer is indebted to Dr. Mackenzie for permis- sion to give a short summary of some of the main facts of interest in the study of the venous and liver pulses. For fuller information Dr. Mackenzie's recently published work must be consulted. The right heart frequently dilates, and thus permits blood to regurgitate back into the auricle during the systole of the ventricle. The tricuspid valves are readily rendered incompetent, and the older physicians used to speak of them as " safety valves," because over-distension of the right ventricle was in this way naturally relieved. But incompetence of the tricuspid valves is not always associated with a pulse in the jugular veins, and the explanation of this fact is im- portant, because herein is found the clue to the true interpretation of the various forms of venous pul- sation. The explanation is that the dilating auricle is interposed hetxveen the ventricle and the veins. From a study of the venous pulse we obtain information regarding the condition of two chambers of the heart, the right auricle and ventricle ; the arterial pulse only indicates what the heart is doing during the time of the ventricular contraction. In cases of pulse irregularity the venous pulse reveals what is occurring in the various chambers of the heart during its irregular action, and forms the only accurate means of diagnosing the kind of arrhythmia present. Pulsation in the jugular vein is found in various forms of functional heart failure, in chlorosis, pregnancy, pernicious anaimia, etc.; but in such cases, however great the heart failure may be, there is never pulsation of the liver. The liver pulse occurs only when there is dilatation of the right heart secondary to mitral disease, and then the disease is always far advanced. In the jugular vein near its junction with the subclavian there are two valves which in normal conditions prevent regurgitation of blood into the neck. During auricular systole the circular muscular fibres of the venae cavse, where they join the auricle, contract with sufficient power to act in the place of valves, and thus prevent regurgitation of blood into the veins. Disten- sion of the right heart impairs the functions of these circular fibres, and a wave of blood is thus sent backwards with each auricular systole. The jugular valves are still between the con- tracting auricle and the vein in the neck, but they ai'e readily rendered incompetent in some patients. When this happens a wave of blood is sent up the vein into the neck, due to and synchronous with the auricular systole. Tlie vein, after being filled, collapses as the auricle passes into diastole, and this collapse is the movement usually observed when the neck is inspected ; it is found to correspond to the systolic portion of the arterial pulse. If a graphic record be taken from the vein by means of the clinical polygraph, the move- ments can be accurately timed with the apex- beat, carotid, or radial pulse, and the causes of the various events can usually be easily recog- nised. Thus a wave preceding the carotid pulse can only be produced by the systole of the auricle. In like manner, when a wave occurs in the veins synchronous with the carotid pulse, it can be referred with certainty to the systole of the right ventricle. When the tracing shows a wave due to the auricular systole it frequently Liver & X Carotid Fig. 132.—Tracing of an auricle liver pulse talcen at the same time as the carotid pulse to show the large wave (()), which is due to the auricular systole. (Mackenzie.) happens that there is also a wave due to the systole of the ventricle. The time of occur- rence of the ventricular wave is delayed for a longer or shorter interval after the carotid pulse. The venous pulse may thus be divided into two forms, viz. the auricular venous pulse and the ventricular venous pulse. The first is that form which presents distinct evidence of the functional activity of the right auricle. In this form there is also a wave due to the ventricle, and as it increases the auricular wave decreases and finally disappears, and thus the form called the ventricular venous pulse is developed. The ventricular venous pulse is but a more advanced stage than the auricular; and as during its development there is a gradual fading of the auricular wave, there is a period when such terms do not sufficiently denote the character of the pulse. But the terms are convenient for descriptive purposes. Similar types of pulses may be recognised in the liver. In Fig. 132 simultaneous tracings are given of the liver pulse and the carotid. The liver pulse is given in place of the jugular, as there are other movements communicated by the carotid, owing to its proximity to the vein, when taking a tracing of the jugular pulse.