116 PLAGUE blood corpuscles. The Austrian Plague Com- mission found that the chlorides were in almost all cases markedly diminished. The Nervous System.—This system is especi- ally implicated in plague. Every degree of mental disturbance may be met with; apathy, anxiety, delirium of varying degrees, or acute mania may be present, and suicidal and homi- cidal impulses may supervene. The mind is nearly always more or less affected; sometimes it is merely clouded, or memory is defective and the attention frequently wanders; sleeplessness is a troublesome symptom. Inco-ordination of speech is usually well marked, the patient often knowing what he wants to say, but has diffi- culty in articulating it. Inco-ordination of the muscles is often well marked; twitching, pick- ing at the bed-clothes, tonic and clonic spasms may be present. The speech is usually thick and the gait staggering, and these, together with the conjunctival injection, may present a picture suggestive of alcoholic excess. At times, even in cases where death is imminent, the mind is but little affected and the patient painfully realises his critical condi- tion. Restlessness and purposeless movements are of frequent occurrence among those attacked by plague, leading them to make train journeys and expeditions seemingly without an object; a part of this, however, is explicable, especially in native races, by the fear of being discovered as a plague patient, or to the promptings of friends. Nervous sequelae may follow plague, such as motor paralysis and insanity. Cula7ieous System.—The skin during the high fever is hot and dry, followed by perspira- tion on the fall in temperature. Primary and secondary plague boils, pustules, and carbuncles may occur. The primary lesions occur at the point of inoculation of the disease, beginning as a small papule and going on to pustulation. The bacillus pestis may sometimes be recovered from the pustule in nearly pure culture. There is usually considerable surrounding redness, and it may be lymphangitis between the pustule and the nearest lymph gland ; vesicles, pustules, and furuncles may develop along this track. Occasionally a type of plague has been de- scribed, limited to the skin, under the name "Skin Plague or Pustular Plague." The general symptoms resemble bubonic plague, but are milder, and the termination, apart from the local skin destruction, is more frequently favour- able ; the carbuncles usually take an abortive course and dry up, unless other local or general symptoms appear (Scheube). Secondary plague pustules, boils, and car- buncles are sometimes met with, usually during the first week of the disease. Accompanied by a feeling of heat, stinging or itching pains, there appears a small brown spot over or ronnd a bubo, surrounded by redness and induration. A small vesicle develops with a dark red margin. which becomes larger, and may reach the size of a Brazil nut. The base of the vesicle becomes a black slough, which in time becomes a black ulcer of cratei--like formation. In process of time the ulcer heals by granulation (Scheube). Similar sloughs may be produced by native applications to the bubo, as occurs in India. Sometimes more extensive carbuncle formation occurs with necrosis and loss of tissue, so that a large extent of muscle may be laid bare, and sometimes htemorrhages may supervene. Petechise may be present, commonly on the neck, chest, and extremities. They may occur as small purpuric spots or partly punctiform and partly wheal-like, or large red, black, or livid haemorrhages. The incidence of such cutaneous affections appears to vary very much in different epidemics. Papular rashes are sometimes met with, distributed all over the body. Sometimes these are said to go on to pustulation. Rashes have from time to time been described, which have a typhus-like, mor- billiform, erythematous, urticarial, or sudamin- ous character, but they are rare. Typhus-like rashes have been described by Hossack, in Calcutta {Journal Trop. Med., 1st January 1901), though in his cases drugs may have had something to do with the causation of the rash. Hcemorrhages.—Bleeding may occur from the nose, mouth, lungs, stomach, rectum, kidneys, and female genital organs, usually at the height of the disease. Abortion and premature labour frequently occur, and result almost invariably in death; cases of recovery are, however, upon record. Eye affections may occur early, even on the first or second day of the disease, such as parenchymatous keratitis of one or both eyes, leading to iridocyclitis usually, and sometimes to complete suppuration of the eyes. Termination.—Death may occur at any stage of the disease, but most frequently on the third to fifth day, so that after a week the prognosis becomes more favourable. There are well- marked fulminant cases (pestis fulminans or siderans) where the patient has been able to attend to his work most of the day apparently in good health, and on going home has been attacked and died of plague the same evening. Although it is true that Europeans, as a rule, do not suffer so severely from plague, I have seen some cases of this fulminant type among them; in some instances the disease ran its course in six or eight hours. In view of such cases, sudden deaths during a plague epidemic should be regarded with suspicion until the diagnosis can be satisfactorily cleared up. In plague the cause of death is usually heart failure, which may be very sudden and un- expected, or ushered in with a small, frequent, weak, and irregular pulse, coldness of the peripheral parts of the body, high temperature, and sometimes cyanosis or lividity of the face.