RHEUMATISM, CHRONIC 578 are not such as direct attention specially to the muscular system. The patient may complain of— (i.) Rheumatism, involving mainly one or more of the larger joints. It is advisable to note that an objective examination may reveal definite articular changes which distract atten- tion from the more important lesion in the muscle. (ii.) Neuralgia.—Especially of neuralgic pains in the occipital region or back of neck, thighs (sciatica), or lumbar region (lumbago). (iii.) Headache and general discomfort in the head and neck are sometimes the leading symptoms complained of. (iv.) Precordial pain, or pain in the mammary region. On objective examination the affected muscles are found to be in a state of contraction. They are unduly hard throughout their whole extent, and when their action is tested, their movement is found to be unduly limited and markedly painful. In the affected part there may be none of the acutely painful areas characteristic of the acute condition, but careful examination may reveal their presence in another region of the body. The muscles most involved are the same as those already mentioned. Special mention should be made of the muscles attached to the occiput and neck, to the intercostal and serrati and gluteal muscles. Diagnosis.—The differential diagnosis is, as a rule, easy, provided a careful examination of the muscular system be carried out. The following diseases are simulated, and muscular rheumatism may be mistaken for— (a) Joint disease.—Pain and stiffness is often referred to the joint, which may be in a state of flexion. This is especially seen in the knee, hip, and shoulder. (6) Visceral disease, especially pleurisy, or some disturbance in the gastro-intestinal tract, e.g. gastralgia, appendicitis. (c) Cardiac disorder or disease of the mam- mary gland in women. Symptoms attributed by the patient to these conditions are not infre- quently due to rheumatic inflammation in the muscles of the chest wall. (d) It may not be possible to differentiate myositis from similar small painful nodules met with in the subcutaneous tissues due to a local cellulitis, which is practically identical in its origin and nature with the areas of inflamma- tion in the muscular tissue. From a practical point of view, an accurate diagnosis is im- material. It is only necessary to mention the presence of small subcutaneous fibrous nodules some- times met with in the subcutaneous tissue or attached to tendons, seen especially in the forearm. These are apparently small fibrous nodules of local origin, and do not call for treatment. (e) Neuralgia.—The frequency of these dis- tinct inflammations in muscles is probably not sufficiently realised, and not a few cases are diagnosed as "neuralgia." The writer be- lieves that some cases diagnosed as brachial neuralgia are really cases of myositis involving the muscles of the neck; occipital neuralgia, due to inflammation of the deep muscles, especi- ally the complexus; sciatica, due to local changes in the glutei muscles, and some cases of lumbago due to a similar state in the lower fibres of the trapezius or deep muscles of the trunk. In the more chronic cases, e.g. in the neck, it may be quite impossible to say whether the structural change is in the muscles of the part, in the subcutaneous tissue, in the nerves, or in the joints of the spine. Some assistance in the diagnosis may be forthcoming from the result of treatment. After one day's treatment by gentle effleurage the skin over the inflamed portion becomes yellow, and later assumes a darker tint, the colour disappearing in three to four days, and by that time the affected limb, which previously felt heavy, dull, and paralysed, feels alive and in a much improved state. General Diagnosis.—Some important points in the diagnosis of rheumatism have already been detailed in the section on " Muscular Rheumatism." Firstly, It is advisable to determine as far as possible the exact site of the pathological pro- cess. Is it in the muscle, subcutaneous tissue, nerve, or in the neighbouring joint 1 The accurate determination of this point may materially modify the prognosis in a given case. Secondly, The existence of any gross visceral disease ought next to be determined by an ex- amination in turn of the gastro-intestinal, renal, cardio-vascular, and nervous systems. In women special attention should be directed to the menstrual function. When gross visceral disease is detected, we should not at once con- sider that such is a merely incidental complica- tion of the rheumatism, as in most cases it is probably closely identified with it, etiologically, pathologically, and clinically. Thirdly, In doubtful cases of articular rheu- matism it is not necessary to differentiate pre- cisely the various types of osteo-arthritis, as the relationship between that disease and so-called articular rheumatism is probably a close one, and the principles of treatment are essentially the same. Fourthly, With regard to gout—what has been said of articular rheumatism holds good also with regard to gout. It is sometimes said that great care is necessary to differentiate cases of joint disease, the result of chronic gout, from cases to which, on clinical and pathological grounds, the term osteo-arthritis appears more applicable, as the dietetic and general treatment is so different in the two cases—the first calling