PUERPERIUM, PATHOLOGY OF 378 would also find in these acute cases after death intense congestion of the cerebral tissue in areas and softening patches. These appearances, however, are common in all acute insanities. The topical pathology is all-important, and we know nothing of it; yet there must be some physical counterpart, for example, of the almost constant change in appetite and aiTections which characterise these insanities. Also, the chemical pathology is miknown; the products of para- digestion which presumably occur in the dys- pepsia of pregnancy, the toxins which are de- veloped in the stomach and bowels, the bacteria and their products which develop either gener- ally or locally in such cases, are not distinctive. It is their pi-esence in the organism, along with the almost constant nervous conditions of these cases, which determine their characteristic results. In short, the insanities of pregnancy are to be regarded as occasioned by malnutrition —by inanition, or by toxaemia, or by both, occurring in nervous subjects at a time when they are already subjected to the strain of nervous developments characteristic of incipient or actual motherhood. As we shall see, these factors can and should be dealt with in treat- ment, especially in its preventive aspect. 2. Clinical Varieties.—All the insanities of pregnancy may be said to show mental exhaustion in the early stage—a weariness of the rational functions and of the affections. In the insanity of pregnancy and in that of lactation the development is usually one of melancholia. In puerperal insanity the con- dition rapidly develops, as a rule, into an acute mania of the delirious type. Most cases show a well-marked perversion both of sexual desire and of the conjugal and maternal affections. One would expect that during pregnancy the capacity for sexual pleasui-e should diminish, but it is fortunately not normal that an intense loathing of the idea of sexual converse or a perverted appetite for vagrant indulgence should develop; yet these are common to pregnant women who become insai:ie. Similarly, it is usual for the mother to turn against her husband or her child, and quite frequently she finds some fantastic substitute for the affection with which she has parted. Most cases are prone to impulses of a violent kind, and often towards those to whom she is normally most attached. There is nearly always confusion as to time and place and people, and a gradual loss of the sense of identities. Nearly every case manifests disturbances of sensory im- pressions, is beset by parsesthesias, or by illusions which to her disordered judgment seem fit reason for the delusions of misfortune or of grandeur which supervene. (a) The insanity of iwegnancy is the least frequent of the three varieties now considered. But, in my experience, many lactational cases have begun during pregnancy, and have merely been tided over. The seventh month is rather more critical than the others, and, if the patient goes past that, and if no septic development occurs in the puerperium, nothing serious may happen until well on in lactation. It may safely be said that all cases begin with mental depression, and the melancholia will continue and be a feature of the case unless some gross neglect of bodily functions, some sudden shock or some acute illness, precipitate the case and lead to mania. The usual case becomes in- different and apathetic, and a considerable number become stuperose. A very large pro- portion become suicidal, and a considerable number have impulses of a homicidal nature. In nearly all melancholias of pregnancy the sensibility of the patient will be found reduced, and developments towards parsesthesias—per- verted skin sensations, or tactual, or olfactory, or gross feelings of " internal disease"—are common. (6) Insanity of the Puerperinm. — This is perhaps the most dramatic, because the most sudden and demonstrative, of all insanities. After a difficult pregnancy and, from the obstetrical point of view, an unsatisfactory puerperium, the patient rapidly becomes delirious. Her appetite for food ceases, she passes an insufficient amount of urine, she becomes constipated, the lochia are inhibited, the patient has gone septic. It is not merely a local disorder: the whole system is obviously toxic. The mental accompaniments, after a more or less brief stage of depression, are that the mother ceases to be careful about her child, ignoi-es her husband, is perverse in her temper, and more and more unmanageable, until manifest delirium with rise of temperature supervenes. The case rapidly develops, and takes on the characters of acute delirious mania, but with a shallower delirium, that is, a slighter oblivion, than in other comparable states. For example, the patient will dance, and sing, and shout, and her expressions of delight or of excited activity will increase in response to stimulation. She will probably recognise her husband and repel him ; at the same time she will rush into the arms of her medical attendant or of a stranger. Her violence will be destructive, and she will throw her child across the room as readily as she will throw a cushion. No form of insanity better illustrates the evolution of insane energy; from the pulse, the appear- ance, the feel of the muscles, one would expect collapse ; and yet the violent exertions con- tinue. Then comes exhaustion, and the patient lies prostrate, roused only by fugitive pains or hallucinations, stimulated by vigorous attempts at feeding or by the necessities of nursing, sleeping fitfully or not at all, rambling in a muttering fashion if her voice is not too hoarse and her mouth not too dry for articula- tion. It may be some days before this stage