PLAGUE 117 Other causes of death may be asphyxia from extensive inflammation and infiltration in the neighbourhood of the throat, or hcemorrhages from the lungs, or from ulceration into large blood-vessels elsewhere. Death may occur from meningitis, pyaemia, septicaemia, pneumonia, or marasmus. Patients have been known to be- come maniacal, and to have died violent deaths by jumping through windows, or on board ship through portholes into the sea, and in other like ways. In favourable cases the disease passes on slowly to convalescence, through re- mission of the severer symptoms, between the first and second weeks. Progress may be slow, and the incised bubo may sometimes take a long time to heal. Some considerable time may elapse before the patient regains his normal health. Cases suffering slightly from pulmonary tuberculosis may rapidly die from an acute form of the disease. Bubonic cases which have not suppurated will, in general, require to remain in hospital from five to eight weeks. In those in which suppuration has occurred the incised bubo, in a number of cases, heals fairly readily, and complete convalescence may not be unduly protracted. In some cases three or four months may occasionally be necessary before a firm cicatrix is established or before glands in different parts of the body cease to break down. It is necessary to consider a gland infectious as long as it is discharging, though probably after some weeks it no longer contains the specific organisms. (2) Septicemic Plague.—This form of plague consists of rapidly fatal septicaemia, terminating in a few hours or a day or two in primary cases. Secondary septicaemia or pyaemia may supervene in bubonic cases, and are common causes of death. For statistical purposes, however, these secondary cases are not regarded as cases of septicaemic plague, but are classified as bubonic. In this connection it may be noted that although it is convenient for purposes of description and classification to divide plague into several types, in practice it is common to meet with mixed forms of the disease. The term septicaemic plague may therefore be confined to a primary septicaemia, without ex- ternal buboes. The onset is frequently sudden, prostration is extreme, the patient may lie in a collapsed or comatose condition, he may be delirious, and sometimes breathes with a groan- ing respiration, or only a groan may be elicited on interrogation. On examination a weak, irregular pulse, and sometimes an enlarged spleen and haemorrhages from the mouth, rectum, or female genital organs may be dis- covered ; and in females it may be found that the patient has aborted or been prematurely delivered, the so-called " puerperal " form of plague. The temperature is usually hyper- pyrexic, or it may be apyrexic. Without a bacteriological examination diagnosis is uncer- tain, but in blood taken from the peripheral circulation the specific bacillus can often be discovered in films or upon culture. Pestis fulminans and siderans belong to this type of the disease. The termination is fatal in practically all cases. (3) Pneumonic Plague.—Plague pneumonia may be primary or it may be secondary to an attack of a bubonic type. Childe first noted this primary plague pneu- monia in Bombay, though plague epidemics with lung symptoms are mentioned in some of the early writings upon this disease. Com- mencing with rigors, high temperature, head- ache, pains in the limbs, and giddiness, pneu- monia develops with pains in the chest, dyspnoea, cough, expectoration, and accelerated breathing. The physical signs are often obscure and evanescent. There may be dulness over one or more lobes, or it may not be definitely made out. Moist sounds are usually heard, and occasionally bronchitic rales. The fever is high, intermittent, and often irregular, the pulse frequent and weak. Delirium is a marked feature of plague pneumonia, passing on to coma as death approaches. As points in the differential diagnosis of this form of the disease, the prostration is very marked and out of pro- portion to the physical signs. The pulse and respirations are rapid, but there is not the same disproportion in their ratio as is observed in ordinary pneumonia. There may be tenderness in the groins, axilla, or neck, and frequently enlargement of the spleen. It is stated that herpes labialis is rarely or never present. In the early stages the sputum may be thick and tenacious, and slightly tinged with blood ; it later becomes a watery, blood-stained secre- tion, sometimes consisting of almost pure blood ; it wells up in enormous quantities and is gener- ally laden with plague bacilli, sometimes in nearly pure culture. The rusty sputum of ordinary pneumonia is seldom met with in this form of the disease. The Russian Plague Com- mission state that cough and expectoration may be entirely absent. The disease has in the great majority of cases a fatal termination in three or four days from oedema of the lung. Sometimes the disease takes the form of what seems to be a simple bronchitis, suddenly terminating in death. In certain epidemics, cases of plague pneumonia are not reported to have occurred. In the 1894 outbreak in Hong-Kong, this type was either not present or, what is more likely, was not recognised, Childe at that time not having described this form of the disease. Sometimes an outbreak consists almost entirely of pneu- monic cases. (4) Intestinal Plague. — It is doubtful whether this should be considered to be a distinct type of plague, but it was described by Wilm in Hong-Kong, 1896. In it no buboes