PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—AFFECTIONS OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS 273 presence or absence of complications. In many- cases there are no symptoms beyond those of pregnancy, and from first to last there may be nothing to suggest to the woman the existence of a dangerous complication. More often, however, a careful inquiry will elicit some unusual features. While there may be simply an exaggeration of one or other of the recog- nised symptoms, occasional attacks of pain, of longer or shorter duration, are frequently complained of in the region of the affected ovary. Disturbances of micturition are especi- ally common in the early months; and, in the case of large tumours, we find evidences of mechanical distension in oedema of the legs or abdominal wall, in the disturbed digestive functions, or in an embarrassment of the respiration which may be so great as to demand speedy relief. But it is when complications of the tumour supervene that we get the most serious and characteristic symptoms. The clinical features of these are identical with the same attacks in the non-pregnant. Peritonitic attacks are especially common, and occvirring during pregnancy should always suggest the possibility of ovarian disease. The recognition of an ovarian tumour during pregnancy presents, as a rule, no great difficulty, and must rest on the usual physical signs. On inspection a double tumour will often be ob- served, and this will be readily confirmed by palpation and bimanual examination. It is where the tumour is very large that the diffi- culties are greatest. The abdominal signs of pregnancy may then be entirely obscured ; and even within a few weeks of term it may be impossible to feel the foetal parts or to hear the foetal heart sounds. It will often be possible, however, to make out the characteristic uterine contractions. An important aid to diagnosis is to be found in the method employed by Schroeder. During bimanual examination he fixes the cervix uteri with a volsellum, which is manipulated by an assistant, and thus helps in the differentiation of the two tumours. Many mistakes in the diagnosis of this com- plication have been made from not attaching sufficient weight to the signs and symptoms of pregnancy which were present. In a patient with ovarian tumour suppression of menstrua- tion should always suggest pregnancy. In the absence of abdominal signs the various symp- toms, and the vaginal signs, more especially the characteristic changes in the cervix, have an increased importance. The association of pregnancy with an ovarian tumour will always be a cause for anxiety. Though many cases pass through pregnancy and the puerperal period without accident or even without inconvenience, experience shows that this is exceptional, and that " there is no security against some formidable catastrophe." In a large series of cases collected by the writer VOL. VIII the maternal mortality was nearly 20 per cent, and even this would have been much higher but for operation undertaken on the develop- ment of urgent symptoms. The danger lies in the possibility of complications ; and these may- be anticipated, in more or less severe form, during pregnancy or the puerperal period in nearly every second case. The most common complication of the tumour is torsion of its pedicle, which is met with in over 12 per cent of the cases. Treatment.—-Within recent years the treat- ment of ovarian disease in pregnancy has under- gone great change. Till lately it was the practice to avoid interference in the absence of any urgent symptom; and where remedial measures were demanded, either to aspirate the tumour or to induce premature labour. These methods are now discarded or reserved for exceptional cases; and it is generally held that the best ti'eatment, when an ovarian tumour is found to complicate pregnancy, is immediate ovariotomy. It can be shown that ovariotomy gives better immediate results, for mother and child as well, than either non-interference or aspiration of the cyst, while at the same time it relieves the woman of her disease. Though occasionally it may be more difficult, ovariotomy in pregnancy is in no way more hazardous than apart from pregnancy. The mortality in a large series of cases, including those fatal cases in which some complication of the tumour preceded operation, was only 3 per cent, while pregnancy remained undisturbed in over 70 per cent. The more recent cases show even better results. There is a disposition among many, even of those who in general advocate ovariotomy, to make an exception in the case of small tumours, which they believe may be safely treated ex- pectantly, but it should be noted that dangerous complications are quite as frequent in the small tumours as in those of larger size. As to the time at which ovariotomy may be most safely performed, Dsirne concluded, from an analysis of 135 cases, that the second, third, and fourth months gave the best results for the mother, and the third and fourth months for the child. A larger survey shows that the operation may be performed with almost equal safety for mother and child at any period of gestation. There is, in fact, no elective period for ovariotomy in pregnancy. Whenever an ovarian tumour is detected during pregnancy, no matter how small, the rule should be to advise its immediate removal. Affections and Complications other than those of the Generative Organs Disorders of— Nervous System .... 274 Digestive and Sympathetic . . 274 Cardio-Vascular .... 276 18