3 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES Nor does blood necessarily coagulate when shed. If it is received into castor oil, or into a vessel anointed with vaseline and filled with paraffin oil, it will remain fluid for a consider- able time. Apparently some roughness in the wall of the blood-vessel or of the vessel in which the blood is received is required to start the process, acting as a focus from which it can spread outwards. The advantages of coagulation of blood are manifest. By means of it wounds in blood- vessels are sealed and hfemorrhage stopped. Although an important and very prominent change in the blood, clotting is really produced by change in one constituent of the plasma, which is present in very small quantities. II. Plasma and Se7'um These may be considered together, since serum is merely plasma minus fibrinogen. As serum is so much easier to procure, it is gener- ally employed for analysis. Both are straw-coloured fluids, the colour being due to a yellow lipochrome. Sometimes they are clear and transparent, but after a fatty diet they become milky. They are alkaline in re- action, and have a specific gravity of about 1025. They contain about 90 per cent of water and 10 per cent of solids. The chief solids are the proteins—serum albumin and serum globulin (with, in the plasma, the ad- dition of fibrinogen). The proportion of the two former proteins to one another varies con- siderably in diff'erent animals, but in the same animal at different times the variations are small. The globulin probably consists of at least two bodies—euglobulin precipitated by weak acid, and pseudoglobulin not so precipitated. The amount of albumin is generally greater when the body is well nourished. In man, they together form about 7 per cent of the serum. The other organic constituents of the serum are in much smaller amounts, and may be divided into— 1. Substances to be used by the Tissues.— Glucose is the most important of these. It occurs only in small amounts—about 1 to 2 per mille. Part of it is free, but part is probably combined in organic combinations such as jecorin. It is probably in larger amount in blood going to muscles than in blood coming from muscles, and this difference seems to be specially well marked when the muscles are active. Fats occur in very varying amounts, depend- ing upon the amount taken in the food. 2. Substances given off by the Tissties.—The chief of these is urea, which occurs con- stantly in very small amounts in the serum— about "05 per cent. We shall afterwards see that it is derived from the liver, and that it is excreted in the urine by the kidneys. Creatin (vol. vii. p. 503), with uric acid (p. 87), and some allied bodies appear to be normally present in traces, and their amount may be increased in diseased conditions. Of the inorganic constituents of the serum the most abundant is chloride of sodium, but in addition sodium carbonate and alkaline sodium phosphate are also present. Calcium, potassium, and magnesium occur in very small amounts. III. Cells of Blood 1. Leucocytes—White Cells.—These are much less numerous than the red cells, and their number varies enormously in normal conditions. On an average there are about 7500 per cubic millimetre. They are soft, extensile, elastic, and sticky, and each contains a nucleus and a well-developed double centrosome. In size they vary consider- ably, some being much larger than the red cells, some slightly smaller. The character of the nucleus varies greatly, and from this and from variations in the protoplasm, they may be divided into four classes. 1st. Lymphocytes.—Cells with a clear proto- plasm and a more or less circular nucleus. Some are very small, while others are larger. They constitute about 20 to 25 per cent of the leucocytes (Fig. 110, b and c). Fig. 110.—Cells of the blood, ft, Erythrocytes; b, large, and c, small lymphocyte ; d, polymorpho-nuclear leucocyte ; e, eosiuophil leucocyte. 2nd. Polymorpho-nuclear leucocytes, with a much-distorted and lobated irregular nucleus and a finely granular protoplasm, whose granules stain with acid and neutral stains. These consti- tute about 70 to 75 per cent of the leucocytes. ?>rd. Eosinopjhil or oxyphil leucocytes, with a lobated nucleus like the last, but with large granules in the protoplasm wliich stain deeply with acid stains. From 1 to 4 per cent of the leucocytes are of this variety. ^th. Basophil leucocytes, practically absent from normal blood, with a lobated nucleus and granules in the protoplasm, staining with basic stains. Myelocytes are large leucocytes with a large circular or oval nucleus and a finely granular protoplasm. They are not normal constituents