PNEUMONIA—CLINICAL SECTION hour or twenty minutes. A relay of hot linseed- meal poultices is an old-fashioned and useful pi'actice. Mustard in varying proportions, when mixed with such a poultice, produces more decided counter - irritation, and prevents the uncomfortable feeling of chill which ensues on cooling of the poultice. In children a jacket of wadding is a good substitute for the poultice. The inflammable nature of wadding should not be forgotten. Turpentine stupes do good, par- ticularly when there is coincident bronchitis. Dry cupping is excellent practice for the relief of pain and dyspnoea, but also as a preventive of collateral hypersemia. Blistering is often harmful, and when prescribed should be used with moderation. Free and reckless blistering may damage the burdened kidneys, or actually set up a traumatic pleuropneumonia. Mention has already been made of the application of ice-cold cloths to the affected side, and even the ice-bag may be employed with advantage. Two vital indications in treatment are—to support the heart and keep it going, and to prevent clotting of the blood. The first indication is met by ordering digi- talis or strophanthus, in full doses, singly or in combination with quinine, nux vomica, or strychnine. Digitalis is indicated when the pulse is rapid and of low tension, and when the kidneys do not act freely. This drug is well borne in pneumonia, and may be pushed. By some authors it is credited with an almost specific action on the disease. Strophanthus has the advantage of acting more quickly upon the heart, and may be given in high tension cases. Another useful drug is caftein, given as an effervescent citrate or hydrobromate, with or without 10-grain doses of salicylate of sodium. Caffein should be withheld late in the after- noon and towards night lest wakefulness should result. In threatened heart failure hypodermic injections of strychnine (TjV'T.r grain) every eight or twelve hours often save life. Morphine may be given with it (^--J- grain) if the patient is restless and sleepless. Blood-clotting may be anticipated by the exhibition of neutral salts, or of carbonate of ammonium in 5-grain doses every third, fourth, or sixth hour. A pill of 3 grains each of ammonium carbonate and quinine is a suitable form. Aromatic spirit of ammonium serves the same purpose; in urgent cases it may be combined with digitalis, Hoffmann's anodyne (compound spirit of ether), and tincture of bark. Inhalations of oxygen give great relief, and once tried are often craved for by the patient. The mouthpiece of the inhaler should not be taken into the mouth, for the con- centrated stream of oxygen dries the tongue and parches the mouth. The writer has never seen any harm from the inhalation of diluted oxygen, the nozzle being held a couple of inches from and below the open mouth. For the relief of cough the local applications already mentioned should be tried. Sipping cold water gives I'elief, or half an ounce of both glycerine and lemon juice may be put into a 2-ounce bottle, which should then be filled with water; of this simple mixture a teaspoonful may be sipped occasionally. To such a mixture cherry-laurel water, or syrup of codein, or solution of morphine, might be added to pro- duce a more decided sedative effect. Sir William Jenner's cough mixture for phthisis should do good in some cases, but it is apt to check expectoration, namely : R Acidi hydrocyani diluti, rrixlviij. Liquoris morphinse acetatis, TTLxcvj. Syrupi aurantii, ad siij. Signa : A teaspoonful, by measure, to be sipped occasionally. For the early headache and sleeplessness, the phenazone and gelsemium draught recom- mended in the article on " Influenza" may be prescribed. The formula for this magical remedy is as follows:— R Phenazoni, gr. xij.-xx. Tincturse gelsemii, n\xx. Aquse chloroformi, ad gij. Signa : One-fourth part every second or third hour until pain is eased. As a rule, narcotics, like opium or morphine, had best be avoided in the treatment of pneumonia. They lock up the secretions and check expectoration. Perhaps an exception may be made in favour of Dover's powder, which is useful when given in a pill with quinine and digitalis (Niemeyer's modification of Heim's pill). The bromides are suitable hypnotics, ex- hibited with tincture of bark. If the heart is strong, and early in the attack, chloral may be given in combination with the bromides of sodium, potassium, and ammonium; later on chloral is inadmissible except in young children, who bear the syrup well. A teaspoonful may be prescribed with 7 drachms of simple syrup or of aromatic syrup, the doze being one or two teaspoonfuls of this mixture at suitable intervals. Chloralamide and bromide of potassium, of each 15 to 30 grains, sometimes act well in soothing and so inducing sleep. They may be dispensed flavoured with liquid extract of liquorice, or with tincture of orange peel and chloroform water. Delirium is sometimes active in apical pneumonia, but it is seldom persistent. It is allayed by whatever makes the patient less restless and more comfortable. Sipping cold water for the relief of thirst, the application of cold compresses to the affected side, the relief of tympanites or flatulence or constipation, the application of warmth or cold to the fore-