41 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES and a half inches, and so through the other ribs, until the floating ribs fixed by the ab- dominal muscles are reached. When the diaphragm takes the chief part in inspiration the breathing is said to be abdominal in type—when the intercostals chiefly act in raising the ribs it is said to be thoracic. Ab- dominal breathing is best marked in males— thoracic in females. Along with the intercostal muscles, the leva- tores costarum also act in raising the ribs and in increasing the thorax in the transverse and antero-posterior diameters. These are the essential muscles of inspiration, but other muscles also participate in the act. In many individuals, even when breathing quietly, it will be seen that the nostrils dilate with each inspiration. This is due to the action of the dilatores narium, which contract syn- chronously with the other muscles of inspiration. Again, if the larynx be examined, it will be found that the vocal cords slightly diverge from one another during inspiration. This is brought about by the action of the posterior crico-ary- tenoid muscles (p. 50). Forced Inspiration.—This comparatively small group of muscles is sufficient to carry out the ordinary act of inspiration. But, in certain conditions, inspii-ation becomes forced. A forced inspiration may be made voluntarily, often it is produced involuntarily. Such forced inspiration is well seen in patients suffering from heart disease, in whom the blood is not properly oxygenated, and by whom powerful efforts are made to get as much air into the lungs as possible. In this condition every muscle which can act upon the thorax to expand it is brought into play. The body and spinal column are fixed in the erect position. The head is thrown back and fixed by the posterior spinal muscles. The arms and shoulders are fixed—usually by holding on to the sides or arms of the chair— and every muscle which can act from the fixed spine, head and shoulder girdle upon the thorax is brought into play. Normally, these act from the thorax upon the parts into which they are inserted ; now they act from their insertion upon their point of origin. The sterno-mastoids, sterno-thyroids, and sterno-hyoids assist in elevat- ing the thorax. The serratus magnus, pectoralis minor, and upper fibres of the pectoralis major, and the part of the latissimus dorsi which passes from the humerus to the three last ribs, also pull these structures upwards. The facial and laryngeal movements also become exaggerated. B. In Expiration the various muscles of in- spiration cease to act, and the forces against which they contended again contract the thorax in its three diameters— The elasticity of the Iwngs is no longer over- come by the muscles of inspiration, and the external atmospheric pressure acting along with it drives the chest wall inwards. The elasticity of the costal cartilages and—in the erect position—the weight of the chest wall cause the ribs again to be depressed, and finally the elasticity of the abdominal roall drives the abdominal viscera against the relaxed diaphragm and again arches it towards the thorax, squeezing its marginal portion against the ribs and occlud- ing the complemental pleura. Experimental evidence shows that the internal intercostals contract with each expiration, and help to draw the ribs downwards. Ordinary expiration is thus normally mainly a passive act, being simply a return of the thorax to the position of rest. But voluntarily, and, in certain conditions, involuntarily, expira- tion may be forced. Forced expiration is then partly due to the above factors, and partly due to the action of muscles. Every muscle which can in any way diminish the size of the thorax comes into play. Chief of these are the abdominal muscles, which by compressing the viscera push them upwards and press the diaphragm further up into the thorax. At the same time, by acting from the pelvis to pull down the ribs, they decrease the thorax from side to side and from before backwards. The serratus posticus inferior and part of the sacro-lumbalis pull downwards the lower ribs, and the triangularis sterni also assists in this. By this constriction of the thorax, brought about by ordinary or by forced expiration, the air inside is compressed and the pressure raised. During ordinary expiration the highest pressure reached is about 2 to 3 mm. Hg, in forced ex- piration about 80 mm. The pressure of the air outside is less than this, and the air inside the chest is driven out. Special Respiratory Movements. — There are several peculiar and special reflex actions of the respiratory muscles, each caused by the stimulation of a special district, and each having a special purpose. Coughing.—This consists of an inspiration followed by a strong expiratory effort during which the glottis is constricted but is forced open repeatedly by the current of expired air. It is generally due to irritation of the respira- tory tract, and its object is to expel foreign matters. Sneezing.— This is generally produced by irritation of the nasal mucous membrane, and its object is to expel irritating matter. It con- sists in an inspiratory act followed by a forced expiration during which, by contraction of the pillars of the fauces and descent of the soft palate, the air is forced through the nose. Hiccough consists in a sudden reflex contrac- tion of the diaphragm causing a sudden in- spiration which is interrupted by a spasmodic contraction of the glottis. Abdominal irritation is its chief cause. It is allied to vomiting. Sighing and Yatvning are deep involuntary