144 PLEURA, DISEASES OF the physician. At a late stage of some of these cases the symptoms of dilatation of the heart may complicate those projjer to pleurisy. The physical signs of chronic j^leurisy depend upon the amount of the effusion, the degree of collapse of the lung on the affected side, and the consecutive changes in the chest wall. In some cases retraction of the side is a prominent feature, in others there is no retraction. Dul- ness on percussion, impairment of tactile fremitus, and feebleness of the respiratory murmur are usually present, but in very varying degree. In some cases friction is the only physical sign. The prognosis is unfavourable as regards complete restituo ad integrum, but some of the less grave cases preserve a fair degree of health and fitness for work for long periods. It is not well to take a grave view of slight cases of chronic pleurisy, but the possibility of tuber- culosis must always be borne in mind. Cases of persistently recurring large effusions are very unfavourable. The treatment has been already considered (see p. 141). Empyema The bacteriology of empyema has been already considered. The organisms most often found are the pneumococcus, the streptococcus, the staphylococcus, and various bacteria of putre- faction. The bacillus tuberculosis is, on the whole, rare. There is a growing consensus of opinion amongst bacteriologists that a pneumo- coccus empyema is the most favourable variety, and a streptococcus empyema the least favour- able. The significance of the presence of the bacillus tuberculosis must be estimated on general principles. JEtioloyy.—In a large proportion of empy- emata the effusion is purulent from the onset, especially in children, and due either to some intensity of the morbid process or to the weak resisting power of the individual. The idea that serous pleurisies often become purulent as the result of repeated aspiration rests on no secure evidence. If, however, on a first aspira- tion the fluid is somewhat turbid in appearance and is found to be rich in cellular elements, empyema will probably result. These cases are from the outset on the way to become purulent. Pneumonia is one of the most important causes of empyema, which may either accompany or succeed the pneumonic attack. In the former case the clinical course and the physical signs may present some puzzling features until the diagnosis is made out. The attack may set in with the ordinary signs and symptoms, and for a few days no special features may be present. But the crisis is delayed, the expected improvement does not take place, the looked- for crepitus redux does not appear, and gradually unequivocal signs of fluid in the pleura make their appearance. Puncture should be early practised in these cases, as a prompt diagnosis is imperative. The pleurisy connected with scarlet fever and typhoid is often purulent. Empyema may result from disease of bone, wounds and injuries of the thorax, malignant disease of the lungs or the oesophagus, rupture of an abscess or a tubercular vomica into the pleural cavity. Tuberculous pleurisy is sometimes purulent, but is much more frequently sero-fibrinous. Empyema may occur in association with septicsemia. Pathology.—The effusion presents all grada- tions from a slightly turbid sero-pus to a thick, inspissated lumpy mass, the former condition being characteristic of recent, the latter of chronic cases. Often the effusion is of the consistence of cream. Fcetor is unusual, but may be found in traumatic cases, and in association with gangrene of the lungs or pleurte. Thickening of the pleura is usual, and may attain an extreme degree in very chronic cases. The fibrinous exudation becomes organised into granulation, and ultimately into connective tissue, and adhesions are formed. Loculation is common. The pus may become impregnated with calcareous salts, and calcareous matter may be deposited in thick layers upon the pleural surface. Diagnosis.—There is only one means of diagnosing empyema, viz. by puncture and withdrawal of some of the fluid. Often, no doubt, the presence of pus may be correctly surmised, but neither by signs nor symptoms can the surmise be translated into certainty. The physical signs of empyema and those of serous effusion are identical and have been already fully considered. Nor will the symptoms sufiice to afford a secure diagnosis. The writer has seen marked hectic fever, pro- fuse perspiration, and wasting in cases where on aspiration the fluid proved to be limpid serum, and, on the other hand, has found pus where there was little or no pyrexia or other active symptom. CEdema of the side and clubbing of the fingers are equally fallacious. These signs point to the chronicity of the case, but shed no certain light upon the character of the effusion. The history will often give a hint, but it must be reafiirmed that until some of the fluid has been withdrawn the diagnosis remains simply a more or less probable guess. In making the exploratory puncture some precautions are necessary. The exploring syringe or trocar and cannula should not be too fine, otherwise the pus will not flow through it. The thickening of the pleura may be extreme, and great difficulty may arise in gaining access to the pleural cavity. Further, loculation is common, and the pus may be missed. This error may usually be