PREGNANCY, PHYSIOLOGY OF—CHANGES IN THE MATERNAL ORGANS 225 certain extent to the altered direction and position of the cervix. There is, however, a real shortening of the cervical canal during the last fortnight of pregnancy, owing to the gradual dilatation of the canal from above downwards. Even in primiparse in most cases the OS externum is somewhat patulous during the later months, but in some it remains closed till labour sets in. In multiparse the margins of the OS are irregular, and it is always possible to introduce the tip of the finger even before the seventh month. An examination of the muscular coat of the unimpregnated uterus reveals no definite arrangement of the muscular fibres. Helie has, however, shown that during pregnancy three distinct layers can be diiferentiated—an ex- ternal, a middle, and an internal. The external layer, composed of alternating vertical and transverse fibres, covers the body and the fundus of the uterus, commencing at the junction of the cervix in front, and extending rather lower behind. At the fundus the lateral fibres diverge outwards on both sides, and are prolonged along the round ligaments, the Fallopian tubes, the ovaries, and the broad ligaments. The middle layer constitutes the bulk of the uterine wall. The fasciculi which compose it are of variable size, and cross each other in all directions. They surround the veins whose walls consist only of intima, and this arrangement affords an explanation of the arrest of haemorrhage during the contraction after delivery. The internal layer is composed partly of circular rings of muscular fibres, which are especially well marked round the openings of the Fallopian tubes and round the os inter- num, and partly of longitudinal fibres arranged in a triangular fashion—one on the anterior and one on the posterior wall of the uterus. The base of the triangle is above and the apex at the OS internum. Fibres of these three diff"erent layers pass from one stratum to the other, binding all into one continuous muscle. The muscular coat of the cervix is composed chiefly of transversely circular fibres. Changes in the Peritoneum and in the Append- ages.—Owing to the gradual increase in size of the pregnant uterus the normal relations of the pelvic peritoneum are disturbed. The layers of the broad ligaments are separated; they share in the general hypertrophy, and are carried up by the growing uterus, so that instead of being horizontal they become vertical, or nearly so. As the result of this change of position the Fallopian tubes and ovaries are drawn towards the uterus, till at the end of pregnancy they lie alongside the uterus. The changes in the relations of the peritoneum in front and behind the uterus have not been definitely determined. Pollis's observations led him to believe that the normal level of the peritoneum in the non-pregnant condition was VOL. VIII raised during pregnancy both in front and behind the uterus, whereas Webster, from an examination of frozen sections, found the inferior limit of the peritoneal pouches as low during pregnancy as before it. The round ligaments increase enormously. They become four times their normal thickness, and they so increase in length that at the end of pregnancy they extend from near the um- bilicus to the inguinal canal on each side. The utero-sacral ligaments also become enormously developed. The ovaries are almost doubled in size, and assume nearly a vertical position. Ovulation is in most cases entirely suspended. The Fallopian tubes undergo the usual hypertrophic changes, increasing in thickness and in length. The epithelial lining becomes denuded of its vibratile cilia. Changes in the Arteries and Veins of the litems.—The arteries of the uterus increase in size, in length, and in number. The change in their length is not due to their becoming less tortuous, for Jacquemier has found that they are more tortuous at the end of pregnancy than in the non-pregnant state. The ovarian arteries become about the sixth of an inch in diameter, and the uterine arteries are still larger. The branches on entering the uterus suddenly enlarge, and a very fine anastomosis is established between the two sides of the uterus. Those which pass to the endometrium subdivide freely, and end in a diffuse capillary network. The veins of the uterus become dilated into large sinuses which communicate with each other. The walls of these are intimately united with the surrounding connective tissue, and therefore when the venous channels are muti- lated the walls do not collapse, but remain more or less gaping. These veins are devoid of valves, and in the middle muscular layer the wall consists of a single coat. The ovarian veins so hypertrophy that they are almost as large as the external or internal iliac. Changes in the Lymphatics and Nerves.—The uterine lymphatic system undergoes hyper- trophic changes during pregnancy. The whole intra-uterine expanse may be looked upon as one vast lymph sinus (Spiegelberg). The lymphatic channels, when they pass from the substance of the uterus, are collected into a plexus underneath the peritoneum, especially over the fundus and along the sides of the uterus. The lymphatics of the fundus and the body pass to the lumbar glands, while those of the cervix communicate with the pelvic glands. The exact changes in the nerves have not been accurately determined. The cervical ganglion increases in size till it is three or four times as large as in the non-pregnant condition. Some authorities, including Snow, Beck, and Hirschfeld, believed that the nerves remain of the same size as in the unimpregnated uterus. 15