RENAL 506 Affections of ; Nephritis. See also Alcohol {Special Physiology, Renal Functions); Alcohol {Indications, Renal Diseases); Anesthesia, Ether {Ether and Renal Disease); Angina Pectoris {Diagnosis, Renal Calculus); Appendix Vermiformis {Api^endicitis, Diagnosis); Ascites {Causation); Asthma {Origiii); Children, Clinical Examination of {Urinary System); Colic {Diag7iosis); Gall-Bladder and Bile Ducts, Diseases of {Neu> Growths, Diagnosis); Gangrene (Septic); Gout {Irregular, Renal System); HiEMATURiA; Hydropathy {Chronic Diseases, Bright); Hysteria {Disorders of Urin- ary Systein); Ovaries, Diseases of {Tumours, Diagnosis); Retina and Optic Nerve {State of Retinal Vessels in Renal Disease); Spleen, Surgery' of (Wandering Spleen, Diagnosis); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {General Etiology, Renal Causes); Stools, Intestinal Sand (Diagnosis); Tabes Dorsalis (Symptomat- ology, Renal Crises); Therapeutics, Health Resorts (Climate, Effect on Kidney Disease); Typhoid Fever (Complications, Urino-Geni- tal); Unconsciousness ; Urine, Pathological Changes in ; Visceral Pain (Radiation). Rendu'S Type.—A type of tremor met with in hysteria; it is increased by volitional movements. Reniform.—Kidney-shaped. Renipuncture. —Puncture of the capsule of the kidney. See Decapsulation. Renk'S Method.—A method of esti- mating the amount of ground air in the soil, by placing the soil (measured quantity) in a graduated glass vessel, covering it with water, and shaking it till the air is all expelled, when, from the level at which the water stands, the amount of air expelled can be estimated. Rennes-les-Bains. See Balneology (France, Chalybeate). Rennet. See Physiology, Food and Digestion (Food Supply, Milk). Rennin. See Physiology^, Food and Digestion (Stomach, Secretion, Milk-curdling Ennyme); Digestion and Metabolism (Gastric Juice); Enzymes. Repair. See Wounds (Mode of Repair). ReperCOiation.—A stage in the pro- cess of percolation (q.v.). Repercussion.—Ballottement in the diagnosis of pregnancy ; literally, striking back again. See Pregnancy, Diagnosis. Reposition.—Replacement, e.g. of the reti'overtod, invei-ted, or prolapsed uterus or cord. See Labour, Accidental Complications (Prolapse of Cord, Treatment); Labour, In- juries to Generative Organs (Inversion of Uterus, Treatment); Pregnancy, Affections of Generative Organs (Displacements of Gravid Uterus, Prolapsus, in Hernial Sac, Retroversioii, etc.); Uterus, Displacements of the (Treat- ment). RepOSitor.—An instrument for replacing an inverted uterus or a prolapsed cord, etc. Reproductive Org^ans. See Generation, Female Organs of ; Ovaries ; Penis ; Scrotum and Testicles ; Uterus ; etc., with their Cross References. Reptiiia. See Heart, Physiology of (Comparative Anatomy, Reptilian); Heart, Congenital Malformations op (Defect of Interventricular Sep turn). Resection.—An operation in which parts are cut out; e.g. resection of a joint, submucous resection of the nasal septum, etc. See Joints, Diseases of (Tuberculous Disease, Operative Treatment). Reserve Air. See Physiology, Res- piration (Amount of Air Respired); Respira- tion (Physiology). Residual Air. See Physiology, Res- piration (Amount of Air Respired); Respira- tion (Physiology). Resin.—Resina or rosin is the residue left after cnide turpentine has had the oil of turpentine distilled from it; it contains abietic acid (q.v.), and there are two official prepara- tions (Emplastrum Resince and Unguentum Res- ince); it is used as an application for indolent ulcers and wounds, sometimes in the form of a soap. See also Oils ; Oleo-Resins. Resistance. xS'eeElectricity; Immunity (Power of Resistance to Bacter^ia). Resonance. See Chest, Clinical In- vestigation of (Percussion, Auscultation); Lung, Tuberculosis op (Physical Signs). Resorcin.—A colourless crystalline anti- septic (Cj;H^(0H)2), so called because it was originally obtained from resin and because it resembled orcin ; it is a dihydroxybenzene, and is isomeric with pyrocatechin and hydroquinone ; it is chiefly used as an ointment in chronic skin diseases (e.g. eczema). Respiration. Physiology ...... 507 Rhythm and Rate .... 507 Changes in Respired Air . . . 508 ^^ervous Mechanism.... 508 Cheyne-Stokes Respiration . . . 509 Bacteriology of Respiratory Tract . 510