422 PULSE, THE there is a distinct elevation of the line of the tracing. The Effects of Venous Pressure on the Form of Pulse Tracing are, clinically, unimpo7'tant.— It seems clear from these experiments that this common respiratory variation of the pulse— dimiiiution in the size of the beat—is not Fia. 100.—Pulse and respiration (cat). The animal is dying, and the lower tracing records the heart-beats, which are twice broken by a sighing respiration (In). The raising of the level of the tracing at inspiration is again observed. necessarily due to alterations in the pressure of the veins upon which the pad of the sphygmo- graph may rest at the time the tracing is made. The writer believes that the force of the inspiratory movement acting on the intrathor- acic vessels, and also directly upon the heart itself, plays the chief part in the production of many of these variations of the pulse-wave. In some instances, perhaps, inspiration may induce certain changes in the pulse through effects produced on the vaso-motor centre. Brockbank's explana- tion of the pulsus paradoxus in acute laryngitis is based upon the effects produced by the ex- panding lungs on the heart and vessels within I'lO. 101.—Diagrammatic representation of the ordinary cardio- gram. Filling of the ventricles from the auricles, a. Contraction of auricles. the chest, and the form of pulse obtained in this condition is simply an exaggeration of the common inspiratory variation of children. Hill recognises this influence of inspiration on the intrathoracic vessels, but asserts that it affects the sphygmogram mainly through alterations thus produced in the pressure of blood in the veins accompanying the radial artery. It is most unlikely, however, when the left ventric- ular systole raises the pad of the sphygmograph through a certain space, that the venous pres- sure in the venae comites is capable of raising the pad through a greater space, and, clinically, the careful observer may practically ignore the participation of the veins in the modification of the sphygmogram. Heart Movements The Apex-Beat.—The left apex-beat indicates the chief movement of the heart. It may often be found in the fourth interspace, and outside the nipple line in children, but in adults it is normally well inside this line. When this movement is produced by the left ventricle it is due to a displacement forwards of the hardened apex of the heart. During the whole period of systole the apex of the heart is lying against the inter- space in the chest wall. The Component Parts of the Cardiographic Tracing. — The ordinary cardiogram from the left ventricular systole may be interpreted as follows (see Figs. 101 and 102) :— 1. The forward movement of the ventricle as it begins to contract (D). 2. Reten- tion of the apex against the interspace, i.e. full contraction (E). 3. The backward movement of the ventricle as it begins to dilate (F). 4. The gradual swelling of the ventricle up to the full dilatation (G). Sometimes a small elevation {a) before the period D marks the contraction of the auricles. The period E may be very transient if the Fig. 102.—The ordinary cardiocram from the apex-beat of a child iet. 10 years, showing the different phases of the ventricular contraction. The lower tracing was taken simultaneously from the radial pulse. A rise in the cardiograpine tracing occurs at the time of ventricular systole; E in sphygmogram. ventricles shrink during their systole away from the interspace (Fig. 103), and it may be repre- sented by a large, well-sustained elevation, the " systolic plateau," when the apical protrusion into the interspace is forcible and lasting [see Fig. 104). The ''Shock" due to the Systole of the Left Fig. 103.—Cardiogram where the retention of the ventricular apex against the interspace has been transient—rounded instru- mental ape.\, E, to the curve due to "shock " of systole. Ventricle.—The shock dne to the left ventricular systole is important, for it is quite a different thing from the systole itself. The systole lasts during all the time of the apex-beat. The "shock" may often be a transient portion of the cardiogram, but it may jerk up the lever of the instrument and form a large instrumental apex in some tracings, which is sometimes the only movement distinguishable.