366 PUERPERIUM, PATHOLOGY OF spleen, and liver. The skin is often icteric or covered with petechia or an erysipelatous blush. Pyemia Metrophlebitis would be a more correct term, because the inflammation spreads from the uterus to the veins, a phlebothrombosis being the essential characteristic, the formation of pus an accidental complication. The strepto- cocci either invade the thrombi aliready existing in the mouths of the veins, or they first grow along the walls (periphlebitis) and then into them, causing inflammation of the intima, and thereby clotting and thrombosis. The thrombi thus infected break down and are carried as minute septic emboli through the vena cava to the heart and pulmonary system, causing infarc- tions. In pulmonary abscesses the micrococci themselves may pass through the pulmonary capillaries to the left side of the heart, and from thence be distributed throughout the body, causing abscesses in various parts. The process of thrombosis may extend widely, without the detachment of emboli, involving the pelvic, iliac, and femoral veins. Pyaemia commences as a rule much later in childbed than septicsemia. It has been observed to occur more frequently in cases in which there has been some anomaly in the third stage, either premature expulsion of the placenta by Grade's method, or its reten- tion and manual removal; also after placenta prtevia. It is especially liable to supervene upon a septic endometritis or sloughing carci- noma. The endometritis may have been over- looked, and the practitioner be assured that the patient has been quite well, until a violent rigor at once attracts attention. The patient looks very ill, with pinched features, chattering teeth, and shaking limbs. The temperature rises at once to 104°-105° F. or more ; sweating sets in, followed by rapid defervescence to normal or below it; the patient feels relieved and looks well, and unless the condition is complicated by septicjemia (septico-pysBmia) there are none of the alarming symptoms of that condition present. The practitioner who arrives after the alarming symptoms have sub- sided should not be betrayed into giving too favourable an opinion upon finding the pulse and temperature normal and the condition of the patient good. A single rigor does not, of course, establish the diagnosis of pytemia, and the disease, when present, may end in recovery after two or three rigors and without any localisation of pus; but usually the rigors return after an interval varying from hours to days, and abscesses appear in different parts of the body. They occur most frequently in the lungs, attended by pleuritic pains, with bloody or purulent expectoration; in the kidneys, causing lumbar pain, accompanied by the presence of albumin or blood in the urine. The spleen is generally enlarged. An abscess may form in the liver. The hepatitis may cause jaundice, but the yellow colour of the skin so frequently observed in these cases is most com- monly due to the breaking down of the red blood cells. Not infrequently the joints are aff"ected and become completely disorganised, or the sheaths of the tendons, especially those of the forearm, suppurate. Subcutaneous ab- scesses occur much more frequently in puer- peral than in surgical pysemia; they form most often in the gluteal region, and as they are seldom associated with abscesses in the deeper organs their occurrence is a favourable sign. The parotid gland, endocardium, and eye are less frequently attacked. Course and Duration.—Sometimes the disease ends in recovery in a week or two, in others fatally, and the 16th to the 22nd day after delivery is the commonest term in such cases ; in others rigors continue for a month or more, but such protracted cases generally recover. Prognosis is always uncertain; about half the cases recover. The danger depends chiefly upon the importance of the organs affected, and those patients who are affected with subcu- taneous abscesses recover as a rule. Ulcerative Endocarditis is a form of septicaemia, but as it is sometimes a primary localisation and presents a peculiar train of symptoms it requires separate con- sideration. It commences with fever, generally ushered in by a rigor; the temperature rises rapidly, and reaches its maximum on the second or third day ; it remains high throughout, with moderate remissions, and attended by repeated rigors. The pulse varies from 140 to 160, and is weak and dicrotous. The nervous symptoms are especially prominent: sleeplessness, head- ache, giddiness, delirium, apathy, and great prostration. There is delirium usually of a low muttering form, though occasionally of a wildly maniacal character, and the patient sinks into stupor and coma. The neck is retracted, with convulsive twitchings, strabismus, grinding of the teeth, and paralysis; a common symptom is persistent diarrhoea. The ophthalmoscope re- veals retinal haemorrhages. Cardiac murmurs are usually absent, but even if detected do not assist the diagnosis, since such murmurs are common in lying-in women; it depends upon the general and especially upon the nervous symp- toms, the repeated rigors, and the retinal haemor- rhages. Ulcerative endocarditis differs from ordinary septicaemia in the absence of peri- tonitis, the early cerebral symptoms, and the longer duration of the disease ; from pyaemia in the continued fever without intermissions and the absence of local pus formations. It re- sembles enteric fever in the constant diarrhoea and splenic enlargement, but differs from it in the course of the fever, the character of the stools, and the negative result of Vidal's test.