POST-MORTEM METHODS 205 Left Auricle.—Join the upper right and lower left pulmonary vein, and continue the incision into the auricular appendix. Note dilatation, presence of ante- or post- mortem thrombus, thickening of the muscle or endocardium. The endocardium normally is thicker than that in the right auricle. Press the finger down into the mitral opening, and note presence of stenosis, dilatation, thickening of the cusps, calcareous deposit, recent vegeta- tions. The orifice normally, in the adult, admits two fingers. Make an incision anteriorly into the Left Ventricle parallel to the septiim ventriculorum, as in the case of the right ventricle, and in a similar way test the competence of the aortic valve. Take the cone diameters if desired. Dissect away the aorta from the pulmonary artery, and extend the incision in the ventricle upwards into the aorta, passing between two of the cusps. Examine the aortic cusps for vegetations, thickening, contraction, dilatation, adhesions in the angles, calcification; infective redundant granulations, ulcerating in their centre, destroy- ing the cusps, and extending on to the wall of the aorta or ventricle. Slit up the coronary arteries, and note presence of atheroma or calcification in their walls and that of the aorta. Note thickening and contraction of chordse tendinese, accompanying a similar change in the mitral segments, indicating old endo- carditis. Examine the wall for cloudy swelling, fatty degeneration and infiltration, myocarditis, in- farct, and aneurysm. Cloudy swelling causes pallor (often patchy) of the muscle, chiefly near the endocardium. Fatty degeneration and infiltration show appear- ances similar to those described in the right ventricle. If sections be made across the ven- tricle, near the apex, small white patches in the midst of the muscle indicate chronic fibroid myocarditis. Hsemorrhagic infarcts appear as brownish necrosed patches in the muscle. Aneurysms are localised dilatations near the apex of the ventricle, and result from myo- carditis or infarct. Note dilatation and hypertrophy of the walls. The ventricle in the adult measures about three inches from base to apex internally. The thickness varies from one-quarter of an inch at the apex to one-half to three-quarters at a short distance from the auriculo-ventricular groove. The papillary muscles and columnse carnese usually partake in the hypertrophy. Note presence of an abnormal persistent aper- ture in the septum ventriculorum. This is placed usually just below the right posterior aortic cusp. If exact measurements of the orifices be de- sired the "cones" should be passed in the direction of the blood-stream before slitting them up. The normal cone diameters are :— Aorta, 0'9 in. to I'O in. Mitral, M in. to 1-2 in. Pulmonary artery, 1 in. to 1"1 in. Tricuspid, 1*4 in. to 1"8 in. Weigh the heart after examination, as now all blood-clot is removed. In the adult the weight varies from 9 ounces in the female to 11 ounces in the male. Externally it should measure at least 5 inches in length, 3^ inches in breadth, and 2^ inches in thickness. The Lungs. — On opening the thorax the lungs, if absolutely healthy, would collapse. As a rule, however, they remain more or less voluminous. Collapse may be prevented by the presence of tough mucus in the bronchi, by vesicular emphysema, consolidation (inter- stitial or exudative), pleural adhesions, or other causes. Passing the left hand into the left pleura, free any adhesions present, draw the lung forwards out of the thorax, and divide the root from behind. Remove the right lung in a similar fashion. Weigh the lungs as soon as removed. The weight of the left kmg varies from 15 ounces in the female to 21 ounces in the male, and that of the right lung from 17 ounces in the female to 24 ounces in the male. Examine the surface. Note any deviation from the normal subdivision of the left lung into two, and the right into three lobes. In emphysema the parts affected are distended, pale, spongy, and contain little pigment. The condi- tion is practically always present along the anterior borders. In excessive emphysema there may be large bullae attached to the lung. Areas of colla2:)se are dark in colour, non-vesicular, and depressed below the general surface. Firm areas raised above the general surface occur in lobular pneumonia, particularly tubercular, in infarction, and in stonemasons' lung. In the very young, and in dwellers in the country, the lungs are pinkish in colour; but in all dwellers in towns, and in workers in mines especially, the lungs show a varying degree of black carbon pigmentation. This maps out the lobules on the outer surface, and follows the interlobular septa, vessels, and bronchi on the cut surface. If excessive the condition is called anthracosis, or coal-miners' lung. The walls of the bronchi and vessels are never pigmented. There may be pits or grooves on the surface, cicatricial in origin. At the bottom of the pit the lung substance may contain a calcareous, whitish nodule, surrounded by fibrous tissue, all that remains of an old tuberculous condition. Cicatricial grooves may also result from contrac- tion of areas of collapse, or are due to new formation of fibrous tissue along the septa and its contraction. This may occur in syphilis and other conditions causing interstitial pneumonia.