188 PODOPHYLLI RESINA acting purgatives, it may be swept away before any effect has been produced. It is especially useful in biliousness, sluggish hepatic action, and hepatic cirrhosis. It causes considerable griping, and should therefore be combined with hyoscyamus or some other drug which will pre- vent this. It forms an important constituent of many "dinner pills." In some cases of summer diarrhoea in children and of chronic diarrhoea in adults minute doses of podophyllin frequently repeated have a beneficial effect. Podophyllum, Indian. —In the Indian and Colonial Addendum to the British Pharmacopoeia, the dried rhizome and roots of Podophyllum emodi (under the name of Podo- phylli Indici Rhizoma) as well as the resin obtained therefrom {Podophylli Indici Resina) are officinal. From the latter the Tinctura Podophylli Indici (dose, 5 to 15 m.) is pre- pared. Indian podophyllum is used for the same purposes as the podophyllum of the B.P. Pogrgi's Corpuscles. — Red blood corpuscles, probably in an immature state, which "stain with basic dyes in the fresh, unfixed specimen" {^Da Costa). Pog'Onia.SiS.—The excessive growth of the beard in a man, or the development of hair on the chin of a woman (Gr. Trtoyoji/, a beard). PoikiiO-. — In compound words poikilo- (Gr. TToiKiAos, variegated) means irregularly shaped ; thus poikilocytosis means that condition of the blood in which it contains poikilocytes or deformed red blood corpuscles (most often the deformity is crenation, but other irregularities are met with). See Chlorosis (Pathology, Poikilocytosis). Point. — A defined place or spot. See M'Burney's Point. Poisoning'. See Toxicology; Pyemia; Septicemia ; etc. Poison Nut.—A synonym of nux vomica (q.V.). Poisons. — See Catheters, Uses and Dangers {Septic Poisoning) ; Food {Effects of eating Impure Food); Medicine, Forensic {Post-mortem Examination in Cases of Suspected Poisoning); Morphinomania ; Pregnancy, In- tra-Uterine Diseases {Effect of Poisons on the Foetus and Placenta); Snake-Bites and Poison- ous Fishes {Poisonous Fish); Toxicology ; Trades, Dangerous {Lead-Poisoning, etc.). " Poker-Back."—Rigidity of the spine with anchylosis of the vertebrfe due to arthritis deformans or other disease; spondylitis de- formans. Polar Bodies.—The small globules or bodies thrown off by the ovum during the process of maturation. See Foetus and Ovum, Development of {Ripening of the Ovum). Pole.—Each of the extremities of the axis of a body, either spherical or spheroidal or ovoid, e.g. the crystalline lens of the eye, the foetus in utero ; in electricity each of the ter- minal points of a battery is termed a pole (positive and negative). Polenta. See Pellagra {Causes, Maize Polenta). Policlinic.—Medical instruction given in the houses of patients in a town, or, more re- cently, in a dispensary or out-patient depart- ment of a hospital (Gr. ttoAis, a city, /cAtViy, a bed). Pol iencephal it is. —Inflammation of the grey matter of the brain (Gr. ttoAws, grey, €y/ce(^aAos, the brain). Polio-.—In compound words polio- (Gr. TToAtos, grey or hoary) means grey. Polioencephalomyelitis.—inflam mation of the grey matter of the brain and spinal cord. See Myasthenia Gravis {Diag- nosis). Poliomyelitis.. — Inflammation of the grey matter of the spinal cord. See Paralysis {With Atrophy of Muscles, Acute and Subacute Anterior Poliomyelitis). See also Deformities {From Cerebral and Spinal Paralysis). POI i O p I as m.—Granular protoplasm. Poliosis or Poliothrix.—Canities ; greyness, premature or senile, of the hair. See Canities and Cross References. Politzer'S Bag-.—An india-rubber bag used for inflating the middle ear, inflation so produced being termed Politzer's Method or politzerisation. See Ear, Examination op {In- flation through the Eustachian Tube). Pol laki Uria. — Abnormal frequency of micturition (Gr. TroAAa/cts, many times). Pollantin.—A powder recommended for the treatment of hay fever ; it is applied directly to the nostrils or conjunctiva; it is also used in a liquid form; and it is said to give relief in a certain number of cases. Pollen.—See Hay Fever {Etiology). Pol lex.—The thumb; thus, many of the muscles of the hand have names in which pollicis (of the thumb) is included, e.g. flexor brevis pollicis, etc. Pollution. See Water {Sources of Im- purity). PoltfOOt.—Club-foot, See Deformities.