MULTIPLE PREGNANCY 236 5. Placenta and Membranes . . 237 6. Sex of Twins 237 7. Diagnosis 237 8. Course of Pregnancy in . . . 237 1. Definition and Varieties.—One child at a birth is the natural or normal law in woman, but plural conceptions are not infrequent. The pregnancy is then spoken of as multiple. Two at a birth is comparatively common as compared with higher numbers, and is taken as the type of plural conceptions. Cases of three are rare, once in about 7000 deliveries; four still more rare, and of five not more than six or seven cases have been recorded. More than five at a birth has not been reliably authenticated. 2. Frequency.—The proportion of twins to single births may be regarded generally as 1 in 80 deliveries. Variations in frequency are shown in the statistics of different countries, from 1 in 60 (Bohemia and Ireland) to 1 in 100 (France), or 1 in 120 (New York). These apparent differences, however, may, to a large extent, be due to different systems of registra- tion, and to defects, such as omission of abortions, in the registers. The frequency is no indication of the comparative fertility of the respective nations. 3. The infiuences ivhich predispose to twin- hearing have attracted considerable attention, but the conclusions arrived at reach only a varying degree of probability. There is abundant evidence to show in many cases a hereditary influence, and also to support the opinion that there is an association between twin-hearing and prolificacy, but these influences, in all proba- bility, apply to one class of twins only, the binovular, and not to the monochorionic or homologous twins. The influence of the mother's age and the number of the pregnancy have been carefully worked out by Dr. Matthews Duncan. The following statements indicate the results of his investigations regarding the points in question:— (1) The mean age of twin-bearing mothers is greater than that of mothers generally. (2) While of all births three-fifths occurred among women under thirty, there occurred only two-fifths of the twins among the younger women. (3) From the earliest child-bearing period till the age of forty is reached, the tendency to twin-bearing increases—or, in other words, the proportion of mothers of twins to mothers of the same age increases as the fertile women grow older. (4) The same is found as regards the initial fertility. Newly married women are more likely to have twins the older they are. Every one hundred and fifty-third woman among the youngest fertile women beax's twins within two years after marriage; among the older women, from thirty-five to forty years of age, every forty-second woman bears twins within two years after marriage, or nearly four times as many. (5) As regards the number of the mother's pregnancy, the proportional frequency of twins increases with the number of the pregnancy. To this general statement there is an exception in the case of first pregnancies. Woman has apparently an increased chance of bearing twins in her first pregnancy. Influence of the Male. — Cases have been recorded which appear to support the view that the male may exert some influence in the pro- creation of twins ; as where a man twice married has had twins by both his wives; or where a marked hereditary tendency to twin-bearing has been traced in successive generations, it has manifested itself in the family of one of the males. Seeing, however, that twins must primarily depend on ovulation, such instances may be regarded as mere coincidents, unless it can be shown that the generative vigour of the husband can stimulate the function of ovulation in the wife. 4. Origin and Development.—Twins may be developed from two ova, binovular, derived from either a single Graafian follicle, or two separate ones, in the same or different ovaries ; or they may take origin from one ovum, uni- ovular, containing a double germ. Ahlfeld has advanced the view that twins may take origin from division in the formative matei'ial within a single area germinativa. When the division is complete, separate twins are produced with a single amnion, or if incom- plete, conjoined twins or some form of double monster is the result. Evidence of the origin and mode of develop- ment can be obtained by making a careful examination of the placentse and membranes. This should always be done, especially where anything peculiar in the foetuses or labour has been observed. The want of any note as to the relation of the membranes to the foetuses has much impaired the value of the record of cases. In certain conditions the relationship may be difficult to determine. The separability of the chorion from the amnion at full term and the difference in transparency make easy the recog- nition of the envelopes. During examination the structures should be placed under water. When binovular there are two chorions, dichorionic, and t^vo anmiotic sacs, and if the ova have been embedded in the mucosa sufficiently apart, each will have had a separate decidua reflexa, but when close together the latter may have been in common. When uniovular the chorion is single, mono- chorionic, but with two amniotic sacs in nearly every case. Occasionally both foetuses lie in a common amnion. A single chorion occurs once in eight cases, a single amnion once in 132 twin pregnancies (Ahlfeld).