PUERPERIUM, PHYSIOLOGY OF 359 of the uterus which is not less than 4 to 9 cm. (1| to 3^ in.). Groom attributes these results to observations being made at varying periods of the puerperium. He finds that in the early puerperium the uterus is not displaced appreciably till the bladder contains 20 to 30 oz. of urine. 5. The Abdominal Walls.—After the great distension produced by the pregnant uterus, the abdominal walls after delivery lie flaccid and loose, appearing to be too large for the ab- dominal contents, and the skin is wrinkled. For some weeks the muscles are lacking in tonicity, and, owing to their elongation, they cannot contract efficiently. To this cause among others may be traced the paresis of the vaso-motor system, of the bowels, and of the bladder. In some cases, and especially after rapidly succeed- ing pregnancies, the common tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis is so stretched that the two recti remain separated, and when the patient strains the abdominal contents bulge between them, causing a ventral hernia in the form of a long, low vertical ridge. When the recti and the lateral abdominal muscles alike fail to I'egain their tone a pendulous belly results, which is not only inconvenient and ungraceful at ordinary times, but may result in consider- able inconvenience during subsequent preg- nancies, leading to malpresentations and to inertia during labour. 6. Evidences of Recent Delivery.—The diag- nosis of recent delivery has sometimes a medico- legal importance, and it may depend on ana- tomical or on clinical signs. Anatomically, the condition of the uterus is of chief importance. It is not necessary to recapitulate what has already been said on this point. Glinically, evidence is derived from the condi- tion of the abdomen, breasts, and genital tract. On examining the abdomen its walls are loose and ill-fitting, and traversed by strii3e of a more or less vivid red. It is assumed that the rapid emptying of the abdomen due to other causes, such as the evacuation of fluids or the removal of tumours, can be excluded, for in this manner also the lax condition of the abdominal walls could be accounted for. The striae, however, are seldom so well marked or so red in other conditions as they are in the puerperium ; and moreover, there is usually a marked pigmenta- tion of the linea alba after labour. On palpa- tion of the abdomen, the enlarged uterus can be felt occupying the pelvis. Further examina- tion will be required to distingviish this from other kinds of tumour. The breasts are en- larged and tense, and present a large dark areola. Milk is freely secreted. The condition of the breasts gives but little indication as to the date of the delivery, except that, if the secretion consists of colostrum, labour must have occurred only one or two days previously. On examination of the genital tract, lochia are found flowing from the vagina. If they are mainly composed of blood, we have probably to do with the first ten days of the puerperium ; later, the discharge is sero-sanguinolent, and, later still, serous. The vulva is fovmd swollen, and appears rather bruised. Some laceration of the fourchette or perineum will usually be present. The vagina is lax, stretched, and may present some lacerations, whilst its lower portion gapes. The cervix is soft and thickened, and for the first day or two after labour its outlines may be difficult to define. The lips of the cervix present some recent lacerations or fissures, and the canal is patulous, especially in its lower portion, where for the first few days it readily admits one or two fingers. Bimanually, the uterus is felt to be enlarged and usually strongly anteverted. The date of delivery can be roughly estimated by the height of the fundvis uteri above the symphysis pubis. If the case be watched for a week or ten days, the gradual diminution in size of the uterus is quite characteristic, as it can be simulated by no other condition. II. The Management of the Puerperium 1. First Duties.—After the expulsion of the placenta the patient should be cleansed and made comfortable. The advisability of a vaginal douche as a matter of routine is the subject of some difference of opinion. In hospital practice we think that the douche should always be given, whilst in private practice it is sometimes better that it should be omitted. The indica- tions for the employment or withholding of the douche may be broadly formulated as follows :— The douche is indicated (a) in all cases of operative delivery, such as forceps, turning (by internal manipulations), and craniotomy; (b) in other cases where the hand has been intro- duced, as for the replacement of the funis, the bringing down of the arms in extension above the after-coming head, or the extraction of placenta or membranes; (c) in tedious or difficult labours, involving injury to cervix, vagina, or perineum ; (d) when the foetus is decomposed ; (e) when purulent or muco-puru- lent discharges were present before labour; (/) when there is a tendency to post-partum haemorrhage. The douche may be withheld (a) when labour has throughout been spontaneous, and no vaginal examination has been made; (b) when a few examinations have been made in a normal case, and the uterus contracts well. An intra-uterine douche should be given only when there has been intra-uterine manipulation, or when the uterus does not contract well. After the cleansing a binder should be applied. It should consist of a material sufficiently soft to allow of its fitting closely ; below, it should reach four inches below the trochanters, and above it should just come up to the front of the