39 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES No air exists between the lungs and the sides and base of the thorax, so that the so-called pleural cavity is simply a potential space. If the thoracic wall be punctured so that this potential pleural cavity is brought into connec- tion with the air, the lungs immediately collapse and occupy a small space posteriorly round the large bronchi. This is due to their elasticity ^Fig. 143). The lungs are kept in the distended condition in the thoracic cavity by the atmospheric pres- sure within them. Their elasticity varies according to whether the organs are stretched or not. As they col- lapse, their elastic force naturally becomes less and less; as they are expanded, greater and Fig. 143.—Shows the distribution of pressure in the thorax with the ohest wall iutact, and with an opening into the pleural cavity, (i) indicates the atmospheric pressure of 760 mm. of mercury ; 30 is the elasticity of the lungs also in mm. of mercury. greater. Taken in the average condition of expansion in which they exist in the chest, the elasticity of the excised lungs of a man is capable of supporting a column of mercury of about 30 mm. in height, so that they are constantly tending to collapse with this force. But the iriside of the lungs freely communi- cates with the atmosphere, and this, at the sea level, has a pressure of about 760 mm. Hg. During one part of respiration this pressure becomes a few mm. less, during another part a few mm. more; but the mean pressure of 760 mm. of mercury is constantly expanding the lung, and acting against a pressure of only 30 mm. of mercury, tending to collapse the lung. Obviously, therefore, the lungs must be kept expanded and in contact with the chest wall. When a pleural cavity is opened, the dis- tribution of forces is altered, for now the atmospheric pressure tells also on the outside as well as on the inside of the lungs and acts along with the elasticity of the organ. So that now a force of 760 mm. + 30 mm. = 790 mm. acts against 760 mm., causing a collapse of the lungs. In the surgery of the thorax, as well as in the physiology of respiration, these points are of great importance. II. Physiology. — The process of external respiration consists of two parts— \st. The passage of air into and out of the air sacs. 2nd. The interchange of gases between the air in the air vesicles and the blood in the capillaries. A. Passage of Air into and out of the Lungs This is brought about— 1st. By the movements of respiration— breathing. 2nd. By difltusion of gases. The air is made to pass into and out of the lungs by alternate inspiration and expiration. 1. Movements of Respiration—A. Inspiration. —During this act the thoracic cavity is increased in all directions—lateral, antero-posterior, and vertical. As the thorax expands, the air pressure inside the lungs keeps them pressed against the chest wall, and the lungs expand with the chest. As a result of this expansion of the lungs the pressure inside becomes less than the atmospheric pressure, and air rushes in until the pressure inside and outside again becomes equal. This can be shown by placing a tube in the mouth or in a nostril and con- necting it with a water manometer. This expansion of the lungs can readily be determined in the vertical direction by per- cussion, and in the horizontal planes by measurement. By tapping the chest with the finger over the lung in the right intercostal spaces, a resonant note is produced, while if the percussion is performed below the level of the lung, a dull note is heard. If the lower edge of this resonance be determined before an inspiration, and again during it, it will be found to have descended. As a result of inspiration, the form of the chest is markedly modified, the change being best seen in transverse sections. In expiration the chest in transverse section is an elongated ellipse from side to side, in inspiration it becomes more circular (Fig. 144). The change from side to side and from behind forwards is best marked towards the lower part of the chest, less marked in the upper part. These changes may be recorded by means of a Cyrto- meter, a piece of flexible gas-tubing hinged behind, so that it can be modelled to the chest. The change from above downwards cannot be directly seen, but it is indicated by a forward movement of the wall of the abdomen. It will be described when considering the mechanism by which it is brought about. The expansion of the chest in inspiration is a muscular act and is carried out against the following forces— \st. The Elasticity of the Lungs.-—To expand the lungs their elastic force has to be overcome, and the more they are expanded the greater is their elasticity. This factor therefore plays a smaller part at the begiiming than towards the end of inspiration. 2nd. The Elasticity of the Chest Wall.—The