PUERPERIUM, PATHOLOGY OF 383 These authorities may therefore be divided into those who hold that the disease is a sar- coma and those who regard it as a carcinoma. Sanger regarded it as a sarcoma of the cellular layer of the decidua because of the similarity of structure in both, the size and shape of the cells, and the presence of a reticulum, the only difference being that in the pathological cells the nuclei were larger and the surrounding protoplasmic ring narrower. He rejected Veit's theoi'y that the disease was due to the modifica- tion of a pre-existing sarcoma, because no case had been recorded of the implantation of an ovum upon a sarcomatous or carcinomatous endometrium; and he believed that his claim to the growth being different from all others hitherto described stood or fell with its origin during pregnancy. Veit, however, in the newly published Handbuch der Gynaekologie, still main- tains that the sarcoma precedes the pregnancy and is modified by it. He admits that no case has been recorded of the implantation of an ovum upon a carcinomatous endometrium, but in nodular sarcoma the membrane resembles that in myomatous uteri ; and that as preg- nancy occurs in the one, so it may also in the other. He considers that it is impossible to regard all the protoplasmic masses as true syncytium derived from the outer layer of the villi, but rather, as it has been shown, that in normal pregnancy other cells, such as the epithelium of the lining membrane of the uterus, and especially of its glands, often take on a syncytial form, and therefore syncytium in the wider sense cannot be regarded as a distinct tissue, but as a stage in the development of certain cells. So a sarcoma may under the influence of pregnancy come to resemble syn- cytium ; and since foetal elements are not always found in these cases, they cannot be regarded as the chief characteristic ; but as masses resembling syncytium are the rule, the disease should be regarded as a process in which, under the influence of pregnancy, certain cells take on a syncytial character. Hydatidiform moles, so frequently associated with deciduoma, are not the cause but the result of uterine disease ; and regarding deciduoma in a similar manner, the primary disease is to be sought for in the uterus. In fibro-sarcomata the uterine mucous mem- brane is in a condition resembling that in myo- mata, in which pregnancy often occurs, and so it may in sarcomata; but under the influence of pregnancy the growth undergoes changes, and its cells assume a syncytial character. Under the influence of the growth, pregnancy may be disturbed or ended, a hydatidiform mole develop, or it may go to term. At the birth the entire ovum may be expelled, or a villus or villous epithelium retained grows into the veins and is carried into the circulation, causing metastases; in either case the tumour goes on growing and leads to a fatal termination. The disease remains the same whether it does or does not contain foetal elements, the latter being- accidental. The essentials are the original uterine disease and the occurrence of pregnancy, under the influence of which the syncytial changes in the growth occur. Gottschalk, in 1892, described a case in which the stroma of the villi was changed into a structure formed entirely of large polymorphous cells, whose epithelial covering showed a re- markable proliferation ; he regarded the disease as a sarcoma, and believed that it originated in the stroma of the villi. This case was the first in which the disease was diagnosed and the uterus extirpated during the patient's life. The majority of pathologists regard this dis- ease as of epithelial origin, and therefore a carci- noma ; foremost amongst whom is Marchand, whose writings have done much to elucidate its pathology, and especially its connection with hydatidiform mole. In an elaborate paper, beautifully illustrated, which he read before the British Gynjecological Society in June 1899, Dr. Haultain warmly advocated Marchand's views, and stated that the chain of evidence in favour of this new growth being of epithelial origin had to his mind no weak link. The structural appearances, the physiological prototype of the young villi, and the interesting association with myxoma of the chorion, which it closely resembles anatomically, physiologically, and pathologically, all serve to prove that it is of epithelial origin. It would be impossible in the present state of our knowledge to say which of these views is the correct one. [Marchand's views are now generally accepted. It is believed that both the syncytium and Langhans' layer of cells are foetal in origin, and that on this account the term deciduoma is incorrect. The name chorio-epithelioma is now generally accepted as more correctly indicating the nature and origin of this malignant growth. New problems have arisen in connection with this curious pathological development, viz. the relation to it of lutein cysts of the ovary, and the meaning of the occurrence of a similar growth in the male subject as a metastasis from a teratoma of the testicle.] Pulex. See Parasites {Insects, Diptera, Pulex irritans); Skin Diseases op the Tropics {Animal Parasites, Pulex penetrans); Stinging Insects {Pulex irritans). Pullna. See Balneology {Austria- Hungary, Sulphated Waters). Pulmonary. — Belonging to the lungs (Lat. pubno, a lung), e.g. pulmonary embolism, pulmonary fibrosis, pulmonary ttiberculosis, etc. ; or to the pulmonary valves of the heart, e.g. pulmonary incompetence, pulmonary stenosis, etc. See Lungs, Diseases of, and Cross References. See