138 PLEURA, DISEASES OF of pleural effusion has usually had a more or less "distant" quality, which may help to distinguish it from the bronchial breathing of consolidation, but this rule is not invariable. It is probable that where bronchial breathing is present in pleural effusion the large bronchi are still patent. Vocal resonance presents considerable varia- tions, and should not be much relied upon in diagnosis. In the writer's experience one of the most usual changes is a certain flatness or loss of tone, rather than a mere weakening of the voice on the affected side. Sometimes the vocal resonance is simply weak, sometimes there is bronchophony. The term segophony has been applied to a certain bleating quality of voice occasionally heard near the angle of the scapula at the upper level of moderate effusions. This sign is rare. It is of small diagnostic importance, and the term " ajgophony" might well be dropped. Baccelli thinks that the whispered voice is well conveyed through serous, but not through purulent effusions (Baccelli's sign). This obser- vation has not been generally confirmed. (e) Mensuration.—In large effusions the semi- circumference of the chest is increased on the affected side, but, as Gee well points out, " by the passage of the elliptical form into the circular, considerable increase in the sectional area of the chest may occur whilst the length of the periphery remains the same. Moreover, the displacement of the mediastinum thrusts the heart into the unaffected side. Add this con- sideration, too, that the walls of the healthy side must follow the antero-posterior projection of the diseased side, and then it will be plain why, as a matter of fact, the perimeter of the affected side often measures very little more, nay, sometimes even less, than the side which is not diseased." The cyrtometer may be used with advantage. (/) Succussion.—The venerable sign, " Hippo- cratic succussion," one of the earliest fruits of medical observation, is, of course, only present when the pleura contains air as well as fluid. (g) Displacement of Organs.—Displacement of the heart is the rule, displacement of the liver and spleen the exception, in pleural effusion. The displacement of the heart is more marked in left than in right effusions. The writer has removed 45 oz. of serum from the right pleura in a patient in whom no displacement of the heart could be made out. Such exceptional cases are, however, rare, and great importance must be attached to the position of this organ in any case of doubt or difficulty. Neglect of this rule has been a fruitful source of errors in diagnosis. The usual limits of displacement of the heart are the right mammary line and the left axillary line, but these limits may be ex- ceeded. In addition to lateral displacement the heart is often raised. Under these circum- stances the impulse may be due either to the normal apex or to the right ventricle. Epi- gastric pulsation may occur. A systolic murmur is often audible over the heart in pleural effusion, and is probably due to some altered relation between the heart and the great vessels. It disappears with absorption of the effusion. Upon the unaffected side the movements are exaggerated, and the vesicular murmur is intensified. Stage of Absorption.—After a period varying from two or three days to two or three weeks, serous effusions in a large majority of cases begin to undergo absorption. The chief signs of the receding wave are the reappearance of vocal fremitus, if this has been entirely absent, some diminution in the absolutely wooden tone of the percussion note, the gradual return of displaced organs to their normal position, and the reappearance of friction sound and of the vesicular murmur. According to Gee the liquid disappears in something like the following order:—From the vertebral groove near the root of the lung; from the supra-mammary region; from the rest of the vertebral groove and infra-scapular region ; from the infra-mam- mary region ; and, lastly, from the lower lateral region. He adds, however, that " we must be prepared to find the residue of liquid in almost any part of the chest." In the writer's experi- ence the fluid has often lingered longest at the base of the lung posteriorly, and this is probably the rule in patients who have been much confined to bed. The rapidity with which absorption is accom- plished A'aries within very wide limits. Some- times it is fully accomplished in a few days, more often it is somewhat delayed, and not uncommonly it is a tedious and lingering process. Slight dulness on percussion and some impairment of the vesicular murmur may remain for long periods, or for life, in patients who have apparently made a complete recovery. In many cases, however, no trace of the attack remains. The notion that in this latter group of cases permanent adhesions have occurred does not seem warranted by the evidence at present available to us. More or less retraction of the side often remains after an attack of pleurisy. The mythical cases of "people living with one lung" are usually instances of old pleurisies where an extreme degree of retraction of one side of the chest has occurred. In other cases the lung undergoes more or less carnifica- tion, and the patient remains permanently short-winded and debilitated, or becomes the subject of tuberculosis. Complications.—Pleurisy has few character- istic complications. The other serous mem- branes—most often the pericardium, very rarely the peritoneum—may share in the morbid pro- cess. Albuminuria is not uncommon, but is