364 PUERPERIUM, PATHOLOGY OF ments and clothing, or on materials used for cleansing purposes. The medical attendant may have been contaminated by suppurating or sloughing wounds, erysipelas, diphtheria, or dead and putrid matter, and the nurse may have handled septic or putrid discharges. Such hands would be peculiarly liable to propagate disease; but it must not be forgotten that dangerous material is everywhere, and that under all circumstances our hands are impreg- nated with germs, often of a most virulent nature. At one time the air was supposed to be the chief source of infection, but the results of antiseptic midwifery showed that this was not the case, and it then came to be regarded as of little importance. But this is equally erroneous, and there can be no doubt that many cases of putrefaction, if not of actual septi- csemia, have been due to air vitiated by decom- posing matter, and we cannot safely ignore the importance of a pure atmosphere in a lying-in chamber. Clinical Features When infectious material has been introduced into the genital canal its further history depends upon whether the micro-organisms are able to penetrate the tissues or not. In the former case they are generally carried by the lym- phatics and blood-vessels to distant parts— SEPTIC INFECTION; whereas in the latter they remain upon the surface, causing putrefaction, and the toxins thus formed cause putrid intoxi- cation or sapryEMIa. We may conveniently classify puerperal in- fections as follows :— 1. Vulvitis a7id Vaginitis. 2. Endometritis. 3. Paiumetritis and Perimetritis. 4. Septicaemia. 5. Pycemia. 6. Endocarditis. 7. Phlegmasia alha dolens. This classification is artificial, and in practice the various conditions occur in every possible variety of combinations, yet for descriptive purposes, and with regard to prognosis and treatment, it will be found useful. Vulvitis, Vaginitis, and Endometritis may remain as purely local conditions, or they may be the first steps in a systemic infection. The chief points to be observed in determining this vital question are, the aspect of the patient; her subjective condition ; whether she can or cannot sleep ; and the rate and condition of her pulse. In general terms, it may be said that if a patient looks and feels well she has not septiceemia. The wounds in the vagina and about the vulva are peculiarly liable to infection, and readily assume the condition known as puer- peral ulcers. These are attended by little or no fever, and the patient seldom complains; but ischuria or smarting when passing water is sometimes present. On inspection one labium is generally swollen, and upon examining its inner surface the ulcer is observed; its base covered with a white or greyish yellow slough, its margins red and swollen, and the discharge thin and irritating, causing excoriation of the surface over which it flows. Endometritis may be either putrid or septic. In the putrid form the process may be general, or limited to certain areas, especially the placental site. The uterine wall rapidly pro- liferates a barrier of granulation tissue, which protects the deeper structures from invasion, and secures the separation of the diseased tissue. In septic infection this barrier is im- perfect, or absent, and the micro-organisms in- vade the muscular tissue, the uterine wall becoming soft and swollen, and the disease spreads along the lymphatics to the cellular tissue and peritoneum. Putrid endometritis is recognised by the character of the lochia, which may at first be scanty, but soon become profuse and offensive. The uterus feels large, and may be tender, and the after-pains are often abnormally acute. The attendant fever is seldom severe, the temperature seldom exceeding 102° F., or the pulse 110 beats per minute. The patient does not look dangerously ill, and her sleep is un- disturbed. Parametritis and Perimetritis.—These con- ditions are usually ushered in by a rigor, or at least a sense of chilliness, on the second or third day after labour. In parametritis the temperature rises rapidly ; in perimetritis more gradually, and the pulse follows the rise of temperature, the after-pains are exquisitely painful, and the uterus becomes tender; at first to one side, but subsequently the tender- ness extends over the entire hypogastrium. The duration of the fever varies from days to weeks, but from eight to ten days is about the average. Peritonitis and cellulitis are usually met with in combination, but it is of importance to determine which tissue is the more involved in a given case, and still more so to determine whether the condition is a local one or part of a systemic infection. In pelvic cellulitis the temperature rises rapidly, often to 104° F. ; the pulse, following more slowly, reaches 100 or 110 beats on the following day; the constitutional disturbance is slight. On bimanual examination a swelling is felt to one side of the uterus, at first diffuse, but becoming harder and more defined; the uterus is pushed towards the opposite side of the pelvis, and as the swelling advances it involves and fixes the cervix; it extends out- ward to the pelvic walls and iliac fossfe, or backward along the folds of Douglas. Some- times it extends along the anterior aspect of