140 PLEURA, DISEASES OF be resorted to in these cases, and it is important that the trochar should be inserted at a point where the signs of the presence of fluid are well marked. Otherwise the failure to find fluid may unjustly discredit the diagnosis. Collapse of the lung, acute or chronic, closely simulates pleural eff'usion, but the history of these cases is different from that of pleurisy, the side is retracted, the intercostal spaces are not flattened, and the heart is not displaced towards the sound side. Attention to these points may be sufficient to prevent en-or, but if necessary puncture should be resorted to. The possibility of subphrenic abscess should be borne in mind in cases which suggest pleurisy, but present abnormal physical signs (see under "Subphrenic Abscess," vol. ii. p. 343 et seq.). The general question of the relation of pleurisy and tuberculosis may be here con- veniently considered. The pathological aspect of the subject has been already dealt with. It remains to consider its clinical bearings. Vincent Bowditch of Boston found that of 91 cases of pleurisy occurring in the practice of his father, Henry J. Bowditch, between the years 1849 and 1879, 32 died of phthisis, or were certainly tuberculous. Fiedler found that of 92 cases of pleurisy with sero-fibrinous exudation, 28 cases were dead of pulmonary tuberculosis within two years, while in many of the remaining cases the presence of tuberculosis was suspected or probable. Barrs of Leeds found that of 62 cases of acute pleurisy occurring at the Leeds Infirmary 22 were dead of phthisis within six years. After an ex- haustive treatment of the whole subject, Kingston Fowler concludes that " the bacillus of tubercle is the causative agent in a very large proportion of cases of sero - fibrinous pleurisy, and that this is true when the attack is apparently simple, idiopathic, and attributed to a chill." The same writer further points out: "It must be borne in mind that the course of tuberculosis of the serous membranes is far more favourable than when the disease attacks the lungs and other organs. Of this the clinical history of tubercvilous peritonitis affords a striking example. The inference that in many cases of tubercular pleurisy the disease is arrested at the time and never reappears is therefore justified, and is supported by patho- logical experience." We have seen that Germain See regarded all cases of acute pleurisy as tubercular, and that Landouzy from the side of pathology takes practically the same view. While there is no longer any doubt that the association of pleurisy and tuberculosis is much more intimate than was formerly suspected, there are some considerations which must make us pause before accepting the extreme view on this subject which is now current, especially in France. The onset in pleurisy is sudden in about one-half the total cases. In tuber- culosis a sudden onset is the rare exception. Pleurisy following a definite chill, though much less common than was formerly thought, is nevertheless somewhat frequent. Chill does not produce tuberculosis. The incidence of pleurisy and tuberculosis with regard to age and sex shows some points of apparent contrast, but the subject requires further elucidation. Pleurisy most often appears to begin in the lower antero-lateral region of the chest—i.e. in that part of the side least protected by muscle—and shows none of the preference for the apical region which is so marked in pulmonary tuberculosis. The course of the temperature in pleurisy is unlike that of tubei'culosis. The general progress of the disease in pleurisy and the early and favour- able convalescence of the large majority of cases are unlike tuberculosis. It will be ad- mitted that the clinical course of acute pleurisy bears only a distant resemblance to {e.g.) that of tubercular peritonitis. While these points must be borne in mind before we can formulate a definite conclusion on this most important and difficult subject, probably most physicians will agree with Osier when he says : " I confess that the more carefully I have studied the question the larger does the proportion appear to be of primary pleurisies of tuberculous origin." It has been seen that the bacillus tuberculosis is very rarely present in serous effusions, and the theory that all "sterile" effusions are tubercular is still only an hypo- thesis. Much will depend upon the results of further inoculation experiments. If it can be conclusively proved that inoculation with serous pleuritic fluid produces tuberculosis in a large and fairly constant proportion of cases the conclusion to be drawn will be obvious. It should not be forgotten that the fact of a patient who has recovered from an acute pleurisy subsequently developing tuberculosis does not prove that the pleurisy was tuberculous. At the most it only raises a presumption that such may have been the case. But it is at least arguable that in some of these cases— perhaps a considerable proportion — a non- tuberculous pleurisy, not thoroughly recovered from, may have weakened the resisting power of the lung, and so rendered it more susceptible to invasion by the bacillus of tubercle. Such a sequence of events is entirely consonant with our present knowledge of the causation of pulmonary tuberculosis. If pleurisy occur in a patient whose general health is from any cause debilitated, or whose history suggests the probability of antecedent pulmonary mischief, the suspicion of tuber- culosis will be much strengthened. In such cases the sputum, if obtainable, should of course be examined with special care. Prognosis.—The mortality during the acute