324 PROSTHESIS Prosthesis.—The correction of defects in development or the results of injury by artificial means; literally, " replacing." See Mouth, Injuries and Diseases of the Jaw {Operations on the Jaws, Immediate Prosthesis). Prostitutes. See Lunacy {Inveterate Prostitute). Protagon.—A glucoside (CmoHgogNj POgj?) found in nerve tissue, especially in the white sheath, and yielding stearic acid. See Physiology, Tissues [Nerve, Chemistry). Protamine.—An organic base (CjgHj.^ N9O.2) found in semen, e.g. in the heads of spermatozoa, where it is linked with nucleic acid. See Physiology, Protoplasm {Products of Decomposition). Protarg'Oi. — A protein compound of silver, forming a yellow powder soluble in water, and containing 8 per cent of silver; it is used in ophthalmia neonatorum and in gonor- rhoea. See Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Ophthal- mia Neonato7-um, Treatment). Protean. — Taking many forms; e.g., syphilis is a protean disease. The term is derived from the sea-god Proteus, who was said to have the power of assuming different shapes. Proteates. See Physiology, Proto- plasm {Conjugated Proteins); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Gastric Digestion, Proteolytic Period). ProteidS.—The "chief substances" (Gr. irpwros, first) of animal and vegetable tissues, containing carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, sulphur, oxygen, and some inorganic salts; examples are found in albumen, globulin, casein, peptone, etc.; their chemical composition is very complex; albuminoids, proteins. See Diet {Nutritive Constituents, Organic); Digestion and Metabolism {Absorption of Proteids); Liver, Physiology of {Functions, Proteids); Physiology, Protoplasm {Chemistry, Proteins); Physiology, Blood and Lymph {Chemistry of Blood); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Gastric Digestion, Proteolytic Period); Physi- ology, General Metabolism {Protein Meta- bolism). Proteins. See Proteids and Cross References. Protene. See Diet {Milh and its Pro- ducts, Caseinogen); Invalid Feeding {Milk, " Protene "). Proteolytic.—Causing proteolysis {i.e. the conversion of proteids or proteins into diffusible substances such as peptone by the action of ferments called proteolytic ferments). See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Gastric Digestion, Proteolytic Period). Proteoses.—Bodies intermediate between proteins and peptones; e.g. heteroproteose, deuteroproteose. See Physiology, Protoplasm {Classification of Proteins); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Gastric Digestion, Proteolytic Period). ProteOSOma. See Malaria {History); Parasites {Protozoa, Hcemosjwridia). ProteOSUria.—The presence of proteoses in the urine. Proteus. See Micro-Organisms {Bacteria, Proteus). Prothrombin. See Physiology, Blood AND Lymph {Coagulation, Enzymes). ProtO-.—In compound words proto- (Gr. TrpoiTos, foremost) means first or primitive; e.g. a jwotoblast is a cell without a cell wall, and a prototype is an original type. In Chemistry proto- is a prefix indicating the lowest of a series of compounds; e.g. a protochloride is that one which contains the smallest relative amount of chloride. Proto pat hie.—Idiopathic, as opposed to deuteropathic. See Physiology, Neuro- muscular Mechanism {Thermal Sense, Proto- pathic Sensibility); Sensation {Head's Experi- ments). Protoplasm.—See Physiology, Proto- plasm. Protoproteoses. See Proteoses and Ci'oss References. Prototypes. See Tumours {Oncology, Law of Prototyptes). Proto vert e brae.— The primitive segments of the embryo. See Embryology. Protozoa. See Parasites {Protozoa); Herpes {Herpes Zoster, Pathology); Micro- Organisms {Protozoa). Protracted Labour. See Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged. Protuberance or Protuber- antia.—A projection or prominence, e.g. the occipiital protuberance and the p>rotuberantia laryngea. " Proud Flesh."—Exuberant granula- tion tissue such as is seen in the weak condition of an ulcer. See Ulcers and Ulceration (C lassification). Proust-Liehtheim Test. See Aphasia {Clinical Features, Cortical Aphasia). Proximate Principles.— The sub- stances in food which are of the same nature as the materials found on the analysis of dead protoplasm. See Physiology, Food and Dices-