123 PLAGUE value, and though present in convalescence it cannot be regarded as of any diagnostic help. It has, however, been employed to test suspicious bacilli. (3) Differential Diagnosis.—This may best be considered under the headings of diseases with and without glandular swellings. {a) Diseases with Glandular Swellings.—Re- sults of strains and injuries are frequent reasons advanced, especially among native races. In ordinary cases of plague the severe nature of the attack points to some acute fever. Milder cases may present more difficulty, but when in doubt the gland should be punctured and the fluid bacteriologically examined. Although the patient may be able to point to a wound on a limb as a cause of his inflamed gland, it must be remembered that the infection of plague may have entered through this wound. In plague the patient feels very ill before the bubo appears. Diphtheria and tonsillitis with cervical swel- lings have been confused with plague, from omitting to carefully examine the condition of the throat. Such examination should always be carried out in cases with swellings in the neck. Syphilis, gonorrhoea, and sores on the penis may be the cause of the bubo, but examination of the patient clears up the diagnosis. Plague may, however, occur together with these dis- eases. The hardness of the glands and absence of tenderness in syphilis, and the fever and severe constitutional symptoms in plague, dis- tinguish these diseases. A sore under the prepuce may cause inflamed glands in the groin. Chronic tubeixular glands may be mistaken for plague, but the history, if reliable, is suffi- cient to distinguish such cases. Mumps may cause difficulty in diagnosis, but in mumps the bilateral swelling, the metastatic inflammation of the testicle, which, however, occurs late in the disease, the comparatively trivial nature of the disease in children, and the low temperature, and in plague the exquisite tenderness of the gland, the severe nature of the disease, and other symptoms already de- scribed, should be sufficient to distinguish them. In plague the parotid gland is not commonly involved, and when it is, the disease is generally very severe, and there is very considerable in- filtration of the surrounding tissues. Double parotitis in plague is rare. Cases of mumps do, however, occur with intense prostration and delirium, and mild cases of plague with enlarge- ment in the parotid region. These cases cause difficulty, and recourse would have to be had to the diagnostic puncture. Filarious lymphangitis has been mistaken for plague, but an examination of the blood for filaria would clear up the diagnosis. Veldt sores and tic bites may cause inflam- mation of lymphatic glands. The condition of the patient distinguishes such cases. Pestis minor has been referred to (p. 118). Neuralgic pains in the groins are not un- common among those engaged on plague work. They seem to be usually neurotic, but cause considerable anxiety. (b) Diseases without Glandular Stoellings.— Puerperal fever may be diagnosed instead of plague septicaemia. In plague, the fever comes on before delivery or abortion, and is almost invariably fatal. The absolute diagnosis of plague rests upon the bacteriological examina- tion of the blood. Septiccemia and pycemia can only be diffier- entiated from plague by bacteriological ex- amination. Smallpox may be confused with plague until the rash comes out. Influenza, septicsemic and pneumonic plague may present great difficulty in diagnosis ; the character of the pneumonia and nervous symptoms are similar in each. Examination of the blood and sputum is necessary. Cerebro-spinal meningitis and plague both show meningeal symptoms, but in plague re- traction of the head is not common. Meningitis may supervene in plague. Malaria may be confused with plague. The character of the tongue is different; examina- tion of the blood and the treatment clear up the diagnosis. Typhoid fever may be diagnosed by Widal's reaction, the spots, and other characters of the disease. In doubtful cases bacteriological ex- amination of the blood should be employed. The onset is insidious in typhoid and sudden in plague. In plague the temperature rises suddenly. Typhus, dengue, and relapsing fever should be differentiated from plague by examination of the blood, together with the signs of these diseases. Lobar pneumonia may simulate plague pneu- monia, but a bacteriological examination of the sputum and the characteristics of these diseases indicate the diagnosis. 8. Prognosis Plague is a very fatal disease, the case mortality among European patients treated in hospital being about 35 per cent, and much higher among native races. The prognosis depends on (1) the period of the oiUbreah. Cases are milder at the beginning and end of an epidemic, but not invariably. (2) On the type of the disease. Pneumonic and septicsemic cases are generally fatal. (3) On the age of the patient; unfavourable in the very young and the aged. (4) On the site of the bubo. Cervical lesions are most fatal; this type is frequent in childi'en. (5) The race of the patient has an influence. Most of the Asiatic races show a lack of resistance to the