395 PULSE, THE wave, but smaller—the post-dicrotic wave (Fig. 11). At A the down-stroke ends; and, according to some, that portion between g and h indicates anticipation of the ven- The lowest point of the the period of rest in tricular contraction. FlO. 11.—Radial sphygmogram showing the post-dicrotic wave tracing has been called the base line by Landois, and the respiratory line by Mahomed. Its level may vary with the movements of respira- tion, particularly when there is great dyspnoea. While all observers are agreed upon the main features of the sphygmographic tracing as above indicated, much difference of opinion still exists as to the mode of production of the various events, and as to their individual variations. We may shortly review some of the interpreta- tions put upon the pulse-curve. The up-stroke of the needle means a rise of arterial pressure, and it is commonly called the percussion stroke, because it is usually produced by the shock received by the blood column on the sudden bursting open of the aortic valves, which is transmitted almost instantaneously throughout the whole arterial system. Then with the commencement of the down-stroke a fall in blood pressure is indicated, and a rounded or pointed wave (a, 6, c) is formed. This portion of the tracing is called the percussion tvave by some, and includes the so-called percusssion stroke. The next feature is the tidal or pre- dicrotic ivave {d). Some writers explain it in this way: when the pressure in the artery begins to fall, the decline of the needle is delayed by a brief period of maintained expan- sion, which may amount to an actual wave of renewed expansion. This elevation is much more marked in tracings made from the carotid and brachial ai'teries, i.e. nearer the heart. The instrument exaggerates this feature of the sphygmogram. The next event, however, the dicrotic tvave (/), corresponds to a true secondary wave of increased blood pressure in the arterial system. The dicrotic notch (e) marks very precisely the time of closure of the aortic valves. After these general statements it is necessary to discuss some of the features of the pulse- curve more particularly. It may be said at once that much confusion has arisen from the use of the terms "percussion wave" and "tidal wave " in describing the sphygmogram. It is admitted by all that these two waves occur during the systolic contraction of the ventricle, and that the other waves occur during the diastole. Yet the percussion wave is usually regarded as a distinct event in the pulse-curve, which should be entirely separated from the tidal wave except under certain conditions where the two waves are blended to form a single summit to the tracing. Mahomed re- garded the systolic portion of the pulse- curve as composed of two factors, i.e. the percussion and the tidal waves. The per- cussion wave he described as the sudden primary expansion of the artery due to the shock of systole on the aortic con- tents ; the tidal wave he supposed to be due to the more gradual distension of the artery. Burdon Sanderson says: "As a rule, the sensibility of the finger is most affected at the moment the artery attains its acme of tension, e.g. at the height of the tidal wave, but in low-tension pulses the same cause which jerks up the lever of the sphygmograph (percussion stroke) communicates the first sensation to the finger." It will be instructive to quote the following passage, from the writings of Mahomed, bearing on the significance of the tidal wave. He said : " The simplest pulsatile movement that can be conceived in an elastic tube is the mere passage of a wave of fluid through it, causing more or less sudden expan- sion and a gradual collapse of the tube, as it passes through it; such a wave is the founda- tion of the pulse, and has been called the ' tidal' wave. If the impulse imparted to the fluid is more sudden, an element of percussion or shock will be introduced, giving an abrupt and vertical up-stroke, from the jerking up of the lever by the sudden expansion of the artery. Owing to its acquired velocity, this movement of the lever is rather greater than the corresponding move- ment in the arterial wall which produced it, and on reaching its highest point it falls suddenly by its own weight, till it is again caught and perhaps slightly raised by the tidal wave, which is now only reaching its maximum of disten- sion. . . . The tidal wave is the true pulse- wave, and indicates the passage of a volume of blood through the arteries, pumped into them by each contraction of the heart. It resembles the passage of the tidal wave or ' bore' up a river; hence its name. It is transmitted more slowly than the percussion wave, or rather attains its maximum intensity more gradually ; hence their separation in the tracing. Though they usually commence to distend the artery together, the percussion wave necessarily attains its maximum intensity instantaneously, it being only a shock, while the tidal wave does so more gradually. Sometimes a considerable interval elapses between them. Frequently they are inseparable, the percussion wave not existing or else being merged into the tidal." Although Mahomed here makes use of the terms " percussion" and " tidal " waves, still he appreciates the important fact that the