56 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES —peas, beans, and lentils—are valuable con- stituents of the diet, being specially rich in proteins. In the dry state they contain some- thing over 20 per cent of proteins and about 50 per cent of carbohydrates. The Soy bean of Japan contains no less than 34 per cent of proteins and 17 per cent of fats, with 34 per cent of carbohydrates. The proteins are a mixture of albvimins and globulins which have been classified together as legumin. The fats are generally small in amount, and the carbohydrates, though abundant, are less so than in the cereals. III. Bulbous Plants.—The underground stems of certain plants develop tuberous growths in which material for the nourishment of the plant is stored. These plants belong to dififerent natural orders, but they may here be classified together. The most commonly employed are potatoes, turnips, and carrots. The amount of proteins is small, something under 2 per cent, while the carbohydrates in the potato reach 20 per cent, but in other tubers only about 10 per cent. Such tubers are chiefly valuable as a source of carbohydrates—though they also contain a small proportion of proteins. IV. Green Vegetables.—Cabbage, cauliflower, spinach, lettuce, etc., are useful additions to the diet, but their value as a source of the proximate principle of the food is not great on account of the amount of water they contain. They are rich in the potash salts of the organic acids, the importance of which has already been discussed (p. 52). The cellulose forming the walls of the cells in the young and gi-owing part of the leaves seems to be capable of partial digestion in the human intestine. V. Fungi.—Mushrooms and other such fungi do not constitute a sufhciently important part of the diet to require attention. VI. Fruits. — These vary considerably in composition. Most are rich in water and carbohydrates, poor in proteins, and contain practically no fat. Their great value lies in the amount of free and combined organic acids they contain. Bananas, which contain about 23 per cent of soluble carbohydrates, may be considered as a food of some importance, while dried fruits, especially dates and figs, which contain between 4 and 5 per cent of proteins and about 65 per cent of carbohydrates, are of considerable nutritive value. VII. Nuts.—These, unlike the fruits, ai-e for the most part poor in water and carbohydrates, but rich in proteins and fats. Chestnuts, how- ever, contain an abundance of carbohydrates, and a smaller proportion of proteins and fats. Cooking.—Few of these food-stuffs are used by civilised man in a raw and unprepared condition. With the object of rendering them more palatable and more easily digested, and also in order to destroy bacteria, they are usually cooked. This process of cooking pro- duces important changes in many of the foods, and its effects must be briefly considered. Milk and its products are practically unaltered by cooking. Flesh is cooked either by exposing it directly to heat or by treating it with boiling water. Roasting, grilling, broiling, and frying are modifications of the former method, and in all of them the heat at once coagulates the proteins at the outer part of the piece of flesh, and thus forms a more or less impermeable covering, which prevents the escape of the juices of the meat. Hence these methods of cooking, although bringing about a burning of the outer layer of the flesh, leave all the con- stituents in only slightly altered proportions. On the other hand, if a piece of flesh be put into cold water and boiled, the proteins, the salts, and the various extractive bodies which give it its flavour are extracted, and, as the water warms, the fats also are dissolved out, and the meat becomes poorer in these con- stituents, while the surrounding water becomes a soup. In this soup the dissolved proteins precipitate as the temperature rises, and when the soup is cooled they rise to the top with the fats, and are generally removed as a scum. Hence soups are poor in the proximate principles of food, but rich in the extractives and salts of meat. If, however, the piece of meat to be cooked is plunged into a large quantity of boiling water, the proteins at its outer part at once coagulate and form a covering which prevents the loss of the nutrient material which occurs when the meat is slowly boiled. Stewing is a modification of boiling by which much of the nutrient material of meat is ex- tracted, but this is served as a gravy. It is in vegetables, however, that cooking is of the greatest importance, since by it the cellulose envelopes which enclose the digestible portions of the plant are ruptured. //. Digestion I. Structure of Alimentary Canal.—The anatomy and histology of the alimentary tract must be studied practically. A mere outline of the various structures such as will assist in the comprehension of their physiology is given here. The Alimentary Canal (Fig. 157) may be divided into the mouth, the oesophagus or gullet, the stomach, the small and large intestines, and three sets of supplementary structures—the salivary glands, the liver, and the pancreas. The mouth, provided with its teeth, and surrounded by its mobile muscular wall, with the muscular tongue lying in its floor, is the part of the canal in which the food is broken up and prepared for digestion. Into the mouth