239 PREGNANCY, MANAGEMENT OF stomach. " Longings," so far as they are kept within reasonable desires, can, of course, be gratified; but no evidence is obtainable that the refusal to satisfy unreasonable caprices has any influence mentally or physically on the child. Strong alcoholic and malted drinks are unadvisable, but there is no reason to prohibit a little light wme at dinner and lunch, if such has been the habit of the patient previously. That the diet must directly influence the growth and development of the foetus in utero is reasonably clear. Recent scientific experiments seem to show that possibly at no very distant date we may learn in what manner the growth and development of the bones of the foetus and the tissues of the mother may be favourably modified by a special dietary, so that labour may be shortened and made more easy for the mother, and less dangerous to the child. Indeed there are indications that diet may so influence the maternal and foetal tissues, so as to lead to the birth of a viable child in cases where the previous obstetric history indicated the improb- ability of this ever taking place. Two suggestive cases have come imder the writer's notice. The first was a multipara who had had several confinements, some of them premature, but never a living child, owing to the size of the pelvis. When I saw her she was on a vegetarian diet. Tlie labour came on prematurely at the eighth month, and she was easily delivered of a healthy infant which lived. The second case was a primigravida, set. about twenty-six, a very small woman, who was a rigid vegetarian (from conviction); she was in the second stage of labour before feeling any- thing, and the infant was born very rapidly, certainly an exceedingly easy labour for a primipara of her age. It is, of course, possible, but I think unlikely, that these were merely coincidences. It is probable that the diet which will ulti- mately be found to exert a beneficial influence in this direction will be one in which the carbohydrates and fats enter most largely. If space allowed, many facts could be cited from comparative obstetrics, and also from the ob- stetric histories of diff"erent races, in favour of this view. With our present knowledge it is sufficient to suggest that this line of investiga- tion should be studied carefully from the clinical side no less than from the standpoint of ex- perimental laboratory observation. The Regular Evacuation of the Bowels is very important; during pregnancy there is always a tendency to more or less constipation. This difficulty is best got over by giving a liberal supply of fruit. If medicine is neces- sary, some of the mild vegetable purgatives are to be recommended, cascara sagrada, liquorice powder, or tamar indica lozenges. The con- stant iise of mineral waters tends to aggravate haemorrhoids, which are often very troublesome, and strong cathartics are not safe as they may be the cause of a miscarriage. Castor-oil is a safe but to most people a very disagreeable remedy. Attention to this point is probably the most important factor in the prevention of many of the minor and even major manifesta- tions of toxfemia in pregnancy. During the early months comjalaints of in- ability to pass water, or constant desire to mic- turate, should put the practitioner on his guard for cases of retroversion. The urine should be examined from time to time, especially in the later months, and more particularly in primi- parte. If albumen be detected, special pre- cautions must be adopted (see " Pregnancy, Pathology of"). The skiyi requires special care. It should be kept in good condition by frequent bathing. When acting properly it is able to relieve the kidneys of a portion of the extra strain thrown on them. Women who are in the habit of taking a daily cold bath should continue to do so, and should take in addition a warm bath once a week (90째-96째 F.); those who are not accustomed to the daily bath should have a tepid bath twice a week (77째-90째 F.). During the last six weeks the warm baths may be taken three or four times a week; this is specially good for primigravidse. The increased vaginal secretion renders it important for the external genitals to be fre- quently cleansed. These can be washed morn- ing and night with tepid water and a good lather of soap, a little spirit and water rubbed in afterwards; an advantage, as it prevents any heavy odour. If the vaginal discharge becomes irritating, either causing pruritus or excoriations, the vaginal douche may be used. The quantity injected should not exceed a pint of water, should be injected very slowly, and only lukewarm water used. Chafing under the breasts and groin can be got rid of with wash- ing twice daily with vinegar and water, drying carefully, and dusting on boracic acid. The breasts should be kept warm and sup- ported without any undue pressure upon them. The nipples and areola during the last two months should be hardened by regular washing with water and alcohol. The methods of bring- ing forward depressed nipples, such as pressing back the areola with elastic rings or a nipple shield, or pulling forward the nipple, usually give a good deal of pain, and it is doubtful if they do any good. Sexvial excess in young women is often the cause of early abortions, and abstinence is advisable. Pregnancy, Pathology of, Alfactions of Ovum and Decidua . .240 Diseases of Placenta and Cord . . 248 Intra-Uterine Diseases and Death of Fcetus 254