382 PUERPERIUM, PATHOLOGY OF the same appearances as the primary disease; but Pick and Schmorl have shown that metas- tatic growths are not always malignant, and also that there have been cases in which typical chorio-epitheliomatous growths have been found in the vagina, kings, liver, and other places, causing the death of the patient, and yet no primary uterine growths could be discovered (Schmorl, Schlagenhaufer, Schmidt). Metastases in connection with such a malig- nant disease of the uterus are easily understood, but the occurrence of chorio-epitheliomatous growths in the vagina and elsewhere with a healthy uterus is not so readily explained. Schmorl, Kossman, and J. Nusmann supposed that there must have been a primary malignant disease of the ovum which caused metastases, and was subsequently expelled without infecting the uterus; but Pick and Gottschalk considered this most unlikely, and thought that more probably the metastases were originally of a benign nature, but afterwards underwent malig- nant degeneration. Schmidt considers that this hypothesis is borne out by the length of time that intervened between delivery and the appear- ance of the vaginal growths, viz., in Schmorl's case, eighteen weeks after delivery at term—in Schlagenhaufer's, nine months after an incom- plete abortion—and in his own case, three months after expulsion of a hydatidiform mole. Diagnosis. — An early diagnosis is of vital importance, and fortunately it is not difficult provided careful clinical and microscopic atten- tion be devoted to it. When hfemorrhage occurs after an abortion or molar pregnancy the uterus should always be thoroughly evacuated by the finger and curette, so that one can be certain that everything has been removed and a smooth surface left. If after this haemorrhage recurs, and a second evacuation reveals a quantity of soft friable tissue, the case is certainly not one of simple abortion, and is in all probability one of deciduoma; one must, however, be certain that the first curetting was thorough and complete. The size and shape of the uterus varies, but is never below the normal, and enlargement of the organ after discharge of the ovum is of much diagnostic value. The os is often sufficiently open to admit the finger, but may require arti- ficial dilatation. Soft masses of friable material resembling placenta are then discovered, and portions removed by the curette should always be submitted to microscopic examination. Treatment. — Total extirpation is the only method of treatment which has hitherto yielded any benefit, and it is of the utmost importance that this operation should be performed at the earliest possible time, before the patient has become exhausted by hfemorrhage, and before putrefaction sets in or metastases have occurred. It must not, however, be regarded as hopeless, even under such unfavourable conditions, for cases have been reported by Chrobak and Von Franke, where, in spite of evidences of pulmonary embolima, as shown by bloody expectoration and other symptoms, recovery has followed operation. Ltinnberg-Mannheimer saw numer- ous metastases in the cervix, introitus vaginte, and vagina, yet the patient had no return for eighteen months after operation. Cazin found a metatasis in the ovary; three years after the operation she was well. Schauta extirpated a metastatic growth from the vagina along with the uterus; at the time of publication there had been no return. Schlagenhaufer and Schmidt have reported cures after the extirpation of vaginal growths only—the healthy uterus being left. Histogenesis.—According to most observers, this disease is always connected with and is prob- ably due to pregnancy. The only dissentients from this view were Drs. Eden and Kanthack, who stated at the meeting of the London Obstet- rical Society, in the discussion on Dr. Herbert Spencer's case, that the microscopic appearances were in no way peculiar, but similar to those found in sarcomata in other places, and that in some of the cases pregnancy was doubtful. In the discussion which followed Dr. Haultain's communication to the British Gynsecological Society, however. Dr. Eden stated that he was personally in full agreement with the views of J. Veit in the Handbuch der Gynaekologie, that the disease was a sarcoma modified by the occurrence of pregnancy. We may therefore assume as generally accepted that the disease is in some way due to pregnancy. In order to understand the conflicting views as to its origin we must briefly recall the normal con- dition of the tissues which it affects. The placental villi consist of a stroma covered by two layers of epithelium : an inner called Lang- hans' layer, composed of individual cells with a distinct cell wall, and an outer formed of protoplasmic masses without any line of demar- cation, termed the syncytium. These villi penetrate the decidua serotina and maternal blood-vessels forming the placenta. Now the disease which we are considering has been supposed by different observers to originate from each of these structures, and hence the varying nomenclatui'e. Thus Sanger believes that it originated in the decidua, and he gave it at first the name of deciduoma malignum, but subsequently he preferred to call it sarcoma-deciduo-cellulare, because he believed that it originated in the cellular layer of that membrane after it had been altered by pregnancy. Gottschalk believed that it origin- ated in a case described by him in the stroma of the villi. Marchand, Gebhard, and Haultain attributed its origin to the epithelium covering the villi, and Whitridge Williams to the outer layer or syncytium only, and termed it carci- noma syncytiale, chorion epithelioma, or blas- toma-deciduo-chorion-cellulare.