94 PHYSIOLOGY—APPENDIX : ORGANIC CHEMISTRY Cyclic Compounds An important series of carbon compounds contains a ring of six carbons, each with an unsatisfied affinity, thus :— I C —c c— —c c— c When each hand holds a hydrogen, Benzene is formed. These hydrogens may be replaced by various molecules giving rise to a large series of different compounds. If the ring contain less than six carbon atoms it is called heterocyclic. One of the most important of these is Pyrrhol— C—C II II C C \/ N H which occurs linked to a benzene ring in certain important constituents of the protein molecule. Nitrogen-containing Compounds Ammonia. — The three-handed nitrogen by linking with three hydrogens forms ammonia, H I H—N—H If one of these hydrogens is removed, amidogen, which can link with other molecules, is pro- duced. Amino Acids.—If one of the hydrogen atoms in the radical of an acid is replaced by amidogen a mon-amino acid is formed, thus : — H 0 H )>N—C—C—0—H Amino Acetic Acid. H/ I H When two hydrogen atoms are thus replaced, a di-amino acid is produced— NH2 NH2 0 _Q jj Di-amino Propionic Acid. H—C — C - I I H H Amides.—If the amidogen molecule takes the place of the hydroxyl in the carboxyl of an acid an amide results, thus :— 0 II H—C—0—H 0 H—C—N H Foramic Acid. Formamide. H From the divalent carbonic acid— 0 is formed— H H—0—C—0—H 0 II N—C—N< H the important substance urea. Urea molecules may link together— (a) By dropping hydrogens, when biuret is produced— H H 0 H N—C—N-i H 0 -N—C—N. H H (h) By holding on to an intermediate radical of an acid, e.g. an unsaturated three carbon acid. These are diureides, of which the most important is uric acid— 0 H—N- I 0 = C H—N- -C- -N-H >C = 0 -N^H Physiotherapy.—The treatment of disease by physical means, such as exercise, massage, gymnastics, vibration, etc.; mechano- therapy. PhySO-i — In compound words physo- (Gr. ^Co-a, a bladder or bubble) means bladder- like or related to air or wind; e.g. physocele (a tumour or a hernia distended with gas), physodin (a neutral substance, with the formula Ci2Hj20g, behaving like a resin, and occurring in the lichen Parmelia physodes). Physometrci.—Distension of the uterus with gas, usually as the result of the decomposi- tion of the contents of the uterus {e.g. placenta, dead foetus). PhysostigrmatisSemina. See also Ai.KAhOws {Fhysosfigmina); Eserine; Glaucoma {Treatment, Myotics); Pharmacology {Physo- stigmine); Physiology (Vision, Accommodation); Toxicology {Alkaloids).—The ripe seeds of the