PSORIASIS 336 Whether the ei'iiption is removed by time or by treatment, recurrence is the rule, to which there are but few exceptions. And whilst in some patients the interval of freedom is only a matter of weeks or months, a few go for years without a fresh attack. The eruption leaves behind it a redness or slight staining at the site of eruption, but in some, especially when treated with arsenic, the pigmentation is marked and persistent. The converse, how- ever, may occur; transitory achromia is often left after treatment by chrysarobin, but in rare cases it occurs persistently without apparent cause, and even scarring may be produced with slightly increased pigmentation round the patch. Even when the eruption is very extensive the general health is unaffected by the skin lesions, but their condition is often influenced by the general health of the patient, deteriora- tion in which may determine an outbreak or aggravate an attack. Acutely inflammatory cases present a totally different picture from the subacute, more typical form previously described. While the extensor aspect of the limbs is still the most frequent position for it to start from, it is much more indiscriminate in its origin and distribution (in one case under the author it always began on the palms and soles), large areas are speedily involved, and the bordei's are much less defined than in the familiar discs; the ground colour is an intensely bright red, and the scales are not in glistening adherent crusts, but in flaky scales which shell oft" readily and frequently in large quantities, the general aspect approaching that of pityriasis rubra, into which it sometimes merges and then runs the course of that disease. Limited areas with these characters may be seen sometimes in elderly persons, and even have a somewhat eczematous character though the patch is generally dry, and the condition Devergie called P. eczemateux is produced. On the palms and soles, it is seldom seen without being present extensively elsewhere. It usually shows itself by thickening of the horny layer in small patches, and when this splits off it leaves whitish spots with a worm- eaten appearance. It is sometimes seen in scaly patches which may be heaped up con- siderably, but has not the lamellar aspect of the disease in other parts. In a few instances the disease has been limited to the hands, including the palms, for many years. The term palmar psoriasis is sometimes misapplied to dry palmar eczema and a secondary scaly syphilide of the palm. Sweat-diLct paoriasis is generally unrecognised. The lesions are only one-eighth of an inch in diameter, but may cover a great part of the trunk or limbs. Although acuminate papules at first, they soon flatten out into slightly scaly spots. Follicular Psoriasis.—In this the primary papule is at the hair follicle and remains attached to it. The papules may be only millet-seed to hemp-seed sized, with a scaly top, or rather larger and not so convex. The eruption enlarges at the margin very little, if at all, so that the original character is pre- served. The hair growth is unaffected in most cases of the usual type, although the eruption may be very thick upon the scalp ; but in the acutely inflammatory cases the hair is shed profusely, even to complete denudation of the affected area. The nails are frequently affected both in acute and chronic cases. The most common and characteristic change begins on one side at the distal end, where it is of a dirty yellow colour, thickened and separated from its at- tachments ; this may extend all the way down, or the whole nail may be discoloured, pitted, furrowed, transversely thickened, and raised up from its bed by proliferated horny scales. The nail changes may commence at the root, distal end, or other part of the nail blade. The mucous membranes are almost exempt in psori- asis, though a few cases are on record affecting the palpebral conjunctivse and the mouth. The so-called psoriasis linguae is a misnomer, and although leucopathia linguae is occasionally seen in psoriatic subjects the conjunction is acci- dental. Among the rarer complications are scarring, keloid, papillary development, either soft or warty, and from this even epithelioma may result. Sometimes the warty and epithelio- matous growths ensue, not directly from the psoriasis, but as the result of excessive arsenical treatment. Etiology.—Sex has probably no influence in predisposing to the eruptions. Statistics vary in their results in different countries. In the author's hospital cases the females were as two to one, and in private, males and females were equal. Age.—In the author's statistics of over 800 cases, 72 per cent begin before thirty years ; the numbers before twelve, between twelve and twenty, and between twenty and thirty, being equal. Twenty-two per cent begin between thirty and fifty, in equal numbers in the two decades, and only 5 per cent over that age ; below five years probably not 1 per cent, and it is very rare under two years, but there are a few recorded in the first year of life, the youngest being thirty-eight days, and this was said to have commenced in the first week of life (Rille). At the other extreme stands Watson's case with the first attack at eighty-five. Heredity. — This is generally considered to play an important part in the production of psoriasis, though Bulkley and Rosenthal said that it could only be proved in 15 per cent of their cases, but it was probably in a much higher percentage. Nielssen disputes heredity