PULSE, THE 416 —have also a marked influence. The soft pulse of low pressure is undoubtedly more susceptible to these altered respiratory movements. Pulses of high pressure are not affected to nearly the same degree. It is certain that the pliysiological dictum that " during inspiration venous pressure falls and arterial pressure rises, and during expiration venous pressure rises and arterial pressure falls," is absolutely inadequate to explain all the variations of different pulses produced by altered respiratory movements in various con- ditions. Tiie whole question is one of extreme complexity, and many different influences are associated together to evolve certain results. Probably the quantity and the quality of the blood circulating in the vessels of the medulla is the proximate determining cause of the chief variations, through the effects thus produced on the vital centres resident there. Effects 2')roduced by Variations in the Quantity of Blood reaching the Medulla.—During inspira- tion blood is drawn away from the brain, as is easily demonstrable by watching the sucking in of an infant's fontanelle or the emptying of a full jugular vein. This means a lowering of the blood pressure in the bulbar vessels, and consequently a definite effect is temporarily produced on the control of the circulation exerted by the vagus and vaso-motor nerves. In the case of the vagus centre, diminished blood-supply means diminished stimulation, and will lead to an inhibition of its influence in maintaining a normal pulse-rate. Thus in healthy individuals we would expect strong inspiratory movements to cause, in the first instance, a quickening of the pulse. This effect is often produced, but not invariably. In the case of the vaso-motor centre, when its usual blood-supply is diminished, stimulation occurs, with the result that its activity soon comes into play in the shape of vaso-constriction and consequent rise of blood pressure. Effects produced by Variations in the Quality of tJie Blood reaching the Medulla.—In the case of the vagus centre, blood deficient in oxygen or otherwise impure will result in sti7nulation, and the pulse will tend to become slow. In the case of the vaso-motor centre, stimula- tion also occurs, with resulting constriction of the smaller arteries throughout the body and a rise of blood pressure. Thus it will be seen that the combined influence of diminished quantity and impaired quality of the blood in the medulla will produce, in the case of the vagus centre opposite effects, and in the case of the vaso-motor centre the same effects. An appreciation of these facts may help to assist one in the interpretation of many sphygmograms obtained in cases of spasmodic asthma, and also in other diseases associated with laboured respiration and alterations in the quality of the blood. The Effects of Afferent Impulses reaching the Vaso-motor Centre—The Depjressor Nerve.—Still other influences have to be remembered in dealing with the whole problem of pulse and respiration in pathological conditions. The afferent impulses reaching the vaso - motor centre are of considerable importance, and under certain circumstances give rise to un- expected results. Impulses coming to the centre through most afferent nerves are followed by a reflex rise of blood pressure when the pulse is of low or of medium pressure. But if the vaso-motor centre is actively maintaining a high pressure in the arteries by constriction of their coats, thus inducing abnormally great distension of the heart and embarrassment of its action, then a special afferent impulse to the vaso-motor centre from the heart itself will act in an opposite way, and produce a fall in the blood pressure and relief to the heart. This is a safety-valve mechanism, and the afferent impulse which brings it into play is conducted through the depressor nerve which depresses the centre, thereby producing dilata- tion of the intestinal vessels by means of the splanchnic nerves. Action of the Depressor Mechanism in Normal and in Pathological Conditions.—This mechan- ism for regulating the blood pressure may be frequently called into action in normal individuals, but it is not certain that it always acts so precisely in diseased conditions. During a severe asthmatic seizure, where there may be marked vaso-constriction, and the heart is struggling against undue resistance, relief may be sometimes partially brought about in this manner, and the relaxation of the vessels leads to the lowering of the arterial pressure. When a long inspiration is taken and the breath held the type of sphygmogram obtained is sometimes suggestive of the same thing—the curves may become larger and more dicrotic during the sustained inspiratory act. The Connection betiveen the Vagus and Respir- atory Irregularities of the Pulse.—A great many of the varieties of respiratory irregularity of the pulse may be explained on the theory already advanced to account for the ordinary type of youthful irregularity. Special emphasis was laid on the fact, that when the pulse temporarily quickened owing to lessened vagus influence, the reaction back to the normal rate was apt to be too extreme. That is to say, the vagus, in regaining its influence, tends to slow down the ventricular beat too much at first, and it does not immediately strike the proper balance with the accelerators. In the ordinary pulse irregularity of the child it is not always the inspiratory act which leads to a temporary diminution of the vagus influence, and therefore a faster pulse. Many other causes operate on the rate of the heart, and some of these may act continuously for a time,