RHEUMATISM IN CHILDREN 555 mortem iu the cardiac valves. Not very infrequently fibrous nodules have been dis- covered in the thickened pericardium when the patient has suffered from rheumatic pericarditis during life. Much less frequently they have been found in the pleura and the fringes of the joints in cases of rheumatic pleurisy or arthritis. Histologically these subcutaneous nodules are found to consist of fibrous tissue with some round or spindle-shaped cells, dilated blood- vessels, and a nearly homologous, more or less tibrillated " ground substance." This homo- geneous substance has been shown to be a fibrinous exudation. These fibrous nodules are then, probably, the result of a local rheu- matic inflammation. The invariable occurrence of other inflammatory manifestations simul- taneously with that of subcutaneous nodules suggests that similar foci of inflammation to those occurring in the subcutaneous tissues may occur in the joints, the endocardium, pericardium, and the pleurse. In these last situations the foci of irritation not only lead to the special form of inflammation attended by nodule formation, but to the ordinary forms of inflammation attended by serous effusion. Thus rheumatic arthritis, pleurisy, endocarditis, and pericarditis may originate in the same process that leads to the formation of sub- cutaneous fibrous nodules. It is their envanes- cent nature, probably, that prevents the more frequent discovery of these fibrous nodules post-mortem, not only in the subcutaneous tissues, but in other parts of the body. As a rule the nodules disappear by a pro- cess of gradual resolution, getting smaller and smaller before their final disappearance. In exceptional instances this process is much hastened, and nodules of considerable size may disappear entirely in the course of a few days. As in the subcutaneous tissue, the nodules in the cardiac valves may disappear, and thus a cure be wrought occasionally in cases of organic cardiac disease. The hope afforded of siich a chance is but a slender one. The shrinking and puckering of the delicate valvular structures secondarily to the inflammation attending the nodular eruption generally remains, however completely the nodules themselves may have resolved. Sometimes, instead of undergoing resolution, the nodules apparently become converted into fatty tissue. Over the point of the elbow it is not very uncommon for nodules to be succeeded by soft masses, like a small collection of fat, which persist long after the nodules elsewhere have disappeared. These apparently fatty tumours are generally about the size of a half hazel-nut, and the slsin over them is often the site of an erythematous blush. Whether these soft masses are really fatty in character is as yet a matter of doubt, and hitherto their presence would seem to have escaped the notice of observers. Occasionally the inflammatory process giving rise to subcutaneous nodules extends to adjacent periosteal structures, and periosteal nodes develop on the underlying bones. These rheumatic nodes have hitherto been only noticed when nodules are present, and generally the bony swelling is surmounted at first by one or more subcutaneous nodules. They usually persist much longer than the sub- cutaneous nodules, but have a tendency to gradually disappear in the course of time. The commonest site for such nodes is the subcutaneous surface of the ulna, and the nodes here generally have their long diameter in the direction of that of the limb. Still larger nodes, up to the size of half a walnut, may appear upon the skull, where the overlying scalp has been the site of subcutaneous nodules ; less frequently than on the ulna and the scalp, rheumatic nodes develop on the surface and edges of the patella. They have been noticed, too, on the subcutaneous surface of the tibia, but are probably much rarer here than in the other mentioned places, from the fact that subcutaneous nodules very seldom occur over the surface of the tibiae. It is quite conceivable, too, that rheumatic periostitis may occasionally arise, in places not amenable to inspection, from a primary form of inflam- mation in the periosteum itself, independently of any direct extension of inflammatioti from adjacent subcutaneous tissues. It is not very uncommon in cases where fibrous nodules are present, especially nodular thickenings in the tendons, for ganglia to develop about the wrists. Such ganglia are doubtlessly due to an inflammation of the sheaths of the ten- dons. Very occasionally several nodules become welded together by inflammatory exudation, and move together as one mass under the adjacent skin. Fibrous nodules are undoubtedly most com- mon in cases where arthritis and other of the more definite signs of rheumatism have been present. They have occasionally been found in cases of chorea and stiff neck, and certain skin eruptions where careful inquiry has totally failed to elicit any history of previous joint affection. Such cases are, however, exceedingly rare, and their number has perhaps been over-estimated by too enthusiastic contenders for the pan- rheumatic origin of chorea. There is no single phase of rheumatism in children in which subcutaneous fibrous nodules have not occasionally been found. They are far most frequent in cases where definite arthritis is present, and Dr. Still found nodules in nearly 50 per cent of cases of articular rheumatism in children. They are next most frequent, perhaps, in cases where joint pains have been a prominent feature, but where the joint affection has not been of sufficient severity to lead to articular swelling or redness. In all cases of unmistak-