5 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES Hsemoglobin is closely allied to the proteins, but differs from them in containing 042 per cent of iron. When light from the sun is allowed to pass through solutions of blood pigments, certain parts of the solar spectrum are absorbed, and when the spectrum is examined dark bands— the absorption bands—are seen. In a weak solution of oxyhsemogiobin a dark band is seen in the green and another in the yellow part of the spectrum between Frauenhofer's lines D and E, while the violet end of the spectrum is absorbed (Fig. 111). These bands may be broadened or narrowed by strengthening or weakening the solution. When the oxygen is taken away and the purple reduced hcemoglobin is formed, a single broad band between D and E takes the place of the two bands (Fig. 111). The property of taking oxygen from the air and of again giving it up at a moderate tempera- ture and under a low pressure of oxygen is the great function of the blood pigment in the body. The hsemoglobin plays the part of a middleman between the air and the tissues, taking oxygen from the one and handing it on to the others. amount of oxygen is the same, but metheemo- globin must be acted on by the strongest re- ducing agents before it will part with its oxygen. When, therefore, this pigment is formed in the body, the tissues die from want of oxygen. It may be produced by the action of various sub- stances on oxyhsemoglobin. Among these are ferricyanides, nitrites, and permanganates. It crystallises in the same form as oxyliEemoglobin, but has a chocolate-brown colour. Its spectrum is also different from hfemoglobin or oxyheemo- globin, showing a narrow sharp band in the red part of the spectrum, with two or more bands in other parts according to the reaction of the solution in which it is dissolved (Fig. 111). It is of importance since it occurs in the urine in some pathological conditions. In all proba- bility the molecule of oxyhsemoglobin has the formula—Hb<^ | , while in methsemoglobin the \o .0 atoms are arranged Hb 0 RED. Yellow. Green. Blue. Carbon-monoxide Hemoglobin Oxyhfemoglobin . Hfcmoglobin. Methaomoglobin Acid Hsematin Reduced Alkaline) Hiematin . .]" Fig. 111.—Spectra of the more important blood pigments and derivatives. (The spectrum of acid hsematin is not identical globin.) Haemoglobin constitutes about 13 or 14 per cent of the blood, but in various diseases its amount is decreased. The best method of esti- mating its amount is by Haldane's Hsemoglobi- nometer. This consists of two tubes of uniform calibre, one filled with a 1 per cent solution of normal blood saturated with CO, and another in which 20 cmm. of blood to be examined, measured in a pipette, is placed in water, mixed ■with coal gas to saturate with CO, and then diluted till it has the same tint as the standard tube. The percentage of hsemoglobin in terms of the normal is indicated by the mark on the tube at which the fluid stands. Metluemoglohiii.—Hsemoglobin forms another compound with oxygen—methsemoglobin. The Hsemoglobin also combines with certain other gases. Among these is carbon monoxide. For this gas hsemo- globin has a greater affinity than for oxygen, so that when carbon monoxide hsemoglobin is once formed in the body, the blood has little power of taking up oxygen, and the animal dies. This gas is evolved freely in the fumes from burning char- coal, is present in coal gas, and is found in the air of coal-mines after explosions. Carbon mon- oxide hsemoglobin forms crys- tals like oxyhsemoglobin, and has a bright ^>M^K.sA-red colour, without the yellow tinge of oxyhsemoglobin. Since after death it does not give up its their more important carbon monoxide and become with that of methismo- changed to purple hsemoglobin, the bodies of those poisoned with the gas maintain the florid colour of life. Its spectrum is very like that of oxyhsemoglobin, the bands being slightly more to the blue end of the spectrum (Fig. 111). It may be at once distinguished by the fact that when gently warmed with ammonium sulphide it does not yield reduced hsemo- globin. Decomposition of Hcemoglohin.—Hsemoglobin is a somewhat unstable body, and, in the presence of acids and alkalies, splits up into about 96 per cent of a colourless protein glohin belonging to the globulin group, and about 4 per cent of a substance of a brownish colour called hcematin. The spectrum and properties of this substance