RHEUMATISM—RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS 572 Fresh air is of benefit to these patients. They should live in a climate where outdoor life, without exposure to cold and damp, is possible. A dry soil, a high average of sun- shine, slight daily variation of temperature, and a moderate elevation, are the most suitable climatic conditions. Winter in a warmer and more equable climate than England is desirable, but in the south of England localities can be found which are fairly well adapted to the needs of these patients. Sea-board and the beds of rivers should probably be avoided. Egypt suits well where the patient can travel without great difficulty. As regards drugs, much benefit is derived from the use of tonics, iodine, and cod-liver oil, given over long periods. The most useful tonics are arsenic, iron, and quinine. Garrod laid stress on the great value of the iodide of iron in combination with arsenic. Arsenic should be persevered with steadily, with occa- sional intervals, and is perhaps more usefully employed in small doses for a lengthened period than when given in larger doses, which cannot be continued so long. The dried sulphate of iron in pill with arsenic is a useful combination. The iodides are of great value, but should be combined with tonics. Iodide of potassium alone has an unfavourable effect on the general health, which is not compensated by the relief it may afford to the joint pain. Cod-liver oil is highly beneficial, and patients should be en- couraged to continue its use. For the relief of pain hyoscyamus has been recommended. Bannatyne and others, who believe that the acute forms of the disease have a bacterial origin, have employed with benefit drugs which are supposed to be antidotal to micro-organisms, or their products, when given internally. Bannatyne has employed the creasotes and guaiacols, the phenols (salol and salophen), and the naphthols, and believes that the creasotes have a more or less specific action on the disease, that the phenols are useless, and that the naphthols are of much use by reason of their effect on the contents of the intestine. He recommends the employment of carbonate of guaiacol, gr. v.-x. t. d. s. in cachet. The salicylates reduce pain and fever in the acute stages, but should not be persevered with. Colchicum, invaluable in gout, is contra-indi- cated here. Aspirin (salicylo-acetic acid) in doses of gr. X.-XV. relieves pain markedly, and can be taken over considerable periods without producing the depression which limits the usefulness of the salicylates in these cases. It is conveniently given in cachets, and is of decided value. Ichthyol internally has been recommended, but reports are conflicting as to its value. Baths have long been held in repute as a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis, and are of great value in properly selected cases. Baths are not indicated for the elderly and debilitated, who may be decidedly the worse for them, but benefit chiefly early cases, and those in whom the general health is fair, and where the joint affection has not advanced far towards hopeless deformity. Baths necessitating long immersions are not advisable, and probably douche-massage, first practised at Aix-les-Bains, and admirably carried out there, is the most useful form. The exact chemical properties of the water employed is of less importance than skill and care in manipulation, but there is value in thermal water. Bracing air is a decidedly valuable adjunct to treatment by bathing. In this country Harrogate, Woodhall Spa, Buxton, and Bath have a reputation for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, and the three first named have the advantage of highly bracing air. At Bath the methods of Aix-les- Bains are carefully followed, and the water is thermal. Llandrindod "Wells and Droitwich are advised for these patients, and at Strathpeffer mud- baths are given as well as other treatment. The mud-baths of Ischl (Austria) are in high repute, and those of Acqui (N. Italy) have local renown. Acqui also possesses hot sulphur springs. Bareges (Hautes - Pyr(^n^es) is a celebrated spa, but does not offer such luxurious accommodation to visitors as Aix. Wiesbaden is much frequented. Where antemia is marked a course of natural iron water at one of the ferruginous spas, such as Schwalbach, may be useful. The iron water of Flitwick is of decided value where digestion is weak and the ordinary preparations of iron disagree. Electric baths have been much recommended. They should be employed only by skilled persons. The course needs to be long, two or three baths a week for two or three months. Such prolonged courses of baths would seem to be open to some objection. Turkish baths and vapour baths give temporary relief to pain and stiffness, but these baths repeated fre- quently are not beneficial and should be discouraged. After a course of baths an after-cure spent in high and bracing air is of great benefit, and should, if possible, always be taken. In advising a course abroad it is well to warn patients to avoid the hottest months of the season. Baths during extreme heat may be followed by considerable exhaustion and decided increase of antemia. One course of baths is rarely sufficient to effect the greatest possible amount of benefit. A second course should be taken after an interval varying according to the patient's condition, but never less than a year.