PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—HEMORRHAGE ^286 any contractions of the uterus have occurred, they will be increased by the ergot given, and so any possibility of their passing off and allowing the pregnancy to continue will be re- moved. Hydrastis Canadensis, on the other hand, is said to produce its effect by direct action on the muscle fibres of the blood-vessels, and so does not tend to accelerate the occur- rence of uterine contractions. The usual dose ■of it is from fifteen to twenty minims. Active treatment, consisting in the emptying of the uterus, is indicated under the following conditions:— (1) If it is obvious that the patient has lost as much blood as is safe. (2) If the discharge is foetid. (3) If the foetus is dead. If the indication for delivery is hsemorrhage alone, and there is no sign of intra-uterine de- composition, the easiest method of emptying the uterus consists in passing as many sea- tangle tents into the cervix as the latter will hold, after carefully disinfecting the external genitals and vagina, and then in plugging the vagina tightly with iodoform gauze. It is better to use a number of small tents in preference to a couple of large ones, as the dilating effect of the former is superior. The plug and tents are to be removed in twenty-four hours, or sooner if labour pains ensue. If there is no appearance of the latter when the tents are removed, it will be well to rupture the mem- branes, to draw down a foot into the vagina, and either to leave the further expulsion to the uterine contractions, or to complete the delivery ■of the foetus. In all cases, if contractions do not follow the rupture of the membranes within four to six hours, it will be best to empty the uterus, as there is always a danger of decom- position occurring if we wait too long. An alternative treatment to the use of sea-tangle tents is the plugging of the utero-vaginal canal with iodoform gauze after the method of Diihrssen. To do this, the cervix is drawn down by means of an American forceps on both lips, after thorough disinfection of the vagina, and is dilated with Hegar's dilators as far as possible without laceration. The end of a long strip of iodoform gauze, two inches wide, and either single or double as is preferred, is passed by means of a sound as far into the uterus as possible. This is followed by the remainder of the strip, and when it is finished, by another similar strip which is knotted on to the first. Each bit of gauze is passed as high into the uterus as possible, and so the maximum amount introduced. As soon as the cavity is filled, the vagina is plugged tightly. This plug is left in situ for twenty-four hours, or until strong labour pains ensue, and is then removed. The advantage of this method is that all haemor- rhage is checked, that intra-uterine decomposi- tion is prevented, and that, even if labour does not follow its removal, there is then sufficient dilatation of the cervix to permit of the easy extraction of the foetus. In those cases in which haemorrhage is com- plicated by the occurrence of decomposition, the emptying of the uterus must be carried out at one sitting. This is always a more or less troublesome operation owing to the small size of the cervix, and frequently it will only be possible to extract the child after some proceed- ing akin to embryotomy. The author has found the following plan to be rapid and comparatively easy. Disinfect the vagina thoroughly, and dilate the cervix as far as possible with Hegar's dilators. Pass one finger into the uterus, seize one, or if possible both feet, and draw^ them down as far as possible, which will usually be until the breech comes into the cervical canal. As soon as they cannot be di'awn down any farther, introduce a Schultze's spoon-forceps, or other forceps of a similar shape, into the uterus alongside the breech, and catch the latter in it and pull it down. This will result in the tearing off of part of it, and then a fresh hold is taken, and so on until the body of the child is extracted piecemeal. The head will be found the most difficult to remove, as it has the largest diameter, but by means of the forceps it can be crushed and so extracted. A Schultze's spoon- forceps is a very safe instrument for such a course of procedure, as, owing to its shape, it has no tendency to catch the uterine walls, while it easily seizes anything which is lying in the cavity. As soon as the foetus has been entirely removed, the finger is again passed into the uterus and the placenta detached, while counter-pressure is made upon the fundus by the hand placed on the abdominal wall. The uterus is then well douched with a solution of creolin and water (1 in 320), or other antiseptic, and the cavity plugged with iodoform gauze. The latter must be removed in from twelve to twenty-four hours, and the uterus again douched if there is any rise of temperature. Prognosis.—The prognosis in these cases is good unless the patient has been allowed to become very much weakened by constant haemorrhage, or unless she has absorbed an excessive dose of ptomaines from the decomposed foetus. For this reason the uterus must always be emptied as soon as any of the indications for active treatment, as given above, show themselves. II. HEMORRHAGE DUE TO ExTRA-UtERINE Pregnancy When the ovum escapes into the broad liga- ment, and survives that event, the condition is known as a mesometric pregnancy. The peri- toneum which forms the broad ligament now occupies the relationship to the ovum which the tube formerly did, and as a result it is liable to share the same fate, i.e. secondary rupture of the gestation sac may occur. The immediate I