110 PLAGUE communicates infection to man, nothing very definite can be stated. In the minority of cases direct contact with a recently dead rat can be ascertained. Usually only the presence of the plague rat under the floors and ceilings of the house, or among bales and boxes in the house or store, can be proved. In rat-infested places their fseces are found all over the building, proving their wide distribution throughout the house, and we know that the bacillus pestis occurs in the urine, fseces, pus from buboes, and bronchial secretion of plague rats. Hence the infection of dust, food, clothing, and anything else in the house is extremely probable; in this way infection may reach man. The ratjlea theory of infection advanced by Simond is an attractive one, but sufficient proof of its truth has not been demonstrated. He holds that fleas from the infected rat become parasitic on man and inoculate him with the disease. In support of this he points out the phlyctenules, which are sometimes found on the same part of the body as the bubo, and which might be produced by a flea-bite. This theory received some support in Sydney, and experi- ments made there to some extent confirmed Simond's views. Simond's experiments have, however, been adversely criticised by several writers. Nuttall {.Journal of Trop. Med., March 1902) says: " The evidence in favour of the flea- hypothesis is worthless and cannot withstand scientific criticism." He found negative results in a series of experiments, but thought that flies (Musca domestica) might be a source of danger in disseminating plague. Galli-Valerio found that the two varieties of fleas most commonly infesting rats and mice, the Typhlopsylla muscuH and Pulex fasciatus, would not bite him, and readily left him unless confined on his body. The Pulex erinacei, which is also found on rats, bit man, but not readily. The common flea of dogs and cats, and sometimes found on rats, the Pulex serraticeps, readily bit man. All these fleas can be readily distinguished from the Pulex irritans which infests man. Galli-Valerio, therefore, came to the conclusion that Pulex serraticejjs and Pulex ei'inacei might sometimes convey plague from rat to man, and that Typhlopsylla muscidi could convey plague from rat to rat. The rat fleas which attack man are, however, either rare on the rat or do not readily bite man {Journal of Trop. Med., 1st Feb. 1902, and Centralb. f. Bakt., Band xxvii. and xxviii., 1900). I have myself rarely entered a plague-infected house in Cape Town or Port Elizabeth without experiencing several flea-bites, which, however, proved non-infective, and this experience was shared by the numerous disinfecting gangs em- ployed in such houses under my direction. Cases of plague among the disinfecting staff are uncommon, considering their frequent oppor- tunities of becoming infected, but this may be due to their having been, in most cases, inocu- lated with Haffkine's prophylactic. To summarise this subject, it seems probable, though the question cannot be considered to be settled, that while fleas may in some cases inoculate the disease or furnish in their bite an aperture through which plague infection may be introduced, the common method in which the rat infects man is by contact of abraded skin surfaces of man with material infected by plague rats. (2) Plague Infection from Person to Perso7i. —It is a recognised fact that plague in a well- ventilated hospital is only infectious to a slight degree. The only cases which appear to be at all infectious in hospitals are the pneumonic and septicsemic cases. A well-known example of this was seen in the Vienna group of cases in 1898, in which a nurse and a medical attendant both contracted plague pneumonia while in attendance upon a case of this type of the disease. It is to be noted that plague pneu- monia tends to reproduce itself, as is well seen in the Bachergunge outbreak, quoted by the Indian Plague Commission, where twenty cases of this type, extending through six generations of infection, occurred. Bubonic cases are not as a rule very infectious, the bacillus being for the most part localised in the affected glands and their immediate sur- roundings, and only entering the blood-stream towards the approach of death, i.e. when septi- caemia has set in. Such cases might then become infectious by the agency of fleas (if such a mode of spread be accepted), and in addition, such cases are infectious through the lungs, fseces, urine, and haemorrhages which may occur. As regards the infectivity of the urine, in Sydney, out of experiments in twenty-nine cases, ten showed plague-like bacilli in the urine, but these could not be isolated, and inoculation of animals furnished negative results. Further, plague bacilli failed to grow in human urine, whether sterilised by heat or by passing through a Pasteur-Chamberlain filter, and whether left acid or neutralised. On two occasions, how- ever, growths on agar were obtained from the urine of guinea-pigs which had died of the disease. The bacilli of plague have been stated to have been recovered from the fseces, but most observers state that they have failed to do so. It is possible that the numerous difficulties attending the separation of the organism may account for their failure. It is necessary, there- fore, to consider both the urine and fseces to be infectious, especially in septicsemic plague and possibly in other types, though the presence of the bacillus in these excretions has not been satisfactorily determined. The plague bacillus may also gain exit from the body when the bubo is opened, though here again many