RESPIRATION 510 It is also frequently observed in cerebral affec- tions such as tumours, heemorrhage, meningitis, etc. Cheyne-Stokes respiration, again, is often de- veloped in the course of cardiac disease, usually in cases of chronic valvular disease with as- sociated myocardial degeneration and arterio- sclerosis, or in cases of primary disease of the myocardium, and very rarely in cases of acute cardiac disease. In this group of cases the Cheyne-Stokes respiration is probably more directly due to the vascular disease than to any secondary implication of the kidneys. Lastly, this form of respiration has been re- corded in fatal cases of sunstroke, and in rare instances in connection with other conditions. Whatever be the morbid condition with which the Cheyne-Stokes respiration is associated, its occurrence is a matter of serious import; and though it does not invariably imply that disease is about to terminate fatally, yet the prognosis becomes more grave than it would otherwise have been. The explanation of Cheyne-Stokes respiration has been the subject of much controversy. Traube's theory assumed that the excitability of the respiratory centre is reduced, and that CO, is present in excess in the blood. Filehne supposed that the CO., accumulating in the blood during the respiratory pause causes stimu- lation of the vaso-motor centre, and consequent arterial contraction. As a residt the blood be- comes still more venous, and the respiratory centre is then gradually awakened to activity, but oxygenation of the blood being effected the activity of the respiratory centre diminishes, and consequently the rate and force of the respiratory movements are reduced. According to Franck the irregularity of respiration is de- pendent on impairment or inhibition of the cere- bral control exerted on the respiratory centre. Bacteriological Aspects of Respiration.— As has been already stated, the air always contains micro-organisms. The majority of these are probably saprophytic and innocuous, and need not be considered further. Others, however, are pathogenic, and a few points re- garding them are here dealt with. These bacteria exist in the air under two conditions : firstly, adherent to fine dust particles; and, secondly, within minute fluid droplets. In con- sidering what risk an individual incurs by the respiration of air containing bacteria attached to particles of dust, it must be remembered that, although bacterial spores and tubercle bacilli withstand desiccation, most bacteria do not long maintain their vitality in the absence of moisture. The inhalation of a dust-laden atmosphere is in itself, therefore, probably capable of causing infection only when there are tubercle bacilli or spores, such as those of the B. anthracis, associated with the dust particles. The minute fluid droplets which contain bacteria are probably more dangerous than solid particles. It wasin 1897 thatFliigge first demon- strated that phthisical individuals on coughing set free minute droplets of sputum which remain suspended in the air; and it was also proved that when any individual coughs, sneezes, or speaks, he causes the liberation from the secre- tions of the mouth, nose, or pharynx of minute fluid droplets which contain bacteria. These droplets are then in suspension in the air, and a current of air with a velocity of rather less than 0-1 mm. per second suffices to convey them still farther from the individual. Again, it is now known that such minute droplets, being inhaled, whether by the nose or mouth, may be carried down even into the finest bronchi by the current of inspired air. It is therefore evident that a patient affected with respiratory disease, such as tuberculosis, coryza, bronchitis, or influenza, disseminates in his vicinity droplets containing pathogenic bacteria ; and it is also evident that not only are persons in the neighbourhood of that patient almost certainly inhaling those bacteria, but that the patient himself must inhale many of the bacteria which he has previously set free. It appears doubtful whether fluid droplets can be liberated from the tenacious sputum of ordinary croupous pneumonia. But the mere inhalation of pathogenic bacteria does not suffice to cause infection, for the organism is well provided with means of pro tection. Large numbers of the inhaled bacteria will impinge against the mucous membrane of the nose and naso-pharynx, the former of which, at least, is known to possess marked bactericidal power; and such bacteria as are carried to the bronchi will likewise be destroyed, owing to the bactericidal power inherent in the bronchial mucous membrane, or having impinged on the cilia, will be eliminated during subsequent expiratory acts. The lower parts of the normal respiratory tract, therefore, are not invariably sterile, and may at times contain various micro-organisms. But as bacteria enter- ing the healthy trachea or bronchi of man are probably quickly destroyed, these portions of the respiratory tract and also the pulmonary alveoli may, as a rule, be regarded as sterile, as in point of fact they are usually found to be in the smaller animals. If, however, there be a local predisposition to disease, or if the resistant power of the organism be reduced, pathogenic bacteria on being inspired will cause infection. Rest-Cure.—The AVeir Mitchell treat- ment. See Mitchell, Weir ; Heart, Myo- cardium AND Endocardium {Treatment, Rest and Exercise); Stomach and Duodenum, Dis- eases OF {Treatment of Gastric Neuroses); Ulcers and Ulceration {Treatment).