PUERPERIUM, PATHOLOGY OF 380 of all the bodily functions, and a corresponding- attention to mental hygiene. There ought to be, throughout the pregnancy of a nervous woman, a scrupulous care of diet, periodic investigation into the condition of the alimentary tract, the liver, the kidneys, and the skin, and a system- atic mode of life prescribed, which will ensure much more than the usual amount of fresh air, and not much less than the usual amount of recuperative exercise. If these precautions be taken, and dangerous developments corrected, even unlikely cases would be safely got through. Moreover, it is only by some such method, approaching that of the paternal type of family doctor, that the signs of incipient mental derangement can be observed and a grave de- velopment obviated. If insanity of a fairly pronounced type has occurred, the first questions are those of manage- ment—where to treat the case, and in what kind of general conditions. It goes without saying that the patient must be as healthily conditioned as possible, that she must have as good air and as good food as circumstances permit. But she must also be carefully guarded. If her symptoms are aggravated by the life of her home she must be removed, though prefer- ably not to an asylum. In any case she must have constant companionship; and if at home, the companion must not be one who will excite her jealousy, either concerning her husband or, if she has any, her other children. She must have long hours of rest in bed in a very airy and bright room, and she should, unless local conditions forbid it, have exercise in the open air, bedroom gymnastics, or massage. In the insanity of the puerperium, and in that of lactation, the patient should be separated from her child and from her husband. Many puerperal cases lend themselves to home treat- ment. The conditions to be treated are the pelvic, the disordered digestion, and the mental excitability. Vaginal douching and uterine douching, when necessary, should be made use of as freely as if the patient were not insane, and her tendency to misinterpret these measures should be ignored. The mouth should be kept clean by the use of mild scrubbing with medi- cated vaseline, or an antiseptic wash. Food can be administered by the tube, and a little patience and care will usually induce tolerance of it, so that even the stomach may be washed out without greatly disturbing the patient. For the muscular excitement I believe in physical restraint—the packing of the patient for periods when she is supposed to rest in blankets bound round her trunk and limbs, and enclosed in a mattress tied round with straps or sheets. As to sedatives, it is the opinion of most that their use is inadvisable ; but that is probably because of the unsatisfactory result of continued doses of too small a quantity. Several hours of sleep may be obtained by the rectal injection of paraldehyde in brandy with warm oil. Begin with a usual dose, but repeat and increase it, after a few hours, if the symptoms are favourable, giving three or four drachms in half an ounce of brandy, along with the oil, or with soup, or peptonised jelly. Similarly, and as an alternative, if the stomach tolerates liquid feeding, give bromide in full doses, working up to a drachm every four hours before the patient acquires a tolerance of it. But do not continue the use of a sedative for more than thirty-six or forty-eight hours. For the insanity of lactation the treatment, again, is towards correcting the physical factors —by weaning the child, and building up the depleted tissues—removing the patient from the home environment which has exhausted her, and making herself, her husband, and her child safe from her violent impulses. v.—SARCOMA-DECIDUO-CELLULARE OR DECIDUOMA MALIGNUM Historical ...... 380 Clinical Features . ... . .381 Pathological Anatomy . . . .381 Diagnosis . . . ■ ■ .382 Treatment . . . . . .382 Histogenesis . . . . ■ .382 On the 16th July 1888, at a meeting of the Leipzig Obstetrical Society, Professor Sanger made a communication upon " two uncommon cases of abortion "; one of these cases was the first recorded example of the disease which we have now to consider. Since then nearly 100 cases have been recorded and a considerable literature has accumulated, from which we have learned that this disease diifers suflficiently from all others hitherto described to justify its separate consideration. Observers are almost unanimous as to its connection with pregnancy, its clinical features, pathological appearances, and appropriate treatment, but they differ in their views as to its histogenesis. The case reported by Sanger was so typical of the entire group of recorded cases, that I think a resunie of it will serve as an introduction better than any mere definition. The patient was a young married woman, aged 23, who aborted at the eighth week in consequence of a fall from a railway carriage. The abortion was incomplete, and ha3morrhage continued for three weeks. In the fourth week the discharge became foetid, and Sanger was called in. He found the patient very ansemic, with symptoms of septic absorption and putrefaction of the uterine contents. The uterus was thoroughly cleared out, hemorrhage and discharge ceased, and the temperature became normal; the pulse, however, continued to be over 100, and recovery was so slow that she did not leave her bed for five months. Her protracted convalescence was attributed to a