PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 52 (2) Consonant Sounds.—These are more of the nature of noises—irregular vibi'ation. They are produced either—(1) at tlie lips, (2) between the teeth and hard palate and the tongue, or A I (3) at the soft palate and back of the tongue. At these situations sounds may be produced— (1) by closing the orifice and then suddenly forcing it open, (2) by sending a current of air over a narrowing produced at one of these places, (3) by setting the edges of the narrowing in vibration. When the mouth is closed at one of these situations and air is forced through the nose, the nasal consonant sounds result. Thus, according to their mode of production, the consonant sounds may be classified into explosives, aspirates, vibratories, or nasals. II. Food and Digestion /. Food.—The great use of food is to supply energy to the body. The muscles of the body are constantly active ; they are constantly liber- ating energy by breaking down the complex molecules of proteins, fats, and carbohydrates, and hence a constant fresh supply of such material is necessary to prevent the body living on its own matei'ial and wasting away (see vol. vii. p. 514). During the growth of the body, too, the material from which it is to be built up, and the energy used in its construction, must be supplied by the food. Hence a suitable food is one which will yield the necessary amount of energy, and will supply the materials necessary for repair and for growth. But food must also supply the water and salts required to keep the various constituents of the body in solution, so that the essential chemical changes may go on. Nature of Food Food may be divided into foods not yielding energy and foods yielding energy. A. Food-Sti(ffs not yielding Energy. — 1. Water is the chief constituent. Since it is daily given off in large quantities by the kidneys, lungs, skin, and bowels, it must daily be supplied in sufficient amounts or the chemical changes cannot go on and death supervenes. 2. Inorganic Salts.—The most important of these is sodium chloride, which is essential for the maintenance of the chemical changes in the body. When it is not freely supplied in the food, it is retained in the tissues, and hence animals can, when necessary, live with a comparatively small supply. 3. Salts of Organic Acids. —The sodium and potassium salts of citric, malic, and tar- taric acid, which are found abundantlj^ in various vege- tables, when taken into the { tissues, are oxidised into car- ^ bonates which are strongly alkaline salts. The proteins which ai'e decomposed in the body contain sulphur and phosphorus, and these are oxidised into sulphuric and phosphoric acids. In herbivorous animals the prejudicial effect of such acids is counter- acted by the formation of these alkaline carbon- ates which neutralise the acids. In carnivorous animals these salts are not so necessary, since ammonium is formed from the nitrogen of the proteins in sufficient quantity to neutralise the acids produced-. Man occupies a position mid- way between the herbivora and the carnivora. The amount of energy yielded by the breaking down of these salts into carbonates is so small that it is of no importance. B. Food-Stuffs yielding Energy.—These are complex combinations of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, with or without nitrogen, sulphur, phosphorus, and iron. They are of the same nature as the materials which are found on analysis of dead protoplasm. They are com- monly spoken of as the Proximate Principles of the food, and they may be classified as follows :— 1. Nitrogen-containing—Proteins and Sclero- proteins. 2. Non-nitrogenous—Fats and Carbohydrates. In studying the value of these food-stuffs it is necessary to consider their Energy Value— that is, the amount of energy which can be yielded by the decomposition of a definite quantity of each in the body. The fats and carbohydrates leave the body as carbon dioxide and water, the proteins leave it partly as carbon dioxide and water, partly as urea CO(NH.3)2. Such a body as glucose, CgHjjOg, by being oxidised to CO, and H,,0, gives off a cei'tain amount of kinetic energy, and the amount of energy liberated is the same whether the oxida- tion is direct or takes place through any of many possible lines of chemical change. In whatever ways a chemical substance breaks down into certain final products, the energy set free is always the same, and this principle is taken advantage of in determining the energy value of the food-stuffs. If fats and carbohy- drates are changed to carbon dioxide and water