PLAGUE 113 times, and at other times the outbreak among rat and man appears to progress side by side. It is noteworthy that on many occasions plague has not been inclined to spread by land; in South Africa the disease has never gained a footing outside the coast towns of Cape Town, Port Elizabeth, and Mossel Bay, and medical inspection has been sufficient to prevent sus- pected persons travelling inland to infect other parts of the country ; a few isolated cases have occurred here and there, but their prompt notification and isolation has prevented the spread of the disease. The small localised out- breaks which have occurred in England and Scotland have also been readily subdued. In India, however, the case is otherwise, and plague has spread by land over most of the Indian Empire. (6) By Sea.—The present pandemic prevalence of plague is almost entirely due to its diffusion by sea. In 1894 Southern China and Assyr (Arabia) were the only parts of the world at all likely to infect the rest of the globe. Eeference to the geographical distribution of plague, already referred to, for the years since 1894, shows the gradual development of plague in Eastern ports, Assyr at first having little influence. The infection of Bombay in 1896, probably from Chinese ports, was shortly followed by the gradual invasion of a considerable portion of India, and in 1902 the area of infection was still increasing in that country. In 1897 Assyr probably infected Jeddah and Mecca, and from Jeddah, from Bombay, and from the ports of Southern Cliina very many of the countries of the world have now become infected, though in many cases the importation of infection has not resulted in an epidemic at the port into which plague has been introduced. Among the European ports into which plague has been introduced fi-om infected extra-European places may be instanced Marseilles, Genoa, Trieste, Hamburg, Cardiff", London, Plymouth, Hull, Bremen, Naples, Oporto, and Dunkirk, fortu- nately in most cases without setting up an epidemic. Plague frequently exhibits a tendency to spread in a country from port to port (Australia and South Africa), or to places upon navigable rivers (Australia and South America). There are, at least, three possible vehicles of spread of plague over sea, viz. infected man, infected rats, and infected goods and clothing. There appears to be little or no evidence that plague has invaded a country by the aid of infected goods, where evidence of gross contami- nation by plague rats is absent (a few cases of infection by clothing have been already noted). On the other hand, there is a good deal of evidence that plague rats have carried infection from country to country. The source of infec- tion of Asuncion (Paraguay) is ascribed to this agency. Rice-bags from India, it is alleged, VOL. VIII were transhipped into a sailing ship, the Zeir, in which dead rats were afterwards found, and on board which cases of suspicious illness occurred. From the Zeir the rice-bags were transhipped into a steamer, the Centauro, which called at various Argentine ports on her voyage up the River Plate, and on board which three suspicious deaths occurred among the crew, and on which excessive mortality among rats was observed. A fortnight after the arrival of this ship in Asuncion a large rat epidemic was noticed on the Customs House premises, bacteriological examination confirming the diagnosis of plague. An outbreak of plague in man followed. The infection of the South African ports is ascribed, as has been said, to infected rats in South American forage which was conveyed in great quantity during the war; the dock employes were the first to contract the disease, under conditions already described. Plague in Sydney is supposed to have been introduced from some infected port, the dock rats becoming first affected, and subsequently the town and its inhabitants. Plague rats were also found in the docks at Adelaide, Brisbane, and Melbourne. It is noteworthy that in most plague-infected ports it is the dock employes who are first attacked, which would seem to absolve ships' crews and passengers from being the usual carriers of infection, though sometimes cases are detected among sailors at the routine medical examination of the vessel on arrival. The infection seems, therefore, to be conveyed by the ship by some other means than the crew and passengers, and that, it is surmised, is by infected rats and infected goods. We have noted that most of the evidence at our disposal points to infected rats as being the great carriers of infection from country to country. This view is further strengthened by the very frequent association of plague rats in the docks of plague- infected ports ; in addition to the Australian and South African ports already referred to, we may instance Alexandria, Port Said, Santos, Rio de Janeiro, San Nicholas, Asun9ion, and other South American towns. While attaching great importance to the importation of the infection of plague by means of the rat, the agency of man as a carrier of infection must not be overlooked. Many instances of ships having human plague cases on board have been detected at their port of arrival. To consider only the cases which have arrived in this country:—In 1896 three cases occurred in London Docks among the crews of steamers from Bombay some days after arrival in port. In 1897 and 1898 two cases occurred in each year during the homeward voyage from India. In 1899 four ships were reported as infected. In 1900 twenty-three ships arrived in English ports with suspicious cases, among whom only four were proved bacteriologically to be plague. In 1901 thirty-three suspected 8