PLAGUE 108 axillary, and inguinal regions was 1 : 1'3 : 5'8. The explanation therefore of the more frequent occurrence of buboes in the groin seems to be that a much larger skin surface drains into these glands, and therefore the greater the skin surface the greater the chance of infection of a region. As instances of infection by inocula- tion may be cited those cases infected at post- mortems by cutting the fingers, or through abrasions already present. In such cases a bubo subsequently develops corresponding to the site of inoculation. The frequency of buboes in the neck in children may be ascribed to their habit of putting things into the mouth, the channel of entry being cracked lips, or other wounds in that neighbourhood; or perhaps infection reaches the neck through the tonsil. There is a case recorded of a pneumonic patient spitting on to the conjunctiva of a nurse, who developed a cervical plague bubo. The site of inoculation is sometimes found as a small slightly inflamed papule or pustule, and the plague bacillus may in some cases be recovered from the point of entry. The glands corre- sponding to this pustule are those affected, and sometimes inflamed lymphatics may lead from the pustule to the bubo. As a rule one is unable to discover definitely the point of in- oculation. (2) Inhalation.—This is probably the mode of entry of infection in pneumonic and sometimes septictemic plague. It is well recognised that exposure to an ill-ventilated atmosphere, charged with plague bacilli floating in the dust of such a room, is a common source of infection. This latter condition appears to have been the mode of infection at the "Wakes" held in the early Glasgow cases in 1900, where, among those who attended, several contracted the disease. In India this mode of infection is probably common in the ill-ventilated houses, which are dark, dirty, and densely crowded, and where the atmosphere is breathed over and over again, becoming laden with plague bacilli, and highly infectious to those inhaling it. In well-venti- lated houses and hospitals, the atmosphere may be disregarded as a carrier of plague infection. This loss of infectivity of plague in the presence of efficient ventilation resembles closely what is observed in typhus fever. Kitasato claims to have demonstrated the presence of the bacillus pestis in dust from the walls of a room occupied by a plague patient. Experimentally, plague can be produced in rats by placing a small quantity of a plague culture on their nasal mucous membranes. (3) Ingestion.—Beyond infection through the tonsil, which may occur in cervical cases, there is no evidence of the ingestion of food causing plague infection. Infected food might con- ceivably infect wounds on the hands or lips. Childe has stated, as a result of his Indian ex- periences : " With regard to infection by food. no evidence was found post-mortem that the bacillus had entered through the stomach or intestine." The intestinal type of plague might be cited as a proof of food infection, but it is doubtful whether this type occurs apart from one of the other well-marked forms of plague. Rosenau states that the bacillus pestis can live a long time in milk, cheese, and butter, but it usually dies ovit quickly on the surface of fruits and prepared foods. In animal experiments it sometimes happens that a healthy rat consumes the body of one of its own species which has succumbed to plague, without itself developing the disease. On the other hand, several observers note that in like circumstances such animals have contracted the disease in a virulent form. B. Means of Spread.—(1) Plague in the Lower Animals and Infection to Man. Mam- malia—Pri7nates.—The brown monkey (Macacus radiatus), the grey monkey (Semnopithecus en- tellus), and the bonnet monkey (Macacus sinicus) are all very susceptible to plague, and instances are reported from India in which monkeys have acquired the disease in nature. They can there- fore aid in spreading the disease, though their influence is probably small. Rodentia.—The grey rat {Mus decumanus), the black rat (Mus ratus), and the white rat are all naturally susceptible to plague, which may occur epidemically among them. The influence of these animals in diffusing plague will be con- sidered presently. Mice, the pig rat or bandicoot {NesoMa bandicota), the grey striped squirrels of India, and possibly porcupines can naturally acquire the disease. Ferrets, used to exter- minate rats, frequently contract the disease in plague-infected localities (e.g. South Africa). Outbreaks have been recorded among small rodents of the nature of marmots, locally known as tarbagan (Arctomys bobac) in the Transbaikal Province of Eastern Siberia. This disease ap- pears to be transmitted from the marmot to man, and upon the infection of one member of a household several cases in the family frequently occur. There is no doubt that this disease is true plague. It breaks out periodically in the marmots about the autumn, just before the hibernating season, the symptoms observed being unsteadiness in gait, languor, and glandu- lar swellings ; the disease is very fatal (Clemow, Journal of Trop. Med., Feb. 1900). Marsupials.—Wallabies are reported to have become infected in Australia during 1902. Caryiivora.—Cats may acquire the disease, instances being reported from Australia, Mau- ritius, South Africa, and lately in British East Africa. Suspicious sickness and deaths among these animals have been reported on ships which have had human plague cases on board, some- times before the manifestation of the disease in man. Invertebrata.—Bugs, fleas, and flies have been