PLEUEA, DISEASES OF 133 fleeted on to the diaphragm, opposite a line passing from the lower end of the sternum out- wards behind the seventh costal cartilage, nearly as far as its rib ; here it leaves the seventh car- tilage, and, continuing to pass obliquely down- wards and backwards, crosses the eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs, and reaches the twelfth rib near its vertebral end." Others place the inferior limit of the pleurse in front, at the level of the sixth intercostal cartilage or the sixth intercostal space. In the mid-axillary line the lower limit of the pleurse is from two to three inches above the lower margin of the thorax. The inferior limit is usually lower on the left side than on the right, viz. the lower border of the ninth rib on the right side, and the tenth on the left. The inferior limit of the pleurae posteriorly varies from the upper border of the twelfth rib to the level of the first lumbar vertebra. The relations of the pleurte to the pericardium are sometimes of clinical import- ance. "The layers forming the sides of the anterior mediastinum pass backwards from the sternum to the pericardium in close relationship with one another, except below, where a tri- angular interval is sometimes formed between them. At the front of the pericardium the two layers separate, each passing round its own side of the pericardium to the front of the root of the corresponding lung, where it becomes con- tinuous with the visceral pleura " (Quain). The triangular interval here mentioned corresponds to the inner end of the fifth left intercostal space, and is of importance inasmuch as this is the only situation in which paracentesis peri- cardii can be performed without wounding the pleura. In many cases, however, this space is covered by pleura. Communications by means of the lymphatic channels exist between the pleurae and the peritoneiun. Pathology.—The pathology of affections of the pleura is at present in an unsettled state. The tendency of recent investigations has been to regard all pleurisies as toxic, to accentuate the large part in causation which is played by various micro-organisms, to regard most pleurisies not otherwise obviously accounted for as probably tubercular, and to call in question the existence of the so-called "simple," "idio- pathic," or "inflammatory" pleurisy. These controverted questions will be presently con- sidered in some detail. The bacteriology of the disease has engaged the attention of a large nmnber of observers in this country, on the Continent, and in America, amongst whom may be mentioned Fraenkel, Xetter, Weichselbaum, Laveran, Serafini, Levy, Lemoine, Aschoff', Mitchell Prudden, Sidney Martin, "Washboume, Goldscheider, Jakowski, Thue, and Landouzy. The results obtained have been of much interest and considerable practical value, but discrep- ancies appear in the conclusions of different observers, and it is evident that finality is as yet far from having been attained. The con- clusions of pathology, and especially of bacteri- ology, must be subjected to a rigid criticism and intei-preted in the light of the facts of clinical experience before satisfactory views can be attained. In view of the contradictory results of many observers, the statement of E. Levy that "die Aetiologie der Pleuritis welche vor wenigen Jahren noch in tiefes Dunkel gehuUt war, heute mit Hilfe der bacteriologischen Forschujig ein wohlgekanntes wohl durchgear- beitetes Gebiet geworden sei," must be pro- nounced premature. Bacteriology has not yet spoken its decisive word on this subject, but the I path of probable fruitful progress has been clearly indicated. The changes which take place in pleurisy are ! in many respects those common to inflam- j mations of serous membranes. The membrane i becomes injected and hypereemic, and loses its ! normal glistening appearance. There is pro- : liferation of the nuclei of the endothelial cells, j and soon a fibrinoiis exudation appears on the surface of the membrane and forms shaggy pro- j jections from it. The process may stop at this j point, as in the so-called "dry" pleurisy, and adhesions may form between the opposed pleural I surt'aces; but in a large proportion of cases j serous fluid is exuded, and collects between the j layers of the pleura. This fluid may consist of limpid serum, or of a more or less turbid and flocculent flviid, or of pus, or it may contain varying quantities of blood. The quantity may vary from a few ounces to many pints. After a variable period absorption iisually sets in, and may proceed satisfactorily until con- valescence is completed. The two layers of the pleura again come into contact, granulation tissue is formed, and the two layers become in many cases more or less adherent, the pleural cavity being to this extent obliterated. The lung on the affected side tends to collapse, at first owing to the alteration of the normal negative pressure in the pleural cavity, later in consequence of the pressure of the increasing exudation. It may become entirely compressed and airless, or it may float on the surface of the fluid. It tends to shrink towards its root. We shall now consider the various kinds of effusion in more detail. A. Serous Effusion.—The term " serous " is a misnomer, as the fluid always contains fibrin. It is in reality a dilute liquor sanguinis. The colour is yellow or yellowish green. The specific gravity usually exceeds 1018, and may be as high as 1030, but may also be low. The re- action is alkaline. The fluid may be perfectly limpid, but is often turbid, owing to the presence of large quantities of corpuscular elements. In this latter case the transition to pus is probable, but perfectly limpid serum rarely becomes purulent. Microscopic examination shows the