47 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES o /z O zo CO^ 46 Fig. 152.—Shows the difference in the gases of arterial and venous blood. refer to the changes in the gases of the blood in passing through the lungs (p. 6). Analyses show that the blood going to the lungs is poorer in oxygen and richer in carbon dioxide than the blood coming from the lungs (Fig. 152). Oxy- gen is taken hy the blood from the air, carbon dioxide is given by the blood to the air. How is this effect- ed'? The extensive capillary network in the walls of the air vesicles, if spread out in a continuous sheet, would present a surface of about 75 square metres. Between the blood in the capillaries and the air in the air vesicles are two layers of living cells— \st. The endothelium lining the capillaries. 2nd. The flattened cells lining the air vesicles. Through these cells the interchange of gases must take place. The interchange might take place in two different ways— \st. By simple mechanical diffusion. 2nd. By some special action of the cells. If the process follows strictly the laws of simple diffusion, it is then unnecessary to invoke the activity of the cells as playing a part. But if the gaseous interchange does not strictly follow these laws, we must conclude that the cells do play a part. To determine if the process can be accounted for by diffusion, it is therefore necessary to know— \st. The partial pressure or tension of the gases in the blood going to and coming from the lungs. 2nd. The partial pressure of the gases in the air in the air vesicles. \st. The Partial Pressure of the Gases in the Blood.—Whether a gas is simply dissolved or whether it be held in loose chemical combina- tion, the amount held will depend upon the temperature of the fluid and upon the pressure of the gas over the fluid. If the temperature is raised the fluid will hold less of the gas in isolution, and any chemical combination will tend to split, as is seen when carbonate of lime is heated and the carbon dioxide is driven off. If the pressure of any gas over a fluid be increased it will be taken up by the fluid, if it is decreased the gas will tend to come off from the fluid, as occurs when a bottle of soda-water is opened. But the same law applies to such chemical compounds as carbonate of lime. If it is heated in ordinary air—i.e. under a low pressure of carbon dioxide—the gas is given off; but if the lime is in an atmosphere of CO, the gas does not come off, but is taken up and the carbonate is formed. It will thus be seen that for every tempera- ture there is a certain pressure of the gas at which the solution or chemical combination will neither give off nor take up more of the gas. This may be determined by exposing the material in a series of chambers to air containing different proportions of the gas, and ascertaining by analyses of the air whether the gas has been given off or taken up, or has remained unaltered. The presence of a moist membrane between the fluid and the air makes no difference to these interchanges. For blood, some form of aerotonometer is used, an instrument in which blood is allowed to trickle through a tube filled with air of known composition till the tensions of the gases in the blood and air have become the same. The tension is then determined by analysis of the proportions of the gases in the air in the tube. We know that the pressure of gas in an at- mosphere depends upon the proportion present. Suppose an atmosphere contains 20 per cent of oxygen, then the pressure, or partial pressure, of the oxygen is got by multiplying the per- centage amount of the gas by 760—i.e. a whole atmosphere's pressure—and dividing by 100— „ , 20x 760 Pressure of oxygen = —j^^^^— = iSJ mm. The results obtained by means of the aerotonometer in the hands of different investi- gators have varied very widely. Another method of arriving at the tension of oxygen in the blood has been devised by Haldane. It depends upon the fact that if haemoglobin is exposed to a mixture of air with a trace of carbon monoxide in it, the amount of carbon monoxide taken up depends upon the oxygen tension — the greater the tension of oxygen the less CO will be taken up, and vice versa. Therefore if a person be allowed to breathe an atmosphere containing a known amount of CO, the amount of CO taken up by the blood will indicate the oxygen tension in the blood. By such methods, although the results of different observers vary so greatly, it appears that in blood going to the lungs the 0 tension may be as low as 20 mm. Hg and the CO., tension as high as 40 mm. Hg; and that in blood coming from tlie lungs the 0 tension is generally well over 100 mm. Hg, while the COg tension varies enormously, but is, on an average, about 20 mm. Hg. 2nd. Partial Pressure of Gases in the Air Vesicle.—The air in the alveoli is not renewed by direct ventilation from without, but by a process of diffusion (p. 42). For this reason the amount of oxygen in the alveoli must be much smaller, the amount of carbon dioxide much larger, than in the respired air. Haldane has devised a method of procuring samples of the alveolar air for analysis. A wide tube is fitted with a measured glass bulb near