137 PLEURA, DISEASES OF ultimately make a good recovery. If the temperature reach 104° F., or the respirations exceed forty per minute, it is probable that pneumonia is present. A hectic temperature and profuse sweating may be present in cases where the effusion consists of limpid serum. Symptoms cannot be relied upon to determine the nature of the effusion (see under " Em- pyema," p. 144). In the so-called " latent" or " quiet " pleurisy symptoms are sometimes said to be absent, but evidence of some degree of weakness and short- ness of breath can always be elicited. Physical Signs.—The characteristic sign of pleurisy in the first stage, before effusion has set in, is friction, which may, however, be absent. This is a scraping, grating, or creaking sound of variable, but usually considerable, intensity. Sometimes it has a greasy or sticky quality, and may be difficult to distinguish from crepitus (see under " Diagnosis"). It is usually heard both with inspiration and expira- tion, but is often loudest towards the end of inspiration. It gives the impression to the ear of being " superficial." It ceases when the breath is held. It is not affected by coughing. It may be intensified by pressure of the stetho- scope. Pleural friction is most often heard in the inferior antero-lateral region of the chest or in the axilla. It is also common at the base of the lung posteriorly. If it be audible at the apex the suspicion of tuberculosis is strengthened. It is often confined to a very limited area, but is sometimes heard somewhat widely over the affected side. Friction fremitus is common. While there is at this stage no true flattening of the affected side, the patient expands it as little as possible owing to the pain. The lymph present on the surface of the pleura at this stage does not cause any recog- nisable dulness on percussion, nor any ausculta- tory phenomena other than friction. Signs of Pleural Effusion.—Slight effusions may escape detection, but the presence of any considerable degree of effusion gives rise to a characteristic series of physical signs. (a) Inspection. — The affected side is moi'e or less immobile, either in its entire extent in very large effusions, or in a variable proportion of its inferior area. The antero-posterior diameter of the side is increased. The over-action of the healthy side is often marked. The intercostal spaces are usually, but by no means always, flattened. In recent effusions of moderate extent the normal dimpling of the spaces may be preserved for some time. Bulging of the intercostal spaces is excessively rare. (h) Palpation.—In the great majority of cases vocal fremitus is either diminished or lost. In some cases, especially in women and in debilitated patients, the normal vocal fremitus is so weak that the interpretation of this sign becomes difficult, but apart from such cases the decided diminution or loss of vocal fremitus is one of the most trustworthy signs of the presence of fluid in the pleural cavity. It may, however, be fallacious (see under "Diagnosis," p. 139). (c) Percussion.—Increased sense of resistance and dulness co-extensive with the area of the fluid are practically invariable. According to Guttmann dulness only becoines appi-eciable when the layer of fluid has a thickness of at least \^ cm. Probably few physicians would now accept Skoda's dictum that " the percussion sound is not altered by mere thickening of the pleura, nor by layers (several lines deep) of fluid or solid exudations upon it." The dulness is not complete until the lung is entirely emptied of air by the pressure of the fluid. In large effusions the dulness takes on a special " wooden " quality, which may be distinguished by the ear from the dulness of consolidation. The dulness usually is first manifest at the base of the lung posteriorly, and in small effusions it may be confined to this region. With an increasing effusion it invades the lateral region and the front, rising to a variable level, and in some cases occupying the entire side. In a considerable proportion of cases the upper level of the fluid is a curved line, the highest point of the curve being often in the axilla (Ellis and Garland). In patients who have been long bed- ridden the highest level of the fluid is usually found posteriorly. The outline of the dull area may be variously conditioned by recent or old adhesions, and may present many variations, which may suggest difficulties in diagnosis. It is quite exceptional for the level of the fluid to be altered by change of posture on the part of the patient. In a doubtful case this test is usually valueless. In the case of a considerable effusion which does not fill the entire pleural cavity the percussion note below the clavicle on the affected side is often tympanitic. This interesting fact was first observed by Skoda, and hence the sign has been called " Skodaic resonance." Its explanation is doubtful. Skoda's theory was that " when the lung is much reduced in volume by compression, but still contains air, its sound is invariably tym- panitic." C. J. B. Williams thought that the tympanitic note was produced in the trachea and the large bronchi, a view which is not, perhaps, very probable. (d) Auscultation.—Enfeeblement or oblitera- tion of the normal vesicular murmur, and weakening, with some alteration of tone of the normal vocal resonance, are the rule, but the auscultatory signs of pleural effusion present great variations, and require to be interpreted with caution. Bronchial breathing is common, especially in children, and may either gradually give way to more or less complete silence, or may continue during the stage of effusion. In the writer's experience the bronchial breathing