420 PULSE, THE elasticity is impaired. The instrumental apex of the systolic waves is not developed in the smaller curves which occur during inspiration, and this might be taken as evidence that the artery is more fully under vaso-raotor influence at this time. The effect of inspiration on the vaso-motor centre in the medulla is to cause stimulation, and it is conceivable that sometimes the arteries are alternately contracted and re- laxed as a result of deep inspiratory and expira- tory movements. The Influence of the Blood Pressui^e in the Venae Gomites Radiates in the Production of Res- spiratory mo\'ement is thrown largely on to the intrathoracic vessels and the heai't." Results of Clinical Observations on the Pulse diiring Laboured Breathing.—An examination of the writer's pulse- and respiration-tracings from children and adults shows that the line of the tracing does not fall during deep inspiration, except in a very small proportion of cases. In these instances the accessory muscles of respira- tion were generally called into action, and they probably caused slight movements of the arm which aff'ected the tracings during inspiration (Figs. 94 and 87). By supporting the arm firmly so as to mini- mise such move- ments, this kind of so-called respiratory variation disappears. These observations seem to show that in- spiration A'ery often simply leads to a dim- inution of the pulse- cvirve without lower- ing the level of the tracing. On the contrary it sometimes happens that there is a raising of the level of the pulse-curves during the inspiratory phase (Fig. 95), while the succeeding curves show prolonged diastolic portions coincident with expiration. The diastole of the inspir- atory pulse-wave may then be incomplete. It is very improbable that venous stasis and engorgement really modifies the sphygmogram so generally, or in such a marked manner as Hill asserts. Clinically, in carefully made obser- vations, we need only seriously consider this in- terference in a very small number of cases. Fia. 94.—Tlie/f(H ill the level of the tracing during inspiration is due to mechanical movements of the arm from the jiarticipation of the accessory muscles of respiration in the act. piratory Variations in the Pulse.—Leonard Hill and others believe that the veins which surround the radial artery bear an important share in the production of many of these respiratory varia- tions of the pulse. There is, these observers state, a mechanical displacement of the button of the sphygmograph above the level of the artery, due to a distension of these veins. In pathological conditions where, by l)ack pressure, the tension in the venous system is greatly raised, this filling of the vente comites is sup- posed to account for the various modifications of the sphygmographic tracing which have al- ready been described. The following passage is quoted from Hill's article on the Circulation in Schafer's Text-Booh of Physiology. He says : " The sphygmogram shows variations synchronous with the respiratory move- ments. Normally these are slight, but they become marked whenever the respir- ation is either deep or partially obstructed. During deep inspiration the line of the tracmg falls, whilst the excursion of the primary wave decreases, and the dicrotic wave becomes more evident. The vense comites radiales are here emptied, and the expanded lungs swallow up the blood, so that the arterial tension falls slightly. When expiration follows, the line of the tracing rises, and the excursion of each pulse is increased. During a deep inspiration the vessels in the radial sulcus appear to the finger of less breadth and of lower tension. In obstructed breathing the pulse-beats may, during inspiration, almost disappear, for the air cannot then enter freely, and thus the force of the in- Vvjv\IV v\ vJ . 7 Fig. 9.5.—To show the raising of the level of the piilse-curves during inspiration. Hill's Estimate of the Power attained by Venous Pressure.—Hill ascribes enormous power to venous pressure. During the performance of Valsalva's experiment—forced expiration with the mouth and nose shut—he says the pressure in the venae comites radiales rises to the mean arterial pressure. We do no think this opinion is shared by many physiologists. Dr. Oliver has failed to detect a direct re- lation between the evidence of a high radial calibre and that of venous pressure above the average ; he has, on the contrary, repeatedly met with low readings of the radial calibre when venous pressure was exceptionally high. An analysis of Hill's tracings (Schafer's Text-Book