PREGNANCY, PHYSIOLOGY OF—CHANGES IN THE MATERNAL ORGANS 223 the menstrual discharge. If, on the other hand, conception occurs, the hypertrophic process continues, giving rise to among others remark- able changes in the size, capacity, and form of the uterus. The modifications which take place in the uterine mucosa, resulting in the forma- tion of the deciducC, have been described. Changes in the size, weight, capacity, and form of the uterus. The unimpregnated normal uterus measures 3 inches in length, 2 inches in breadth, and 1 inch in thickness. Some authorities state the measurements of length and breadth as rather less than these—2|- and If inches. At full term of gestation the uterus has so grown that it measures from 12| to 15^ inches in length, from 9^ to lOf inches in breadth, and from 9 to 9f inches antero-posteriorly. The circumfer- ence at the level of the Fallopian tubes is about 29 inches. The weight of the virgin uterus is about 1^ ounces, that of the full term gravid uterus about 28 ounces. The surface of the unimpregnated uterus measures 5^ square inches, and its capacity is 1 cubic inch. At the end of pregnancy the sur- face of the organ is 350 square inches, and its cubic capacity is 400 inches, so that the latter has increased over 500 times. The form of the uterus also imdergoes vary- ing modifications as pregnancy advances. During the first three months the uterus retains its pyriform shape: the cervix is not much altered, and is still conical. Expansion occurs chiefly laterally, so that the uterus appears as a spherical body placed over a cervix almost normal in shape. Later, the uterus becomes expanded in its lower part, and by the fifth month it presents a more or less spherical form, the largest diameter being the vertical. At full term the uterus is described as ovoid or egg-shaped, the dome being at the fundus, the smaller end below. However, Spiegelberg has pointed out that the shape of the uterus during pregnancy is by no means uniform. Many deviations occur. The form depends on the primary shape of the organ, on the woman's position, on the position of the foetus, and on the tension inside the uterus. Changes in the Position of the Uterus.—Owing to increase in weight and size the uterus necessarily undergoes a change of position as gestation advances. It is very generally be- lieved that during the first four weeks of pregnancy the uterus is situated somewhat lower in the pelvis, and some believe that the flattening of the hypogastrium is an important early sign of pregnancy. Tarnier, however, pointed out that this is not constant, and that very early the fundus rises above the level of the pelvic brim, while the cervix is situated at its normal level in the pelvis. At the end of the third month the fundus is a finger's breadth above the pubis; at the end of the fourth this distance has increased to rather more than two inches; at the end of the fifth to four inches; at the end of the sixth month it is on a level with, or a little above, the umbilicus. A month later the fundus is two inches above the umbilicus, and during the eighth and ninth months it continues to rise till its upper limit lies immediately below the ensiform cartilage. The greatest distance of the fundus from the pubis is attained about fourteen days before full time, for during the last two weeks there is com- Diagram to illustrate the growth of the uterus during pregnancy. monly a marked descent, owing to the entrance of the lower pole of the uterus into the pelvis. In miiltiparae the abdominal wall is relaxed, so that the uterus projects farther forward, and the fundus does not rise so high as in primi- parse. In the latter, too, the descent of the lower pole occurs earlier. No doubt the rigidity of the uterus itself in primiparse tends not only to preserve its upward growth, but furthers the early descent of the lower pole. The situation of the impregnated uterus is normally somewhat oblique, being in the ma- jority of cases slightly rotated, so that the anterior surface looks forwards and to the right, and further, it does not occupy exactly the median position, deviating in most women slightly to the right side.