PUERPERIUM, PHYSIOLOGY OF 361 In a normal case, if the patient is hungry at the conclusion of labour, she may have warm milk, soup, gruel, or cocoa. In other cases, she is better left undisturbed in every way till after her sleep, when the same kind of nourish- ment should be given. On the second day she may take such things as custards, soft-boiled eggs, corn-flour, milk-porridge, etc. From the third day onwards a light ordinary diet is indi- cated, including white fish, chicken, lamb or mutton, merging into the diet of daily life. For particular cases, certain modifications are necessary. Thus, after prolonged anaesthesia, no nourishment should be given till its effects have passed off; in fact the case must be treated as a post-operative one. If febrile symptoms develop, a liquid diet will have to be maintained for a longer time. If the patient does not nurse the baby, the diet will not require to be so full as when nursing. Stimulants are best avoided in ordinary cases. The popular super- stition that stout has specific virtues in the formation of milk must go the way of all super- stitions ; the best drink for the lying-in woman to take with her meals is good milk. 4. Regulation of the Bladder and Bowels.—As has been already mentioned, there is a consider- able tendency to retention of urine after labour. This may act injuriously on the bladder itself, and favours post-partum haemorrhage by the tendency to uterine relaxation which it induces. The patient should therefore be encouraged to empty the bladder within eight or ten hours after delivery ; and even if she micturates spon- taneovisly, the doctor or nurse should ascertain, by abdominal palpation, that the bladder is really emptied. There is some divergence of opinion as to the advisability of using the catheter when the patient cannot pass water alone. Varnier considers that it does no harm for the patient to go for twenty-four hours, and that the risk of cystitis precludes the use of the catheter in all but exceptional cases. The opposite view, which I emphatically endorse, is that at the end of twelve hours, if fomentations or change of position have a negative result, the catheter should be passed. If a glass cath- eter be used, it can be boiled every time after use and kept perfectly clean, and there is then no risk at all of cystitis. When the perineum has been torn and sutured, it is better to pass the catheter from the first, and to continue its use for thirty-six hours, to avoid contamination of the wound. It is of the greatest possible importance that when the catheter is used, the vulva should be carefully cleansed with warm water before the introduction of the instrument, and that the catheter should be introduced in full view, without fumbling. It is courting disaster to employ the old plan of feeling under the clothes, sweeping the finger over anus and vagina to the urethral orifice, and then passing the catheter along a contaminated finger; and the inconsistency of passing a carefully sterilised catheter into a urethra whose orifice lies amid unhealthy discharges is an absurdity that needs no demonstration. Evacuation of the Boivels.—If the bowels have been carefully regulated during the latter part of pregnancy, and the rectum emptied by an enema during the first stage of labour, the obstetric field will be clean during delivery, and the daily action of the bowels will probably continue with very little interruption during the puerperium, especially if a proper diet has been given from the first. The old plan of leaving the bowels locked up till the third or fourth day is becoming super- seded by the practice of securing an evacuation within the first thirty-six hours, if there is not a spontaneous action. Castor-oil is one of the most effective aperients; but besides its nause- ous taste, it sometimes causes griping ; and in general the patient may be given the aperient to which she is most accustomed; or a saline laxative such as citrate of magnesia may be administered, followed, if necessary, by a simple enema, or a glycerine injection or suppository. Thereafter a daily evacuation should be se- cured. 5. Nursing and the Care of the Breasts. — Every healthy woman should nurse her own baby, unless important reasons forbid it, both in her own interests and in those of the child ; for lactation favours a healthy involution, and the child has always the best chance of thriving when brought up at the breast. Nursing is contra-indicated when the mother is the subject of chronic exhausting disease, especially tuber- culosis ; in the majority of acute diseases ; when syphilis has been acquired late in pregnancy; when the supply of milk is insufficient; when the breasts are inflamed; in many cases when the nipples are under-developed, inverted, de- pressed, persistently sensitive or sore. In some cases of the latter class the use of a nipple shield will allow the continuance of the function with comfort to the mother and with advantage to the child. The baby should be first put to the breast six to eight hours after labour, and then every four hours during the first few days. Regularity should be practised from the beginning, it is harmful to put the child to the breast every time it cries. Both breasts should be equally used. Sometimes, when the supply of milk is rather short, it is a good plan, when the baby is put to one breast, to place a receiver to the other ; for the stimulation of one nipple usually causes reflexly a flow from both breasts at once, and the milk so collected can be kept warm and used to supplement what the child obtains by suckling. If, on the other hand, the breasts tend to become over-distended, some milk should be drawn off with the breast-pump ; for when much distended, the nipple is relatively shortened;