'—DIAGNOSIS OF PREGNANCY 230 PREGNANCY, PHYSIOLOGY OF from the development of the abdomen and breasts up to the movement and efforts of labour, may be observed when there is no pregnancy, it will be seen that, even by the most skilful and careful observers, errors in diagnosis may occasionally be made. The ridicule to which the author of such a mistake is apt to be subjected, and the loss of professional reputation which may result, would alone render this subject one of the utmost importance to every one engaged in the practice of medicine. There is, however, another and weightier reason. A wrong diagnosis may im- peril the life of the patient. The treatment of certain diseases is very materially modified should pregnancy he also present. In the case of an ovarian tumour, which has been mistaken for a gravid uterus, complications may arise which make its removal both difficult and dangerous; on the other hand, a pregnant uterus which has been diagnosed as an ovarian tumour may be subjected to operation with fatal results, as has unfortunately not infre- quently happened. Whenever, therefore, the question of preg- nancy arises, after the history of the case has been carefully searched, a thorough physical examination of the patient should be made. Mistakes will then be rare. It is also a good rule to follow that, however strong the pre- sumptive evidences of pregnancy may be, in the absence of one or more of the certain signs no absolutely definite opinion should be expre&sed. The lapse of a month, while it can but very rarely do harm, will generally be sufficient to clear up the diagnosis. Pregnancy is revealed by certain symptoms and signs, subjective and objective phenomena. The importance of the latter over the former need hardly be referred to. A patient may not only be mistaken with regard to her sensations, but may purposely make erroneous statements about them. To the physician, therefore, the subjective phenomena afford at the most pre- sumptive evidence only : the certain and infall- ible signs are perceived by his own senses. Symptoms. — Subjective Phenomena of Preg- nancy.— I. Suppression of Menses. — Menstrua- tion as a rule is in abeyance during the whole of pregnancy, and its stoppage is usually the first indication to the patient that she has con- ceived. So constant is this symptom that it forms the most reliable, and therefore generally adopted, datum from which to calculate the onset of labour. It must, however, be remembered : Firstly, pregnancy can occur before puberty, and also after the menopaiise. Secondly, men- struation may continue during the early months of gestation. Only in vei-y rare cases is it met with after the third month, and most commonly it will occur during the first month only. In these cases the amount of blood lost is generally much less than the patient's normal. This, combined with the short duration of the flow, is often sufficient to arouse suspicion. Cases have, however, been recorded where menstruation went on regularly and normally all through the nine months of gestation, and Montgomery and Palmer record cases where it was never present except during pregnancy. Thirdly, that many other conditions—local, constitutional, climatic, and emotional—may cause amenorrhoea. In this connection the emotional or psychical causes of amenorrhoea call for special note. Stoppage of menstruation is not infi'equently met with in newly married women who are not pregnant but who are very desirous of becoming so, and who anxiously look forward to a failure of the menstrual flow as the first intimation that conception has occurred. More often it will be found in another class—generally un- married women who have exposed themselves to the risk of impregnation, and are dreading the result. It is in these two classes of cases that mistakes in diagnosis are most easily made, because not infrequently when one such symp- tom appears, others, also psychical in their cause, are apt to follow, such as morning sick- ness and swelling of the breasts. To sum up, it may be stated that amenorrlioea, occurring in a healthy woman who has been previously regular, and who has been exposed to the chance of impregnation, is strong presumptive evidence of pregnancy, even in the early months; and its value increases, of course, the longer it continues. Confirmatory evidence must always be sought for, in the early months in the condition of the breasts, and in the later months in the presence of the abdominal tumour. An abdominal tumour associated with amenorrhoea, and whose size corresponds to the number of periods passed, should in every case excite the suspicion of pregnancy. II. Morning Sickness.—Nausea and vomiting- are an almost constant symptom in early preg- nancy. It occurs, as a rule, in the morning on first rising from the recumbent posture, and hence is familiarly known as morning sickness. In some cases, however, it may occur only in the afternoon or evening. This sickness is generally most severe in primiparse and in highly strung nervous women. It may come on immediately after conception, more often shows itself for the first time after the first menstrual suppression, and generally ceases during the fourth month. There may be merely a feeling of nausea, but this is usually accompanied by the vomiting of a glairy mucvis. Lasting in most cases only a short time during the day, it causes, as a rule, no impairment of health. In some cases, when it becomes exaggerated and no food is retained, it may constitute a very serious danger {see Pregnancy, Affections and Complications {Digestive Disturbances)). The vomiting of preg- nancy is generally considered to be a reflex disorder reflected from the uterus, and from its