272 PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—AFFECTIONS OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS means of averting the dangers that are immi- nent and allowing the pregnancy to advance to term. According to their relation to the uterine walls, tumours have now been success- fully removed by several skilled operators, and in a large proportion of these without inter- rupting the course of gestation. Peduncular myoma that are growing rapidly, or undergoing change in structure, or causing pain, should always be removed. The pedicle is liable to become twisted. Myotomy in the subserous form has in a few cases been done, but it in- volves much greater risks. When the local or constitutional disturbances are severe and threaten to be serious, by coeli- otomy the condition can be exactly determined. Cases have occurred where a peduncular or otherwise accessible tumour has been found and removed, the urgent symptoms relieved, and gestation not interrupted. In other cases, it proved necessary to remove the uterus with the contained foetus intact, " Miiller's ablation." When uterine conditions preclude pregnancy advancing successfully, this •operation should be performed eai'ly. It has afforded better results in skilled hands than other operations in the later months. When the foetus has reached a viable age, in- duction of labour, with a possible difficult delivery, has not given good results. No advantage is thus to be gained. When there is room to hope for a favourable delivery, natural labour may be waited for. If there is a fair probability of success with forceps they may be cautiously used, but not long persisted in. The case is different from ordinary narrowed brim. The pressure on the resist- ing structures has caused subsequent slough- ing and disintegration with septicaemia. The question of attempting to push an obstructing tumour out of the way has already been dis- cussed. Timiours accessible per vaginam have been removed during labour. Such cases must be rare. In judging of the advisability of making the attempt, it must be remembered that, though successful, and the labour termi- nated, the uterus is left in a condition where metritis and peritonitis are most liable to occur. Peduncular tumours from the interior of the uterus, when found, should be removed. Coisarean section, or Porro's operation, at times comes to be the only resource to save the woman's life. The mortality in the past has been great; but this has been largely due to the fact that, in the majority of cases, the operation has been done only after the patient has been brought into a very unfavour- able state by delay and other unsuccessful attempts at delivery. If performed only as a selective instead of compulsory operation, the chances are greatly improved. Simple Ctesar- ean section, under the circumstances, involves greater risks: from the uterus being left, a subsequent operation might become necessary, and there is a possibility that the woman might again become pregnant. The Porro-Csesarean is in every way preferable. The only condition where it would be impossible is where the cervix is so involved in the morbid growth that a stump cannot be formed. The Csesarean sec- tion alone must then suffice. (See also vol. v. p. 304.) Ovarian Tumours in Pregnancy. — An ovarian tumour constitutes a formidable and, as seen from the large number of cases recently published, a not uncommon complication of pregnancy. Any of the forms of ovarian tumour may be met with, but the relative frequency of the various kinds is somewhat different in pregnancy. The proportion of dermoid tumours, for example, is much greater than in the non - pregnant. According to Olshausen, they constitute about 3| per cent of all cases, while in a series of 700 cases associ- ated with pregnancy the tumour proved to be a simple or multilocular cyst in 477, a dermoid in 165, sarcomatous or carcinomatous in 40, and in 18 a fibroma or solid adenoma. Various reasons have been assigned for the dispropor- tionate number of dermoid tumours ; but what- ever the explanation, the fact is important, as they form a more serious complication of pregnancy than the ordinary cystic forms, owing to their greater liability to cause inflam- matory symptoms. When associated, pregnancy and ovarian tumour react unfavourably on each other, and their reciprocal effects are of clinical import- ance. The presence of the tumour undoubtedly predisposes to premature interruption of the pregnancy, but this tendency has been much exaggerated. At any rate, it is exceptional for abortion to occur if the tumour itself escapes complications. In several cases, incarceration of the uterus has been caused by an ovarian tumour; while in the end of pregnancy the tumour, more particularly when large, may prevent the head from entering the pelvic brim. Even the largest tumours do not seem materially to interfere with the development of the foetus. On the other hand, pregnancy predisposes in a marked degree to the various accidents to which ovarian tumours are liable. For example, tortion of the pedicle cyst, sup- puration, and rupture are relatively much more frequent than apart from pregnancy. It is sometimes asserted that the growth of ovarian tumours is accelerated during gestation, but there is no evidence to show that pregnancy exercises any uniform influence in this direction. Still less do the facts support the view advanced by Wernich that pregnancy causes malignant degeneration in previously benign growths. The symptoms to which an ovarian tumour gives rise in the course of pregnancy are ex- tremely variable, and depend largely on the