PURPURA 443 should be noted that tonsillitis may usher in such an attack, and even when no throat symp- toms are complained of the fauces are often found to be reddened. Endocarditis, pericarditis, and pleurisy have occasionally been noted ; but in these cases there is a previous history of acute rheumatism. (4) Henoch's Purpura.—This variety of pur- pura, which was described by Henoch in 1874, is most common in young people, the majority of cases occurring between the ages of seven and fifteen, and it is rare after thirty. Males seem to be more liable than females. Nothing is known as to its causation. It appears in children of good position, as well as in those who live under unhealthy conditions. In ita main features this form bears a close resemblance to arthritic purpura. The patient complains of vague aches and pains, such as occur at the onset of most specific fevers, with some feeling of illness. Soon one or more joints become painful, with little or no external evi- dence of inflammation. The appearance of slight oedema, the eruption of petechife, and sometimes of ecchymoses and wheals, and per- haps a slight rise of temperature, complete the resemblance to arthritic purpura. After a few days, however, certain special symptoms are added. The child has paroxysms of severe abdominal pain, with obstinate vomit- ing and at first constipation, so that the picture of lead colic is recalled. But the vomit later is found to contain blood, diarrhoea generally sets in, the stools being black with altered blood; epistaxis is not uncommon, and there may be a little oozing from the gums. The pain is un- doubtedly severe, the child cries aloud in the attacks, and there may be some collapse, the face becoming drawn and the pulse quick and small. The pain is generally referred to the umbilical region, and the abdomen is retracted and tender. Occasionally an intense nephritis is added. The urine becomes scanty and con- tains blood and a large quantity of albumin. Death may ensue with all the symptoms of uraemia. There is often slight pyrexia at the height of the attack, but the temperature may be normal throughout the illness. In fatal cases the spleen is found to be swollen, and its enlargement has been detected by percussion during life. Endocarditis and pleurisy have been noted in one case, but their occurrence may be attributed to antecedent rheumatism. As a rule, the articular pains, the petechise, and the gastro-intestinal symptoms appear in the sequence given. Here, as in arthritic purpura, there is a strong tendency to recurrence. After a day or two of the gastro-intestinal symptoms rapid improve- ment sets in, only to be followed in a few days or weeks by a repetition of the attack. Some- times a series of such attacks will prolong the illness into several months. Rarely an interval of many months elapses between attacks. Ulti- mate recovery may be expected as a rule, but it must be remembered that the nephritis may prove fatal, and that in one recorded case death occurred from perforation of the stomach on the fourth day of a second attack. (5) Febrile Purpura.—This form is occasion- ally seen in young children; it is most common in adolescents, and it is rare after the age of thirty. Males seem to be more affected than females. As with the other forms of purpura, no constant factor can be detected in the history of the patient or of his family. As a rule, the sudden appearance of petechife, or of epistaxis, or of oozing from the gums, brings the patient under observation. On in- quiring it is sometimes found that for a few weeks, or even months, the patient has not been in good health ; pallor, loss of appetite, and listlessness being noticeable. Whether such a history is given or not, it will generally be seen that the patient is already extremely pale. In rare instances the patient has been previously subject to epistaxis, and he may even have noticed a petechial eruption on a small scale on one or two occasions in the previous year. Sometimes, however, the onset is as sudden as in any specific fever. For example, a telegraph boy, whose history and appearance testified to perfect health, was seized with vomiting and malaise at midday. At 4 p.m. he was obliged to take to his bed. On the next day, without any fresh symptoms, he was unfit to get up. On the following day petechia; appeared, and death took place in twelve days from the onset. Whether the onset is sudden or gradual, after the appearance of the first ha3morrhagic symptom the illness proceeds rapidly and uniformly to a fatal end. The petechia; appear in crops all over the body, thickly or thinly, showing no characteristic distribution. Ecchymoses are common. Of frequent occurrence are tender, bluish-red raised patches, an inch or more in diameter, with a zone of bruising around. On such a patch a bulla containing clear or blood- stained serum is often developed, and this on breaking gives rise to an ulcer from which a thin sanguineous fluid exudes. Such an ulcer may grow deeper by progressive necrosis in spite of all bactericidal treatment. The mouth is always aff'ected in some degree. Petechise can always be seen, and they are here apt to give rise to small grey-capped ulcers. Large sloughy patches are generally found inside the cheeks, and gangrene of the gums at one or more spots is a common occurrence. Neither of these phenomena can be attributed to previous hsemorrhage. Still less can such an explanation be offered as regards a progres- sive uncontrollable sloughing of one or both tonsils which is not uncommonly observed. Gangrenous ulceration has been known to aff'ect soft palate, epiglottis, and arytenoid folds.