211 POST-MORTEM METHODS B.P.; picro - carmine (Eanvier's); Ehrlich's hsematoxylin; Farrant's glycerine mounting fluid; eosine in water (0-5 per cent); absolute alcohol; clove oil; Canada balsam dissolved in benzole; two needles in handles. Clean slides and cover-glasses. Other reagents or apparatus will be mentioned as they are required. A tissue can be examined under the micro- scope when a thin layer of it or its elements, penetrable by reflected light, is obtained. Ex- amination of the surface of an object, using direct illumination without the mirror, is seldom had recourse to in pathology. A thin layer may be secured by scraping the cut surface, or teasing out a small portion of the tissue with needles, but the most common pro- cedure is to cut thin sections, either by freezing or embedding methods, and subsequently to stain them by suitable reagents which accentu- ate their component parts. Numerous methods of attaining this end have been recommended, but only such as are in common use, and have been thoroughly tested, can be described here. For others the reader is referred to pathological text-books, such as those by Sims Woodhead, Mallory and Wright, or to the Pathologist's Vade-mecum, by Lee. Examination of Scrapings of Fresh Tissues.— This method has now gone out of fashion, but as it gives good results, and as it is easily carried out, requiring no special apparatus, it merits notice. Make a fresh cut into the tissue or organ, squeeze out excess of blood if necessary, and with the edge of a knife scrape off" some of the fluid from its surface. Transfer a little of this "tissue-juice" to a clean slide and mix with a drop or two of fresh Ranvier's picro-carmine. Gently lower a clean cover-glass on to the mixture, and let it sink by its own weight so as to produce a thin transparent layer of the fluid. Allow the stain to act for a few minutes and then examine. Nuclei of cells are stained with the carmine, protoplasm in varying shades of brown and yellow. If after five or ten minutes the nuclei are not clearly stained, remove excess of fluid from the slide with bibulous paper, and paint a thin layer of vaseline round the cover-glass to retard evaporation. Examine again in an hour. No mounting medium is required, as the prepara- tion is not permanent. No more recent method gives a better idea of the natural appearance of the component cells of tumours or other tissues. Examination of Sections of Tissues.—To ob- tain the best and most permanent results the tissue must be "fixed" before sections are made, although sections sufficiently good for diag- nostic purposes may be got by cutting thin sections of fresh tissues with the freezing micro- tome, floating these on to a slide, staining for five to fifteen minutes in picro-carmine or in logwood, and mounting in Farrant's glycerine medium. The ordinary stages in the preparation of per- manent sections are—1. Fixation; 2. Harden- ing, embedding, and section-cutting ; 3. Stain- ing and mounting of sections. Several alterna- tive methods of carrying these out have to be described:— 1. Fixation of Tissues.—A "fixative" is a reagent which penetrates and kills a tissue quickly, preserves the tissue-elements, and par- ticularly the nuclei, in the condition in which they are at the moment when the reagent acts upon them. For most purposes one may make a choice of four reagents—(a) formaldehyde, (h) formal- dehyde and alcohol, (c) alcohol, (d) corrosive sublimate. (a) Formaldehyde, or formic aldehyde, is sold in a standard solution of 40 per cent strength in water. A proprietary preparation of this strength is on the market, under the name of " Formalin"; it costs more than the other solution, but its action is identical. A further dilution of 5 to 10 per cent—i.e. 2 to 4 per cent of the gas—of this standard solution is used for fixation of tissues, and tissues so fixed may be cut forthwith with the freezing microtome or after embedding. Small pieces of tissue up to one-sixth of an inch in thickness are sufficiently fixed in three to six hours. The process may be greatly accelerated by gently heating to blood tempera- ture. Formaldehyde also hardens tissues, making albuminous bodies firm, but not precipitating them. All tissues save those in which micro-organisms are to be demonstrated may be fixed with this reagent. (b) Alcohol.—Except for fat-containing tissues this is the most useful general fixative, and gives specially good results where logwood is used for staining, or whei'e bacteria are to be demonstrated. Pieces of tissue not thicker than one-sixth of an inch, and of an area not greater than three- quarters of an inch, are placed in large excess of 70 to 80 per cent alcohol for a few hours, and then transferred to 93 to 95 per cent alcohol for at least two days. The tissue should be supported in the upper part of the alcohol by means of cotton-wool. It has the additional advantage of hardening the tissue. Ordinary methylated spirit is of a strength of 93 to 95 per cent, and acts as well as pure alcohol. (c) Formaldehyde {Formic Aldehyde) and Alcohol.—-Tenjper cent of the solution of formalde- hyde or " formalin " is added to absolute alcohol or methylated spirit. Pieces of tissue of the size already mentioned are fixed in this medium