75 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES in phloridzin poisoning, unless it is formed from fats. That it is not all formed from proteins is shown by the fact that the sugar which appears is sometimes greater than could be produced by the proteins broken down, as indicated by the output of nitrogen (p. 76). That proteins are a source of sugary sub- stances is shown by the amount of sugar which is produced by an animal rendered diabetic by removal of its pancreas and fed exclusively on jjroteins. It is therefore probable that in star- vation the proteins of the body are broken down and their non-nitrogenous part changed to sugar. But not only does the liver manufacture sugar for the tissues in starvation, but, when the supply of sugar is in excess of the demands of the tissues, it stores it as a form of starch— glycogen (see p. 54)—and gives it out as sugar as that substance is required. On a carbo- hydrate diet the accumulation of glycogen in the liver is very great; but even on a protein diet, in dogs at least, a smaller accumulation takes place. The observation that the various monosaccharids are all stored as the same form of glycogen shows that they must first be assimi- lated by the liver protoplasm and then converted to glycogen, the process being one of synthesis. The way in which glycogen is again changed to sugar is doubtful. The fact that the liver, after treatment with alcohol, can change glycogen to glucose, has induced some physiologists to believe that it is by an enzyme that this con- version goes on during life. But it has been shown (1) that the injection of methylene blue, which poisons protoplasm but does not inter- fere with the action of enzymes, checks the con- version, and (2) that stimulating the splanchnic nerves going to the liver increases the conversion of glycogen without increasing the amylolytic enzyme in the liver and blood. It is therefore probable that the conversion results from chemical changes in the protoplasm which are controlled by the nerves of the liver. If more sugar is taken than the liver can deal with, it passes on into the general circula- tion, and is excreted in the urine. Every individual has a certain power of oxidising and storing sugar, and most persons can dispose of about 200 grms. at a time. But the carbo- hydrate capacity varies greatly, and even in the same individual it is diiferent under different conditions. When the glycogen stored in the liver is changed to glucose more quickly than is required by the tissues, the glucose may be to a certain extent again stored in the muscles as glycogen, or it may accumulate in the blood and be excreted in the urine (glycosuria). This condition is seen when the posterior part of the floor of the fourth ventricle in a rabbit is punctured. If glycogen be abundant in the liver, glycosuria results, the stimulation of the nervous system producing a too rapid conversion of the glycogen. Another way in which sugar may be made to appear in the urine is by injecting phloridzin. Under the influence of this drug the sugar in the blood is not increased. It must be con- cluded that it acts by causing the kidneys to excrete glucose too rapidly, so that it is not available for the tissues. But even when carbo- hydrates are withheld and cleared out of the body, phloridzin causes glycosuria. Hence the kidneys must be made to form glucose from the protein of the blood plasma. The injection of large doses of extract of the suprarenal bodies causes a glycosuria with an increase of sugar in the blood; but so far it is not known whether the condition is one of increased production or of diminished utilisation of sugar (p. 82). Removal of the pancreas also causes glycsemia and glycosuria (p. 84). 2. Relation to Fats.—Although the fats are not carried directly to the liver, as are pro- teins and carbohydrates, they are stored in large amounts in the liver of some animals—e.g. the cod among fishes and the cat among mammals. Animals which have little power of storing fat throughout the muscles and other tissues generally, seem to have a marked capacity for accumulating it in the liver. Even in starvation the fats do not disappear from the liver, and throughout all conditions of life a fairly constant amount of lecithin, a phos- phorus and nitrogen containing fat {see vol. vii. p. 517), is present in the liver cells. Lecithin, in the yolk of the egg, is an intermediate stage in the formation of the more complex nucleins of living cells, and the formation of lecithin in the liver by the synthesis of glycerin, fatty acids, phosphoric acid, and cholin is probably a first step in the construction of these nucleins. If this be so, the fat of the liver must play an important part in retaining and fixing phosphorus in the body. 3. Relation to Proteins. — Along with the intestinal wall, the liver regulates the supply of proteins to the body. A study of the chemical changes in muscle has shown that the waste of protein is normally small in amount, and that a great part of the nitrogen is capable of being used again if a supjily of oxygen and carbonaceous material is forth- coming (see vol. vii. p. 514). Hence the demand for nitrogen in the muscles is small, and for this reason, apparently, any excess of protein in the food is decomposed, either by trypsin and erepsin or by the intestinal wall, into simple nitrogenous compounds, which are changed into urea in the liver. Urea, the chief waste substance excreted in the urine, is the bi-amide of carbonic acid. O 0 II " H—0—C—0—H H/\h