PLAGUE 128 with disinfectants, such as Jeye's fluid (2 oz. to 1 gallon of water). Rat runs must be followed, dug up, and obliterated. Broken glass, tar, and crude carbolic acid (Calvert's No. 4) are useful in this connection. Basements of houses, and the floors of stores of grain and forage, should be concreted and made as rat-proof as possible. All out-buildings, cellars, etc., should be lime- washed (unslaked lime, J lb. to 3 gallons of water), and the opportunity should be seized of requesting the landlord, or by serving him with the proper notices, to make any necessary altera- tions to the house to put it in a satisfactory sanitary condition. As regards disinfection of native huts in South Africa, India, and elsewhere, mud floors should be disinfected with phenyle (1 to 50) or acid corrosive sublimate (HgCIg 1 part, strong HCl 2 parts, water to 500 parts). In many cases it is possible to burn down the huts. Impermeable floors should be disinfected with phenyle (1 to 100) or acid perchloride of mercury (1 to 1000). Disinfection of clothes must be effected by steam where possible, or by destroying them by fire if worthless. If this cannot be done they should be fumigated, boiled, immersed in dis- infectants, exposed to simlight, or disinfected by the best method available. Disinfection of ships is best effected by sulphur fumigation, as described under "de- struction of rats on board ship" (p. 129). In- fected quarters should be fumigated, and the woodwork washed down with acid corrosive sublimate solution, the bedding, etc., being re- moved, if possible, to a steam disinfector. Disposal of the Dead.—If death occurs at home, the body must be at once handed over to the plague authorities, wrapped by them in a sheet soaked in corrosive sublimate, placed in a coffin, screwed down, and conveyed to the place of burial, which must be adjacent to the plague hospital. Wakes nnist be strictly prohibited, and the aid of the Roman Catholic clergy should be sought for this purpose. Cremation, when possible, should be employed. Disposal of Excreta and Discharges.—These should be received into 5 per cent carbolic acid solution and disposed of by burning in an in- cinerator, or by heating them to 100° C. in a large iron pot. After complete chemical disin- fection they may be disposed of by burial or by the sewerage system. {g) Inspection of Travellers hy Rail.—This has been conducted in many places abroad, and no one has been permitted to travel imtil they had received a certificate that they presented no signs of plague. It has prevented many infected natives in India from travelling. In this country some system of notification of departure from an infected locality might perhaps be usefully employed, and sent to the local authority at the passenger's destination. (3) Destruction of Bats.—(a) On land ; (b) On board ship. (a) On Land.—^The various methods of clear- ing premises of rats, such as employing pro- fessional rat-catchers with ferrets and dogs, or laying down poison and traps, must be adopted. It must be remembered that ferrets are liable to contract plague. Keeping a mongoose on the premises has been highly recommended, especially in places where the mongoose cannot readily escape. Poisoned rats cause a certain amount of nuisance, but the smell can be traced, and by taking up the floors and so forth their haunts can be discovered and the rat runs obliterated. When premises have been cleared of rats the necessary steps must be taken to prevent them gaining entrance again, by stop- ping up or wiring any apertures which might serve as a run, and by concreting where neces- sary, especially in stores and basements. Doors must be made to fit accurately, and to be bound in iron at the bottom if possible, to prevent rats gnawing their road in. The process there- fore consists of two actions : (1) a simultaneous campaign against rats all over a town; (2) making premises rat-proof, after they have been cleared of rodents. Unless the public take the matter up little can be done. Danysz's Method.—J. Danysz, chef de labora- toire a I'lnstitut Pasteur, has exalted the virulence of an organism of the coli group, which, under certain conditions, causes among rats and mice an epidemic disease which is not transmissible to man. This organism, morpho- logically identical with the Bacillus typhi murium (Loffler) and with Gaetner's bacillus, can be made pathogenic for all varieties of rats with some difficulty. Danysz has described the method by which he has done this in the Annales de I'lnstitut Pasteur for April 1900, one feature being the growth of the culture in col- lodion capsules in the peritoneal cavity of the species of rat whose extermination is being sought. The practical application of Danysz's virus is to spread growths of the bacillus on bread and to place it where rats frequent. An epidemic is claimed to be set up, which, after tlaree or four passages through these rodents, finally dies out. The method has its limitations, and has been of little value in some places where it has been employed. Danysz recommends that it should be used in spring and autumn, so that the young rats, which are more suscep- tible, should be destroyed. It is also important to keep on laying down fresh cultures to replace those whose virulence has died out. Danysz is of opinion that by systematic attack for a season or two on the young susceptible rats the complete extirpation of these animals may be secured. Klein and Williams, working on this bacillus both in the laboratory and on a large scale, arrived at negative conclusions as