293 PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—HEMORRHAGE certain that the case is not one of placenta prsevia. Treatment.—The first point to recognise with regard to the treatment of placenta prsevia is that, immediately the condition is recognised, steps must be taken with the view of ending the pregnancy, whether the bleeding has temporarily ceased or not. The only excep- tion which may be made to this rule, is in those Fig. 4.—ilarginal placenta prsevia. (Ahlfeld.) cases in which the patient is in such circum- stances that, if the bleeding restarts, she can be immediately treated. Many cases have been lost because, on the arrival of the doctor, the bleeding was found to have ceased, and consequently nothing was done, with the result that the bleeding recurred, with fatal consequences. As in accidental hsemorrhage, the line of treatment adopted depends to a very great extent upon whether the patient is in labour or not. If she is in labour, the treatment of the case is comparatively simple, both because uterine contractions are present, and also because the fact that haemorrhage did not occur until the patient came into labour, shows that the placenta is not very close to the os. Again, as in accidental hsemorrhage, the objects of our treatment are to check the bleeding and to bring on labour gradually. These objects are best attained by the method introduced by Braxton Hicks. This consists in turning the child by podalic version into a breech presentation, rupturing the membranes, and drawing down a foot. The remainder of the expulsion of the foetus is then left to nature. The result of this treatment is that the hsemor- rhage is checked, owing to the pressure of the breech and subsequently of the body of the child against the placenta, while the rupture of the membranes and the partial extraction of the foetus ensure the onset of labour. If there is any return of the bleeding, a little traction on the foot will drag more of the breech downwards, and so increase the pressure upon the placenta. If, as may happen in very rare cases, labour pains do not come on within twelve hours, or if, even before that time— the foetus being dead—signs of decomposition set in, delivery must be accomplished by means of gentle traction upon the foot. The method of performing bi-polar version, which the author prefers, differs somewhat from the more classical method of Braxton Hicks, and so a short description of it may not be out of place. The operation is carried out as follows :—Place the patient in the cross-bed position, and under an anaesthetic, vxnless her condition forbids the use of one. Ascertain the exact position of the foetus by abdominal palpation, and then by external version turn the foetus so that it lies directly transversely—its head at one side of the uterus, its breech at the opposite, and its back uppermost. By this means the legs of the child are brought to lie in the region of the OS internum. This is the first part of the operation. The second part is commenced by washing the external genitals thoroughly and douching out the vagina. Then as much of the hand as is necessary is passed into the vagina, and two fingers introduced into the cervix. If the placenta is central, the fingers must be passed through it, and the foot sub- sequently brought down through the opening thus made. By firm external pressure on the breech with the other hand, the feet are made to descend still farther, and then one of them can be seized between the fingers in the uterus. As the cervical canal is usually very small, the foot must be drawn down in such a manner as to take up the least room, i.e. by bringing the toes first and the rest of the foot in an extended position. In some cases it may happen that the os, which is large enough to admit two fingers by themselves, or a foot by itself, will not allow the three to come down together. In such a case the following manoeuvre is some- times successful. With the fingers passed through the cervix, draw the tips of the toes downwards through the inner os as far as possible. Next remove the fingers and keep the foot in the same position by means of external pressure upon the breech. Then, with the fingers in the vagina, encircle the cervix and push it up gently over the toes, while at the same time the external hand presses the breech down. By this means half of the foot is brought outside the os externum, and is caught by the fingers. A little traction then