152 PLEURA, AFFECTIONS OF THE—SURGICAL degree of lung recession and to rake out fibrin- ous coagula. At this stage the propriety of washing out the cavity with normal saline solution at 100° Fahr., or boracic acid solution, or other non- poisonous antiseptic, may be considered. The frequent sudden fatalities resulting from such lavage, and the clinical observation that even the most putrid dischai-ges become sweet in a few days by thorough drainage, justify a con- demnation of this practice as a routine measure. If ever euiployed, the irrigating funnel and tube should be used instead of a syringe, and the lotion allowed to flow into the cavity in the gentlest stream, a tube of larger calibre having been inserted to serve as an outflow, in order that no compression of the lung by the irrigat- ing fluid may take place. No sutures are required for the wound. The permanent drain tube is placed in position and lightly packed around with iodoform or cyanide gauze, a copious absorbent pad of wood- wool tissue is placed over the gauze, and a binder or many-tailed bandage is applied over all. Drainage tubes of metal, vulcanite, glass, or rubber with a metallic core have been advo- cated ; but a simple rubber tube, one-third or one-half inch in diameter, and furnished with a sheet-rubber or gutta-percha shield to prevent it slipping into the cavity, answers all purposes. Such a tube should have no lateral perforations, save one near the free end, and it should pro- ject about one inch into the pleural cavity. There is no advantage in long tubes ; but when much flocculent material mingles with the pus, two tubes of slightly different lengths, arranged parallel, may occasionally obviate blocking. Bilateral empyema should be approached with caution, for, if extensive pleural adhesions have not formed, it will not be safe to open both pleurse at the same time. One side should be aspirated and the other incised. After an interval of a week or more the aspir- ated side may be freely opened also. Treatment after Operation.—The dressings may be changed twice daily for a few days, and later once a day will suffice. The tube, if patent, need not be disturbed for a week. The time at which it can be permanently dispensed with varies with the amount and character of the discharge. One week in children and three weeks in adults may be regarded as minimal. A safer guide is the amount of the discharge; when this declines to half an ounce or less, and becomes almost serous in kind, the tube may be discarded. Godlee's plan of passing a railroad catheter every third day, for a short time there- after, to prevent accumidation, may be borne in mind. The patient may sit up, if strong enough, in a week or ten days after operation; and may get out of doors in three weeks, provided there is no fever. Causes of Death in Empyema.—Death may result from increasing embarrassment of breath- ing in the unrelieved cases. In connection with anaesthesia, operations, or lavage, the catas- trophic deaths have already been alluded to. In chronic cases with discharge, septic poisoning, pyaemia with visceral abscesses, hectic fever, amyloid disease, and recurrent haemorrhages from the giving way of pleural adhesions, may all account for fatal terminations. Prognosis is very favourable in the acute empyema of children, in whom the pneumono- coccal form is so common. In adults this form is also very hopeful, if treated early. The streptococcal, staphylococcal, and saprogenic forms are more dangerous; but often do well, if uncomplicated by visceral disease or general septic states. The tubercular variety is practic- ally incurable, in so far as cessation of discharge is concerned, but the fatal issue may be delayed for months or years. As to the relative frequency of these forms, Netter's analysis of 110 cases showed—32 of the pneumonococcal; 51 of the streptococcal, often combined with the staphylococcal; 15 of the saprogenic ; and 12 of the tubercidar. Thoracoplasty. — Estldnder^s Operation — Thorax Resection.—Five factors are concerned in the obliteration of the empyema cavity—viz. the expansion of the lung, adhesions between the pleural layers, contraction of the granulation tissue tending to draw the lung and chest wall together, the elevation of the diaphragm, and the falling in of the ribs from atmospheric pressure. To favour the last of these, in intractable cases, Estliinder devised the operation of resecting portions of those ribs that bound the cavity. The number and length of the segments requiring removal are determined by flexible probes passed through the sinus, and during the operation by the finger itself. One long incision over the central rib will admit of three ribs being excised ; but, where a larger number of ribs is condemned, several incisions may be needed, or, better, a large flap of the thoracic skin and muscles may be turned up. The ribs are subperiosteally excised for the required distance, and the flap or wound edges sutured, leaving ample drainage open- ings for tubes or gauze tampons. Schede suggested an actual " thorax resection." Turn- ing up a large musculo-cutaneous flap, with its base upwards, and extending from the fourth rib in front down to the tenth rib in the axillary line, and up along the vertebral border of the scapula, Schede resects the ribs from their tubercles to the costo-chondral junctions. Though the ribs are subperiosteally excised to save haemorrhage, the periosteum is subsequently excised together with the intercostal muscles and the thickened parietal pleura, forming the whole outer wall of the cavity. He then re- places the scapula and flap, which have mean-