vol. VIII 1 ENCYCLOPEDIA AND DICTIONAKY OF MEDICINE AND SUKGEKY Physiologry. PART II.—Nutrition of the Tissues Section V.—Manner in which Nourishment IS SENT TO THE TISSUES : — I. Blood and Lymph .... 1 II. The Circulatory System— General Arrangement . . .10 Circulation through the Heart. . 11 Circulation in the Blood and Lymph Vessels 23 Section VI.—Supply op Nourishing Material to Blood and Lymph, and Elimination op Waste Matter from them :— I. Respiration— External Respiration . . .38 Internal Respiration ... 48 Voice ...... 50 II. Food and its Digestion and Utilisation— Food 52 Digestion . . . . .56 Absorption . . . . .71 Fate of Food Absorbed . . .72 i. Heat Production and Tempera- ture Regulation . . .72 ii. Storage of Surplus Food . . 74 iii. Hepatic Metabolism ... 74 iv. General Metabolism ... 76 V. Dietetics ..... 78 Section VII.—Internal Secretions or Hormones—Toxic Action and Im- munity ...... 82 Section VIII.—Excretion :— I. Renal Excretion ... 86 II. Cutaneous Excretion . . 91 Section V.—Fluids Bathing the Tissue Blood and Lymph.—The blood carries the neces- sary nourishment to the tissues and receives their waste products. But it is enclosed in a closed system of vessels, and does not come into direct relationship with the cells. Outside the blood-vessels, and bathing the cells, is the lymph which plays the part of middleman between the blood and the tissues, receiving nourishment from the former for the latter, and passing the waste from the latter into the former. A. Blood The various physical, chemical, and histological characters of blood must he practically investigated. I. General Characters Colour.—Blood changes its colour from purple to cinnabar red on shaking with air, showing that the pigment of the blood may exist in two conditions. Elements of Blood.— Microscopic examination shows that blood is composed of a clear fluid (Liquor Sanguinis or plasma) in which float myriads of small disc-like yellowish-red cells (Erythrocytes), and a smaller number of greyish cells (Leucocytes), and certain more minute grey particles (Blood Platelets). The opacity of blood is due to the erythrocytes, and when the pigment is dissolved out of them by water, and they are rendered transparent, the blood as a whole becomes transparent and is said to be "laked." The specific gravity is about 1055. It may be estimated by finding the specific gravity of a sodium sulphate solu- tion in which a drop of blood neither sinks nor floats. Taste and smell are characteristic, and must be experienced. Reaction.—Blood is alkaline, and the degree of alkalinity is very constant in health. It is equivalent to about 0'3 per cent of Na.jCOj. It is increased during digestion and diminished after muscular exercise. The cells of the blood constitute about 33 per cent of its weight, and the total solids of the blood are about 20 per cent.