PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—AFFECTIONS OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS 269 pulling up the uterus, is undoubtedly the pre- ferable operation, and one that may not inter- rupt the pregnancy. This has been done eleven times by Jacobs, surely in some cases unneces- sarily, and once by Murdoch Cameron of Glasgow, and others. But cases requiring such a proceeding must be very rare. Sacculation of the Gravid Uterus.—Partial Retroversion or Flexion. — In the advanced months of pregnancy, cases are at rare times met with where the cervix uteri is displaced upwards close behind or above the symphysis, difficult to reach, and the pelvis occupied by a tumour which careful examination proves to be the posterior uterine wall containing the presenting part of the foetus, whilst above the uterine body and contents form a well-marked abdominal tumour. The condition can be realised by supposing a retroverted pregnant uterus which has been but partially righted, the cervix high up behind the pubis, the lower part of the posterior wall remaining in its abnormal position, whilst the anterior wall has been developed and stretched sufficiently to allow the upper pole of the foetal body to rise into the abdomen. Such, too, is the probable origin, in some cases, of the condition. It has, however, been found associated with an ovarian tumour (Croom), and with fibroid tumours of the uterus (Dlihrssen and Munro Kerr). Scanzoni has observed it along with pendulous abdomen, to which con- dition he ascribes it. Pressure symptoms are liable to be trouble- some. Barnes reports a case where the ureters became involved. Spontaneous rectification has been observed before and also during labour. The pelvic tumour has also been successfully pushed up, and the cervix brought to its normal position, during gestation. Labour may not ensue till full term, but is liable to be premature. An analogous condition affecting the anterior wall may be met with. The cervix is then far back and drawn upwards—to be reached only by introduction of the hand into the vagina under anaesthesia. Such cases have been mis- taken for pathological occlusion of the os, and the cervix incised. If reduction has not been effected before labour sets in, the first stage is certain to be protracted. The uterine force cannot act directly on the OS uteri. The presenting part should be pushed up, artificial dilatation of the os used, and the anterior lip drawn forward or the posterior pushed back, according to the condi- tion. Version or the forceps may be employed, careful support being given to the cervix during extraction. Pathological Changes Cancer of the Uterus and Pregnancy.— During the child-bearing period, cancer of the body of the uterus is very rare : pregnancy in this condition probably never occurs. If it did, an early abortion would almost certainly result, and would likely be unrecognised, as the pain and hcemorrhage would be assigned to the pre- existing disease, and the evidence of the con- ception lost in the discharges. The same, in all probability, often happens when the cervix alone is involved. But that pregnancy may occur under this condition and advance to the fall term there is but too ample evidence. To the medical attendant, a case of pregnancy complicated by carcinoma of the cervix uteri must be throughout a cause of anxiety, so numerous are the risks, and uncertain the course of gestation and progress of the disease. At the same time, the conditions and results in different cases are so varied, that it is difficult to arrive at any reliable conclusions to guide in determining what in a special case will be best for the patient. An analysis of a large number of cases is the only reliable aid. This will be found in a valuable paper by G. Ernest Herman in the London Obstetrical Transactions, vol. XX. p. 191, 1878. Since it was written, however, the advance of surgical technique and skill has modified some of the conclusions arrived at. It is now generally accepted that pregnancy stimulates the activity of the morbid growth, though at one time the opposite was believed. Whether the pregnant state, apart from any injuriovis effect of labour, hastens or retards the general constitutional changes which directly lead to a fatal issue, has not been determined. Certainly the presumption is that the prognosis would be more favourable without the preg- nancy, and not made worse by the gestation being ended. The improvement that has often been observed after the puerperium is past supports this view. The frequency of abortions and of still births is increased, and labour is more apt to be pre- mature ; the prospects of the child are therefore considerably lessened. These considerations must have weight in considering, in a case, the advisability of artificially emptying the uterus. In the early months of pregnancy, and in an early stage of the disease, where one otherwise would recommend hysterectomy, the existence of the pregnancy should be no barrier to the operation. Delay is dangerous, as by the time the child is viable, the disease, as has happened, may have so advanced as to contra-indicate any attempt at removal of the organ. But in the later months, if the child has nearly reached a viable age, and hysterectomy is deemed suitable, the mother should take the risk of a short delay rather than wholly destroy the chances of the child. Where hysterectomy is inadvisable, or the consent of patient and friends is refused, it may