RHEUMATISM—RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS 561 Prolonged mental strain, long anxiety, and worry are very frequently present in the history of these cases, in association with other debili- tating conditions. In some cases the history of mental worry or anxiety seems the most prominent fact in the history, and stands out alone, or as the chief factor which can be made out. As a rule, the depressing mental conditions have been of long standing, going on for months or even years, but there is some evidence that a severe shock may be followed quickly by joint changes. The writer has notes of a case in a woman of thirty-five, in whom rheumatoid arthritis in a severe form followed immediately on the shock occasioned by the sudden death of her twin children. Cases of a like nature have been recorded by others. Climate probably has some influence on the production of this complaint, as it undoubtedly has upon its course. Charcot considered damp cold to be one of the most potent factors. Bannatyne states that the disease is more common in the humid air of Ireland than in England ; Adams that it is prevalent in Holland ; and Stewart that it is very rare in the dry climate of Canada. In a certain number of cases the disease is referred to a definite ex- posure to cold or damp, or both, such as sleeping in a damp bed, or getting wet and sitting in damp clothes. The combination of damp, cold, a low elevation, and low average of bright sim- shine appears to be favourable to its develop- ment—in other words, the climate least likely to lead to good general health and a high vitality of the tissues. The influence of traumatic injury to joints has been variously estimated by writers. It is generally accepted as true that in the mon- articular form previous injury may determine the localisation of the affection, even when the injury has occurred long before the onset of the joint changes. It is also true that in cases of moderate generalised rheumatoid arthritis an injury may greatly increase the activity of the disease in the injured joint, which may quickly become completely crippled, although the activity of the joint aff'ection generally is not increased. Cases are recorded where injury to one joint was apparently followed by generalised rheu- matoid arthritis. The evidence in those cases available for reference is not absolutely con- vincing, and in some the length of time which had elapsed between the injury and the onset of the generalised disease was so great that the influence of the injury appears somewhat doubtful. There is some evidence that joints which have previously been attacked by the inflammatory processes of acute rheumatism are prone to be affected later by rheumatoid arthritis. Luff" states that acute rheumatism is an undoubted predisposing cause of this disease. Modern VOT,. VTII views as to the pathology of these afi^ections tend to minimise rather than to accentuate the points of difference between them. If acute rheumatism, and certain forms at least of rheu- matoid arthritis, have a bacterial origin, as some believe, it is possible that the tissues of a joint already damaged by one such infection may readily become a nidus in which other organisms can flourish. It is certain that the changes characteristic of chronic rheumatoid arthritis may supervene in other chronically inflamed joints, i.e. those of gout or of gonorrhcBa. A low diet, deficient in nutritive elements, may be an important element in the causation of rheumatoid arthritis. Alcohol has not the same directly deleterious effect on these patients as on the suff"erers fi'om gout. Clinical Characters of Subacute and Chronic Polyarticular Rheumatoid Arthritis.—The on- set is insidious and difficult to date from the accounts given by patients. Premonitory symptoms have been described by some writers, such as abnormal sensations in the extremities, tingling, pins and needles, and numbness, especially on waking from sleep. These sensations are frequently complained of early, but examination shows that some joints are already aff"ected, and pain and enlargement of joints are the earliest distinctive symptoms. The joints most liable to attack are those of the hands, and, broadly speaking, the disease assumes a symmetrical arrangement, attacking corresponding joints on the two sides, and tending to advance from the extremities to- wards the trunk. The number of joints affected varies greatly, and there appears to be a process of selection which may be different in diflferent cases, but is usually the same on the two sides of the body. The joints commonly attacked are the interphalangeal joints of the hands, or some of them, the metacarpo-phalangeal joints, the wrist, elbow, and shoulder. In the lower extremities the knee is very frequently attacked, also the ankle, the small joints of the foot, and the hip. The temporo-niaxillary joint is fre- quently affected—a fact which is valuable in diagnosis, and serves to distinguish this from other forms of arthritis, except that which is the result of gonorrhoeal infection. Involve- ment of the joints of the vertebrae occurs, especially of the occipito-atloid joint, resulting in stifibess or definite limitation of nodding or rotatory movements of the head. The pain due to involvement of the spine may be very severe. Although marked symmetry of arrangement is the rule, and is a characteristic feature of the disease, it is by no means invariable. The joints on one side of the body may show evidence of advanced changes, while those on the other side are only slightly affected, and there are also exceptions to the rule that the disease tends 36