RAYNAUD'S DISEASE 472 Morvan's disease, whilst in Eaynaud's disease they are rare. Frost-bite may at first sight be difficult to distinguish from Raynaud's disease, all the more so since the latter condition is often precipitated by cold. A symmetrical distribution, however, is against frost-bite, and a history of previous attacks at a time of year when there was no frost, and especially the paroxysmal nature of the symptoms, would indicate Raynaud's disease. In chronic ergotism (an exceedingly rare affec- tion) the condition is usually epidemic, and there is a history of contamination of rye bread. Senile gangrene usually affects the whole foot, and is rarely symmetrical, or attacking indi- vidual toes, whilst Raynaud's disease quite as often affects the upper as the lower extremities, is more superficial as a rule, and generally affords a history of previous attacks. Diabetic gangrene is generally of the moist variety, and is associated with endarteritis, neur- itis, and glycosuria. Leprosy, beri-beri, congenital cyanosis, and hysterical blue oedema need only to be mentioned to be at once distinguished from Raynaud's disease. Prognosis.—Raynaud's disease is not of itself dangerous, nor does it shorten life. The par- oxysms, however, tend to recur again and again, especially in cases of local cyanosis. Cases which go on to gangrene tend ultimately to pass off. The prognosis in individual cases is difficult, inasmuch as slight cases may afterwards go on to gangrene, whereas threatened gangrene may become arrested. Treatment.—Little can be done beyond the avoidance of cold and keeping the extremities warm during the attack. The patient should wear warm woollen gloves, not too tight. During a paroxysm the pain may require morphia. Other drugs, such as atropin, chloral, or the nitrites, have proved of little avail. Raynaud recommended galvanism to the spine, and ob- tained encouraging results in certain cases. Barlow advocates local galvanism, the limb being immersed meanwhile in salt water, into which one electrode is led, the other being applied higher up the limb. Gentle massage between the paroxysms is to be recommended. Counter-irritant applications must be avoided. In malarious cases quinine should be exhibited, in cases with arterio-sclerosis iodide of potassium, and in syphilis anti-specific treatment should be carried out. Gangrene should be dealt with on surgical principles. Erythromelalgia The group of symptoms included under this name, originally described by Weir Mitchell, of Philadelphia, in 1872, consists essentially of paroxysmal pain, redness, and swelling, chiefly, though not exclusively, aflPecting the feet. Lewin and Benda, who collected 41 cases, were the first to point out, in 1894, that erythromel- algia is not a disease of itself, but occurs in the course of many nervous disorders. The affec- tion is not a common one. Cassirer in 1901, after an exhaustive examination of the literature on the subject, had collected 90 instances in all. Etiology.—Sex.—A slight majority of cases, as in Raynaud's disease, has occurred in males. The age of onset has mostly been in middle life, between the ages of twenty and sixty, though neither extreme of life is exempt. Occupations which entail severe exertion with long hours of standing, or exposure to varying temperatures, appear to act as remote predisposing causes. Thus tailors, who have to sit in an awkward position at work, and fishermen, engine-drivers, and washerwomen, who are exposed to cold and wet, have been specially frequently affected. Previous illnesses may predispose by lowering the general vitality, but the symptoms often appear in apparently healthy individuals. Toxic causes, such as syphilis, alcoholism, malaria, etc., do not play a part of much im- portance. Local traumatism has occasionally preceded an attack, whilst cessation of the menses, whether accidental, as from falling into a river, or physiological, as at the menopause, has also been noted as preceding the first attack. Symptoms.—The chief symptom consists in a peculiar burning or stabbing pain, generally affecting one foot, sudden or gradual in onset, and often of excruciating intensity. This pain is intermittent, and recurs at varying intervals in attacks lasting from a few minutes to several hours at a time. It is made worse by a de- pendent posture of the limb, by voluntary movement, or by warmth, whilst it is relieved by a horizontal posture, by rest, and by cold applications. Redness and swelling of the affected area of skin are superadded, though often not until several weeks or months after the first appear- ance of the pain. More rarely the redness and swelling precede the pain. The redness is of a bright tint. Its area may be diffuse; more often it is circumscribed at first, affecting, for example, the ball of the hallux or of one of the other toes, the heel, or the outer or inner side of the foot. Sometimes several discrete patches occur. This redness spreads, increases in in- tensity, and, if the vertical position of the limb be maintained, there appears turgescence of the skin with bounding arteries and venous dilata- tion. This swelling of the skin occasionally pits on pressure ; more usually this is not so. After some minutes or hours the " vascular storm" partly subsides, the hyper?emia becomes passive instead of active, the arteries throb less violently, and the bright red gives place to a bluish, dusky, cyanosed tint which persists for some little time. During the red phase the pain becomes pro- gressively more intense, and there is exquisite tenderness to all varieties of stimuli in the