100 PIGMENTS OF THE BODY AND EXCRETA eggs. In normal human urine it is present in minute traces, and occasionally, especially as a result of sulphonal poisoning, it appears in the urine in much lai'ger amount (see art. " HjEMATO- PORPHYRiNURiA," vol. iv. p. 21). Traces of this pigment are also met with in faeces and bile, and it is more abundantly present in meconium. In a case of sulphonal poisoning it has also been extracted from the blood. There is as yet no evidence that hsemato- porphyrin is anything but a waste product of metabolism, and the amount excreted appears to be largely dependent upon the condition of the liver. Haematoporphyrin (CjgHj3N203) is distin- guished by the beautiful pink colour of its sokitions, and by the distinctive and somewhat complex spectra shown by its solutions under different conditions. The interest attaching to this pigment is greatly increased by the fact that pigments bearing the closest resemblance to it in their spectroscopic properties have been obtained by Church from tui-acin, and by Schiinck and Marchlewski from chlorophyle; but both turacoporphyrin and phylloporphyrin differ from haematoporphyrin in their composi- tion. This raises the question how far a practi- cal identity of absorption spectra affords evidence of the identity of the substances which yield them, and, as we shall presently see, the same question arises with regard to the urobilinoid products artificially prepared from bilirubin and haematin. On the other hand, such resemblances may fairly be supposed to point at least to a close chemical relationship between the sub- stances from which such allied products are obtained, and probably to the presence in them of a common radicle. The bile pigments constitute a second class of iron-free haemoglobin derivatives, and of these bilirubin and biliverdin are by far the most important. Bilirubin has the formula C]gHjgN203, and will be seen to be isomeric with haematoporphyrin. In the amorphous state it appears as a yellowish red powder, insoluble in water, very slightly soluble in alcohol and ether, but readily dissolved by chloroform. It forms readily soluble compounds with alkalies, and alkaline solutions turn green on standing, owing to the oxidation of bilirubin to biliverdin (Cj^H^gNgO^). Unlike bilirubin, biliverdin is readily soluble in alcohol, and insoluble in chloroform. Neither of these pig- ments shows any spectroscopic absorption bands, but merely general absorption of the more refrangible rays. The evidence of the derivation of the bile pigments from haemoglobin is of various kinds, such as their increased formation when excessive haemolysis is going on ; the formation of crystals of haematoidin, which is apparently identical with bilirubin, in the seats of blood extravasa- tions ; and the fact that under the influence of reducing agents both bilirubin and haematin yield urobilinoid products. The bile of the herbivora is green from the presence of biliverdin, but some doubt exists as to the nature of the pigment of normal human bile. Post-mortem human bile is usually golden or brown in tint, and in gall-stones bilirubin calcium is the chief pigmentary ingredient, whereas fistula bile is nearly always of a bright green colour. When the bile pigment traverses the intestine unchanged it may appear in the faeces, either as bilirubin or as biliverdin. When it becomes diffused thi-ough the tissues in jaundice it appears in the skin as bilirubin, but in cases of long-standing jaundice a greenish tint develops. In the urine of jaundiced persons either or both of these pigments may be present, and especially in the urine of infants bilirubin may be deposited in crystalline form. The other known bile pigments, such as bilifuscin, bilihumin, and biliprasin, have been chiefly met with as constituents of gall-stones. Bilicyanin has also been found in gall-stones, and cholhaematin is a pigment with a charac- teristic spectrum which has been found by MacMunn in the bile of sheep and oxen. Urobilin is also found in the bile, and appears to be one of a group of allied pigments which may be prepared by the action of reagents upon the blood and bile pigments. It is characterised by a broad dark absorption band near the F line, and by yielding a green fluorescence with zinc chloride and ammonia. It is abundantly present, chiefly as a chromo- gen, in normal faeces, and is probably formed by the action of intestinal bacteria upon bili- rubin. It differs, however, in composition from hydrobilirubin, the very similar pigment ob- tained by the action of sodium amalgam upon bilirubin. It is also met with in urine in traces in health, and here in the form of chromogen, and in far larger amount in many morbid urines, which may show its absorption band with great distinctness. There are good grounds for believing that the urobilin of the urine and the bile are alike derived from the intestinal supply, and it disappears from both urine and bile when complete occlusion of the common duct prevents the entry of bile into the intestine. Among the derivatives of haemoglobin a place should probably be assigned to urochrome, the yellow colouring matter of normal urine, which has no distinctive spectrum. From this pigment a urobilinoid substance is obtained by the action of aldehyde upon an alcoholic solution, but this, like the products prepared from haematin and bilirubin, exhibits differences from the natural urobilin of the urine and faeces. As to the mode and place of origin of urochrome no further evidence is as yet forthcoming. The Melanins.—Our knowledge of the dark brown and black pigments known as melanins is as yet very imperfect. Numerous analyses