127 PLAGUE the medical officer who advises it, and also upon the light in which people regard vaccines. We are compelled to admit that this prophylactic is less preventive against plague than vaccination is against smallpox, but the extent and virulence of the epidemic may be sufficient to overcome conscientious objection. Persons exposed to infection by living or working in infected localities should be specially urged to protect themselves by inoculation. The statement of the Indian Plague Commission already quoted should be made public, or some such notice as the following should be widely distributed :— " Plague Preventive Inoculation " The public are strongly urged to submit themselves to the preventive inoculation against plague, whereby they will receive a very great amount of protection against the disease. It has been proved of great benefit in India, Australia, and South Africa, where among the small proportion of the inoculated who con- tracted plague the disease has usually taken a mild course. The operation is followed by some feverish disturbance which passes off in a few hours, and by some swelling of the upper part of the arm, which should be kept at rest for a day or two. Persons may be inoculated by their own medical attendant, or at the following places by the officers provided for the purpose. ..." (c) Sanitation.—A general campaign must be conducted against insanitary conditions, espe- cially against those likely to encourage the presence of rats near houses. Overcrowding should be abated as far as possible, and filthy houses cleansed. Special attention should be devoted to such occupations as rag picking, old clothes selling, and the like. The exportation of rags must be prohibited. (d) Medical Supervision of Contacts. — In some places it has been customary to remove contacts from their houses, and to place them in an enclosure under a guard for ten or twelve days. During this period they are daily in- spected by a medical officer, and are not allowed to mix with the outer world. This system has been adopted, not only among natives, where it is often inevitable, but also in the cases of Europeans. It imposes great hardships in many instances, and is not a reasonable plague preventive measure where it can be avoided. The idea is to daily inspect every person who has been exposed to plague infection until the expiration of a liberal incubative period. Pro- vided these persons have been compelled to evacuate their houses till these have been dis- infected, and provided the clothes they are wearing are also disinfected, I can see no objec- tion to their mixing with the outer world during the period they are under observation. The only necessity is that they should not evade medical inspection, and this could be easily guaranteed upon their own undertaking, in the case of the respectable, and others should be asked to find some surety for their appearance at the daily inspection. In this way a man goes to work from the reception house to which he has been removed, and his mode of life is as little inconvenienced as possible. There is a difficulty in carrying out such a sclieme among native races, but every effort should be made to avoid compulsory segregation of contacts, which has been one of the great sources of public opposition to plague measures. (e) Evacuation of Infected Premises. — All premises, ivhetlier infected by rat or man, should be forthwith evacuated and disinfected. A camp of tents or other dwellings should be pro- vided, into which the inhabitants of blocks of buildings should be sent while their houses are being disinfected. Contacts of cases should be sent to reception houses or camps of this nature and daily inspected. It is essential to remove every plague case, except those who are practi- cally moribund, to hospital. (/) Disinfection; Disinfection of Infected Premises.—Infected premises, being defined as those infected by man or rats, must after evacuation be disinfected. This cannot be done whilst the people are in their houses. They can be despatched to the reception house to undergo personal disinfection, and remain there or with friends till their houses are ready for them. After removal of the case and contacts, the house should be taken in charge by the plague authorities and locked till the disinfect- ing gang arrive. It should then be subjected to fumigation by burning sulphur, liquefied SO.^, or by some efficient type of formalin lamp. After twelve hours the house should be opened, and after an inventory is taken, the interior of the dwelling cleansed by washing and spraying the walls and ceilings with 2 per cent formalin solution or corrosive sublimate. A useful stock solution is—Corrosive sublimate, 4 oz.; hydro- chloric acid, 1 pint; water to 1 Winchester quart; colour with litmus. For use, add half a bottle to 6 gallons of water, or 8 fluid oz. to 1 gallon of water. This must be mixed in wooden vessels. The furniture should be sprayed with the 2 per cent formalin solution. A certain number of articles, such as filthy rags and blankets, must be burnt, and such things as bedding, clothes, etc., sent to the steam disinfector. After the house is disinfected it must be exposed to the influence of sunlight and fresh air. The point in which the disinfec- tion of a plague house differs from that of any other infective disease is that it is absolutely necessary to remove all floor, skirtings, false ceilings, and so on, if there are any signs of rats about the house. This causes considerable expense and takes time, but it has to be done thoroughly. Any dead rats found must be at once cremated, and the infected area saturated