PULSE, THE 424 Attention has already been drawn to the fact that under treatment, when the dilatation of the ventricle subsides, the epigastric impulse disappears. Pulsation from the Abdominal Aorta.—The abdominal aorta may sometimes com- municate a pulsa- tion to the epigas- trium. It is then, of course, a systolic protrusion and not „ . , . , , a retraction, and is Fig. 106.—Epigastricpulsation from . t ■ . , n a child aged 9 years, with rheu- easily distinguished rht^cVXgram iftfof'Thi from the ordinary, "inverted" type. or from the inverted cardiogram. Its systolic portion is synchronous with that phase in the radial sphygmogram, and there is no phase corresponding to the period D of the cardiogram —the so-called " pre- sphygmic " period. Impulse from the Pulmonary Artery.— Among other pulsa- tions seen over the cardiac area mention may be made of that due to the pulmonary artery. Fig. 107 is a tracing taken from a girl ten years old who had a severe attack of rheumatic fever, and the pulsation recorded is evidently directly communicated Supposed Auricular Pulsation.—A case of special interest may be briefly referred to. A girl aged five years had a congenital cleft in her sternum, just over the site of the left auricle. There was marked pulsation here which was supposed to be auricular. The movement, however, lasted over a longer period than one would expect for an auricular contraction, and it was not altogether suggestive of the pulmonary artery. Tracings of the pulsation were taken simultaneously with the radial pulse. Fig. 109 shows the result. It is a good example of the "inverted cardiogram," and therefore the movement was really due to a sucking in of the tissues above the site of the apical protrusion, or it may possibly have been caused by the systole of the right ventricle. One sometimes obtains quite a similar tracing, however, off the pulmonary area in children. Fig. 110 is an example ; the systolic portion of Fig. ids.—Simultaneous tracings from the pulmonary artery and radial pulse, showing the con-espondence of the systolic portions, E. the radial pulse corresponds to a fall in the cardiographic tracing; it is therefore an " in- verted cardiogram." Cardiograms obtained directly off the Left Ventricle.—The writer had a unique opportunity, through the kindness of Mr. Dowden, of obtaining cardiograms directly off the left ventricle from a child five years old. patient under his care suffered from multiple pysemic abscesses, and one, which Fig. 107.—Simultaneous tracings from the left apex-beat (upper tracing) formed over the left mammary region, and from the pulmonary artery (lower tracing). The movements are synchronous. by the pulmonary artery. There was visible pulsation over the region of the left auricle, and it was doubtful whether it was an auricular movement or one due to the pulmonary artery. Two trac- ings are given which clearly show that the impulse is not an auricular one, and that the movement is quite synchron- ous with the systole of the left ventricle and with the radial pulse (.see Figs. 107 and 108). Other Movements over the Precordial Region.—Other movements over the precordia are generally due to a retraction of the tissues coincident with the apex-beat. A tracing reveals their true significance when timed with the radial pulse. was observed to communicate a cardiac rhythm. It was incised, and pieces of rib were removed. An opening was thus left in the chest wall through which the ventricle, covered by the pericardium and the visceral Fig. 109.—Sujiposed auricular pulsation—really an " inverted cardiogram." Systolic portion of radial sphygmogram E corresponds to a depression in the cardiogram. layer of the pleura, could be easily seen. A small metal "receiver," with rubber tubing attached, was thoroughly sterilised, and was passed through the wound on to the surface of the left ventricle. The other end of the