12 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTEITION OF THE TISSUES 2nd. The middle layer is composed of fibres running horizontally round each ventricle. It is the thickest layer of the heart, and in con- PC- ■PPM-- - -PA S, P M ■I. C. A.P M Fig. 117.—The l iglit ventricle and tricuspid valve to show the relation- ship of the papillary muscles and chordse tendinea; to the cusps of the valve. {See text.) tracting it pulls the walls of the ventricles towards the septum ventriculi. 3rd. The inmost layer is continuous with the outmost layer, as it turns in at the apex. It may be considered as composed of two parts— (a) A layer of fibres running longitudinally along the inside of each ventricle from the apex upwards to the auriculo-ventricular ring. These fibres are raised into flesliy columns, the columnte carnefe. (h) A set of fibres, constituting the papillary muscles (Fig. 117, F.M.), wliich, taking origin from the apical part of the ventricles, extend freely upwards to terminate in a series of ten- dinous cords (the chordte tendinete), which are inserted partly into the auriculo - ventricular valves, presently to be described, and partly into the auriculo-ventricular rings. The papil- lary muscles are merely specially modified columnte carnete. In many cases, actual mus- cular processes extend from the apex of the papillary muscles to the aurico-ventricular ring. In the left ventricle there are two papillary muscles, or groups of papillary muscles—one in connection with the anterior wall of the ventricle, and one in connection with the jDosterior wall. In the right ventricle there are—1st. One or more small horizontally running papillary muscles just under the pulmonary orifice, their apices pointing backwards (Fig. 117, S.P.M.). 2nd. A large papillary muscle taking origin from the mass of fleshy columns at the apex of the ventricle (A.P.M.). 3rd. One or more papillary muscles of vary- ing size arising from the posterior part of the apical portion of the ventricle {P.P.M.). iith. x\ number of small septal papillary muscles arising from the septum. The distribution of the chordae from these muscles will be considered in connection with the auriculo-ventricular valves. In conti'action, the outmost and inmost layers of the ventricles tend to approximate the apex to the base of the ventricles, but this is I'esisted by the contracting middle layer. The apex tends to be tilted towards the right, the papillai'y muscles shorten; the columnte carnese by their shortening and thickening encroach upon the ventricular cavity, and help to abolish it, while the auriculo-ven- tricular rings are di'awn downwards and in- wards towards the septum. The endocardium forms a continuous fibrous layer, lined by endothelium, extending from the vessels over the inner aspect of auricles and ventricles. At certain points flaps of this endocardium are developed to form the valves of the heart. In the heart, valves are situated at the entrance to and at the exit from the expel- ling cavities. There is thus on each side of the heart a valve between the auricles and ventricles, and a valve between the ventricles and the great arteries. Auriculo-ventricular Valves. — On each side of the heart the auriculo-ventricular valve is formed by flaps of endocardium, which hang FIG 118.—Vertical mesial section through heart to show aortic and mitral valves. R.V., Right ventricle; L.V., left ven- tricle with papillary muscle; L.A., left auricle; ^4o., aorta with anterior cusp on top of septum. downwards from the auriculo-ventricular ring like a funnel into the ventricular cavity, and which are attached to the apices of the papillary muscles by the chordtC tendinefe (Figs. 117 and 118). On the left side of the heart there are two