308 PRESCRIBING, AND METHODS OF ADMINISTERING DRUGS (4) Sprays are liquid preparations which are used in an atomiser for application to the upper air passages. The vehicles chosen are usually distilled water, glycerine, oil, or liquid paraffin, while menthol, cocaine, and carbolic acid are among the most common of the active substances selected. (5) Insufflations are medicated powders which are either snuffed up the nostrils or introduced into the mouth, nose, or larynx by means of a suitable insufflator. (6) Pigments.—This name is given to thick liquid preparations which are brushed on the throat. Glycerine is the most common vehicle, but oils and water may also be used. (6) Trochisci and Pastilles.—A number of lozenges are officinal; should it be desired to prescribe a drug not included in these in this particular form, it is sufficient to indicate the quantities, and write the direction '■'■Ft. Tro- chiscus." Lozenges are of a hard consistence and dissolve slowly in the mouth. When a softer form is desired, the quantity of fruit paste may be increased, or a pastille may be ordered. The basis of pastilles is a flavoured glycerine-jelly (glyco-gelatin). It will, however, be found that the taste of alkaloids and bitter drugs is scarcely concealed by this basis, though menthol may be made palatable in this form. Glyco-gelatin is incompatible with drugs containing tannic acid. (7) Intra-laryngeal and Intra-tracheal Injec- tions.—This method has been adopted with the object of bringing drugs into direct contact with the respiratory passages and lungs. A special curved syringe is used, and, at least until con- siderable dexterity is attained, the injection is made with the aid of the laryngoscope. Anti- septic drugs in oily solutions are generally introduced. B. Rectum.—(1) Eneniata. — Injections into the bowel are given (1) as a means of introduc- ing drugs into the system in unconscious persons or when for any reason stomach or subcutaneous administration is undesirable ; (2) to produce a local action ; (3) to supply nourishment. In the case of the first group the enema should be small, not as a rule exceeding two ounces; the dose of the active agent is about double that required when it is given in the usual manner. Enemata which are designed to act locally are usually given either to evacuate or cleanse the bowel, or to remove flatus, to act as sedatives or astringents and check diarrhoea, or to destroy parasites. Evacuant enemata are large, and consist of water or soap and water in which olive oil, castor oil, or turpentine may be suspended. Sedative enemata should not ex- ceed one or two ounces; they may consist of thin starch, gelatine, or mucilage containing half a drachm of laudanum. Large injections of astringents are sometimes used in cholera and diarrhoeal diseases generally. As it is desired that these should be retained as long as possible, they should be injected very slowly and steadily, the buttocks of the patient being raised so that the fluid may gravitate into the colon. Anthel- mintic enemata may measure about half a pint for an adult; the preparations most frequently employed are salt (2 drs. to 10 ozs.), infusion of quassia, tincture of perchloride of iron (1 dr. to 10 ozs.), or thymol. (2) Suppositories.—The best basis for these is cacao butter, with which the drugs to be administered are to be incorporated. Glycerine jelly may also be used. The irritation it pro- duces depends on the proportion of glycerine it contains; gelatin lessens this, or a sufficient quantity of water annuls it completely. Attempts have been made to utilise the rectal mucosa as a channel for the absorption of various drugs in gaseous form—e.g. chloroform vapour, ether vapour, hydrogen sulphide, car- bonic acid, etc.—but these have not met with any degree of success. C. Genital and other Mucous Membranes.—In this case drugs are used for their local action only, though it must be remembered that certain general effects may ensue. Thus we once noted a quite definite development of the drug-habit following the prolonged use of strong cocaine ointment for intractable pruritus. In these regions the drugs employed are generally introduced in the form of watery in- jections, pigments, pessaries, or bougies. Pes- saries are prepared with a basis of glycerine jelly where a hygroscopic effect is desired, or of cacao butter. Pigments may either be applied with a brush or swab, or on tampons of wool which are allowed to remain in situ. Urethral bougies are made with a gelatin or cacao butter basis. Nasal and aural bougies and suppositories, of similar composition, are also occasionally prescribed. III. By the Cutaneous Surface In the majority of cases drugs are applied to the skin with the object of treating some cutaneous disease by local action. Before con- sidering the different modes by which this can be carried out, one or two methods which do not fall into the above category may be mentioned. Counter-irritants are generally employed in order to influence some deeply seated organ. Of those in common use, the principal, arranged in order of increasing potency, are mustard, turpentine, liniment of ammonia, tincture and liniment of iodine, croton liniment, and canthar- ides preparations. The milder liniments should be rubbed on with the hand ; iodine and croton liniment should be painted on with a brush. The last is somewhat uncertain in its action ; it should in the first instance be diluted with an equal bulk of olive oil or soap liniment, and should never be applied to exposed parts of the