302 PRESCRIBING, AND METHODS OF ADMINISTERING DRUGS one month about ttV minim of laudanum may be administered. Digitalis, quinine, alcohol, strychnine, and mercury are well borne by children; while purgatives, chloral, antipyrin, arsenic, and belladonna are tolerated in doses relatively much larger than by adults. In the aged, who so often suffer fi-om bronchial catarrh, thickened vessels, and inadequate kidneys, opium must be employed with caution. Tonics are seldom well borne, in particular those con- taining strychnine. This drug should indeed be given in very small doses to old people, whether as a stimulant in acute illness, or as a tonic in debility. Idiosyncrasy.—The chief di'ugs towai'ds which patients may be expected to show personal idiosyncrasy are antipyrin and antifebrin, quinine, bromides and iodides, cocaine, bella- donna, arsenic, iron, and copaiva. Such physiological states as pregnancy and lactation are reputed to be influenced by certain drugs, hence care should be taken in prescrib- ing during those periods. In pregnancy, drugs such as ergot, quinine, drastic purgatives, and lead ought to be given cautiously for fear of producing abortion, while during lactation saline aperients and belladonna, which may interfere with the secretion of milk, ought to be avoided. Certain drugs, too, are excreted by the mammary glands, and may thus affect the infant. The importance of this has probably been greatly overrated. Thiemich {Monatschrift f. Geburtshiilfe u. Gynaecologie, 1899, Bd. x.), in a critical review of the whole subject, shows that the only drugs which assuredly pass over in the milk are salicylates and iodides. In one instance it seemed as though mercury also did so. Briensa {Ztsch. f. Exp. Path, und Therapie, 1907, Bd. iv. Hft. 2), after administering medicinal doses of a large number of drugs to nursing women, could detect only iodides, bromides, iron, arsenic, aceto-salicylic acid, and calomel (as mercury) in the milk. Experi- mentally, traces of opium, atropine, and (when given in toxic doses) alcohol have been detected in the milk, but so far as the therapeutic administration of drugs to nursing women is concerned the only ones in which this question need be considered are salicylates and iodides, rhubarb and senna, which may cause catharsis in the infant, and thyroid extract, which has produced symptoms of thyroidism in the breast- fed infants of mothers taking the drug. Toleration.—After long-continued adminis- tration, particularly in the case of opium and hypnotics, the effects of a drug become less evident, and the dose may have to be increased. Cumulative Action.—The duration of action and the rate of excretion influence the amount of a drug which can be administered with safety in a given time. When the drug acts rapidly and for a short time only the dose may be re- peated frequently. On the other hand, if, as in the case of digitalis, the action develops slowly and is more enduring, it is inadvisable to repeat the drug at too short intervals. When drugs are excreted slowly they are apt to accumulate in the body, and their administration may have to be suspended for this reason. A knowledge of pharmacology is the only guide in this matter. Correction of Flavour, Colour, and Odour Palatability.—According to Freyberger, who has specially studied the best methods of cor- recting the tastes of nauseous drugs in view of the necessities of prescribing for children, the most powerful flavouring agents seem to be those derived from oranges, ginger, peppermint, cinnamon, liquorice, and tolu. Perhaps the most generally useful are fluid extract of liquorice, syrup of oranges, and compound tincture of cardamoms. Children, as a rule, dislike peppermint, which, like ginger, is gener- ally palatable to old people. At times, where the administration of alcohol is desired, or at least not disadvantageous, a liqueur of pro- nounced flavour, such as chartreuse or cura^oa, may render a mixture pleasant. Drugs which are extremely nauseous are best administered in capsules or cachets. Thus it is almost im- possible to conceal the taste of paraldehyde or viburnum, though the former is to some extent masked by almond mixture. The following may be useful for reference :— Ammonium carbonate, atropine, belladonna, calumba, cinchona, bitters in general, chloral, codeine, digitalis, strophanthus, the scale pre- parations of iron, guaiacum, hamamelis, mor- phine, quinine, strychnine, antipyrin, salicylates, salicin, bromides, bicarbonates, liquor trinitrini, nux vomica, and dilute acids are most effectually concealed by Syrup of Oranges. Aloes, ammonium chloride, benzoin, cascara, and strychnine are masked by Fluid Extract of Liquorice. Atropine, ergot, Epsom salts, laudanum, male fern, rhubarb, senna, strychnine, sulphuric acid, tannic acid, and terebene may be rendered more palatable by Syrup of Ginger. Antipyrin, bicarbonates, boric acid, diui'etin, iodides, and the liquor hydrargyri perchloridi may be concealed by Peppermint Water. Bicarbonates, camplior, catechu, codeine, kino, and male fern may be disguised by Cinnamon Water. The following are also fairly palatable com- binations :—Ammonium bromide with syrup of oranges and chloroform water. Ammonium carbonate or benzoic acid with syrup of tolu. Ichthyol with oleum citronellaj. Butyl chloral hydrate with glycerine and compound tincture of cardamoms. Chloral with syrup of virginian prunes and cinnamon water. Copaiva with mistura amygdalae. Astringent iron prepara- tions with glycerine. Sulphate of iron with