PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 80 dual to be studied in a Respiratory Calorimeter Chamber. The most complete and elaborate chamber of this kind which has yet been constructed is that made by Drs. Atwater and Rosa, working under tiie Board of Agriculture of the U.S.A. Government. This consists of a double-walled room built in the laboratory, in which a person may be kept for several days at a time. It is provided (1) with an arrangement by which air is supplied and the amount of air measured; (2) with an arrangement by which the heating of the air and the amount of water vaporised may be measured; (3) with an air-tight double window through which the food may be supplied and the excreta passed out. Inside is a folding- bed, writing-table and chair, and an ergometer consisting of a fixed bicycle working against a known resistance. With this chamber it is possible to measure— 1. The work done on the bicycle. 2. The heat given off. This is measured by the extent to which water circulating in special coils is heated and water vaporised. 3. The excretion of matter. This is deter- mined by analysing the air entering and the air leaving the chamber, and thus finding the amount of CO2 and H^O given ofl:' and by analysing the other excretions for nitrogen and carbon. 4. The composition and energy value of the food. Thus an accurate measurement can be made of the intake of matter and energy in the food and the output of matter and energy from the body, and thus the relationship between them can be determined. Using this chamber, Atwater and Benedict have made nineteen studies upon three different men who were kept in the chamber for from three to four days, sometimes at rest, sometimes doing mechanical work upon the stationary bicycle. The general result of these experiments as regards the output of energy is shown in the table. Number Average Output in Calories. of Days. Heat. Work done. Total Energy. Rest 45 2250 0 2250 Work . 22 3420 234 3654 This shows that a man at rest liberated daily about 2250 calories of energy, while, when doing a very moderate amount of muscular work, he Ulcerates about 3654 calories. An extensive study of the diets of peoples of all nationalities and of difterent occupations shows that, unless when poverty prevents it, the food taken per day is capable of yielding in the case of those doing moderate muscular work about 3300 calories, of those at rest about 2700 calories, and of those doing active muscular work 5500 calories. Benedict states the energy requirement of men doing difterent amounts of work as follows:— Sedentary life . . 2700 calories. Light muscular work . 3050 ,, Moderate „ „ . 3400 Hard ,, ,, . 4150 ,, Just as the coal consumption of an engine increases as the work to be done is increased, so the food consumption of man increases with the work to be undertaken. It might be objected to this method of arriving at a conclusion as to the energy re- quirements of the body, that the amount of energy eliminated as heat depends simply iipon the amount of food taken, and that these results do not indicate what is actually required, but that the surplus food must be got rid of in some way since our power of storing it as fat is fortunately limited; that the body simply behaves like an engine in which, if we put more coal on the furnace, more heat will be given off whether the engine has to work or not. But it has been ascertained that, when the supply of energy in the food is less than the amount which these methods lead us to believe is necessary, the tissues of the body begin to be used, and the body loses weight. This is very clearly shown by the following observation on convicts. When the observation was begun their diet yielded above 3900 calories per diem, and the waste of food was very great. To obviate this, the diet was cut down to what was considered sufficient to yield the energy required—to yield about 3500 calories. At once complaints of insufficient feeding became rife, waste stopped, and the convicts generally lost weight. The diet was insufficient, and they were living partly on their tissues. The diet was therefore increased to yield about 3700 calories, and the men no longer lost weight. It must be remembered that the gross energy of the diet must be in excess of the «e< re- quirements of the body, since all the energy of the food is not available {see p. 79). It is therefore safe to conclude that for a labouring man the supply of energy must he about 3500 calories per day. III. Protein Requirements.—Since proteins are essential for the building up of the tissues, a certain quantity must be taken in the food. But since any excess of proteins is simply broken up and the nitrogenous part excreted, it is at least uneconomical, if not prejudicial, to take more protein than is necessary. Many experiments have been made to determine the smallest amount of proteins upon which life