242 PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—AFFECTIONS OF OVUM AND DECIDUA bounds and become pathological. Diffuse hyper- trophy of the decidua consists in a general over- growth of the maternal covering of the ovum. If slight, this condition simply leads to the production of a decidua which is thicker than usual at the end of pregnancy. If excessive, it may result in abortion at any period of gesta- tion, but usually does so at the second, third, or fourth months. Microscopic examination re- veals the presence of an excessive number of decidual cells, the connective tissue is imduly soft and yielding, and the vascular spaces are unduly large. Hfemorrhage occurs into the decidua or into the ovum itself on causes slighter than those necessary to produce it under normal conditions. Congestion due to backward pressure from cardiac lesions, coitus, the action of purgatives, and other slight acci- dents are liable to thus bring about the death of the ovum, more especially at times corre- sponding to the menstrual periods. Polypoid Hypertrophy of the Decidua.— Virchow has described this condition under the name of endometritis decidual polyposa vel tuherosa. The whole decidua is thickened, but very unevenly, its surface being raised into polypoid excrescences, between which the open- ings of the uterine glands may be observed. The tissue is very vascular, and is rich in decidual cells. The condition is sometimes found, as in Virchow's case, in connection with syphilis, and generally with a persistent endo- metritis. Midler states that the choi-ionic villi frequently show myxomatous change. This condition affects early ova and ends in abortion, which occurs from the second to the fourth month. Atrophy of the Decidua. — Spiegelberg, Priestley, and others have described atrophy of the decidua, causing the ovum to be attached by a pedicle instead of being embedded in a continuous layer of maternal mucosa. This condition, by lessening the support usually provided for the delicate membranes of the ovum, has resulted in rupture of its sac through the thinned decidua reflexa. Inflammation of the Decidua.—Inflammatory changes in the decidua follow, as a rule, per- sistent endometritis. If acute, they tend to produce early abortion; and if chronic, they tend to cause fibrosis, undue firmness and toughness of the tissues which attach the ovum to the uterine wall. The result of this is difficulty in separation of the ovum from its bed. If expulsion of the ovum is premature, incomplete abortion occurs ; if it is deferred till term, adherence of the placenta or membranes, or both, complicates the third stage of labour. Purulent inflammation of the decidua, due to microbic infection, has been described by Donat. A placenta expelled at term brought with it decidual masses infiltrated with pus, and purulent fluid was collected between the am- nion and chorion, which were thickened and opaque. The symptom known as hydrorrhoea gravid- arum is due in some cases to a catarrhal inflammation of the glandular elements of the decidua following a chronic catarrhal endo- metritis affecting the epithelial linings of the uterine glands. Fluid containing mucus is secreted in excess, and accumulates between the decidua and the chorion. It may escape either in gushes or by a slow dribbling during the later months of pregnancy. This condition must not be confused with gradual escape of the liquor amnii, nor with cases in which this fluid collects between the amnion and the chorion, escaping suddenly on rupture of the latter membrane. Leopold has demonstrated the occurrence of small cysts in the decidua of young ova, caused by the retention within the uterine glands of the secretion during early pregnancy. During the course of various infectious fevers, which frequently cause abortion, the decidua under- goes acute inflammatory and hsemorrhagic changes, which are held to be the means Toy which abortion is produced. Klotz has described these changes as they occur in measles, and Slavjanski records a condition of hsemorrhagic decidual endometritis in cholera. The decidua was thickened, dark purple in colour, and full of extravasated blood. Syphilis has been found to exist in connection with almost every form of decidual disease; but there is nothing accurately known as to its effects on the decidua beyond the fact that it frequently causes abortion. The above-mentioned affections of the decidua are seldom if ever diagnosed, and they admit of no treatment. While of pathological interest they have no clinical importance except in so far as they affect the nature and management of the abortions they cause. They are in- directly causal of many sequelae of abortion and parturition. Haemorrhage.—^Hsemorrhage into the decidua, however, sometimes causes the death of the ovum, followed by its pi'olonged retention in utero and its final expulsion in the foi'm of a fleshy or bloody mole (see also " Mole, Molar Pregnancy," vol. vi. p. 438). Fleshy or Carneous Mole.—When the ovum dies without the occurrence of haemorrhage, and is then retained for a time in utero, it shrinks and luidergoes fatty degeneration, being ultimately expelled as a shrivelled mass known as a " blighted ovum." When, however, bleeding occurs into the decidua, the intervillous space is distended, the decidua is more or less broken up. The subchorionic hsematoma thickens the wall of the ovum and causes the chorio-amniotic membrane to be thrown into convolutions, which project as bosses and tuberosities into the anniiotic cavity. Some specimens have been