162 PNEUMONIA—CLINICAL SECTION Physical Signs . . . . .178 Complications ... . . .179 Diagnosis . . . . . ' . 181 Prognosis . . . . . .182 Treatment . . . . . .183 Prophylaxis . . . . .183 Management . . . . .183 Antitoxin Treatment . . .184 Rational Treatment . . . .185 Definition.—By the term " pneumonia " is to be understood, for the purposes of this article, a specific general infection of bacterial origin, analogous to the other infective or so-called " zymotic" diseases. This infection either begins in the air vesicles of the lungs, a primary growth of the infecting micro-organism taking place in the pulmonary parenchyma as in a congenial soil, or else it shows a special affinity for that anatomical structure, in which it and its toxins find a secondary focus and become localised, so leading to topical, inflammatory, and sometimes organic degenerative changes. The local inflammation is signalised by increased blood-supply (or fluxion), followed in turn by hypersemia of the affected lung substance; an exudation into the air vesicles, which become choked with it; secondary degenerative changes in that exudate ; and, finally, its absorption and expulsion. The clinical phenomena attending such an infection are, first, general; secondly, local. The general symptoms are those of a continued fever setting in after an incubation period of variable though short duration—chills, headache, rheumatoid and neuralgic pains, loss of appetite, constipation, elevation of temperature, prostra- tion. The local subjective signs, or symptoms, are pain in the chest, hurried, difficult breathing, cough, and finally expectoration of a peculiar kind. The local objective signs, or physical signs, are such as to suggest the plugging of greater or smaller tracts of pulmonary tissue with inflammatory products, the signs changing with each progressive stage in the disease, as will be hereafter described. Evidences are usually forthcoming that neighbouring parts— the pleura on the one hand, the bronchial mucous membrane on the other—share in the mischief wrought by the disease. Pneumonia, or pneumonic fever, as it should be more rightly called, must be regarded as a multiple infection. That is to say, it arises from one or other of many infectious, as will be afterwards shown. To the classical type of acute croupous pneumonia, or lobar pneumonia, however, two micro-organisms especially seem to stand in a direct causal relation. These are —(1) The Diplococcus pneumonioi of Fraenkel, so called by Weichselbaum, now called the " pneumococcus " ; and (2) the pneumococcus of Friedliinder, or the Bacillus jmeumonice of Fliigge, by which latter name it is now usually known. As to the communicability of pneumonia no doubt can any longer be entertained. The spray blown from the mouth with each cough and the dried expectoration are the most prob- able, as they are the most obvious, channels of infection. Usually affecting a lobe or lobes of either lung, acute pneumonia in children and in the aged is often disseminated, assuming a lobular rather than a lobar character in such patients. Like typhus fever, pneumonia is a cyclic and self-limited disease, in which the constitutional fever runs its course in five, six, or seven days, when (in uncomplicated cases) it terminates by a crisis. Historical.—Pneumonia, taken in the widest acceptation of the term, may be described as a malady of all the centuries, of all climates, and of all ages of life. Its epidemic prevalence, according to August Hirsch, is recorded in the sixteenth-century chronicles of . pestilence in Italy, Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland, and France. One of the earliest allusions to epidemic malignant pneumonia is met with in Savonarola's Practica, published at Venice in 1497, where it is stated: "In civitate nostra Paduse et Trevisii et Venetise 1440 de mense Martii antea et post apparuit pleuresis mala, quae erat contagiosa, ex qua multi et plurimi moriebantur." In the second book of his treatise, "Ilept vovcrojv," Hippocrates gives a faithful account of pneumonia under the name "'H UepnTXev/jLovlr]." The later form of the word was " wepnrvevixovia," used by Celsus and Galen. Celsus (Lib. iv. cap. iii.) says: "Vehemens et acutus morbus quem TrepnTvevfiovLKov Graeci vocant." Plutarch uses the shortened form ■n-vevfj.ovia, the Attic being properly -n-Xevfj-ovLa, Hippocrates using the equivalent 17 TrAev/xovts. Sydenham in the seventeenth century de- scribed true pneumonia under the name peri- pneumonia vera as contrasted with bastard peripneumony —peripneumonia notha — which Huxham in 1764 defined as an obstruction of the lungs by a heavy, viscid, pituitous matter. Was this oedema of the lungs, or (as Dr. Pye Smith states in his article on " Pneumonia" in Dr. Cliff'ord Allbutt's System of Medicine) bronchitis 1 To Hoffmann belongs the credit of introducing the name pneumonic fever, which modern path- ology and symptomatology alike justify and approve. To the German school, represented especially by Cohnheim, we owe the term fibrinous or croupous pneumonia, which means that a coagulable fibrinous exudation takes place on the free surface of the affected lung, that is, into the air-vessels of the affected portion of the organ. Pleuro-pneumonia is a valuable name for the disease, in so far as it emphasises the frequency with which the pleura shares in the morbid process. Lastly, the adjectives