349 PUERPERIUM, PHYSIOLOGY OF reaching a maximum of 100'5°F. (38° C). So also E. S. Tait found that the highest tempera- ture occurred on the third day, and he attributed the rise to the onset of lactation. The teaching of modern text-books is that, while the tempera- ture of the lying-in woman is easily disturbed, it is not normally different from that of a healthy person. Galabin was among the earliest to ex- press this view. He says : "It does not appear that any notable rise of temperature should be regarded as necessary, or absolutely normal; and the elevation abovit the third day is probably due, much more often than was formerly supposed, to a slight septic or traumatic disturbance." Eecent American, French, and German opinions are in accord with those of English writers on this point. Varnier states categorically that "the so-called milk-fever is nothing else than an attenuated form of puerperal infection." It is not necessary to multiply quotations, and I will content myself with supporting the modern view on the careful observations of Probyn-Williams and Cutler. Observations made on 100 consec- utive uncomplicated cases led them to the con- clusion that the average temperature during the lying-in varies between 98° and 99° F. Rupture of the perineum was in the former days a frequent cause of rise of temperature. Tait found that, in 23 cases of more or less severe tear, the average highest temperature was 103"8°; in 7 cases of slight tear, 102'6°; and in 11 cases of labial tear, 103-7°. With a better asepsis these temperatures disappear. Probyn-Williams and Cutler found that, in 15 consecutive cases of rupture of the perineum, requiring one or more sutvires, the average of their temperatures did not differ to any appreci- able extent from the normal. W. S. A. Griffith considers that normal cases are those in which the temperature does not exceed 99°, and finds that on this basis about 60 per cent of cases may be regarded as normal. There are two reasons why the belief in " milk- fever " should have prevailed so long. In the first place, before antisepsis was introduced into midwifery, a mild degree of saprsemia or of septic infection often occurred ; and the usual time for the manifestation of these conditions is from the second to the third day, i.e. about the time that the breasts are taking on a fuller activity. In the second place, as Griffith points out, there is a direct connection between septic conditions of the uterus and a form of mastitis; and pyrexia, associated with a blush on the breasts, may be, and often is, due to some putrid clot or portions of placenta. The skin of healthy lying-in women is more moist than in the non-puerperal condition, and indeed this is a feature that persists during lactation. It is not, therefore, the result of the muscular efforts incidental to delivery. It is probably correlated with the activity of the breasts, to which the glands in the skin have an ancestral relationship. No doubt an addi- tional cause for increased activity in the skin is to be found in the fact that the skin shares with the kidneys the duties of increased eli- mination of waste tissue-products resulting from involution. The pigmentation of the skin brought about during pregnancy usually fades fairly rapidly, and may have disappeared almost completely in a few weeks. The striae lose their reddish tinge, and eventually become white and opaque. The development of mammary functions by the skin of lying-in women was first described by Champneys, who found that in 27 out of 377 women confined at the General Lying-in Hospital, lumps appeared in the axillse, from which a milky secretion could be expressed. In half the cases they were bilateral. These lumps are situated in the skin, and, unlike lymphatic glands, can be raised and isolated from deeper structures. They are soft, flattened, without obvious nipple, pore, or duct. They are limited to the hair-covered surface, and range in size "from the smallest perceptible to that of an egg." They are commonly first noticed on the third or fourth day after delivery, and their course coincides generally with that of the breasts, enlarging and becoming tense and some- times tender about the third day. They some- times enlarge, and occasionally become painful at the beginning of a subsequent pregnancy, or during menstruation. The secretion does not flow spontaneously; but when squeezed out it appears successively as granular debris, like the secretion of sebaceous follicles ; then colostrum, and then milk. At first these lumps were thought to be associated with sebaceous glands, but a later investigation by Champneys and Bowlby has shown them to be modified sweat-glands, the sebaceous glands being unaltered. 2. Circulatory and Respiratory Systems.—The Heart.—During the later months of pregnancy the heart usually becomes displaced slightly to the left; but with the emptying of the uterus and the diminution of intra-abdominal pressure, it is able to resume its normal position. The base of the thorax at the same time tends to return to its noi-mal width ; it does not, how- ever, do so entirely, except under the influence of artificial compression. A second important change is the disappearance of the hypertrophy that is found during pregnancy; this involution of the cardiac muscle is commonly associated with a soft blowing murmur replacing the first sound as heard at the apex. This was first described by Angel Money, and has been con- firmed by later observers. Dakin found it to be present in 57 out of 100 cases specially ex- amined at the General Lying-in Hospital. The Pulse.—Retardation of the pulse diu-ing the lying-in was incidentally noted by R. Whytt in 1765. Montgomery recorded, in 1857, three cases in which the pulse was 40 to 44 on the