208 POST-MORTEM METHODS Grasp the dura at the lower end of the cord with dissecting forceps, and remembering that the cord does not extend beyond the second lumbar vertebra, cut it across well below that point; then free the dura from its attachments right up the canal, and cut across the spinal nerve-roots as far out as possible. While doing this, and lifting the cord from its bed, traction mu.st always be kept up on the dura sufficient to keep the cord straight, any bending or crushing of it being avoided, as this might produce changes simulating disease. Cut through the dura at its attachments to the margins of the foramen magnum, and, dividing the cord transversely, close to the skull, remove it. Examine the cut surface. It should be clean cut, not bulging, and the grey matter distinct from the white. Lay it on a flat surface, and slit up the dura in the middle line before and behind. Note congestion of membranes, thickening of dura, adhesion to the arachnoid, subdural htemorrhage, tumour-growth, thickening or calcareous deposit in the arachnoid, presence of purulent lymph or tubercular deposits (miliary or caseating). Tubercular meningitis occurs most commonly in the cervical and lumbar regions; in the former associated with and in most cases extending from a similar condition at the base of the brain. It appears as a fine granularity or mottling of the surface, best seen on the anterior surface. The anterior surface may be distinguished by the large longitudinal vessels running along the middle line, or by the shape of the anterior horn, and the distinct anterior fissure seen on the cut surface. If the cord is to be examined microscopically, cut it across at frequent intervals, between the origins of the spinal nerves, and place it in 10 per cent formalin solution. Brain.—Incise the scalp from mastoid to mastoid across the vertex, first separating the hair along the line of incision. Detach the scalp and occipito-frontalis as far forward as the siiperciliary ridges, and as far backwards as the external occipital protuberance. Note presence of htemorrhage, bruising, or suppuration, external to or under the occipito- frontalis, and any injury or disease of the bone. Carry the knife horizontally round the skull in a line passing just above the superciliary ridges, and passing through the occipital pro- tuberance. Part of the strong fascia over the temporal muscles should be left above this incision.—The reason for this will appear later, when we come to close the head. Then make a saw-cut through the skull in the same line, taking care not to let the saw pass through its whole thickness. The left hand or the hand of an assistant steadying the skull must be protected by a towel against injury from slipping of the saw. " To complete the separation of the skull- cap use the mallet and steel chisel, breaking through the remainder of the inner table, unless a fracture of the bones of the skull is suspected, in which case it is better to use the saw more freely, even at the risk of injuring the mem- branes or the brain " (Woodhead). Then lever up the calvarium and remove it, leaving the dura intact supporting the brain. This will not always be possible, for example in old people, in chronic alcoholics, or where the dura has become fixed to the skull from old inflammation. In children, also, the dura is usually firmly attached to the bone. In such cases remove it with the calvarium, cutting it through in the line of the saw-cut. After removing the calvarium examine its inner surface for fracture, erosions, or prom- inences. The anterior fontanelle should be closed at the twentieth month. The cranium may be thinned in rickets, congenital syphilis, or hydro- cephalus. Note the presence of Wormian bones in the lines of the sutures. It may be thickened in old age and the various forms of osteitis. Examine the surface of the dura; slit up the longitudinal sinus, and note whether thrombosis, recent or old, simple or purulent, be present. Then incise the dura in the line of the saw-cut, except in the middle line before and behind, and draw the lateral flaps thus made upwards towards the vertex. Examine its inner surface for pachymeningitis hsemorrhagica, or other condition, and then note the condition of the pia-arachnoid and cerebral convolutions. The arachnoid may be milky from old fibrous thick- ening, or in recent meningitis. There may be clear, turbid, or purulent effusion in the pia-arachnoid. The convolutions may be flattened, and the sulci shallow where there is distension of the ventricles, abscess, or tumour of the brain. Note whether this is symmetrical. The convolutions may be narrowed and atro- phied, and the sulci deep and wide, filled with fluid in old age, in chronic alcoholism, and in certain other diseases {v. Insanity). There may be tubercles in the pia mater, extending chiefly in the neighbourhood of the Rolandic and Sylvian fissures. These must not be con- founded with the Pacchionian bodies which are clustered at the vertex close to the margins of the longitudinal fissure. In septic and other toxic conditions there may be petechial hajmorrhages in the pia- arachnoid—circumscribed, or more often, dif- fused. The membranes may be lacerated in cases of compound fracture. In hernia cerebri a mush- room-like projection of brain substance exists, from which, frequently, pus can be expressed. Congestion. — Passive engorgement having disappeared, as the heart has already been re- moved and the venous blood drained away, active