PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 14 From the oblique position of the heart, the right auricle and ventricle are directed forwards, and it is a portion of the right ventricle which lies in relationship with the chest wall. The rest of the organ is covered by the lungs. The only parts of the left side which can be seen from the front are the tip of the left auricular appendix, and a narrow strip of the left ventricle. Below and behind the heart lies upon the central tendon of the diaphragm, to which the pericardiiim is attached. All round it are the lungs completely filling up the rest of the thorax. The heart is enclosed in a strong fibrous bag, the pericardium, which supports it and prevents over-distension. When fluid accumulates in this bag, the auricles are pressed upon and the flow of blood into them is impeded. B. Physiology of the Heart.—The Cardiac Cycle.—Each part of the heart undergoes con- tractions and relaxations at regular rhythmical intervals, and the sequence of events from the occurrences of any one event to its i-ecurrence constitutes the cardiac cycle. A. Frog.—In the frog a contraction, starting from the openings of the veins, suddenly in- volves the sinus venosus, causing it to become smaller and paler. This contraction is rapid and of short duration, and is followed by a re- laxation, the cavity again regaining its former size and colour. As this relaxation begins, the two auricles are suddenly contracted and pulled downwards towards the ventricle, at the same time becoming paler, while the ventricle be- comes more distended and of a deeper red. The rapid brief auricular contraction now gives place to relaxation, and, just as this begins, the ventricle is seen to become smaller and paler, and, if held in the finger, is felt to become firmer. This event takes place more slowly than the contraction of either sinus or auricles. The chief change in the ventricle is a diminu- tion in its lateral diameter, though it is also decreased in the antero-posterior and vertical directions. During ventricular contraction the bulbus is seen to be distended and to become of a darker colour. The ventricular contraction passes off" suddenly, the ventricle again becom- ing larger and of a deep red colour. At this moment the bulbus aortte contracts and becomes pale and then relaxes before the next ventricular contraction. Each chamber of the heart thus passes through two phases—a contraction phase, a systole of short duration, and a longer relaxation phase, the diastole. And the sequence of events in the frog's heart might be schematically repre- sented as in Fig. 120. B. Mammal.—1. Rate of Recurrence.—The rate of recurrence of the cardiac cycle varies with the animal examined. In man it is in adult life about 72 per minute. Many factors modify the rate of the heart. (1) Period of Life. — The following table shows the average rate of the heart at differ- ent ages:— 140 per minute. 120 100 85 70 to 75 „ 75 to 80 „ Foetus Under 1 year 1 to 3 years 7 to 14 years 21 to 61 years Old age (2) Period of the Day.—The pulse is gener- ally slowest in the early morning, and quickest in the evening. (3) Temperature of the Body. — The pulse varies with the body temperature, generally stnus. BULBU5 Fig. 120.—Scheme of the cardiac cycle in the frog. S.S., Sinus systole; A.S., auricular systole; V.S., ventricular systole; B.S., bulbus systole ; P., rest of all chambers. being increased about 10 beats with each degree Fahr. of elevation of temperature. (4) Muscular exercise increases the rate of the heart—first, by driving the blood from the muscles into the great veins (p. 37); and second, by developing substances such as COg, which act directly upon the cardiac and respiratory mechanisms. (5) Posture has also an important influence. Suddenly assuming the erect position accelerates the heart by causing the blood to accumulate in the abdominal veins, and thus checking its transference on into the arteries (p. 38). (6) The condition of the central nervous system may modify the rate of the heart, any disturbance accompanied by emotional changes either accelerating or retarding it. (7) Stimulation of certain nerves—especially those of the abdomen—tends to cause a retarda- tion in the rate of the heart (p. 22). 2. Sequence of Events. — The sequence of events making up the cardiac cycle is simpler in the mammal than in the frog. The contraction starts in the great veins which enter the auricles, and spreads down along them to these chambers. This corre- sponds to the contraction of the sinus in the frog's heart. It is followed by a short sharp contraction of the auricles, which become smaller in all directions and seem to be pulled down towards the ventricles. The contraction of the auricles in mammals is not accompanied by so