PLEURA, AFFECTIONS OF THE—SURGICAL 153 while been strongly retracted. The operation is a severe one, attended by much shock and hfemorrhage, and the results are often disap- pointing. Schede's tables of his operations, showing 10 cases with 8 cures and 2 deaths, are very encouraging, but the experience in this country, while not unfavourable to its adoption in selected cases, is not such as to lead to so sanguine an estimate of its general applicability and value. It must be conceded that no other operations remedy the spinal curvature or restore the figure in so marked a manner as these extensive resections, but, on the other hand, many of these resections are only partial obliterations of the cavity, the apical portion remaining a suppurating space requiring permanent drainage and resisting all attempts at closure by skin grafting and other plastic measures. The comparative immobility of the two upper ribs is responsible for the failure. The first rib has been resected, but it is considered unwise to tamper with it; and the sinkage of the second on resection is very trifling and the result disappointing. As a guide to the selection of cases for these extensive resections it may be stated, that marked spinal deformity, copious exhaustive discharge, or recurrent haemorrhage form indications; but the best chance of success is afforded by single cavities of moderate size, bounded by the lower and more movable ribs, in subjects under middle age who are free from tubercular taint. It must not be forgotten that chronic empyema patients occasionally live for fifteen to twenty years, and may be able to follow their occupations notwithstanding a daily discharge of pus. Certain difficulties that occasionally compli- cate the management of empyema remain for consideration. 1. Natural openings in unfavourable situa- tions may have formed, and the advantage of making an artificial drain opening in the situa- tion recommended may in such cases be con- sidered. With our present knowledge, the natural pointing of the empyema ought theor- etically never to be seen. Marshall long ago pointed out its frequent occurrence in the second and fifth interspaces in front. 2. Broncho-pleural fistula may exist, and if after a week or two it is evident, from the con- tinuance of septic fever, sweating, and cough, that the cavity retains much pus, a suitable empyema operation has much to recommend it, but caution about administering a general anaes- thetic will not be misplaced. 3. Abscess of the brain, " pulmonal cerebral abscess," is said to occur in about 8 per cent of suppurations in the pleura and lung. It is probably pysemic, and does not lend itself favourably to trephining, for it may be multiple and difficult to localise. If the signs are clear, it would be right to trephine and drain it. 4. A differential diagnosis must be made from pyo-pericardium, subphrenic abscess, and hy- datids. Reference to the special articles upon the pericardium and subphrenic abscess may be made for their respective signs, but a brief notice of pleural hydatids is introduced below. Hydatids in the Pleura may be primary, or they may extend to the pleura from the lungs or liver. The favourite seat is the lower part of the right pleura. They may attain a large size or may burst into a bronchus, the patient coughing up characteristic elements, which, if mingled with bile, point to a hepatic origin. If a hydatid svippurate, the signs and treatment resemble those of empyema, and the prognosis, when similarly incised and drained, is good. Before suppuration signs of a localised collection of fluid having a convex upper outline may be detected, and these signs, associated with con- siderable pain, but no fever, may excite suspicion of hydatids. Probably aspiration will have been carried out before a diagnosis is made. In some cases, however, transient attacks of slight fever as the hydatid grows may be met with. As regards treatment, it is to be remembered that aspiration in hydatids has special risks of swamping the lung and thus suffocating the patient. If, therefore, a strong probability exist that the disease is hydatids, free incision, with removal of the cyst, should be preferred. In chronic cases wherein the cyst cannot be ex- tirpated prolonged drainage must be employed. Pleura.lg'icl.—Intercostal neuralgia. See Hysteria [Sensory Disorders, Hyperciesthesia). Pleura.pophysiS.—The lateral process of a vertebra or the structure representing it (a rib). Pleurisy or Pleuritis. See Pleura, Diseases of (^Pleurisy), and Cross References. PleurO-. — In compound words pleuro- (Gr. TrXevpd, side, Trkevpov, a rib) means relating to the side, to a rib, or to the pleura; e.g. pleurocele (hernia of the pleura), pleurodynia (pain in the side), and pleurospondylian (having the ribs firmly fixed to the vertebrse). Pleurodynia..—This term is applied to the pain of a so-called rheumatic nature that affects the muscles and fibro-tendinous struc- tures of the chest wall. It is commonly spoken of as muscular rheumatism. Its aetiology will be discussed later (see " Rheumatism "). The clinical features are fairly distinct, and consist of a sharp, sudden, and often lancinating pain in the intercostal space. In some cases the pain is very acute, and cough is a frequent accom- paniment. On physical examination little may be found, but in well-marked cases there is an area of acute tenderness in the intercostal space or in the pectoral or serratus muscles. Pain is aggravated by the respiratory movement. The