RHEUMATISM IN CHILDREN 559 jects, as a rule, for blistering. If there is much pain, then a single full dose of opium, appro- priate to the age of the child, given at bed-time, is often extremely beneficial in procuring rest and sleep. After the salicylates have been stopped, the child should be put on a course of iron, such as four or five grain doses of the double citrate of iron and ammonia, whether marked ansemia be present or not. To this a corresponding quantity of citrate of potash is often a useful addition. As far as possible a supine position should be maintained, and, if there be any suspicion of endocarditis, rigidly enforced. A change from the erect to the supine position means, on an average, ten beats less per minute, with a corresponding diminu- tion in the labour of the heart. Not only this, moreover, but when endocarditis is present it means ten less flappings together of the inflamed valvular cusps, and a corresponding increase in the length of the diastole, the only time in the cardiac cycle when repair to its delicate structures is possible or probable. The course of salicylate should not be stopped on the advent of endocarditis. Any irregularity of pulse, or feeble cardiac action, is much more likely due to the disease than to the depressing effects of the drug, which have been much exaggerated. Such conditions are better met by the administration of strychnine, preferably by injection, rather than by the stoppage of the salicylate. Dr. Caton's statistics show such satisfactory results that his treatment deserves a trial in the early stages of endocarditis. This consists in giving appropriate doses of sodium iodide, and the repeated application of small blisters in the lines between the middle of the clavicles and the nipples on either side. Here again at first the salicylate should be given along with the iodide, as the baneful results of a relapse of the rheumatism are much more certain than that any benefit will be gained from the rest of the special treatment. In the early stages of pericarditis two or three leeches should be applied over the heart, or recourse may be had to the ice-bag so warmly advocated by Lees. Blisters, too, are probably useful, but their use interferes with a complete and satis- factory daily examination of the heart. When there is pain or distress no drug is so useful as opium, and this can also be given at first with the salicylate. Alcohol is very seldom required in any of the active phases of rheumatism in children. A child should be kept in bed for at least a month after the subsidence of an attack of marked rheumatism. This, however, is generally difficult of attainment, as the child, perhaps feeling quite well, resents the confine- ment to bed as irksome, and only too often the parents totally fail to appreciate the gravity of the complaint when once the severe symptoms have disappeared. The child who has once had rheumatism should be clothed in flannel or woollen next to the skin, and the clothing is of more im- portance in the summer even than in the winter time. He should be restricted from the more violent games, such as running or football, not only because the fatigue they cause predisposes to rheumatism, but also because the fact of having had rheumatism should render his heart an object of suspicion, although he may present no evidence of valvular defect. If possible, he should not reside in low, damp places, such as the Fen country in England, where there is no doubt rheumatism is unduly prevalent. Apart from such notoriously unsuitable places, however, care and protection from fatigue and damp are more important than place of residence. Numerous places bear a reputation as being "anti-rheumatic" on evidence tliat will not bear investigation; whilst residence by the sea seems beneficial to some children, to others it is apparently detrimental. In fact, when the choice is restricted to these islands, a suitable place of residence is more or less a matter of chance. The prevalent belief that too much butcher meat is harmful for rheumatic children rests on some slight foundation, and it may be well to put the child on a diet where a slight deficiency in it is replaced hj an extra quantity of milk, fish, vegetables, or other food. The practice, too, of giving the juice of a fresh lemon daily to a rheumatic child, in the shape of lemonade, can seldom do any harm, and it may possibly do good by ensuring the continuance of a mild alkaline course in a pleasant and acceptable form. Eheumatoid Arthritis Synonyms ...... 559 Etiology 560 Clinical Characters—■ Subacute and Chronic Polyarticular Variety ..... 561 Acute Polyarticular Variety 565 Mon-articular Arthritis . 566 Morbid Anatomy .... 567 Pathology ..... 568 Diagnosis ..... 570 Prognosis ..... 571 Treatment ..... 571 Synonyms.—Arthritis deformans. Polyarthri- tis chronica, Osteo-arthritis, Rheumatic gout. Mechanical or Traumatic arthritis, Arthritis chronica villosa. Few diseases so common as rheumatoid arthritis, and of equal importance, are regarded by the profession with so little unanimity. This form of joint affection is known to be of great antiquity; the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons possesses bones showing characteristic changes which date back to 1300 B.C. It has received the attention of genera-