179 PNEUMONIA—CLINICAL SECTION of the lung are not blocked, or that a pleural effusion is not already taking place. Dulness on percussion is now elicited over the solidified lung, but the note is not flat or absolutely dull, as in pleural effusion, but hollow, tubular, or perhaps slightly amphoric or metallic. Just before consolidation takes place the cracked-pot percussion sound {bruit de pot fele of Laennec) may be present. Associated with dulness on percussion, a sensation of increased resistance is conveyed to the observer's hand when the chest wall is struck over the solid lung. The air-containing vesicles of the healthy lung rebound to the percussion blow, the blocked-up vesicles of the consolidated lung do not—hence the feeling of resistance, which is in proportion to the dulness on percussion. Fine crepitation is still heard along the con- fines of the consolidated area, but for the most part the breath sounds now are bronchial or tubular — blowing, whiffing, or it may be metallic in character, unless the tubes are blocked. Vocal resonance is increased, assum- ing one or other of the characters described as pectoriloquy (laryngeal or tracheal), broncho- phony (bronchial), or ajgophony (bleating bronchophony). The last-named variety indi- cates interference with the transmission of the vocal vibrations by the presence of fluid in the pleura. For two reasons the heart sounds are intensified over the area of solidified lung: first, the absence of the normal vesicular breathing- throws them into relief; secondly, the solid lung acts as a conductor. 4. Resolution.—In this final stage the dulness on percussion may subside in patches, or gener- ally, and in a such a case with singular rapidity. At the same time a new crepitation is heard, particularly when the patient draws a deep breath. It is not so fine as the viscid crepitus of the earlier stage, and may be described as subcrepitant or medium—-that is to say, the rales occupy an intermediate position between fine crepitus and coarse or mucous rale. This subcrepitus indicates the reopening of the air vesicles and the readmission of air, once the altered and emulsified exudation has been ex- pectorated or absorbed. The expansile move- ments of the affected side of the chest gradually increase. At first they are voluntarily limited by the patient (vital ankylosis), because the freer movements put on the stretch any pleural adhesions which may have formed and so cause pain. Indeed, both after pleurisy and after pneumonia a temporary increase of that pain which is so well described as a "stitch in the side " is commonly observed as a result of the freer expansion of the chest wall. Complications "During the course of an attack of pneu- monia," writes Ernst Ziegler, " inflammation makes its appearance in other organs, such as the pericardium, meninges, and mediastinal tissue, the mucosa and sub-mucosa of tlie pharynx, soft palate and nasal cavities, the conjunctiva, kidneys, etc., in which case tlie affected structures can be shown to contain micrococci." In this sentence we have primary infections by the Diplococms pneumonice indi- cated as a cause of complications. But there may be numerous secondary infections also by other pathogenic micro-organisms than those peculiar to pneumonia; and, in the third place, the marked leucocytosis in pneumonia, and other blood alterations, may give rise to com- plications. The white blood corpuscles increase from 10,000 to 19,000 or more per cubic milli- metre ; as many as 68,000 have been found. The increase is generally in the polymorpho- nuclear cells (Stengel). Fibrin is increased from 4 to 10 parts per 1000, so that a condition of marked hyperinosis exists. One of the most frequent complications of acute pneumonia is pleuritis. In most cases the pleura is more or less involved in the morbid changes, so that the name pleuropmeumonia is appropriate. In a comparatively small number of cases the affection of the pleura becomes so acute and widespread as to constitute danger to life. Then it becomes a complication. This happens in from 5 to 15 per cent of the cases of pneumonic fever. Usually the amount of effusion is small, but owing to the consolidation of the lung a comparatively scanty effusion may make a great show. The solid lung cannot collapse, and so the effused fluid passes upwards above the solidified lobe, which it also surrounds. The effusion may be fibro-serous, sero-fibrinous, or purulent {empyema). This complication is especially apt to occur in childhood, at which period of life the effusion is very commonly purulent from the outset. In the aged, and also in young children, bronchitis plays a prominent part in the symp- tomatology of acute pneumonia, even when the exudation into the air vesicles is fibrinous or croupous. Just as there is in one direction a certain amount of pleuritis in nearly all cases of pneumonic fever, so also there is almost always more or less bronchial catarrh in the other direction. This, however, does not count as a complication unless it is so widespread as of itself to cause risk to life thi'ough palsy of the bronchial muscle in the aged, or mechanically in children by blocking of the bronchioles by plugs of coagulated fibrinous exudation (plastic or croupous bronchitis). Acute capillary bron- chitis, according to Magnus Huss, was present in 140 out of 2616 cases of croupous pneumonia observed in Stockholm—that is, in 5'4 per cent of the patients (Jiirgensen). Pericarditis and endocarditis are rare but perilous complications, particularly in cases in which the heart muscle is implicated, in myo-