287 PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—HEMORRHAGE result of this rupture depends upon the position of the placenta. If the placenta is situated above the foetus, it will almost certainly be in- involved by tlie rupture; and if this occurs during the latter half of pregnancy, the hemor- rhage will be so profuse as to cause the death of the patient (Bland Sutton). If the placenta lies beneath the fostus, the latter can escape into the abdominal cavity, when rupture occurs, without necessarily causing very profuse h£emor- rhage. The symptoms and treatment of this condition, which are practically the same as those of primary rupture, will be found in the article "Ectopic Gestation" (vol. iii. p. 13). When rupture occvirs it may be accompanied by slight uterine ha3morrhage, and perhaps by the expulsion of a decidua. C. HEMORRHAGES OCCURRING DURING THE LAST FOUR MONTHS Hsemorrhages occurring during the last four months may be due to :— I. Detachment of the placenta. II. Rupture of the uterus. I. HEMORRHAGE DUE TO DETACHMENT OF THE Placenta Cases of haemorrhage from detachment of the placenta are divided into two great classes:— A. Accidental hfemorrhage, due to the detach- ment of a normally situated placenta. B. Unavoidable hremorrhage, due to the de- tachment of a placenta prsevia. A. Accidental Haemorrhage Accidental hsemorrhage is the term applied to haemorrhage due to the detachment of a normally seated placenta, i.e. a placenta no part of which comes into the lower uterine segment. Frequency.—The frequency of accidental hae- morrhage is very difficult to ascertain, on ac- count of the cursory manner in which the subject is treated in the majority of text-books. At the Rotunda Hospital, amongst 15,109 cases of labour there were 113 cases of accidental htemor- rhage, i.e. one in every 133-7 cases. Almost all these cases were cases of external accidental haemorrhage. Etiology.—The most frequent cause of de- tachment of the placenta is to be found in some factor which weakens the adhesions between the latter and the uterine wall. Of these, the commonest are endometritis, Bright's disease, and syphilis. Of the three, Bright's disease is the most important, and is practically the sole cause of the more serious forms of accidental haemorrhage. It favours the rupture of vessels in the placental substance, and blood escaping from them forces its way between the placenta and the uterine wall, thus causing the detach- ment of the former. Another cause of quite a different nature from the foregoing is to be found in undue shortness of the cord, either actual or the result of the twisting of the latter round the foetal parts. When such a condition is present, so great traction may result upon the placenta while the foetus is being expelled as to cause detachment. Varieties. — Two chief forms of accidental hae- morrhage are met with, according as the blood escapes externally, or is stored up in the uterus. These are:— (A) Concealed accidental haemorrhage. (B) External accidental haemorrhage. These two varieties differ so markedly from one another, as far as the conditions present and the appropriate treatment are concerned, that they must be described separately. (A) Concealed Accidental H.emorruage.— Concealed accidental haemorrhage is the term applied to accidental haemorrhage when the blood is stored up in the uterus instead of escaping into the vagina. In such a condition the blood may be found in one of four situa- tions :— (1) Behind the placenta, the whole of which is separated except its edges. (2) Behind the membranes, which are de- tached except round the internal os. (3) In the amniotic cavity. (4) Behind the presenting part, if the latter fills the lower uterine segment completely. Concealed accidental haemorrhage is, with the exception of acute sepsis, the most serious accident which can happen to a pregnant woman. This is due not only to the difficulty of diagnosing its occurrence at an eai'ly stage, but also to the fact that we have an entirely different condition of the uterus from that which we find in external haemorrhage. In concealed haemorrhage the blood collects in the uterus, because the latter dilates so easily that the intra-uterine pressure is never sufficiently great to overcome the slight resistance offered to its outflow through the cervix. In external haemor- rhage quite the opposite is the case. Here, the intra-uterine pressure is so rapidly raised, by the escape of blood from behind the placenta, that such blood is almost immediately forced through the cervix. The cause of the difference in the two cases is, that in internal haemorrhage we have to deal with a uterus the muscle fibre of which has for some reason lost its normal contractile tone, and whose elasticity is, as a result, impaired ; while in external haemorrhage, the uterine fibre possesses that normal tone, and hence may be described as " healthy." It is quite obvious that a ruptured vessel can only bleed into a closed cavity as long as tlie pressure inside that cavity is less than the blood pressure. Once they equalise one another the bleeding ceases. If the blood can escape from the cervix as quickly as it flows from behind the placenta, then such equalisation never takes place. If the uterus is healthy in tone and the outflow of blood from the cervix is prevented, the two