278 PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—OTHER AFFECTIONS AND COMPLICATIONS result of the high temperature. Double pneu- monia is always fatal, and septic processes are found to be much more frequent sequels to labour than in normal cases. Induction of premature labour is contra-indicated, all treat- ment being directed to the pulmonary lesion. Phthisis does not necessarily lead to sterility ; the effect of pregnancy upon this lesion was formerly thought to be favourable, but at present the reverse seems to be the generally accepted opinion. As to whether this condition favours the growth of tubercle or not is a little undecided. Treatment by artificial abortion is strongly contra-indicated, and the induction of premature labour is only admissible when the enlarged uterus interferes mechanically with the expansion of the lungs. Bronchitis of the chronic type leads to much dyspnoea and distress during pregnancy, and the engorgement of the right heart may become so marked that venesection or leeching may be necessary; it is frequently followed by great and immediate relief. Pleurisy leading to effusion or empyeema must be treated after the same methods, surgi- cal and otherwise, as would be followed if the disease attacked the unimpregnated female. {See " Pleura.") VII. Renal Affections.—In the kidneys of the pregnant woman hypersemia and increased epithelial proliferation are found, and cannot be attributed to the result of the pressure of the enlarged uterus. The urine is somewhat altered; it may be acid, rarely alkaline. As pregnancy advances, phosphates, sulphates, urea, and uric acid decrease, while water and chlorides increase ; the marked watery condition of the urine is due to increased arterial tension. To this latter factor the presence of transient or permanent albuminuria is due. There seems little doubt that vesical haemorrhage or catarrh of the mucous membrane may occur, leading to a temporary appearance of albumin. This condition always causes anxiety, and the urine should be carefully examined at regular intervals throughout the pregnancy. Albiuninuria is present in a large number of cases of puerperal eclampsia, and also in certain forms of paralysis of the special nerves (amau- rosis), or of the spinal system ; it may also occur in puerperal mania. {See " Puerperium, Puer- peral Insanities.") The presence of albumin to a small extent is found in a considerable proportion of pregnant women (2 to 4 per cent), but it usually rapidly disappears after labour, which maybe concluded without any untoward symptoms arising. Care must be taken to distinguish between the patient who is the subject of chronic I'enal disease and the one in whom the albiunin has appeared for the first time during pi'egnancy. The causation of tiiis complication is still the subject of much discussion; but there are four theories which should be considered, none of which, however, seem to be entirely adequate : (1) Pressure on the venoiis renal vessels by the uterus : this view is favoured by the fact that albumin rarely appears until after the fifth month of pregnancy, and is much more common in primigravidfe, owing probably to the re- sistance of the abdominal parietes being greater. On the other hand, the albumin appears long before the uterus is large enough to exert any pressure upon the renal veins, and large growths (fibro-niyomata and ovarian cytomata) do not always lead to this condition; there must obviously be something in addition to the uterine pressure. (2) That the ureters are obstructed or at least narrowed by the pressure of the gravid uterus. This has been proved by experi- ment to be untenable, and no constant dilatation of the pelvis of the kidney nor of the ureters themselves has ever been observed. (3) That it is due to the increased work thrown upon the kidneys by the addition to the blood of the foetal waste products. (4) That too much stress has been laid upon the mechanical causation, and that the process is rather due to the presence of some toxic material in the blood (Clifford AUbutt). If the albuminuria is recent, symptoms as a rule do not show themselves before the seventh month; they may then come on very suddenly —persistent headache, vertigo, diplopia, vomit- ing, and slight oedema of the face, hands, and feet. A woi'king-woman will often complain of inability to thread her needle. The albuminuric deposit consists of para-globulin; in chronic cases the deposit is mainly serum-albumin. Various paralyses may arise, and well-defined ocular changes {see " Nephritis "); oedema of the lungs may also set in. There will be a decided tendency to htemorrhages and to abor- tion, which latter is owing to the death of the foetus; it may be expelled or be retained in a macerated condition. Foetal death is probably due to imperfect nutrition or to changes in composition of the maternal blood. Eclampsia is more likely to occur in recent cases, while ocular changes are usually present in the more chronic forms. Treatment varies according to the period at which the albuminuria first appears. When it begins early the object of the practitioner should be to promote an increased secretion of urine, and to produce diaphoresis and purgation. Saline diuretics, such as acetate and citrate of potash, fulfil the first requirement, while watery motions will result from daily administration of compound jalap powder. The hot air bath and warm wet pack produce copious sweating and are of great assistance. The patient's urine should be examined every week, and if, in spite of the above remedies and a milk diet, the albumin still increases, absolute rest in bed must be enforced. By some authors milk diet is prescribed, the milk being skimmed. Should