RHEUMATISM, ACUTE 549 the symptoms abate. Later, quinine may be added. The effect of this treatment must be carefully watched, for it may prove too depres- sant if the circulation is feeble, and with some patients these large doses of alkalies cause severe diarrhoea. The view that rheumatic fever is the result of an infection brings into prominence the importance of the constitutional resistance. This factor is a very important one in this disease, and one of which there is danger of losing sight, if exclusive attention is directed to the effect of the disease. Energetic and routine treatment by powerful drugs may damage this resisting power of the individual more than they influence the disease. With opportunities of studying different methods of treatment, it has appeared to me that in the dangerous and complicated cases of visceral rheumatic fever the best results are obtained by palliative measures; rest, careful feeding and nursing, moderate doses of salicylates for pain and arthritis, stimulants for cardiac failure, small doses of opium for cardiac distress and insomnia, mild tonics for convalescence— in brief, a watchful but gentle treatment. Under such measures some of the most desperate cases have rallied, and fewer, I believe, have gone to the bad with the sudden development of urgent symptoms. Since there is so much evidence to show that the tonsils may be a site of infection, the treat- ment of the throat is important, and will be carried out oia general principles. A gargle containing salicylate of soda may be used, or glycerine of carbolic acid, or formalin, and some have advocated guaiacol as especially valuable. In spite of this treatment of the throat, the diplococci in the other local lesions may doubt- less multiply, and no treatment of the throat alone can suffice. Repeated attacks of tonsillitis may result in a permanent enlargement for which tonsillotomy may be needed. The operation, though needful for the general health, will not prevent further attacks of rheumatic fever, and on several occasions to my knowledge an attack has rapidly followed this operation, though presumably these were coincidences. Otitis media, with which an attack of rheumatic fever may sometimes begin, must be treated on the usual lines. Treatment of Hyperpyrexia.—No time should be lost in giving antipyretic drugs, but the patient should be placed in a bath at the temperature of 65° with ice applied to the head, and the water rapidly cooled by adding blocks of ice. If the temperature of the patient is, for example, 107°, when it has dropped to 102° he should be taken out, rapidly dried, and wrapped in a blanket. As a rule the temperature will continue to fall for a while, but should it rise again this treatment must be repeated. It is a severe remedy for a desperate condition, and throughout the time of immersion the patient must be most closely watched, and be removed if there are signs of collapse, and stimulants freely administered. If the temperature should fall below normal after removal, hot bottles must be placed round outside the blanket, and stimulants given. Ice- packing is valuable when a bath cannot be managed. A sheet is wrung out in iced water, the patient swathed in it, and then rubbed with blocks of ice. The effect must be closely watched, for it is a drastic remedy. When convalescence has been established, the question arises as to the length of time complete rest should be insisted upon. Much must depend upon the condition of the heart and the character of the attack. The guiding rule is caution, for premature exertion appears to be especially liable to cause a relapse. On the whole, it is better to be free from any arbitrary time limit, for this introduces the danger that when this time is past the patient will throw caution to the winds. If the pulse, the temperature, and the threatenings of active rheumatic manifestations are taken as guides, the return to an active life can be gradually attained, and every forward step carefully tested. The tedious nature of the illness makes the patient chafe at the enforced rest, and considerable tact in the graduation of the amount of physical exertion is required from the medical attendant. The opposite danger, that of prolonging too much the period of rest, is also a real one. An invalid life is fostered, and on the young to whom movement is a natural tonic needless confinement is positively harmful. When recovery is completed, and if expense is no object, it is well for the patient to leave England during the next year for a dry, warm, and equable climate during the autumn, winter, and early spring; and if a child, great care, especially during the autumn, will be necessary for some years to come. Warm clothing, warm socks, and thick boots are very necessary for rheumatic subjects in cold and damp weather, and woollen garments should be worn all the year round. There remains the question of tonics. Strong preparations of iron, although there may be considerable ansemia, are not well borne. Qui- nine and arsenic in alkaline solutions, the milder preparations of iron, or the time-honoured pre- scription of ammonia and bark, are more useful. An Antitoxin Treatment.—It is a natural hope that in future some antitoxin may be found which will be serviceable in treatment, and already antistreptococcic sera have been used. Unfortunately, treatment by antitoxins, except in diphtheria, have not yet met with wide success, and rheumatic fever with its numeroi;s local lesions differs widely from that disease. Further,