PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 16 it is not the apex which presses on the chest wall but a part of the front of the right ventricle. In character it is felt as a forward impulse of the tissue occupying the fifth interspace, which develops suddenly, persists for a short period, and then suddenly disappears. In many forms of heart disease its character is markedly altered. The cardiac impulse may be recorded graphi- cally by means of any of the various forms of cardiograph, one of the simplest consisting of a receiving and recording tambour connected by means of a tube (Fig. 122). The form of the trace varies according to the part of the heart upon which the button is placed, but it has the character shown in Fig. 123 if the button is upon the cardiac impulse. At the moment of ventricular systole the lever is suddenly thrown up to a certain level pressure in a cavity is to connect it to a vertical tube and to see to what height the fluid in the cavity is raised. If such a method be applied to the ventricles of the heart, the blood in the tube undergoes such sudden and Fia. 123.—Cardiograijhic trace, a to d. Ventricular contraction. enormous changes in level that it is impossible to get accurate results. The same objection applies to the method of connecting the heart with a U tube iilled with mercury. When this is done the changes in pressure are so sudden and so extensive that the mercury cannot respond to them on account of its inertia. Various means of obviating these diffi- culties have been devised. One of the best is to allow the changes of pressure to act upon a small elastic membrane tested against known pressures. A tube is thrust through the wall of the heart and connected with a tambour covered by a membrane to which a lever is attached. A. Pressure in the Great Veins (small dotted line in Fig. 124).—When the auricles contract, the flow of blood from the great veins into these chambers is \ ^' T\ arrested, and, as a result, the pressure in the veins rises. As the auricles relax the blood is sucked from the veins and the pressure falls, but as the auricles fill up it asrain rises. When the ventricles relax Fig. 122.—Cardiograph consisting of a receiving tambour, witli a button and SUCk blood from the auncles, blood on tlie membrane whicli is placed upon the cardiac impulse, and recording tambour connected with a lever. (a to b). From this point it suddenly falls slightly {h to c), but is maintained during the ventricular systole above the abscissa (c to d). At the end of the ventricular systole, as the heart falls away from the chest wall, the lever falls to its original level {d to e). In many tracings a small rise of the lever may be seen just before the great upstroke. This corre- sponds to the contraction of the auricles. In various diseases of the heart the cardio- gram is materially modified. Hence it is important to have a clear conception of the various parts of the trace. The elucidation of the various parts of the cardiogram is only possible after careful study of the other changes in the heart during the cycle. 6. Changes in the Intracardiac Pressure.— These can be studied only in the lower animals. The most common way of determining the again flows in from the great veins and the pressure falls, again to rise as the auricles and veins are both filled up, towards the end of the pause. B. Pressure in the Auricles (dash line in Fig. 124).—At the moment of auricular contraction there is a marked rise in the intra-auricular pressure. When the auricular systole stops, the pressure falls rapidly, i-eaching its lowest level when the ventricles are throwing their blood into the arteries. From this point the pressure in the aui'icles rises until the moment when the ventricles relax, when another fall in the pressure is observed. The pressure remains about constant from this point until the next auricular contraction. C. Pressure in the Ventricles (continuous line in Fig. 124).—The intra-ventricular pressure suddenly rises at the moment of ventricular systole to reach its maximum. From this it falls, but the fall is gradual, and is interrupted by a more or less well-marked period during