PREGNANCY, PHYSIOLOGY OF—CHANGES IN THE MATERNAL ORGANS 229 Changes in the Urine.—The kidneys are some- what enlarged and the urine is increased in quantity, but only in its watery elements. With the exception of the chlorides the solid constituents become less and less in amount as pregnancy advances. The phosphates and sul- phates are supposed to be diminished owing to their being used in the growth of the foetus. At one time it was held that a white, grumous, soft "pellicle," known as kiestein, was diag- nostic of pregnancy. It forms in the urine about thirty-six hours after it is passed, and about the fifth day it breaks up and falls to the bottom of the glass; but it is now known that a similar substance is sometimes found in the urine of the non-pregnant and even in the urine of men. During the last few weeks of pregnancy sugar may sometimes be detected in the urine, and during lactation it may be found in large quantities, diminishing and ultimately dis- appearing when the milk disappears from the mammse. This temporary glycosuria must not be confounded with true diabetes, which is a serious complication of pregnancy. Authorities differ as to the frequency of albuminuria during pregnancy. Schroeder maintains that in all pregnant women the urine contains albumin varying in amount from 3 to 5 per cent; others give the percentage as high as 20 or 30. No doubt albumin is detected in the i;rine of a very large number of pregnant women, and to many of these the albuminuria is physiological and ti'ansitory. This "tempor- ary albuminuria " is much more marked during labour than during pregnancy, and the longer the labour the more likelihood of albuminuria. It is probably due to reflex vaso-motor spasm of the renal arteries resulting from uterine con- tractions. The definite causes of albuminuria at any stage of pi'egnancy are really very uncertain, although many theories have been advanced to account for the condition. Increased intra- abdominal pressure, resulting in interference with the circulation in the vena cava and its branches, has been supposed to account for some cases, but this has never been proved. Most admit that the mechanical pressure of the gravid uterus on the renal vessels predisposes to the disease, and there are several facts which tend to uphold this theory. Albuminuria is more common in the later months of pregnancy than during the first five months. Those cases occur among primiparte in whom the abdominal walls are tense and unyielding. Farther, albuminuria is common in twin pregnancies, and when pregnancy is complicated by the presence of a fibroid or ovarian tumour. It is less frequent during pregnancy than during labour, when pressure is greater, and it dimin- ishes after the birth of the child. The theory of increased intra-abdominal pressure is the oldest of all, but that this is sufficient to excite the disease in kidneys previously healthy has never been proved. It has been suggested that the albuminuria which sometimes occurs in the early months of pregnancy before there is any possible stagnation from pressure is purely reflex. It corresponds to the reflex irritation of the stomach which results in morning sickness. The hydrsemic state of the blood is supposed to account for some cases of albuminuria, and in others the increased arterial tension may be the exciting factor. There is no doubt that in still others the albumin found in the urine of pregnant women is simply the result of vesical catarrh. It is not necessary to do more than mention these cases in which pregnancy occurs in women suffering from chronic Bright's disease with albuminuria, and those who having previously suffered from kidney disease show albumin in the urine during pregnancy. These cases have quite a different relation to pregnancy from those already referred to. The presence of albumin in the urine of a pregnant woman is always a cause of anxiety. If it is persistent and abundant, and especially if it occurs early in pregnancy, the outlook is grave, and careful treatment to prevent more serious complications is urgently required. Clinically, albuminuria suggests the possibility of uraemia and eclampsia. Diagnosis of Pregnancy Introductory 229 Symptoms— Subjective . . . . ■ .230 Objective . . . . ■ 231 The Differential Diagnosis . . . 233 Diagnosis of Probable Date of Con- finement ..... 234 Diagnosis of the Death of the F(etus . 235 Diagnosis of Primiparity and Multi- parity ...... 235 The changes produced in the maternal organ- ism by the condition of pregnancy are so very definite, and opportunities for observing them are presented so often to every medical man, that it might seem impossible for any one exercising due care to make a mistake when he is called upon to decide as to the presence or absence of pregnancy in a given case. That mistakes, however, are frequently made in this connection is a matter of common experience. Such mistakes are doubtless most often due to carelessness on the part of the practitioner—a too hasty examination of the patient, or a too hasty conclusion drawn from subjective phen- omena only, without any physical examination. On the other hand, when it is remembered that Tardieu has said (and our knowledge has not advanced much since then) that except the bruit of the foetal heart, the signs of pregnancy,