497 REFRACTION Myopia exists whenever the antero-posterior axis of the eyeball is too long for the focal length of the eye. Pencils of light must enter the eye divergent if they are to be focussed on the retina of a myopic eye. Compare what is said about Fig. 7. There are, optically considered, four kinds of myopia— {a) From abnormal suspension of the lens. (6) From densification of nucleus. (c) From the shape of the cornea. {d) From elongation of the globe. The first is well known as a transitory consequence of a blow on the eye, and is then termed traumatic myopia. Probably the suspensory ligament is stretched by the blow, and allows tlae lens to come forward a little until its elasticity is re-established. It may also allow the anterior surface of the lens to assume an abnormal rotundity. Possibly a similar myopia may exist from defective development of the zonule apart from traumatism. The second is freqiiently met with up to 3 or 4 D, or sometimes much higher, in the early stages of nuclear cataract. The third is the least considerable class, and is discovered when the ophthalmometer shows the cornea to be strongly curved. Care should be taken not to overlook a low degree of conical cornea. The fourth kind of myopia is by far the commonest. In low degree it sometimes occurs in a purely developmental form, the eye being simply larger than usual in all its dimensions. Happily in these cases the liquid pressure within the eye (which is generally about that of a inch of mercury) is less than usual. Were it not so the short sight would be almost certain to increase, in virtue of the simple hydrostatic law, to be remembered in this connection, that for a given pressure per unit area the strain on the coats is proportionate to the number of unit areas exposed to the pressure. It is very likely that some of the myopias which are assumed to be developmental because of the uniform enlargement of the eye are also really stretched eyes, for a study of hydrophthalmos and infantile glaucoma shows that the eyes of children are more distensible in all diameters, whereas those of (at any rate myopically predisposed) adults are more distensible at the posterior pole. One reason for this is, that the more careful and prolonged inspection of near objects, which comes with growing years, re- quires greater action of the extra-ocular muscles, which support the globe everywhere except at the posterior pole, where the muscular cone leaves it to be supported only by retrobulbar fat. Unlike hypermetropia, myopia is the rarest thing in infancy, and generally does not show itself till between eight and twelve years of age. The educational period of life from twelve to VOL. VIII eighteen is the most dangerous for its increase, since it requires prolonged convergence of the eyes upon near objects, with more or less stooping, and often in an atmosphere which is not favourable to the vital i-esisting power of a fibrous structure like the sclera. Cohn has shown that short sight is rarer in the country than in towns, in elementary schools than in advanced schools, in both than in the universities, in the lower forms of a school than in the higher, and in the lower classes of society than in the higher. The indications are obvious :— (1) To correct the refractive error, in order to prevent stooping and to lessen the con- vergence. (2) To see that school-rooms are well lighted and ventilated. (3) To have desks and seats adjustable to the height of each several scholar, according to well-defined rules. (4) To use books well printed on unglazed paper, and to teach bold, upright writing. (5) To discourage long evening work, and bookworm habits out of school hours, and to forbid impositions. (6) To start, if possible, special schools, or separate departments in schools, for short- sighted children, with modes of teaching adapted to give a useful education with the minimum strain on the eyes. It is hardly fair to expect the methods of an ordinary school to be altered for the benefit of a small minority, or to allow unsound eyes to compete with sound ones.^ (7) To exchange sedentary habits for fresh air and exercise, and to guard against inactivity of the liver and primee vife, which have a deleterious effect on short sight. (8) During the attacks of choroidal conges- tion, to give up near work, and advise suitable medical treatment. (9) To avoid working the eyes under condi- tions of bodily fatigue, or with insufficient food. Returning to the first of these indications, there is no doubt that, except in higher patho- logical cases (of which more anon), the full optical correction constantly worn is the best treatment in the case of young myopes, and afl:brds the greatest security against much progress of the affection. An exceptioia to this has to be made in the case of children whose calling in life would be seriously compromised by the wearing of glasses ; army candidates, for instance, may be advised to abjure glasses altogether until medical examina- tion is over, since their use undoubtedly leads to forgetfulness of that ingenious dexterity of unravelling the details of hazy objects acquired by nearly all uncorrected myopes. 1 An attempt in this direction has been made near Oxford by Mr. Doyne, and is being made in Bournemouth by the writer. 32