228 PREGNANCY, PHYSIOLOGY OF—CHANGES IN THE MATERNAL ORGANS circulation, and the amount of abdominal pressure, all involve increased cardiac action, and this shows itself not in more rapid action of the organ, but in hypertrophy and in increased arterial tension. There is also during pregnancy a tendency to thrombotic and varicose condition of the veins. Durozier states that the heart continues enlarged during lactation, but if a woman does not nurse her child it diminishes in size immediately after labour. Women who have borne many children often have a permanent enlargement of the heart. The liver is also enlarged, and in women who have died suddenly after labour fatty degenera- tion has frequently been found. The spleen shows signs of marked hypertrophy, which is easily understood when one considers its important relation to the quantitative and qualitative changes in blood. It is increased in size from 140 grms. to 180 grms. The thyroid gland participates in the general change of increased growth, and is almost constantly somewhat enlarged during gestation. Changes in Respiration.—Increase in size of the uterus mechanically interferes with the function of respiration. The long axis of the thorax is diminished by the upward displace- ment of the diaphragm, and this in the later months causes some embarrassment to breathing, but to a certain extent there is compensation in the fact that the lower thorax is increased in breadth. During the last two weeks of pregnancy breathing becomes easier owing to the " sinking" of the uterus and its contents. In the early months a certain amount of dyspnoea is occasionally observed, but this is merely one of the numerous nervous reflex phenomena which so often complicate pregnancy. Since there is more blood in the body during gestation there is naturally an increase of the elimination of carbonic acid gas. Changes in the Digestive System and in Nutrition.—In the early months of pregnancy the appetite is generally fitful, while nausea and vomiting within certain limits are so frequent as to be regarded as physiological. The varieties, causes, and significance of morning sickness are described under "The Diagnosis of Pregnancy" (p. 230). The ap- petite of the pregnant woman, even though often capricious to the very end of gestation, generally increases so that the general nutrition is iuaproved. An increase in weight takes place irrespective of the enlargement of the uterus and the presence of a foetus. On an average the gain is from ten to fifteen pounds, or about one-thirteenth of the whole weight of the body. Excluding the generative organs the adipose tissue is increased more than any other tissue of the body. The deposits are specially marked in the mammary glands, in the abdominal walls, in the hips, and in the omentum. The whole figure therefore becomes fuller and rounder. The temperature of the body is not materially changed dui'ing pregnancy, although, according to some authorities, it is slightly lower in the morning than during the day. Changes in Bone.—Besides the alterations in the bones and joints of the pelvis already referred to, changes in the bones of the skull have frequently been observed in women who have died during parturition. Rokitansky pointed out that irregular bony deposits were found on the under surface of the skull between the bone and the dura mater, and more especially developed on the parietal and frontal bones. These osteophytes consist of calcium carbonate, traces of phosphates, and organic matter. They have been discovered in rather more than one-half of all the cases examined of women dying after the fifth month. Some authorities consider that they are by no means peculiar to pregnancy, so that whether they are physiological or pathological has not been accurately determined. During pregnancy there is always a risk of delayed union in fractured bones. Owing to the growth and inclination forward of the growing uterus the centre of gravity is altered so that the pregnant woman is obliged to thi'ow her head and shoulders backwards in order to preserve her equilibrium in the erect posture. The curves of the spine are increased, and this tends to an alteration in gait, which is especially marked in short women. Changes i7i the Skin.—The pigmentation of the skin has already been referred to, but other changes are constant phenomena. The sebaceous and sweat glands acquire increased activity. Further, according to Barnes, " women who had been losing their hair when not pregnant found its growth restored during pregnancy, and falling out again after labour." According to some authorities, the changes of pigmentation are associated with a temporary hypertrophy of the suprarenal capsules. Changes in the Nervous System. — During pregnancy the nervous system becomes especi- ally sensitive, and hence numerous reflex pheno- mena are observed. Rigors, flushings, fainting, hysterical disorders, disturbance of the special senses, and neuralgia are frequent. In the majority the mental state is one of despondency, especially in the early months, but often as gestation advances towards completion this state gives place to one of " buoyancy and a sense of joyful expectation." It is quite the exception to meet with women who feel unusually well and cheerful throughout the whole pregnancy. Most look forward with great anxiety to labour, fearing the worst for themselves and for their child. Changes in disposition ai-e frequently very marked. A woman who is naturally amiable and bright may during pregnancy become moody and disagreeable, and the reverse is also sometimes observed.