POST-MORTEM METHODS 212 in a few hours, and at the same time are so hardened and dehydrated that they may be passed on very rapidly to paraffin or celloidin. The alcohol dissolves out any fat contained in the tissues. {d) Corrosive Sublimate.—The solution is a saturated one (7 "5 per cent) in normal salt solution (0"75 per cent sodium chloride). This reagent is very generally applicable. Nuclei stain well, fat and bacteria are preserved and perfectly fixed, so that they stain well. Pieces of tissues up to one-half of an inch in thickness, fix throughout in eighteen to twenty- four hours. After fixation they must be left in running water for twenty-four hours to remove excess of the fixative. They are then transferred to gum and sugar, i.e. a mixtiire of 4 parts gum and 3 parts simple syrup, or if the tissue is to be embedded in paraffin or celloidin, the procedure is as follows:— Pass the tissue through successive strengths of 30, 60, and 90 per cent alcohol or spirit. To these add sufficient tr. iodi. to give a distinct brown colour. The iodine combines with any mercuric chloride left, producing the iodide, which is more readily dissolved out than the perchloride. If perchloride be left in the tissiies it appears in the sections as disfiguring black crystals. The tissues show less shrinkage if they are gradually dehydrated, being left in each strength of alcohol for at least twelve hours. From the pure spirit, or 90 per cent alcohol, they are transferred to absolute alcohol to com- plete dehydration and thereafter the stages are the same for all methods. After twelve hours transfer fi-om absolute alcohol to an agent such as cedar oil or chloro- form, which will mix with alcohol and dissolve paraffin. Leave in cedar oil until transparent, or in chloroform until the tissue sinks, then transfer to paraffin, melting at 46° C, or about 116° F. ; change after two hours into paraffin, with a higher melting-point 51° C, or about 123° F., and leave until all odour of the cedar oil or chloroform has disappeared. To keep the paraffin melted a small water-bath, regulated at about 52° C, or 125° F., is required. The initial cost is not great. After penetration is complete embed in freshly melted 51° C. paraffin in a paper box, or in the | |-shaped adjustable apparatus sold with the microtomes. Cool rapidly, holding the whole under cold water as soon as the surface of the paraffin has solidified, so that the paraffin may not form large crystals which might injure delicate tissues. Embedding in Celloidin.—From the absolute alcohol transfer to a mixture of equal parts of alcohol and ether over night, then transfer to a solution of celloidin, in equal parts of alcohol and ether, of the consistence of thin cream. Cork this up and leave for twelve to twenty-four hours. Then transfer to a solution of the consistence of thick syrup for other twelve to twenty-four hours, and mount on a block of wood or cork of suitable size. Place a layer of thick celloidin solution on the block, put the impregnated tissue on this, and paint on a layer of celloidin all round and over it. As this dries apply other layers until the tissue is well supported. As soon as the whole attains some firmness transfer to and keep in 80 per cent methylated spirit, which hardens the celloidin. 2. Section-cutting.—(a) From gum and sugar, or from 5 to 10 per cent formaldehyde. Use a Cathcart ether-freezing microtome. Remove excess of fluid from the tissue, place in a drop of mucilage of acacia B.P., on the zinc plate, and apply mucilage all round to support it. Freeze until the whole is of the consistence of cheese, and cut thin sections. Instructions for using the microtome are furnished with each instrument. Transfer the sections from the knife with a camel's-hair brush to a bowl of cold, boiled water or normal salt solution, and mount on a clean slide. The advantage of using boiled water is that, as all the air is boiled out of it, no troublesome air-bells form under the section as it floats in the water. (6) Tissues embedded in paraffin. Blocks prepared in the manner described may be cut with the Cathcart microtome, being fixed on a special carrier by heating it gently, applying the block, and cooling the whole in water, or they may be cut with the Cambridge rocking microtome. In both cases directions are supplied with the instrument. (c) Tissues embedded in celloidin. These may be washed out in water, soaked with gum and sugar, and cut like tissues embedded in gum and sugar, care being taken to keep the knife moist with 80 per cent spirit. Transfer the sections as cut to weak spirit. In the case of celloidin better sections are obtained if the knife is carried obliquely thi-ough the block, hence a long, heavy knife is to be pre- ferred to the razor ordinarily used in the Cathcart microtome. If mounted on blocks, the blocks are fixed in a special carrier, supplied, if desired, with the Cathcart microtome, or special microtomes adapted for celloidin may be employed. 3. Staining and Mounting of Sections. Sections cut by any of these methods except the paraffin method may be stained immediately on the slide or in a watch-glass. Paraffin sections are floated out on the surface of boiled water just under the melting-point of the paraffin, and mounted on clean slides which may be albuminised. To Alhuminise Slides.—Take the white of an egg, shake it up thoroughly with nine parts of distilled water, add about 1 per cent of salicylic acid to retard decomposition, and filter.