156 PNEUMONIA—BACTERIOLOGICAL SECTION Other Bacteria associated with Acute Pneumonia— Friedldnder's Pneumohacillus . . . 161 Influenza Bacillus . . . .161 Flague Bacillus . . .161 Diphtheria Bacillus . . . .161 Typhoid Bacillus . . . .161 Septic and Suppurative Conditions . 161 See also Adrenal Glands, Adrenalin (Use in Pneumonia); Alcohol {Clinical Uses, Indica- tions) ; Alcoholism {Complications); Anaes- thesia, General Physiology {Ether - Pneu- monia) ; Anaesthesia, Ether {Broncho - Pneu- monia) ; Arteries, Ligature {Common Carotid, Complications following Ligature); Asphyxia {Causes, Catarrhal Pneumonia); Brain Affec- tions of Blood-Vessels (Thrombosis, Causes); Bronchi, Bronchitis (Acute and Chronic, Diag- nosis) ; Colon, Diseases of {Me7nbranous Colitis, Secondary, Causes); Cough (Clinical Varieties); Delirium Tremens (Prognosis, Pneumonia); Ex- pectoration (Sputum in Various Diseases, Pneu- monia) ; H^MATEMESis (Diagnosis): Hemo- globinuria (In Fevers); HEMOPTYSIS ; Hiccough (Etiology); Hydropathy (Acute Diseases, Pneu- monia) ; Immunity (Serum in Pneumonia); In- fluenza (Effects, Pneumonia); Insanity, Nature AND Symptoms (Etiological Varieties, Pneumonia?); Joints, Diseases of (Pyogenic Diseases in Pneu- monia) ; Leucocytosis (In Pneumonia) ; Liver, Tropical Abscess (Diagnosis); Lung, Tubercu- losis OF (Precedent Illnesses, Pneumonia) ; Lungs, Pulmonary Fibrosis (Chronic Interstitial Pnen- monia) ; Lungs, Gangrene of (Etiology); Lungs, Syphilis of (Congenital Pneumonia); Mediastinum (Growths, Diagnosis); Meninges of the Cerebrum (Ac%Lte Meningitis, Diagnosis); Meningitis, Epidemic Cbrebro-spinal (Co7npli- cations) ; Mumps (Complications) ; Nephritis (^Etiology, Clinical Features); Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis (Etiology); Nose, Acces- sory Sinuses, Inflammation of (Etiology); Oxygen (Uses); Peritoneum, Acute Peritonitis (Diagnosis) ; Plague (Syinptoms); Pregnancy, Affections and Complications (Pulmonary Dis- turbances, Pneiimonia); Pulse (In Pneumonia); Purpura (Symptomatic, Infectioiis); Rheum- atism, Acute (Symptoms, Pne-mnonia); Rheum- atism in Children (Symptoms, Pneumonia); Sup- puration (Etiology, Micr^o-organisms); Syphilis (Visceral, Lungs); Therapeutics, Serum Ther- apy (Antipneumococcic Serum) ; Tuberculosis (Broncho-pneumonic Tuberculosis) ; Typhoid Fever (Symptoms and Complications) ; Typhus Fever (Symptoms and Diagnosis); Urine, Path- ological Changes in (Aceionuria in Pneumonia). Introductory.—The term pneumonia is properly applied to any inflammatory process affecting the lung tissue, just as pleurisy is employed to designate any inflammation of the pleural membranes, or as hepatitis and nephritis are applied to any inflammation of the liver and kidneys respectively. Moreover, as there may be acute or chronic parenchymatous or inter- stitial forms of hepatitis and of nephritis, so there may be corresponding forms of pulmonary inflammation or pneumonia. In the more im- portant foi'ms of chronic pneumonia the inter- stitial changes especially predominate, while in the acute pneumonias the more characteristic lesions are as a rule due to the implication of the pulmonary parenchyma. Any acute inflam- mation of the lung, therefore, is an acute pneumonia, but it is usual to recognise several varieties. Sometimes the classification is based on an- atomical differences in the resulting lesions. When the inflammatory process is specially con- centrated around the smaller bronchi, and follows their lobular distribution, the term broncho-pneumonia or lobular pneumonia is employed. The term catarrhal pneumonia is often applied to the same process, owing to the fact that the exudation into the pulmonary alveoli largely consists of catarrhal cells. More rarely the acute inflammatory changes select the connective tissue framework of the lung, giving rise to an acute interstitial form of pneu- monia, such as is met in some forms of influenzal pneumonia and in pleuro-pneumonia of cattle. A third type is recognised under the name of acute lobar, or fibrinous, or croupous pneumonia, when the inflammatory process involves large continuous tracts of lung tissue, such as an entire lobe, or the greater part of a lobe, and when the exudation into the pulmonary alveoli is at first and for the most part composed of fibrin. As a matter of fact, however, there are commonly met forms of acute pneumonia which do not conform to any one of these anatomical types, but present very variable and mixed lesions. Even among those which are rightly classified as lobar forms of acute pneumonia there may appear very striking differences as regards the precise anatomical lesion. Other forms of acute pneumonia are differ- entiated with special reference to the causal agent associated with them. Such specific forms as the tubercular inflammations of the lungs, or such forms as the suppurative pneumonia of pyaemia, present, as a rule, definite types with characteristic anatomical lesions. But when we try to apply this ajtiological differentia to other forms of pneumonia we encounter the difficulty that the same cause may give rise to anatomic- ally different pulmonary lesions. Thus a group of acute pneumonias due to the pneumococcus would include both broncho-pneumonic and lobar types. A similar difficulty is presented by the forms of pneumonia that appear in in- fluenza, plague, and many other conditions of microbic infection. It is, therefore, better, in place of attempting an exact definition or a precise outline of the scope of this article, merely to state that in discussing the pathology of