KETINA AND OPTIC NERVE 522 and in renal disease; it is particularly conspicu- ous in cases of chronic retinal atrophy. (2) The arteries alone may be small in cases of optic neuritis (late stages), of embolism, arterial thrombosis, and of quinine poisoning; occasionally also in general anajmia {e.g. after great hccmorrhage), where the veins appear normal, or even large from being flattened, owing to their reduced intravascular tension. Earely, the arteries are temporarily reduced in size from spasm of their walls. (3) In ve7ious distension these vessels are large, rounded, abnormally dark, and tortuous. This condition may be dependent on local or general interference with the venous blood-flow. When the cause is local the distension is some- times very great, and haemorrhages are common. Among local causes may be mentioned optic neuritis, venous thrombosis, and pressure exerted by a diseased overlying retinal artery, as the most common. The retinal veins may be dis- tended as part of a general venous congestion in the head, from pressure on the great veins of the neck. Again, the retinal congestion may be part of a general venous distension, either temporarily, as from coughing or straining at stool; or continuously, as in mitral disease and pvilmonary emphysema. (4) Occasionally we find irregularity in the size of both arteries and veins in different parts of their course over the retina. For example, an arterial branch of normal size near the disc may soon quickly dwindle without having given off any branch meanwhile ; on tracing it farther out, this vessel, or one of its subdivisions, again swells out to its normal calibre, or even larger. In the same fundus the veins will usually also exhibit marked irregularities in size where crossed over by arteries, an interruption seem- ingly taking place at this point, and the vein being distended on the peripheral side of the crossing. In these cases there is hyaline de- generation with enlargement of the outer and middle arterial coats, and the pressure thus produced on the underlying thin-walled vein interferes with its blood-flow. The appearances described are usually associated with granular kidney (see later). hicreased tortuosity is more common in the veins than in the arteries of the retina. Such a course is always found in congested retinal veins. When in the plane of the retina the exaggerated tortuosity is easily observed ; an antero-posterior curve also occurs, and is recog- nised by the vein being there darker than else- where, and by a local absence of the central light-streak. The arteries are usually unduly tortuous when affected by the hyaline degeneration mentioned above. In exceptional cases, normally sized vessels, both arteries and veins, show great tortuosity; this condition has been observed in connection with a liability to severe headaches in some hypermetropic persons. Changes in the vascular walls are often recog- nisable with the ophthalmoscope :— (1) A comparatively common form presents the appearance of distinct narrow white lines bounding each side of the red blood column. It is more frequent in the arteries than in the veins, and is then due to thickening of the adventitia, or to a deposit of white cells around the vessel. The perivascular lymph space of the veins may be the seat of a similar deposit. This vascular change often follows inflammation of the retina, as, for example, in the form accompanying papillitis, and is best seen on the larger vessels at and near the disc. But the same appearance may occur independently of any inflammation. Occasionally the entire breadth of the artery looks white, or there may be merely a narrow red line in the centre; yet in such a case there is no necessary loss of vision, since the lumen of the vessel may not be involved. (2) In some cases the arteries have a much brighter reflex than usual, with a brilliant central light-streak. This appearance is usually accompanied by the other phenomena mentioned as characteristic of hyaline degeneration. (3) Aneurysms may occur either on the larger branches of the central artery, or on the smaller twigs and capillaries of the retina. The latter are of clinical importance from their having been found associated with a similar condition of the small vessels in the brain. Visible pulsation in one or more of the large vei7is on the disc is not uncommon in normal eyes; it is best seen just at the edge of the physiological pit. It also occurs, pathologically, from the same causes that produce arterial pidsation. This latter is never normally present, but occurs in aortic regurgitation, and in increased intraocular tension, whether from disease, or mechanically produced, as by finger- pressure from without. It has also been ob- served in acute ansemia from profuse hsemor- rhage. Arterial pulsation is usually visible only in the large vessels on the disc, but in aortic cases it may sometimes be traced peri- pherally in branches of comparatively small size. A peculiar form of visible circulation in both arteries and veins is seen not infrequently in recent embolism of the arteria centralis (see later). Abnormalities in the Pigment of the Retina.—A congenital deficiency of this pig- ment is general over the entire fundus, and is familiar to us in partial or complete albinism. Pathological changes also frequently take place in this layer. Over a greater or less fundus area the pigment may be removed from its normal situation, and we thereupon get an un- usual reflex, differing in character according to