145 PLEURA, DISEASES OF avoided by the operator taking care to insert the instrument at a point where the signs of the presence of fluid are unequivocal. Treatment. — This is purely surgical {see "Surgical Section," p. 148). Hydrothorax Dropsy of the pleural cavity or serous effusion not due to primary changes in the pleura is a common condition, and is not unfrequently overlooked. It is common in heart disease, Bright's disease, or other chronic renal malady, and may be found in connection with aneurysm, thoracic tumours, chronic hepatic disease, and anaemia. The nature of the effusion has been already considered. It is usually distinguishable from inflammatory or bacterial effusion by its lower specific gravity, its relative poorness in corpus- cular elements, and its tardiness in coagulating. The physical signs are not to be distinguished from those of ordinary pleural effiision, but friction is not present, and as the effusion is often double the heart may remain in its normal position. It is remarkable, however, how often the effusion is unilateral in cases where a bilateral effusion might be expected. A uni- lateral effusion is quite common in cardiac cases, perhaps more common than a double effusion. A very usual condition in these cases is to find a considerable effusion on one side, with a slight and barely recognisable effusion on the other. In renal disease the effusion is more often on both sides. Passive effusion into one or both pleural cavities is a very usual explanation of the aggravation of symptoms in a cardiac case, and should always be carefully borne in mind. In such patients, however, so long as they are confined to bed and making little or no exertion, a considerable degree of effusion may take place into one or both pleural cavities without any marked increase of dyspnoea. The treatment of hydrothorax, apart from general medical measures, is aspiration, which should always be practised where there are any active symptoms. The prospects of spontaneous absorption are rarely good. They are, perhaps, best in cardiac cases. HiBMOTHORAX An effusion of pure blood into the pleura probably occurs only as the result of trauma, or the rupture of an aneurysm, but effusions of more or less sanguineous serum (more rarely pus) are not very infrequent. The causes of this condition have been already indicated, viz. tuberculosis, malignant disease, the exanthemata, hsemophilia, scurvy, cirrhosis of the liver, and possibly inflammatory changes in profoundly debilitated subjects. The physical signs do not present anything dis- tinctive, but the associated conditions may give rise to a somewhat complicated clinical picture. VOL. VIII The chief interest of these cases lies in the prognostic significance of sanguineous effusion. This varies within wide limits, according to the aetiology, but for obvious reasons the prognosis is rarely favourable. A satisfactory issue, though not often to be anticipated, is by no means unknown. The writer has known com- parative recovery with restoration of health for several years to follow a case of large sanguine- ous effusion in a young gentleman who was probably tubercular. As regards treatment, aspiration is not to be lightly undertaken, but the propriety of the operation may be considered in cases where the amount of the fluid is causing serious incon- venience. Several cases are on record where the operation has been followed by recovery, but it may be attended by considerable risks. The presumption is, on the whole, against this procedure in hsemothorax. Pneumothorax Air in the pleural cavity is almost always associated with fluid—rarely serum, usually pus. That air is sometimes effused into the pleural cavity and subsequently absorbed without appre- ciable exudation is probable, but the clinical importance of these cases is slight. Practically pneumothorax and pyo-pneumothorax are almost convertible terms. In a large majority of cases pneumothorax is a consequence of tuberculosis. J^tiology.—It is probable that pneumothorax is never a primary affection. Laennec believed the contrary, and held that it might arise by the exhalation of air from the pleura or by the decomposition of fluids in the pleural cavity. These views have not been confirmed by sub- sequent observers. Whether bacteriology will throw much new light on the aetiology of pneu- mothorax is still doubtful. E. Levy describes a bacillus which he has found in the exudate of pneumothorax, and to which he is disposed to attach importance. It is a short, thick bacillus with rounded ends, anaerobic, non-motile, and readily stained by aniline dyes. It occurs frequently in pairs, but often, also, in long chains or threads. Spore-formation was not observed to occur. At a temperature of 37° C. the growth of this bacillus proceeds actively, with a remarkable evolution of gas. The two chief causes of pneumothorax are (1) the breaking down of a subpleural nodule in the course of pulmonary tuberculosis, and (2) the discharge of an empyema through the lung or the chest wall. Of remaining causes trauma and pulmonary gangrene are the least infre- quent. Emphysema has been educed as a cause in a few instances, and inasmuch as bullae con- taining air are common enough on the pleural surface in this disease, there is no antecedent improbability that pneumothorax might result. If these bullae rupture it seems likely that the air is often reabsorbed, and that pneumothorax 10