PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 49 oxygen from the lymph, because of the very low pressure of oxygen in the protoplasm, and because the protoplasm has an affinity for oxygen as for other nourishing substances. (2) As a result of this, the oxygen pressure in the lymph falls and becomes lower than the oxygen pressure of the blood plasma, and thus the gas passes from the blood through the capillary walls to the lymph. How far this is simply the result of mechanical diffusion, and how far it is carried on by the vital action of the endothelium of the capillaries, we do not know. (3) As a result of the withdrawal of oxygen from the plasma, the partial pressure round the erythrocytes is diminished, and tlie blood being at a high temperature, a dissociation of oxyhse- moglobin takes place, and the oxygen passes out into the plasma, leaving reduced hsemogiobin in the erythrocytes. 27id. The Passage of Carhon Dioxide from Tissues to Blood,—The tissues are constantly producing carbon dioxide, so that it is at a high tension in them—about 60 mm. Hg. In the blood the carbon dioxide is combined with the sodium and is thus at a low tension. Hence there is a constant passage of carbon dioxide from the tissues to the blood. C. Extent of Respiratory Interchange The extent of the respiratory interchange in the lungs is governed by the extent of the in- ternal respiratory changes—i.e. by the activity of the tissues. Every factor which increases the activity of the metabolic changes in the tissues increases the intake of oxygen and the output of carbon dioxide by the lungs. It may be studied by enclosing an animal or a man in an air-tight case or chamber through which air of known composition is passed in measured quantity and analysed as it is with- drawn. This may be done by making the air pass through vessels containing sulphuric acid to absorb the water and caustic potash to fix the COj, and absorbing the oxygen by pyro- gallate of soda. In a normal man under average conditions the amount of exchange in twenty-four hours is about— Litres. Grms. Oxygen taken . . 540 770 Carbon dioxide excreted 432 850 Carbon „ ... 230 That is, in one hour, on an average, he ex- cretes 20 litres of COg and absorbs 22 litres of 0. The rate of exchange per unit of weight is more active in the child than in the adult. 1. Muscular Work.—Since muscle is the most abundant and active tissue of the body, muscu- lar work more than anything else increases the respiratory changes {see vol. vii. p. 514). 2. Food.—The taking of food at once sets up active changes in the digestive apparatus. The VOL. VIII muscular mechanism is set in action and the various glands secrete. As a result of these processes the respiratory interchange is at once increased. That the increase is dependent upon the increased functional activity of the digestive organs is shown by the fact that it is produced by the taking of substances which cannot be absorbed and used in the metabolic processes of the body. But while the immediate increase in the re- spiratory interchange following the taking of food is due to the increased activity of the digestive structures, there is also an increase due to the utilisation in the body of the food taken. Whether proteins, fats, or carbohy- drates, or all of these, form the diet, more oxygen is consumed and more carbon dioxide is given off than during starvation. The pro- portion between the oxygen taken and the carbon dioxide excreted is not, however, the same with all these food-stufFs. If the food is rich in carbon and poor in oxygen, a greater quantity of oxygen must be taken to oxidise it than if it is rich in oxygen. The chief constituents of the food contain the following percentage amounts of oxygen and of carbon :— Oxygen. Carbon. Carbohydrates . .53 40 Proteins ... 22 52 Fats .... 12 76 Hence on a carbohydrate diet the respiratory CO quotient (p. 46) is high, about 0"9 to 1, while on a fatty or protein diet it is low, 0"7 to 0-8. 3. Temperature.—If the temperature of the body be increased, the metabolic processes be- come more active and the respiratory inter- changes are increased. But if the temperature of the air round the body be elevated, the meta- bolic processes may be diminished in activity, and the respiratory exchange decreased. 4. Light.—It has been shown that light in- creases the metabolic changes, and therefore the respiratory activity. 5. Slee2).—Since in sleep the animal is in a condition of muscular rest, since light is ex- cluded from the eyes and since food is not taken, the respiratory exchanges are less active during sleep than during the waking hours. Similarly, in the long winter sleep of certain animals (hibernation), these factors, as well as the diminished temperature of the body, cause a great reduction in the intake of oxygen and output of carbon dioxide. It is thus the internal which governs external respiration. Merely increasing the number or depth of the respirations has only a transient influence on the amount of the respiratory interchanges. Ventilation.—The rate of gaseous exchange 4