526 RETINA AND OPTIC NERVE Central retinitis prom exposure to direct SUNLIGHT has been occasionally met with in persons who have looked at an eclipse of the sun without adequate protection. Immediately after the exposure there is some loss of central vision, in the form of a central scotoma. In very severe cases this remains permanent, but generally improvement slowly takes place. Ophthalmoscopically the macula is found to be more darkly pigmented than usual, with some large granular deposits near the fovea, which latter is visible as a greyish yellow spot. In severe cases with permanent scotoma there is probably some destruction of the outer segments of the cones, as well as change in the pigment epithelium. The treatment should consist mainly in the use of dark glasses. Leeches or counter-irritants applied to the temple have been recommended. Central Retinal Change in Inpants.— Mention must be made of this rare affection, which has important clinical and pathological relations. About the age of three or four months the child is noticed to be listless, with weakness of the muscles and apparently im- perfect sight. The ophthalmoscope shows a dense grey, slightly raised opacity occupying the macular region, in the centre of which is a bright red spot—a condition like that found in embolism of the central artery. The disc may even now be pale, and becomes progressively more atrophic. Soon the child becomes quite blind, with pupils inactive to light; there is an apathetic state and partial muscular paralysis ; finally, nourishment fails and death takes place about the age of two years. The ophthalmo- scopic changes are always present in both eyes. The disease sometimes affects several members of a family. Pathologically, atrophic changes have been found in the neurones of the cerebral cortex, and presumably similar changes occur in those of the retina. No treatment is of any avail. Central Retinal Afpection from Toxic In- fluence.—The particular form of visual failure known as toxic amblyopia has generally been considered under the diseases of the optic nerve, as the recognised changes in the fibres seemed to indicate that the affection was a variety of retro-ocular neuritis. Recent knowledge re- garding the constitution of the neurone has rendered necessary a reconsideration of the hitherto accepted pathological nature of this particular affection of the nerve fibres, and there is good reason to believe that the large macular ganglion cells in the retina first suffer under certain toxic influences, and that the implication of their axons or nerve fibres is in reality secondary. There is no certain know- ledge as to the exact manner in which the ganglion cells are thus affected—whether it be a direct poisonous influence communicated to them through the circulation, or whether the nutrient arteries are themselves first damaged by the poison conveyed in the blood. Tobacco is by far the most common toxic agent in this disease, and the subjects are nearly all males at or beyond middle life. As a rule, these persons have used strong, coarse tobacco, and have either smoked or chewed (sometimes both) a comparatively large amount. In a considerable proportion of the cases there is a history of recent mental shock or worry, which probably predisposes the nervous system to suffer, but which also frequently induces a larger consumption of the drug. Other toxic agents, that either initiate similar effects or pre- dispose the nerve cells to suffer from tobacco, are lead, alcohol, and bisulphide of carbon. Dia- betes, and perhaps also granular kidney, have a similar influence. The visual failure is progressive, occurs in both eyes, and is most marked in bright lights. On examination, the defect is in the central part of the visual field, occupying the fixation area and a little to its outer side, where there is marked colour-blindness for green and red. Ophthalmoscopic examination commonly shows slight pallor of the outer third of the disc. In some cases a few round, brightish yellow dots of moderate size are observed at the macula, but it is doubtful how far these are associated with the toxic changes, as similar dots are not un- common in this region in persons with normal vision. In a very considerable number of cases —especially those occurring in oldish men when there is a delayed recovery of vision under treat- ment—evidences of hyaline degenerations of the retinal arteries are observable. The treatment consists principally in an absolutely strict abstinence from tobacco in every form, and in avoiding any other influence that may be fairly judged detrimental. Good food and fresh air are important, and it is usual to give strychnine in small doses. Recovery of sight rarely commences for several weeks, but then as a rule proceeds rapidly and satisfactorily (see also "Amblyopia," vol. i. p. 115). Retinitis proliferans is a term applied to an affection of the fundus, in which thick, white strands of connective tissue cover part of the retina, encroaching on the vitreous, with vessels of new formation visible over them. The con- dition is probably always due to the organisation of previous large retinal hfemorrhages. Retinitis pigmentosa designates a disease in which a certain group of symptoms and a definite course are usually found in association with pigmentary changes in the retina. The term has long been in general use, and has been retained here on that account; but it must not be understood that this afiection is inflammatory, and we will find that it may occur without the usual pigmentary changes. The change is properly a chronic progressive atrophy of the retina ; it may occur either as a primary