PREGNANCY, PHYSIOLOGY OF—CHANGES IN THE MATERNAL ORGANS 227 month onwards hypertrophic and other changes take place in the mammae, resulting in gradual increase of not only glandular tissue, but of fat and connective tissue. The periphery of the breast is first affected. It becomes irregularly hard, and presents knotty masses which are enlarged acini of the glandular structures. Later similar hyperti'ophic changes spread along the ducts of the gland, towards the nipple, till ultimately the whole organ is affected. The distension of the skin leads to the formation of striae similar to those seen on the abdominal wall, and through the tightly drawn skin a net- work of veins can be seen, especially at the margins of the organs. The nipple becomes enlarged, more sensitive, and more readily erectile, and the pink areola surrounding it is replaced by an areola which varies in colour according to the complexion of the woman. In fair women it is of slight brownish colour, whereas in brunettes it is dark brown, or almost black. At the end of two months the areola is slightly raised, and the sebaceous follicles become more and more enlarged till they form distinct tubercles on the surface of the darkened area. These are known as Mont- gomery's tubercles. The usual diameter of the mammary areola is from one to one and a half inches; but in many cases, from the fifth or sixth month onwards, a " secondary areola " surrounding the primary is formed. This is not so deeply coloured, and is not always very marked. From the third month pressure on the gland causes the exudation of a thin fluid known as the colostrum ; it increases in quantity as the gestation advances, and is the product of the newly formed and of the developed pre-existing gland cells. It is an albuminous fluid, and contains fat cells, epithelial cells, and typical " colostrum corpuscles." II. General Changes Pregnancy creates important changes in the different systems and organs of the body. The blood and the nervous system are affected to the greatest extent, but practically all the functions of the body are more or less modified. Since the pregnant woman has to perform nutritive and excretory functions for herself and her foetus, extensive changes in the general system must occur. So long as these changes take place within certain limits health is preserved and improved, but when carried to excess they lead to serious complications. The Toxaemia of Pregnancy.—Much has of late been written on this subject. It is now believed by some authorities that many of the hitherto supposed physiological symptoms of pregnancy are the result of slight toxaemia, and that the graver complications of pregnancy, labour, and the puerperium are due to intense toxic infection. Vomiting, salivation, pigment- ary changes in the skin, neuralgia, irritability of temper, etc., have generally been supposed to be normal since they are so common, but possibly they are due to the presence of toxins. As pregnancy advances, the general economy becomes adapted to the new conditions, and the symptoms of poisoning pass off. The emunctory organs work at higher pressvire, but if one of them gives way, then symptoms of toxaemia become intensified, and may become so serious as to endanger the patient's life. Eclampsia is the most striking example of severe toxic infection. It is no longer regarded as a disease primarily of the kidneys. Post- mortem examination reveals important changes in the liver similar to those produced by certain poisons. In many cases of eclampsia no patho- logical changes have been found in the kidneys, and the clinical evidence of disturbance of the renal function rapidly disappears after labour. The causes of these toxaemic conditions during pregnancy, labour, and the puerperium are varied, and include heredity, climate, previous renal disease, dyspepsia, hepatic disorders, anaemia, and tight lacing. Early recognition of toxic symptoms is important, as active treatment is frequently necessary to prevent serious complications. Changes in the Blood and Circulation.—At one time it was supposed that the chief change in the blood during pregnancy was one of " plethora " of all its constituents, and " bleed- ing " was a very common operation during the later months of pregnancj^ Now it is recog- nised that though the actual quantity of blood in the body is increased, the change in the nature of the blood is towards anaemia and hydrtemia. The watery elements, the white blood coi'puscles, and the fibrin are increased; but, on the other hand, the amount of albumin and of red blood corpuscles is diminished. The water increases from 791-1 per 1000, which is the normal amount in the non-pregnant con- dition, to 819-9 in the last month of utero- gestation. The red blood corpuscles diminish from 126 to 104-49. The albumin lessens from 70-5 to 66-1. The fibrin, which in the non- gravid state is 3 to 1000, lessens until the sixth month; then it begins to increase until, at the end of the ninth month, it is 4-3. The iron in the blood is necessarily diminished in amount, since the number of red cells is so decreased. There ar-e, of course, great vari- ations in individual cases. The hygienic surroundings and the nature of the food of the pregnant woman will materially affect the blood changes. In 1828 Larcher first pointed out that a physiological hypertrophy of the heart took place during pregnancy. This increase in size is limited to the left ventricle and is such that the whole weight of the heart increases one- fifth during gestation. The increase in the total amount of blood in the body, the placental