PRESCRIBING, AND METHODS OF ADMINISTERING DRUGS 299 Incompatibility ..... 303 Pharmaceutical . . . .303 Pharmacological . . . 303 Chemical...... 306 Methods of Administering Drugs— I. Bt/ the Mouth . . . .306 II. By Mucous Membranes in General 307 A. Throat and Respiratory Tract . . . .307 B. Pedum .... 308 C. Genital Passages and other Mucous Membranes . 308 III. By Cutaneous Surface . . . 308 IV. By Injection through the Skin . 310 Prescribing General Principles. — Many years ago Dr. Paris summarised the aim of prescribing—that is, the art of combining medicinal svibstances —as:—(1) To augment, correct, or modify the action of a drug.; (2) to obtain the joint action of two or more diverse remedies; (3) to form a new remedy; (4) to obtain a suit- able form. Applications of these principles readily suggest themselves ; thus combinations of purgatives each of which operates in a different way are more effective than single drugs, while in the same manner chloral and opium together act as a hypnotic with less disturbance to other functions than is produced by a sufficient dose of either given separately. Again, a cough mixture may contain morphia to allay the cough, and ipecacuanha to facilitate expectoration, while combinations containing ferrous sulphate and an alkaline carbonate form a new remedy—ferrous carbonate. There is no doubt that skill in the art of writing prescriptions is cultivated to a less extent now than in a former generation : for this there are several reasons. A more scientific therapeutics has led to the use of simpler formulse, and prescriptions containing only one or two drugs are much more common than in the past. Polypharmacy has declined, and with it some of the rather mystical importance at- tached to an " elegant " prescription. At the same time, the constant influx of new synthetic remedies, and the exploiting of what should be the domain of the physician by the manufactui'- ing chemist in the production of combinations of drugs in forms more attractive and convenient than the six-ounce mixture, have still further contributed to inducing practitioners to order quasi-proprietary remedies (and excellent many of these preparations are) in preference to think- ing out an appropriate prescription for the case in hand. No one will deny that the modern pharmacy is a great advance upon the old, and instead of railing at the general use of drugs in tablet and other forms by the public, the duty of the medical man is to correct his own ways, and to adapt to his own prescriptions the newer methods of the pharmacist, as a very little forethought will enable him to do. Weights and Measures.—The weights and measures in common use in this countiy for prescriptions are the grain (gr.), the drachm (5j = 60 grs.), and the ounce (|j = 8 drs.). The scruple (5j = 20 grs.) is practically obsolete. For fluid measure we have the minim (iTlj), the fluid drachm (fl. 53 = 60 min.), and the fluid ounce (fl. sj = 8 drs). These are troy or apothe- caries' weight; in the Pharmacopoeia only the avoirdupois weight is recognised, which differs from the preceding in having 437i grs. to the ounce, and 16 ozs. to the pound, instead of 480 grs. and 12 ozs. respectively. In prescribing, however, the apothecaries' or troy system is used. Advisable though the decimal system may be for other purposes, it has not as yet, in this covmtry, made much headway as a means of writing pi-escriptions. One practical draw- back to its use is that, while to reap the full advantage of a decimal prescription the mixture must be made up in ten or a multiple of ten doses, yet since we order the doses to be taken at stated intervals of time, which is reckoned on a duodecimal system, it is generally more convenient to give three, four, six, or twelve doses, to be taken at corresponding hourly intervals, than to give five or ten. On the other hand, it is very often convenient to order drugs for external application as percentages, in which case we may either adopt the metric system of weights, or presci-ibe so many parts per cent of each ingredient, and direct the dispenser to dispense an ounce or more of the combination. Tables for the conversion of the decimal to other systems, and vice versa, are so readily accessible that it is unnecessary to give them here. It should, however, be remembered that a gramme is just about equal to 15 grains (15'432) and a cubic centimetre to 17 minims (16-9), while a milligramme equals -^^ grain and a centigramme about ^ grain. As domestic measures the tablespoon, dessert- spoon, and teaspoon are commonly treated as the equivalents of half an ounce, two drachms, and one drachm respectively. The use of a cor- rectly graduated measuring glass is, however, ad- visable. An ordinary tablespoon contains about six drachms, a dessertspoon three di-achms, and a teaspoon one and a half drachms; an after- noon teaspoon holds somewhat less than a drachm. A liqueur glass holds practically an ounce, and a sherry glass about two ounces and a half. These measures are fairly constant. The size of a drop varies greatly according to the viscosity of the fluid ; it is a very rough measure of a minim. Thus while water gives 50 or 60 drops to the drachm, alcohol, tinc- tures, and fluid extracts give about 140, and chloroform gives 250. It may at least be said, therefore, that when drops are counted as minims there will be no likelihood of overdosage.