68 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES but the precipitate is soluble in excess. It is therefore a nucleo-protein. In some animals a certain amount of mucin is also present. Inorganic Constituents.—The most abundant salt is calcium phosphate. Phosphate of iron is present in traces. Sodium carbonate, calcium carbonate, and sodivim chloride are the other chief salts. 2. Floiv of Bile. — The bile, when secreted by the liver cells, may accumulate in the bile passages and gall bladder to be expelled under the influence of the contraction of the muscles of the ducts or of the pressure of the abdominal muscles upon the liver. The flow of bile into the intestine thus depends upon — 1st, The secretion of bile; 2nd, the expulsion of bile from the bile passages. It is exceedingly difficult to separate the action of these two factors. The flow of bile in the human subject has now been studied in several cases in which the surgeon has had to make a fistula into the gall bladder through which all the bile secreted escaped and could be collected. The flow of bile begins in intra-uterine life before the twelfth week, and it continues with- out intermission throughout the whole of life, even during very prolonged fasts. The taking of food increases the flow of bile, and the extent to which it is increased de- pends largely on the kind of food taken. In the dog a protein meal has the most marked effect, a fatty meal has a marked eff'ect, and a carbohydrate meal hardly any effect. The increased flow of bile following the taking of food does not reach its maximum till six or nine hours after the food is taken, and some observers have found that the period of maxi- mum flow is even further prolonged. Pavloff found in dogs, in which a biliary fistula had been made leaving the opening of the bile duct in the mucous membrane of the intestine, that an ex/pidsion of bile follows the taking of food and the secretion of pancreatic juice, and Starling finds that the flow of bile is increased by the injection of secretin. It thus tends to run parallel with the flow of pancreatic juice. When the individual is taking a liberal diet, the secretion of bile appears to be greater than when the diet is low. In fever there is a very marked fall in the secretion, the fluid flowing from a fistula be- coming colourless and almost devoid of bile salts and pigments. Certain drugs markedly modify the formation of bile—the salts of the bile acids stimulating the liver to form more solids and to secrete more water, the salicylates acting in much the same way, and all drugs which cause haemolysis — i.e. the solution of the pigment of the erythrocytes — producing an increased formation of bile pigments. Influence of Nerves upon the Flow of Bile.— (a) Expulsion of Bile.—There is good evidence that nerve fibres pass to the muscles of the bile passages and that they may cause an ex- pulsion of bile by stimulating them to contract. (Jj) Secretion of Bile.—There is no evidence that nerve fibres act directly upon the secretion of bile. This appears to be governed by the nature of the material brought to the liver by the blood and by the activity of the liver cells. It is an example of function regulated by chemical substances rather than by a nerve mechanism. 3. Mode of Formation of Bile.—It has been seen that the bile salts and pigments are actu- ally formed in the liver cells, and there is good evidence that the water of the bile is not a mere transudation but is the product of the living activity of these cells. The pressure under which bile is secreted may be determined by fixing a cannula in the bile duct or in a biliary fistula and connecting it with a water manometer. In man the pressure is as much as 20 to 30 mm. Hg, while the pressure in the portal vein of the dog is only 7 to 16 mm. Hg. 4. Nature and Functions of Bile.—Bile is not a secretion of direct importance in digestion. It has practically no action on proteins or carbohydrates, and its action on fats is merely that of a solvent, and possibly by its action on the surface tension of the intestinal contents. Pavloff' maintains that it activates the lipase of the pancreatic juice, and others have found that it increases the activity of trypsin and diastase. It may thus be considered as an adjuvant to the action of pancreatic juice. Its secretion in relationship to food does not in- dicate that it plays an active part in digestion. It is formed during intra-uterine life and during fasting, and it is produced many hours after food is taken, when digestive secretions are no longer of use in the alimentary canal. Diges- tion can go on quite well without the presence of bile in the intestine, except that the fats are not so well absorbed. The composition of bile strongly suggests that it is a waste product. The pigment is the result of the decomposition of haemoglobin and the acids are the result of protein disintegration. All these facts seem to indicate that bile is the medium by which the waste products of hepatic metabolism are eliminated, just as the waste products of the body generally are eliminated by the kidneys. Bacterial Action in the Alimentary Canal.— With the food and saliva numerous micro-or- ganisms of very diverse character are swallowed. It has been suggested that the leucocytes formed in the lymphoid tissue at the back of the mouth and pharynx attack and destroy such organisms, but so far definite proof of this is not forthcoming. When the food is swallowed, the micro-organisms multiply for some time in the warm moist stomach, and