507 RESPIRATION See also Alcohol (^Special Physiology, Respira- tion) ; An/ESTHESIa {Arrest of Respiration); Asphyxia (Resuscitation); Asthma {Symptoms) ; Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Anaemia, Symptoms; Occlusion of Vessels, Symptoms; Cheyne-Stokes Respiration) ; Brain, Surgery of {Compression, Symptoms; Cerehral Abscess, Symptoms); Brain, Tumours {Localising Sym- ptoms, Respiration); Chest, Clinical Investiga- tion OF {Respiration); Children, Clinical Ex- amination OF {Respiratory System); Climate {Effect on Respiration); Hemoptysis {Treatment, Artificial Respiration); Hemiplegia {Respiratory Movements); Hysteria {Disorders of Respiratory Organs); Labour, Stages and Duration {Second Stage, Phenomena); Larynx {Laryngeal Stridor and Laryngismus Stridulus); Lungs, Diseases OF; Lymphatic System {Status Lymphaticus); Meningitis, Tuberculous {Respiratory Symp)- toms); Meteorology {Influence on Health); Physiology, Respiration ; Pneumonia {Sytnp- toms); Pulse; Shock (Treatment); Stammering (Treatme7it); etc. Absorption of oxygen and elimination of carbon dioxide, two conditions essential for the main- tenance of the vitality of every animal organism, together constitute the process of respiration. In all the higher animals there is (a) external respiration, the interchange between the gases of the blood and those of the water or air, whereby 0 is absorbed and CO^ eliminated, and (b) internal respiration, the interchange between the gases of the blood and lymph on the one hand and those of the tissues on the other, the blood thereby gaining CO2 and parting with 0. In man the lungs are the chief seat at which 0 is taken into the organism and at which CO2 is eliminated. The visceral layer of the pleura, covering the outer surface of the lung, is in intimate contact with the parietal pleura forming the innermost layer of the thoracic wall. The lungs them- selves are highly elastic, and from the time of birth onwards are distended with air. But if air enter the pleural cavity—in which there is normally a state of negative pressure—the lung collapses or recoils in consequence of its elasti- city, and part of the thorax, formerly filled by distended lung, is then filled with air. In respiration there is an alternating indraw- ing of air into and expulsion of air from the lungs, these processes being termed respectively inspiration and expiration. Inspiration. —As the intrapulmonary pressure is reduced by any enlargement of the thoracic capacity, each thoracic expansion will be followed by the drawing of air through the trachea and bronchi into the lungs. Inspiration is the re- sult of muscular action ; contraction and con- sequent descent of the diaphragm increases the vertical diameter of the thorax, the transverse diameter of which is enlarged by the elevation and rotation outwards of the ribs, whilst an increase of the antero-posterior diameter is due to a movement upwards and outwards of the ribs, costal cartilages, and, it may be, of the sternum also. The chief muscles of ordinary inspiration are, apart from the diaphragm, the external intercostals, which, on contraction, elevate all the ribs except the first. Less im- portant inspiratory muscles are the intercartil- aginous portions of the internal intercostals, the scalenus anticus, serratus posticus superior, and the levatores costarum. Many other muscles may act as muscles of forced inspiration, but of these the most important are the sterno-mastoids, scaleni, trapezei, and pectoral muscles. Thoracic expansion during inspii'ation is not of uniform character in all persons. In young children in- spiration is mainly caused by the diaphragm, the type of respiration being termed abdominal; in men respiration is mainly of the diaphrag- matic or abdominal type, whereas in women the inspiratory expansion is most marked in the upper part of the thorax, this being known as thoracic type of respiration. Expiration under ordinary circumstances is a purely passive movement. The action of the inspiratory muscles having ceased, the distended lung partially collapses, and in doing so draws inwards the thoracic wall, which moreover tends to return to the state prior to the inspiratory movement owing to the elastic recoil of the costal cartilages, to the action of gravity acting on the chest wall, and also to retraction of the abdominal muscles. In emphysema, deficiency or loss of the pulmonary elastic tissue is one of the main causes of the difficulty in expiration, and of the consequent permanent over-distension of the lungs. Forced expiration is effected by various muscles, of which the most important are the muscles of the abdominal wall; yet all nniscles which depress the ribs or compress the abdominal viscera, the serratus posticus in- ferior, the interosseous portions of the internal intercostals and the sacro-lumbalis, for example, are accessory muscles of expiration. Respiratory Rhythm aiid Rate.—In normal respiration, inspiration and expiration succeed each other rhythmically, and the length of time occupied by inspiration in relation to that of ex- piration is on an average represented by the ratio 5:6; whilst after the completion of expir- ation there is a short pause. The most marked deviation from the normal respiratory rhythm is seen in Cheyne-Stokes respiration (see p. 509). In man the number of respiratory movements per minute is about 14-20; but even within physiological limits the frequency of respiration varies greatly in accordance with such factors as age, posture, exercise, and so forth, the fre- quency being, for example, greater in infancy and childhood than during adult life, and being decreased in any individual when he assumes the recumbent posture.