240 PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—AFFECTIONS OF OVUM AND DECIDUA Affections and Accidental Complications— (a) Of Generative Organs . .264 (b) Other than Generative Organs . 273 (c) Death . . . . . .280 Haemorrhage dm-ing Pregnancy . . 281 Abortion. See Vol. i 25 Ectopic Gestation. See Vol. iii. . . 13 Affections of the Ovmn and Decidua Introductory Physiological Rksumb . 240 Affections of the Decidua . . .241 Hypertrophy Polypoid Hypertrophy Atrophy Inflamriiation Hcemo7-rhage Fleshy Mole Spurious Abortion Malignant Disease (Deciduoma) Affections of the Chorion . . . 245 Vesimdar Degeneration Myxoma Fihrosum Epithelioma {Chorioma) Affections of the Amnion . . . 247 Hydramnios Oligohydramnios Inflammation Rupture Cysts The nomenclature of the subject is so varied that a short restatement of the structure of the ovum and decidua during early pregnancy is needed in order to avoid repeated definitions in the course of the following discussion. The lining membrane of the uterine cavity consists of a delicate stroma containing round connective tissue cells. This tissue is placed directly upon the uterine muscle, is richly sup- plied with small blood-vessels, and is perforated by numerous pits or crypts. Its free surface is covered by a single layer of columnar epithelial cells, which dips down into and lines completely the crypts, follicles, or glands of the uterine mucosa. It is this membrane which, during pregnancy, undergoes certain definite changes and forms the decidua. While the mucosa is about thick just after menstruation, it grows until it is about ^ in. thick before each menstrual flow begins. When pregnancy be- gins and arrests menstruation, the lining of the uterus continues to grow until it reaches its maximum thickness of about ^ in. during the third month of gestation. The so-called glands dilate, and the blood-vessels also enlarge and multiply. The round connective tissue cells proliferate rapidly, and many of them increase greatly in size and assume irregular shapes, thus becoming the "decidual cells" charac- teristic of the mucosa of pregnancy. These decidual cells are most numerous near the free surface of the membrane, which soon loses its covering of epithelial cells. The epithelium lining the glands also degenerates, and for the most part disappears, except from their deepest portions, where it remains alive in sufficient quantity to secure the regeneration of the epi- thelium of the whole uterine cavity after the end of pregnancy. Three layers can be recog- nised in the uterine mucosa as modified by pregnancy: (1) A superficial compact layer, with many decidual cells lying between the glands, which are not much dilated, but whose epithelium is flattened, degenerated, and largely lost; (2) A spongy or reticulated layer, whose glands are very widely dilated, and their epi- thelium much degenerated, some decidual cells, and many spindle cells and fibrils of connective tissue occupy the spaces lying between the dilated glands; (3) A deep layer of delicate connective tissue containing the undilated blind ends of the glands, whose epithelium is un- changed. On examining a pregnant uterus at any time before the end of the third month we find that a uterine cavity still exists, and is lined completely by decidual mucosa. The ovum lies embedded in the compact layer of the decidua on one wall of the cavity, its whole surface being in contact with the decidual con- nective tissue, and not with maternal epithelium. The decidua underlying the ovum—i.e. between it and the uterine wall—is called the decidua serotina, and is the site of the developing placenta. That covering the ovum, and lying between it and the uterine cavity, is the decidua reflexa. The rest of the decidua lining the uterine cavity, and not at first touching the ovum, is the decidua vera. During the third month the ovum, covered by the decidua reflexa, begins to occupy the whole space within the uterus. The reflexa and vera now come into close contact, obliterating the uterine cavity. The two become adherent, and blend into a single layer of tissue. After the third month the decidua becomes less vascular and pale in colour; it is flattened out and thinned by the pressure of the growing ovum. Fatty and other degenerations occur in the decidual cells. The vessels become thrombosed by the proliferation of their endothelium, and before full time is reached the decidua is reduced to a thin and unimportant layer of maternal tissue covering the ovum, and coming away with the secundines at parturition by separation through its super- ficial layer, leaving the deep layer with the embedded ends of the uterine glands as the sole covering of the muscular wall of the uterus. The ovum and decidua can most readily be studied by examining " complete abortions" expelled about the end of the second month of pregnancy. Such specimens consist of the ovum enclosed in the decidua. On removing the decidual covering (decidua vera and decidua reflexa, with the remains of the uterine cavity between them being recognisable as a rule) the ovum itself is seen to be a sac covered all over