PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 46 b'IG. 150.—To show relations of cardio- pneumatic movements, ^4, to the cardiac cycle, B. In A the up- strokes are expiratory, the down- strokes inspiratory. the right side of the heart, so it must pass on into the left side. More blood is thus driven into the arteries, and the pressure rises. As soon, however, as the excess of blood has been squeezed out of the lungs, the contracted state of the vessels further retards the passage of blood to the left side of the heart and assists in dim- inishing the ar- terial pressure. Influence of the Action of the Heart on Respiration.— The heart lies in the thorax sur- rounded by the elastic lungs. As it contracts and dilates it must alternately pull upon and com- press the lungs, and thus tend to cause an inrush and an out- rush of air—the cardio-pneumatic movements. If a simultaneous tracing of the heart-beat and of the movements of the air column be taken, it will be seen that (1) at the beginning of ventricular systole there is a slight outrush of air from the lungs, probably caused by the blow given to the lungs by the suddenness of the systolic movement. (2) This is followed by a marked inrush of air corresponding to the outflow of blood from the ventricles, and caused by the fact that the contracting ventricles draw on and expand the lungs. (3) Succeeding this is a slower outrush of air corresponding to the active filling of the ventricles during the beginning of ventricular diastole. (4) Lastly, during the period of passive diastole, the cardio- pneumatic movements of air are in abeyance. These cardio-pneumatic movements are of great importance in animals which hibernate. During their winter sleep the ordinary respira- tions almost stop, but a sufficient gaseous inter- change is kept up by these cardio-pneumatic movements. In the examination of the heart sounds they must be borne in mind, because, if there is any constriction in a small bronchus near the heart, the rush of air through it may give rise to a murmuring sound, in character very like a cardiac murmur and synchronous with the heart's action. On making the patient cough, such a murmur at once disappears. B. Interchange between the Air breathed and the Blood in the Lung Capillaries I. Effect of Respiration upon the Air breathed. —To determine this, some method of analysing the air exhaled must be employed. For this purpose the expired air is caught in a graduated vessel in which its amount can be measured; N 79 0 a/ then a measured amount is forced into a chamber containing caustic potash, by which the CO2 is ab- sorbed, and the volume of air is again measured. It is now forced into a chamber containing pyrogallate of soda, which absorbs the oxygen and is again measured. The residue is nitrogen. In this way the amount of the gases present is determined. The following table shows the average per- centage composition of the air inspired and the air expired (Fig. 151)— Per Cent of N. 0. CO2. Inspired air . .79 21 0 Expired air . . 79 17 4 i.e. about 4 per cent of oxygen is taken from the air, and about 4 per cent of carbon dioxide is added to it. In man the amount of carbon dioxide given off is smaller than the amount of oxygen taken up. The proportion between the is called the Respiratory Quotient, 0 taken up and it is thus less than unity—usually about •8 to "9—that is, for every five vol- umes of oxygen taken up only four volumes are given off in carbon di- oxide, the remain- der being com- bined with hydrogen to form water. The various factors modifying this quotient will be considered while dealing with the extent of the respiratoi-y changes (see p. 49). Expired air is saturated with watery vapour, and therefore it usually contains more water than inspired air. Expired air also contains small amounts of organic matter, which may give it an offensive odour. These may possibly be to a small extent formed in the lungs, but they are to a greater extent produced by putrefactive change in the mouth and nose. It is probable that the accumulation of these products in the air is one of the causes of tbe injurious effect of the "foul air " in overcrowded spaces, but the evidence on this point is inconclusive. Expired air is usually warmer than inspired air, because usually the body is warmer than the surrounding atmosphere. When, however, the temperature of the air is higher than that of the body, the expired air is cooler than the inspired. This may be illustrated by the figures of an experiment— Temperature of Expired Air. 30° C. 37° C. C. 38° C. C. 38-5° C. Fig. 151.—Shows the composition of inspired and expired air. Temperature of Inspired Air. 6-3° C. 17-19° C. 41° 44° II. Effect of Respiratio7i on the Blood.—To understand these changes in the air we must