50 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES governs the necessary supply of fresh air. It has been found that if the supply is insufhcient, headache and sleepiness are apt to supervene, and experience has taught that each adult should have 2000 cubic feet of fresh air per hour. If 1000 cubic feet of space is allowed to each individual, the ordinary methods of ex- change of air — through the chimneys and through chinks in windows and dooi's—should supply this quantity of air. Asphyxia.—This is the condition caused by any interference with the supply of oxygen to the blood and tissues. It may be induced rapidly and in an acute form by preventing the entrance of air to the lungs, as in drowning or suffocation, or by causing the animal to breathe air deprived of oxygen, or by interfering with the flow of blood through the lungs, or with the oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood. It is slowly induced in a less acute form when the muscles of respiration fail as death approaches. In acute asphyxia there is an initial stage of increased respiratory effort, the breathing be- coming panting, and the expirations more and more forced. The pupils are small, and the heart beats more slowly and more forcibly, while the arterioles are strongly contracted, and a marked rise in the arterial pressure is pro- duced. When the vagi are cut the slowing of the heart does not occur. Within a couple of minutes a general convulsion, involving chiefly the nuiscles of expiration, occurs. The intes- tinal muscles and the muscles of the bladder may be stimulated, and the faeces and urine may be passed involuntarily. Then the respira- tions stop, deep gasping inspirations occurring at longer and longer intervals. The pupils are dilated, and consciousness is abolished. The heart fails, and thus, although the arterioles are still contracted, the pressure in the arteries falls. Finally, the movements of the heart cease and death supervenes. Voice In connection with the respiratory mechanism of many animals, an arrangement for the pro- duction of sound or voice is developed. This is constructed on the principle of a wind instru- ment, and it consists of (1) a bellows, (2) a windpipe, (3) a vibrating reed, and (4) reso- nating chambers. In man and other mammals the bellows are formed by the lungs and the thorax. The trachea is the windpipe. The vocal cords in the larynx are the vibrating reeds, and the resonating chambers are the pharynx, nose, and mouth. A. Structure of the Larynx.—The points of physiological importance about the structure of the larynx are the following :— 1. Cartilages (Figs. 154, 155).—The ring-like cricoid (Cr.) at the top of the trachea is thick- ened from below upwards at its posterior part and carries on its upper border two pyramidal cartilages triangular in section—the arytenoids (Ar.). These articulate with the cricoid by their inner angle. At the outer angle the posterior and lateral crico-arytenoid muscles are attached. From their anterior angles the vocal cords arise and run forward to the thyroid. Fig. 154.—Side view of the cartilages of the larynx. Cr., Cricoid cartilage; Ar., right arytenoid cartilage; Th., thyroid car- tilage. The dotted line shows the change in the position of the thyroid by the action of the crico-thyroid muscle, and the stretching of the vocal cords which results. The thyroid cartilage (Th.) forms a large shield which articulates by its posterior and inferior process with the sides of the cricoid, so that it moves round a horizontal axis. To the upper and anterior part, the epiglottis or cartilaginous lid of the larynx is fixed. 2. Liga7nents.—The articular ligaments re- quire no special attention. The true vocal cords are fibrous ligamentous structures which run from the arytenoids forward to the posterior aspect of the middle of the thyroid. They con- tain many elastic fibres and are covered by a stratified squamous epithelium and appear white and shining. The vocal cords increase in length as the larynx grows, and in adult life they are gener- ally longer in the male than in the female, and the whole larynx is larger. 3. Muscles.—The crico-thyroids take origin from the antero-lateral aspects of the cricoid, and are inserted into the inferior part of the lateral aspect of the thyroid. In contracting they approximate the two cartilages anteriorly, and render tense the vocal cords (Fig. 154). The crico-arytenoidei postici arise from the back of the cricoid and pass outwards to be inserted into the external or muscular process of the arytenoids. In contracting they pull these processes inwards, and thus diverge the anterior processes and open the glottis (Fig. 155). The crico-arytenoidei laterales take origin from the lateral aspects of the cricoid, and pass backwards to be inserted into the muscular processes of the arytenoids. They pull these forward and so swing inwards their anterior processes and approximate the vocal cords (Fig. 155).