461 RABIES changes are (according to SchafFer) found in the medullary segments, which have a nerve connec- tion with the seat of the bite. In the white substance the axis cylinders become enlarged, either denuded or contrariwise, surrounded by a thick veil of myeline. The peripheral parts of the nerve, especially the nerves of the bitten limb, undergo degeneration. A study of the lesions of the other organs is equally interesting and characteristic. Pharyn- gitis, congestion of the salivary glands, gastric congestion, hepatic congestion, etc., are all noticeable. An examination of the stomach proves of use in dogs: the presence of unusual objects in the viscera, of whatever kind, is most essential in a retrospective diagnosis of rabies. The bronchial mucous membrane and the lungs are congested, the kidneys are often the seat of nephritis. The lymphatic glands are enlarged ; the blood grows diffluent and dark in colour, as it does in grave infectious fevers; haemorrhages occur in the different organs. Bacteriology.—Exi^erimental Rabies.—-The experimental study of rabies has been most exhaustively investigated by Pasteur and his students. Though it is still impossible to state definitely the precise nature of the rabic virus, their able researches have found out the seat of the virus in the organism, its mode of intro- duction and propagation, and the best means by which its virulent activity may be modified. This study brings us to the practical application of the Pasteur vaccine. Seat of the Virus in the Organism.—It was long supposed that the saliva of rabic dogs and human beings was virulent, and Grunner and Salm Reiferschidt in 1813 furnished proofs of this. Novard and Roux later have proved that this is only supposition, and show that virus in the saliva is capricious and variable, and greatly depends on the point of inoculation. In the case of a dog inoculated in the eye, the saliva became virulent three days before the appearance of the nervous phenomena, and in a dog inoculated in the neck the virus became virulent thirty hours before the animal developed rabic symptoms. The virulence of the saliva does not proceed from a dilution with the bronchial mucus as P. Bert believed. The experiments of Hartwig, Galtier, and Bardach are proof that the salivary glands themselves contain the virus. Galtier, Breschet, Renault, P. Bert, etc., all agree that the virus does not exist in the blood, the lymph, or the muscular tissue. In rare cases the milk has been found to be infected (Perroncito, Carita, and Nocard). The poison also may occasionally infect the glands and varioiis secretions of the body, e.g. pancreatic fluid, spermatic fluid, urine, etc. The nervous system contains the virus with marked and unfailing certainty. It is always found in the medulla, in the spinal cord and brain. The white substance contains an equally virulent virus as the grey substance. Pasteur proved that for the purpose of inoculation the medulla, treated aseptically, may be used as a far more reliable inoculant than the saliva. The virus is also found in the peripheral nerves, but not so invariably (Roux). Modifications of the Virus by Physical, Chemi- cal, and Biological Agents.—In the cadaver the rabic virus has been found to resist putrefac- tion for forty-five to fifty days (Galtier). Its virulence progressively diminishes (Russo, Travali, and Brancaleone). Roux recommends glycerine as the best agent in which to preserve the rabic medulla ; the bulb may be kept in glycerine for four weeks without any sensible diminution of its viru- lence. Heat has a powerful effect on the rabic virus, which is rapidly destroyed at 60° (Roux), in one hour at 90°, and in twenty-four hours at 49° (Celli). Cold, on the other hand, has little or no eff'ect; the medulla of a rabic rabbit preserved its virulence for ten months kept at a tempera- ture of 10° to 27° (Celli). The freezing of 7° to 8° atmosphere has no effect. The action of light can destroy the virus in forty hours at 37° (Celli). Antiseptics quickly destroy the virus (Celli). Pasteur makes use of the combined action of the air, of desiccation, and of light in diminish- ing the strength and ultimately destroying the virus, and also in obtaining spinal cords pos- sessing varying degrees of virulence. The spinal cord of a rabbit exposed to a drying air at 23° loses its virulence in six days. The activity of the rabic virus may be modified at will by its passage through several animals. The virus of dogs whose mode of existence has already inoculated them with "the virus of the streets" is less deadly. The virus from one of them inoculated under the dura mater will give rabies after an incubation of fifty days. An increase of the virulence is obtained by successive passages through rabbits, the inocu- lation each time being made from the medulla of the last rabbit. At the 133rd passage the duration of the incubation is seven days; at the 178th it is six days (Pasteur). The "virus of passage" is a "fixed virus." It retains its strength in passing through a dog, and always kills the rabbit with the same incubation period. The rabbit is thus a reactive agent on account of the purity and strength of the rabies, which in its case assumes the paralytic form, the paralysis commencing in the posterior parts, and is preceded by increased rapidity of breath- ing, by polyuria, a loss of weight, and rise of temperature. The "fixed virus" is more rapidly obtained by passage through young animals (Hogyes). An attenuation of virulence is obtained by passage through the monkey.