RHEUMATISM, ACUTE 543 that injures the compensation of this damaged heart than any direct mechanical overstrain. Phlebitis and Venous Thrombosis.—Phlebitis and venous thrombosis are among the more un- usual occurrences, though within the last four years I have met with six undoubted examples, which leads one to suppose it may be more common than is perhaps thought to be the case. French observers have frequently observed the condition, and state that phlebitis is most common in the lower extremities. The phlebitis in my experience has commenced in the large veins of the arms and neck, and all tributaries of the superior vena cava, including the upper part of the vein itself, may be occluded. The diagnosis rests upon the occurrence of localised oedema of the arms, face, or chest, with tenderness along the damaged veins, dilatation of the collateral vessels, and sometimes the dis- covery of firm cords in the position of the veins. In four of the six cases that I have seen there was also pericarditis. Changes in the Blood.—Ancemia.—During an attack of rheumatic fever there is a fall in the number of red blood corpuscles. The decrease is usually rapid, and in convalescence this loss may also be rapidly repaired. There are cases, however, in which, as Dr. A. E. Garrod has pointed out, antemia may persist for a long while, and in which there is a fall in the htemo- globin worth of the blood corpuscles. There is very often a moderate leucocytosis, and this in exceptional cases may be very marked, and the leucocytes contain diplococci. In severe cases of pericarditis the diplococci circulate in the general blood-stream, and can be isolated from the blood, but in the less severe cases it is doubtful if even with 10 c.c. of blood any con- stant results would be obtained. Respiratory Affections.—Ple^irisy.—Rheu- matic pleurisy is frequent where there is peri- carditis, and those parts of the pleurte which overlap the pericardium are especially liable to be attacked. Pleuro-pericardial friction is perhaps more freqiient in rheumatic fever than in any disease, for as a rule this inflammation is plastic. Pain in the side, a catch in the breath, and a pleural friction rub are usually present in rheumatic as in other forms of pleurisy. Rheumatic pleurisy may no doubt also occur apart from pericarditis, and it is an important question that yet remains to be solved, how many primary pleurisies which are non-suppurative are rheumatic and not tuber- cular in their origin. Pneumonia. — Rheumatic pneumonia is fre- quent in the severe attacks of visceral rheumat- ism. The clinical features are in some respects remarkable. It is, as stated in the study of the morbid anatomy, essentially a broncho- pneumonia, and when due allowance is made for the collapse of the left lung, which always occurs when the heart is much enlarged, it is doubtful whether, as has been maintained, it occurs more frequently on the left side. It may certainly be present on both sides. The physical signs are sometimes much more ex- tensive than the lesions would lead one to suspect, for the actual pneumonic change is small. The temperature rises abruptly, but falls by lysis rather than by crisis, and the rapidity of the resolution is remarkable. Pulmonary (Edema..—Pulmonary oedema is rare, and, as described by French writers, occurs suddenly and unexpectedly in the mild cases. Such instances as I have met with have oc- curred in the severe forms of cardiac rheumat- ism. Sharp crepitations appear over the upper lobes in front, and then, if the condition is to prove fatal, quickly spread over the entire lungs. There is great respiratory distress, but in the early stage recovery is possible, and the crepitations may rapidly disappear. It is a very interesting point that this oedema is probably not of mechanical origin, for it commences, as does the oedema in renal disease, in the upper lobes, and is more marked in these lobes after death. In connection with the occurrence of this oedema, it may be advis- able to consider the possibility that intolerance of salicylates may be a factor in the causation. Nervous Symptoms.—Chorea in adult life is rare, though young women during pregnancy may suffer sometimes most severely ; and those who have had a previous attack, or have suffered from other forms of rheumatic fever in earlier life, appear to be the most liable. In adults also a condition may be sometimes noticed, during an attack of rheumatic fever, which can hardly be termed chorea, but in which the voluntary movements are uncertain, sudden, and sometimes irregular. Finally, there are cases of chorea in early life which persist for many years, and which may be truly called chronic chorea. Peripheral neuritis is an occasional event, and atrophy of the small muscles of the hand may sometimes reach an extreme degree. In some cases muscular atrophy and arthritis combined produce a condition very closely re- sembling acute rheumatoid arthritis. Hyperpyrexia; Cerebral Rheumatism of the French Writers.—This is the most fatal event that occurs in an attack of rheumatic fever, but is fortunately rare. The i-apid rise of temperature to such a limit as 108°, or even higher, forms the most striking feature ; but the cei-ebral symptoms are also very remarkable, and they may occur before the temperature has reached a great height. There can be little doubt that behind these conditions there is some underlying cause which accounts both for the cerebral symptoms and the hyper- pyrexia. Headache, restlessness, and insomnia may be the early symptoms. Sometimes much urine is passed, and the pain in the joints may