PREGXAXCY, PATHOLOGY OF—HAEMORRHAGE 282 (6) At the time of 2^'>'i>nnri/ riq^ture of the gestation sac, an event which occurs as a rule between the sixth and tenth weeks. (See " Ectopic Gestation," vol. iii.) (3) Myxoma Chorii.—Myxoma chorii, or hydatidiform mole, is the term applied to a myxomatous degeneration which attacks the chorionic villi in certain cases. As a I'esult, the villi become changed into cysts varying in size from that of a pin's head to that of a grape. If, as usually happens, the greater part of the ovum is affected by this change, the fcetus dies and is absorbed. If, however, only a small part of the ovum is diseased, the fcetus may continue to develop. The myxomatous change always commences before the end of the third month, that is before the disappearance of the chorionic villi. However, hfemorrhagic discharges may occur not only during this period, but as long as the uterus remains unemptied, and accord- ingly it must be set down as a cause of haemor- rhage not only during the first three months, but also during the second three. It will be most convenient, however, to refer to it under the former period only. The above are the three causes of hsemorrhage during this period. Inasmuch as each of them is fully treated in the articles " Abortion," " Ectopic Gestation," and " Moles," the writer will here confine himself to a brief account of the method of distinguishing between them. In order to recognise the cause of hsemor- rhage in any case the following points must be ascertained:— (1) The existence of pregnancy. (2) The duration of pregnancy. (3) The present size of the uterus, and the nature of any alterations which may take place in it from day to day. (4) The condition of the adnexa. (5) The nature and duration of the dis- charge. (6) The nature of any solid matter which may have been expelled from the uterus. (7) The condition of the cervix. (8) The symptoms of the patient. (1) The Existence of Preipiancy.—The exist- ence of pregnancy is the first point to be decided. This can be done by determining the presence of its usual subjective and objective symptoms. (2) The Duration of Pregrmncy.—The dura- tion of pregnancy must be first ascertained as far as possible by the patient's history, without taking the size of the uterus into consideration. This is an important point to remember, as in some cases the diagnosis of the nature of the case will be largely based upon the difference between the actual size of the uterus and the size it ought to be in accordance with the period of pregnancy. (3) The 2^^'esent Size of the Uterus and the Nature of the Alterations which take place in it from Day to Day.—The present size of the uterus is a considerable aid to diagnosis in cases of hcemorrhage, when it is taken in connection with the supposed date of pregnancy. If the uterus corresponds in size with the duration of pregnancy, it is strong evidence for supposing that it contains a living ovum, or one which has only quite recently died. If, however, the uterus is larger than the period of pregnancy accounts for, the possibility of myxoma chorii must be thought of. If, again, the uterus is smaller than the period of pregnancy would lead us to suppose it ought to be, it suggests, first, that perhaps the pregnancy is extra-uterine, and, secondly, if that supposition is proved to be erroneous, that the ovum is probably dead. The alteration in size of the uterus from day to day is also important. If it increases at the natural rate, it is almost conclusive evidence that the ovum is intra-uterine and living. The only other condition under which this rate of increase could occur is in the case of a missed abortion, in whicli just sufficient intra-uterine haemorrhage is taking place each day to cause the same rate of increase that a growing ovum would cause. Such a state of affairs is neces- sarily so rare that in practice it may be neglected. If the uterus ceases to increase in size, or even commences to become smaller, it is equally strong evidence that the ovum is dead, that is, that a condition of missed abortion is present. If the uterus grows more rapidly than is normal, it is strongly in favour of myxoma chorii. (4) The Condition of the Adnexa.—The con- dition of the adnexa is of importance, if the question of the possibility of the existence of an extra-uterine pregnancy arises. If they are normal in size on both sides, the possibility of extra-uterine pregnancy is immediately elimin- ated. The typical condition met with in extra- uterine pregnancy prior to the rupture of the sac is as follows :—A globular or ovoid tumour, varying in size from a pullet's egg to an orange, is found at one or other side, corresponding in position to the tube of the same side. The tumour is elastic to touch, and slight pulsation may be felt in it owing to the increased size of the vessels which supply it. The uterus, which is also somewhat enlarged, is displaced towards the opposite side by the tumour If ruptiu-e has occurred, it may be possible to determine the disappearance of a tumour whose existence had been previously ascertained, and the gradual formation of another tumour in Douglas' pouch. The physical signs which help to distinguish between an unruptured tubal pregnancy and any other tumour of the adnexa are : — (a) In tubal pregnancy the enlargement corresponds to the position of a tube rather than of an ovary. Ovarian pregnancy is said to occur, but it is so rare that it may be- neglected. (h) An extra-uterine pregnancy is usually