166 PNEUMONIA—CLINICAL SECTION Peyer's patches. Microscopical examination re- vealed a very exceptionally large deposit of Eberth's bacilli in the cells of the submucosa and in the intermediate muscular layers of the intestine. Apparently they were not found in the lungs, notwithstanding their hyperaemic condition. Even if we take it as not yet proved that infection in enteric fever may occur by way of the lungs, there is no doubt that a close cor- relation exists between this disease and that variety of acute pneumonia, or pneumonic fever, to which the term " Pythogenic Pneu- monia" has been commonly applied since 1875, when the late Dr. Thomas W. Grimshaw, after- wards Registrar-General for Ireland, and the present writer read a paper on the subject before the Medical Society of the College of Physicians of Ireland. In the eighth volume of the Johns Hopkins Hospital Reports (Baltimore, 1900) will be found an analysis and general summary of the cases of enteric fever—829 in number—treated in the medical wards of the Johns Hopkins Hospital from 1889 to 1899. It is from the pen of Professor Osier. Speaking of complica- tions affecting the respiratory system. Dr. Osier says :— " One may divide pneumonia in typhoid fever into two groups, according to its appearance with the onset, during the course, or towards the termination of the disease." He proceeds : Pneumonia at Onset.—The interesting feature of this form, the so-called pneumo-typhoid of the French, is that the cases may present all the characteristics of ordinary croupous pneu- monia, no other diagnosis may be reached, and it may not be corrected \mtil autopsy." He recalls the fact that he had in 1894 given the history of a remarkable case of this char- acter, in which clinically he had no suspicion that there was any other disease than pneu- monia, but the autopsy showed characteristic enteric fever. He reports a very similar case, occurring in a man aged 68, who died within the first forty-eight hours without any suspicion having been entertained that he had enteric fever. The autopsy showed the lesions of this disease. Again, in the case of a woman aged 26, who was admitted on November 11, 1898, complaining of cough, headache, and pain in the back, the symptoms remained chiefly pul- monary for nearly eleven days, and Dr. Osier and his colleagues did not recognise the case as one of enteric fever. There was no leucocytosis at first. On November 13 there were 7600 white corpuscles; on November 22, 23, and 24 they increased to 22,000; on November 28 there were 12,500. The patient had no diazo reaction throughout. The Widal test was applied repeatedly, but it was not until November 24 that it could be said to be fairly positive. Then on the 26th a crop of rose spots and the general features clinched the diagnosis. As regards enteric fever, the influence of season and weather in determining pneumonic trouble is, no doubt, considerable; but it can- not be accepted as paramount or exclusive. And, indeed, it is reasonable to suppose that in some cases, at all events, the pneumonitis is directly due to a localisation of the specific poison of enteric fever in the lung, whether that poison be the Bacillus typhosus itself, or a toxin derived therefrom. V. Anthrax.—" That man may be infected with anthrax by way of the respiratory organs," writes Sternberg, " seems to be well established. In England the disease known as ' wool-sorters' disease' results from infection in this way among workmen engaged in sorting wool, which is liable to contain the spores of the anthrax bacillus when obtained from the skin of an animal which has fallen a victim to this disease. That infec- tion occurs through the lungs is shown by the fact that these organs are first involved, the disease being, in fact, a pulmonic anthrax." That, in infective diseases in general, infec- tion may occur through the mucous membranes of the respiratory tract, has been demonstrated (according to Sternberg) by several bacteri- ologists— especially by Buchner, who caused mice and guinea-pigs to breathe an atmosphere containing in siispension a powder consisting of dried anthrax spores mixed with lycopodium powder or pulverised charcoal. In a series of 66 experiments, 50 animals died of anthrax, 9 of pneumonia, and 7 survived. Microscopical examination of sections and culture experiments showed that the kmgs were extensively invaded. VI. Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis.— The Diplococcus intracellularis meningitidis of Weichselbaum occasionally produces a specific pneumonia. In a report on an epidemic of cerebro-spinal meningitis which prevailed in Boston, Massachusetts, and the neighbouring towns, from the spring of 1896 to that of 1898, published by the Massachusetts State Board of Health, Councilman, Mallory, and Wright mention 8 cases in which the diplococcus caused pneumonia, in addition to which there were 2 cases of croupovis pneumonia with pneu- mococci, 7 of broncho-pneumonia, and 13 cases of congestion with oedema. VII. Plague.—The most fatal form of this dread disease is that in which it declares itself as a true pneumonia, albeit more frequently of a disseminated kind (broncho-pneumonia), of a lobular rather than of a lobar type. It is not merely deadly, but dangerous, because of the vast crowds of bacilli which are found in the expectoration, whereby the infection may be widely diffused. During the epidemic of plague in Bombay in 1897, Captain L. F. Childe, I.M.S.,i observed ' Report to the Plague Research Committee in Bombay.