PLEURA, DISEASES OF 135 pneumococcus in the aetiology of acute pleurisy. Netter, Laveran, and others regard streptococcus pleurisy as much more unfavourable than pneu- mococcus pleurisy. The rarity of the bacillus tuberculosis, even in cases undoubtedly tuber- culai", is noteworthy. Gilbert and Lion failed to find it in any of their 20 cases, though some of them were clearly tubercular. According to von Jaksch, "tubercle bacilli are only present when a discharge of tubercular matter has taken place into the pleural cavity." As regards the interpretation of those cases of serous effusion which are found to be sterile, there is a growing tendency with bacteriologists to regard them as tubercular. This view rests chiefly on the results of inoculation experiments. AschofF injected pleuritic fluid from 57 cases of serous pleurisy into the abdominal cavity of guinea-pigs. In 19 of these cases, in which the exudation occurred in connection with pneu- monia, rheumatism, and a number of other non- tubercular affections, none of the guinea-pigs became tubercular. In 12 cases of certain tubercular pleurisy the animals became tuber- cular in 7. In 12 cases, doubtfully tubercular, the animals became tubercular in 9. In 12 cases of so-called " idiopathic" pleurisy tuber- culosis followed the injections in-9. The author concludes that the majority of cases of so-called " idiopathic " pleurisy are tubercular. Netter puts the proportion of cases of serous pleurisy due to tuberculosis at 68 per cent, Landouzy at 98 per cent. Germain See believes that " so- called simple pleurisy from a chill is only a tuberculous pleurisy, the nature of which has been misunderstood." The whole subject of the relation of pleurisy to tuberculosis—one of the most important problems in practical medicine which are still sub judice—can be considered more conveniently after we have dealt with the clinical aspects of the disease. It must suffice here to indicate the general nature of the bac- teriological evidence and the consensus of opinion amongst the pathologists that the connection between the two diseases is an intimate one. Jakowski sums up his conclusions on the entire subject of the bacteriology of pleurisy as follows : —(1) That all pleurisies depend vipon micro- organisms, though these are not always to be found; (2) that where no organisms are found the case is probably tubercular; (3) that primary genuine pleurisy, not due to tuberculosis, is most often due to the pneumococcus; (4) that serous exudations in which pyogenetic cocci are found have a great tendency towards empyema; (5) that exudations during or after pneumonia are most often dependent on Fraenkel's diplococcus. It is evident that these views are still to some degree hypothetical. See " Bacteriology of Pneumonia," p. 157. State of the Blood in Pleurisy.—The blood in uncomplicated cases of pleurisy does not show any very marked changes. Houston, working in Lorrain-Smith's laboratory, found a moderate leucocytosis during the pyrexial stage, the leu- cocytes numbering from 8000 to 12,000 per cm. This leucocytosis passes off as the fever abates. The same observer found during the afebrile stage the following averages in eight cases of uncomplicated pleurisy:— Red cells . . . 4,100,000 per cm. White cells . . 8,000 „ Heemoglobin . . 78 per cent. Differential count: — Polymorpho - nuclear elements . . =67 per cent. Small lymphocytes . =28 ,, Large lymphocytes . =2"8 ,, Transitional leuco- cytes . . . =1'8 ,, Eosinophile leuco- cytes ... = -4 „ In the febrile stage the proportion of poly- morpho-nuclear elements in the differential count is about 70 per cent or more. Houston is of opinion that the blood-count may be of value in excluding other conditions. In empyema, for example, the leucocytes are usually between 18,000 and 30,000 per cm. In pneumonia a similar condition is found, while in malignant disease of the lung a large leuco- cytosis has generally been recorded. In cases of pleurisy the red corpuscles and amount of hsemoglobin visually show only a slight decrease. In cases of chronic pleurisy and empyema the red cells may fall as low as 2,000,000 per cm., and the htemoglobin may fall to 35 per cent. An empyema may disappear after tapping, and the absence of a leucocytosis has been found useful in determining whether the suppurative process has ceased or not. Acute Pleurisy .Etiology.—The part played in the causation of pleurisy by various micro-organisms—especi- ally the bacillus tuberculosis, the pneumococcus, and the streptococcus—has been already con- sidered. For a further discussion of the in- fluence of tuberculosis see under "Diagnosis," p. 139. Age and Sex.—Pleurisy is common at all ages. It is not rare in infancy, common in adolescence, attains its maximum frequency in early adult life, and continues somewhat frequent in old age. Of patients dying at advanced ages of various diseases it is the exception to find the pleurae free from morbid changes. At the Royal Victoria Hospital, Belfast, in the decade 189M900, of a total of 9629 admissions 304 were cases of pleurisy, a proportion of 3*15 per cent. There is a preponderance—it is difficult to say to what extent—of cases in the male sex. Hospital statistics on this subject are apt to be fallacious. Chill. — Considerable doubt surrounds the