POST-MORTEM METHODS 206 Svibpleural haemorrhages occur in cases of asphyxia, mechanical or occurring in the course of other diseases, and also in toxic and chemical poisonings. Slit up the larger hronchi for a short distance. In acute bronchitis they are brightly congested and contain thick tenacious mucus. Place the left lung on its posterior surface, with the base proximal and the root pointing to the operator's left; then with the long "sec- tion " knife make one sweeping cut from the lateral surface towards the root, so that the two halves open out on the root as on a hinge. Incise the right lung in a similar fashion, placing it with the apex proximal. Note the colour and consistence of the lung, and the character of the fluid which escapes from the cut surface on pressure. Normally the colour of the cut surface de- pends upon the amount of carbon pigment pre- sent ; it crepitates between the fingers, and a small quantity of blood, frothy through admix- ture with air, can be squeezed out. The surface may be pale in anaemic conditions. It may be deeply congested ; bright red in acute, dull red in chronic or hypostatic congestions. If, in addition, the lung be friable, pneumonia is present or commencing. In chronic venous congestion the colour is a dull rusty brown, often patchy in distribution, and the surface dry, unless oedema accompanies. The lung is tougher than normal, so that the fingers cannot readily meet through it, in col- lapse and in the chronic interstitial pneumonias. The consistence of the lung may be increased by deposit in its spaces, or by permanent thickening of its substance. The former condition is present in the con- solidation of pneumonia, and may affect a whole lobe, as in lobar pneumonia, or scattered lobules or groups of lobules, as in lobular pneumonia. A lobule is the subdivision in connection with a terminal bronchus, and it may be recognised in the adult on the pleural surface as a polygonal area outlined by the pigment lying in the lym- phatics in the interlobular septa. When con- solidated these areas are devoid of air, the vesicles being filled with exudation or with catarrhal cells. In the early stages of pneu- monic consolidation the part affected is con- gested, in the later stages it is paler in colour. In all stages the friability is greatly increased. In oedema of the lung a large quantity of a watery, frothy, blood-stained fluid can be squeezed out on the cut surface. This does not stain the fingers to any extent. In capillary bronchitis and simple broncho- pneumonia (lobular), muco-purulent fluid may be squeezed out of the smaller bronchi. Demonstrate the condition of the larger bronchi by slitting them up. In chronic bronch- itis their walls are thickened and they stand up prominently above the cut surface if the lung be not consolidated. In suspected throm- bosis or embolism slit up the pulmonary artery, and follow out its main branches. In the former the blood-clot is adherent; in the latter, if recent, it is not adherent, and may be firm and pale in colour. Lastly, examine the root glands as to carbon pigmentation, tubercular deposit, caseation and softening, or adenitis. Some of the more common morbid conditions found in the lungs may now be referred to in greater detail. In lobar or croupous pneumonia a large area, usvially a lobe or more, is consolidated. There is recent pleurisy on the surface. The lung is very voluminous; on section it is airless and dry. In red hepatisation it is of a dusky red colour, and the cut surface is indistinctly gran- ular. Friability is extreme. In grey hepatisa- tion—the next stage—the colour is a pinkish grey, the cut surface still dry and distinctly granular, the granules being the loosened plugs expressed from the vesicles by the retraction of their walls. In suppurating pneumonia thick, creamy, sticky pus can be scraped from the cut surface. In simple brojicho-pneiimonia (syn. : lobular or catarrhal pneumonia), as seen typically follow- ing measles in the child, the cut surface is flat and mottled. There are minute grey or yellow areas, sometimes branching, corresponding to the bronchioles and their immediately adjacent vesicles, which are filled with catarrhal cells and leucocytes. Between these the lung is congested, and in some cases—fibrino-catarrhal pneumonia—is consolidated from exudation of fibrin into the vesicles. In the adult, septic broncho-pneumonias and hypostatic pneumonia, which often has a septic character, show larger consolidated areas raised above the surrounding congested and still vesic- ular or (Edematous lung tissue. The appearance of tuhercular bi'oncho-pneu- monia is readily distinguished. The consoli- dated area is usually about the size of a pea, and raised above the surface. Several of these may coalesce to form larger areas. They are yellowish, firm, and may show softening in their centres. In the child the whole lung is found studded with these nodules, and no excavation may exist. In the adult, excavation is present at the apex, the broncho-pneumonic tubercles coalescing to form consolidated areas which break down in their centres. All stages of the process may be followed in the same lung. Old cavities are distinguished by their smooth fibrous walls; recent cavities by their rough irregular walls, formed by caseating tissue. Acute Miliary Tubeixulosis.—Miliary grey tu- bercles may be scattered uniformly throughout the lung, in which case the bacilli have been disseminated by the blood-vessels ; or they may be clustered along the septa, adveutitia of