172 PNEUMONIA—CLINICAL SECTION ately precedes the abrupt and critical defer- vescence so characteristic of pneumonic fever, and which may happen at any time between the fifth and eighth days of the attack. In other instances the fastigium is reached early, and a daily descent of temperature precedes the final crisis. Such is the continuous or sub- continuous type of pneumonic fever. But other types present themselves, particu- larly in children, whilst the temperature chart is remittent or relapsing in character—a peculi- arity very suggestive of a lobular rather than DAY OF 3 5- 1 q lo 11 IS l"5 F° 106* 105" 104° 103° 102° lor JOO" 3S' sa" 97° 96" M E M :E M E ME M ;E M:E M ;E M E M E IVf E M E V— -A \. ■ 1/ Pulse £ 100 qb qs loo 8if 1* lOO loo loo loo qb «^ ^« M« 51, UO ^h bo MM Mb- 3b 28 SH MOTIOHS 1 1. j 1 \ i 1 . 1 1 1 . i • < Chart 2.—Acute pneumonia terminating by crisis. Patient, a male aged 18. a lobar pneumonia, or of what has been well called a pneumonia migra7is, wandering pneu- monia, which, erysipelas-like, invades region after region of the pulmonary parenchyma. In this form of the malady affected portions of lung clear up or resolve with marvellous rapidity, while other portions are passing into the earlier stages of hypersemia, congestion, or consolidation, as the case may be. It is possible in such a case to study the physical signs of each and every stage of an acute pneumonia at once. Very early in the attack the rate of breathing becomes quick, shallow, and laboured (dyspnoea). The respirations number 40 to 48, or even 60 or upwards, per minute, and this too when the pulse-rate may not exceed 120. The normal ratio of one act of respiration to four beats of the pulse is therefore lost in pneumonia, and so commonly as to constitute an important diagnostic sign of the disease. The difficulty of breathing is ever and anon increased by a short hacking cough, which the patient strives, though often in vain, to suppress because of the torture it causes by shaking the affected side, or by putting the affected lung and pleura on the stretch. At first the cough is dry, or unattended by expectoration. But, in most cases, sputa soon begin to come up, often with much difficulty and suffering. These sputa may be simply bronchitic in character, colourless, frothy, liquid, and consisting of mucus, epithelium, and young cells. Occasionally they at first con- sist almost entirely of pure blood. There is a true hsemop- tysis. Usually, however, there is no mistaking the expectoration of acute lobar pneumonia. It is rust-coloured, semi-clear or transparent, and so viscid as to cling to the bottom of the spitting-cup even when it is turned upside down. Ex- amined microscopically this very characteristic sputum is found to consist of a network or mesh of coagulated fibrinous exudation, in which are en- tangled red blood corpuscles, giving it the rusty colour, altered epithelium from the air vessels and bronchioles, and many leucocytes. Such are the histological elements in the sputum of acute pneu- monia of the croupous or fib- rinous form. Occasionally the colour of the expectoration is greenish yellow instead of rusty. This is the so-called "greengage" sputum, because of its resemblance to the well-known preserve. In certain unfavourable cases the sputa are thin and watery in consistence, dark-coloured, and offensive, resembling liquorice juice or prune juice. This is a bad sign. So also is a complete absence of expectoration, which may result from palsy of the bronchi and retention, or from the so-called " massive pneumonia," in which lung-cells and bronchioles alike are plugged with firm fibrinous coagula, which no effort of coughing is able to dislodge. Coincidently with the beginning of the stage