489 RECTUM, DISEASES OF THE easily digested nourishing diet, alcohol, and sedatives are its chief features. Mild operative measures, as division of the sphincters, or scrap- ing away growth with a scoop, are sometimes of assistance. They are used, of course, only as palliative measures, excision and colotomy being the only effectual methods of removing the pain from cancer of the rectum. Excision of the Rectum.—The operation is not desirable— (1) If adhesions exist between the growth and the sacrum, base of bladder, prostate, or cervix uteri. (2) If enlarged glands are present in inguinal or lumbar regions. (3) If the patient is already so exhausted by the disease that the necessary loss of blood is a serious risk. Excision of the rectum is on the whole an operation with very unfavourable prognosis, yet when the patient is seen early enough to make entire removal seem possible, he should be given the chance. Kraske's method should always be adopted, except when the growth is at the anus, or limited to the neighbourhood of the sphincters; then the perineal operation is advisable. An incision is made in the mid line of the sacrum, beginning at the second vertebra and reaching the anus. The soft parts are divided to the bone and stripped off sacrum and coccyx. The latter is dissected out, and if more room is needed, the lower part of the former cut away with bone forceps. The posterior surface of the rectum is carefully separated, and with the finger its lateral and anterior surfaces also freed. If there is difficulty the bowel should be cut across before it is separated anteriorly. If the disease is low the circumferential cut is made above it, otherwise below it. The division is made with scissors, and vessels are clipped as they are cut. The growth is then cut away and the divided bowel thus dealt \vith— (1) The upper end is fixed into the upper angle of the wound, or (2) An end to end junction of intestinal and anal portions made, or (3) The upper end is brought down and fixed to the anus. The first method is usually most suitable. If the peritoneum is opened on removing the growth it is to be closed with silk or catgut sutures. The perineal operation is only performed when the disease is limited to neighbourhood of sphincters and anus. A deep dorsal incision is the key to the operation. In operating on the male, a silver catheter is to be passed into the bladder and held hooked up under the pubic arch by an assistant. The lithotomy position must be used. On the finger pass a bistoury into the rectum as far as the upper limit of the growth, and make it cut right down on to the sacrum and tip of coccyx. We modify this usual procedure by piercing the skin a little below the anus with a shai-p-pointed bistoury, which is made to travel entirely outside the rectum in the cellular tissue up to the top of the growth. Then cut down to the sacrum and press in a sponge to arrest bleeding. Now with a scalpel cut deeply round the anus. Then, with finger in the rectum and thumb in the cut, one blade of a long, blunt-pointed pair of scissors is pushed into the posterior cut, and the other into the cellular tissue of the ischio- rectal fossa. The cellular tissue between the blades is cut through, and the proceeding re- peated on the other side. Sponges are put into the incisions on each side, and the outer parts separated from the bowel by broad retractors. We next turn to the perineal part. The rectum is separated by scissors from the tissues around to one inch above the growth. The scissors being kept against the thumb nail, and the finger still inside the bowel, there is no risk of cutting into urethra, bladder, or rectum. The sponges are now taken out, and two large pairs of pressure forceps applied, one to each side of the freed gut. Some short ligatures are tied tightly beyond the clips as these are slowly loosened, and the rectum divided distally. The rectum may be easily removed in this way in ten minutes. A strip of wool is passed along the finger into the bowel, the cavity from which the rectum was removed is stuffed with anti- septic wool, and a T-bandage is tightly applied. In women the assistant's finger should be in the vagina to ensure against the surgeon cutting too near to its mucous membrane. There is little bleeding if the operation is quickly done, and not dividing the bowel when making the dorsal incision ensures greater speed, for the finger in the gut and the thumb outside make rapid cutting safe and easy. The wool is to be removed day by day, that in the bowel being taken out not later than the fourth day. On this day castor oil is given, and the bowels then kept acting every other day. Later, till the parts are healed, a finger or bougie is passed daily. When all is healed a bougie is passed once a week for several months. When- ever it is possible we leave, at the operation, a healthy strip of mucous membrane. Excision of the rectum has sometimes to be combined with colotomy. Sometimes colotomy is needed after excision, because the rectum durins; healinor shows a tendency to troublesome contraction; in other cases the colotomy has been done first to permit of freer subsequent excision. After complete excision, unless Kraske's method is completed in the second and third ways mentioned, there is incontinence of flatus and fseces. After partial excision there is no more loss of power than after operation for severe fistula. The operation of colotomy is not here described, as full details are given in the author's article on that subject.