384 PULMONARY also Breath {In Pulmonary Gangrene); Haemop- tysis ; Heart, Congenital Malformations {Pul- monary Atresia, etc.); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Affections of Pulmonary Valves, Pulmonary Embolism) ; etc. Pulp. See Teeth {Diseases of the Pulp). Pulpitis.—Inflammation of the tooth- pulp. See Teeth, Diseases {Acute and Chronic Pulpitis). Pulsatilla.—A herb belonging to the Natural Order of the Ranunculacece, official in the U.S. Pharmacopoeia; it contains an oil which has a poisonous crystalline principle, ane- monine (Cj^HjoO,,) and anemonic acid {C-^^^^O^); Pulsatilla has been used in the treatment of amenorrhoea, dysmenorrhoea, bronchitis, etc., in doses of from 2 to 3 grains of the powder. Pulsation. See Pulse {Heart Movements, Epigastric Pulsation); Aneurysm {Signs and Symptoms, Expansile Pulsation) ; Aorta, Thoracic, Aneurysm and Dilatation. Pulse, The. Introduction ..... 384 Examination of the Pulse by the Finger 384 Frequency of the Pulse . . . 385 Definition of the Pulse . . . 388 Factors of the Pulse . . . .388 Examination of the Pulse by means of the Sphygmograph .... 389 Arterial Blood Pressure . . . 390 Measurement of the Arterial Blood Pressure in Man .... 392 The Interpretation of the Sphygmogram 394 The Value op the Sphygmogram as indicating the State of the Blood Pressure ...... 403 Dicrotism and Hyperdicrotism . . 403 The Pulse in Infancy .... 404 Pulse Irregularity . . . . 406 Pulse and Respiration . . .414 Heart Movements ..... 422 The Pulse in Tubercular Meningitis . 425 The Pulse in Pneumonia . . .427 Venous and Liver Pulsations . . 4.30 See also Aneurysm {Arterio-venous Inter- com7nunicatio7is, Symptoms); Angina Pectoris {Symptoms, Pidse); Aorta, Aneurysm and Dilatation of {Symptoms, Pulse); Arteries, Diseases of {Pulse m various Diseases); Balne- ology (Effects of Baths on Pulse); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Treatment of Cerebral Haemorrhage, Prevent High Tension of Pulse); Brain, Surgery of {Concussion, Com- pression, Pulse) ; Brain, Tumours of {Symptoms, Pulse); Children, Development of {Clinical Examination, Pulse) ; Chlorosis {SymptoJiis, Pulse); Climate {Effect 07i Pulse); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Physical Signs, Pulse in Aortic Stenosis, Aortic Incompetence, Mitral Stenosis, etc.); Hypnotism {Experimental, Phenomena, Changes in the Pulse); Labour, Stages and Duration {Second Stage, Constitu- tional Symptoms); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Complications, Circulatory); Mediastinum {Mediastinitis, Symptoms, Pulse); Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal {Symptoms, Pulse); Meningitis, Tuberculous {Symptoms, Pulse); Nephritis {Chronic, Circulatory Symptoms); New-born Infant {Physiological Peculiarities, Pulse); Pericardium, Diseases of {Acute Pericarditis, Pulse) ; Peritoneum, Acute Peri- tonitis {Symptoms, Pulse); Physiology, Cir- culation ; Pneumonia, Clinical {Pulse); Preg- nancy, Diagnosis of {Foetal Pulse); Pubrperium, Physiology {Pulse); Sclerema Neonatorum {Pulse); Typhoid Fever {Symptoms, Pulse). Introductory.—The older physicians placed great reliance upon the sensation communicated to the finger by the pulse. The Arabian and Moorish physicians recognised its importance, and our Celestial brethren pretended to be able to distinguish upwards of three thousand varieties of pulse. The Chinese even professed their ability to distinguish the sex of the fcetus in ufero by feeling the pulse of the mother. Before the introduction of the clinical ther- mometer the value of the pulse in diagnosis and prognosis was fully appreciated, and at the present day its examination is even more in- structive, because the information obtained can often be usefully compared with the temper- ature. In the present article it is proposed to con- sider some aspects of the subject which may prove of interest and value to the general practitioner. It is a good rule to always make a point of feeling both radial pulses. The superficialis volfe branch may sometimes become the main trunk of the radial artery, and then the greatest pulsation will be found over the dorsal aspect of the thumb. When this abnormality exists there is a very feeble pulse in the usual situa- tion, and this may mislead the unwary. A real difference in the radial pulse of the two sides may suggest the presence of an aneurysm or intra-thoracic tumour. The Examination of the Pulse by the Finger.—There are a number of characters in the pulse which can be appreciated quite well without apparatus—others require instrumental investigation. When the radial pulse is felt, the physician first of all takes note of its fre- quency. But its character is of much greater significance. Thus the finger must try to gauge the volume of each pulse wave, whether it is large or small, and it is also important to form an impression as to the manner in which the artery is filled by the ventricular systole, whether quickly or slowly, and how the vessel wall collapses after impinging against the finger.