84 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES out the thyroid, or the thyroid without them, and the general result of these experiments is that the nervous symptoms which follow ordi- nary thyroidectomy—the tremors, etc.—seem to be due to the loss of the parathyroids, while the metabolic changes are probably due to want of the internal secretion of the thyroid. After removal of the thyroid some observers have found that the parathyroids undergo a change and become like the thyroid. 5. Ovaries and Testes.—It is well known that removal of these organs causes characteristic changes in the animal: a tendency to the de- position of fat being produced, the activity of the central nervous system being somewhat modified, the voice in the male losing its mascu- line character, and the thymus persisting, in the male at least, for a considerably longer period than in the normal. That it is not the tubules of the testes but some product of the interstitial cells which acts in this way is demonstrated by the fact that ligature of the vasa deferentia which causes atrophy of the tubules does not prevent the development of sexual characters. Several years ago Brown-Sequard maintained that the general effects of atrophy of these organs might be obviated by the administration of testicular substance ; and more recently, as a result of clinical experience, the administration of extracts of the ovaries has been described as relieving certain of the nervous symptoms which supervene on their removal or atrophy. It has further been found that ovarian substance, when given to dogs whether male or female, causes an increase in the rate of protein metabolism, although no similar action is found with testi- cular substance. There is thus evidence that the ovaries, like the thyroid, form an internal secretion having an important action in accelerat- ing the metabolism. It is at least probable that the testes produce a similar substance. 6. Thymus.—This structure develops as an epithelial outgrowth from one or more of the brachial arches of the embryo. Round these outgrowths masses of lymph-like tissue collect, and thus a much-lobulated structure lying in the front of the neck and upper part of the thorax is formed. As development goes on the epithelial core of each lobule breaks up and forms nests of cells which are often disposed con- centrically and form the corpuscles of Hassall. These lie in the loose lymph-like tissue, the medulla of the lobule, the meshes of which are formed from the epithelial cells, and this is surrounded by a cortex of more dense lymph- like tissue. The thymus is largest in relation- ship to the body weight about the time of birth, but it continues to grow, although not in propor- tion to the growth of the body, till about the age of puberty. After about twenty-four years of age it atrophies and is replaced by a mass of fatty tissue. The Hassall's corpuscles seem to atrophy earlier than the lymph-like tissue. Castration in cattle and guinea-pigs markedly retards the onset of atrophy, so that the thymus of the ox is much larger than that of the bull of the same age. Not only so, but removal of I'lO. 171.—Section of the lobules of the thymus to show the lobules, with Hassall's corpuscles in the central part. the thymus in young guinea-pigs seems to be followed by a more rapid growth of the testes. It is therefore probable that the thymus yields an internal secretion which controls the growth of the male genital organs. The only other effect of its removal in young- guinea-pigs is a transient diminution in the number of leucocytes. This seems to lead to a diminished power of resisting the invasion of those micro-organisms — e.g. staphylococci— which are normally combated by the leucocytes. 7. Pancreas.—Excision of the pancreas in dogs and other mammals produces a condition of diabetes—an increase of sugar in the blood, its appearance in the urine, an increased ex- cretion of nitrogen, and a general emaciation. These symptoms do not occur when the duct is tied or occluded until degeneration has de- veloped, but they are invariable and immediate when a sufficient amount of the gland is removed. They are not prevented by the administration of pancreas, either fresh or as extracts. The sugar is formed from the proteins, since it appears in amounts proportionate to the amount of nitrogen excreted, after all the glycogen has been removed. The pancreas seems therefore to form a hormone which either controls the production of sugar in the liver or causes its utilisation by the muscles. It has been suggested that adrenalin causes diabetes by checking the production of this hormone in the pancreas. But the facts that, in ducks and geese, in which removal of the pancreas does not cause diabetes, the injection of suprarenal extracts causes glycosuria, and that its administration increases the output of sugar in dogs without a pancreas, are opposed to the view that it acts through the pancreas,