296 PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—HEMORRHAGE (3) Post-partum Hfemorrhage.—Post-partum hemorrhage in cases of placenta prtevia is a comparatively common occurrence. Its fre- quency is due to three factors: — (a) Laceration of the Cervix.—This has been already noted. (h) The Situation of the Placental Site.— When a large portion of the placenta extends below the contraction ring, its site cannot be affected to the same extent by the subsequent contraction and retraction of the uterine muscle as if the placenta was entirely situated in the contractile part of the uterus. As a result, the lumen of the placental vessels may not be com- pletely obliterated. (c) The Debilitating effect of previous Hfemor- rhage upon the Patient.—Marked ansemia and debility, the results of previous hfemorrhages, have frequently a very prejudicial effect upon the uterine contractions. Prognosis.—The prognosis in placenta prfevia depends greatly upon the treatment adopted. The maternal mortality is said to vary between 2 and 40 per cent. Galabin had 92 cases, with 8 deaths ; Winckel, 19 cases, with 1 death ; Dlihrssen, 50 cases, with 2 deaths. Blacker has collected 22 cases in which Champetier de Ribes' bag was used, with 1 death. At the Rotunda Hospital, where Braxton Hicks' method is used in all severe cases, 86 cases were treated from 1st November 1889 to 1st November 1900, with 3 deaths. Of the 3 deaths, one was due to rupture of the uterus occurring in a case in which the forceps were applied. A second was due to liBemorrhage, the patient being admitted moribund, after a journey of five miles in an open cart. The third died of saprsemia, from which she was suffering when admitted. As in accidental htemorrhage, the foetal mortality is very high—from 40 to 60 per cent. FcETAL Mortality in Accidental and Un- avoidable HAEMORRHAGE.—A fevv words must be said with regard to the foetal mortality in these cases. It has been found by experience that the life of the child is, in antepartum hfemor- rhage, more or less antagonistic to the life of the mother, and that any treatment which will give the lowest maternal mortality will give the highest foetal, and vice versa. Accouchement force, which in the past gave a maternal mortality of from 40 to 60 per cent, gave a considerably lower foetal mortality than does the treatment which is adopted at the present day. So far no treatment has been described which, while affording the same excellent maternal results that are obtained by Braxton Hicks' treatment in placenta prtevia, or by vaginal plugging in accidental h;emorrhage, materially reduces the foetal mortality. This condition of affairs is after all no more than must be expected. So far as we can see at present, it is necessary to give the mother as much time as possible to recover from the haemorrhage which has oc- curred, before the uterus is emptied either naturally or artificially. During this time, the foetus is limited in its supply of oxygen to the amount which can come through a placenta, of which not only a large portion is detached, but of which the remainder is undergoing a more or less forcible compression against the uterine wall. If this compression can obliterate the vessels which are torn across, it must also to some extent diminish the size of the lumen of those which are intact. Furthermore, even if the foetus is delivered alive, its expectation of life is extremely bad. It is frequently prema- ture, and has always suffered more or less from deprivation of oxygen. As a result, such in- fants very frequently die during the first month after birth. Under these circumstances, the author considers that attempts should not be made to save the life of the child, if such attempts will materially affect the prognosis for the mother. It may frequently seem, in pla- centa prsevia, as if a slight traction upon the leg of the child would save its life by hastening its delivery, and the very natural desire to save both lives may induce us to do so. In some cases, where the condition of the mother is good and the cervix is sufficiently dilated to remove the danger of laceration, it may be possible to hasten delivery without increasing the maternal danger to an unjustifiable extent. On the other hand, if the case is one which should have been left to nature—as the majority are—we may only find that we have sacrificed the life of the mother for the sake of an infant who succumbs shortly after its birth. II. HyEMORRHAGE DUE TO RuPTURE OF THE Uterus Haemorrhage always accompanies rupture of the uterus. Its amount varies according to the site of the laceration, the involvement or escape of the large iiterine vessels, the amount of pres- sure exerted by the fa>tal parts upon the lacera- tion, the strengtli with which the uterus sub- sequently contracts, and the extent to which the neighbouring parts are implicated. The haemorrhage may be internal, i.e. into the peri- toneal cavity, or external, according to the site of the laceration, according as it is complete or incomplete, and according as the situation and nature of the presenting part prevents or per- mits the escape of blood. The symptoms are those of internal or external haemorrhage, as the case may be, with the addition of the more direct symptoms due to the laceration itself {vide the articles on " Rupture of the Uterus," Labour, " Injuries during," vol. v. p. 264). 2. Arising independently of the Pregnancy MENSTRUATION The possibility of menstruation occurring during pregnancy is a question which apparently