RECTUM, DISEASES OF THE 476 piles, or polypi are thus discovered. Now examine the interior of the bowel with the finger well anointed, the patient bearing down as it is inserted. The tightness and breadth of the sphincters are observed, and careful ex- amination made in the space between them, the commonest position for openings of fistulse. Then the finger is passed higher, and the pros- tate and upper parts of the rectum thoroughly explored. If a tumour is felt, try to indent it with the finger. Scratch with the nail, to detect what matter is got from it; impacted fseces may give rise to symptoms of cancer, and blood, mucus, or pus on the nail helps diagnosis. Use the right forefinger for the front wall, and the left for the posterior aspect of the gut. If the rectum be full of fseces obscuring diagnosis an enema is necessary. A speculum is seldom needed for diagnosis. When used it must be large, and an ansesthetic is required. Should nothing be found to account for the patient's symptoms, the highest part of the rectum and lower part of the sigmoid flexure may be examined by bougies with or without an anaesthetic. First india-rubber, then metal bougies are to be used. Passage of the hand into the rectum for diagnosis of disease high up is of doubtful value. In obscure cases it is most important to give an antesthetic, dilate the sphincters, and examine the abdomen, pressing deeply into the left iliac fossa. Abscess and Fistula in Ano.—Men are more subject to fistula than women. The disease is commonest in middle-age, but infants in arms, and patients over eighty, have alike needed operation for fistula. The commonest causes are:— (1) Injury to the anus, as by passage of hard motions or foreign bodies. (2) Exposure to wet or cold, as by sitting on damp seats after exercise, when the parts are hot and perspiring. (3) Parasites of the anus and its neighbour- hood. Thrombosed veins and suppurating piles are predisposing causes. (4) Abscess and fistula may follow fevers, and those conditions which give rise to boils and carbuncles ; and (5) Tubercular tendency inherited or acquired may lead to this disorder. Fistula generally begins by formation of an abscess immediately beneath the skin just out- side the anus, stai'ting in the cellular tissue, or hair, or sebaceous follicles. The ischio-rectal fossa is a rarer situation. It may begin in the subcutaneous connective tissue of the rectum, and burst into the bowel. It may undermine the rectum in any direction. In phthisical patients it may begin by ulceration of the mucous membrane, in which faecal matter ac- cumulates and forms a sinus, opening eventually outside the anus. Abscess may originate in the superior pelvi-rectal spaces, and form sinuses extending in every direction. Rectal abscesses may be acute, chronic, or gangrenous. The acute are accompanied by severe constitutional disturbances, the chronic may be evident only from a painless fluctuating swelling, with thin and discoloured skin, or a flat, boggy, crepitating enlargement by the side of the anus. Gan- grenous abscess around the rectum is rare, occurs in persons of broken health, and requires very free incision. Rest, fomentation, and leeches may cut short a threatening abscess if seen early. Usually, however, pus forms, and incision is then the only treatment. The longer an abscess is left unopened the greater is the danger of sinus formation. To open small abscesses, place the patient on the side of the swelling, pass the left forefinger into the bowel, and make outward pressure between this and the thumb ; with a straight bistoury held per- pendicular to the abscess, open it, cutting out- wards, and making the incision at right angles to the anus. In severe cases open the abscess from end to end, and from behind forwards. Introduce the forefinger, and break down any secondary cavities, carrying the finger up by the side of the rectum till only one large sac remains. If there is outward burrowing, make a deep incision into the buttock at right angles to the first. Do not cut away sloughs. The cavity is syringed out, and filled with wool soaked in iodoform and vaseline, 20 gr. to ^j. After twenty-four hours this is changed daily, the wool being very lightly carried to the bottom of the cavity, which must not be stuffed. Fistula often follows abscess owing to the movement of the part by the action of bowels and sphincters, the presence of much loose areolar tissue and fat, and the unsupported state of vessels near the rectum. Fistula; are:— (1) Complete, having an opening inside and outside the bowel. (2) Blind external, having no internal opening. (3) Blind internal, having no external opening. In almost every case of complete fistula the internal opening is between the two sphincters. Fseces when liquid, passing into complete or blind internal fistulse, cause great suff"ering— burning pain often lasting for hours after an action of the bowels. Any fistula may become complex by the formation of many sinuses. As regards the seriousness of a case, the most im- portant point is whether the sinuses are low down in the rectum or surrounding tissue, or high up as the result of abscess in the ischio- rectal fossa, or above the levator ani muscle. In examining fistula use the probe with a very light hand, letting it find its own way. If operation is not at once desirable, palliative treatment may be tried if:— (1) There is no internal opening. (2) The discharge is thin and watery.