341 PSORIASIS very efficacious, but is not suitable for actively inflammatory patches. It may be repeated every day, or three times a week, according to its effect. An improvement is saponis mollis, spirit, vini rect., or eau de Cologne, partes equales; mix, and make a liniment. In the more acutely inflammatory cases, wrapping the limb or body up in lint soaked in glycerini plumbi subacetatis sj., aq. distil. 3vij., and covering it with oiled silk or hat lining, removes the scales and diminishes the hyper- semia, and will cure many patches. Other applications suitable for acute cases, or whenever it is desired to reduce hyperaemia before resorting to special remedies, are cala- mine liniment, consisting of calamine gr. xl., iinci oxid. gr. xxx., lanolin 3j., ol. olivee and aq. calcis ad 3iiiss., applied constantly by means of lint soaked in the liniment; or, covering the part thickly with Lassar's paste, with or with- out the salicylic acid, zinci oxid. 5ij., pulv. amyli 5ij., vaseline 5ss., cover paste with butter doth. Assuming that the hypersemia has been removed by one of the above means, or that there is not enough to require such preliminary applications, what special application shall be selected 1 All the special remedies are microbicides, and all have a more or less stimulating action. As a rule, the less hyperemia there is, the more stimulating the remedy may be, but care must be taken not to irritate the patches too much, or the soothing treatment will have to be reverted to, and time be lost. Whatever the remedy, it must be rubbed in thoroughly to each patch, working especially round the edge. In extensive cases, an attendant may have to spend from two to three hours a day in applying the remedy, and this is the secret of success, together with adapting the remedy to the con- dition of each patch. Only a few of the legion of infallible remedies need be mentioned as the survival of the fittest. Chrysarobin stands first on account of its almost specific action on the diseased area, but it has serious drawbacks. It stains linen in- delibly, and dyes the hair a purple-brown, and the nails also. It is also very liable to excite .an erythema for a considerable distance beyond the point of application. This is sometimes so severe, and attended with such swelling, that it has been mistaken for erysipelas when situated on the face, where it also excites conjunctivitis. It should therefore never be vised near the face, and the patient should be warned of the possi- bility of these disagreeables to clothes and person. In covered places and suitable patches the result is almost magical, the disease being- cleared off in a short time, leaving a white area on a red ground. Such a result is not always attainable, but a very satisfactory removal of the patch may often be obtained in a slower and less sensational manner. The stronger ointments, from gr. xx. to 5j. to the ounce, are only suitable for indolent and pale patches. Since the author found that from one to five grains to the ounce of zinc ointment is signally beneficial in many hypersemic cases its range of usefulness has been much extended. When the surface is cleansed from scales, and the patch is pale, a paint may be used which is convenient to applj' and does not stain; it is composed of chrysarobin gr. xx. to 3j., chloro- form ^ traumaticin six. The British Pharma- copoeia traumaticin is made with bisulphide of carbon as a solvent, but its faecal odour makes it an impracticable preparation. After painting for six days one coat over another the film may be peeled off, and a large part of the diseased area will be found to be cured. It is often ad- visable to wait a few days and apply an oint- ment before renewing the painting. Pyrogallic acid is another valuable i-emedy, but it also stains, but to a less degree. It may be used in subacute cases, from 10 to 60 grains to the ounce of ointment, but it must not be used over a large area at a time, as dangerous symptoms may arise from its absorption. Dilute hydrochloric acid is said to be prophylactic and remedial for the toxic symptoms. For the face and other exposed parts those preparations which neither stain nor smell should be selected. They are resorcin, salicylic acid, thymol, which has the smell of thyme, but is cleanly, and naphthol, all gr. x. and upwards to the ounce. Most of the mercurial ointments also are suit- able for the face and for limited areas in other parts. They are the diluted nitrate 5ij. to the ounce, ammoniated mercury gr. xx. up to 3ij.; the yellow oxide 5]. to the sj., is stronger; the bichloride and biniodide, gr. j. and upwards. They should only be rubbed on, never con- tinuously applied. The ointment base is lard, lanolin, or vaseline, or a combination of them. Many tar preparations are most valuable, and have stood the test of time, but their smell limits their use to those who can discontinue their social or business duties. They are oil of juniper pine (oil of cade), oil of birch (ol. rusci), creasote, all from 10 tri to 60 Tirt to the ounce. The old tar ointment is good, but seldom used, as it is dirty as well as smelling strongly. A 5 to 10 per cent watery solution of liquor carbonis detergens, or liquor picis carbonis, is often convenient for large areas for self-applica- tion, but is not so efficacious as inunctions. The pure solution may be used if followed by the continuous application of the glycerine of lead solution. For the scalp, the spirit of soap liniment should be rubbed in with flannel dipped in hot water and then in the liniment, then rinsed out, ' To make this of proper consistence, pure guttapercha 3j. should be digested in chloroform 3x. for two or three weeks, with agitation.