RETINOSCOPY 533 sees the light move in a myopic eye we must take— (i.) A myopic eye with more than \D of myopia—in which the far point ^ lies between the patient's eye and the observer—who we suppose is sitting one metre off. (ii.) A myopic eye with less than ID of myopia, in which the far point lies behind the observer. (i.) Myopia of more than ID. Rays starting from the illuminated point a, on the patient's retina, are rendered convergent on leaving the eye, and meet at the far point a. From a they again diverge, and entering the observer's eye, will appear to him to come from this point. Similarly, rays starting -p from h will come to a focus at b', from which they will appear to the observer to come. As the illumin- ated area on the retina moves from a to h, the source from which the observer sees the light come moves in the opposite direction, viz. from a to h'; that is to say, the observer sees the light move in the opposite direction to which it is moving on the patient's retina. Thus, in myopia of more than ID the observer sees the light move against the plane mirror, but tuith the concave mirror. (In this latter case it is seen that there is a double reversal of move- ment.) (ii.) Myopia of less than ID. If the far point be situated behind the observer's eye the rays will not have crossed before entering his eye, move at all; that is to say, the pupil appears either bright or dark, and no shadow is seen to move across it. What is this position? It is when the far point is situated at the observer's eye, or more accurately, when the rays from the illuminated retina are focussed exactly at his nodal point. This is termed the point of reversal. This may be simply explained as follows :— Let A be the observed eye and B the observer's eye. The image of the p\ipil ab will be found on the observer's retina at ab'. and there will be no apparent reversal in the movement of the light. Therefore in this case the observer will see the light move in the same direction as it is moving on the patient's retina. Thus in myopia of less than ID the light is seen to move tvith the plane min-or and against the concave mirror, as in H and E. From the above considerations it is clear that between (i.) and (ii.) there must be a position of the far point at which, though the mirror is moved, the light and shadow do not appear to ^ The far point of an eye is the point for which the eye is focussed when accommodation is completely at rest, and therefore, conversely, rays starting from the retina are brought to a focus at the far point. The F.P. of an eye having ID of myopia lies 1 metre off. 2D ,, ,, 0-5 ., ,, » 0-.OD „ „ 2 ,, „ that is to say, the distance of the far point varies in- versely with the degree of the myopia. If the far point of the eye A lie at N, the nodal point of the eye B, rays from the very small area p (the size of which depends upon the size of the observer's pupil) will cover the whole area ab', and the observer therefore sees the whole of the patient's pupil illuminated. Thus, if p be illuminated the whole pupil will appear bright, if it be not illuminated the whole pupil will appear dark—hence at the point of reversal the whole pupil flashes either bright or dark—a condition of partial illumina- tion of the area a'b' is impossible, and no shadow is seen to move across the pupil. If then the observer's eye be 1 metre from the observed eye, and movement of the mirror causes no moving shadow, we know that the eye must have a myopia of ID. We are now in a position to understand the rule for estimating the refraction of an eye, viz. to place in front of the ob- served eye convex lenses in hypermetropia, and concave lenses in myopia, of gradually in- creasing strength, until the shadow ceases to move, when we know that the corrected eye has become myopic to the extent of ID. We must deduct, therefore, ID from the lens which abolishes the movement of the shadow to give the true correction of the error of refraction. Thus, suppose it takes sph. + 4D to correct a hypermetropic shadow, that is to say, sph. + 4D gives the corrected eye ID of myopia, the re- fraction of the eye is + 3D of hypermetropia ; again, suppose it takes sph. - 5D to correct a myopic shadow, that is to say, sph. - 5D leaves the corrected eye with ID of myopia, the re- fraction of the eye is - 6D of myopia. It will be obvious from what has been said that the position of the observer is of great importance. We have seen that with the observer at 1 metre (the position of the far point of an eye of ID of myopia), the glass