134 PLEUKA, DISEASES OF presence of scattered red blood corpuscles, leu- cocytes, fatty globules, and endothelial cells. Micro-organisms are often present. Sugar is always to be found in small quantity, and sometimes acetone and uric acid. Serous effu- sions are highly albuminous, proteid material being abundantly present, chiefly in the form of serum albumin and globulin. Serous effu- sions coagulate on standing for a few hours. The differentiation of " serous " pleural effusion from passive transudations, due to cardiac or renal disease, may be important. The dis- tinction is not always easy, and may be very difficult or even impossible. The broad rules are that transudations are usually of lower specific gravity than effusions, they exhibit fewer tissue elements, and coagulate with greater difficulty. (See " Examination of Pathological Fluids," vol. iii. p. 300 et seq.) B. Purulent Effusion {Empyema).—This type of effusion is commoner in the child than in the adult. It is often a sequel of pneumonia, and seems in a considerable proportion of cases the result of invasion by the pneumococcus. It does not often supervene upon a serous effusion imless that effusion has from the oi;tset con- tained a large proportion of corpuscvilar ele- ments. It may follow upon repeated tappings of a recurring serous effusion, but this is much less frequent than has been supposed. The pus only exceptionally becomes foetid. C. Hmmorrhagic Effusion. — The blood is mixed in varying proportion with serum, less often with pus. Hfemorrhagic pleural effusions are somewhat rare, but their importance is great. They are most often due to tuberculosis, less often to scurvy, haemophilia, one of the malignant exanthemata, Bright's disease, cirrhosis of the liver, or to cancer. It is important to bear in mind that the effusion in tuberculosis of the pleura is, most often serous, only exceptionally purulent or hsemorrhagic. In cancer the effusion is often hsemorrhagic, but may be serous. Apart from tuberculosis, cancer, scurvy, or hfemophilia, a hsemorrhagic effusion points to a state of profound dyscrasia or to a virulent attack of one of the exanthemata. A heemor- rhagic effusion in tuberculosis does not neces- sarily exclude a fairly hopeful outlook. While hiiemorrhagic effusions are distinctly unfavour- able, their prognostic indications vary widely and need be interpreted with caution. Cancer cells are sometimes present in a haemorrhagic effusion. According to von Jaksch, the presence of the glycogen reaction in a marked degree favours the suspicion of cancer. D. A chylous effusion, due to rupture of the thoracic duct, has been described. It is ex- tremely rare. Bacteriology of Pleural Effusions.—This subject is at present exciting great attention, and may be expected to throw much light upon the pathogeny of pleurisy. The results hitherto obtained are interesting and valuable, but in- conclusive. We shall consider the subject under the following heads :—• 1. In what proportion of cases of pleural effusion are bacteria present 1 2. What kinds of bacteria are found, and what is their significance 3. What conclusion is to be drawn in cases where the effusion is " sterile " 1 As regards the first question we find divergent results. Lemoine found 28 out of 32 cases of serous effusions " sterile." Mitchell Prudden found micro-organisms in only 2 out of 21 cases of pleural effusion. Aschoflf found micro-organ- isms in only 7 out of 200 cases of serous effusion. On the other hand, Thue found micro-organisms present in 12 cases out of 30 in serous effusion, while Jakowski examined 30 cases of serous effusion and discovered micro-organisms in all but 7. It is needless to observe that in cases of empyema micro-organisms are practically always found present. As regards the second question no constant results have been obtained. Lemoine found the staphylococcus albus in 4 cases. He failed to find any micro-organisms in any of his cases which were certainly tubercular. Mitchell Prudden found the pneumococcus present in 2 cases of serous pleural effusion following pneu- monia. He examined 24 cases of empyema, and found that in " simple" empyema the organism most often present was the streptococcus pyogenes (7 times out of 8), while in pneumonic empyema he found pneumococcus in 9 cases out of 11. In one case of tubercular empyema he found the tubercle bacillus alone present. Goldscheider found the streptococcus in 3 cases of serous pleurisy which did not become purulent, and the staphylococcus in 1 case. Aschoff found the streptococcus once and the pneumococcus once each in 2 cases of serous effusion following pneumonia. In 2 cases of so-called " idiopathic " pleurisy he found the streptococcus once and the pneumococcus once. In a case of exudation associated with pulmonary gangrene he found the streptococcus. Jakowski examined 48 cases of exudation in which micro-organisms were present. In 34 of these only one micro-organism was present; in 10 of these it was the strepto- coccus pyogenes, in 2 the bacillus tuberculosis, in 1 the staphylococcus aureus; in the remaining 14 cases various micro-organisms were associated. Thue found the bacillus tubercidosis present in 1 case out of 12 cases of serous effusion; in the remaining 11 various cocci were found. In 23 cases of empyema he foimd the 2meumococcus in 14. Netter examined 110 cases of purulent effusion. He found the streptococcus pyogenics in 51, the pneumococcus in 32, the bacillus tuberculosis in 12, and various bacteria of putre- faction in 15. Fraenkel, Weichselbaum, Netter, Serafini, and others assign a very important role to the