PNEUMONIA—CLINICAL SECTION 167 that, concomitantly with the increase of mor- tality from the bubonic form of the disease, deaths from pneumonia multiplied pari passu. In the pneumonic form of plague, according to Childe, the only marked evidences of disease are found in the lungs; the lymphatic glands and other organs are scarcely affected at all. In these cases there was general engorgement, with considerable oedema and a reddened con- dition of the bronchial mucous membrane. A number of pneumonic patches, varying in size from a pea to an egg, were found scattered through the lungs. These patches had the appearance of the first and second stages of lobular pneumonia, but no patches were found which had passed on to the third stage of soften- ing and breaking down. Petechial hsemorrhages were usually forthcoming on the surface of the lung. The bronchial glands were either en- larged, swollen, (Edematous, soft, and distinctly engorged, or else they were small and of the visual appearance—perhaps a little engorged. In cases of plague pneumonia Childe states that the bacilli of plague were seen in abundance in the pneumonic areas. They could be found in profusion amongst the catarrhal epithelial cells and leucocytes which filled the alveoli and terminal bronchioles, as well as among the blood corpuscles of the alveoli into which hsemorrhage had occurred. Similarly in the lungs of non-pneumonic cases they could be seen, but in far fewer numbers, and mostly where small haemorrhages had taken place into the alveoli Dr. James Cantlie says that pneumonic plague is usually ushered in by a rigor, dyspnoea, cough, a high temperature, and marked prostration. The sputum is profuse, of a watery character at first; it may be tinged with blood from the onset, but more usually blood does not appear until the illness has lasted twenty-four hours. The pulse is soft and compressible from the first, and cardiac distress is considerable. Pneumonic patches—lobular pneumonia—occur in either lung and at any portion of the lungs, but are more usually met with in the lower lobe and towards the posterior aspect. Moist sounds, especially at the base, and bronchial rhonchi are to be heard, but all the signs and symptoms are peculiarly evanescent, and a patch of pneumonic consolidation, dull to-day, clears up to-mon-ow, when another part of the lung becomes affected. Delirium, frequently of a violent type, is present; but before death coma supervenes, preceded, it may be, by a muttering delirium. The pneiunonic variety of plague is a most rapidly fatal form of the disease, the patient usually dying on the third or fourth day. In an article on " Pneumonia and Broncho- Pneumonia," published in February 1900, the editor of The Practitioner (Mr. Malcolm Morris) wrote as follows : — " Certain pathologists, without contesting the intervention of the pneumococcus in the majority of cases of lobar pneumonia, consider that this microbe is not always en cause; that other micro-organisms can give rise to this disease. To unity in cause, they oppose plurality (Weichselbaum, Jurgensen, Finkler). Their opinion is founded on this consideration, that in a pneumonic focus other pathogenic microbes than the pneumo- coccus have been found ; that these microbes introduced into the lung of animals have given rise to inflammatory lesions." In contradistinction to these views, which we venture to adopt from our own clinical experiences, Netter says dogmatically : " There is no pneumonia without pnevimococci." He also states that "the constant presence of the pneumococcus of Talamon-Fraenkel in lobar pneumonia, and the plurality of microbes causing broncho-pneumonia, are the distinctive elements which bacteriology permits us to recognise in the history of pulmonary inflam- mations." According to Netter, the pneumo- coccus of Talamon and Fraenkel is the specific microbe of lobar pneumonia, but he will surety admit that the pneumococcus plays a leading part in the causation of pneumonia in children, yet how seldom is its distribution lobar. Nor is the lung by any means the only seat of a primary localisation of the pneumococcus. In 121 post-mortem examinations Netter himself found the primary localisation to lobar pneu- monia in 65"95 per cent, broncho-pneumonia and bronchiolitis in 15'85, meningitis in 13, purulent pleurisy in 8'53, otitis media in 2"44, endocarditis in 1 "22, and abscess of the liver in 1'22 per cent. Predisposing Causes 1. Totvn life increases both the prevalence of and the mortality from pneumonia. The Registrar - General for Ireland (Mr. Robert Matheson, LL.D., M.A.) has kindly furnished tables showing the number of deaths from pneu- monia by ages and sexes registered in the whole of Ireland and in the Dublin Registration Dis- trict respectively during each of the five years 1894-1898, together with the average deaths from pneumonia for the same period. From these tables it appears that the average annual death-rate per 10,000 of the population from pneumonia throughout Ireland in the quin- quennium 1894-1898 was 7'8. The correspond- ing figure for the Dublin Registration District was 14'4. So that practically the pneumonic death-toll was twice as heavy in the Irish metropolis as it was throughout the country at large. In other words, pneumonic aff'ections kill twice as many of the population in a large town compared with the open country. 2. ^^I'e.—From the same tables we learn that the average annual deaths from pneumonia in all Ireland during the five years 1894-1898 were