PRURIGO AND PRURITUS 328 authority, " a person who is predisposed, and the predisposition is indispensable, repeatedly scratches some circumscribed patch of skin which is the seat of pruritus, it may determine more or less quickly certain morbid changes. The skin thickens, becomes hard and rugose, the papillae hypertrophy, and groups of hyper- trophied papillae produce papules of irregular and unequal size. The normal folds and surface markings may be exaggerated, forming a sort of quadrilateral mesh. The integument is more or less infiltrated, and has lost its suppleness and normal consistence." To this alteration of skin Brocq gave the name " lichenification." When this lichenification arises in a skin apparently healthy it is termed primary lichenification. Far more frequently it is secondary to some previous eruption, such as eczema or lichen planus. The rapidity with which, in some cases, large islands of pigmented and indurated, or "licheni- fied," tissue may arise in a circumscribed area, which is the seat of pruritus, without any pre- vious signs of abnormality, is one of the strongest proofs that the nutritional state of the skin may deviate considerably from the normal without giving any spontaneous eruptive symptom. This form of traumatide is met with in neurotic persons, and may be associated with jaundice. It sometimes follows mental shock or states of mental worry and depression. (9) Eczematisation.—Besnier has applied this term to patches of superficial inflammation pre- senting all the polymorphic characters of eczema, namely, hypersemia, vesication, oozing, desqua- mation, and suppuration. (10) Pigmentation. (11) General dryness of the surface. General Consequences of the Pruritic State If we are to judge of the importance of a pathological condition by the greatness of the conseqiiences which proceed from it, there are few more important than those of which pruritus is the symptom. If the itching is severe the sense of torment replaces every other considera- tion. To work is impossible, and to sleep no less so. The power of concentration is weakened, and with loss of control there is developed an irritable temper. The unfortunate person falls into a " nervous condition." The approach of night brings no promise of relief, for sleep, which subdues pain, has no power to arrest pruritus. The disturbance in the peripheral nerves and the spinal excitement still goes on. Too often the patient is sleepless, and makes frantic efforts to relieve his torment by tearing at the skin. Should this continue without inter- mission it would speedily end in madness, but the irritation is intermittent and paroxysmal, and in the calm intervals he recovers to some extent. If the pruritus is acute and temporary, or even if it is chronic, provided it is not of a severe character, the general state of nutrition may even be good (Hebra). But in many cases the entire nutrition of the body suffers, and this is generally observed in neurotic adults. The misery of these unfoi'tunate persons is increased by their social ostracism. Pain wins sympathy, but pruritus only aversion and annoyance. In childhood he is scolded by his teachers and jeered at by his school-fellows, and later in life he comes to be avoided as an object of contagion, since the act of scratching is always suggestive of parasites. Thus the whole life of the sufferer is dominated by his complaint, his lot is isola- tion, and we need not wonder if it drifts into melancholia, or terminates in suicide. Clinical Groups in the Prurigo Series In sketching the general character of the prurigo series it was pointed out that the essen- tial disease underlying all forms of prurigo and pruritus is some latent change in the nutrition of the skin, which is accompanied by an inter- mittent and paroxysmal sensation of itching, and later by the appearance of traumatides or scratch lesions. The present imperfect state of our knowledge of the pathology of the pruritic states forbids us even to attempt a scientific classification of these disorders. All we can do is to arrange our cases into groups, according to circumstances which seem to us more or less striking. The result of the arrangement is merely a catalogue of cases, and is not to be regarded as a natural classification. Prurigo Hebr^e.—Pruritus in badly nourished Children, followed by pronounced Malnutrition of the Skin and severe Trau7natides, continuing more or less through Life.—According to Hebra, the disease begins in infancy and continues throughout life. The earliest objective symptom is that of subepidermic papules, which form in all parts of the body surface, except in the skin covering the bends of the joints. The face, throat, and neck are rarely aff"ected to any extent. The papules are isolated, and increase in number in the lower limbs. In long-con- tinued cases the whole nutrition of the skin suffers. It becomes harsh and rough to the touch, of thicker consistence and of darker complexion than in health. The itching is more or less constant, but subject to exacerbation and paroxysm, especially at night. Hebra firmly maintained that the subepidermic papule was the essential part of the disease, and that it was the inevitable antecedent of the itching. This, by many, is considered doubtful, and the evidence points rather to the lesion being secondary to the scratching. In consequence of scratching, the skin over the papules becomes reddened and excoriated, and the papules dis- charge a fluid which dries into a scab. If the lesions below the knee are numerous the in- guinal glands inflame and become enlarged, forming the so-called prurigo bubo. When the disease is fully established the general aspect of