RADIUM 466 near the closed eye a sensation of light is pro- duced. This is also perceptible in some cases of blindness. It is not, however, due to stimu- lation of the retina or optic nerve, but to fluorescence of the ocular media. Radium is inimical to animal life. The introduction of a tube containing 1 mg. of the bromide under the skin of a mouse causes convulsions, par- alysis, and death. Young mice lose their hair, become blind, and die under its influence. After prolonged exposure, seeds lose their power of germinating ; the growth of tadpoles is checked ; other larval forms of life also fail to develop. The radiations are said to inhibit the growth of some bacteria and to kill others. Attempts to sterilise milk in this way have failed. It should be noted that the action is greatest in young forms of life—a fact which may be related to the rather selective effect of the rays on cancer cells. Thies found that the rays affect all animal tissues, the adenoid structures and skin being most susceptible. The epidermis dies, or under certain circumstances undergoes pro- liferation and produces a species of neoplasm. The arteries contract; striped muscle undergoes colloid degeneration; elastic fibres are most re- sistant. Heinecke, to whose work so much of our knowledge of the tissue changes caused by X-rays is due, states that the effects of radium are identical : the action on the hair, skin, or testicles is the same in both cases. Therapeutic Uses. Method of Application.— Tracy advises the use of the most active pre- paration obtainable—at least 10 mg. of pure radium bromide of about 1,000,000 strength. Weaker samples necessitate longer exposures. Using pure radium bromide, the average sitting is from 20 to 45 minutes. Other authorities advise much shorter exposures—1 to 4 minutes. The radium may be enclosed in a glass or ahiminium capsule, the latter being more per- meable to a and /? rays. A lead capsule with an aluminium window may also be used. The radium is placed in contact with small lesions; at a short distance from larger ones. Ex- posures may be made daily for one or two weeks, then thrice weekly. Malignant disease and lupus require long exposures often repeated ; nervous affections fewer and shorter. There is no doubt that, as Butcher graphic- ally expresses it, small superficial tumours of all kinds "wilt and wither away" after a few exposures. The action is like that of X-rays, there being first spasm of the vessels, then congestion, cutaneous reaction, and sometimes pigmentation. In advanced malignant disease the ulceration may be controlled and foetor dim- inished. It would seem therefore that radium may be tried with some prospect of success in the same class of case as X-rays. Good results have been reported in superficial epitheliomata, rodent ulcer, lupus vulgaris, lupus erythema- tosus, scleroma of the nose and larynx, angio- mata, keloid, melanoma, by Lassar and many others. It has also advocates in the treatment of tics, neuralgia, and optic atrophy. Its ad- vantage over X-rays lies in the possibility of applying it to localities which are impossible or difficult of access for these. Walker praises it highly in lupus of the mouth ; it has also been employed in tuberculous ulcers of the tongue and in cancer of the oesophagus, with relief. Dinger reports cases of trachoma successfully handled with radium. Some remarkable ob- servations of Tizzoni and Bongiovanni demand mention. They find that the virus of rabies can be rendered inert by exposure in vitro to the radiations, and that even after inoculation into a rabbit it can be rendered harmless in the same way. It is even stated that when the inoculation is made at a distant part — the meninges or sciatic nerve—raying one of the animal's eyes may neutralise the toxic action; and also that by exposure to the rays the virus is converted into a protective vaccine. Other Forms op Radio-activity.—The pro- perty of radio-activity is possessed by other bodies besides radium, and appears to be very widely distributed. It has been conclusively proved that the water of many mineral springs —e.g. Bath—is radio-active, and the suggestion has been made that part of their virtues may arise from this. Taking advantage of the " excited activity" which radium induces, a radium fluid, consisting of normal saline solution which has been exposed to the action of the rays, and has thereby acquired radio-active properties, has been used for douches, gargles, and other purposes. Of a number of radio- active bodies, the only ones which need be men- tioned are uranium and thorium. Both are far inferior in activity to radium—uranium, indeed, gives the unit standard of activity—hence no danger can follow their use. Uranium has been employed as a plaster in skin diseases (Walker). Thorium, which is the principal in- gredient in incandescent gas mantles, was re- commended by Rutherford and Soddy as de- serving trial in pulmonary tuberculosis. The emanation is inhaled from a special apparatus (Lieber) in which thorium oxide is heated over a sand-bath. Thorium has also been employed as an ointment in malignant and other forms of ulceration. Promising as the radio-active bodies may appear in the cure of disease, they are still on trial. It should never on any account be for- gotten that, so far as malignant disease is con- cerned, the appeal is still to the knife. The sphere of radio-activity is only to supplement, never to supplant, early and thorough removal of the disease by operation. Radius. See Elbow-Joint, Injuries and Diseases of {Fracture of the Head or Neck of the Radius, Dislocation of the Radius, etc.); Feac-