PROSTATE GLAND 319 occur, as after prolonged sleep, or after taking a large amount of stimulants, the bladder finds difficulty in expelling the accumulated urine. In place of being emptied by one act frequent calls are made within a short period, and even the repeated efforts are not altogether successful. The inconvenience arising from frequent micturition and incomplete relief after the act in voiding the bladder are at first trivial, but as the obstruction increases the functions of the bladder become more and more impaired, in spite of a compensatory hypertrophy of the muscular wall of the bladder developed in order to increase the expulsive force. Sleep is dis- turbed by frequent calls to pass urine, the efforts to micturate become more ineffective, and the relief to the bladder less complete. That vise us gradually becomes dilated, and habitually fails to empty itself, a portion only of its contents being expelled at each act of micturition ; the patient complains of obscure pains in the perinfeum, the rectum, and the neck of the bladder. In some instances the pain may extend down one or other great sciatic nerve; he observes that the stream of urine becomes smaller, and the force by which it is expelled gradually less. Micturition does not commence at will; increased efforts occasionally cause escape of the contents of the bowel. As a consequence of continued straining of the parts, hernia, hajmorrhoids, or even prolapse of the rectum may be induced, and passive hyper- gemia resulting from increased resistance to the venous return may cause erections unassociated with sexual desire. If these difficulties consequent upon inter- ference with the mechanism of micturition are not relieved by art, the pressure which has been exerted to void urine induces dilatation of the bladder, and in old-standing cases may cause sacculation of that viscus. Bi-lateral hydro- nephroses and dilatation of the ureters follow as a natural consequence of the pressure being re- flected backwards, but the distension is not always equal on the two sides. On account of these structural changes the functions of the bladder and kidneys show evidence of failure. The bladder remains habitually filled, only the sui'plus urine escaping at micturition. During the unconsciousness of sleep, to the patient's great discomfort, the urine passes more freely, and he is said to be suffering from "inconti- nence," a term which may be used if its exact clinical significance is appreciated, but it is essentially faulty in the sense that it does not describe the condition present. The bladder contains too much urine; the " incontinence" applies only to the overflow. The patient's general health steadily deteriorates, and if left unrelieved by surgical treatment acute and critical symptoms may develop at any moment, and may be induced by the most trivial cause. Long-standing urinary embarrassment renders the organs involved specially liable to septic infection, which may take place independently of the use of instruments. But the fact cannot be overlooked that in many instances the symp- toms of toxic poisoning closely follow upon the first use of the catheter. After sepsis has been induced the natural course of events is usually very rapid. Let it be accepted that the patient has not been relieved by the surgeon in the early progress of the disease. The j^i'ostatic obstruction that induced hypertrophy of the walls of the bladder in the early stage, as the disease advances, also causes dilatation and atrophy of the mviscular elements. Following there may also be sacculation of the bladder, dilatation of the ureters and pelves of the kidneys. The urine is acid, pale in colour, deficient in urea, and may contain a little albumin. The patient is feeble, his appetite is poor, and his urinary troubles are as they have been for months. After drinking rather heavily, or after returning from a fatiguing journey, he becomes " chilled," and goes to bed. Early the following morning he finds that he is unable to pass water, and no relief follows the remedies he is accustomed to use. Retention of urine is complete, and for the first time a catheter is passed. In the afternoon and evening he has several severe rigors, his temperature rises rapidly, the pulse is full, bounding, and rapid, the respirations are shallow and augmented in number, the tongue is dry and the lips parched. The skin is moist and soft. The urine now drawn off, in place of being clear and acid, contains some blood, is slightly opaque, and has a pungent odour. Next morning the urine is distinctly alkaline, and contains urea- decomposing organisms, such as staphylo - coccus pyogenes aureus and S. pyogenes albus. The tongue becomes dry and brown, the skin pale in colour, the quantity of urine secreted is diminished; later on diar- rhoea sets in, the patient's temperature rises to 102° or 103° F., and then follow the symptoms of suppression of urine with septic intoxication. When septic infection occurs at an earlier stage in the disease the progress of events is not so rapid. The symptoms point to subacute cystitis with decomposition of urea prior to evacuation. ((S'ee "Bladder," vol. i. p. 387.) The urine, from being clear and acid in reaction, slowly becomes turbid. The reaction passes from acid to neutral, then gradually becomes alkaline, offensive in odour, and later on dis- tinctly ammoniacal. Symptoms of cystitis slowly develop, and the urinary difficulties steadily increase, the inflamed bladder being less able to contend with the urethral obstruc- tion. Infection gradually extends from the bladder to the ureters and kidneys. The general health becomes steadily impaired, slight feverish attacks occur at intervals, and toxic poisoning