POST-MORTEM METHODS 213 Paint on a thin layer on the slide, place against a support, with the albumin downwards, to dry; when dry keep in a covered receptacle. Albuminising is not absolutely necessary if perfectly clean slides be used. A slide is placed obliqviely under the paraffin section floating in the water, and the edge of the latter drawn on to it by means of a needle. The slide is then gently raised out of the water, bearing the section with it. It is dried and kept at room temperature over night, or pref- erably in a watei'-bath, the temperature of which is regulated near the melting-point of the paraffin in order to fix the section to the slide. Before staining, the paraffin must be dissolved out with benzole, turpentine, or xylol, the solvent washed out with strong spirit, and the spirit washed out with water. Celloidin sections are usually stained without removal of the celloidin. Staining of Sections Picro-carmine.—Cover the section with a few drops of Ranvier's picro-carmine and allow to act for a half to one hour. Remove excess with blotting-paper—do not wash—and gently drop some Farrant's glycerine mounting medium on the centre of the section. Lower a cover-glass on to this, as already described in the prepara- tion of a "Scraping of Tissues" (p. 211). The staining gradually improves. Hoematoxyliji. — While picro-carmine gives very good results, a preference is shown by most workers for a method which will give a more rapid differentiation of tissues, and especi- ally of nuclei. Such a method is that now to be described. It is a little more complex than the former, but with a little practice facility in its employment is readily attained. As the active colouring agent in most hsemat- oxylin stains is the same—hsematein—it is only necessary for ordinary purposes to give the method of using one of the more dependable of the hsematoxylin stains—that introduced by Ehrlich. Ehrlich's hsematoxylin may be bought ready for use, or may be prepared as follows:— Hsematoxylin, 2 grains; absolute alcohol, 60 cubic centimetres. Dissolve, then add—glycer- ine, 60 c.c. ; distilled water, 60 c.c.; glacial acetic acid, 3 c.c.; ammonia alum to excess. Expose to the light, frequently opening and shaking until the liquid acquires a deep port- wine colour. This usually requires two months. If carefully stoppered the staining powers remain constant for years. Stain sections of "fixed" tissues for fifteen minutes. Apply a 1 per cent solution of hydrochloric acid in water or spirit to limit the stain to nuclei. This changes the section to a distinct red colour. The hsematoxylin at this stage is acid and permanent, so that it must be rendered alkaline by washing in tap-water for one to two hours, or for a few seconds in water to which a drop of strong ammonia has been added. After using ammonia wash thoroughly in tap-water. The hsematoxylin is now blue and practically permanent. Counter-stain for one minute in 0*5 per cent solution of eosine in water, wash in water, pass through methylated spirit and absolute alcohol to dehydrate, clarify in clove oil, benzole, turpentine, or xylol, and mount in Canada balsam dissolved in benzole or xylol. It must again be noted that sections stained in picro-carmine must be mounted in Farrant's medium only. If picro-carmine sections be dehydrated in alcohol and mounted in balsam, the picric acid is dissolved out wholly. If, however, a trace of picric acid be added to the clarifying agent the colour will be restored, but the result is not very satisfactory except in the hands of skilled workers. For ordinary purposes of diagnosis no other stains are required. Fat.—To demonstrate the presence of fat, sections may be cut by any of the freezing methods detailed, and stained black with osmic acid or orange with sudan. Osmic acid is used in i to -^^ per cent solution in distilled water, a stock solution of a 1 per cent strength being kept in a black stoppered bottle. Sudan iii. is employed as a saturated solution in 70 per cent alcohol. In both cases the stain is applied till the required colour is obtained. The osmic acid preparations are mounted in Farrant's medium, or dehydrated and mounted in balsam; the sudan preparations can be mounted in Farrant's medium only. For the special methods of staining applicable to nerve cells and fibres the reader is referred to Ford Robertson's Pathology of Mental Diseases. C. Bacteriological Investigations This subdivision of the paper should be read in conjunction with earlier articles on Fluids, Bacteriological Examination of ; Micro- organisms ; and Microscope. Bacteria may be examined as they occur in tissues or fluids, or after separation from these by cultivation on suitable media, or by inocula- tion into animals. This last expedient need not be referred to further than to impress upon the reader the fact that it may not legally be practised unless in a place specially registered for the purpose, and unless the investigator have obtained a special license under Act 39 aud 40 Vict. The routine method of examination may be summarised thus, taking the case of a patho- logical fluid :— 1. Examine films stained by "simple" and " differential" methods, using a high power