520 RETINA AND OPTIC NERVE actually beneficial, certainly not apparently hurtful; and if the atrophy is progressive, and vision doomed to fail in any case, it is surely cruel to prematurely deprive the patient of all use of whatever vision remains. Appropriate glasses should be given to correct any error of refraction, and sometimes to magnify near objects. There must be strict limitation, how- ever, of all finer work, such as reading ; a sense of fatigue, or increased difiiculty in seeing smaller objects, should be regarded as an evidence of the need for a temporary rest. Galvanism has been tried, but with doubtful benefit; though it is not, we believe, actually hurtful (as has been asserted), its use cannot be recommended. Injuries to the Optic Nerve.—The optic nerve may be injured in any part of its course, either as the result of a blow, stab, gunshot wound, or fracture of the sphenoid bone. A stab or thrust into the orbit may (without injury to the eyeball) cut or tear the nerve; or may merely bruise it, or cause an extravasa- tion of blood within its sheath; or again, with- out actually injuring the nerve, may sever the central vessels outside its trunk. If a foreign body penetrate deeply it may fracture the orbital wall near the apex, and thus secondarily lead to injury of the nerve by a displaced bony fragment. Similarly, gunsliot wounds may implicate the nerve either in its orbital or intracranial course. Sometimes the intraocular end of the nerve is injured by a fragment of metal that has penetrated the eyeball. Fracture of the base of the skull, as from a fall or severe blow on the head, sometimes causes injury to the nerve at the optic foramen, or behind it. Sudden complete blindness of the correspond- ing eye is usually the immediate result of any severe injury to the optic nerve. If the solution of continuity be complete, permanent blindness is the consequence; if incomplete, there may be restoration of vision in part of the field. When the nerve is simply bruised, or pressed upon by extravasation within the sheath, sight may be restored; usually, however, secondary changes afterwards occur, leading ultimately to complete or partial atrophy. The ophthalmoscopic appearances are usually at first of a normal character, but as the atrophic process reaches the disc, it gradually assumes the appearance of an ordinary simple ati'ophy. If, however, the central artery be cut or torn across, we at once find changes in the fundus similar to those met with in em- bolism of this vessel. The treatment of the recent injury must be based on general surgical principles. Later, if the continuity of the nerve has been preserved, the measures recommended above in optic atrophy may be tried. Tumours of the Optic Nerve.—The optic nerve trunk (including its pial sheath) may be the original seat of a tumour. It may also be involved secondarily by the extension of growths arising (a) within the eyeball (from retina and choroid); {b) in its dural sheath; (c) or in the surrounding orbital tissue. When the nerve is primarily involved by a new growth, there is little or no pain, and the movements of the globe are usually good; but there is early failure of vision, papillitis or optic atrophy, and later proptosis. The most common form of such a tumour is myxo-sarcoma. Of intraocular growths secondarily aff'ecting the nerve, we must mention retinal glioma and sarcoma of the choroid: the former extends in the medullary substance of the nerve, the latter spreads along the sheath and fibrous framework. At the optic disc there is occasionally seen a projection of small, pearl-like bodies, of the nature of the " corpora amylacea" found else- where in the central nervous system, and not necessarily connected with any visual loss. Gummata seem particularly apt to involve the optic nerve fibres in the optic canal and at the chiasma ; in the latter situation, also, deposits of cheesy, tuberculous material are sometimes found. Congenital Abnormalities.—Imperfect clos- ure of the cleft in the embryonic optic cup and pedicle leads to coloboma of the iris, choroid, or optic nerve-sheath, according to the part and amount involved. This latter—coloboma of the sheath of the optic nerve—is comparatively rare. When it occurs, the main branches of the central vessels are seen to emerge near the upper edge of the disc-area, while the lower part of the latter, corresponding to the cleft in the sheath, is very pale and deeply excavated, with small vessels curving round its margins. The appearances vary considerably in different cases, and the condition is generally accompanied by coloboma of the neighbouring part of the choroid below. The Retina Anatomy 520 Ophthalmoscopic Appearances . .521 Changes in Retinal Vessels . .521 Abnormalities in the Pigment . . 522 Hemorrhages ..... 523 Inflammation—Retinal .... 524 Varieties ...... 524 Central Retinal Affections of Toxic Origin 526 Retinitis Pigmentosa .... 526 Embolism and Thrombosis of Central Artery ...... 527 Detachment of the Retina . . . 528 Injuries of the Retina . . . 529 Glioma 529 Congenital Abnormalities . . . 530 Anatomy.—The retina is to be regarded as a distinct off"shoot from the central nervous