RHEUMATISM, CHRONIC 577 ance of the marrow, a varying degree of redness and gelatinous degeneration being present; (b) altered consistence of the marrow due to sclerosis and calcareous changes in that tissue. Owing to an insufficient acquaintance with the normal appearance in animals at different periods of life, it is not possible to speak with assurance as to the character of these pathological changes and their relation to the general rheumatic condition. But as to the existence of gross changes there is no room for doubt, and, to my mind, little reason for doubting that these have a close etiological relationship to the disease itself. This field of study is a wide and import- ant one. Till now, the pathological histology, like the morbid anatomy, of these cases has taught us little about the cause of chronic rheumatism, and until we have given adequate study to the bone marrow and its function, we shall be unable to formulate with confidence a theory as to the etiology of the disease. A further desideratum in human pathology is an exhaustive examination of the naked eye and microscopic appearances of all the viscera and tissues in cases either of rheumatism or so- called rheumatoid arthritis. In both classes of case we are too ready to conclude that visceral lesions, if present, are relatively unimportant or incidental complications. What is desirable to have even in one case of this kind is a complete histological examination of all the tissues of the body. Very special attention should be directed to the following :— (a) Very detailed examination of the vessels— small and large — concerned in the nutrient supply of the joints, muscles, nerves, or other tissues that were the seat of the clinical mani- festations. Attention has lately been drawn to the presence of disease in the arteries and capillaries in some cases of acute rheumatism {see p. 539); it is probable that similar local changes of a more chronic nature may help to explain some of the fleeting manifestations of chronic rheumatism. {b) Similar examination of the various mucous surfaces that are the common sites of infection for bacterial invasion—more especially the gastro-intestinal canal and the utero-vaginal membranes. The facts learned from this ex- amination would be many, and could not fail to be very instructive. (c) The naked eye and microscopic appear- ance of the ma7-roiv. With these facts and the others obtainable from present records, we would be in a better position to review the whole picture of rheu- matism, and would also be in a stronger position for formulating a theory regarding its patho- genesis. But these facts are absolutely essential. Rheumatism, Muscular.—In rheumatic sub- jects the muscles are affected in two ways—as an acute or a chronic myositis. Both condi- tions are apt to escape notice on account of the VOL. VIII small amount of attention that is paid to the systematic clinical examination of the muscular system. It is sometimes stated that where there is evidence of active inflammatory change in the muscles the condition is to be regarded as myositis, and no longer as muscular rheu- matism—the latter name being reserved for those cases in which no objective signs are present. This is surely an erroneous view of the subject; there is much evidence in favour of the view that so-called muscular rheumatism stands in a very direct relation to other mani- festations of rheumatism, and a study of the manner in which the muscles are affected is essential to a complete survey of rheumatism. Acute Myositis.—Acute myositis is met with at any period of life, but is more common in the later half. The female sex is more liable, and stout subjects especially so. The clinical features vary according to the extent and severity of the disease. The patient may com- plain of " neuralgia," or of " rheumatic pains " in a joint, or of weakness in a limb. Little pain may be complained of when at rest, but on exertion, e.g. rising from a chair, an acute twinge of pain is experienced. In cases of some duration and severity the amount of dis- comfort or pain is considerable, as are also the pains of the limbs as a whole, and especially the weakness in the joint nearest the muscles involved. On examination of the affected muscle nothing will be found unless a most careful and detailed examination, especially adapted to determine the presence of inflam- matory thickening in the muscles, is carried out. The examination is made as follows :— The patient must be directed to put the muscles into a passive state, as a contracted state of the fibres will interfere with the examination. The skin is smeared with vaseline. The muscle is then gently palpated with the finger-tips, the examination being conducted along as well as across the line of the fibres. The movement of gentle petrissage is well calculated to reveal the presence of foci of rheumatic inflammation. A patch of inflammation reveals itself by marked localised tenderness, which makes the patient wince keenly. The painful spot is usually the size of a bean, but may be smaller or considerably larger. To the finger the spot feels hard in the centre and surrounded by an area of unusual softness, presumably an area of serous exudation. These spots are usually multiple, and a careful examination may reveal their presence in regions unknown to the patient. The muscles most commonly aff'ected are those on the front and sides of the chest (pleurodynia), thighs, neck, legs, and abdomen, but practically all the muscles of the body may be involved. Chronic Myositis.—The typical picture of a case of chronic myositis is quite distinct from the foregoing, but here also the clinical features