244 PRECINANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—AFFECTIONS OF OVUM AND DECIDUA becomes firmer in consistency than in normal pregnancy, the cervix losing its characteristic softening. The organ , may remain the same size, may grow slowly, or may gradually lessen. For repeated haemorrhages may increase its size by adding layer after layer of blood-clot to that already surrounding the retained ovum; or, in the absence of fresh hjemorrhage, the absorption of the liquor amnii may cause reduction in the bulk of the mass. Expulsion finally occurs spontaneously and accompanied by more or less pain and bleeding. Some ova have been re- tained in utero as long as eighteen months, but expulsion more often occurs within a much shorter time. In the diagnosis of this condition everything depends upon the recognition of pregnancy, as, apart from this, the practitioner will be con- fused by thinking in turn of all the recognised causes of uterine enlargement. Given, however, a clear history of commencing pregnancy, followed either by a threatened abortion or by gradual disappearance of the signs and symp- toms of pregnancy, there is still room for dubiety in many cases. It may be difficult, if the uterus continues to enlarge, to be sure that the foetus is really dead, and Simpson points out the danger of interference in such cases, lest, while one of twins has perished, the other should be still alive. Vesicular degeneration of the chorion may also be suspected under these circumstances. If the uterus is decreasing in size it may be difficult to prove that any product of conception is still within it. Indeed, it is often impossible to ascertain the true condition of affairs until careful observation has been continued over a period of several weeks or even months. The prognosis is good, as there is little dis- turbance of health as a rule, and the bleeding which occurs on expulsion is seldom severe. There is always the risk of sepsis, and there is always a marked tendency to subinvolution, the uterus remaining large and flabby much longer than after an ordinary abortion. In a few cases the condition known as deciduoma malignum has followed the expulsion of re- tained ova. Owing to the difficulty in diagnosis, the management of the cases recorded has almost always been expectant. If, however, the condi- tion is clearly recognised, the cervix should be partly dilated, and uterine contraction should then be secured by packing the vagina, or distending it with a rubber bag. The mole having been expelled naturally, or the uterus having been cleared out by hand, special pre- cautions against subinvolution should be taken. Rest in bed, hot douching, and the exhibition of strychnine, iron, quinine, and hydrastis are of value in the after treatment. The blood mole, or mola hajmatomatosa, is simply a variety in which blood-clot forms the bulk of the mass. The fibrinous mole of Berry Hart appears to be due to disease of the chorion, and is accordingly referred to under that heading. Sjmrious Abortion.—This term has been ap- plied by Eden to a condition of which he has described three examples. It is supposed that an ovum is fertilised, and develops far enough to set up the changes in the endometrium which usually accompany gestation. The ovum perishes at such an early date that it leaves no trace of its existence, but the decidual membrane goes on growing for two or three months, accompanied by amenorrhoea, enlarge- ment of the uterus, enlargement of the breasts, and morning sickness. Brownish discharge or bleeding is then followed by the expulsion of a decidual cast of the viterus, similar to those expelled in cases of ectopic gestation, and con- taining no foetal elements whatever.^ The cast is triangular in shape, and consists of a sac formed entirely of uterine mucosa, which has undergone the changes mentioned in describing the development of the decidua. Without careful investigation these casts would be mistaken for early abortions, and they are probably more common than is supposed. Whenever such a cast is expelled it is necessary to make sure that ectopic pregnancy does not exist, in order that the patient may be promptly treated for that condition if necessary. This condition cannot be diagnosed clinically, and demands no treatment until expulsion of the cast occurs, when recovery is rapid and complete. Malignant Disease of the Decidua.—No ac- count of the affections of the decidua would be complete, in the present state of our knowledge, without reference to the form of malignant disease which is known (amongst other names) as deciduoma malignum. For although Veit and several British authorities hold that this condition is sarcoma of the uterus, existing before, but modified by the occurrence of preg- nancy, a number of observers believe that the new growth begins in the decidua itself, is essentially a disease of pregnancy, and cannot be pre-existent to its occurrence. This view was taken by Sanger, who first described a case in 1888. He considered it to be a sarcoma derived from the decidual cells during pregnancy, and later suggested the name sarcoma-deciduo-cellulare as more de- scriptive than deciduoma malignum. The great majority of observers on the con- tinent of Europe and in America, together with some British authors, hold that the growths in question are not sarcomata of maternal origin, but are foetal carcinomata derived from the 1 The author has, since the above was in print, de- scribed a case in which a uterine cast of this kind was expelled after eight weeks' amenorrhoea, together witli a small body, the size of a split pea, which proved to be a complete ovum of about live days' growth. — Trans. Obstet. Soc. London, 1901.