158 PNEUMONIA—BACTERIOLOGICAL SECTION properties of the pneumococcus in experimental inoculation; Netter, who examined a great number of cases with the object of determining the distribution of the pneumococcus and its relation to various morbid states; Eyre and Washbourn, who perfected the culture media, and the latter of whom was successful in establishing a condition of artificial immunity. The Pneumococcus (Fraenkel).—It is obvious from these researches that whether this organ- ism is admitted to be the essential causal agent in the pathogenesis of acute pneumonia, or whether it acts thus only in the majority of cases, it is of all the microbes concerned by far the most important. A brief outline of some of its morphological, biological, and pathogenic characters is a necessary preliminary to any discussion regarding its role in the production of disease in man, and the whole question of its relationship to disease introduces one of the most interesting problems which bacteriology has ever attempted to solve. In form the pneumococcus appears as minute oval or lanceolate bodies, usually in pairs and often in chains, the free extremities of each pair being pointed. In animal tissues and fluids each pair of cocci appears surrounded by a capsule, due to a peculiar swelling of the cell envelope, and this capsule may be stained by special methods. In any circumstances, but especially in artificial culture, the cocci show a marked tendency to degenerate and undergo involution; but even when this degeneration has advanced to such an extent that the bodies of the cocci have largely or entirely dis- appeared, the capsules often persist and may be identified by suitable methods of staining. The significance of this lies in the fact that at such a stage cultures would probably remain sterile, and inoculations would probably have negative results, so that the recognition of the capsules might be the only means of determin- ing the presence of pneumococci. In contrast with the pneumobacillus of Friedliinder it should be noted that the pneuoiococcus retains the stain in Gram's method. In cultivation the organism is somewhat fastidious, and practically requires to be incu- bated at or about the body temperature. On blood serum, blood agar, or ordinary agar it occurs as minute translucent colonies which tend to remain separate. On all ordinary media cultures rapidly degenerate, rapidly die, and subcultures soon lose their virulence. Eyre and Washbourn, however, by the most careful attention to certain conditions of cultivation, were enabled to maintain both the vitality and the virulence unimpaired for several months. Both within and without the animal body the pneumococcus is quite exceptional in its brief duration of life and in the rapidity with which its virulence is lost. In artificial culture this is very striking, and presents a consider- able difficulty in the way of experimental work. Sometimes the virulence may be intensified or restored by passage through a series of rabbits. In susceptible animals the organism may live longer in a virulent condition than in cultures, but even then it is apt to die sooner than most pathogenic microbes. In old empyemas, in the later stages of pneumonia, etc., a large number of devitalised and degenerated pneumococci are often found, but occasional instances are met where the virulence has been maintained for months. Fraenkel and Weichselbaum had stated, and their views have been confirmed by subsequent observers, that pneumococci suff'er a progressive diminution in virulence as the course of a pneu- monia advances. Netter, indeed, goes so far as to say that in the day of the crisis the virulence of the sputum is often suddenly lost, and re- mains in abeyance for two or three weeks. Apropos of this question Welch of Baltimore says that attenuation of virulence within the human body probably does occur, inasmuch as pneumococci derived from inflammatory exu- dates may be devoid of any pathogenic effect in animals. Fi'om the late stages of pneumonia which had gone on to recovery, and at the time of the crisis, he had obtained pneumococci which were as virulent and sometimes more virulent than those procured from earlier stages of the same case. He points out that in experi- ments of this nature the number and character of living pneumococci inoculated must be con- sidered. It is known that the pulmonary exu- date contains many dead cocci, and that the living cocci vary greatly among themselves in degree of virulence. Moreover, when animals are inoculated with material obtamed directly from the human body, there may be introduced along with the pneumococci toxic or immunis- ing substances which influence the course of the injection. It may indeed be shown that such material, though proved to contain very viru- lent pneumococci, may not produce any patho- genic effect. Pathogenic Effects of Experimental Inocula- tion.—The results of experimental inoculation of animals with the pneumococcus show extreme degrees of variation. The actual number of cocci injected, the presence or absence of other bacteria or toxins, and the site of inoculation, very materially condition the result. But the two factors on which this variability chiefly depends are (1) the virulence of the microbe and (2) the susceptibility of the animal. (1) Both in natural conditions and in artificial cultures pneumococci may have lost their viru- lence to such an extent as to be quite innocuous. On the other hand, by such methods as passage through a series of susceptible animals, the virulence may be so intensified that a few cocci injected into a rabbit will produce a fatal septi- caemia in less than twenty-four hours. Between