81 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES can be maintained, and conflicting results have been arrived at. Various investigators have succeeded in maintaining a nitrogenous equili- brium for short periods on an intake of protein no greater than that metabolised in fasting. Chittenden has recorded a prolonged series of investigations upon this question, by which he shows that in five professional men for periods of from seven to nine months, in eight student athletes for from four to seven months, and in thirteen soldiers for five months, a nitrogenous equilibrium and perfect physical and mental health could be maintained with an intake of from 35 to 56 grms. of protein per diem. The work done by these individuals is not recorded, but from the daily routine of the soldiers, whose chief work appears to have been two hours' exercise in a gymnasium, it must be classed as very moderate. The fact that the energy value of the diets in the case of the soldiers was only 2500 to 2800 calories seems to confirm the opinion that they were not called upon to do severe work. While these results certainly prove that men can maintain health and muscular efficiency for long periods on about half the amoimt of protein which is usually consumed, they do not demonstrate that, in the case of those subjected to strenvious and sustained muscular work, such a reduction is desirable, nor do they indicate that in growing children a reduction in the amount of protein usually consumed may be safely allowed. A study of a very large series of dietaries of different races shows that, unless absolutely prevented by poverty, the average man consumes over 100 grms. of protein per diem, and that those in muscular training tend to consume very much larger amounts. Bearing in mind the importance of proteins as muscle builders, it is safe to conclude that in the labouring classes about 120 grms. of proteins should be alloived per man per diem. IV. Part played by Carbohydrates and Fats. —The carbohydrates and fats have to supply the energy not supplied by the proteins. The amounts which must be consumed will thus depend, first, on the amount of protein taken, and, second, on the energy requirement of the individual. If 120 grms. of protein are taken, this will yield 492 calories of energy, while if only 50 are consumed, 205 calories will be yielded. The diff"erence between these amounts and the total energy requirements of the person must be made up from carbohydrates and fats. In the case of a working man requiring 3500 calories, and consuming 120 grms. of protein per diem, this leaves about 3000 calories to be supplied by fats and carbohydrates. In determining the proportionate amounts of these, two factors have to be considered—first, the relative cost, and, second, the limitation of the power of digestion of each. VOL. VIII Carbohydrates are enormously cheaper than fats as a source of energy. Margarine at 8d. per lb. will yield 435 calories for a penny, while sugar at 2|d. per lb. will yield 1860 calories for the same sum. But the use of carbohydrates as a source of energy is limited by the fact that in most individuals digestive disturbances are apt to supervene if more than from 500 to 600 grms. are consumed. A diet should therefore not contain much more than 500 grms. of carbohydrates, and these will yield 2050 calories of energy. This leaves about 950 calories to be supplied by fats, an amount which is nearly met by 100 grms. of fat yielding 930 calories of energy. This quantity of fat most people can easily digest. A typical diet for an average man doing moderate muscular work would thus be— Proteins Carbohydrates Fats . Amount. 120 500 100 Energy Value in Calories. 492 2050 930 3472 or very nearly the 3500 calories. A reference to Atwater's table gives the dietary requirements of a woman or of a child of any age, and thus renders it easy to make out the diet of a family or public institution. The subject of dietetics cannot be left without alluding to the influence of two very universally used materials—alcohol and tea. Alcohol.—The influence of alcohol may ^be considered under two heads. \st. Before Absorption. — Moderate doses of alcohol taken along with food do not appear to interfere with the digestion and absorption of proteins, of carbohydrates, or of fats. When taken apart from food and in such excessive doses as to act as an irritant and to cause catarrh of the alimentary canal, alcohol of course has a prejudicial influence. 2nd. After Absorption.—The tissues have the power of oxidising a small quantity of alcohol, and since the combustion of 1 grm. of alcohol liberates 7 "06 calories of energy, alcohol must be regarded as a food just in the same way as sugar is a food. The amount of alcohol which can be thus oxidised varies in diff'erent indi- viduals, but the average man cannot use more than 50 grms. per diem. This is iso-dynamic with 85 grms. of proteins or carbohydrates. Any alcohol taken above the amount which can be oxidised is excreted in the urine and breath, and in its passage through the body it acts as a poison to the protoplasm, first diminishing its activity and so diminishing the rate of waste, and, secondly, causing the death of the protoplasm and the removal of the broken-down nitrogenous constituents in the urine. Its poisonous action on the liver is demonstrated by the diminished building vip of urea, so that a greater quantity of waste nitrogen is excreted 6