RHEUMATISM, ACUTE 540 chiefly distributed there is much hyperaemia. Later there may be sclerosis and adhesion. The rheumatic poisons are injurious to the myocardium. In severe cases there is consider- able fatty degeneration of the fibres, and though this change is most evident beneath the inflamed pericardium, it occurs throughout the heart wall, and is especially noticeable in the neigh- bourhood of the blood capillaries. In some cases there may also be considerable cell exuda- tion in the fibrous tissue between the muscle bundles, and when the process is long continued a definite fibrosis of the heart wall results. Acute arteritis has been described by Legroux as a result of rheumatic fever. The changes commence immediately beneath the lining of the vessel wall, and are of the usual type. Another morbid change in connection with the cardio-vascular system is a fibrosis around the arterioles and capillaries, and is of interest as seeming to throw some light upon the path- ology of arterio-capillary fibrosis. Phlebitis with consequent thrombosis may also result from the rheumatic process. There is absence of suppuration, and in severe cases after the process has subsided the clot is organ- ised and the vessel converted into a fibrous cord. The study of the morbid anatomy of such viscera as the lungs, the liver, the spleen, and the kidneys is a more difficult matter. There are the complicating factors of cardiac failure from mechanical embarrassment due to injury of the valves and consequent " backworking." There is also the fortunate rarity of death from a first attack. We are cramped, too, by such familiar terms as " nutmegged liver," " mechani- cal congestion of the lungs," and " cyanotic induration of the kidneys." Yet there are good reasons to believe that, apart from the well- recognised and definite changes due to cardiac failure, there is also another series of changes in these viscera, the direct result of the rheu- matic infection. The Lungs.—Pneumonia, for example, is one of this series. Rheumatic pneumonia is broncho-pneumonic in its distribution and seldom massive, as is the pneumonia due to the diplococcus lanceolatus. The patches are generally near the pleural surface of the lung, though in some cases they are scattered throughout. There is some amount of pulmonary collapse around these areas of pneumonic change. The blood-vessels are greatly distended, and there are often haemorrhages in the alveoli, which also contain endothelial cells and leucocytes, but, as a rule, not a well-marked network of fibrin. The diplococci, which are very small and not lanceolate, are sometimes present in great numbers in the exudation. Apart from mechanical congestion of the lungs, a definite pulmonary oedema sometimes occurs which is most marked in the upper lobes. The lung is firm, but doughy on pressure, and on section much oedema fluid can be squeezed from the cut surface. Microscopic examination shows that the alveoli are full of this oedema fluid. The Liver.—In a fatal first attack of rheu- matic fever, when there is no oedema or other definite evidence of "backworking," the liver will be found uniformly pale, and a section of such a liver shows extensive fatty changes, which have not the distribution characteristic of the " nutmeg liver." The change is general, and most probably the direct effect of the rheumatic poison. The occurrence of haemato- porphyrinuria has, from quite another line of evidence, been pointed out by Dr. A. E. Garrod as extremely suggestive of alteration in the hepatic metabolism in rheumatic fever. The Spleen.—In some of the more malignant types the spleen, as pointed out by Professor Litten, is uniformly enlarged, without a trace of infarction to account for it. But, as a rule, the spleen does not seem to be one of the viscera which is much altered by the direct effect of rheumatic fever. The Kidneys. —In severe cases there may be well-marked cloudy swelling, coagulation nec- rosis, and fatty change in the cells of the con- voluted tubules of the kidneys, and it is very probable that the toxins are excreted by this channel and are the cause of these changes. Hsematuria, apart from infarction, may result in the malignant types of the disease, and albuminuria may also occur, both of which occurrences lend support to the view that the rheumatic poisons have a direct action upon the kidneys, though in man this is not usually of a severe type. The diplococcus can be isolated from the urine in virulent cases of rheumatic fever. The Brain.—The morbid changes in rheu- matic chorea are extremely difficult to ascertain, the opportunities are so rare, and the brain so difficult to thoroughly investigate. Hyperasmia and minute haemorrhages, exudation around the capillary blood-vessels, cloudy swelling of the neurones, sometimes minute emboli or throm- boses, and a slight leptomeningitis, are among the changes observed, and are such as we should be led to expect. After death from hyperpyrexia, as a rule, no definite morbid changes have been found in the brain. Angina Faucium.—The faucial inflammation is in no way distinctive; it is usually catarrhal and rarely suppurative, but there may be a membranous deposit upon the tonsils or a con- dition of follicular tonsillitis. From repeated attacks considerable fibrosis of the tonsils results, and a section through such tonsils may show loculi containing inflammatory exudation at some distance from the surface. The diplococcus gains access to the system