276 PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—OTHER AFFECTIONS AND COMPLICATIONS condition. Diabetics are not necessarily sterile, but pregnancy is very liable to be interrupted in its course, and nearly always in consequence of foetal death. Diabetes insipidus has been noted in many cases of pregnancy. The amount of urine passed may reach as much as 300 ounces in 24 hours. It appears to set in about the fifth or sixth month, and to disappear entirely after labour. III. Cardio-vascular Disturbances.—Dur- ing pregnancy the work of the heart is aug- mented owing to the larger quantity of blood and the increased resistance in its circulation. During the later months this task is added to in consequence of the decreased power of expan- sion of the thorax and the compression of the large abdominal veins by the pregnant uterus. In spite of this additional work, a healthy heart is possessed of so much reserve force that hyper- trophy is unnecessary. Larcher affirms that in all cases of pregnancy there is hypertrophy of the left ventricle. Should the balance between the heart's beat and the increased amount of blood be disturbed we meet with such complica- tions as palpitation, temporary vertigo, faint- ness, and dyspnoea; these need give rise to no anxiety provided the heart muscle and valves are sound. The pregnant woman may be the subject of several/oj7?is of cardiac lesion. They ai'e : (1) Adhesions from former pericarditis, among which would be included those in which the heart has been displaced by pleural adhesions; (2) Myo- carditis and degeneration of the cardiac muscle ; (3) Endocarditis, chiefly affecting the valves (valvular heart disease); and (4) Acute endo- carditis grafted upon the chronic form. It is important to bear in mind that valvular disease is not the only form of cardiac disorder which may give trouble : all the above-mentioned con- ditions may produce much distress and danger when complicating pregnancy, and it is fre- quently less often owing to a disturbed valvular mechanism than to a loss of reserve force of the heart that the so-called compensatory disturb- ances arise. When compensation becomes in- sufficient during pregnancy certain phenomena occur in greater or less severity: these are varicosities of the legs and labia, oedema of the feet, legs, and vulva, or even general anasarca, palpitation, and syncope, irritable cough, bron- chitis with dyspnoea and cyanosis, haemoptysis, albiiminuria, and, lastly, serous effusions into the peritoneal and pleural cavities. Aortic stenosis is certainly the most dangerous form of valvular lesion; but many women with marked mitral lesions may go through preg- nancy and labour without untowai'd symptoms arising, provided compensation be present. Abortion and premature labour occur frequently, and it is proved by statistics that fatal results are nearly twice as frequent in cardiopathic multiparse as in primigravidie. Treatment in mild cases should be confined to the avoidance of over-fatigue, too much stair- work, and the regulation of the bowels, straining at stool being especially avoided. Compensatory disturbances may appear as early as the ninth week of pregnancy, though as a rule not until the fifth month. Should albuminuria set in it must be looked upon as a serious phenomenon. As a rule a mixture of liquor arsenicalis, TtXv., and liquor ferri dialysati Ttlx., or liquor strych- niae TJlv. thrice daily, will counteract the an- semia and want of tone in these cases; a stimu- lating mixture of ether and ammonia will be useful to cope with the attacks of syncope. Should marked oedema or effusion set in with dyspnoja, the exhibition of digitalis in the form of tincture or infusion will be indicated, more especially where the lesion is valvular and of the mitral variety; it is contra-indicated in aortic disease. Tincture of strophanthus (niiii.- Ttix.) is in some cases an extremely valuable heart tonic, but its administration is also not advisable in aortic stenosis. Treatment by in- duction of abortion may be attended by very grave results. Schlager reports three cases in which he resorted to induction of premature labour, all of which terminated fatally. We must consider that the condition of any patient in which it is thought necessary is one of ex- treme gravity, and the mere fact of interrupting the pregnancy will not stay the cardiac de- generation which is going on. Varicose veins are most often observed in multiparse, although they are not uncommon in primigravidse. They may be capillary in form, " in which case an arborescent network of bluish vessels is seen round the ankles, and especially on the inner surface of the thighs."' The deep veins lying below the point of division of the iliac veins are also involved, as is shown by the constant occurrence of haemorrhoids and vulval varicocele. The left limb is affected more than the right, and more towards the latter end of pregnancy. The chief danger in connection with these varicosities is the possibility of thrombosis and embolism. Spiegelberg has seen four fatal cases, of this kind. Another danger is that by ulcera- tion or traumatism one of the veins may rupture and profuse haemorrhage follow. This is especi- ally the case in the vulva, where the accidental rupture of a plexus by a broken utensil has been known to lead to fatal bleeding. Hcemo^'rhoids are probably the most frequent and distressing complications of advanced preg- nancy ; treatment should be upon the same lines as in the non-gravid state, and requires no further notice here. Thyroid enlargement is very usual to a slight extent, and was observed by ancient writers; it is, as a rule, a purely vascular change, and unless there is a true goitre present, disappears after the termination of the pregnancy.