PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—HEMORRHAGE 292 (2) Hofmeier and Kaltenbach attribute pla- centa prsevia to a portion of the placenta being- developed out of chorionic villi which are implanted in the decidiia reflexa, instead of only out of those that ai'e implanted in the decidua serotina. The tongue of placenta thus formed becomes attached to the lower pole of the uterus as the ovum grows. (3) That a placenta prsevia is merely a nor- mally situated placenta, which, owing to its size, has extended into the lower uterine segment. This may be the case in some instances, but in the majority of cases the placenta is no larger than is normal. Whatever may be the cause of the low in- sertion of the placenta, the bleeding which results from it is started by the expansion of the lower pole of the uterus consequent upon the formation of the lower uterine segment during the later months of pregnancy. As a result, the placental site becomes too large for the placenta, and detachment ensues (Jacque- mier). Pinard thinks, on the other hand, that the detachment is due to the painless contractions of the uterus, which, by diminishing the size of the middle and upper portions of the cavity, tend to increase the size of the lower, and so to pull it away from the placenta. Occasionally haemorrhage may occur, due, not to the detachment of the placenta, but to the rupture of the circular sinus, a large vein which runs round the placenta. This is an accident which is specially likely to occur when the edge of the placenta is over the os, but its occurrence has also been noticed in cases of normally situated placentae. Varieties.—A placenta prse via is termed central, marginal, or lateral, according as it completely covers the os, just reaches its edge, or merely extends into the lower uterine segment without reaching the inner os (v. Fig. 3). It will be at once obvious that these relationships will materi- ally alter according to the size of the os. Thus, what may be apparently a central placenta prgevia at the commencement of labour, will as the OS dilates become marginal, and so it is essential for clearness' sake to specify the size of the OS at the time at which the examination is made. Symptoms.—The chief symptom is, the occur- rence of an attack of heemorrhage, coming on without any apparent cause, and of more or less severity. The first attack of htemorrhage, if not treated, may be sufficiently profuse to cause the death of the patient, but such an occui'rence is very rare. More commonly she recovers from it, only to have a second attack in from eight to ten days, and this in turn is followed by others. The haemorrhage of placenta praevia is, essentially, a haemorrhage of re- petitions (Ribemont-Dessaignes). As in acci- dental haemorrhage, the bleeding is most severe during a contraction of the uterus. This, in Fig. 3. —Diagram representing the various situations of the placenta. A, Normal situation ; B, placenta praevia cen- tralis ; C, placenta prsevia marginalis ; D, placenta pra;via lateralis. (Modi- fied from 2'/ie Norris Text-book of Obstetrics.) placenta praevia, is due to the fact that the vessels which supply the placenta lie below the contraction ring, and consequently during a contraction not only are they not obsti'ucted, but the pressure in them is in- creased, owing to the obstruc- tion offered to branches run- ning above the contraction ring. If the bleeding continues, the usual symptoms of collapse ap- pear. Diagnosis.— There is but one really reliable method of diag- nosing aplacenta praevia, that is by feeling it through the cer- vical canal, or, if that is closed, through the lateral fornices. In almost all cases in which our attention is called to the condition by haemorrhage, the cervix will be found to be sufficiently dilated to admit two fingers, so that there is rarely any difl&culty in determining the position of the placenta. The latter is felt as a spongy mass, either completely covering over the os internum or lying to one or other side of it {v. Fig. 4). A blood-clot which has become adherent to the membranes in either of these situations is the thing most likely to be confounded with it. A distinction can be made by noting the manner in which a clot can easily be squeezed through between the fingers, while a portion of placenta cannot. If the cervical canal is closed, the placenta can be felt as a thick soft mass lying between the uterine wall and the presenting part at one or other side. The cervix and the lower uterine segment are also softer than usual, and the vessels of the lateral fornix are enlarged and pulsate more strongly than normal. If the placenta cannot be felt, the case is to be treated as one of accidental haemorrhage. A placenta praevia may also be diagnosed by abdominal palpation, be done by noticing that there is which either displaces the presenting part to one or other side of the false pelvis, or jDrevents it from descending through the brim. Then, on very careful palpation, a soft mass may be felt at the side from which the presenting part has been displaced. If the presenting part has become fixed in the brim, it is almost sometimes This can something