335 PSORIASIS See also Alopecia {Associated Diseases); Gout {Irregular, Cutaneous System); Hydropathy {Uses, Affections of the Skin) ; Leucocytosis {Eosinophilic, in Psoriasis) ; Nails, Affections OF THE {In Psoriasis); Rheumatism, Acute {Cutaneous Manifestations); Rheumatism, Rheu- matoid Arthritis {Psoriasis); Rheumatism, Chronic {Clinical Features). Synonyms : Lepra (Willan), Alphos (E. Wilson) are both obsolete. Fr. Psoriasis; Ger. Psoriasis, Schuppenfiecle. Definition.—A chronic and recurrent dis- ease, characterised by dry, red inflammatory discs almost concealed by a crust of adherent silvery scales. Clinical Features.—Psoriasis is one of the most common diseases of the skin in Northern Europe, where it constitutes from seven to eight per cent of all skin diseases ; while in Southern Europe and America it only occurs in from two to three per cent. In private practice it is the second most common disease. Most of the varieties created by older writers were artificial, and little more than convenient labels for different stages in the evolution and involution of the disease, their chief justification being that the eruption may stop at any of the stages for a considerable time, and even dis- appear without traversing the complete gamut of development and involution. Psoriasis commences as a papule the size of a pin's head, slightly reddened and scaly from the first, though sometimes a slight scratch with the nail is required to demonstrate the scaly cap. This stage is P. punctata. It soon flattens and enlarges peripherally to a scaly spot (P. guttata), and this again to a disc which may develop to or stop short at any size from a threepenny to a crown piece (P. nummulata). Isolated patches are seldom larger than this, but by coalescence with other patches an ex- tensive area may be covered (P. diff'usa), the borders of which are gyrately outlined. In the retrogressive stage, involution commences in the centre, by a diminution in redness and scaliness going on to complete clearing away, leaving a circle with raised scaly border and normal or slightly pigmented centre in an isolated disc, or an irregular, gyrately outlined area with the border one-eighth to one-quarter inch wide in a compound patch. In a few cases these circinate and gyrate patterns are formed primarily from the eruptive elements having formed at and followed the distribution of the hair follicles, which constitutes what Willan called Lepra, a term now restricted to leprosy. Reverting to the nummulate stage, which may be considered as the most typical condition, it may be observed that the lesion is a disc slightly elevated above and sharply defined from the surrounding healthy skin. All but the extreme edge, and sometimes even that, is covered with a white crust of adherent scales, their silvery hue being due to inclusion of minute air-bubbles in their substance. This crust is not easily attachable until involution sets in, but if removed forcibly the exposed base is seen to be of a red colour, with still brighter red points upon it which bleed readily, and are really the tops of exposed and enlarged papilke of the cutis. The thickness of the crust varies greatly, and in extreme instances the scales are heaped up into a conical crust like rupia, hence the term P. rupioides. In almost all cases the crust is entirely composed of scales, but occa- sionally there is slight pustular exudation mixed with them, hence P. empyodes. Itching is not a marked feature as a rule, but in gouty and alcoholic patients, and whenever there is marked hyperpcmia, the irritation may be very pronounced, and the consequent scratch- ing produces thickening of the patches, blood crusts, and excoriations. The distribution of the eruption is an im- portant feature in the general picture of the disease. Symmetrical in the main, there is a selective affinity for the extensor aspects of the limbs, especially about the elbows and knees, where the patches are apt to aggregate and coalesce even when scattered discretely in various sized discs over other parts of the body surface. No part of the body is absolutely exempt from the eruption, but the palms, and soles, and lower part of the face visually escape altogether, or are but slightly involved; but sometimes they are the first and the worst parts affected. As a rule, next in order to the limbs, the scalp and the back of the trunk are most frequently and extensively involved. When every region of the body is extensively invaded P. universalis is present, but there are always some areas of healthy skin. In a well-marked, fully-developed case, in a general survey, the eruption may be seen in all stages of development at once, affecting a large portion of the body surface ; but however long the eruption has been out, and the patches have grown and coalesced, there are always some areas left clear of eruption. In most cases, however, there are in the first attack very few patches, and these may be confined to one or two regions, such as the knees, elbows, or scalp, for a very long time, and then either gradually or rapidly extend. On the other hand, in some patients who have had previous attacks there may be an abundant outbreak from the tirst; the eruption comes out in ci-ops at short intervals, and speedily involves every region of the body. Between these extremes there are all gradations. Most cases run a very slow course, and whilst some, especially young subjects, may lose their eruption spontaneously for a time, in others there are remissions only, the disease lasting, unless vigorously treated, for many years.