OPTIC NERVE 527 RETINA AND disease, or secondary to choroidal inflammation, and is generally, but not always, associated with peculiar deposits of pigment in the atrophied tissue. The primary or idiopathic form of the disease is symmetrical and very slowly progressive, usually beginning in early life, and often termi- nating in blindness about the age of fifty. Night-blindness is the earliest and most charac- teristic symptom. There is next loss of visual field, generally first in the form of an annular scotoma, which broadens both outwards and inwards until a small central field alone remains. Central vision may remain good for a long time, but gradually deteriorates, and opacities forming at the posterior pole of the lens still further reduce the sight. The affection is often found in several members of the same family, and sometimes in successive generations. Con- sanguinity of parents is occasionally found, bixt it is doubtful if this is the direct cause even in these cases; this relationship may simply intensify an already existing predisposition. The true etiology is quite obscure. Ophthalmoscopic examination shows, nearly always, much pigment in the retina, largely in its inner layers; here black masses, shaped somewhat like bone corpuscles, lie superficially to the level of the retinal blood-vessels. This pigmentary deposit is found chiefly in a belt midway between the centre and periphery of the fundus, and there is also thinning of the pigment layer, with probably atropliy of the chorio-capillaris, so that the deep choroidal vessels become clearly visible. No constant relation exists between the amount of pigment and the loss of sight; indeed, as has been already mentioned, we may have the usual symptoms and course of the disease without the presence of any abnormal pigment in the retina. What is visually of more importance is the extent in which the circulation of the retina suffers, and this varies considerably. In the worst cases there is marked diminution in the size of the retinal vessels, especially the arteries, which may be reduced to mere fine threads; and the disc shows an opaque, yellowish red, waxy atrophy. Similar changes in the retina and optic nerves are found, not infrequently, secondary to chor- oidal inflammation ; in such cases, of course, we have the atrophic changes in the choroid in addition, and usually of the disseminated type. When the retinal changes occur, primarily or secondarily, the clinical symptoms are the same. Pathological examination of the retina shows an increase of the connective tissue framework, atrophy of the nervous elements, and thickening of the walls of the arteries. There is atrophy and disintegration of the pigment epithelium, and the retina proper is infilti-ated with aggre- gations of pigment granules, thence derived. These travel forwards in the lymph channels of the retina, particularly those surrounding the retinal vessels, and collect in large conspicuous masses at the vascular branchings. In a variety of the affection known as retinitis punctata albescens there is not only absence of the usual pigmentation, but there are numerous small white spots which are distributed fairly uniformly over the fundus, rather in excess at the periphery. Treatment.—Galvanism is, we believe, the only form of treatment of any avail in retinitis pigmentosa. It sometimes causes a marked temporary improvement both in field and in central acuity. If it prove serviceable in any case it should be persevered with for some considerable time, and resorted to again when there is a renewed visual failure. Embolism and thrombosis of the central ARTERY may be considered together, as they cause similar effects on vision, and are accom- panied by identical retinal changes. The arteria centralis itself may be implicated, or one of its branches, and the obstruction may be complete or partial. Embolism is the probable cause when there is cardiac disease, especially mitral, or atheroma of the aorta. It is more common in the left eye than in the right. When Bright's disease is present, and particularly when the retinal arteries show hyaline degeneration, thrombosis is to be suspected ; not infrequently temporary attacks of loss of vision precede the permanent one. In complete obstruction of the artery, from either cause, the leading symptom is sudden blindness of the affected eye. There is sometimes a temporary improvement a few hours later, from the establishment of an imperfect collateral circulation at the disc, but the usual final result is absolute blindness. In obstruction of a branch the visual defect is generally partial from the first, the final result likewise being loss of vision corresponding to the distribution of the affected branch. Ophthalmoscopic Appearances.—Within a few hours of the occurrence of obstruction the retina shows a diffuse milky opacity from oedema, best marked in the macula and the neighbourhood of the disc. In the centre of the opaque macula a bright red spot indicates the position of the fovea centralis, where the normal chorio-capillaris red reflex shines through the thin retinal epithelial layers, and appears exceptionally red by contrast with the surround- ing cloudiness. The disc is pale, with soft, blurred edges. The arteries are much narrowed, and no pulsation can be evoked by pressure on the globe. After a day or two the retinal arteries become broader again from partial refilling, and the blood in some cases is seen, both in the arteries and veins, in the form of short, detached columns separated by clear intervals; these columns move in a jerky fashion, with