460 RABIES belladonna, exhibit some symptoms akin to rabies. In delirium tremens, hallucinations and de- lirium usher in the attack ; whereas in rabies, spasms and respiratory disorders predominate from the outset. Paralytic rabies is a form of acute paralysis, whose etiology is the only guide to its correct diagnosis. It is generally a simple matter to recognise human rabies; it is a more difficult task to foresee and determine rabies in the dog, but this is a matter of the gravest importance ; and this diagnosis is absolutely necessary in order to judge of the course to be pursued in treating the bitten man or animal. Rabies is not always easy to recognise in the living animal. It is necessary to shut up the suspected dog and keep him under vigilant observation for at least forty-eight hours. By killing the dog too soon the risk is run of not obtaining from the autopsy definite or satisfac- tory indications of the disease. In cases where the presumption of rabies justifies it, the animal must be slaughtered, and a diagnosis made by a post-mortem ex- amination. The same examination should be made by the veterinary surgeon, even if the animal has been slaughtered before he sees it. The presence of foreign substances in the stomach and intestines, the absence of food in the alimentary canal, dryness of and accretions on the mucous membrane, the presence of glycosuria, are indications of the disease, but not conclusive ones. The histological examination of the nerve centres furnishes still more convincing proofs. Babes studied a portion of the medulla of a dog, and searched for the rabic nodules (see p. 460) formed on the nerve tissues and surrounded by areas of small cell infiltration. Their presence convinced him that the case was one of true rabies. Van Gehuchten studied the ganglion of the pneumogastric nerve, and asserted that in rabic animals there were specific alterations of the nerve cells. Piliet and Vallet admit that the lesions described by Van Gehuchten are peculiar to rabies, but they appertain to an advanced stage of the disease, and are never found in the animals slaughtered in the early stages of the disease. Marinisco considers that the nerve lesions noted by Bab^s and Van Gehuchten are unreliable symptoms, being neither specific nor invariable. To obtain a correct diagnosis, we must have recourse to bacteriological proof, a portion of the medulla of the suspected animal being aseptically inoculated into the eye of several susceptible animals, such as dogs or rabbits. Unfortunately this diagnosis is a very lengthy process, satisfactory results seldom being ob- tained before thirty or forty days, indeed often not till the ninetieth day. Therefore persons who have been bitten should at once be sent to the Pasteur Institute without waiting for this tardy result. Pathological Anatomy.—For a long time the anatomical lesions of rabies were entirely unobserved. By degrees physicians began to describe certain vascular lesions in conjunction with small cell infiltrations of the nerve centres, and in consequence rabies was treated as an encephalic myelitis. Since 1890 histologists have observed various microscopic lesions, the exact nature of which has not yet been explained. At the autopsy of a man or animal who has died of rabies, the cerebral and spinal meninges are invariably found to be greatly congested and oedematous, with haemorrhages at the vein centres. The adjacent nerve tissue presents a congested appearance, with small hsemorrhagic spots. These lesions are most numerous in the region of the medulla, the basal ganglia, spinal cord, and anterior and posterior nerve roots. Microscopical examination reveals alterations in the blood-vessels; they are surrounded by small cell infiltrations, which give them a moniliform appearance. These nodules consist of clusters of round perivascular cells. The veins appear to have undergone a hyaline degeneration (Kolesnikofi'). There is also small cell infiltra- tion and a multiplication of the fixed cells, the transparency of the veins becoming obscured by a thrombus or by the accumulation of leucocytes. The diseased veins are liable to burst. Benedict found miliary aneurysms; Schaffer and Babes observed capillary hsemor- rhages. The nerve cells of the cord and the medulla undergo marked alterations. Schaff"er and Poppof studied the pigmentary atrophy of the cells in two cases of human rabies. Babes, Golgi, Nagy, Marinisco, etc., describe these chromatic phenomena, changes in the colouring matter and in the protoplasmic cells, actual disappearance of the chromatic elements, vascular degeneration, loss of the cellular pro- longment, and modification and disappearance of the nucleus. Babes follows up Kolesnikoff and Coats in describing the relations between the cells; tells how they are invaded by small round cells and hyaline corpuscles. He lays special stress on the pericellular miliary foci, which he styles rabic tvibercles, and deems an invariable accompaniment of rabies. Van Gehvichten and Nelis studied the lesions of the cerebro-spinal ganglia, which they in their turn consider specially characteristic of rabies. Numerous nerve cells disappear, and are re- placed by clusters of small round cells. The remaining cells present various lesions of the protoplasm and nucleus; at times even the nerve cells of the ganglion entirely disappear. These lesions attain their maximum in the nodose ganglion of the pneumogastric. Polaillon and Nerven had already noticed analogous lesions in the Gasserian ganglion. The most noteworthy A