150 PLEURA, AFf^ECTIONS OF THE—SURGICAL hsemorrhagic eftiision may occur in many other states, like tuberculosis, scurvy, nephritis, the exanthemata, and heemophilia. After aspiration in tumour cases the dulness, diminished fremitus, and resonance may remain. Further, the dis- placement of the heart or diaphragm is remark- ably slight, and there are usually no signs of pressure on the vessels, trachea, or ojsophagus. The chest may even be retracted in some cases. Prognosis is uniformly unfavourable. Most sufferers die in from two to six months, in rare instances they linger for one or two years. Treatment.—Extirpation is impossible. Even aspiration should not be resorted to very frequently, but only used when the dyspnoea demands. Exploration of the Pleura Paracentesis Thoracis—Thoracentesis—Aspira- tion of the Pleura.—Aspiration or tapping of the pleura may be required in hydrothorax, hsemothorax, chylothorax, pneumothorax, tuber- cular and malignant efTusions, ordinary serous pleurisy, and empyema. It may be regarded as exploratory or curative. The reader is referred to the preceding articles for the indications as to its employment in these conditions. The operation may be performed with a trocar and cannula, or the cannula may be furnished with a long rubber tube to assist by siphonage. Southey's capillary trocars may be used when a very gradual removal of the fluid seems advisable. All of these methods may fail to empty the pleura, and therefore most operators prefer an aspirator. Two foi'ms of this instrument have their advocates— Dieulafoy's syringe aspirator and Potain's bottle aspirator. The latter is more rapid and less laborious to work owing to the larger vacuum engaged, but Dieulafoy's instrument is the safer, as it can be more accurately gauged and controlled in the event of pain, bleeding, or syncope supervening. It is assumed that the instruments have been sterilised, and that the hands of the operator and the skin of the patient have been cleansed with soap and water, rubbed with ether or alcohol, and finally moistened with carbolic lotion 1 in 40, or a mercurial lotion 1 in 1000. The patient should be recumbent or nearly so. No general anaesthetic is needed, even in children; and local anjesthesia by freezing or cocaine is also best avoided, as the former hardens the tissues, and the latter may cause a misleading syncope. The puncture should not be made too low down, lest the abdomen be entered. Any intei'- space from the fifth to the eighth inclusive on the left side, and either the fifth or sixth on the right, will suit, as the vacuum renders the operation independent of gravitation. The needle should be of good size, yVtV hich, and the trocar and cannula mount is preferable to the single needle, as the cannula can be cleared if blocked by coagula. Guarded by the fore- finger, and guided by the left forefinger pushed into the interspace, the needle should be con- fidently thrust through the middle of the space. A hesitating movement is apt to push the thickened pleura before the needle and fail to lodge it in the cavity. For a similar reason a hypodermic syringe, often used in the pre- liminary exploration, is not to be recommended, as from the shortness and fineness of its needle and feeble suction it may fail to reach and draw a sample of the fluid. The evacuation should proceed slowly, particularly in left-sided cases in which there is marked displacement of organs; and if bleeding, pain, spasmodic cough, or syncope arise it will be well to suspend or stop the operation. In the event of bleeding it is un- wise to resume; but in the three other con- ditions mentioned, the operator may judge by their severity and persistence whether he may proceed. In the absence of these symptoms, it is best to wholly empty the cavity, as the absorption of the residue, after removal of a part of the fluid, does not occur so frequently as to entitle one to calculate upon its occurrence. At the close the puncture may be sealed with an antiseptic pad and strapping, or it may be painted with collodion. It is neither necessary nor desirable to bind the chest after aspiration; on the contrary, the respiratory movements should be encouraged. Difficulties in the operation may arise from close approximation of the ribs, thickening of the pleura, a midtiloculated condition, and much coagulation of the fluid. Care should be taken not to wound the heart, pericardium, or the abdominal organs. Wounding of the intercostal vessels need not be feared. Two special risks require more detailed notice, viz. syncope and acute pulmonary oedema. Syncope is not uncommon during the progress of the operation, and is to be promptly combated by diffusible stimulants, nitrites, and by hypo- dermic injections of strychnia and ether. Acute oedema of the lung (L'expectoration albumineuse, Terrillon), with copious expectora- tion of serum, is believed to be due to the sudden release of the lung from pressure, with vaso-motor changes and consequent flooding of the air vesicles with serum strained off from the dilated capillaries. It is an alarming con- dition and fortunately rare. We are unable "to foresee, prevent, or alleviate it" (S. Paget). ffidema is moi-e likely to follow the too rapid evacuation of a large effusion, and the onset may be immediate, or be delayed for a few minutes or an hour or two. The duration of the attack may only be a few minutes, or extend to hours or days. The patient becomes cyanosed, oppressed in breathing, with incessant cough, and may expectorate in an hour or two one to