PUERPERIUM, PATHOLOGY OF 373 evaporating lotion, as eau-de-Cologne or vinegar diluted with water, gives relief. In addition, graduated pressure should be adopted by means of layers of cotton-wool kept firmly applied by bandages, or by an ordinary tightly fitting slip-bodice. If the breasts are pendulous, slinging them in a silk handkerchief is a great comfort if pressure cannot be borne. Suckling on the affected side must be desisted from, and a breast-pump, or preferably careful massage, substituted. When there is great engorgement more vigorous measures are required. Free saline purgation, antiseptic fomentations, and a dry and restricted diet are the first indi- cations. The breast-pump should be used, and the breast massaged from the base towards the nipple with warm olive oil alone, or combined with an equal part of belladonna liniment. Frequently the breasts can be kept empty by means of massage when the application of the breast-pump is painful and unsatisfactory. The breast-pump only withdraws milk from the large ducts near the nipple, so that to empty the breast thoroughly the use of the pump should be combined with massage. If the child is off the breast, belladonna or atropine can be given internally, combined with full doses of iodide of potassium. Sculptor's clay has been recommended as an application in mastitis. It is spread thickly under a bandage over the breast, leaving the nipple free, and is renewed morning and evening. The temperature may rise to 102° F. or 103° F. in simple engorgement, and thus simulate abscess formation. (5) When symptoms of abscess show them- selves, massage and compression must cease, and the abscess is treated on ordinary surgical principles. (c) Milk Nodes. — Owing to the constriction of one or more lacteal canals, inspissated milk may collect and remain for an indefinite period, forming swellings in the breast. Treatment. — Promote their absorption by massage, with the application of a 5 per cent oleate of mercury ointment. {d) Galactocele is the result of permanent occlusion of a lactiferous duct. The retained milk forms a cystic tumour which may require surgical interference. (e) Fistulai may be of two kinds—first, the result of an abscess which has not closed; and second, a communication between the skin and a lacteal duct, caused by injury to the duct by a penetrating abscess, or by the surgeon's knife. In either case lactation should be given up. (/) Anomalies.—Congenital absence of one or both breasts may occur, or more frequently there may be a small breast which is valueless for lactation. There may be supernumerary mammary glands, which for the most part are functionless. {g) The puerperal mamma may be affected with tubercle, erysipelas, and moUuscum con- tagiosum, the latter derived from the child's face. 4. Conditions interfering with Suckling See also " Infant Feeding," vol. iv. p. 389. (a) Artificial Arrest of Lactation.—Lactation may be arrested at three periods :—(1) Immedi- ately after delivery, before full secretion has been established; (2) during the course of lactation at any time ; and (3) at the end of the period of lactation. The secretion can be most easily arrested, and with least disturbance to the patient, at the first or third of these periods. Means of Arrest.—In the first period this can generally be accomplished by (a) pressure, as already described under the treatment of " mastitis," if possible before engorgement has begun; (^8) purgation—early administration of saline purges—and a " dry diet" ; (y) gentle massage; (S) abstraction of a small quantity of milk by the breast-pump to prevent dangerous engorgement during the first few days; (c) iodide of potassium (gr. xx. to xxx.) and bella- donna internally ; locally some preparation of belladonna, or atropine ointment (gr. j. to 5j.). Belladonna plasters may be applied in such a way as to keep the nipple uncovered. Plasters, however, sometimes cause irritation, and inflam- mation may go on unrecognised beneath them. A plaster 6" x 6" is sufficient for each breast. In the second period compression, free purga- tion, and dry diet are the chief means of arrest. After massage and suction during this period the breasts tend rapidly to refill, and therefore such treatment is not so satisfactory in this as in the first stage. If, however, nodular masses form in the breast, indicating insufficient milk drainage, early massage is necessary to prevent the possibility of mastitis. If the massage causes pain, the application of a mixture of equal parts of glycerine and extract of bella- donna, over which hot fomentations are applied, gives great relief, and so permits of the subse- quent use of massage. Internally iodide of potassium and belladonna should be given. In the third stage the arrest of the milk flow is simply natural weaning, and is discussed under that heading in the article on " Infant Feeding." Any slight tension of the breast which may occur at this time, when a " nursing " has been omitted, can be reduced by gentle massage with or withovit a short application of the breast-pump. (6) Abnormalities of HumanMilk.—These have already been fully discussed in the article on " Infant Feeding." It only remains to be added that healthy mothers' milk does not come from the breast absolutely sterile. The micro-organ- isms commonly found are staphylococcus pyogenes alhus and aureus, which probably find their way into the milk from without through the milk