326 PRURIGO AND PRURITUS degrees of constancy. Those who take this view regard the eruption on the skin in all A'arieties of prurigo and pruritus as merely reactions of the integument to traumatism, or to accidental microbic infection. This has been strongly insisted upon by Besnier and Brocq in France, by Hutchinson in England, and by Touton of Wiesbaden. On the other hand, Tommasoli regards the firm sero-papule, or, as we should say, the cystic papule, as the essential lesion of prurigo. For this reason he excludes from the prurigo series the lichenified forms of Brocq. But whoever holds this opinion is logically bound to accept the inference, namely, that the cystic papule is antecedent to the pruritus, and, in short, the actual cause of the disease and of the patient's suflPerings. Fxirther, if the lesion is specific its formation should follow a definite routine, and the microscopists would, in the main, agree as to its form and character. This, however, is not the case. Scarcely two histologists agree in their results (see Anatomy of Prurigo, p. 329). The cystic papule of prurigo is frequently found in eczema. Again, cases of prurigo occur, as shown by Neisser, in which prurigo begins with urticarial lesions and not with the sero-papule. Jacquet has pi'oved experimentally that pruri- ginous lesions may completely disappear simply by excluding them from all exterior influences, while at the same time the pruritus persists. In the light of this evidence we can only conclude with Besnier and Brocq that the eruptions on the skin in prurigo and allied disorders do not form an essential part of the disease, but are merely the reaction of the integument to traumatic influences. Our knowledge of these auto-traumatic lesions, or traumatides as I have ventured to call them (see p. 327), has been advanced by Brocq, who in 1891 lectured on the "theory of lichenifica- tion " (p. 327). Beyond this point we enter on more debatable ground. Whether we should follow Besnier's arrangement into four groups, each labelled Prurigo diathrsique, and differing according to the objective mode of cutaneous reaction, or Brocq's four varieties of N('vrodermite, is a matter for the future to decide. In the present article I have treated Py^urigo Hebrce as a symptom group. I recognise the existence of other groups belonging to the same series. But the arrangement adopted is categorical rather than scientific. General Characters of the Prurigo Series Before any disease can be admitted into the prurigo series it is essential that it possess the following characters:—The affection of the skin must first be latent. Without giving any eruptive sign the skin of the individual falls into a certain state, of which the first symptom is a sensation of itching or pruritus, this being- followed by moderate, or immoderate, bodily excitement (scratching), which provokes traumatic lesions in the skin. _ Pruritus.—To the question, What is pruritus % the physiologists of to-day can give no certain answer. Indeed, what little information we possess is the result of introspection based on a few facts culled from common experience. In order to awaken this sensation we only need to touch the surface with the point of some delicate object, such as a hair or the barb of a feather. Physiologists have elicited the fact that this property is not equally distributed all over the surface. Thus, if the back of the hand be touched lightly with the point of a hair, scarcely any sensation of itching is provoked, but if the side of the nose be touched in like manner there instantly arises a strong sense of itching. And, what is very curious, this sensation persists for an appreciable interval of time after the irritating object has been withdrawn. The sensation is rapidly followed by a considerable amount of bodily excitement. The magnitude of this excitement is out of all proportion to the delicate and feeble stimulus which provoked it. The excitement runs to a crisis commonly called scratching. After this there is a sudden abatement of the sensation. Thus the word pruritus connotes not merely a sensation, but a series of processes beginning in some latent changes in the surface of the skin and ending in scratching. These are not of necessity morbid processes. Itching is a property of the skin, and is to be regarded as one of the common sensations peculiar to the integument of all warm-blooded animals. As Professor Bronson points out in his admirable essay on the Se7isation of Itching, pruritus is closely associated with the animal sense of contact. He affirms that the sensations originating in the surface of the skin, that is, in the epidermis, are of a low order. They fail to convey to the mind any definite perceptive ideas regarding the properties of the thing that touches the surface. This is evidence that the sensation of itching starts in the undifferentiated nerves of the epidermis, and proceeds to the spinal cord with- out throwing into action the deeper specialised sense organs of the skin. No fact of common observation or in cutaneous pathology contra- venes this conclusion, so we may take it for granted that the seat of pruritis is the epidermis. Physiology has not yet given us a satis- factory reason for the muscular excitement which follows the pruritic stimulation of the free nerve ends. Bronson and Payne explain it by the vagueness of the stimulation and the involuntary desire to substitute "an effective energy for an ineffective vexation " (Bronson). It cannot be denied that the act of scratching is apparently directed to a certain end, and so