PUERPERIUM, PATHOLOGY OF 371 protective ointment should be applied, such as ung. bismuthi alone, or mixed with an equal quantity of boracic acid ointment. Com- pound tincture of benzoin or hazeline are also useful applications, which may be used alter- nately with the ointments. If there be erosion, nothing acts so well as ichthyol ointment, 15 to 20 per cent with lanoline, or iodoform ointment, gr. x. to 3j. Dusting with powdered tannic acid, or painting with a solution of silver nitrate, 2 per cent, may often be found useful. For a deep fissure a fine pointed stick of silver nitrate should be applied. A solution of chloral hydrate (4 per cent) may be tried, preceded by the application of a 5 per cent solution of cocain.i Corrosive sublimate solu- tion, 1 in 2000, should also be used as a wash. To give time for the healing process to occur, a nipple shield should be used if it can be borne, and if it does not tend to aggravate the fissure. If the shield cannot be borne, the breasts may be relieved artificially by massage, which may be continued for four days, nursing being again attempted at the end of that period. If a nipple shield is used it must be kept scrupu- lously clean, and when not in use should be kept in boracic acid solution. A slight fissure will usually heal up in about twenty-four hours with proper treatment, but in severe cases it may take longer. It is rarely necessary for the mother to give up nursing entirely, unless a mammary abscess is imminent, or unless the pain and distress are so intolerable that the patient cannot persevere. (b) Deep Inflammation and Abscess.—Inflam- mation of the deeper part of the nipples is rare. It may attack the lactiferous ducts or the connective tissue of the nipple, and may end in resolution or in the formation of a small abscess. If pus forms in the ducts, it becomes evacuated through the normal apertures, and is apt to be swallowed by the child. If the connective tissue is involved a painful abscess is apt to form, which may either burst spontaneously or require incision, after which it usually heals rapidly with antiseptic treat- ment. Lactation should be stopped for a few days. In using the bistoury the greatest care must be taken not to divide a milk duct transversely. (c) Eczema, scabies, herpes zoster, diphtheria, thrush, and syphilitic ulcers may affect the nipple. Eczema will be considered under affections of the areola. Syphilitic ulcers are to be treated on the ordinary principles of general and local treatment. If the child presents no sytnptoms of syphilis it should be weaned. These ulcers may be difficult to 1 Films of Uima's glycerine jelly form good pro- tective applications, with which may be incorporated ichthyol, carbolic acid, resorcin, boric acid, lead, zinc, tannin, etc. recognise as syphilitic; in such cases the enlargement of the axillary glands, sore throat, and a faint roseola on the skin should be carefully looked for. {d) Anomalies and Defects in Conformation.— The nipple may be absent congenitally, or from the result of injury or suppuration in infancy. The nipples may be small, ill-developed, or depressed, and there may be supernumerary nipples. The greatest variety exists in their development in different women. Some are bilobed or have an exaggerated foliaceous arrangement of the papillse with deep clefts and divisions. These latter are more apt to excoriate and crack during lactation, for the reasons already given ; and depression or in- vagination of the nipples is probably one of the most frequent factors in the etiology of mam- mary troubles during lactation. These defects should be remedied as far as possible by treat- ment during pregnancy, as already described. 2. Affections of the Areola {a) Eczema of the areola and nipple is more frequent in blonde women with delicate skins. It is often difficult to cure, and is apt to be obstinate under treatment, possibly from the presence of a staphylococcus in the milk, which is constantly reinfecting the areola (Stumpf). The predisposing causes are the moist and sodden condition of the areola, the result of nursing, the friction of clothes, and the entrance of micro-organisms into small excoriations or fissures. It may also arise from a discharging sinus, causing skin infection in a neglected case, combined with the results of poulticing in such cases. It is characterised by much itching and burning, by a moist discharge which stiffens linen and forms yellowish crusts. It is apt to spread to the adjacent skin, and if neglected may lead to fissure and mastitis. Treatment.—If possible the condition should be prevented from becoming chronic. To this end the parts should be kept as dry as possible, and the application of the powdered oleate of zinc produces, as a rule, gratifying results. In bad cases lactation should be stopped, or a gutta- percha nipple shield may be tried. The crusts should be removed by bathing them with either a weak solution of bicarbonate of soda, to which oatmeal flour is freely added, or warm rice-water, or a boracic starch poultice may be applied. After the crusts are removed in this way various applications may be tried. When there is much hj^ersemia mild soothing remedies should be used, and more stimulating treatment later. Ointments of zinc, salicylic acid, carbolic acid, liquor carbonis detergens, or ichthyol, and diluted citron (Velpeau) or sulphur ointments. More stimulating remedies, as re- sorcin, nitrate of silver, and corrosive sublimate, may be used later. When acute symptoms have subsided an ointment of nitrate of lead