RHEUMATISM, CHRONIC 579 for depletory, the latter calling for more stimu- lating measures. But this diiference in treat- ment is only sound in a restricted sense, i.e. with reference to the later stage of the disease, when we are treating the results of the disease. In the early stages of both diseases the principles of treatment {vide article " Gout," vol. iii.) are the same. Etiology.—The etiology of chronic rheumat- ism is quite unknown, and we do not possess evidence sufficient to warrant a definite theory being put forward for the causation of this disease. We have already pointed out the advisability of obtaining new facts which might materially advance our knowledge, viz. (a) the state of the vascular system—especially arteries and capillaries—in the affected tissues ; (6) the histological appearances of the various free mucous surfaces in the body—especially the gastro-intestinal tract and utero-vaginal mucous membrane ; and (c) fuller and more accurate information on the naked eye and microscopic appearance of the bone marrow. If to these we were to add the results of an investigation into the combination of various gross and minute changes in the renal, cardio-vascular, and nervous systems with chronic rheumatoid and rheumatic changes in the same subject, I believe a new chapter on the etiology of the disease could be written. And if we were to avail ourselves more of the wealth of clinical material obtainable from diseased subjects in the lower animal kingdom a great advance in our knowledge would be assured ; for the study of these subjects can be conducted with greater ease, and is productive of results at once fuller and more precise, than is possible in the case of the human subject. In the absence of this necessary information we shall only refer briefly to some of the views in vogue regarding the relationship of these diseases to each other, and thereafter merely mention a view which seems to present at any rate a prima facie case for a careful consideration. Three critical queries suggest themselves:— Firstly, Is it wise to accept the general tendency at the present time to regard rheu- matoid arthritis and true rheumatism as maladies essentially distinct and widely differing in their pathology 1 Secondly, In our zeal for classification and recognition of types, may there not be a ten- dency to fail to recognise certain general patho- logical principles underlying all these diseased processes 1 Thirdly, Should we regard " muscular rheu- matism " as a disease sui generis, not closely connected etiologically with articular and other manifestations of rheumatism 1 There would appear to be many facts which suggest that acute rheumatism, chronic rheu- matism, and rheumatoid arthritis are in reality closely related to each other, the varied clinical and pathological pictures merely representing diff'erent individual reactions to the same cause or group of causes. The grounds for this belief can only be briefly stated— (a) In practice there are frequently extreme difficulties in differentiating between acute rheumatism and acute polyarticular rheumatoid arthritis. In not a few cases the diagnosis is impossible. (6) It is well known and generally recognised that a typical pathological picture of rheum- atoid arthritis may develop as a sequel of infec- tion of the system with the virus of gonorrhoea and, more rarely, of other pathogenic bacteria. (c) A frequent investigation of all the cases of a I'heumatic or rheumatoid nature in the hospital wards of a large workhouse has con- vinced me of what may be termed their hybrid nature in a very large proportion of the cases seen. (d) We find a good deal of evidence in favour of the idea of some unity in the causation of these diseases in the writings of living authorities on these special departments. Thus it is ad- mitted " that there are cases in which deformity results from acute rheumatism and remains permanent. Such cases, though they resemble rheumatic fever in their varied manifestations, are in the character of the changes in the joint more akin to rheumatoid arthritis " (Poynton). In his article on rheumatoid arthritis in children {System of Medicine, Allbutt, vol. iii. p. 106), Still writes as follows : " Chronic fibrous rheu- matism seems to be the best name for a third disease which has probably been indiscriminately included under the term rheumatoid arthritis in children. Its etiology and pathology are probably identical with those of acute rheumat- ism "; and in the article on Chronic Rheumat- ism in the same volume, Garrod, after referring to the difficulties of nomenclature and classifica- tion, states— " We may group the cases to which the name of chronic rheumatism is more or less correctly applied under three heads as follows :— " (i.) Frequently recurring slight articular attacks, in rheumatic subjects. " (ii.) Cases of chronic abarticular rheumatism, a condition best seen in children. " (iii.) Joint lesions which persist after an attack or succession of attacks of acute or subacute rheumatism, and in some cases lead to permanent damage of the structures assailed." These expressions of opinion taken collectively seem to harmonise with the teachings of clinical experience as to the etiological relationship between the different manifestations of rheu- matic and rheumatoid disease in man, and they certainly lend colour to the suggestion that all these diseases may be due to the same cause or group of causes. The known facts of bacteriology prove that