PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 10 to explain this (S.A. is Serum Albumin, S.G. Serum Globulin):— Coagulability of Lymph, Serum, and Effusions. Plasma and Lymph. Serous Effusion. Serum. S.A. S.G. Fibrinogen. Thrombin. Coag. S. A. S. G. Fibrinogen. Thrombin. Coag. with Thrombin. S. A. S. G. Filjrinogen. XJncoag. S. A. S.G. Uncoag. • S. A. S. G. Thrombin. LUNO 2. Formation of Lymph.—Lymph is derived partly from the blood and partly from the tissues. The formation of lymph from the blood depends upon the permeability of the walls of the capillaries and the pressure of blood in the blood-vessels. Thus, although the pressure in the blood-vessels of the limbs is much higher than the pressure in the vessels of the liver, hardly any lymph is iisually produced in the former, while very large quantities are produced in the latter—apparently because of the small permeability of the limb capillaries and the great permeability of the hepatic capillaries. The permeability may be increased by anything which injures the capillary wall. Thus the injection of hot water or of proteoses at once leads to an increased flow of lymph. While the permeability of the vessel wall is the most im- portant factor controlling lymph formation, any increase of the intravascular pressure of a region increases the flow of lymph, and for this reason any obstruction to the free flow of blood from a part leads to increased lymph production from that area. That lymph is also formed from the tissues is indicated by the fact that the injection of substances of high osmotic equivalent into the blood—such as sugar or sodium sulphate— leads, by a process of osmosis, to a flow of fluid into the blood, so that it becomes diluted, and also to an increased formation of and flow of lymph, and this increase of water in both can be explained only by its withdrawal from the tissues. —leading off to every part of the body, and ending in innumerable fine irrigation channels —the capillaries {Cap.)—in the substance of the tissues. From these, a considerable pro- portion of the blood constituents is passed into the spaces between the cells as lymph. From these spaces the fluid is either passed back into the capillaries, or is conducted away in a series of lymph vessels, which carry it through lymph glands (Ly.), from which it gains cer- tain necessary constituents, and finally bring it back to the central pump. The fluid, which has not passed out of the capillaries into the tissues, has been deprived of many of its constituents, and this withdrawal of nutrient material by the tissues is made good by a certain quantity of the blood being sent through the walls of the stomach and intestine (Al.C.), in which the nutrient material of the food is taken up and added to the blood return- ing to the heart. At the same time, the waste CAP The Circulatory System I. Genei'al Arram/ement The arrangement by which the blood and lymph are distributed to the tissues may be compai'ed to a great irrigation system. It consists of a central force-pump — the systemic heart (Fig. 115, H.H.)—from which pass a series of conducting tubes—the arteries Fig. 115.—Scheme of the circulation. S.Il., Systemic heart sending l)Iood to the capil- laries in the tissues, Cap. The blond brought back by veins and the exuded lymph by lymphatics, /,;/., passing through glands ; bluod sent to the alimentary canal, Al.C, and from that to the liver, Liv.; blood also sent to the kidneys, Kid. ; the blood before again being sent to the body is passed through the lungs by the pulmonic heart, P. II. materials added to the blood by the tissues are partly got rid of by a certain quantity of the blood being sent through the liver and kidnej's {Liv. and Kid.). The blood is then poured back, not at once into the great pump which sends it through the body, but into a subsidiary pump—the pulmonic heart {P.H.)—by which it is pumped through the lungs, there to obtain a fresh supply of oxygen, and to get rid of the carbon dioxide excreted into it by the tissues. Finally the blood, with its fresh supply of oxygen from the lungs, and of nourishing substances from the alimentary canal, is jwured into the great systemic pump—the left side of the heart— again to be distributed to the tissues. Thus the circulation is arranged so that tlie blood, exhausted of its nourishing material by the tissues, is replenished in the body before being again supplied to the tissues. The sectional area of this irrigation system varies enormously. The aorta leaving the heart has a comparatively small channel. If all tlie arteries of the size of the radial were cut across