PUBERTY 346 instance of this is the bad effect on a girl's health which so frequently results from send- ing her abroad at 16 or 17 years of age. A visit to Germany especially very often upsets a girl's health to a very serious extent. The food is distasteful, the houses are hot and close, there is very little outdoor life, very few games, and she is home-sick and solitary. The nerves connected with the system then in process of development are often the first to break down as a result of poor nutrition and a generally depressed vitality. Mothers are apt to be unduly anxious about the first appearance of menstruation, and not nearly anxious enough to maintain vigour during the important years which immediately succeed it. Hygiene of Puberty.—No special rules are required at this age for either boys or girls. They both need a healthy, active life, with much open-air exercise, plenty of good food, and plenty of occupation. The discipline and brightness of a good school rule, much better for girls as well as boys than the in- dulgence and absence of systematic playground life which are involved in education at home. All good girls' schools of the present day make almost as much use of playground games as boys' schools do, and with similarly good results. Young people of that age are best with very little leisure, with their whole time so occupied with a disciplined routine of work and play that there is no opportunity for lovinging about and sentimentality, and with a large amount of social and amusing exercise. Girls who enjoy out-door games usually eat well, and if they do Nature will take care of the due development of their reproductive organs. The danger of too much exercise, especially when it is out of doors, is far smaller than the danger of too little, and the regulation of exercise may safely be left to the discretion of the schoolmistress if she is fit for her work. Parents are often puzzled as to how far it is well to explain the elementary facts of the physiology of reproduction to girls and boys at about the age of puberty. Much depends on the relations between the parent and child ; some parents are much more intimate with their children than others. A certain degree of reserve on such subjects ought certainly to be maintained ; but it is probably always best for fathers to speak to sons, and mothers to daughters, in a way which shall enable the child to understand the elementary facts of life, and to look upon them with reverence. The study of botany is perhaps the best way of introducing to children the idea of sexual differ ences, and from botany the step can be taken to the natural history of animals, and so to human physiology. It is certainly desirable for boys to be warned as to the great danger of loss of self-control, and of any premature and irregular exercise of the reproductive function. Girls, as a rule, need such warning far less than boys, and it must depend on the discretion and insight of their mothers to give it or to with- hold it. Pubic.—Relating to the pubes (region corresponding to the pubic bones); e.g. the pubic arch, the pubic bone (os pubis), the pubic spine, the pubic segment of the pelvic floor, etc. Pubiotomy or Pubeotomy or Pubotomy. See Hebotomy ; Labour, Obstetric Operations (Symphysiotomy).—John Aitken, of Edinburgh, writing in 1786 {Principles of Midwifery, 3rd edition, p. 83), proposed an operation closely resembling the modern heb- otomy or pubiotomy. " May not," he wrote, " Csesarean section and embryotomy be super- seded by a pelvitomia nova % viz. two incisions, one on each side, reaching to the ossa pubis, as near the crural vessels as safely may be, so that one may be distant from the other about four inches \ and two corresponding to and touching the joinings of the rami pubis and ischiorum. The bones are then divided by the flexible saw, without wounding the peritoneum, bladder,, urethra, or vagina. Thus the segment of the pelvis becomes movable, and yields to th& pressure of the child so as to allow delivery. If due attention be paid to the wound, may not the healing take place in such sort, that in future sufficient capacity of the pelvis may be preserved? I am just now employed in trying the eff"ect of this operation on brutes." Public Health. See Abattoirs; Air,. Examination of; Air-Borne Diseases, Anthrax;. Canal Boats ; Cattle ; Disinfection ; Epi- demiology ; Food ; Hospitals ; Infection ; Meteorology ; Midwives ; Milk ; Nursing ;. Pregnancy {Management); Quarantine Rabies ;: Sewage and Drainage ; Trades, Dangerous ;. Ventilation and Warming ; Vital Statistics ;. Water. PubO-.—In compound words pubo- (Lat. pubes, the hair which appears on the body at puberty) means relating to the pubic region or bone ; e.g. pubofemoral, pubo-vesical, etc. PuCCinia.—Mildew {Puccinia graminis),. is a fungus which may grow on flour and meal. Pudding's. See Invalid Feeding {Diet duriiig Convalescence, Puddings). Pudenda, Ulcerating: Granu- loma of the. See also Venereal Disease {Ulcerating Granuloma of the Pudenda).—The distribution of this disease is not yet fully known. It occurs in British Guiana, where it attacks tlie pudenda of the coloured population and half-breeds. Women are rather more frequently attacked than men. Dr. Daniels states that he has seen a similar disease in Fiji