457 RABIES close of last century, rabies was regarded as a mysterious neurosis, the most astounding hypo- theses being formulated as to its nature; only one true fact was admitted, namely, the trans- mission of rabies to man by the bite of an animal. In the last century the experiments of Majendie, Breschet, Renault, Hertwig, Benley, etc., clearly demonstrate the condition and development of this scourge. Our present more accurate knowledge of the pathology of this disease, and the solutions of the problems of prophylaxis and vaccination, as already prac- tised by Galtier on animals, is mainly due to the exertions of Pasteur and his pupils, who have been equally successful in the cure of man. Etiology.—Rabies is found in every quarter of the globe, in both hot and cold regions. In Europe the disease is most prevalent in France, Belgium, and Russia. In France, during the year 1892, there were no fewer than 2169 rabic dogs. In the depart- ment of the Seine the malady is practically endemic. In Belgium during the same year there were 83 cases of rabies in dogs; in Germany the cases were much fewer, only 387 being reported in 1892; while England enjoys a still greater immunity, statistics proving 79 cases in 1891, and only 38 in 1892. From year to year, of course, the number of cases varies— an increase of rabies invariably following any relaxing of the vigilance of the police in en- forcing sanitary regulations. The influence of the seasons is not nearly so important as was formerly believed to be the case. Rabies sometimes manifests itself in an epi- zootic form; such was the case at Peron in 1803, where the ravages caused by rabies are to this day mentioned with horror. Some countries, for example Australia, enjoy almost complete immunity from rabies,—thanks, no doubt, to tlie vigilant inspection of vessels on arrival at ports. Other islands hitherto immune have suffered from the pest, owing to the admission of ownerless dogs; for example, Mauritius in 1813, Malta in 1847, and Madeira in 1892. Rabies in man being always contracted from animals, the etiology of the condition in animals must therefore first be considered. All mammalia are liable to rabies, the different species differing in regard to degree, frequency, and severity. Domestic animals, on account of the life they lead, are most sus- ceptible ; rabies appears most frequently in dogs, cats more rarely suffer. Among the wild carnivora the wolf is frequently attacked, also the fox, hyena, and jackal. Oxen are the most susceptible of the herbivora; next in order come sheep, goats, and horses. Rabies in pigs is not so common. It is doubtful whether birds can be attacked by rabies. In all the different animal species males suffer from rabies more frequently than females. Le Blance makes the proportion 14 to 1 in the canine races. It is now comparatively easy to estimate the extent of rabies in man, thanks to the accurate statistics of the Pasteur Institute. In France, from 1800 to 1900 individuals are yearly bitten by animals and undei'go the Pasteur treatment. One thousand, at least, have been bitten by certified rabic dogs. The greater number of the cases of bites from rabic dogs occur in the department of the Seine, where there are at least 47 individuals bitten to each 100,000 of the population. Men, as a rule, are more frequently and severely bitten than women ; children do not suffer so often as adults. These facts are due probably to the different modes of life, cloth- ing, etc. The bites of rabic animals only communicate rabies in about a third of the cases in animals, and the same may probably hold good as re- gards man. As it is impossible to reckon all bites, this is difficult to state quite accurately; the proportion, roughly speaking, may be taken as 16 to 19 cases of rabies against 100 bites. All bites are not equally venomous. Wolf bites more frequently communicate rabies than dog bites, not because the poison is more viru- lent in the wolf, but because he bites deeper and more than once. The bites of herbivorous animals are not deep—they tear rather than bite—and are therefore less serious. Bites on exposed flesh are naturally most serious. If the clothes intervene the saliva may be partially wiped off the teeth in passing through to the flesh. Bites on the face are the most fatal, the mortality is 88 per 100 ; on the hands, 67 per 100; and on the lower limbs, 21 per 100. The vehicle for the virus is the animal's saliva, and the teeth carry it into the flesh. The saliva merely spread on the surface of the skin does not cause rabies unless there is a scratch or wound. The theories of contagion in the air, or by the perspiration, or by the spermatic fluid, are not credited now; even infection by the blood of rabic animals is doubted, as is also infection through administration of milk or meat. Symptoms.—I. Period of Incitbation.—The period of incubation, running from the moment of the bite till the appearance of the known symptoms of rabies, is very variable. The ancients considered incubation to last about forty days. Recent statistics of Brouai'del, Proust, Bauer, and Meintrier allow approxi- mately two months after inoculation, some- times three months, and in very rare cases six months. The extreme limit is difficult to fix. Bouley has seen cases of incubation lasting only seven days. De Beurmenn Valentin had cases run-