345 PUBERTY €hild of nine months old, another of seven months, who menstruated regularly. Both were abnormally large and intelligent even from birth. A post-mortem on one case showed ■ovaries which had ovulated regularly. One child, whose case is given by Dr. Morse, became pregnant in her eighth year, another at ten, and a third at eight and a quarter. In all these cases there was nothing, strictly speaking, ab- normal except the precocity. They were ano- malies of development. Where precocious men- struation is present without any general early maturity, the cause of the condition is even more obscure. Cases are not uncommon in which, from 'Change of climate, nervous shock, a severe ill- ness at or about the time when puberty should have occurred, or from other causes, the normal rate of development has been checked, and menstruation is considerably delayed. As a rule, in these cases, if there is good evidence of a sound general development, e.g. in breasts, pubes, etc., there is reason to expect menstrua- tion to appear. If at 20 or more than 20 the breasts, etc., are infantile, it is probable that the ovaries are absent or imperfect. Where the ovaries are present, though functionless, men- struation may occur for the first time even at a very late age. Dr. Wolfe reports a case in which the patient menstruated for the first time &t 43. She had been treated for some months when 19 years of age for amenorrhoea. Some years afterwards she married a widower with a family, never menstruated till eleven years later, when she was nearly 4-3. A severe fright from an idiot girl was followed at once by menstrua- tion. This recurred irregularly for eighteen months, when she became pregnant. In this ■case the fault must have been nervous. From :some obscure cause the ovarian nerves were inhibited, possibly in a way analogous to the inhibition of common sensation, or of the special senses, in hysterical or in hypnotic conditions. Disturbances of Health at Puberty.—In the great majority of cases the commencement ■of the change from childhood to adolescence involves no disturbance of health. Where the nervous system is sound, the nutrition good, and the habits of life wholesome, health may be expected at this as at other ages. This particular step towards maturity ought not to involve any more risk than the many previous steps from infancy upwards have done. Experi- ence confirms this view. Every mother knows that a sound child of from 13 to 16 is a very much more robust creature than he or •she was ten years earlier. He is much less often ailing, his life is more secure. She takes it for granted that the changes which puberty indicates will be accomplished without nervous or other disturbances, and in the case of healthy children her hope is almost always justified by the result. The case is, however, quite otherwise when the child inherits a bad nervous system, or when its nutritional powers are unequal to any extra stress being put upon them. Related to the fundamental changes accomplished at puberty, there is the correlative though not usually quite contemporary change of very rapid growth, and of an equally rapid development of the higher mental powers. Nervous stability is taxed in several ways at once. These conditions, however, belong more properly to adolescence than to the time of puberty itself. In both boys and girls "the time of greatest rapidity of growth is later than puberty, and it is probable that very rapid growth has more to do with the nervous instability of adolescence than anything else. Insanity is indeed rare at puberty, and markedly less rare six or seven years later. When present it is always the result of a strongly marked inherited tendency. Dr. Clouston had only 2 cases of insanity at puberty in the Edinburgh Asylum out of a total of 1800 cases, and only 22 at the ages of 16 and 17. He believes insanity at puberty to be always hereditary, acute, remittent, not dangerous to life, and of good prognosis. Of the less serious neuroses, epilepsy, chorea, and migraine are the most important, and they are also among the disturbances which most frequently seem to begin at or near puberty. Especially is this true of migraine and epilepsy. A large proportion of well-marked cases of migraine date from the age at which puberty usually appears. In women it may possibly be connected with the heightened arterial tension before menstruation, and with disturb- ance of the vaso-motor system as a direct result of the loss of blood. It is very unusual to hear of a true migraine beginning in adult life. In previously iiealthy girls the occurrence of menstruation, when the loss is normal in amount and regular in its return, seems to pr-oduce no evil effects. If, however, the loss is excessive, or very scanty, or quite irregular, the general health is usually affected disadvantageously, coincidentally, perhaps, rather than conse- quently. The appetite often fails, and then, at a time of very rapid growth, the nutritional power is diminished and antemia results. The power of assimilating a liberal allowance of nutritious food is never more valuable than in a girl of 15 or 16, when, along with a marvellous rate of growth, the organs of reproduction are being gradually matured and perfected, and their nervous mechanism elaborated and, as it were, trained into harmonious working. For all this a high degree af nutrition is wanted. The change started in girls at puberty, without suffering and without any disturbance of health, is frequently checked a few years later by conditions which unfavourably affect the nervous system or the nutrition. A familiar