PROCT- OR PROCTO- 314 PrOCt- or PrOCtO-.—In compound words proct- (Gr. TrpwKros, the anus) means relating to the anus ; e.g. jyroctatresia (imperfora- tion of the anus), proctocele (prolapse of the rectum), proctoccypexy (fixing the rectum to the coccyx), proctorrhcea (discharge of mucus from the anus), and proctosjMsmus (rectal tenesmus). PrOCtcllg'ia,.—Pain, usually neuralgic in character, iu the anus or rectum ; proctodynia. Proctectomy.—Excision of the anus or rectum. Proctitis. See Rectum, Diseases of (Proctitis). Proctodaeum.—The posterior part of the cloacal fossa of the embryo. See Embry- ology. Proctodynia.—Pain about the anus or rectum; proctalgia. ProctoplclSty. — Plastic or reparative surgery of the anus and rectum. Proctoptosis.—Prolapse of the rectum. See Rectum, Diseases of (Procidentia). Proctorrhaphy.—Fixation of the rectum or anus with sutures. Proctoscope.—A rectal speculum. ProctOSigrmoidectomy. — Excision of the rectum and sigmoid flexure. Proctotomy,—Incision into the rectum, with or without division of the sphincters (ex- ternal and internal proctotomy). Procurator-Fiscal. See Medicine, Forensic (Certification, Scotland). Prodromata.—The early or precursory phenomena or signs of a disease or other morbid state (Gr. TrpoSpo/j.yj, a running forward or sally). Product.—In Obstetrics the term product is sometimes given to the fostus, membranes, placenta, and liquor anmii. Proembryon.—The first indications of an embryo which exist at the end of the first week of antenatal life in utero; the extra- embryonic parts, such as the amnion and the umbilical vesicle, are quite recognisable, but the future embryo is little more than a mass of epiblast cells with, as yet, no primitive streak. (See Ballantyne's Antenatal Pathology, vol. ii. p. 24.) Proencephaius.—A teratological type in which there is anterior meroacrania, i.e. the frontal bones are defective and the cranial contents protrude in the anterior part of the vault. Professional Spasms. See Neu- roses, Occupation. Profeta'S Law.—The law that healthy children born of syphilitic parents are not susceptible to infection with syphilis, and that they can therefore be safely nursed by the mother or by a syphilitic wet-nurse. See Syph- ilis (In Children, Hereditary). Profundus or Profunda.—Deep seated; e.g. the arteria prof unda femoris, and the superior profunda branch of the brachial artery. Prog^eria.—Premature old age in associ- ation with infantilism (Gr. irpo, and yipmv, an old man); geromorphism. Prog'lottiS. See Parasites (Cestod.es, Tcenia Soliiim). Prognathism.—Marked projection of the jaws, with small size of the forehead. See Anthropology. PrOg'nOSiS.—The forecast of the probable course of a disease, and the estimation of its fatal or favourable termination. Progrressive Muscular At- rophy. See Paralysis (With Atrophy of Muscles). Progrressive Pernicious Anae- mia. See Anaemia, Pernicious. Projection. See Ocular Muscles, Affections of (Paralysis, Faulty Projection). Projection Areas. See Physiology, Neuro-Muscular Mechanism (Cerebrum, Flech- sig's Projection Areas). Prolabium.—The central prominence of the lip, e.g. in double hare-lip. See Palate (Hare-Lip, Varieties). Prolapse and Prolapsus.—Down- ward displacement of an organ or structure, e.g. the uterus, the umbilical cord or funis, or the iris. See Brain, Surgery of (Hernia Cerebri); Gastro-Intestinal Disorders of Infancy (Pro- lapsus Recti); Labour, Diagnosis and Mechan- ism (Podulic Lies, Prolapse of Limbs); Labour,, Accidental Complications (Prolap)se of the Cord, of Arm, of Foot); Labour, Obstetric Operations (Fo7-ceps, Indications, Prolapsus Funis); Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor (Descent of tlie Pelvic Floor, Sacro-Pubic Hernia); Pelvis, Per- ineum (Vaginal Enterocele); Pregnancy, Affec- tions of Generative Organs (Prolapse of Gravid Uterus); Rectum, Diseases of the (Procidentia Recti). Proliferous-—Multiplying or reproduc- ing ; e.g. a iwoliferous cyst (one in which fresh growths are being produced by the lining mem-