PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 21 while this is the case the strength of stimulus necessary to call forth a contraction varies at different periods. To produce another contrac- tion while the muscle is already in the period of contraction is difficult, but as it relaxes it reacts more and more readily to stimuli. In cardiac muscle, perhaps more than in any other, the staircase increase in the extent of contrac- tion with a series of stimuli is manifested. In cardiac muscle the [p-eater the resistaiice to contraction the stronger the force of contraction. Hence when extra blood is poured into the heart from the veins, or when the outflow from the ventricles into the arteries is impeded, the increased strain put upon the heart muscle is met by increased contraction, and the additional work thrown upon the organ is effectually per- formed. Not only is this the case when tem- porary disturbances of the circulation occur, but when these disturbances are permanent, the heart adapts itself to them, and, if it has continuously to perform extra work, its mus- cular wall hypertrophies, just as the skeletal muscles grow by continual use. Of course, to allow such compensation to be established, the blood supply to the heart muscle must be sufficient, and hence, when the coronary arteries are diseased, heart failure rapidly ensues. If the coronary arteries are clamped and then relaxed, a peculiar fibrillar contraction of the heart muscle occurs. The maintenance of this rhythmic contraction and relaxation seems to depend greatly upon the presence of certain kations in the circulating blood. A due admixture of salts of sodium, potassium, and calcium is essential. For the frog's heart Ringer finds that the proportions which give the best results are— NaCl . . . 0-70 per cent. KCl ... 0-03 „ CaCl . . . 0-025 „ Since an excess of calcium salts leads to tonic contraction, and since an excess of sodium or of potassium leads to relaxation, it has been con- cluded that these two phases are determined by the presence of these ions. How IS THE Rhythmic Contraction op the Heart maintained 1—The mechanism is in the heart itself,iov the excised heart continues to beat. In considering what this mechanism is, it must be borne in mind that two distinct questions have to be investigated. \st. How does the contraction, once started, pass in regular sequence from one part of the heart to the other 1 •2nd. What starts each rhythmic contraction 1 \st. Propagation of the Wave of Contraction. —In the heart of many of the lower animals, and in the embryo of mammals, no nervous structures are to be found, and the rhythmic contraction is manifestly simply a function of the muscular fibres. Even in the heart of animals with well-marked nerve cells in the walls of the heart, and with nerve fibres coursing among the muscular fibres, the conduction of the contraction is purely a function of the muscles. For if the heart of a frog be cut across and across, so that all nerve fibres are severed, the contraction passes along it. The rate at which the contraction travels is slow, only about 10 to 15 centimetres per second. Since in the mammalian heart muscular con- tinuity between auricles and ventricles through the band of His is of small extent, the wave of contraction is delayed at this point, and in the dying heart, and in various pathological condi- tions, the contraction frequently fails altogether to pass this block, and thus the ventricles either stop beating before the auricles, or respond to every second or third auricular contraction. 2nd. Starting Mechanism of Contraction. — In the early foetal heart no nerve structures have been found, yet it beats regularly and rhythmi- cally. In the apex of the ventricle of the frog there are no nerve structures, yet, if the apex be cut off and repeatedly stimulated at regular intervals with galvanic making and breaking stimuli, it will, after a time, begin to contract spontaneously, regularly and rhythmically. Not only so, but if the apex be tied on to a tube, and a stream of blood passed through it, it will again start contracting regularly and rhythmically. These experiments clearly show that regular rhythmic contraction is a function of cardiac muscle. In the cardiac cycle in the frog each contrac- tion starts in the sinus. What part does the sinus take in initiating contraction 1 If a ligature be tightly applied between the sinus and auricles in the frog {Stannius' Experi- ment), the sinus continues to beat, and the auricles and ventricle usualli/ stop beating for a longer or shorter period. But ultimately they begin to beat again. Hence it would seem that it is not any special mechanism in the sinus which is essential in starting cardiac contrac- tion. A ligature subsequently applied between auricles and ventricle sometimes starts the ven- tricle, sometimes the auricles, sometimes neither. Hence we see that any part of the heart has the power of originating rhythmical contractions, although usually the sinus initiates it. The sinus more than any other part of the heart has the property of rhythmic contraction. We have no evidence that the nerve cells in the sinus or elsewhere have anything to do with this; and, so far as we at present know, the initiation as well as the propagation of the cardiac contraction is a function of the muscular fibres. ^rd. Intra-cardiac Nervous Mechanism. — In the frog's heart nervous structures exist, and are distributed as follows (Fig. 127):— \st. In the wall of the sinus venosus there