219 POST-MORTEM METHODS at a temperature of 80° C. for half an hour. Then reinoculate tubes from each and incubate as before. The exposure to a temperatm'e of 80° C. should kill all non-sporing bacteria present. The resultant cultures may contain any sporing, anaerobic organisms, such as tetanus or malignant oedema, which are often found together. The reader must be warned, however, that these are very difficult to separate. Blood Serum.—This is especially suitable for the diagnosis of diphtheria. With the sterilised loop remove a little of the membrane from the throat in a suspected case, inoculate successively three serum tubes, and examine films after incubation for twelve to twenty hours. The diphtheria bacilli develop quickly on this medium, and if present, are readily recognised on staining with methylene blue or thionin blue. They also stain by Gram's method. A dependable diagnosis cannot be made by simply examining a film made direct from the throat. PoS'tn£lsa.l.—Situated behind the nose, e.g. postnasal catarrh, postnasal adenoids, etc. Postna.ta,l.—Occurring after birth, in opposition to ante7iatal (occurring before birth). Postpartum. — Following labour, e.g. pjostpartum haemorrhage. See Labour, Post- partum HEMORRHAGE. POStpharyngreal. — Situated behind the pharynx, e.g. postpharyngeal abscess. See Pharynx, Retropharyngeal Abscess. Postscarlatinal. — Following scarlet fever, e.g. postscarlatinal nej^hritis. See Scarlet Fever {Complicatioiis). Posture. See Labour, Management of {Posture in Second Stage); Labour, Pre- cipitate and Prolonged {Walcher's Position in Contracted Pelvis); Position. Post uterine.—Situated behind the uterus, e.g. postuterine peritonitis, postuterine cellulitis, etc. POStzygapophysiS.—The inferior or posterior articular process of a vertebra. Potain's Aspirator. See Aspirator, Uses of {Apparatus). Potain's Syndrome.—The associa- tion of certain symptoms in cases of dilatation of the stomach, viz. dyspepsia, dilatation of the right ventricle of the heart, and accentuation of the pulmonary sound. Pot-au-feu. — A variety of soup, re- sembling Scotch broth. See Invalid Feeding {Sowp-making). Potash or Potassium. See also Angina Pectoris {Treatment); Aorta, Aneur- ysm of {Treatment) ; Dermatitis Traumatica et Venenata {Potassium Eruptions) ; Diet {Mineral Constituents of Food); H^emoglobin- URiA {Toxic); Kidney, Surgical {Actinomycosis, Treatment); CEsophagus {Inflammation, Ca^hses); Pharmacology ; Syphilis ; Toxicology ; etc.— The metal itself is not used in medicine, but is represented by a large number of salts. 1. PoTASSii Carbonas.—A white, deliquescent powder, known as salt of tartar, very soluble in water. Dose—5-20 grs. As it is very disagree- able to take, and strongly irritant, it is never used in medicine except for the purpose of preparing other salts. From it is prepared Liquor Potassa;, a 5"85 per cent solution of potassium hydroxide (KHO) in water. Dose— 10-30 m. freely diluted. Potassce Caustica (potassium hydroxide) is made by evaporating liquor potassse and casting the residue in moulds. Caustic potash has been used locally as a caustic to destroy warts, lupus, etc., but as it diffuses rapidly and it is difficult to limit its action it is not very suitable for such purposes. The scraping of an in-growing toe-nail is facilitated by painting on a 40 per cent solution of caustic potash. In dilute solutions it acts as a sedative to the skin and is employed to relieve itching. Liquor potasste is rather irritating for internal use, but in small doses it has been recommended as a gastric sedative in dyspepsia, and for its alkaline effect on an abnormally acid urine. 2. PoTASSii Bicarbonas. — Large, opaque, colourless crystals, soluble 1 in 4 of water, made by passing carbonic anhydride through a solution of potassium carbonate. Dose—5-30 grs. It is sometimes used in the treatment of stomach conditions with hyperacidity, but sodium bicarbonate is generally preferable. As a diuretic and for the purpose of diminishing the acidity of the urine its place has been largely taken by the acetate and the citrate of potash. 3. PoTASSii CiTRAS.—A whitc, granular, deli- quescent powder, very soluble in water, made by acting on potassium carbonate with citric acid. Dose—10-40 grs. It is the most agree- able to take of all the salts of potash. It inter- feres little with digestion, and is used principally for its remote effects as a diaphoretic, diuretic, and febrifuge. It is powerfully antiscorbutic, but is not so valuable for this purpose as lemon juice. It is said to be of value in the uric acid diathesis. It increases the bronchial secretion and diminishes its viscidity, and is of service as a mild saline expectorant. It gives good results as a diuretic in chronic Bright's disease, and is also indicated as a diuretic in feverish condi- tions. It is a very suitable salt to use for dimin- ishing the acidity of the urine, as for the pre- vention of the formation of uric acid calculi, and in the treatment of eneuresis when this is due to