464 RACEMOSE gland {see Physiology, Tissues, Secreting Epi- thelium), racemose aneurysm (aneurysm by anastomosis). Ra,Chi-.—In compound words rachi- (Gr. pa.xi<;, the backbone) means relating to the spine ; e.g. rachiagra (gouty pain in the back), rachialgia (neuralgic pain in the back), rachio- campsis (spinal curvature), rachiopAegia (spinal paralysis), and rachiasmus (spasm of the pos- terior cervical muscles). Ra.Chiceie.—The protrusion of the con- tents of the spinal canal through an opening in the walls of the canal. See Spina Bifida. Rachicocainisation.—The produc- tion of anaesthesia by lumbar pvincture, the ansesthetic (cocaine) being injected into the subarachnoid space. See Spine, Surgical Af- fections OF {Spinal Cocainisation). Rachiotomy.—The division of the spine of the foetus to permit of its extraction in difficult labours, e.g. in impacted shoulder cases. Rachischisis or Rhachischisis. —Spina bifida (q.v.); the whole spine may be open (holo7-hachischisis) or only a part of it, such as in the cervical or lumbar regions (nieroj'hachischisis). Rachitis. See Rickets; Deformities {Ge7iu Valgum, etc.) ; Scurvy, Infantile ; etc. Rachi tome.—An instrument for divid- ing or opening into the spine in rachiotomy. Radesygfe. See Venereal Disease (Al- lied Diseases). Radial.—in Anatomy radial means relat- ing to the radius (bone of the forearm) or to that aspect of the ai'm where the radius is situated, e.g. radial artery, nerve, pulse, or vein. Radiator. See Ventilation and Warm- ing [Heating by Steam, etc.). Radical or Radicle.—In Chemistry a radical {radicle, since 1862) is "an element or atom {simple radical) or a group of these {com- pound radical), forming the base of a compound and remaining unaltered during the ordinary chemical reactions to which this is liable" (Murray's New English Dictionary); in Surgery the term means thorough, touching what is essential, or going to the root of anything, e.g. a radical operation, a radical cure, etc. Radio-.—In compound words radio- means relating to the radius (bone of the arm), or to radium (the metal), or to radiant energy; e.g. radio-carpal (relating to the radius and to the carpus), radiodermatitis (inflammation of the skin due to the action of the Rontgen rays), and radiotherapy (treatment of disease by radiant energy). Radiography. — Photography, or the impression of objects on sensitised plates by the Rontgen rays, or skiagraphy, the result being a radiogram or skiagram. See X-Rays. See also Eyeball, Injuries of {Foreign Bodies, Removal); Kidney, Surgical Affections op {Stone, Diag- nosis of Renal Calculi); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Diagnosis, Rimtgen-ray Illumination); Medi- astinum {Growths, Diagnosis); Oesophagus, In- juries AND Diseases {Foreign Bodies, Examina- tion by Radiography). Radioscopy.—The examination of parts of the body or objects by means of the Rontgen rays. See X-Rays. Radium.—Radium, the remarkable pro- perties of which have excited so much interest throughout the scientific world, was discovered by M. and Mme. Curie in 1898. The discovery was led up to by a number of different investiga- tions extending back to the middle of the nine- teenth century, when Geissler showed that an electric discharge through a vacuum tube caused the tube to glow. Crookes, in 1879, working with tubes of much higher vacuum (one- millionth of an atmosphere), discovered that luminosity was produced at the negative end of the tube ; and in 1895 Rontgen, finding that the rays from a Crookes' tube caused barium cyanide to fluoresce, was led to further experiment which culminated in the discovery of Rontgen rays. The nature of the connection between Crookes' cathodal rays and Rontgen rays was settled by J. J. Thomson, who proved that the former con- sisted of a stream of negatively charged material particles, the impact of which against the glass gave rise to a series of disconnected pulses with- out periodicity—the X-rays. The practical ap- plications of Rontgen's discovery were so evident as at once to stimulate fresh research, and in 1896 Becquerel found that certain uranium compounds which have the property of fluores- cence affected a photographic plate in the dark, even if they had ceased to fluoresce through not having been exposed to sunlight for some days. Following up this clue, Mme. Curie found that pitchblende, whence uranium is ob- tained, was even more radio-active than the metal itself. After a laborious research she showed that this radio-activity was due to two new elements—polonium, which about equals uranium, and radium, which in its pure state is about two million times as active. Radium belongs to the alkaline group of metals, and is intermediate between barium and thorium; it has not been isolated in the pure state, but if it was it would probably behave like sodium and oxidise rapidly. The bromide and chloride of radium are the salts employed. These are extracted fi-om pitch- blende refuse (uraniuite) from which the uranium has been removed. The final separ-