PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 26 "With no sudden intermittent inflow, and with no resistance to outflow, the development of a pulse is impossible. In certain abnormal conditions, where, from the extreme dilatation of the arterioles, the in- flow into the veins is very free, and where the outflow from the part of the body is not so free, a local venous pulse may develop. Characters of the Pulse Wave.—If a finger be placed on the carotid artery and another upon the radial artery it will be felt that the artery near the heart expands (pulses) before that further from the heart. The pulse develops first in the arteries near the heart and passes outwards towards the periphery. The reason for this is obvious. The arteries are always overfilled with blood. The ventricle drives its contents into this over- filled aorta, and to accommodate this the aortic wall expands. But since the aorta communicates with the other arteries this increased pressure passes outwards along them, expanding their wall as it goes. The pulse wave may thus be compared to a wave at sea, which is also a wave of increased pressiire, the only diff'erence being that, while the waves at sea travel freely over the surface, the pulse wave is confined in the column of blood, and manifests itself by expanding the walls of the arteries. It greatly simplifies the study of the pulse to regard it in this light, and to study it just as we should study a wave at sea. 1. Velocity.—To determine how fast a wave is travelling we might select two points at a known distance from one another, and with a watch note how long the wave takes to pass from one to the other. So with the pulse wave, two points on an artery at a known distance from one another may be taken and the time which the wave takes to pass between them may be measured. It is thus found that the pulse wave travels at about 9 or 10 metres per second—about thirty times as fast as the blood flows in the arteries. 2. Length of the Wave.—To determine this in a wave at sea is easy if we know its velocity and know how long it takes to pass any one point. Suppose it is travelling at 50 feet per second, and that it takes one second to pass a particular point, obviously it is .50 feet in length. The same method may be applied to the pulse wave. We know its velocity, and by placing the finger on an artery we may determine that one wave follows another in rapid succession, so that there is no pause between them. Each wave corresponds to a ventricular systole, and therefore each wave must last, at any point, j ust the time between two ventricular systoles— jiTst the time of a cardiac cycle. There are about 70 cycles per minute—i.e. per 60 seconds ; hence each must last 0'88 second. The pulse wave takes 0"88 second to pass any place, and it travels at 10 metres per second; its length then is 8-8 metres, or about yive times the length of the body. It is then an enormously long wave, and it has disappeared at the periphery long before it has finished leaving the aorta. 3. The Height of the Wave.—The height of the pulse wave, as of a wave at sea, depends primarily on the pressure causing it, but the character of the arterial wall modifies it very largely. Thus the true height of the pulse wave in the great arteries near the heart is masked by the thickness of the arterial wall. Speaking generally, however, we may say that the pulse wave is highest near the heart, and becomes lower and lower as it passes out to the periphery, where it finally disappears altogether (Fig. 130). This disappearance is due to its force becoming expended in expanding the arterial wall. 4. The Form of the Wave.—Waves at sea vary greatly in form, and the form of the wave might be graphically recorded on some moving surface such as the side of a ship by some floating body. If the ship were stationary a simple vertical line would be produced, but if she were moving a curve would be recorded, more or less abrupt according to her speed. From this curve the shape of the wave might be deduced, if the speed of the vessel is known. The same method may be applied to the arterial pulse. By recording the changes pro- duced by the pulse wave as it passes any point in an artery the shape of the wave may be deduced. This may be done by any of the various forms of sphygmograph. Such a tracing is not a true picture of the wave, but simply of the effect of the wave on one point of the arterial wall. Its apparent length depends upon the rate at which the re- cording surface is travelling, and not on the length of the wave. Its height depends in part upon the length of the recording lever, in part upon the resistance off'ered by the instrument, in part upon the degree of pressure with which the instrument is applied to the artery, and in part on the thickness of the arterial wall. Such a trace shows (B^ig. 131) — \st. That the pulse waves generally follow one another without any interval. 2?irf. That the rise of the wave is much more abrupt than the fall. 3rd That upon the descent of the primary wave there are one or more secondary waves. One of these is constant and is very often well marked. It forms a second crest, and is hence called the dicrotic wave. Between the chief crest and this secondary crest, a smaller crest is often manifest (Fig. 131, 3). From its position, it is called the pre- dicrotic wave. Sometimes other crests appear.