101 PIGMENTS OF THE BODY AND EXCRETA of such pigments have been carried out, but the results which have been obtained differ somewhat widely, even with materials derived from the same source. The differences observed are specially marked as regards the presence or absence of iron and the proportion of combined sulphur. They are, doubtless, in part due to the difficulty of isolating substances of this description unaltered, but yet in a condition of purity, and in part, perhaps, to the presence of more than one pigment of the group in the same situation. Some observers regard the melanins as derivatives of hsemoglobin, basing their opinion in part upon the presence of iron; but others, including Nencki, take a different view of their origin, and Krukenberg looks upon them as more nearly related to the lipochromes than to haemoglobin. In the human body melanins play important parts in the pigmentation of the hair and eyes, as well as of the skin of the dark races, and even in the white races in the coloration of moles. In cases of generalised melanotic tumours large quantities of a pigment or pigments of this class are formed, and may be excreted in part in the urine. The dark pigment of hair has been investi- gated by Sieber, who found it to be free from iron, but to contain sulphur. Abel and Davis also failed to find iron in this pigment as well as in that of the skin of negroes. The black pigment of the retina known as fuscin has been found by Kiihne and Mays to contain iron, whereas Scherer and Sieber found neither iron nor sulphur in the very similar if not identical colouring matter of the choroid coat of the eye. The melanins of melanotic tumours have been repeatedly investigated. Heintz found no iron in them; Dressier found no sulphur, but a small quantity of iron was detected in the ash. The pigment isolated by Berdez and Nencki, to which they assigned the name of phymatorhusin, was insoluble in water, alcohol, and ether, but readily soluble in alkalies, from which it could be reprecipitated by acids. No iron was present in it, but it contained sulphur in considerable amounts. From melanotic growths in the horse they isolated a second pigment to which they gave the name of hippomelanin. Morner, on the other hand, obtained from human tumours, and from the urine of the patient, two pigments, one soluble and the other insoluble in acetic acid. Both contained iron as well as sulphur. He ascribes the absence of iron from the products isolated by previous observers to the employment of hydro- chloric acid in their preparation. The sarco- melanin isolated by Schmiedeberg also contained iron, and similar results have been obtained by Brandl and L. Pfeiffer. The dark pigment present in the urine in such cases is in part or whole passed as a chromogen, melanogen, and darkening may only take place after exposure to the air. Sometimes, however, the urine is of a very dark colour when passed. Occasionally, as in a case recorded by Senator, the pigment is present in the blood and ascitic fluid as well as in the urine. Other Pigments.—By no means all the pig- ments of the human body can be placed in one or other of the above groups. For example, the chemical relationships of the visual purple, the unstable pigment of the retinal rods, are unknown. Our knowledge of this substance is largely due to the researches of Kiihne. It is so readily decolorised by light that its separation has to be carried out by the light of the sodium flame. The best solvent is a dilute solution of bile salts, and it can be reprecipitated by removing the bile salts from the liquid by dialysis. It is not only decolorised by light, but also by heating its solutions, by alkalies other than ammonia, by acids, and even by alcohol, ether, and chloroform. The reddish purple solution of the pigment shows no definite absorption bands. Another pigment which cannot as yet be assigned to any definite class is uroerythrin, the urinary colouring matter which is respon- sible for the reddy orange tint of febrile urines and that of sufferers from hepatic diseases, and which colours uratic sediments pink. It is an extremely unstable substance, its solutions are rapidly decolorised by light, and it is destroyed by alkalies with the formation of a green pro- duct. Its spectrum consists of two feeble bands in the green and blue united by a dark shading. The indigo pigments are derived indirectly from indol, which is formed in the intestine by the bacterial decomposition of proteids. From the intestine it is absorbed and excreted by the kidneys in the form of indoxyl-sulphuric and indoxyl-glycuronic acids. Indigo blue is some- times spontaneously deposited from the urine, and in a very few instances renal calculi com- posed of indigo have been met with. Indoxyl- sulphuric acid is often present in the urine in considerable amount, as, for example, in cases of intestinal obstruction, and under such cir- cumstances the urine, when boiled with hydro- chloric acid and a trace of bleaching powder, yields an abundance of indigo blue and red. Urorosein is a pink pigment which is also obtained by the action of hydrochloric acid upon the urine, from which its colourless chromogen has been isolated in crystalline form. It also is very probably of intestinal origin. The brown oxidation products of the di- oxybenzenes are also occasionally met with in urine, as in cases of carboluria, and in the rare condition known as alkaptonuria. Lastly, bacterial pigments must be mentioned, such as pyocyanin, which is the product of the