37 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES the arterioles of the brain, and the cerebral pressure simply follows the changes in the general arterial pressure. The splanchnic area is the great regulator of the supply of blood to the brain. Since the cerebral arteries ai'e supported and prevented from distending by the solid wall of the skull, the arterial pulse tends to be propagated into the veins. In these veins the respiratory pulse also is very well marked. 2. Circulation in the Ltmgs. — Vaso-motor nerves seem to be absent, and hence drugs like Fig. 141.—Scheme of the circulation, modified from Hill, to illustrate the influence of the various extra-cardiac factors which maintain the flow of blood. adrenalin fail to cause a constriction of the arterioles. The amount of blood in the lungs is regulated by the blood pressure in the systemic vessels. 3. Circulation in the Heart Wall.—A peri- pheral vaso-motor mechanism is not present in the arterioles of the coronary vessels {see also p. 18). 4. Circulatio7i in the Spleen. — Here the blood has to flow through a labyrinth of spaces in the spleen pulp, and it is driven on by the alternate contraction and relaxation of the non- striped muscles in the capsule and trabeculse {see p. 9). Extra-cardiac factors maintaining Circulation In considering the flow of blood through the vessels due to the distribution of pressure in arteries and veins, it must be remembered that the central pump or heart is not the only factor maintaining it (Fig. 141). The thorax in the movements of respiration is a suction pump of considerable power, which draws blood into the heart during inspiration. While the auricles may be regarded as the cis- terns of the heart, the abdominal blood-vessels are the great blood reservoir, and the diaphragm contracting in inspiration presses the blood from this reservoir up into the thorax and heart. When, in intermittent muscular exer- cise, the abdominal muscles are tightened and the respiratory movements of the thorax are increased in the panting which accompanies it, the blood is partly pressed and partly sucked from the abdomen into the heart, and so forced on into the arteries. Even expiration helps in this, for the blood which has filled the vessels of the lungs in inspiration is driven on into the left side of the heart in expiration. The blood is thus forced on into the arteries, and so to the muscles, and they, by their alternate contraction and relaxation, further help to drive it on to the veins, where the valves prevent any back flow during relaxation and thus accelerate the circulation. The high arterial tension thus produced tends to drive the blood through the cranial vessels. The benefit of intermittent mus- cular exercise on the circulation is thus manifest. When, on the other hand, some sustained muscular strain has to be undergone, the thorax is fixed, and hence (Is*) the pressure on the heart and thorax organs is raised, and the increased pressure in the thorax helps to sup- port the heart and to prevent over-distension. The abdominal vessels are also pressed upon, and the sustained contraction of the limb muscles tends to prevent the blood flowing through them. It is thus forced to the central nervous system in which the pressure rises, and if a weak spot in the vessels is present, rupture is apt to occur. {2nd) But, if the effort is still further sustained, the high intra - thoracic pressure tends to prevent proper diastolic filling of the heart; blood is therefore not sent on from the veins into the arteries, the veins become congested and the arterial pressure falls, less blood goes to the brain, and thus fainting may result. In the "head down position," the accumu- lation of blood in the dependent parts is pre- vented in the head by the vessels being packed inside the skull, and in the right side of the heart by the supporting pericardium. In man the position of the abdominal reser- voir of blood at a lower level than the heart increases the work of that organ. For this reason, in people with a weak heart, the sudden assumption of the erect position may lead to a failure of the heart and to fainting. Especially is this the case when the abdominal wall is lax, so that accumulation of blood in the abdominal