PKEGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—HJilMORRHAGE 290 patient to rally from the collapse, which the haemorrhage has caused, before the uterus empties itself. The operation of plugging is carried out as follows :—Place the patient in the cross-bed posi- tion, with her hips well over the edge of the bed. Administer an anfesthetic if necessary, and this is most frequently the case, as the firm application of a plug which is required in these cases is rather a painful procedure. Wash the external genitals and douche out the vagina thoroughly. Then pass a posterior speculum, and, with strips of iodoform gauze soaked in lysol solution (0-5 per cent), plug tightly round and over the cervix. A speculum is not ab- solutely necessary, but, if the patient is not under an anaesthetic, it renders the proceeding less painful by protecting the perineum. The remainder of the vagina is then plugged as tightly as possible with balls of cotton-wool about the size of a golf-ball, which have been Fig. 2.—Diagram showing a vaginal tampon in situ. previously sterilised by boiling and then soaked in lysol solution. This plugging is continued until no more can be pressed into the vagina {v. Fig. 2). The patient is then put back to bed, and an abdominal binder pinned as tightly as possible round the uterus, while a T-binder is brought down between the thighs, and also fixed firmly. By this means the uterus is com- pressed between the plug in the vagina and the abdominal binder, and the intra-uterine pressure is raised. The plug is left in until strong labour pains ensue, which visually happens in from two to four hours. In some cases the onset of labour is slower than this, and in such the plug must be removed in twenty-four hours for fear of decomposition taking place. If haemorrhage comes on again it can be replaced, but this is rarely necessary. While the plug is in situ the patient must be carefully watched to see that concealed haemorrhage is not occurring. The first sign of such a condition is afforded by the patient complaining that the abdominal binder is becoming tighter than she can bear— a condition which is caused by the increase in size of the uterus. The success of this treatment depends upon three points :— (1) The uterus must be "healthy." (2) The ovum must be intact. (3) The plug m.ust be tightly applied. If the patient is in labour when the haemor- rhage starts, the first thing to be done is to rupture the membranes. This treatment, which is frequently recommended as the treatment in all cases, is now most suitable. Every time the uterus contracts it drives the presenting part or the liquor amnii against the membranes lying- over the OS internum, and these latter in turn communicate this downward impulse to the placenta. In this manner, with each contrac- tion, while the membranes are unruptured, a fresh piece of placenta is detached. When the membranes are ruptured the presenting part can advance without causing any such drag upon the placenta, and at the same time, owing to the escape of liquor amnii, the uterine cavity is diminished in size, thus causing a correspond- ing diminution in the placental site. Rupture of the membranes can be accomplished by means of a stilette or the finger-nail. Care must be taken to ensure the gradual escape of the liquor amnii, especially in those cases in which the presenting part is not fixed, lest the cord should be carried down at the same time. In addition to rupturing the membranes, a hot vaginal douche may be given to stimulate uterine con- tractions, and massage of the fundus, with the same object, may also be tried. If such treatment fails to check the bleeding, our further plan of action depends upon the size of the OS. If the latter is still quite small, the vagina must be plugged as before. This treat- ment, which would be most unsafe after the membranes are ruptured, if there were no labour pains, becomes again safe if there are strong contractions, as the latter ensure the obliteration of any space round the foetus, left by the escape of the liquor amnii. The plug is left in situ until pains of an expulsive character set in. It may then be removed. The use of the plug in cases such as this is, however, very seldom re- quired, as in the large majority of cases haemor- rhage ceases when the membranes are ruptured in the presence of uterine contractions, or else it is possible to empty the uterus. If the os is half or more dilated, and the presenting part is not fixed, podalic version, followed by extraction, is the line of treatment indicated. If, however, the patient is very much collapsed, and all haemorrhage ceases as soon as a foot has been brought down into the cervical canal, it may be advisable to leave the expulsion of the child to the natui'al efforts. Version in these cases can usually be carried out by the internal method ; in some cases it may be necessary to adopt the bi-polar method, as will be presently described.