PULSE, THE 403 be said that a slow and even fall, with little prominence of the dicrotic wave, argues a rel- atively high blood pressure ; a low pressure in the arteries is usually, but not always, distin- guished by a rapid descent of the needle, and .Fia. 39.—To show the incurved up-stroke—an instrumental defect. by a well-developed dicrotic wave. The excur- sion of the needle is generally greater when the blood pressure is low. The Value of the Sphygmogram as indicating THE State of the Blood Pressure (a) The Position of the Dicrotic Notch.—^The question of blood pressure is only partially dis- cussed by the behaviour of the needle of the sphygmograph. In forming an estimate of the arterial pressure from a pulse tracing, we should specially note the position of the dicrotic notch on the down-stroke of the curve. The higher the posi- tion of this notch the higher the blood pressure. Its height above the base line of the tracing is therefore an important point in deciding this question. The tracing. Fig. 40, was taken from the case already described, where great hypertrophy of the left ventricle co- existed with general thickening and narrowing of the arteries {see p. 401). The height of the blood pressure in this instance must have been exceptional, and it is interesting to note the remarkably high position of the dicrotic notch above the base line of the tracing. The low versely the gradual disappearance of the dicrotic wave in a case of this kind denotes that the blood pressure is falling to a dangerously low point. From a tracing of this type, if it per- sist, one may most always prognosticate a fatal issue, and in the pneumonias of young children the writer has not so far found a single ex- ception to this. A tracing is appended to illustrate this type of pulse from a child dying of broncho-pneumonia (Fig. 41). Should an increase in the blood pressure occur in a case of this kind, the first indication is the appearance of a dicrotic wave. Therefore this can always be regarded as a reassuring sign. In the rapidly dilating heart of pneu- monia and acute rheumatism in children, it has been elsewhere pointed out that the most significant and striking symptom is often the disappearance or great diminution of the di- crotic wave. A case of extreme rheumatic dilatation in a young child showed this feature when first examined, and there was also epi- gastric pulsation. After a few days' rest in bed, recovery was indicated by the reappearance \ Fig. 40.—To show the high position of the dicrotic notch above the tracing. Indicates a high arterial blood pressure. E, tricle; F, diastole of ventricle. position of the notch in aortic regurgitation may be usefully compared with this (see Fig. 37). (6) The Character of the Dicrotic Wave.— This is also suggestive. If the dicrotic wave has been absent or very small in a sphygmo- gram of the low-pressure type, and gradually becomes more developed, we may safely affirm that the arterial pressure is increasing. Con- FlQ. 41.—Pulse and respiration in a case of fatal broncho-pneumonia. Child set. If years. To show the disappearance of the dicrotic wave—blood pres- sure dangerously low. of the dicrotic wave in the pulse-curve, and by the disappearance of epigastric pulsation. (c) The Significance of the Dicrotic Wave.— The presence of the dicrotic wave indicates that there is some degree of arterial pressure, for the pressure must be excessively low when the i-ecoil wave is not sufficiently powerful to be reflected from the aortic valve. The summit of the dicrotic wave is usually less pointed than the systolic wave. DlCROTISM AND HyPERDICROTISM. —In the so-called dicrotic pulse the dicrotic notch bears a certain relationship to the base line of the trace. If it descend to the base line before the dicrotic wave is developed, the pulse is sometimes called fully dicrotic. Should the notch occur below the level of the abscissa the pulse is said to be hyperdicrotic. This may occur to such a degree that the dicrotic wave runs into the up-stroke of the next beat. The rate of the pulse, combined with increased inertia of the needle, plays a very large part in the production of this ex- aggerated dicrotism. Hyperdicrotism is always associated with great frequency of the pulse, iMiiiili the base line of systole of ven-