PURPURA 445 lants, strychnia, and inhalation of oxygen, while attempts must be made to check any necrotic tendency in the mouth. Neither large doses of quinine nor injection of anti-streptococcic serum have any influence upon the tempera- ture, and all drugs such as calcium chloride and arsenic are apparently valueless. Purpuraemia. See Blackwatbr Fever {Nomenda ture). Purpurin. — A pigment, also called uroerythrin, which gives the pink colour to urates; also a dye (Cj^HgOj) contained in madder (Bubia tinctorum). Purring Thrill. — A trembling sensa- tion felt over the prsecordia in some cases of valvular heart disease. Pus. See Suppuration ; Appendix Vermi- PORMis {Aj^pendicitis, Abscess); Bone, Diseases OF {Osteomyelitis, Local Symptoms, Suppura- tion) ; Fluids, Examination of Pathological {Pus); Liver, Tropical Affections of {Tropical Abscess); Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflamma- tion OP {Latent Empyema, Presence of Pus). Pustula,nt.—A powerful irritant, such as croton oil, which, when applied to the skin, causes acute inflammation accompanied by the formation of vesicles and pustules. Pustule, Malignant. >S'ee Anthrax; Malignant Pustule. Pustules. See Eczema ; Prurigo and Pruritus. Pustuloderma.—A skin disease char- acterised by the formation of pustules. Putamen.—The outer or basal zone of the lenticular nucleus of the brain. Putrefaction. See Death, Signs of {Putrefaction); Labour, Retention of Placenta {Putrefaction of Retained Fragments); Medicine, Forensic {Signs of Death, Putrefaction); Micro- organisms {Putrefaction); Pregnancy, Intra- uterine Diseases and Death of the Fcetus {Putrefaction); Pubrperium, Pathology {Puer- peral Infection, Prophylaxis and Treatment). Putrescin. — A poisonous ptomaine, (C4H12N2) produced in putrid human remains. See Immunity {Immunisation tvith Toxic Filtrates of Bacterial Cultures); Ptomaines ; Snake- Bites AND Poisonous Fishes {Putrefaction of Fish); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Ab- normal Nitrogenous Constituents, Diaminuria). Putrid Fever. See Typhus Fever. Putrid Sore Mouth. See Stomatitis {Ulcerative). Putty, Horsley'S. See Brain, Surgery of {Trephining, Operative Details); Horsley's Putty. Pysemia. See also Actinomycosis {Syn- onyms) ; Bed-Sores {Diagnosis); Breath {Odour); BnoNcmECTASis {Cause of Death); Chorea (Pj'o^- nosis); Colon, Diseases of {Prognosis); Hip- Joint, Diseases of {Pyogenic Diseases); Kidney, Surgical Affections {Perinephritic Abscess, Sttp- purative Pyelonephritis); Knee-Joint, Diseases OF {Pyogenic Diseases); Larynx, Affections of Cartilages {Perichondritis); Leucocytosis {In- fective Conditions); Liver, Tropical Diseases {Abscess); Malaria {Diagnosis); Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal {Diagnosis); Micro- organisms ; Nose, Acute Inflammation {S^ip- purative Rhinitis); Pubrperium, Pathology {Infection, Pycemia); Purpura ; Retina (iiTcewio?-- rhages in Pycemia); Septicemia ; Stomach, Diseases of {Infective Gastritis); Suppuration ; Teeth {Alveolar Abscess); Typhoid Fever {Diag- nosis) ; Urethra, Diseases of {Gonoi-rhoea).— The terms saprtemia, septicaemia, and pysemia have been applied to various degrees of severity of blood-poisoning. By sapreemia is meant the presence in the blood of a soluble toxic substance absorbed from a focus of disease on one of the free surfaces of the body, this disease being induced by pathogenic bacteria. Septicaemia means the presence in the blood not only of these toxic substances, but the presence in that -jiuid of the bacteria themselves; only rarely can the presence of these bacteria in the blood be satisfactorily demonstrated. In pyaemia we have a further grade of severity, in the tendency to secondary infections of different organs and tissues—the bacteria passing out from the circulation into the tissues, forming local abscesses at the site of deposit. The patho- logical appearances induced by these various degrees of infection do not call for description here, other than to say, that every grade of severity is met with, from the simple cloudy swelling and analogous changes in the special tissues to severe suppuration in the organs, serous membranes, and other tissues. Clinically these infections may be acute or chronic. As a rule, the more severe types of septicsemia and pyaemia are associated with some definite breach of surface on the skin or one of the mucous surfaces of the body. As illustrative examples we may quote septicaemia or pyaemia resulting from the occurrence of sepsis at a surgical operation, or during the management of labour. The causes of this systemic infection will be found described in various articles throughout this work; see especially " Pubrperium," " Micro-Organisms," " Bones, Diseases of." It must sufiice to say here that in many cases it is found that these infections are frequently found to be due to the pathogenic action of such bacteria as bacillus coli communis, staphy- lococcus pyogenes aureus, and streptococcus