RHEUMATISM—RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS 570 he has examined the urine of patients with arthritis deformans, in the belief that the bone changes are connected with disturbances in the secretion of bone salts. He finds the calcium salts and earthy phosphates of the urine dimin- ished. Further, he finds an increased amount of calcium salts in the cartilage of the aff'ected joint. Another view as to the source of toxins is that they are produced in the intestinal canal, especially the duodenum, as the result of fer- mentative changes, and exert a poisonous effect on the spinal cord, and through it on the joints and other tissues. This theory is well worth further investigation. The role of auto-infection in disease is prob- ably considerable, and in the intestine the formation of noxious substances becomes more abundant under a variety of morbid condi- tions. At present the larger number of the substances formed are unknown to chemistry, and the subject is one of great complexity. The influence of septic conditions of the mouth deserves more investigation than it has hitherto received, and unhealthy states of the oral mucous membrane and gums are un- doubtedly present in some cases. This imperfect sketch of the present position of the pathology of the disease is a mere note to a mass of available material. It seems clear that further classification is necessary before the subject can advance towards solution. There can be no doubt of the importance in the production of the disease of such conditions of mind and body as tend to reduce vitality, and especially such as depress the nervous health. Depress- ing influences are probably always present in addition to others of a more direct kind. If it be granted that organisms are a caus- ative agent in the arthritis of certain types of the disease, the evidence of bacteriology up to the present time seems rather to favour the idea that the organism is not specific, but that the characteristic inflammatory changes may be brought about by more than one. The valuable research of Poynton and Paine has gone far to establish the infective nature of rheumatic fever, and has identified a micro- organism which is capable of producing in animals the phenomena of the disease with greater exactness than in earlier experiments. The subject of chronic arthritis has recently been under discussion by the Chelsea Clinical Society {Lancet, i. 1901), and also by the British Medical Association at the Annual Meeting at Cheltenham {Brit. Med. Jour. ii. 1901). Dis- satisfaction with current theories as to the origin and classification of the various forms of chronic arthritis is apparent in the remarks of speakers in both discussions. At the Pathological Society of London {Brit. Med. Jour. i. 1902), Poynton and Paine re- ported a successful intravenous inoculation made by them with a diplococcus isolated and culti- vated from fluid in the knee joint of a man of sixty-seven aff'ected with chronic arthritis, and who had died of carbolic poisoning. Arthritis without cardiac lesions was produced in two rabbits. This experiment takes one step further, the probability both that micro-organisms may be important factors in the production of rheumatoid arthritis, and also that more than one organism may be capable of contributing to the production of the chronic inflammatory changes in the joint with which we are familiar. The diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis does not in a well-marked case present great difficulty. 1. Chronic gout, ivith crippling of joints as the resiilt of repeated attacks of gouty arthritis, may present some difficulty which inquiry into the history should dispel. The deformities of a chronic gouty joint may bear some resemblance to those of advanced rheumatoid arthritis, but in gout chalk-stones will usually be present either near the articulation or elsewhere in the body, and a definite history of acute attacks will be obtained. Gout is much more frequent in males, and is at first a paroxysmal disease, one or more joints being attacked acutely from time to time, with intervals of immunity, the great toe having a remarkable liability to early attack. Rheumatoid arthritis is progressive from the first, and even if its onset be acute, the joint affection does not clear up, but steadily increases from the time of attack. Acute articular gout is a decidedly rare affection in women of the present day, but the immunity of even young women cannot be wholly relied on. The writer is acquainted with an acute case in a girl of nineteen. It is of the highest importance for the patient's welfare that so serious a mistake should be avoided, for the principles of treat- ment in the two aff'ections are wholly diff"erent, and nothing is more calculated to aggravate and confirm rheumatoid arthritis than to sub- ject the suff'erer from it to a regime suitable for the treatment of gout. 2. Acute rheumatism may be closely simulated by acute rheumatoid artlaritis, and for the first few days the distinction may be impossible. The points which are most helpful are :— {a) The joints attacked in acute rheumatoid arthritis are usually the small peripheral joints, and there is no tendency to rapid migration from one to another. Those first attacked remain affected, and soon show characteristic changes. {b) Cardiac complications are less likely to occur, but are known. In adults this distinc- tion is less valuable, as cardiac complications in true rheumatism are markedly less common in them than in children. 3. Chronic rheumatism is a condition ill- defined and variously understood. That most likely to be confused with rheumatoid arthritis