PUERPERIUM, PHYSIOLOGY OF 353 5. The Nervous System.—For some hours after a normal delivery the patient lies very quiet; the mind is peaceful, owing to the feeling of satisfaction that labour is finished and the child is born. The physical condition resembles that of great fatigue, and after a prolonged labour it may even border on shock. Churchill thus de- scribes it: " After a normal labour there is a condition of nervous shock which lasts for a few hours ; during this time the sensibility of the brain is diminished, but the organs of sense are more sensitive. The eye has lost its brightness, and expresses languor and exhaustion ; but it is more intolerant to light, as the ear is to sound. After obstetrical operations the shock may be much more pronounced." This passing phase of shock, if present, soon gives place to a con- dition of exalted irritability of the whole nervous system; so that very slight physical or emotional causes are sufficient to send up the tempei-ature and otherwise disturb the patients. In those of a hysterical or highly strung temperament the border-line between sanity and insanity may easily be reached, and even overstepped. Nor- mally, this condition subsides within a week or ten days. 6. Lactation.—For the first twenty-four hours after delivery the breast-secretion is much the same as in the later part of pregnancy, and is known as colostrum. The true milk-secretion begins most frequently on the third day. Ac- cording to M'Cann and Turner's table, quoted above, the date of the first appearance of milk in the breasts presents the following relative frequency:— 1st day in 1 per cent 4th day in 39 per cent 2nd „ 5 „ 5th „ 6 3rd „ 46 ,, 6th „ 1 „ Lactation is established rather later in primi- parse than in mxdtiparae. Its onset is marked by swelling and tenderness of the breasts; the superficial veins are distended, the axillary glands are enlarged, and the lymphatics leading to them are readily felt. The more pronounced these features are, the greater are the pain and the tenderness experienced ; and when the local disturbances are considerable they are accom- panied by general malaise, loss of appetite, and some rise of temperature. As we have re- marked, the nervous system of the lying-in woman is excitable, and it is not therefore sur- prising that the temperature should show a slight rise when the breasts are very painful. This rise does not indicate that there is " milk- fever "; it is generally agreed now that no such thing exists. Moreover, as Griffith points out, it is important to remember that a rise of temperature which coincides with the onset of lactation may really be due to septic absorption from the genital canal, the effects of which appear about this time, and that disturbances in the breasts may actually be the result of such absorption. VOL. VIII At the outset, the secretion of milk, though independent of, is favoured by, the reflex stimu- lation of the gland through the nipple when the child is applied to the breast. Thereafter, as long as suckling is continued, the supply, under ordinary conditions, is kept up for nine or ten months. Sometimes, from constitutional causes, such as weakness, faulty diet or meta- bolism, or from no apparent cause, the supply runs short after three or six months ; oi', while the quantity is unchanged, the quality de- teriorates, so that the child does not thrive. In other cases suckling is persisted in for twelve or fifteen months, and exceptionally for an even longer time. The weaning of the child is com- monly followed within one or two weeks by diminution and disappearance of the milk. As long as lactation lasts, menstruation is usually in abeyance; but not infrequently the menses reappear at the fifth or sixth month, and occa- sionally a woman menstruates all through lacta- tion. Conception during this period is corre- spondingly rare. Characteristics of Colostrum and of Milh.— Colostrum is a turbid pale yellow fluid, alkaline, and slightly viscid from the presence of mucin. Chemically, it contains more fat, sugar, and inorganic salts than are found in the milk secreted later ; and, in contradistinction to the latter, it contains a considerable quantity of globulin and very little caseinogen. Microscopi- cally, it is characterised by fat globules, mucous corpuscles, shed epithelium, and colostrum corpuscles. The latter are swollen rounded cells loaded with fat globules ; they are cast-ofF cells of the alveolar epithelium, and by suitable reagents can be shown to possess a nucleus, and to exhibit amoeboid characters under certain con- ditions. Colostrum has a mild laxative action, due, according to Winckel, to its relatively large quantities of phosphate of calcium, and chlorides of sodium, potassium, and magnesium. Human milk has a bluish-white tinge as com- pared with cow's milk, and, like the latter, has a neutral or faintly alkaline reaction. In carniv- ora the milk is acid. The chemical composition of human and of cow's milk is given by Frank- land as follows :— Human Milk. Cow's Milk. Proteids (chiefly caseinogen) 2 7 per cent 4"2 per cent Fat 3-5 ,, 3-8 Sugar (lactose) . . 5'0 ,, 3'8 ,, Salts 0-2 ,, 07 ,, Microscopically, milk presents the character- istics of an emulsion, with very finely divided fat globules and a few epithelial cells. Colos- trum corpuscles are not found after the first few days. Histological Changes.—Halliburton gives the following excellent account of these changes :— " The alveoli of the glands during the secreting periods are found to be lined with very short columnar cells, with nuclei situated towards the 23