351 PUERPERIUM, PHYSIOLOGY OF Thus it has been attributed to the mental and physical rest of the puerperal woman ; to im- poverishment of the blood from abundant losses ; to increased arterial tension (Blot, Marey, H^mey); to the horizontal position (Fritsch); to altered innervation (Lohlein); and lastly to fat in the blood derived from the involution of the uterine muscle (Olshausen). With regard to arterial tension during the puerperium, there is again a diversity of opinion. Fintsch stated that it is diminished, and Meyburg confirmed this view ; on the other hand, Probyn-Williams and Cutler support the teaching of Blot and Marey that it is usually raised. The differences of opinion may be due in some measure to want of discrimination between the immediate effect of delivery on the tension and the condition when that effect has passed off. According to Probyn-Williams and Cutler, the tension varies considerably during the first twenty-four hours after delivery, being sometimes increased and sometimes diminished ; but at the end of twenty-four hours it has always inci-eased so as to equal, or more often surpass, the tension during labour. The dura- tion of the increase varies, but is usually longer in multiparse. A rise of temperature, even though slight, rapidly reduces the tension. The oedema and the varicose condition of the veins in the vulva and legs, which are so often present in the later months of pregnancy, usually rapidly subside after delivery. The respiratory rhythm is said by some writers to become slowed during the puerperium. In Probyn-Williams and Cutler's cases this was not the case; the average rate was 20 to 22, and followed the pulse-rate in being higher in the morning, rather than the temperature, which was higher in the evening. The capacity of the lungs is not usually altered ; for although the diaphragm has a greater range of movement after the emptying of the uterus, this is neutral- ised by the narrowing of the base of the thorax, which had been expanded during pregnancy. 3. The Digestive System.—For the first few days after labour there is a loss of appetite, which no doubt has a physiological relation to the diminished demand on metabolism, when the mother no longer has to nourish the foetus in utero, and before the new claim of lactation is established. On the other hand, thirst is increased owing to the rapid elimination of fluids by the skin and kidneys. The action of the bowels is nearly always sluggish ; this is attributed to the patient's quiescent condition, to the small quantity of food taken, to the increased activity of the other emunctories, and to the relaxation of the abdominal walls. Another factor which, it seems to me, cannot be ignored, is the diminished intra-abdominal pressure, which results in a temporary vaso- motor paresis ; as a consequence of this the innervation of the intestines remains in abey- ance, and the " abdominal pool " becomes filled by dilatation of the vessels in the splanchnic area. 4. The Excretory System.—For about the first week after labour the quantity of urine secreted is increased. This increase relates mainly to water, for in respect of solids the total quantity eliminated shows no increase. Thus the absolute quantity of urea and of chloi'ide of sodium is unaltered, whilst there is an actual decrease in the quantity of phosphates and sulphates. The specific gravity ranges about 1010 to 1015. Peptone, derived from the uterine involution, is commonly present for several days. In view of the researches of Vicarelli and Knapp on acetonuria in pregnant women, which led these investigators to the con- clusion that the presence of acetone in the urine was pathognomonic of the death of the fojtus, it is interesting to note that Mercier and Menu found acetone in the urine of three out of six normal puerperal women. There has been a considerable discussion as to the presence and significance of sugar in the urine since this phenomenon was first demonstrated by Blot in 1856. Blot held that sugar existed normally in the urine of all lying-in and suckling women, and in a certain number of pregnant women, and considered that the sugar gave an indication as to the quality of the milk. At first these views were not universally accepted. Wieder- hold (1857) ascribed the reaction to mucus, and Leconte (1857) to uric acid. Riedel (1858), from the examination of eleven puerperal women, concluded that sugar was not normally present in the urine. On the other hand, Kirsten (1857) confirmed Blot's results, except that he affirmed that the amount of sugar was inversely proportional to the quantity of milk ; and Briicke (1858) concluded that sugar was normally present in the urine not only of the nursing woman, but also of the healthy man ; whilst Iwanoflf (1861) took an intermediate position, saying that sugar was frequently but not constantly found. Lecocq (1863) held much the same view as Briicke, except that he thought that, whilst sugar was normally present in the urine, it was found more abun- dantly in the urine of nursing women. Chailley (1869) found sugar in 3 cases out of 13. De Sinety (1873) showed that glycosuria could be produced at will by sudden suppression of lactation, and that it disappeared when the secretion and excretion of milk were balanced ; and in a later communication (1876) he showed that the sugar might have other than a mam- mary origin, for the veins of the gland contained less sugar than the arteries. Hempel (1874-75), from an analysis of 12 cases, concluded that sugar was always present at some stage of lactation ; but Gubler (1876), Johannowsky (1878), and Verneuil (1882) returned to the view of Kirsten, saying that sugar was only