IN CHILDREN 551 RHEUMATISM several other micro-organisms. Moreover, it is difficult to explain the sudden onset of certain manifestations, presumably rheumatic in char- acter, that come on in persons subject to rheumatism, either directly after, or indeed simultaneously with, the exposure to cold or damp, on the assumption that the complaint is one of bacterial origin. Where all is so un- settled there is no need to discuss the question at any length, more especially as it is treated of elsewhere in this volume (p. 579 et seq.). Etiology.—Inheritance from father or mother is a powerful disposing cause, and this is largely increased when both parents are rheumatic. When one member of a family, too, has suffered from rheumatism, there is a much greater liability for the brothers and sisters to incur the complaint than the members of other families, even when there is no parental in- heritance. That living in cold, damp, low-lying situations predisposes to rheumatism is beyond question, and of late it has been stated that dry hilly places exposed to bleak winds are equally unfavourable as regards the complaint. Males suffer more often than females owing to more frequent exposure to wet and damp, but apart from this, either sex under the age of ten is equally liable to the complaint. Between the ages of ten and fifteen, however, there is a marked preponderance of cases amongst girls, and this has been put forward as some explana- tion of the greater prevalence of mitral stenosis in the female sex. In temperate climates the disease is most prevalent in the spring. There is some evidence for believing that red-haired children are more prone to rheumatism than others. A very powerful factor in predisposing to the complaint is the fact of having suffered from a previous attack, there being no doubt that subsequent attacks are incurred with much slighter causes than those tliat occasioned the primary one. Immediate exciting causes are exposure to prolonged damp and undue physical fatigue, a combination of these two, indeed, accounting for considerably more than half the total number of cases. Age. — Probably no age is exempt from rheumatism. Cases with unmistakable out- ward signs in the joints, etc., are exceedingly rare under the age of two years, and rare under that of three years. After the latter age attacks occur more frequently with each year of life up to the age of ten years. Possibly more attacks occur during the second decade of life than any other, and it is un- common for a primary attack to occur after the age of twenty. Owing to the slight character of the symptoms in infancy it is probable that the frequency of rheumatism at that age is underestimated, and it is not uncommon to see little children with cardiac lesions of some standing, presumably rheumatic in origin, but where the outward symptoms of that complaint had been so trivial at the times of attack as to be wholly overlooked. Onset.—In older children this may be more or less sudden, with marked pyrexia and acute pains in the joints. Such an onset is very seldom present, however, in the younger sub- jects. In these there is almost invariably a history of indefinite pains in the joints, the knees in most instances at the start, and it is only after these pains have lasted several days, or even weeks, that an increase of them, or swelling of the joints, calls attention to the true nature of the attack, and compels the confinement of the child to bed. Rigors and other nervous phenomena that occasionally usher in the disease in adults are practically unknown in children under the age of puberty. Symptoms. — The isolated character of the symptoms in the majority of attacks in children, in contrast to the complex grouping of them that mark the more definite attacks in adults, justifies the plan proposed of dealing with each of them in detail. It is only in children, perhaps, that a confident diagnosis of rheumat- ism can be made from the presence of such isolated symptoms. Pain.—This is almost invariably present, at some time or another, in every attack. In many cases, indeed, it is the only symptom complained of. It varies much in intensity and duration, but in both these particulars it sel- dom reaches the same height in children as in adults. It cannot be too carefully remembered that, in the vast majority of instances, the so- called " growing pains" of children are rheu- matic in nature. It is far from uncommon to find advanced endocarditis in children in whom the only symptom of rheumatism has been these "growing pains." The history of "growing pains," too, often settles the rheumatic origin of many cases of chorea in the absence of other symptoms. When pain alone is complained of, the greatest care is necessary in ascertaining that it is limited to the joints before deciding that it is due to rheumatism, as in many febrile and other diseases children complain of vague pains in other parts of the limbs than the joints. The effects of passive movement may assist in this inquiry, but, for obvious reasons, cannot be definitely relied upon. When arth- ritis is present the pain is generally greater, and, indeed, it may be said in general terms that the amount and duration of the pain is directly propoi'tionate to the extent of the arthritis. In some cases the pain is not limited to the swollen joints, but extends to the tendons of the muscles entering into their formation, and very exceptionally it can be unmistakably elicited by pressure over the nerves of the limbs away from the neighbourhood of the joints. Pain in the pericardium generally, but by no means invariably, attends the onset of pericard- itis. Prtecordial pain, too, may accompany