PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 66 3. Physiology of Pancreatic Secretion.—The secretion of pancreatic juice is not constant, but is induced when the acid chyme passes into the duodenum. This occurs even when all the nerves to the intestine have been cut, and it appears from the investigations of Starling to beldue to the formation of a material which has TKYPSIM HUT Fig. 166.—To show the mode of action of secretin and the action of the vagus nerve on the secretion of the pancreas and the activation of trypsinogen by enterokinase. been called secretin, in the epithelium lining the intestine, under the influence of an acid. This is absorbed, and, on being carried to the pancreas, stimulates it to secrete. It has been shown that the injection into the blood of an extract, made with dilute hydrochloric acid, of the lining membrane of the upper part of the small intestine, leads to a flow of pancreatic juice. This secretin is not destroyed by boiling, and is soluble in strong alcohol. It is therefore not of the nature of an enzyme. But while secretin seems to play so important a role, it has been found that stimulation of the vagus nerve, after a latent period of two minutes, increases pancreatic secretion, so that it must be concluded that the secretion of the fluid is, to a certain extent, under the control of the nervous system. The influence of the pancreas in the general metabolism will be considered later (p. 84). B. Secretion of the Intestitial Wall {Succus Entericus) This is formed in the Lieberkiihn's follicles of the intestine, and it may be procured by cutting the intestine across at two points, bringing each end of the intermediate piece to the surface, and connecting together the ends from which this piece has been taken away so as to make a continuous tube. On mechanically irritating the mucous membrane, a pale yellow clear fluid is secreted, which contains native proteins and mucin, and is alkaline in reaction from the presence of sodium carbonate. Action.—The succus entericus contains : (1) An enzyme which splits some disaccharids, as maltose and cane sugar, into mono- saccharids, but does not seem to act on lactose. (2) In the intestine of animals taking milk a special zymin, lactase, which splits milk sugar. (3) Erepsin, an enzyme which seems to act more power- fully than trypsin in splitting pep- tones into their component non- protein crystalline constituents such as the di-amido acids and mon-amido acids, e.g. leucin and tyrosin. The object of this is not at present fully understood. It may be that the nitrogen of the protein is largely treated as a waste product and thrown oft". But feed- ing experiments on dogs and rats seem to show that these non-protein derivatives of proteins can be re- tained and built into the proto- plasm of the animal. Vernon has shown that a similar proteolytic enzyme is widely distributed in the tissues, being specially abundant in the kidney. (4) Enterokinase—a zymin which, acting on trypsinogen, converts it into active trypsin (p. 65). Mechanism of Secretion.—The taking of food leads to a flow of intestinal secretion which reaches its maximum in about three hours ; and this flow is much greater from the upper part of the bowel than from the lower. There is some evidence that the injection of secretin calls forth this secretion, and according to some observers, the injection of succus entericus into the circulation acts in the same way. As regards the action of nerves very little is known. It has been found that, when the intestine is ligatured in three places so as to form two closed sacs, if the nerves to one of these be divided, it becomes filled with a clear fluid closely resembling lymph. The dilatation of the blood-vessels may account for this without secretion being implicated. C. Bile 1. Characters and Composition.—The bile is the secretion of the liver, and it may be pro- cured for examination — {a) From the gall bladder, or {h) from the bile passages by making a fistula into them. Bile which has been in the gall bladder is richer in solids than bile taken directly from the ducts, because water is absorbed by the walls of the bladder and the bile thus becomes concentrated.