OPTIC NERVE 529 RETINA AND opacity of the retina, produced largely by oedema; the darkness of the blood-vessels is accounted for partly by absence of the central light-streak, partly by contrast, but mainly by their being seen by transmitted light. Symptoms and Cause. — There is often a history of a comparatively rapid impairment of vision; objects sometimes appearing distorted or as covered by a thick black veil. Sometimes we have complaints of quick flashes of light. As already mentioned, central vision may remain good for some time, but in a large number of cases the detachment gradually extends, and the sight becomes progressively worse, until ulti- mately there is complete blindness or only the barest perception of light. The lens often be- comes opaque in the case of large detachments that have lasted for some time. Treatment.—In recent cases of serous de- tachment we can often get satisfactory im- provement of vision, for a time at least. But the necessary remedial measures are decidedly irksome, and even trying to the general health, if all the indications are strictly followed out. What we desire is absorption of the subretinal effusion. Rest, lying on the back, in a dimly lighted room is particularly to be insisted on for several weeks, and the eye should be kept covered with a moderately firm pressure bandage. All exertion or sudden effort must be avoided, and the bowels carefully regulated. Diaphor- etics are recommended, and even purgatives, but such a course is necessarily very lowering, and the patient's general condition must not be forgotten in our desire to get a good local result. In the case of detachment occurring in an only remaining eye, the importance of regaining vision is sufficiently great to warrant the above indicated line of treatment, and there is seldom any difficulty in persuading the patient to submit to it. When the detachment is large and evidently much distended by the subjacent fluid, puncture of the sclerotic at the site of the greatest displacement may be resorted to as a preliminary to other treatment. When there is reason to believe that the detachment is due to a choroidal tumour, ex- cision of the globe without delay is the proper course. Injuries of the Retina.—Blows on the eye may cause haemorrhage in the retina, or detach- ment. Occasionally, when the eyeball receives a direct blow about the middle of the cornea, the macular region is injured, and becomes oedematous or slightly detached, with local choroido-retinal changes. It is not uncommon for the eye after a contusion to be almost blind for a short time, the sight then returning to normal without any ophthalmoscopic change being visible (retinal concussion). In rare instances of this kind we find a localised milky- white cloudiness of the retina corresponding to l! the part at which the force of the blow was felt. VOL. VIII This lasts for about three days and then dis- appears, and soon afterwards the vision usually is restored to normal {see also " Eyeball, In- juries OF," vol. iii. p. 207). Glioma of the retina is essentially a disease of early childhood, and is usually met with at some time between infancy and the age of three years. It commences insidiously without pain or inflammation, and grows rapidly. By its growth/brirarJs it soon fills the eye- ball, and then perforating the outer coats involves the other orbital tissues; finally, there is a very large, fleshy, readily bleeding protrusion from between the lids without any manifest trace of the globe. Backwards it extends along the optic nerve, and ultimately invades the brain. It not infrequently causes secondary deposits in the scalp, the neighbouring lymphatic glands, and sometimes in the liver and other distant parts. Death takes place from exhaustion or from implication of vital organs. Occasionally it attacks both eyes independ- ently. It sometimes occurs in several members of the same family. Diagnosis.—Sometimes the child is brought at an early stage, because the attention of the mother or nurse has been aroused by seeing a whitish appearance from behind the pupil. At this time the eye is still quiet, looks natural, except for its white reflex, and has normal tension. In many cases the child is not brought until a later period, when redness and pain in the eye are observed ; we now usually find the symptoms of secondary glaucoma—dilatation of the pupil, slight steaminess of cornea, engorged scleral veins, tenderness on light pressure, and increase of tension. By focal illumination we see a yellowish white, rounded, or lobulated solid-looking mass projecting into the vitreous, with blood-vessels visible on its surface, and occasionally small, white, chalky-looking bodies in the vitreous over it. In some cases, especially in an early stage, it is simulated by inflammatory deposits occurring in the vitreous, due to suppurative choroiditis (pseudo-glioma). The tension of the eyeball in this affection, however, is never raised, and is usually found diminished. As all vision is lost, it is our duty, in every doubtful case, to deal with the eye as if it were a glioma. Pathology.—The naked eye appearance is that of a soft, marrow-like growth of a whitish or reddish white colour, sometimes studded with small calcareous bodies; it is never pigmented. The tumour is composed of small cells, and the growth generally originates in the granular layers of the retina. The treatment consists in early removal of the affected eyeball, dividing the optic nerve as far back as possible. If extra-ocular structures are already to some extent affected, it is advisable to thoroughly eviscerate the orbit, and apply chloride of zinc paste to the surface so left. If 34