PNEUMONIA—BACTERIOLOGICAL SECTION 161 cidence of pneumonia from exposure to cold, and as a sequel to debilitating diseases and exhausting fevers. Apparently the cocci in the buccal and nasal secretions are not suffi- ciently virulent to produce any pathogenic effects in health. But, when the resistance is lowered by some depressing influence, the organ- isms are enabled to infect the tissues and develop inflammatory conditions. From their anatomical positions the lungs would be most easily infected, but the readiness with which an otitis or a meningitis might be developed from the nares is also obvious. The contention that inoculation of pure cul- tures does not sufficiently reproduce the disease in animals is quite untenable when the follow- ing points are considered :—(1) The effects of inoculating pneumococci of varying virulence in animals of varying susceptibility; (2) the fact that, in the human subject, the lesions admittedly due to pneumococci are almost as varied as those produced in animals by artificial means; (3) the analogy with such organisms as the bacillus anthracis, which causes in the susceptible ox or guinea-pig an acute septicaemia, and in the more immune human subject an intense local reaction. The fact that even in the lung in man there is no constant lesion—the pneumococcus being associated sometimes with an acute lobar pneu- monia, sometimes with a broncho-pneumonia— is more difficult to explain. It has been sug- gested that variations in virulence and in sus- ceptibility might modify the result, and probably also the precise mode of entrance to the lung- would condition the anatomical form of the lesion. Other Bacteria associated with Acute Pneumonia. — Although, as has been shown, there is good reason to believe that the pneu- mococcus is the essential cause of all typical forms of acute lobar pneumonia, there are many other conditions in which acute pneumonia may arise. Some of these forms are broncho- pneumonic in type, others are of a mixed character, and of both of these it may be said, either (a) that they are due to the pneumococcus alone—broncho-pneumonic forms of pneumo- coccal infection especially predominating in chil- dren, or (5) that they are due to other bacteria associated with the pneumococcus, or (c) that they are due to other bacteria alone. Among the various bacteria which may be the cause of acute pneumonia (other than typical lobar forms), and which may act either in conjunc- tion with or independently of the pneumococcus, are Friedliinder's pneumobacillus and those asso- ciated with the following diseases : influenza, plague, diphtheria, enteric fever, septicaemia, and pyaemia. Friedlander's pneumobacillus is of special interest as being one of the original claimants for supremacy in the production of acute lobar pneumonia. In 1886, when the fundamental VOL. VIII papers of Fraenkel and of Weichselbaum ap- peared, the former concluded that the pneu- mococcus was the sole cause of true lobar pneumonia, while the latter held that about 5 per cent was due to the pneumobacillus alone. Each view still has its own supporters, but most recent work is in the direction of showing that the pneumobacillus, though frequently associated with the pneumococcus, is not the essential factor in typical lobar forms. A short bacillus, usually arranged in pairs, and in body fluids and tissues usually encapsulated, it differs from the pneumococcus in not retaining the stain by Gram's method, and in growing more readily in culture, forming the " nail" growth in gelatine. The fact that it more readily adapts itself to a saprophytic existence offers a probable explanation of the cases in which this organism alone has been cultivated from acute lobar pneumonia, for at the time when the lung tissue or secretion is examined, the pneumo- coccus may be so devitalised as not to grow in artificial culture, and not to infect animals on inoculation. It must be admitted, however, that the pneumobacillus is distinctly pathogenic to certain animals; rabbits appear to be im- mune, but guinea-pigs and mice may die of an acute septicaemia, so that the pnevxmobacillus may play an important part in human disease, especial acute pulmonary inflammations, though not the essential cause of lobar pneumonia. In the acute pneumonia consecutive to influ- enza, the type of the lesion is mainly broncho- pneumonic, with acute interstitial changes. In the lungs and sputum the influenza bacillus has been found alone, but more frequently it is found associated with the pneumococcus. In the intense heemorrhagic forms of broncho- pneumonia that may occur in plague, it often happens that plague bacilli alone are found in the lung and sputum, but in many cases pneu- mococci too are present. In the broncho- pneumonia secondary to diphtheria, pneumococci are frequently present, associated with either diphtheria bacilli or streptococci, or both. In the course of enteric fever a mixed form of pneumonia may occur, in which typhoid bacilli may be present alone or along with pneumo- cocci. In septic and suppurative pneumonias pyogenic bacteria are sometimes the only varieties found, but more frequently there is superadded an infection by the pneumococcus. Clinical Section Definition . . . . • .162 Historical 162 Etiology . . . . • .164 {See also "Bacteriology," p. 156). Predisposing Causes . . . .167 Incubation . . . . • .169 Clinical Features . . . . .170 Pneurnonia in Childhood . . .175 Pneumonia in Old Age . . .177 11