142 PLEURA, DISEASES OF temperature is variable. In 4 of the 13 cases already mentioned aspiration was followed by a marked fall in temperature. In several cases aspiration had no effect upon the temperature, and in one case the pyrexia seemed to be aggravated by the operation. The idea that persistent pyrexia contra-indicates aspiration seems to be without foundation. The management of the convalescent stage of pleurisy is a matter of the utmost consequence, to which hardly sufficient attention is usually paid. We shall first consider the management of this stage in cases which pursue a fairly normal and favourable course, and, secondly, in those troublesome and difficult cases of recurring and persistent eff'usion. In the former cases a definitely tonic line of treatment should be early adopted. When the pyrexia has dis- appeared or becomes trifling, the patient should leave his bed, take gentle exercise at first in- doors, and before long in the fresh air, and be instructed to breathe deeply and use the dumb- bells. A change of air—preferably to upland air —and gentle daily walking exercise on moderate inclines will often have the happiest results in these cases. Singing may be practised with advantage. The diet should be as liberal as the state of the digestion will permit. The possibility of subsequent phthisis is always to be borne in mind, and a winter at one of the Alpine stations will sometimes be advisable. It is reasonable to hope that by such measures the proportion of these cases which ultimately be- come phthisical may be materially reduced. Much more difficult is the management of those cases, by no means rare, where in spite of re- peated aspiration the fluid obstinately reaccumu- lates, and no real progress is made. Aspiration should have a fair trial, but no rule can be laid down as to how often it should be repeated. The writer is averse to very frequent repetition of the operation, except as a palliative measure in obviously incurable cases. It seems to be generally agreed that free incision and drainage is not to be advised in these cases, and that injections of astringents or antiseptics are use- less. The writer has no experience of these methods. Perhaps the best course to pursue in these unpromising cases is to adopt some approximation to the tonic and hygienic line of treatment advised for the more favourable class. At best the outlook is gloomy. Too often the heart becomes dilated, dropsy sets in, or else an intractable empyema is set up, or in some other way the general health is ruined. Lardaceous disease sometimes marks the final stage. Prob- ably a large proportion of these cases are tubercular. In dealing with any case of pulmonary disease the fact of an antecedent pleurisy should always be allowed considerable weight. It suggests caution in prognosis and a careful search for evidence of tuberculosis. It should not be forgotten in connection with life assurance forecasts. (For a discussion of the surgical aspects of aspiration,see "Paracentesis Thoracis," p. 150.) Pleurisy in Children "Pleurisy in children," says Henoch, "differs in no essential particular from the same disease in later life." This is true, there being no features of the disease peculiar to any period of life, yet pleurisy in the child requires special attention. The difficulties of diagnosis are greater in the child than in the adult, and mis- leading signs and symptoms are more common. We shall briefly summarise the more important points. (a) Mode of Onset.—Vomiting, epileptiform convulsions, and other symptoms of cerebral irritation are commoner in the child than in the adult, but, on the other hand, an insidious onset is very common in the child, and the disease can be recognised only by physical examination. {h) Nature of the Effusion.—The effusion is more often purulent in the child than in the adult. Goodheart found pus in 78 out of 149 cases of pleural effusion in childhood. It is about an even chance whether we shall find pus in any case of acute pleurisy with effusion occurring in a child. Loculation of the fluid is common. (c) Physical Signs.—The peculiarities of the physical signs of pleurisy in the child depend upon the facts that at this age the chest walls are more yielding, and the lung tissue more elastic and less easily compressed than in the adult. Deep percussion will often yield reson- ance, even in the presence of a large effusion. Light percussion is more satisfactory. Skodaic resonance is well marked. Alterations in the tactile fremitus are less trustworthy in the child than in the adult. Bronchial breathing is the rule in childhood, either early in the case or lasting throughout the entire effusion stage. It is often but not always weak and " distant" in quality. Some- times the breathing has the normal vesicular character, but is less distinct than in health. "Good though deficient vesicular murmur," says Goodheart, "may be present all over the side which is full of fluid, and unless this is remembered there is likely to be a mistake in diagnosis." In certain cases of pleurisy in children the signs, especially in the mammary region, may closely simulate those of cavity. The breathing is hollow, and there are ad- ventitious sounds not easily distinguishable from gurgling rales. In such cases the general history of the case, the examination of the sputum, the position of the heart, and the result of puncture may be relied upon to establish the diagnosis. The exaggeration of the breath sounds on the healthy side is marked.