PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—OTHER AFFECTIONS AND COMPLICATIONS 279 these measures fail, the question of induction of abortion must be seriously considered. It is in itself attended by the risk of bringing on an eclamptic attack; but considering the matter from all points, and if severe headache and dizziness are present, there is no doubt of the propriety of performing it. The operation may be carried out by means of tents, or at one sitting under an ansesthetic. If the albumin appears late in the progress of gestation active measures are at once necessary —free purgation, administration of chloral and bromide of potash, and everything prepared for the induction of premature labour. {See " Eclampsia," vol. iii. p. 3.) VIII. Cutaneous Rashes.—Anomalous pig- mentation consists of the deposit of a brownish pigment in various sites on the skin, especially the face, areolae, and external genitalia. The forehead is covered with dark, irregular patches more marked near the roots of the hair; dark rings appear round the eyes and occasionally round the root of the nose and the mouth (pregnancy mask). In cicatricial tissue the pigmentation is often very marked. Similar staining is found about the navel and the umbilico-pubic line. The thenar and hypo- thenar eminences may become stained a deep pink colour immediately pregnancy commences ; this variety disappears immediately after labour, but a slight amount of pigmentation is always permanent to some extent. Herpes gestationis usually begins in the form of clusters of vesicles on the vulva or on the extremities, and may spread over the whole body. The rash persists as a rule throughout the pregnancy, and disappears spontaneously after delivery, returning with a fresh concep- tion. The treatment is exactly as in the non- gravid condition. Impetigo herpetiformis appears as small pus- tules on the inner side of the thighs. They spread rapidly and may involve the scalp. Much constitutional effect is produced, and the disease may even run a fatal course. {See "Dermatitis," vol. ii. p. 304.) Pruritus^ or itching, may affect the vulva only or the whole of the body surface. It may become so intense, and produce such constitu- tional disturbance as to lead to a consideration of induction of premature labour. It is usually a neurosis, but may be due to eczema or intertrigo. The best modes of treatment are purgation and the administration of the bromides, with local cleanliness and the application of lotio nigra or a solution of hydi-o- chlorate of cocaine. Sitting in a hot bath con- taining boracic acid just before going to bed is often a very effectual remedy. IX. Specific Fevers. — It was formerly be- lieved that the pregnant woman was protected or immune from the specific fevers, and that the pregnant condition had a curative effect on others ; this has been proved to be entirely erroneous. Many of the fevers when complicating preg- nancy may run an unaltered course, or may produce grave complications. Abortion often results from the high temperature, or from the effect of the diseased maternal blood upon the epithelium of the foetal placenta. The foetus may be born with the rash fully out upon it. It is said that the child born of a woman suffering from a specific fever may in some instances be immune from that particular variety. {a) Variola. — This is the most frequently observed among the exanthemata attacking the pregnant woman; it is attended by extreme danger, owing to the liability of the patient to the haemorrhagic variety; premature labour and abortion are hence very common, and severe uterine haemorrhage frequent. A peculiar clini- cal fact has been noted, that in smallpox epi- demics many women will abort with much haemorrhage without the rash appearing. It is always advisable to vaccinate a pregnant woman if she is liable to be brought into con- tact with this disease. The mortality in the severer forms is at least 90 per cent, while in the milder epidemics about 10 per cent, {h) Enterica (typhoid) is said to be more frequent during the earlier months of pregnancy than later ; abortion and premature labour occur in nearly 70 per cent. The higher the tempera- ture the greater the risk of abortion. The use of cold baths to reduce the fever certainly conduces to a premature interruption of preg- nancy. The prognosis is good in mild cases occurring early in gestation, but more grave in the later months and after a continuance of pyrexia. The treatment cannot in any way be modified from that pursued in the non-pregnant state. (c) Scarlatina is more frequent after delivery than during the pregnant condition, leading to the supposition that the patient may to some extent be immune. {d) Morbilli, unless of a very grave type, runs a normal course and without affecting mother or child, (e) Erysipelas is dangerous from the proba- bilities of postpartum infection taking place, and acute septic disease setting in indistinguish- able from puerperal septicaemia. (/) Continued fevers may attack the pregnant woman, and from the pyrexia lead to abortion. X. Osseous Changes.—Osteophytes are small bony deposits which form on the inner tube of the cranial vault, and chiefly on the frontal and parietal bones. They mainly lie along the groove of the middle meningeal artery. It is said that they are, however, not entirely con- fined to the pregnant condition. {See also "Pregnancy, Physiology of," p. 222.) Osteo-malacia (malacosteon) is an extremely rare complication of pregnancy in the British Isles, but is common in Germany and Austria.