PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—AFFECTIONS OF OVUM AND DECIDUA 247 metastases appear in the vagina, cervix, and pelvic organs, and also in the lungs, liver, brain, kidneys, and other viscera. Death is usually caused by septicaemia, or by pulmonary or cerebral complications due to metastasis, and occurs as a rule within six or seven months of the beginning of the disease, which is thus the most rapidly fatal of all known malignant growths. The uterus generally contains irregular masses of new growth of very soft friable consistency, composed largely of blood-clot and necrotic tissue, and varying in colour from greyish red to dark purple. The growth in- volves the muscular wall of the uterus, and sections of it show, besides blood and debris, cell elements of two kinds, and occasionally complete chorionic villi. The cell elements are (1) large individual cells, round, oval, polyg- onal, or spindle shaped, with large nuclei and clearly defined protoplasm; and (2) irregularly shaped masses of vacuolated material containing numerous nuclei, but showing no cell oiitlines. The metastases in other parts of the body present the same appearances. The spread of the disease is mainly by the blood stream. Schmorl reported a case which he considered to be of this nature, in which the uterus was not affected; and Davis and Harris have de- scribed a case in which abortion was induced for pernicious vomiting, the uterus being curetted, and being then healthy. The patient soon died of general carcinomatosis, which the authors consider to be chorioma malignum, although the uterus was found perfectly healthy at the autopsy. It will be remembered that the foetal epiblast, as observed in the epithelium of the young chorion and its villi, consists of two layers, which, though not often so distinct in nature as in the figures of some authors, are easily recognisable in favourable specimens. These are (1) a layer of nucleated protoplasm known as the syncytium, and (2) a layer of large cells with distinct outlines known as Langhans' layer. These, it is said, are the physiological proto- types of the elements of the so-called chorioma malignum, the irregular plasmodial masses seen in that growth being supposed to be derived from the syncytium, while the individual cells are the pathological derivatives of the cells of Langhans' layer. The appearances presented by the chorionic epithelium in hydatid mole are said to present a transition stage between the normal chorion and the malignant new growth. In the cases of Schmorl and of Harris and Davis above mentioned the foetal epiblastic structures are said to have passed through the uterine wall and entered the maternal circulation, filling the maternal organism with deposits of malignant new growth, yet leaving the uterus itself perfectly healthy. Whether these two cases are accepted or not, the fact remains that the chorionic origin of the majority of the re- corded cases is believed in at the present time by most writers on the subject. The diagnosis is easy. Whenever pregnancy, more especially molar pregnancy, is followed by repeated bleedings and persistent discharge, the uterus should be examined, and scrapings from its interior should be submitted to microscopic examination. The characteristic appearances of sections at once make clear the nature of the case. The prognosis is absolutely bad, unless surgi- cal treatment is undertaken at an early date. If the uterus is removed, the patient has a very fair chance, recovery having occurred in about one-third of the cases recorded. In most of these the uterus was removed before metastases had appeared. In several cases, however, recovery has followed hysterectomy, although metastases were present, the extravasation of blood around these having apparently destroyed their nutrition and life. The treatment consists in hysterectomy performed as soon as possible after the diagnosis is made, as any waste of time in curetting and other partial measures may be fatal to the patient's chances of recovery. Affections of the Amnion The pathology of the amnion is best under- stood when it is regarded as a serous membrane, liable to variations in its powers of secretion and absorption, and also to inflammations which may cause it to throw out exudates which may be plastic as well as serous. Hydramnios {Syn. : Polyhydramnios, hydrops amnii).—The accumulation within the amniotic cavity of an excessive quantity of liquor amnii may begin at any time during pregnancy. If slight in degree, it causes no symptoms, and may pass unnoticed even during labour. If more pronounced, it may attract attention and demand treatment many weeks before term. At the end of pregnancy the quantity of liquor amnii usually varies between one and two pints, but the condition is seldom noticed unless two quarts or more are present. Quantities of fluid such as six gallons have been removed from the uterus at term. If the accumulation is rapid instead of gradual, the condition is known as acute hydramnios, and presents a much more striking clinical picture than the more familiar variety. The fluid may be derived from the serum of the maternal blood, as is shown by the occurrence of hydramnios together with other serous effusions. It may also be due to the increased secretion by the amnion of fluid derived from the foetal blood. This may be caused by any circumstance which raises the blood pressure in the umbilical vein, such as disease of the liver in syphilitic foetuses, and twists or knots in the cord. Excessive secretion of urine by the foetus and abnormal perspiration through the foetal