356 PUERPERIUM, PHYSIOLOGY OF mean of the morning and evening records) and Luisstag. Stevens and Griffith 1st day • H 2nd „ . 5 3rd „ • 4f 4th „ • 41- 5th „ . 4 6th „ . 31 ■ 3| 7th „ 8th „ . H 9th „ 0 5 10th „ • n nth „ 91 12th „ ■ H Luisstag. 6 inches 4f5i „ 4| 4 3^ „ 3| „ H OS 2^ 2^ >^ 2 or under. Varnier thinks that Luisstag's figures are too high, and says that he has often found the height of the fundus less than 5 inches in the second half of the first day; 4 inches on the second day; 2| to 3\ at the fifth to seventh day; and lying behind the pubes towards the ninth day. The height of the fundus is increased by (1) Distension of bladder, rectum, and in- testines. (2) Mechanical distension of the uterus by clots, retained placenta, or membranes. (3) Sub-involution. (4) Anatomical peculiarities, such as abnormal high position of the uterus or unusual thickness of its walls. The height of the fundus is diminished by malposition of the uterus—namely, prolapse, retroversion, extreme anteflexion, and excessive lateral obliquity. In cases in which there is a doubt as to whether the enlargement of the uterus, as indi- cated by the height above the symphysis, is apparent or real, the external measurement should be checked by a bimanual examination, which, though of little value as a precise measure- ment, will give a fairly accurate indication as to increase in size. (b) Anatomical Features.—Our knowledge of the anatomy of the uterus during the puerperium is mainly based on observations of frozen sections made by the following authorities :— 1. Stratz (1886), I-para, 1 hour after delivery. 2. Barbour and Webster (1891), multipara, im- mediately after delivery. 3. Barbour (1888), I-para, 1| hours after delivery. 4. Webster (1892), multipara, 2nd day after delivery. 5. Webster (1892), multipara, 3rd day after de- livery. 6. Varnier (1900), (?), 3rd day after delivery. 7. Varnier (1900), (?), 3rd day after delivery. 8. Webster (1892), multipara, 4| days after delivery. 9. Barbour (1888), I-para, 5|- days after delivery. 10. Webster (1892), multipara, 6 days after delivery. 11. Webster (1892), multipara, 15 days after delivery. The following description is based on the work of these authors. i. Macroscopical Characters. — Immediately after delivery the uterus consists of a firmer thick-walled upper portion and a lower flaccid thin-walled portion. The transition between the two portions is sharply defined on the anterior wall, but more gradual on the posterior wall. The line of union of the upper and lower portions represents a retraction ring, which is not that of labour, but is nearer the cervix, part of the lower segment having been taken up into it. The cervix is thick, flattened verti- cally, and partly everted; the os internum can- not be defined, even microscopically. The whole organ measures about 8 inches in length and 3^ inches antero-posteriorly; the cavity measures 7 inches. The weight is about 3J lbs. (Varnier). The softness of the lower segment causes it to lie in a somewhat crumpled-up con- dition ; the whole uterus is anteverted, but not anteflexed. The thickness of the walls of the upper segment is about 1^- inches anteriorly and posteriorly, and about 1 inch at the fundus ; in the flaccid portion the anterior wall is about \ an inch and the posterior f of an inch in thickness. The peritoneum has a firm attachment on the posterior aspect of the uterus ; but anteriorly it can be stripped up to a "line of firm attachment" which has a posi- tion varying from 2 to 4'8 inches above the anterior lip (Barbour). When the uterus is laid open it presents a pear-shaped inner surface, which consists above of an oval area 7 inches traversely and 5^ inches from above down. This passes below into a band 4 inches wide and 2 inches vertically. The band is the opened-out cervix; it is of a bluish-red colour (due to ecchymoses) and com- paratively smooth, save for the branches and stem of the arbor vitse. The oval upper area consists of two parts—a ragged and dark purple patch, about one-sixth of the whole in size, surrounded by a brick-red surface mottled with numerous tags. The former is the placental site, the latter the decidua-covered part of the uterus (Barbour). The uterus is still abdominal on the fourth day, and on the sixth is just within the brim at the conjugate. The vertical measurements are thus summarised:— Cases. Cervix. Body. Whole Uterus. Cavity. 2nd day 2| inch 4J inch 7i- inch 6J inch 3rd ,, 2 ,, 4.3 61 „ 5§ „ 4th ,, 2 „ H ., 7i „ 6i „ 6th ,, li „ H „ H „ ^ 15th ,, n „ 3S „ There is but little diminution in size for the first four days. On section there is the appear- ance of contracted and ansemic non - striped muscle, without any naked-eye appearance of fatty degeneration. The post-partum uterus acts as a plug in the pelvis. The ovarian and uterine arteries are twisted and compressed by the uterus against the pelvic wall; the uterus