PUERPERIUM, PATHOLOGY OF 367 Pathological Anatomy.—The left heart is most affected ; there are deposits on the mitral and occasionally upon the aortic valves. The myo- cardium is full of small abscesses, and the endo- cardium is infected with colonies of bacteria; the endocardium and valves are frequently ulcerated. A number of minute abscesses are foimd in the kidneys, and there is often sup- purative meningitis and abscesses in the brain. The Prognosis is absolutely bad. Phlegmasia alba dolbns (white leg, or milk leg).—There are two distinct varieties of this condition. In one a cellulitis extends down the thigh, in the other there is thrombosis of the veins with consequent oedema; but many authorities limit the term phlegmasia alba dolens to the cellulitic variety. Symptoms.—Usually during the second week the patient complains of pain in the affected leg followed by swelling. In the phlebothrombotic form the pain and tenderness are confined to the course of the veins, and the swelling com- mences in the foot and spreads upwards ; in the cellulitic variety the swelling commences in the thigh and extends downwards. The con- dition is attended in all septic cases by fever and constitutional disturbance, foul tongue, loss of appetite, vomiting, and restlessness. Prognosis is fairly good in most cases; a com- pensatory circulation is established, but this is sometimes imperfect, so that the limb remains permanently enlarged. In some cases abscess forms and may lead to pysemia; or a portion of clot may be displaced, carried to the heart, and obstruct the pulmonary artery. Prophylaxis and Treatment.—The former of these is by far the more important. Author- ities are generally agreed as to its main features and differ only on minor details, whereas in treatment there is hardly a point upon which all authorities agree. The years 1870 and 1880 mark two important eras in the prophylaxis of puerperal infection. In the former year the antiseptic method was generally employed. The patient was regarded as more or less an infected individual, and efforts were made to purify her by douching and various other anti- septic measures. But about 1880 this view was changed, and it became generally recognised that, in the vast majority of cases at least, there was no infective matter to be removed, and that all our efforts should be directed towards pre- venting its entrance; this is now known as the aseptic method. There is no doubt that septic infection is most frequently carried to the patient by her attendants, and especially by their hands. This was taught by Semmelweis and Sir James Simpson; and Leopold has clearly proved that patients who have delivered themselves without any vaginal interference, make better recoveries than those who have been examined, even with the most scrupulous antiseptic precautions. We should therefore (1) confine local interference within the narrowest bounds ; (2) avoid as far as possible septic contamination; (3) spare no pains to render our hands as innoxious as possible. The attendants should be most care- ful of their hands; and should a practitioner be called upon to attend patients with infectious diseases or septic and putrid discharges, he should be careful, as far as possible, to avoid contamination ; and much may be done in this way by using forceps or rubber film gloves. The niirse who has to wash away putrid lochia or foul discharges should be instructed how to do so without soiling her fingers. Asepsis is, however, best maintained by sub- stituting, as far as possible, external for in- ternal manipulations. In 1888 Crede wrote as follows: " Even the simplest manipulations may cause infection. It should therefore be laid down and taught as a fundamental principle, that internal examination of parturient women should be altogether avoided, or restricted with- in the narrowest possible limits; it can be very well replaced by external examination. To in- struct their pupils as thoroughly as possible in this method is the present and future duty of teaching institutions." Internal examinations are, however, occasionally necessary, but the practitioner should remember that such examin- ations are never altogether devoid of risk, and before resorting to them he should be fully per- suaded in his own mind as to the necessity, and he should spare no pains to render his hands as aseptic as possible. This he does in two ways : firstly, by mechanically cleansing the skin with soap, hot water, and a nail-brush ; and, secondly, by using some chemical substance to destroy, or at least limit the procreative powers of the micro-organisms in the skin. Of the latter agents alcohol is probably the best, and next to it bichloride or biniodide of mercury. Carbolic acid, chinosol, creolin, and lysol are much em- ployed, but are inferior to the former in bacteri- cidal power. An antiseptic for use in ordinary midwifery practice must not only be efficient, it must also be portable, easily prepared, and not too costly; and all these requirements are fulfilled by corrosive sublimate, which is easily carried in tabloid form. Besides their hands, the attendants should observe the strictest clean- liness in their persons and clothing. With re- gard to the former, not only are the ordinary rules of cleanliness to be observed, but an indi- vidual who is suffering from a purulent nasal, oral, or other discharge, or carious teeth, should not attend women in their confinements. As regards clothing, most nurses now wear clean dresses and aprons fresh from the laundry. But it is not easy for a busy practitioner to provide garments of similar materials ; he can, however, remove his coat, turn up his shirt-sleeves, and pin a clean towel in front so as to act as an apron.