209 POST-MOKTEM METHODS congestion is noticed as distinct injection of the delicate vessels covering the convolutions. Removal of the Brain.—-Cut across the attach- ment of the falx cerebri to the crista galli of the ethmoid. Then insinuate the fingers of the left hand underneath the frontal lobes, and lift them up from the orbital plates. Detach the olfactory nerves from the cribriform plates with the handle of the curved probe-pointed bistoury, and then, still raising and supporting the brain, cut across the cranial nerves, the carotid arteries, and the infundibulum as far from the brain as possible. After dividing the fifth nerves, turn the brain to one side, so as to expose the ten- torium cerebelli, which is to be cut through from before backwards, close to its margin. Repeat this on the other side. Divide the remaining cranial nerves and the vertebral arteries ; then, supporting the brain with the left hand, or calvarium, gently lever up the spinal cord, which, if not already cut across, should be divided as low as possible, and remove the whole, separating it from the dura. Weigh the brain. In the adult male the average weight is 3 lbs. 1| oz.; in the female it is about one pound less. Examine the base of the skull for haemorrhage, intra- or extra-dural; abnormal prominences— osseous, cartilaginous, or fibrous; localised suppurations or adhesions, especially in the neighbourhood of the petrous bones, and note their relationship to internal or middle ear. Note any obvious morbid change in the cranial nerves. Split up the remaining sinuses and note presence of thrombosis, simple or purulent, particularly in the lateral sinuses, where it may be caused by mastoid disease, and may be attended with cerebellar abscess. In acromegaly or myxoedema examine carefully the pituitary body. Remove the dura and examine the base for fractures. If the orbits or nasal passages and adnexa are to be examined, the portions of the base covering these must be mapped out and removed with the chisel and mallet. Examination of the Brain. — If accurate localisation of a lesion be desired, the vessels of the brain should be injected with strong formalin solution, and the brain laid in a similar solution for about a week to harden. In most cases the brain may be examined at once. In the first place, examine the base. Note variation in the arrangement of the basal vessels, and atheroma or calcification of their walls. Look for thickening of the membranes by fibrous tissue, or for the presence of lymph in the mem- branes veiling the structures at the base. In tubercular meningitis the membranes con- tain greenish gelatinous lymph, as far forward as and covering the optic chiasma, and in removing the brain from the skull a large amount of VOL. VIII turbid fluid escapes from the subarachnoid space. On opening up the Sylvian and longi- tudinal fissures, tubercles—little grey or yellow points—are seen along the vessels. These may also extend up over the Rolandic areas, and back over the surfaces of the cerebellum, pons, and medulla. They rarely extend up to the vertex. The lymph may block the foramen of Magendie, and the ventricles be dilated—the so- called " acute hydrocephalus." In 2}osterior basic meningitis—which is usually in reality cerebro-spinal—a somewhat similar but yellower effusion is present at the base, ex- tending from the infundibulum backwards over the anterior part of the under surface of the cerebellum, and over the pons, medulla, and spinal cord. The foramen of Magendie is prac- tically always blocked in this condition, and necessarily the ventricles are dilated. " Chronic hydrocephalus" is caused by the blocking of this foramen by a fibrous membrane produced by such a meningitis. The ventricles may be so distended as to reduce the brain to a thin-walled cyst, and the third ventricle projects at the base as a translucent, rounded swelling, stretching the optic chiasma over it. In general suppurative arachnoiditis the whole brain is covered with a layer of pus or purulent lymph, which may be both internal to and external to the arachnoid. In all cases of lepto-meningitis the arachnoid becomes milky. Note the presence of hsemorrhages on the surface, laceration or softening of the cortex, presence of scars, for example, over gummata, and localise them accurately. Superficial softening most often occurs in the area supplied by the middle cerebral artery. In cases of softening, whether internal or cortical, slit up the arteries concerned, and seek for thrombosis or embolism. These are most frequently found at the origin of the Sylvian ai'tery or its first branch, especially on the left side. Next examine the interior of the brain. Lay it with the base upwards. Remove the cerebellum, pons, and medulla. Make several incisions into the cerebellum, then separate it from the pons by cutting across its peduncles. Note the condition of the fourth ventricle, and make transverse sections of the pons and medulla, leaving the sections connected in front by the membranes. Turn the brain vertex upwards, and examine by horizontal slices, cutting from within out- wards through the hemispheres, and leaving each slice attached to its neighbours by the membranes on the outer surface. The centrum ovale may be soft and (Edematous, or show numerous small points of congestion. On reaching the level of the corpus callosum make a vertical sagittal incision for half an inch into the white matter about half an inch from 14