RHEUMATISM, ACUTE 544 disappear and sweating cease. Later, delirium, coma, muscular tremors, and involuntary evacu- ations occur, and death may follow general convulsions. The temperature may rise with extreme rapidity, or after maintaining a high level for some days suddenly rise beyond the limits of safety. The condition is always one of extreme danger, and one which requires prompt and decisive treatment. Angina Faucium.—There is no characteristic sore throat, but the most common type is probably the one described by Fernet, and quoted by Dr. A. E. Garrod in his treatise on rheumatism: " A diffuse erythematous redness is seen to occupy the whole of the back of the throat, and some oedematous swelling of the mucous membrane is present, which is most marked about the uvula, which is swollen and elongated. The pharynx is moist and free from all exudation ; one or both tonsils may present more or less considerable swelling." The throat is one path of infection, but it would be unwise to claim it as the only one; at the same time, if inflammation is to be looked upon as an effort of resistance, it may be well to point out the possibility of a virulent infection by this channel without the occurrence of pain and inflamma- tion. Such an occurrence in other infections— puerperal fever, for example — is thoroughly recognised. The infection may be terribly virulent, but local changes practically absent. Peritonitis.—When we consider the frequency of pericarditis and pleurisy, it is interesting to find the rarity of peritonitis ; but though rare, the occurrence is undoubted, and with the other symptoms of this condition loud peritoneal friction may be occasionally heard. Acute dilatation of the stomach may follow rheumatic fever, and the digestion is often enfeebled for some time after a prolonged attack. Appendicitis has been traced to rheumatic fever, and among others Dr. Burney Yeo, Dr. Sutherland, and Dr. Beverley Robinson have supported this view. It is very difiicult to trace a definite connection between these dis- eases, and the subject is the more difficult because there sometimes arises in connection with appendicitis a septic arthritis which may closely resemble the arthritis of rheumatism. Renal Affections.—Nephritis, though not common, has been observed by competent authorities, and it is very probable that the kidneys are often damaged by repeated attacks of rheumatic fever, without that damage reach- ing the stage of an actual nephritis. Rheumatic fever may in this way assist in the production of that condition recognised in later life as "granular kidney." Albuminuria sometimes occurs, and, if there is infarction, hsematuria. Hsematuria may also occur without any evidence of infarction in some malignant types of the disease to which Professor Litten has especially directed attention. Subcutaneous Nodules.—Subcutaneous nodules sometimes occur in adults over the bony promi- nences and along the sheaths of tendons. In some seasons these nodules are far more common than in others, and it is then they are most liable to be found in adults, and it is then also they may occur without severe cai'diac disease, which, as Dr. W. B. Cheadle has insisted, is the usual accompaniment. Myalgia may be a troublesome symptom in an attack of rheumatic fever, when the joints in the proximity of the muscles show no signs of inflammation. Cutaneous Manifestations.—Although much clinical information has been obtained upon the skin affections, there is still a good deal of obscurity around the subject, on account of the difficulty in determining which of these lesions are truly rheumatic. Among the acute affections the erythemata and purpura are well recognised, and if some forms of psoriasis and scleroderma are accepted as rheumatic, these would represent skin affec- tions of the more chronic type. The erythemata are classified according to their characters as erythema, marginatum, papulatum, bullosum, and nodosum. The first two are also included under the term erythema multiforme. The marginate form appears in circles of various sizes, often called by the patient "ring- worms," the dull pink colour of which quickly changes in the centre to a livid hue. The circles often coalesce, and thus are formed gyrate patterns which fade and leave a dull stain. In association with these forms of ery- thema, purpura is not uncommon, and occasion- ally a subcutaneous nodule appears in the centre of a patch. In the papular forms the areas are raised, usually symmetrical, and often show a slight bruising. These eruptions, except for some smarting, give rise to little discomfort. In rare cases there is extensive purpura without the occurrence of haemorrhages from the mucous surfaces, and sometimes large sanious bullae may be formed. If the process be closely watched, erythema is found to precede this purpuric condition, but the change is rapid and very complete. When these stages are passed through very rapidly, and there is active rheu- matism as well, that condition of purpura results which may be truly called rheumatic, but there are other forms of purpura associated with arthritis which it is difficult to feel confi- dent are truly rheumatic. Erythema nodosum is a remarkable affection, in which intensely tender nodes appear most usually over the shins, but also over the fore- arms, thighs, and elsewhere. At first they are a bright pink colour, later they are a dull red, and may pit on pressure, and finally they leave