581 RHEUMATISM, CHRONIC intestinal function should be promoted by the administration of a laxative diet and judicious use of aperients. If the bowels move naturally every day all that is advisable is the administra- tion of a small blue pill, followed by a morning saline once in ten days or so. If further treat- ment is indicated, as is usually the case, then the selection of a suitable aperient is the next point to be attended to. The best is perhaps the judicious combination of vegetable aperients, e.g. aloin, euonymin, with occasional saline. But in connection with these points we should remember that the constipation is more likely to be indirectly improved by the physical treat- ment later referred to. The aperients are merely adjuvants. In many cases there is marked foetor of stools, a fact of considerable significance, calling for appropriate dietetic and medicinal treatment. Renal Function.—The renal function is to be favoured by the patient drinking more fluid than is his wont. Tlie best fluids are water and alkaline drinks. These are preferably taken on an empty stomach, the amount varying from about one pint more than his usual. We some- times find that the patient ncA'er drinks any- thing except at meal hours, when the fluid taken is therapeutically not so beneficial as those just mentioned. The skin function is best promoted by hydro- therapeutic measures, which must in every case be adapted to the strength of the patient. Above all, excess in this direction is to be avoided (see " Balneology," vol. i.). For con- venient use at home, one of the numerous bath cabinets now in vogue can be recommended; these require judgment and care in their use. By the foregoing we may hope gradually to eliminate some, at least, of the toxic ingredients in the system in these cases, and we now pass to consider the means to be adopted in order to prevent further ingestion of substances likely to be injurious to tlie organism. Physical Therapeutics.—^Having discovered so far as possible what joints, muscles, tendons, or nerves are specially implicated, due attention must be paid to the affected parts. One pre- caution is specially important. The practitioner must be fully satisfied that the assistant whom he employs for this purpose has had a really expert training in his profession, and not merely a few months' fragmentary education. Assist- ants of the latter type often do more harm than good, and their extensive employment is one of the reasons why treatment by manipulation, massage, etc., has not its due place in thera- peutics. Diet.—-If the bowels are thoroughly attended to, many cases require no dietetic treatment, provided the diet taken is an ordinary one. In many cases the patient is aware that certain articles of diet affect the rheumatism imfavour- ably, and the use of such foods or drinks should be avoided or restricted. Nature is the best guide in these matters. Some rheumatic sub- jects keep themselves comparatively free by a vegetai'ian diet. Our present knowledge of the etiology of rheumatic afl:ections does not allow of any hard and fast rules re diet. The follow- ing are suggested by clinical experience :— (i.) The diet should be a simple one, taken at regular intervals and eaten slowly. When the digestion is good and the appetite strong, a large amount of food may be taken, provided it be of a simple nature. (ii.) The articles of food and drink which patients consider detrimental to themselves should be withheld or given in sparing amount. Their nature may give a clue to the direction of faulty metabolism and assimilation. In this connection it is well to note the periodical nature of the symptoms, e.g. the recurrence of rheumatic symptoms at the fruit season. (iii.) More fluid should be drunk. Most rheumatic subjects drink too little water. The writer lately saw a stout lady much aff"ected with chronic rheumatism. Investigation elicited the fact that she never drank anything except a little tea twice or thrice daily, and a little whisky and water at night. The total urine was collected for three successive days, and was as follows:—8, 14, and 10 oz., of a non- albuminous urine of average sp. gr. 1015. The patient avowed that this was her usual habit, and it is probable that many rheumatic subjects suffer from this anuria in varying degrees. (iv.) If the patient can furnish no indications as to diet, the best plan will be—{a) simplify the food by cutting off some of the unnecessary ingredients in the daily diet; and if that is insufficient, (6) restrict the carbohydrates, e.g. sweets of all kinds, potatoes, and other under- ground roots, and all puddings of a " stodgy" nature. A few cases may do better on a more strictly nitrogenous diet. Medicinal Treatment.—Medicines are useful, but should occupy a subordinate place. A blue pill occasionally, with free use of alkaline and mineral waters, is a valuable line of treatment, which probably acts mainly by improving the conditions of the gastro-intestinal, hepatic, and renal functions. The old-time remedies of sulphur—internally and externally—and guai- acum are also very serviceable. Salol, sali- cylate of soda, and the like remedies are of service in some cases, and a judicious combina- tion of these with other remedies possessing some intestinal disinfectant action are materi- ally useful in some cases. The same can be said of the internal administration of iodide of potassium, and the internal and external use of various fir oils (see also "Balneology," vol. i., and "Gout," vol. iii.). Rheuina,tO-.—in compound words rheu- mato- means rheumatic or relating to rheuma-