102 PIGMENTS OF THE BODY AND EXCRETA bacillus pyocyaneus, and which occasionally im- parts to pus a green colour. In the present article it has only been possible to give a mere outline of the subject of the pigmentation of the human tissues and excreta, and the limits of space have precluded more than incidental reference to the colouring matters of the lower animals, which present many problems of great interest. Of some of these pigments copper is an essential constituent, as, for example, hsemocyanin, the respiratory pigment of the blood of some Crustacea and molluscs. Turacin, the red pigment of the wing-feathers of the touracos, is another copper- containing pigment of much interest. Its properties and composition have been investi- gated by Professor Church, and, as has been already mentioned, by the action of sulphuric acid upon it a product called turacoporphyrin is obtained, which, in its spectroscopic features, bears the closest resemblance to heematopor- phyrin. Pigrnentum.—in Pharmacy pigmentum is the name given to a preparation which is meant to be painted on the skin or on a mucous membrane. PigfOdidymuS.—A teratological type in which two foetuses are united by the gluteal regions. Pig's. See Anthrax {In the Loxver Animals); Rheumatism, Chronic {Comparative Pathology, Pigs). PigStyeS.—According to Sanitary Law (L.G.B. Model By-Laws) swine must not be kept within, say, 100 feet of any dwelling, and care must be taken that water for drinking or dairy purposes or for manufacturing drinks be not contaminated by them. According to the Public Health (Scotland) Act of 1897, the Local Authority may make by-laws regarding the construction, situation, and mode of cleans- ing of pigstyes. Piles. See Rectum, Diseases of {Hmmor- rhoids). See also Haemorrhoids and Cross References; Hydropathy {Subacute and Chronic Diseases, Piles, Ascendirig Douche); Liver, Diseases of {Functional Disease, Piles). PiilSirS.—The name given, in Anatomy, to supporting structures or columns, such as the pillars of the diaphragm, abdominal ring, fauces, and fornix. Pills or Pilulae. See Prescribing {Methods of Administering Drugs, by the Mouth). See also under the various drugs, e.g. Aloes, Ferrum, Mercury, etc. PilO-.—In compound words pilo- (Lat. pilus, a hair) means relating to hair; e.g. pilo- motor (producing movement of hairs), pilocystic (of the nature of a dermoid cyst), pilose (hairy). PilOCa.rpine> See Jaborandi; Alka- loids ; Glaucoma {Treatment, Myotics); Physi- ology, Excretion {Sweat Secretion); Toxicology {Alkaloids and Vegetable Poisons, Pilocarpine). Pilonid£ll«—Serving as a nest {nidus) for the accumulation of hairs, e.g. in a cyst or fistula. Pilosis.—Abnormal development of hair. See HiRSUTiES. Pi marie Acid.—An acid resin, CggHg^Og, contained in the turpentine of Pinus 7naritima. PimelO.—In compound words pimelo- (Gr. ■jrifj-ekr], fat) means fatty ; e.g. pimeloma (a fatty tumour), pimelorrhoea (a fatty discharge), and pimeluria (fat in the urine). Pimenta,.— Pimento is the unripe fruit of Pimenta officinalis, the all-spice tree; it contains a volatile oil {Oleum Pimento;) which contains eugenol, and is given in doses of ^ to 3 m. ; there is an Aqua Pirnentce (dose, 1 to 2 fl. oz.); pimento has the same pharmacology and therapeutics as cloves. Pinard'S Sign.—Pain on pressure over the fundus uteri during the last three months of pregnancy is said frequently to indicate a breech presentation. Pineal Body or Gland. See Brain, Physiology of.—The pineal gland is a small, fir-cone-shaped body which lies on the dorsal aspect of the mesencephalon between the two upper corpora quadrigemina; it has a hollow peduncle and consists of rounded and tubular follicles; it is a rudimentary structure in man, but in some vertebrates it is more highly developed and resembles in them an invertebrate eye (pineal eye). A pineal tumour causes symptoms. See Auditory Nerve {Diagnosis of Nerve Deafness). Pinene. — A hydrocarbon (CioHj^) or terpene found in the oil of turpentine and other oils. Pine Oil.—Pine oil or Oleum Pini is obtained from Pinus pumilio, and is known also as pinol: it produces the same effects as oil of turpentine {vide Turpentine), and is used as an inhalation in laryngitis, bronchitis, etc.; it has been recommended also in rheumatism and tuberculosis. Pineoline.—A proprietary preparation, used externally in skin diseases, and said to contain pine oil combined with vaseline and lanoline.