PLAGUE 124 disease. (6) Sex has no influence except that if the patient is pregnant she usually aborts or is prematurely confined, with nearly always fatal results to the mother and child. (7) The stamina of the patient has an influence, though often absolutely healthy persons contract the disease and die in a few hours. (8) Haffkine's prophylactic influences the disease greatly, rendering the type of the disease as a rule mild. (9) Co-existing diseases, such as tuberculosis, may make great advances in convalescence, and the patient may succumb to acute phthisis. (10) Other points to be noted are—the character of the heart and pulse ; obstinate vomiting ; early diarrhoea; brain symptoms, such as long-con- tinued sleeplessness, delirium, and coma; hsemor- rhages : all these are bad signs. The presence of the bacillus in the blood points to septic£emia and approaching death. If the patient survive the first week of his attack the prognosis becomes more favourable. Early hospital treatment gives the patient his best chance of recovery. 9. Treatment.—(a) Symptomatic; (b) Antitoxic (a) Sympt07)iatic treatment is the chief line to be taken. The general management of the case consists in rest in bed, in the recumbent attitude, for at least ten to fourteen days, the patient being on no account permitted to get out of bed. A sufficient supply of nurses should be provided, as a patient during the acute stage should never be out of sight of an attendant. After ten to fourteen days the patient may get up gradually, the condition of the heart and piilse being carefully watched, and provided no complications arise. The patient should be kept in cool and well-ventilated surroundings. Every case should be treated in hospital, not only to control infection as far as possible, but also because of the importance of trained nursing and prompt medical assistance in the sudden emergencies which may at any moment arise. As regards the diet, it should be light and nourishing. Milk, beef-tea, sovips, and beaten- up eggs are permissible while the temperature remains high. Then ordinary light diet should be given. In cases of obstinate vomiting, rectal feeding (peptonised milk 2 to 4 oz. in children, given four - hourly) must be employed, the quantity being cautiously increased. If vomiting persists, and even water cannot be retained by the stomach, it is necessary to give " water- feeds" of 3 or 4 ounces, per rectum, about an hour before the milk-feeds. The rectum must be washed out with tepid water every twenty- four hours while this feeding is being carried on. The feeds are best given by a funnel and tubing with a soft catheter inserted in the rectum. Stimulants, though frequently necessary, should not be exhibited without due cause. The chief symptom calling for stimidants is heart failure and continued high fever. Brandy, if necessary, should be administered by the mouth. In cases where vomiting is absent it is best given as egg-flip, provided the patient can retain and digest it. In cases of collapse, hot brandy and water, hot bottles and blankets, are efficacious. Brandy should not be given per rectum unless absolutely necessary, for it is apt to set up irritation which may render rectal feeding impossible. In cases where vomiting is present champagne should be tried. Strychnine should be given by the mouth alone, or with digitalis as a cardiac stimulant, as indi- cated by the state of the pulse and heart. But its chief use lies in its hypodermic administration to cases suffering from cardiac depression or sudden heart failure. Here it may be given in doses of 5-10 trt every hour, or less frequently, but the patient should be watched carefully ito see that no symptoms of poisoning occur. It is surprising, however, the toleration these cases have for strychnine. It is impossible to give definite instructions on this point, as each case must be judged on its own merits, but strych- nine is the sheet-anchor of our treatment of plague. In septicsemic and pneumonic plague a few minims of this drug must be administered every few hours, hypodermically if necessary. Ammonium carbonate is an excellent stimulant, especially in pneumonic cases. Ether is very useful in sudden collapse on account of its prompt effect. The nurse must be instructed to give hypodermic injections of ether and strychnine promptly in cases of collapse, as any delay may be fatal. Restlessness, sleeplessness, and continued high fever should be treated with cold sponging and packs, but in children restlessness is often found to be controlled by hot sponging. Phenacetin and antipyrin should not be used, but grain of hyoscine, or -I to ^ grain of morphine, may be necessary in some cases. Vomiting should be treated by hot applica- tions, turpentine stupes, or a blister to the epigastrium. Hydrocyanic acid is frequently efficacious, and often sucking ice gives relief. The bowels should be kept open by enemata rather than by drugs, but 5 to 10 grains of calomel, if necessary, should be given at the onset of the attack. Diarrhoea should be con- trolled by 10 grains of salol or a starch and opium enema. The hihbo should be treated with hot fomenta- tions, lead and opium, or glycerine and bella- donna applications to relieve pain, and should be treated, if it suppurates, on the ordinary lines of dealing with abscesses. The eye, joint, and other surgical complications should be treated in the usual manner. {b) Antitoxic Treatment.—With regard to the serum treatment of the disease, the subcutaneous injection of Yersin's serum has not yet been proved to have served much curative purpose, possibly on account of cases not coming under