PULSE but it is also controlled in an important manner by means of nerves. The regulating influences of the vagus and accelerator must not be for- gotten in this connection, and the intrinsic ganglia are equally important. Thus we may include the nerves of the heart among the factors of the pulse, and we find certain types of pulse irregularity which are due entirely to their effects. The state of the arterial walls will clearly affect the character of the pulse, and this is important both with regard to degenerative or hypertrophic changes and also in relation to the condition of spasm, which may be excited by the abnormal contents of the vessels. Various states of toxfemia may induce this temporary condition of arterial spasm, which is accompanied by a general diminution in the calibre of the arteries during the time that the toxic substance is exerting its effects. Coincidently there is a marked alteration in the pulse. Among the factors of the pulse, then, we may also include the blood. Its impaired quality will lead to conditions of arterial spasm ; and, if the toxaemia be long enough continued, a permanent altera- tion may be produced in the walls of the arteries. The elasticity of the large arteries is a factor upon which the character of the pulse largely depends. By virtue of their elasticity the arteries always exert some compression on their contents, and this is so, even during the diastole of the ventricles. At each systole some disten- sion of the larger vessels occurs, and thus the force of the heart is, so to speak, stored up, and its energy is gradually, instead of quickly, ex- pended. It is otherwise when the vessels have become rigid from disease, whereby the func- tions of their elastic coats are seriously impaired. Thus the factors concerned in the production of the pulse in the child and in the old man re- spectively differ greatly, and for this reason one cannot compare the characters of the pulse at these periods of life. The inelastic artery of old age has a limited capacity of storing up the force of the left ventricle. The state of the arterioles with regard to their permeability to the flow of blood must, of course, affect the character of the pulse by determining the rapidity of the outflow of blood from the larger arterial tubes. We also recos:- nise that certam sections of the arteriole field may contract or dilate from various causes, and we must not forget that the vessels of the splanchnic area, by becoming fully dilated, may empty the arterial system and thus give rise to a pulse of extremely small volume at the wrist. Therefore we cannot draw reliable deductions from the volume of a pulse, unless we take the condition of the other factors concerned fully into consideration. Shortly before death, more especially in cases where the cardiac muscle is in good condition, 1, THE 389 one is repeatedly struck with the large volume, and sometimes with the good pressure, of the pulse. Such a pulse may mislead us as to the fatal issue. An abnormally relaxed state of the arteries along with a feeble left ventricle will give the same kind of impression to the finger as that given by a strong ventricle acting against a normal peripheral resistance. If the blood pressure be fairly good, we must remember that the dying heart is working at its highest pressure, while that of the strong, healthy in- dividual has a considerable reserve power to fall back upon. In some instances the blood pres- sure maintained by the heart shortly before death may be said to be relatively high. Examination of the Pulse by Means of the Sfhygmograph The only accurate method of recording the pulse is by means of the sphygmograph. Space will not allow of a description of the different forms of sphygmograph, and for a concise state- ment of these the reader is referred to Dudgeon's excellent treatise. Sphygmography has been in turn recklessly extolled and unduly de- preciated. Those who assert that the sphygmo- graph is devoid of practical usefulness, and that it can be made to register any form of pulse- curve suitable to the occasion, simply exhibit their entire want of knowledge as to how the in- strument should be employed. Such opinions belong either to those who are devoid of all mechanical skill, or to those who have not shown sufficient perseverance in mastering cer- tain important details which can only be ac- quired after fairly long experience. With more perfect instruments the ti-acings would be more reliable, and probably a more skilled interpreta- tion of the results is desirable. But the writer is convinced that much more can be learnt by the use of the sphygmograph than is generally believed. While the character of the pulse alone is not a safe guide to enable one to form conclusions in certain diseased conditions, still it will often afford indications of the utmost value bearing upon prognosis and treatment. Dudgeon's sphygmograph is the one most in use in this country, and it is the only one which can be satisfactorily used in young children. If it be applied in the manner about to be described, most admirable and useful tracings can be obtained. The instrument must be a thoroughly good one ; and I give this caution, because several which I have examined are of inferior workmanship, and quite unsuited for the pui'pose. The writing needle, which should be finely pointed, must swing evenly and easily, and the inelastic strap which fixes the instru- ment to the wrist must be replaced by pieces of elastic band. This simple modification im- mensely simplifies the process of obtaining successful ti'acings, for the instrument is very readily applied by tying the two pieces of