410 PULSE, THE (Fig. 64). It may occur also in older children who suffer from advanced cardiac disease. This is the same form of irregvilarity as Cushny de- Fig. 63.—Pulse of child a;t. 4^ years. E, The duration of the period of ventricular systole is regular; G, the duration of the period of ventricular diastole is variable. (Mackenzie's classification). scribes under the head of false ventricular intermission (Fig. 65). According to Mackenzie's classification, then, we find that practically all the pulse irregulari- ties met with in children fall into the first group, while the commonest type of adult irregu- larity belongs to the second group. Such a method of classification has done much to simplify the study of this interesting- subject, but there are irregularity in children received no attention tolic periods is much the most constant feature, while very frequently the diastolic periods are of uneqvMl length (Figs. 66 and 67). In the very rapid pulse the duration of the ventricular systole is not much shortened; it is at the expense of the diastolic period that things are balanced. Thus we can under- stand that when a child's pulse is very fast the diastolic phases tend to shorten, and hence this type of irregularity disappears more or less entirely. In a tracing of a very rapid pulse one can •' Youthful type of irregularity " Fig. 65.—The duration of the period of ventricular systole is variable—the upper tracing is a cardiographic record. "Adult type of irregularity" (Mackenzie's classification). This is the " false ventricular intermission " of Cushny. many kinds of pulse which have hitherto Respiration is a most Fig. 64.—"Adult type of irregul.arity " (false ventricular intermission) occurring in a child fct. 2 years during the course of a mild croupous pneumonia. (Mackenzie's classification.) important factor in the production of some of these. The Characteristic Type of Pulse Irregularity in the Child.—All children at some time or other exhibit a form of pulse irregularity. When a tracing is taken the precise nature of the irregularity is well shown, and it is found that the systolic portions of the pulse-curves are regular in their duration. If we measure with a pair of compasses from the middle of the up-stroke to the dicrotic notch, we find the length about the same in all the curves. If we measure in a similar manner from the dicrotic notch to the commencement of another up-stroke, we find the distances to vary consider- ably. In the child's pulse, then, as Mackenzie first pointed out, the equal duration of the sys- easily observe the relatively greater duration of the systolic portions of the curves, and the diastolic portions are reduced to a minimum. The converse of this is true, for when the rapid pulse begins to slow down again we generally find undue prolongation of the diastolic periods, and there is no very marked change in the duration of the sys- tolic periods. The pulse generally becomes slower during sleep, and then the occurrence of this kind of ir- regularity can often be noted. When the child ilili^^ FIG. 68.—The characteristic type of pulse irregularity in a child eet. 6 years, witli simultaneous tracing of respiration. Dunition of systoles {h.) are regular. Duration of diastoles(G) are variable. It may be noted that the irregularity is here independent of respiratory causes (see p. 411). wakes the pulse tends to become faster, and thus becomes more regular. The pulse of the new-born baby is, as a rule, very rapid, and irregularity of the kind mentioned is not usually