419 I agrees that the occurrence of the pulsus para- doxus may often be associated with pleuro-peri- cardiac adhesion, but he goes a step farther, and states that a weakening of the heart muscle, due to myocarditis or by effusion into the peri- cardium, has a share in bringing about this pulse depression. It is quite certain, however, that the causes already mentioned do not often come into play in the occurrence of this inspiratory variation of the pulse in children. Brockbank recognises the need of some other explanation to account for the pulsus paradoxus There are, however, certain special features and characteristics of the pulsus paradoxus, as seen in cases of mediastino-pericarditis, which distinguish it from the simple diminution of the pulse-wave which occurs so frequently in children with ordinary or slightly exaggerated inspiration under various other conditions. The writer believes it would be advisable to restrict the use of the term pulsus paradoxus exclusively to that type of pulse which occurs in well-marked cases of mediastino-pericarditis ; the term should not be applied to any other form of inspiratory diminution of the pulse-curve, how- ever marked it may be. Harris, in his admirable mono- graph on " Indur- ative Mediastino- Pericarditis," quotes from Schreiber, who re- gards the follow- ing peculiarities as distinctive of the true pulsus paradoxus :— (1) Marked diminution in the volume or com- plete disappearance of the pulse of all arteries, and not only of that of the radial vessels, during inspiration, and especially in the second half or at the end of that act. (2) The impossibility of replacing the para- doxical pulse by a full pulse by a prolonged and sustained inspiration. (3) The pulsus paradoxus does not require for its development the inspiration to be deep. (4) The pulse intermission is accompanied by a regular action of the heart, and the heart shows Fig. 92.—Inspiratory dimiiiutidii of the pulse-curves in a slight case of spasmodic asthma. (Identical in appearance with the true pulsus paradoxus of mediastino-pericarditis.) of acute laryngitis in children. In such cases he thinks it is to be found in the great variations of the intrathoracic pressure on the heart and great vessels in the chest cavity. Without going fully into the matter, it may be stated that difficulty in getting the air into the lungs is the key-note of his theory—the in-rushing air can- not enter fast enough to fill the expanding lungs. This means that the left ventricle has to pump its contents out of a vacuum into positive pressure. Explanation of the cotiinion Occurrence of this Pulse Pecidiarity in Children. — Brockbank's view may explain why this pulse peculiarity is of such frequent occur- rence in young children, even in normal condi- tions, because the larynx and trachea ar-e of rel- atively small size. He apparently does not re- cognise how common this inspiratory pulse diminution is, for he re- gards its occurrence in acute laryngitis as specially noteworthy. Extensive employment of the sphygmograph in children leads the writer to the conclusion that this pulse variation is almost invariably met with in all conditions of laboured breathing, whether fast or slow. Anything which causes obstruction to the entrance of air into the lungs during inspiration accentuates this pulse depression (Fig. 93). Its occurrence has been noted in children who were largely "mouth breathers," owing to enlarge- ment of the tonsils, or in those who were affected with adenoids. Personal experience would there- fore lead me to support such a theory as Brock- bank advances. I Fig. 93.—Slight degree of inspiratory pulse diminution in a child affected with adenoids. (5) No weakening of its action during the period whilst an inspiration is being made (four and five might, however, be modified in cases where there is, at the same time, endocarditis or myocai'ditis). In addition to the above-mentioned characters Schreiber mentions an associated symptom of great importance—inspiratory swelling of the cervical veins. Diminished Radial Calih'e d\iring Inspira- tion.—In some cases the kind of tracing obtained suggests that the calibre of the radial artery actually becomes smaller during deep inspiration. The pulse-curves during this period seem to in- dicate that the artery is contracted, and that its