PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 22 is a plexus of nerve cells and nerve fibres con- stituting the ganglion of the sinus (Remak's ganglion). 2nc?. In the inter-auricular septum a similar plexus constitutes the ganglion of the auricular septum. 37-d. In the auriculo-ventricular groove a plexus forms the auriculo-ventricular ganglion (Bidder's ganglion). With these intra-cardiac ganglia the terminations of the nerves to the heart form definite synapses. Nerve cells exist in the mammalian heart, but there is not the same differentiation into distinct groups. Nevertheless they are abundant round the mouths of the great veins, round the edges of the inter-auricular septum, and round the auriculo-ventricular groove. While there is no evidence that the nervous structures play an important part in starting or keeping up the contractions, there is evidence Fig. 127.—Scheme of the various chambers of the frog's heart and of the distribution of the Intra-cardiac nervous mechanism. that they exercise a checking or controlling- action. If the region between the sinus and auricles in the frog's heart is stimulated by the inter- rupted current from an induction coil, the heart is slowed or stopped. If atropine be first applied electric stimulation is without result. These experiments seem to indicate that there is in the heart a checMng mechani&m which may he stimulated by electricity, and ivhich is paralysed hy atropine. 4:th. Connections of the Heart with the Central Nervous System.—In the frog a branch from the vagus connects the central nervous system with the heart. When the branch is cut no eff'ect is produced, showing that it is not constantly in action; but when the lower end is stimulated, the heart is generally slowed or brought to a standstill. Sometimes the effect is not marked. The reason for this is that the cardiac bi'anch of the vagus in the frog is really a double nerve derived in part from the spinal accessory and in part from fibres which reach the vagus from the superior thoracic sympathetic ganglion. If the spinal accessory is stimulated, the heart is always slowed; and if the sympathetic fibres are stimulated, it is qiiickened. Generally stimulation of the cardiac branch containing these two sets of fibres simply gives the result of stimulating the former, but sometimes the stimulation of the latter masks this effect. In the mammal three sets of nerve fibres pass to the heart:— \st. The superior cardiac branch of the vagus starts from near the origin of the superior laryngeal nerve, and passes to the heart to end in the endocardium (Fig. 128, S.C.). 2nd. The inferior cardiac branch of the vagus leaves the main nerve near the recurrent laryn- geal, and passes to join the superficial cardiac plexus in the heart (Fig. 128, I.C.). drd. The sympathetic nerve fibres come from the superior thoracic and inferior cervical gan- glia, and also end in the superficial cardiac plexus (Fig. 128, S.). Functions of the Cardiac Nerves.— A. The Superior Cardiac Branch of the Vagus is an ingoing nerve. Section produces no effect; stimulation of the lower end causes no eff'ect; stimulation of the upper end causes slowing of the heart and a marked fall in the pressure of blood in the arteries, and it may cause pain. The slowing of the heart is a reflex effect through the inferior cardiac branch ; and the fall of blood pressure, which is the most manifest effect, is due to a reflex dilatation of the vessels of the abdomen, causing the blood to ac- cumulate there, and thus to lessen the pressure in the arteries generally. On account of its effect on the blood pres- sure, this nerve is called the depi-essor nei-ve. B. Inferior Cardiac Branch of Vagus.—Sec- tion of the vagus or of this branch causes ac- celeration of the action of the heart. The nerve is therefore constantly in action. Stimulation of its central end has no effect; stimulation of its peripheral end causes a slowing or stoppage of the heart. It is therefore the checking or inhibitory nerve of the heart. 1. Course of the Fibres.—These fibres leave the central nervous system by the spinal ac- cessory, and pass to the heart to form connec- tions with the cells of the cardiac plexuses. 2. Centre.—The fibres arise from a centre in the medulla oblongata, which can be stimulated to increased activity either directly or reflexly, (1) Direct stimulation is brought about by (a) sudden antemia of the brain, as when the arteries to the head are clamped or occluded; (6) increased venosity of the blood, as when respiration is interfered with ; (c) the concurrent action of the respiratory centre {see p. 43). (2) Reflex stimulation is produced through many nerves. In the rabbit stimulation of the 5th