96 PICA, OR DIRT-EATING and dirt off the boots of visitors, or in banging their heads against a wall, or in striking them with their hands. The most interesting forms of pica may at times be noted in children who cannot be classified as idiots or feeble-minded. In a minor degree an abnormal appetite may be seen in children who are suffering from chronic intestinal catarrh, or who perhaps suffer from worms. The appetite of such will be capricious and uncertain; they will refuse their food at meal- times, but when bathed at night will perhaps take a bite out of a cake of soap with the greatest relish. In the majority of cases dirt-eating is seen in children with abnormal nervous systems, their eccentricities cropping up in other ways besides in the way of relish for dirt, wall plaster, or the wool off blankets. There may be a tendency to masturbation, moral delinquencies, epileptiform convulsions, or marked perverseness or contrari- ness of character. The perverted appetite which delights in pushing pieces of slate-pencil up the nostrils, chewing blankets, and crunching cinders, is evidence of a neurosis which ought to put parents and teachers on their guard. While care and careful training will in a propor- tion of cases result in a more normal state of things, the dirt-eating neurosis marks a tendency to an unbalanced nervous system, which in later years may result in a complete breakdown. Picein.—-A glucoside (HJ8O7.H2O) obtained from the spruce fir {Picea excelsa). Pick's Bundle.—An abnormal bundle of nerve fibres in the central grey matter of the medulla oblongata; Henle-Pick's bundle. See A. Pick, Arch. f. Psychiat., xxi. 636, 1889-90; Nev/raxe, v. 151, 1903-4. PiCOiine.—An organic base or alkaloid (CqH^N) obtained from coal-tar; methyl- pyridine. PicramiC Acid.—Picric acid {q.v.) in which one NO., radicle has been replaced by NHg, giving the formula CgHjNjO-. Picric Acid. See also Burns and Scalds (Treatment, Local); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Alhuminuria Tests). — Trinitro- phenol. Made by dropping phenol into fuming nitric acid. It occurs as yellow crystals. It is soluble 1 in 95 of water and 1 in 10 of alcohol. Picric acid is used extensively in the treatment of burns. It relieves pain, prevents sepsis, and promotes cicatrisation. A watery solution is employed, made up as follows:— picric acid 3iss; absolute alcohol 3iii; distilled water 3x1. Pieces of gauze or lint are soaked in this and applied to the burned surface, and kept in position with wool and a bandage with- out the addition of any waterproof covering. The dressing should be removed in a few days by moistening the now dry gauze with the same solution, and then a similar dressing is applied again. If too large an area is treated with picric acid there is danger of general poisoning from absorption. Solutions and ointments of similar strength have been recommended for erysipelas, eczema, pruritus, and gonorrhoea. Esbach's reagent, used for the quantitative estimation of albumen in urine, contains picric acid and citric acid in water. A similar solution is said to give excellent results as an application to unbroken chilblains. Ammonium Picrate, in doses of | to IJ grains, has been used in the treatment of malaria and of exophthalmic goitre. Picrocarmine.—A staining agent used in histological investigations, containing carmine, ammonia, and picric acid. See Post-mortem Methods (Preparation of Tissues for the Micro- scope). Picroi..—An antiseptic preparation con- taining iodine; chemically it is potassium dicodoresorcinmonosulphate. Picrorlliza.—The rhizome of Picrorhiza Kurroa, used as a bitter tonic (dose, 10 to 20 grains) and antiperiodic (dose, 40 to 50 grains); it is officinal in the Indian and Colonial Addendum to the British Pharmacopoeia; and there are two preparations, the Extractum PicrorhizcB Liqxddum (dose, 20 to 60 m.), and the Tinctura Picrorhizce (dose, ^ to 1 fl. dr.). PicrotOXinum. — Picrotoxine is a neutral principle or glucoside obtained from Cocculus indicus (the fruit of Anajiiirta pani- culata or Indian fish-berry). See Cocculus Indicus. It is used externally (as an ointment) in cases of pediculosis for its antiparasitic action ; internally it has been given, in doses of to grain in pill, in epilepsy and in the night sweats of phthisis. It must be given with care, as it is a powerful poison. See Toxicology (^Alkaloids, Cocculus Indicus). Chemically, picrotoxine has been separated into pncrotoxine proper, CjjHj^O^.HoO (bitter and poisonous), iViio picrotin., C-jgHg^Ojo + JiH^O (bitter and non- poisonous), and into anamirtin, CJ9H24OJ2 (not bitter, and non - poisonous); but other views as to its chemical composition have been advanced. Piedra. See Skin Diseases of the Tropics (Piedra). Pietrapoia. See Balneology (France, Sulphur Waters, Corsica). Pigeon Breast. See Rickets (Clinical Features, Chest). See also Deformities (Rickets); Nose, Post-nasal Adenoid Growths (Symptoms, Acquired Pigeon Breast). Pigeon Toe. See Deformities (Hallux Varus or Piyeon Toe).