111 PLAGUE observers have failed to recover the bacillus from the pus of a discharging bubo. It has been done, however, and for an unknown length of time the discharging bubo remains a source of infection. In cases with parotid and sub- maxillary buboes, the bacillus pestis has been found in the saliva. In some plague epidemics pulmonary complications of varying degrees of severity occurred in a large number of cases, as in the early part of the 1899 Bombay epidemic. Here, even where the lung changes were slight, plague bacilli were found in the sputum. This part of the subject may be summarised as follows:—Bubonic cases are at first little infectious, but upon the development of lung symptoms, septicsemia, or the opening of the bubo, become more infectious; primary plague pneumonia and septicaemia are infectious from the beginning, though this infection does not as a rule operate in well-ventilated houses or plague hospitals, in spite of the lack of personal disinfection and precautions on the part of the attendants on the sick. Plague in insanitary, plague-rat infected, or badly ventilated houses becomes a very infectious disease. (3) Infected Clothes.—Clothes can retain their infective property for a long period. Many cases are on record where evacuation of a village or houses has not at once checked the occurrence of plague cases among the inhabitants until their clothing has been removed and disinfected. Another fact bearing on this point is the heavy incidence of plague among the washerman class, who have suffered severely in India. A case of this nature occurred in Glasgow, where the wife of a man employed in collecting infected clothes contracted the disease, the husband, who had received a prophylactic dose of Yersin's serum, escaping infection. There are cases of dis- charged employes from plague hospitals infecting their families at home, probably due to the conveyance of infected clothing which had been hidden to escape steam disinfection. Bacteriological examination has usually proved negative in the cases of clothes and merchandise, unless grossly contaminated. Infected clothing has played an important part in some cases in infecting sailors, who, upon arrival in port, have opened their boxes, or taken from the bottom of their boxes clothing obtained in a plague-infected port. Such cases occurred in London Docks in 1896, in men who had shipped from Bombay and who had arrived in London in a healthy condition. In some outbreaks, dealers in second-hand clothing, or persons engaged in rag-picking, have been the first attacked. Rosenau states that the bacillus pestis can live on clothes for months, when dry in albuminous media at a temperature under 20° C. (4) Infected Soil.—The Indian Plague Com- mission note that the plague bacillus has not been recovered from the soil by any trustworthy observer in India. There are many difficulties in the way of such a research, and it is posssible that these may yet be overcome. It is probable that the plague bacillus is frequently present on the surface of mud and cow-dung floors, from gross contamination by sputum, excreta, etc., and thus may infect the barefooted inhabitants of the house. As to a saprophytic existence of the bacillus in the soil we know little or nothing, though it has been observed that abundant growths occur in tubes containing plague cultures buried in the soil, possibly from the ample supply of CO^, which appears to aid the growth of the organism. (5) Alleged Infection of Grain.—When grain is artificially infected with plague, the bacillus soon dies out, and observers have failed to recover the organism after four to six days. In decomposing grain it dies out sooner, the acid produced being fatal to the life of the bacillus. From these experiments it would seem that grain, even if at first directly in- fected, would soon lose its powers of infection. From the actually infected grain must be dis- tinguished cargoes or accumulations of grain infested by plague rats. In this case the epidemic may be carried on among rats, and on arrival at a port these rodents may infect the docks from communication between the ship and dock rats. The danger, therefore, in grain stores and grain ships does not appear to lie so much in the grain as in the rats with which they are associated. In other words, grain is no more dangerous as a source of in- fection than any other cargo or store likely to attract rats, and the danger lies in the rats and not in the cargo. (6) Water.—The plague bacillus, according to most observers, readily dies out in water, though Rosenau states that the bacillus can live a long time in this medium. There are no grounds for supposing that plague has ever been a water-borne disease. (7) Plague-infected Houses. — The common occurrence of plague - infected rats in these hovises has already been referred to. Regard- ing the infectivity of the house in which plague has occurred, the Indian Plague Commission observe: " The universal experience of plague in India proves that houses into which the infection of plague has been imported, whether by man or rats, are infective; this infectivity being so marked that many of the officers who have had most experience of the disease have come to the conclusion that the principal source of the infection is ... to be found in the houses into which the infection of plague has been introduced." The bacillus pestis has not been recovered from the mud or cow-dung floors in India, but this may be explained by the difficulties of the investigation, and not by the absence of the bacillus. Reference has already been made