69 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES certain of them, by splitting sugars, form lactic and sometimes acetic acid. But when sufficient gastric juice is poui-ed out for the hydrochloric acid to exist free, the growth of micro-organisms is inhibited, and some of them, at least, are killed. Others pass on into the intestine, and, as the acid in the chyme becomes neutralised, the acid-forming organisms begin to grow, and, by splitting the sugars, form lactic or acetic acid, and render the contents of the small intestine slightly acid. Towards the end of the small intestine, and more especially in the large intestine, the alkaline secretions have neutralised these acids, and in the alkaline material so produced the putrefactive organisms begin to flourish and to attack any protein which is not absorbed—splitting it up and forming among other substances a series of aromatic bodies, of which the chief are indol, skatol, and phenol. This splitting probably occurs through the liberation of tryptophane—in which amido- propionic acid is linked to a pyrrhol-benzene. CH2.CH.NH2.CO.OH V Benzene. C—H NH Pyrrhol. Amino-propionic Acid. By the breaking down of the amino-propionic acid, skatol— .0—CH, C—H NH is formed, and by the removal of the methyl, indol is produced— A. C—H /C—H NH Phenol- —0—H is a further stage of disintegration. By taking embryo guinea-pigs at full time from the uterus and keeping them with aseptic precautions, it has been shown that the absence of micro-organisms from the intestine does not interfere with digestion. The most important and abundant organism present in the intestinal tract is the bacillus coli comrmmis, which has a certain power of splitting proteins and a marked action in producing acids from sugars. Its presence in water is generally indicative of sewage contamination. Fate of the Digestive Secretions.—1. Water.—• Although it is impossible to state accurately the average amount of the various digestive secretions poured into the alimentary canal each day, it must be very considerable, probably not far short of 3000 c.cms., or something consider- ably more than one-half of the whole volume of the blood. Only a small amount of this is given off in the fseces, and hence the greater part must be reabsorbed. There is thus a constant circulation between the blood and the alimentary canal, or what may be called an entero-hcemal circulation. One portion of this is particularly important. The blood-vessels of the intestine pass to the liver, and many sub- stances, when absorbed into the blood stream, are again excreted in the bile and thus are prevented from reaching the general circulation. Among these substances are the salts of the bile acids and their derivatives, many alkaloids such as curarine, and in all probability a set of animal alkaloids called ptomaines formed by putrefactive decomposition of proteins in the gut. If, from disturbances in the functions of the liver, these are allowed to pass through that organ, the feelings of lassitude and discomfort which are associated with intestinal dyspepsia are produced. The liver thus forms a protec- tive barrier to the ingress of certain poisons. 2. Enzymes.—Ptyalin appears to be destroyed in the stomach by the hydrochloric acid. Pepsin is probably partly destroyed in the intestine, but it seems also to be absorbed and excreted in the urine; for, on the addition of hydrochloric acid, the urine has a peptic action on proteins. Trypsin appears to be destroyed in the alimentary canal; but the fate of the other pancreatic enzymes and of the enzymes of the succus entericus is unknown. 3. Bile Constituents.—1. The bile salts are partly reabsorbed from special parts of the small intestine — sodium glycocholate being taken up in the jejunum and taurocholate in the ileum. The acids of these salts are also partly broken up. The glycocholic acid yields amido-acetic acid, which is absorbed and passes to the liver to be excreted as urea; while the taurocholic acid yields amido-isethionic acid which goes to the liver and yields urea and probably sulphuric acid. The fate of the cholalic acid is not known, but it is supposed to be excreted in the faeces. 2. The pigments undergo a change and lose their power of giving Gmelin's reaction. They appear in the faeces as what may be called stercobilin. It is probably formed by reduction of bilirubin in the intestines as the result of the action of micro-organisms. 3. The cholesterin is passed out in the faeces.