PULSE, THE 401 slightly feverish, the two elevations composing the summit may be of nearly equal size, and if the vaso-constriction be more completely re- moved, the second summit may be smaller than the first, but is still remarkably developed (Fig. 30). When the radial artery is felt to be contracted in this manner, the systolic wave is invariably rendered anacrotic, or is divided into a double summit; and should the vessel relax somewhat it is quite possible, as Graham Steell states, for the finger to appreciate the two summits of this wave. The writer has frequently known such a pulse called dicrotic. He can also confirm Steell's observation as to the development of this feature on one side of the body only; in carotid tracings it is not unusual to find that from the left side ana- crotic, while that from the right side is normal—katacrotic. A very good example of the anacrotic pulse is shown in Fig. 31. It was obtained from a boy fourteen years old, who had extreme hyper- trophy of the left ventricle and remarkable thickening of the arteries all over the body. It was with great difficulty that the pulse could be felt in the radial, or even in the brachial systolic wave in a similar way, for a normal pulse-curve can by this means be made to ex- hibit anacrotic characters. The anacrotic sphygmogram is sometimes a true representation of the course of events in the artery, but it may also be obtained by faulty application of the sphygmograph. Such a curve Fig. 31.—Very marked anacrotism of the pulse in a case where the peripheral resistance was enormously increased. artery, and the presence of Eaynaud's pheno- mena in the hands and feet suggested consider- able obstruction in the peripheral blood-supply. The boy died from a cerebral haemorrhage, the result, doubtless, of the excessively high arterial pressure. The whole arterial system was found to be uniformly thickened and contracted Fig. 32.—The foutanelle pulse taken by means of a system of tambours (rounded, slightly anacrotic curve). almost to the obliteration of the lumen in some of the smaller branches. The left ventricle showed pure concentric hypertrophy, and the aorta was greatly naiTowed throughout its whole course. Here the peripheral resistance must have been enormous, and this was probably the factor mainly concerned in modifying the sys- tolic wave in the manner described. Com- pression of the abdominal aorta will alter the VOL. VIII Fig. 33.—Fontanelle pulse from infant aet. 4 months, of typically anacrotic character. Normal form of intracranial pulse. (Dudgeon's sphygmograph.) must often, for this reason, be regarded with suspicion as being possibly an incorrect record of the pulse under examination. The Fontanelle Pulse}—In the young child the brain, surrounded by fluid, is contained within the unyielding cranium. At one point there is a small area of elastic membrane—the fontanelle. The impulse of the left ventricle— systolic wave—is propagated to the arteries which ramify in the brain substance, and the whole organ expands. The fluid surrounding it is then compressed, and the membranous area is raised slightly. This is one of the fontanelle movements—the arterial—and it is really a plethysmographic pulsation. In this case the systolic wave is acting against great resistance, so the percussion element is largely abolished. This pulsation of the fontanelle is the expression of the more or less gradual swelling of the brain ; and if a tracing be made by means of a system of tambours, a single slowly rising wave is often all that is obtained, or the curve may be slightly anacrotic (Fig. 32). But by means of more deli- cate apparatus, e.g. Dudgeon's or Marey's sphygmograph, the single wave can be broken up into a curve which is, as a rule, typically anacrotic. This is the normal form of intracranial pulse, and especially so when the general arterial blood pres- sure is high (Fig. 33). Another movement of the fontanelle occurs with respiration. With inspiration blood is sucked out of the venous sinuses of the brain towards the right heart, 1 For fuller information on this subject the reader is referred to a valuable paper by Drs. Robert Hutchison and George Elder, Ed. Hasp. Reports, vol. iii. p. 268. 26 Fig. 34.—Simultaneous tracings of the respiratory movements and the fontanelle pulse to show the smaller arterial pul- sations during inspiration, and the larger ones during expira- tion. (Tlieintracranial tension was low.)