PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—HEMORRHAGE 289 into the uterus, the foot of the foetus is seized and drawn down. By gradually pulling upon it the size of the cervical canal is still further increased, and finally the breech can be brought through. The remainder of the foetus is then extracted in the usual manner. If the placenta is not immediately expelled by the uterine contractions, it should be removed by the hand, and in all cases the utero-vaginal canal must be plugged firmly with iodoform gauze. Supra-vaginal amputation of the uterus is perhaps to be preferred to the foregoing. It is easier if there is sufficient assistance. It is quicker if Porro's operation is performed. There is less blood lost during its performance, and there is no more, if as much, shock. The objection to it is the greater number of assist- ants which it requires. As to the method of performing it there is nothing very special to be said. For the description of the operation the reader is referred to the article on " Hys- terectomy," vol. V. p. 304. Porro's operation is the most rapid method, but convalescence is slower than if an intra- or retro-peritoneal treatment of the stump is adopted. Prognosis.—The prognosis for the mother is very serious, especially in those cases which come on before labour starts; for the child it is almost absolutely bad. (B) External Accidental Hemorrhage.— External accidental haemorrhage is the term applied to accidental haemorrhage when the blood escapes from the uterus according as it is poured out from behind the detached placenta. It is a serious accident, but by no means as serious as is concealed haemorrhage. In the majority of cases the blood pours into the vagina as rapidly as it escapes from the ruptured vessels. Sometimes, however, a certain amount of blood may first accumulate in the uterus, and then commence to escape externally as soon as the latter reacts against the blood pressure, i.e. as soon as the intra-uterine pres- sure becomes sufficiently great to overcome the resistance to the escape of blood. Symptoms.—The escape of blood from the vagina is the m^ost marked symptom, accom- panied by the usual symptoms of collapse if the bleeding continues long enough. In those cases in which there is concealed haemorrhage as well, the symptoms which have been given under the heading of concealed haemorrhage are met with. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of the case has to be made from haemorrhage due to placenta praevia, i.e. unavoidable haemorrhage. To do this, examine the patient vaginally, with the object of determining whether the placenta can be felt in the lower uterine segment or not. If it can be felt, it is a case of placenta praevia; if it cannot, of accidental haemorrhage. In some cases in which the placenta cannot be felt, it may possibly be a case of lateral placenta VOL. VIII praevia, but still it is to be treated as if it was one of accidental haemorrhage. The reason for this is that, if the placenta lies at a height at which it cannot be felt from the vagina, though actually it may be a placenta praevia, still the treatment suitable for accidental haemorrhage will be found to be the more efficacious. Accidental haemorrhage may be diagnosed by abdominal palpation by excluding the possibility of placenta praevia. If the head is found to be fixed in the pelvis, and the patient is bleeding, it is certainly not a case of placenta praevia. Treatment.—The treatment of the case, as well as the prognosis, depends to a very great extent upon the time at which the haemorrhage starts, i.e. whether during pregnancy or labour —when there are no uterine contractions, or when there are. If the patient is in labour, the danger of the case is greatly diminished, and the treatment is comparatively simple. If she is not in labour, the reverse is the case. If the patient is not in labour when the haemorrhage starts, there are two points towards which our treatment must be directed. The first is the immediate checking of the haemor- rhage ; the second, the induction of labour. If the haemorrhage can be satisfactorily stopped for the time necessary to bring on uterine contractions, the case is practically reduced to one of haemorrhage during labour, and the prognosis consequently improved. As has been shown above, there is very little room for blood to accumulate in a healthy uterus filled by an unruptured ovum. Either it must escape from the cavity as rapidly as it pours out from behind the placenta, or the intra-uterine pres- sure will become equal to the blood pressure, and the bleeding cease. Again, the fact that the haemorrhage is external tends to show that the uterus is " healthy," as is demonstrated by the statistics of cases treated on this basis. In no case of accidental haemorrhage at the Rotunda Hospital has plugging converted an external into an internal haemorrhage, an accident which would surely occur if the uterine fibre had lost its tone. If we prevent the blood which is being poured out from behind the placenta from leaving the uterus, the pressure inside the latter will i-apidly become equal to the blood pressure, and the haemorrhage will cease. The easiest and most eff'ectual method of doing this is by plugging the vagina tightly, and so com- pressing the cervix. This will check the haemorrhage, and at the same time it will carry out our other object, which is a necessary part of any successful treatment, namely, it will induce labour. Furthermore, labour thus brought on comes on gradually, and does not cause any aggravation of the shock from which the patient is already suff'ering, as do the more rapid methods of emptying the uterus. On the contrary, ample time is allowed for the 19