PULSE, THE 396 former is of instrumental origin when it appears as a separate apex to the pulse-curve. From this description we are led to a true conception of the systolic portion of the sphygmogram. The Systolic Wave.—From a study of simul- taneous tracings of the pulse, aortic pressure, apex-beat, and intra-ventricular pressure, as worked out experimentally by Hurthle, von Frey, and others, it is clear that the up-stroke of the sphygmogram coincides exactly with the FlQ. 12.—Simultaneous tracings from the aorta (fusiform dilatation) and radial pulse. The spaces E represent the duration of the ventricular outflow; the up-stroke of the sphygmogram corresponds exactly with the rise of the aortic pressure. (Time register in fifths of a second—writer's time-marlier.) rise of the aortic pressure—the so-called per- cussion wave does not occur earlier than this, and therefore it must not be regarded as a separate event in the tracing (Fig. 12). Dr. James Mackenzie has greatly simplified matters Fig. 13.—The systolic and dicrotic waves—the true iutra-arterial waves. by applying the term systolic ivave to the first part of the sphygmogram, fi'om the commence- ment of the rise to the dicrotic notch. This, in the writer's opinion, is the most correct and rational method of interpretation yet adopted, and it indicates the true re- lationship of the ventricular and arterial pressures. The principal fact to lay hold of is this, that there is only a single wave movement produced in the arterial sys- tem at the time the ventri- cular contents are forced through the aortic valves, and this, as Mackenzie suggests, may be called the systolic wave. In the tracing of a low-pressure pulse (Fig. 13), the heart movement which gives rise to this wave is apparent as a single elevation, and then the second and slighter increase in arterial pressure which follows is depicted as the dicrotic wave. Therefore, when the radial artery is compressed by the pad of the sphygmograph, these two waves—true intra-arterial waves of pressure—produce two expansions of the vessel, and the simplest type of sphygmogram is re- presented. The Dicrotic Wave. — With regard to the nature of the dicrotic wave we may give the following explanation :—After the completion of its systolic contraction the ventricle begins to relax, and in doing so any support afforded to the aortic cusps by its contracted walls is withdrawn. A negative wave is thus set up which travels towards the heart. This wave is arrested by meeting the closed aortic valve, and is reflected as a positive wave towards the periphery. Hence it is accompanied by a renewed rise in the blood pres- sure, and is indeed sometimes appreciated by the finger as a second though feebler pulse- wave. That the two waves—systolic and dicrotic—are the only es- sential ones in a pulse-tracing is easily demonstrated by allowing the blood to spurt from a cut artery on to the surface of a revolving drum, when the so-called hjem-auto- graph is obtained. Modifications of the Systolic Wave.—It so happens that what is generally described as the normal sphygmographic tracing shows more than these two waves, for between the summit of the first wave and the dicrotic notch there is a second upheaval (Fig. 10). This upheaval may sometimes rise to a higher level than the first summit, or it may be poorly represented. The systolic wave may therefore appear in the sphygmogram as a single curve, or it may be broken up into two or more distinct elevations owing to the participation of other factors. The sphygmograph plays an important part in the breaking up of the systolic wave, but the arrangement of the two summits—i.e. the time of occurrence of the second wave—is determined largely by the degree of obstruction to the Fig. 14.—The modification of the systolic wave in aortic stenosis—the second summit forms the highest part of the tracing. outflow of blood from the ventricle into the aorta, and also by the state of the resistance in the peripheral arteries. Thus interference with the propagation of the systolic wave from marked narrowing of the aortic orifice will produce a fairly constant and characteristic modification of the summit of the sphygmogram —the wave is broken up early, and the second elevation, which may be pointed or rounded, forms the highest part of the tracing (Fig. 14). Again, with the normal propagation of the