PLEURA, AFFECTIONS OF THE—SURGICAL 151 three pints of frothy serum. Fine moist rales are heard over the lung. A fatal termination is not infrequent, but many recover. Prompt treatment by alcohol, the nitrites, and strychnia must be instituted, and dry cupping and oxygen inhalations may also be administered. Drainage of chronic pleurisies that demand repeated aspiration has been much debated; and although successful cases have been re- corded by West, Morison, Wilson, and others it must be admitted that this step has not yet received wide surgical approbation. The almost inevitable conversion of such pleurisies into empyemata, with persistent discharge, renders the propriety of incising and draining these cavities very doubtful. The writer's experience is wholly in favour of depending upon repeated aspiration in such cases. Empyema. —Surgical Treatment of. —It should be remembered that purulent collections in the pleura are usually loculated ; in a smaller number of instances the pus occupies the entire cavity; some are multilocular; and a few are bilateral. Of the bilateral eiTusions one side may contain serous fluid and the other pus. Recently it has been sought to determine the presence of pus by the X-rays (Walsham, Kilian), but in the present state of our knowledge the aspiration of a sample of the fluid is still needed for proof. The classification of empyemata into five forms, according to the micro-organism engaged in their production, has an important bearing upon surgical management and prognosis. 1. Pneumonococcus empyema. 2. Streptococcus ,, 3. Saprogenic ,, 4. Tubercular ,, 5. Staphylococcus ,, The last named is often variously mixed with the other forms, and does not often appear as a separate pathological entity (Netter). While it cannot be denied that one or more exhaustive aspirations may cure a pneumono- coccal empyema, especially in children, it will commonly be found necessary to provide a free opening with drainage, either by incision through an intercostal space or the excision of a seg- ment of a rib. Certainly in streptococcal, sapro- genic, and staphylococcal empyemata no delay is warrantable, as the pus is sure to reaccumu- late after aspiration, and the risk to life of the retention of these kinds of pus is greater than in the pneumonococcal variety, which is the most hopeful of all. On the other hand, the writer has seen nothing but misfortune result from these open measures applied to tubercular empyema, and he strongly endorses the view that aspiration, repeated only so often as the dyspnoea demands, instead of permanent drain- age, is the best course to adopt in these very unpromising cases. Anaesthesia in these operations is always an anxious question, particularly so in patients with much dyspnosa and displacement of organs, and in those with recently established broncho- pleural fistula. The antesthesia should never be profound; and indeed, in both its general and local forms it may occasionally be dis- pensed with. Chloroform or methylene is more suitable than ether, as the latter embarrasses by the coughing and salivation which it induces. A preliminary aspiration to reduce the excessive quantity of pus is often a wise precaution. Tlie patient should be recumbent, and rolled over on the sound side as little as possible. The opening should be made in the eighth interspace just in front of the scapular angle, or the ninth rib may be resected in the same situation. Efficient drainage both in the erect and lying postures is thus provided, and it will seldom be found necessary to make two thoracic openings as was formerly the practice recom- mended. In small loculated empyemata the opening must of course be made where the dulness indicates, and in all cases the presence of pus at the selected spot must be verified by an exploratory puncture at the time of operation. Excision of a rib is superior to mere incision of an interspace, for it supplies an opening which does not become valvular, and which admits a finger for examination of the cavity and lung and the evacuation of large fibrinous coagula. Moreover, the advantage of easy dressing in children and nervous adults is obvious. The risks of the bony section favouring pyaemia, etc., are fanciful. The Operation.—In incising an interspace the ■ soft parts are to be steadied upon the lower rib, bounding the interspace with the left forefinger and thumb, and an incision two and a half to three inches long is made down upon its upper border, thus avoiding the intercostal vessels and nerve. When all bleeding points have been secured, the pleura is opened by a small in- cision, which is widened by the insertion of a dressing forceps. The finger is then introduced to prevent a too rapid escape of the pus, and to assist in dislodging coagula. Excision of the rib involves a three-inch in- cision boldly carried down to the middle of its outer surface, dividing the periosteum with the other soft tissues. The periosteum is raised towards the rib borders with an elevator for two inches, and the intercostal muscles are detached for a like distance, with due regard to the vessels and nerve, which are practically never seen. The periosteum is then cautiously separ- ated from the deep surface by a lateral move- ment of the elevator, and a segment of bone, about an inch and a half in length, is clipped out, the elevator being used as a lever to facili- tate this step. After securing the bleeding points, the pleura is opened as above described, and the finger is introduced to ascertain the