58 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES mammals the fibrous tissue supporting the liver cuts it up into a number of small divisions, the lobules, each lobule being composed of a series of obliterated tubules an-anged radially with blood-vessels coursing between them. The portal vein which takes blood from the stomach, intestine, pancreas, and spleen breaks up in the liver (Fig. 115, p. 10), and carries the blood between the lobules. From the inter- lobular brandies, capillaries run inwards and enter a central vein which carries the blood from each lobule, and pours it into the hepatic veins which join the inferior vena cava. The supporting tissue of the liver is supplied by the hepatic artery, and its terminal branches have a very free communication with those of the portal vein. The Pancreas is essentially the same in structure as the parotid gland. But in the lobules are certain little masses of epithelium- like cells closely packed together, the Islets of Langerhans (Fig. 158). The Nerve Supply of the Alimentary Canal. —The muscles round the mouth are supplied i ST *'*rifi V,;;. Fig. 158.—Section of pancreas to show acini of secreting cells ; a large duct; and in the centre an island of I.angerl\ana. by the fifth, seventh, and twelfth cranial nerves. The nerve supply of the salivary glands will be considered later. The pharyngeal muscles are supplied by the ninth and tenth cranial nerves, and the oesophagus is supplied by the tenth, and by fibres from the sympathetic. The stomach and intestine get their nerve fibres from two sources (Fig. 138, p. 33), above the descending colon from the vagus and the ab- dominal sympathetic, and below this from the nervi erigentes and abdominal sympathetic— the various fibres passing through the abdominal sympathetic ganglia. In the wall of the stomach and intestine these nerves end by forming an interlacing set of fibres, with nerve cells upon, them, from which fibres pass to the muscles and glands. One of these plexuses (Auei'bachs) is placed between the muscular coats—the other (Meissner's) is placed in the submucosa. These plexuses resemble the nervous system of the lower invertebrates rather than the synaptic system of the central nervous mechanism. II. Physiology i. Digestion in the Mouth.—A. Mastication. —In the mouth, by the act of chewing, the food is thoroughly broken up and mixed with saliva. The muscular mechanism of mastication may be here briefly indicated. Movements of Masticatio7i. — Movements of Lower Jaw in—1. Vertical Plane. a. Eleva- tion, a. Temporal. ^8. Masseter. y. Internal Pterygoid, b. Depression, a. Weight of Jaw. /3. Anterior Belly of Digastric, y. Mylo- and Genio-Hyoid. 8. Platysma. Hyoid fixed by— Omo- and Sterno-hyoid, Sterno-thyroid, and Thyro-hyoid. 2. Horizontal Plane—Fonvards : External Pterygoids. Backivards: Posterior Fibres of Temporal. To Right: Left External Pterygoid. Right Temporal (Posterior Fibres). 3. Other Muscles of Mastication—Buccinator and Orbicularis oris. B. Saliva.—The saliva is formed by the salivary glands—the parotid, submaxillary, sub- lingual, and various small glands in the mucous membrane of the mouth. Characters.—It is a somewhat turbid fluid which, when allowed to stand, throws down a white deposit consisting of shed epithelial scales from the mouth, leucocytes, amorphous calcic and magnesic phosphates, and generally numer- ous bacteria. Its specific gravity is low—gener- ally about 1003, In reaction it is neutral or faintly alkaline. Chemically it is found to contain a very small proportion of solids. The saliva from the parotid gland contains only about 0"4 per cent, while that from the sublingual may contain from 2 to 3 per cent. The sublingual and sub- maxillary saliva in man is viscous, from the presence of mucin formed in these glands, while the parotid saliva is free from mucin. In addi- tion to mucin, traces of proteins are present, and with these proteins is associated the active constituent or enzyme of the saliva—ptyalin. Saliva generally contains traces of potassium sulphocyanide, and in some pathological con- ditions this may be markedly increased. The functions of the saliva are twofold :— 1. Mechanical., to moisten the mouth and gullet, and thus to assist in speaking, chewing, and swallowing Since the salivary glands are absent from aquatic mammals, and since in cai'nivorous animals saliva has no chemical action, it would appear that this is the important function. 2. Chemical.—Under the action of the ptyalin of the saliva, polysaccharids, like the starches,