PRESCRIBING, AND METHODS OF ADMINISTERING DRUGS 303 ■dilute sulphuric acid and syrup of ginger. Tincture of belladonna or hyoscyamus, or •chlorate of potash, with syrupus mori. Menthol and sugar. Cod-liver oil with essence of almonds and lemon. Ammoniated tincture of opium with aniseed water. Phosphoric acid or acetate of potash with syrupus rubi idjei. Castor oil or salicylic acid or dilute sulphuric acid with syrup of ginger and cinnamon water. Senega with syrup of oranges and chloroform water. Spiritus fEtheris compositus or spiritus fetheris nitrosi with aqua carui or aqua camphorje. Colouring Agents.— It is seldom necessary to add anything to give colour to a mixture, but sometimes, as in the case of apomorphine, which may yield a green solution unless a few drops of hydrochloric acid be added, the colour may with advantage be modified by the addition of liquorice or acid infusion of roses. Unex- pected colour reactions are not infrequent in mixtures containing such coal-tar derivatives as antipyrin and antifebrin, hence it is generally advisable to give these in as simple a form as possible. Odour. — It is comparatively rare for the odour of a drug to be so objectionable as to require concealment. The singularly clinging smell of iodoform may be disguised by Tonga bean or its active principle coumarin ; one grain of the latter may be added to 50 grains of iodoform. Fhiid extract of viburnum ought never to be prescribed as such, on account of its offensive smell, which suggests defective sanitation. It is most frequently given in capsule, or in the form of the proprietary remedy known as liquor sedans. Incompatibility.— Incompatibility may be pharmaceutical, pharmacological, or chemical: of these, the last is by far the most important. In prescribing new and unfamiliar drugs it is extremely easy to write an incompatible pre- scription, and in many cases no blame can be attached to the prescriber for doing so. As a general rule, such errors are detected by the dispenser in making up the prescription, where- incompatible combination of drugs to do harm ; more frequently the mixture is inert from the formation of insoluble bodies, or else is in such a form as to be difficult to administer. Practi- cally, the chief dangerous incompatibilities are those in which alkaloids are precipitated, and therefore cease to be evenly distributed through- out the mixture, and those in which cyanides may be formed. Among minor chemical incompati- bilities, changes of colour may be mentioned, as, for example, when borax is combined with acid infusion of roses, giving a bright green colour. Incompatibility is best avoided by simplicity in prescribing, particularly in the choice of the solvent or excipient; both alcohol and water lose their solvent power for the particular substances each dissolves, in proportion to the amount of the other present. Obviously, a drug should never be prescribed with its test or antidote. Pharmaceutical Incompatibility.—Water is a solvent for albuminous, mucilaginous, gelatin- ous, and saccharine bodies generally, and for most inorganic salts. Its power of dissolving these is diminished by the presence of alcohol. Alcohol is a solvent for oils, resins, gum-resins, and balsams, and its power of dissolving these is diminished by the presence of water. Essen- tial oils cannot be dispensed with water in the proportion of more than one minim to the fluid ounce. Fixed oils, oleo-gum-resins such as copaiva, and alcoholic extracts of resinous bodies can be combined with water only by the addition of an excipient to suspend them. Alcoholic tinctures of diverse strengths should not be mixed, and strong tinctures do not combine well with water. The aqute of the pharmacopoeia are already saturated. Compound infusion of gentian is incompatible with infusion of cin- chona. Acids should not be prescribed with liquorice, as the glycyrrhizin is precipitated. Water decomposes the glycerine of boracic acid. Salts of alkaloids should not, as a rule, be pre- scribed with oils or fats; the alkaloidal base itself should be used. Table II Incompatible with Watery infusions and decoctions. Resinous tinctures and fluid extracts. Chloroform. Volatile and fixed oils and balsams. Mucilage. Tannic acid. Solutions of lead and iron. Spirit of nitrous ether. Alcohol, glucosides, oxalates, carbonates. upon it is customary for him, unless, as is often the case, he can by skilful compounding get over the difficulty, to communicate with the physician in order that the mistake may be rectified. It is also comparatively rare for an Pharmacological Incompatibility.—It is un- necessary to say much on this head. It is apparent that to prescribe two active drugs which neutralise each other may defeat the aim of the physician, and to avoid this a knowledge