PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—AFFECTIONS OF OVUM AND DECIDUA 241 with shaggy branching processes, the villi of the chorion. On opening the sac its cavity is seen to contain a little liquor amnii and the fcBtus, while it is lined by the thin smooth amnion, which can easily be stripped from the thicker outer membrane, the chorion, which Decidua Dilated gland Fig. 1.—Section through wall of early ovum (about 3 weeks) and decidua. nature. Zeiss J in. ob. oc. 3. Ep. = foetal epithelium. bears the villi on its outer surface. To under- stand the structure of these foetal membranes, a portion of the wall of the ovum with the decidua attached should be sectioned for micro- scopic examination. The amnion is then seen to consist of two layers, the inner one being a single layer of epithelial cells (foetal epiblast), while its outer stratum is of delicate connective tissue (foetal mesoblast). The chorion is also composed of two layers, the inner of connective tissue, the outer of epithelium. The connective tissue layers of amnion and chorion are in contact with, and indeed continuous with, one another. (See Figs. 1 and 2.) The foetal epiblast, or chorionic epithelium, forming the outer stratum of the chorion, is a layer two cells thick. Each chorionic villus is an outgrowth of the chorion, being composed of a core of embryonic or mucous connective tissue covered by a layer of foetal epithelium which is, like that of the chorionic membrane, two cells thick. The mesoblastic core of the villus is continuous with the connective tissue layer of the chorion, and -contains capillary loops filled with foetal blood corpuscles. The appearance of the surface of the decidua shows that the foetal epithelium has the power of eating into and so destroying the maternal tissues. By this phagocytic action of their epithelium the tips of the villi penetrate and become attached to the compact layer of the VOL. VIII decidua. By this means also the decidual blood-vessels are opened into and thrown into communication with the space between the chorion and the decidua which is crossed by the villi, so that the maternal blood circulates freely in the intervillous space. In many specimens it is possible to distinguish two cell layers in the foetal epithelium covering the chorion and its villi. The outer layer shows no cell outlines, and it consists of a stratum of protoplasmic material containing numer- ous nuclei and vacuoles. This outer layer of the cho- rionic epithelium is known as the " syncytium." The inner layer, which is in contact with the connective tissue of the villi and chori- onic membrane, consists of distinct cells of large size, and is known as the " layer of Langhans." In order to understand the affections of the amnion, it is needful to remember that although the amniotic epithelium appears in trans- verse sections as a layer of apparently cubical cells, the appearance of the amnion when " silvered" and viewed in surface is closely suggestive of a serous membrane. The epithelial cells are flat and irregvilar in outline, while numerous stomata Maternal blood Villus Drawn from FcEtal epithelium Embedded villus Decidual cells Fia. 2.—Decidua and villi at the third month. Drawn from nature. Zeiss J in. ob. oc. 2. or openings between the cells are visible on careful examination. Affections of the Decidua Hypertrophy of the Decidua.—The changes that occur in the endometrium during early pregnancy are mainly hypertrophic in nature, and, like other physiological hypertrophic changes, they are liable to exceed normal 16