PLUTOMANIA 155 monomania in which the patient believes himself to be extraordinarily wealthy. PneobiOgrnOSiS.—The test whether a child has been born alive or dead, by the presence or absence of air in the lungs. See Medicine, Forensic (Infanticide, Hydrostatic Test). PneOgfra-ph.—An instrument for graphi- cally indicating the characters of the respiratory current of air (Gr. Trvew, I blow). PneumarthrOSiS.—Air or gas in a joint. PneumatO->—In compound words pneu- mafo- (Gr. TrveC/xa, air) means relating to air, to gas, or to respiration; e.g. pneumatometer, an instrument for measuring the amount of air taken into and expelled from the lungs during inspiration and expiration. Pneumatocele.—A tumour or hernia containing air or gas, e.g. a pneumatocele of the neck. See Neck, Region of (Cysts and Cystic Tumours). Pneumatosis.—The presence of air or gas in organs or tissues of the body from which it is usually absent or in which it is normally present in small amount, e.g. in the stomach in nervous dyspepsia. See Indigestion (Nervous Dyspepsia). Pneumatotherapy.—The treatment of disease by compressed air. Pneumaturia.—The presence of free gas in the urine. See Urine, Pathological Changes in (Pnetimaturia). Pneumo-.— in compound words pneumo- (Gr. TTvevfia, wind or air) means relating to the lungs or to respiration; e.g. pneumolith (a con- cretion in the lung), pneuniorrhagia (pulmonary liEemorrhage or apoplexy), and pneumotyphus (typhus fever accompanied by pneumonia). PneumobacilluS. — The bacillus of Friedlander, which may be found along with or apart from the pneumococcus in cases of pneu- monia. See Pneumonia, Bacteriology (Other Bacteria). Pneumococcus. — See Pneumonia, Bacteriology. See also Bone, Diseases of (Osteomyelitis due to Pneumococcus); Conjunc- tiva, Diseases of (Acute Ophthalmia, Etiology); Ear, Acute Inflammation of the Middle (Causes, Micro - organisms) ; Expectoration (Parasites, Pnetoinococcus); Fluids, Examina- tion OF Pathological (Bacteriology); Meninges of the Cerebrum (Acute Simple Meningitis, Micro-organisms); Meningitis, Epidemic Cere- bro-Spinal (Bacteriology); Nose, Examination OF the (Secretion, Bacteriology); Peritoneum (Pathology, Bacteriology); Peritoneum, Tuber- culous Peritonitis (Pneumococci); Pleura, Diseases of (Bacteriology of Pleural Ejfusio7is); Post-mortem Methods (Bacteriological Investi- gations) ; Septicaemia (Definition, Bacteria); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of (Infective Gastritis, Bacteria); Teeth (Bacteriology of the Mouth); Tonsils, Diseases of (Tonsillitis, Causes). Pneumoconiosis. See Lungs, Pneu- MONOKONIOSIS. Pneumoderma.—Emphysema of the subcutaneous tissues. PneumOgastriC—Literally the term means relating to the lungs and to the stomach, but most commonly it is the vagus nerve which is intended when the word pneumogastric is employed. See Vagus Nerve. See also Epi- lepsy (Symptoms, Epigastric Aura); Heart, Physiology of (Cardiac Nervous System) ; Larynx, Neuroses of (Innervation of the Larynx); Pharynx, Examination of (Neuroses of Sensation); Physiology (Cranial Nerves, Cir- culation, Respiration, etc.); Stomach and Duo- denum, Diseases of (Anatomy, Nerves). Pneumograpll.—^An instrument for recording graphically the movements of the chest in respiration. Pneumohaemothorax.—The pres- ence of air and blood in the pleural cavity. Pneumohydrometra. — The pres- ence of air or gas and serous fluid in the uterus. Pneumohydropericardium.— The presence of gas and fluid in the pericardial sac. Pneumohydrothorax. — The pres- ence of gas and fluid in the pleural cavity. Pneumomassagre.—A form of treat- ment of chronic otitis media by inflation of the tympanic cavity with air and by simultaneously producing a rarefaction of the air in the external auditory meatus. Pneumonia. 1. Bacteriological Section .... 155 2. Clinical Section 161 Bacteriological Section Introductory . . . . .156 Historical ...... 157 The Pneumococcus— Some Morphological and Biological Facts .158 Effects of Experimental Inoculation . 158 Intoxication and Immunity .159 Distribution in Health and in Disease 159 Summary and Conclusions . .160