190 POLYMORPHIC e.g. the polymorphic coccus of Cedercrentz. See Skin, Bacteriology of. Polymorphs.—Leucocytes having vari- ously shaped nuclei consisting of apparently separate portions; polymorphonuclear leu- cocytes. Polymyositis. — An inflammatory disease of the muscles. See Muscles, Diseases of {Inflammatory). Polyneuritis. See Nerves, Peripheral {Multiple Peripheral Neuritis); Paralysis {Landry's Paralysis, Diagnosis). Polynuclea.r.—Having several nuclei; multinuclear. PolyoestrouS. — Having a series of cycles of reproductive activity {oestrus) in the same year, e.g. sheep and mares. Polyopia or Polyopsia.—Multiple vision, or that morbid state of the eyes in which one object is seen as two or more. See Cataract {Senile, Diagnosis). Polyorchidy or Polyorchism.— The rare abnormality in which more than two testicles are present. See Scrotum and Tes- ticles, Diseases of {Abnormalities). Polyorrhomenitis or Polyorro- menitiS.—Suppuration or tuberculosis affect- ing several serous membranes; Concato's Dis- ease. See Peritoneum, Tuberculous Periton- itis {Varieties). Polyotia.. See Ear, External, Diseases OF {Malformations of Excess, Cervical Auricles). Polyparesis. — Paresis affecting many muscles ; general paresis or paralysis. Polypeptides. See Physiology, Proto- plasm {Synthesis of the Products of Disintegra- tio7i). Polyphag^ia.—Excessive appetite for food ; bulimia. See Appetite {Increase of). Polypharmacy.—The use of many drugs in the treatment of disease. Polyphrasia.—Verbosity, especially in insanity; logorrhoea. Polyphyodont.—That form of dentition in which there is a continuous succession of teeth throughout life; it is not found as high as the mammalia, mammals and man being diphyodont (having two sets). Polypncea.—Rapid or panting respira- tion. PolypOSia. — A passionate desire for drinking; dipsomania. Polypotome or Polyptome.—An instrument for removing a polypus {q.v.). Polypus. — A rounded, pear-shaped, or branched tumour, usually provided with a pedicle, springing from a mucous or serous surface. See Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppura- tion {Complications, Polypi); Heart, Myocar- dium AND Endocardium {Morbid Process, Throm- bosis in Heart); Mole, Molar Pregnancy {Placental Polypus); Nose, Diseases op Nasal Orifices and Septum {Benign Tumours of Nasal Fossm); Nose, Accessory Sinuses, In- flammation of {Pathology); Rectum, Diseases of {Polypus Recti); Umbilicus, Diseases of {Tumours); Uterus, Non-malignant Tumours of {Polypi). Polysaccharid. See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Carbohydrates, Polysac- charids). Polysarcia.—Obesity {q.v.) Polyserositis. See Polyorrhomenitis. Polysomia.—The teratological state in which two foetuses (complete or imperfect) are united together; fused twins. Polyspermy. — The entrance of more than one spermatozoon into the ovum in im- pregnation ; it is one of the alleged causes of double monsters. Polystichia.—The arrangement of the eyelashes in two or more rows. Polythelia.—The presence of more than two nipples (one on each mamma) in the human subject; the accessory nipple may be on the chest, in the axilla, or on the abdomen. See Mammary Gland, Diseases of {Congenital Anomalies, Polymastia). PolytOCOUS. — Producing numerous offspring, or prolific. Polytrichia.—Excessive hairiness. See Hirsuties. Polyuria.—The excessive secretion and excretion of urine. See Brain, Tumours of {Localising Symptoms, Uriiie); JIysteria {Organs of Secretion, Kidneys); Kidney, Surgical Affec- tions OF {Movable Kidney, Symptoms); Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Traumatic Nephritis, Sympitoms); Kidney, Surgical Affections op {Renal Tubercidosis, Symptoms); Micturition {Frequency); Ocular Muscles, Affections of {Paralysis, Etiology, Position of Lesion); Urine, Pathological Changes in (Variations in Quan- tity). Pomegranate Bark. See Granati Cortex. Pompholyx.—A vesicle on the skin, or a