13 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES main ousps, forming the mitral valves (Fig. 118)— 1st. An anterior or right cusp, which takes origin from, and is continuous with, the right posterior wall of the aorta. It hangs down into the ventricle between the aortic and auri- culo-ventricular orifices, thus dividing the ven- tricle into two parts, an aortic and an auricular part. This cusp is very strong, and in many- animals bone is developed in it towards its base. It is composed of dense fibrous tissue, is smooth on both sides, and the chordse are inserted chiefly along its edges. 2nd. The posterior or left cusp takes origin from the back part of the auriculo-ventricular ring, and hangs in the ventricle in its relaxed state against the posterior and left wall. It is smaller and less strongly made than the anterior cusp. The chordfe tendinese are not only in- serted into its edge, bvit run up along its pos- terior aspect to be inserted into the auriculo- ventricular ring, and they thus give the posterior aspect of the cusp a rough ridged appearance. When the papillary muscles contract, the cusps are drawn together. The edge of each cusp thins out to form a delicate border, which, when the cusps are approximated, completely seals the aperture. On the right side of the heart the auriculo- ventricular orifice is separate from the pul- monary opening, and the three cusps of the tricuspid valve are developed in connection with the crescentic opening from the auricle (Fig. 116). One rises from the ring above the septum, and hangs down into the ventricle upon the surface of the septum. This cusp is small, thin, and delicate. It is attached by its lower border to the septal papillary muscles. The chief or infundibular cusp (Fig. 117, I.C.) rises from the front part of the ring between the pulmonary infundibulum and the auriculo- ventricvilar opening. It is connected by its anterior border with the horizontal fibres from the superior papillary muscles, and by its lower and inferior border with the chordae from the anterior papillary muscle. When these two sets of papillary muscles contract, this cusp is drawn flat against the bulging septum. The posterior cusp (P.C.) takes origin from the posterior and outer part of the ring, and hangs down into the posterior part of the ven- tricle. It is connected by its anterior margin with the anterior papillary muscle and by its posterior margin with the posterior papillary muscle. Contraction of these muscles therefore approximate its anterior edge to the infundibular cusp, its posterior edge to the septal cusp, and pull it towards the septum. In both the infundibular and posterior cusps many of the chordae pass up to be inserted into the auriculo-ventricular ring. Semilunar Valves. — The valves, situated at the opening of the ventricles into the great arteries, are also formed as special developments of the endocardium. Each is composed of three half-moon-shaped membranous pouches attached along their curved margin to the walls of the artery and upper part of the ventricle, and with their concavities directed away from the ventricle. In the centre of the free margin is a fibrous thickened nodule, the corpus Arantii, from which a very thin piece of membrane, the lunule, extends to the attached margin of the edges. A pouch, the sinus of Valsalva, lies behind each cusp. The arrangements of these various cusps is of importance in connection with their action (Fig. 118). Aortic Valve.—The anterior cusp is largest, and lies somewhat deeper in the heart than the others. At each side it is attached to the aortic wall, but below it is attached to the upper part of the septum ventriculi, so that the base of the sinus of Valsalva is formed by the upper part of the septum. At a somewhat higher level is a cusp which is partly attached to the upper part of the septum, partly to the posterior wall of the aorta, where this becomes continuous with the anterior cusp of the mitral. The third cusp is still higher, and is attached to the aortic wall, where it becomes continuous with the anterior cusp of the mitral. Pulmonary Valve. — The posterior cusp is mounted on the top of the septimi ventriculi, and is at a somewhat lower level than the other two. Thus, in each valve, the cusp placed lowest is mounted on a muscular cushion, the use of which will afterwards be considered. Attachments 'and Relations of the Heart (Fig. 119).—The heart is attached, by the great vessels coming from it, to the posterior wall of the chest at the level of the fifth to the eighth dorsal vertebrae. Its plane of attachment faces forwards and downwards. From this the heart projects into the chest as a conical mass downwards, forwards, and to the left. It does not lie at right angles to its plane of attachment, but, when not contracting, it is limp and hangs down, as shown in the diagram (con- tinuous line). Nor can it assume a position at right angles to its plane of attach- ment (dotted line), because the front part of the heart lies against the anterior chest wall over an area (the praecordium) bounded to the right by the midsternal line, above by the fourth left rib, below by the seventh left rib, and to the left by a vertical line inside the nipple line. Fig. 119.—Mesial section through the thorax to show the attach- ment and relations of the heart.