468 RAY FUNGUS Ra.y Fungous. See Actinomycosis. Raynaud's Disease. Etiology . . . .. . . 468 Symptoms ...... 468 (1) Local Si/ncope .... 468 (2) Local Cyanosis ... 469 (3) Symmetrical Gangrene . . .469 Progress and Complications . . . 470 Morbid Anatomy and Pathology . .471 Diagnosis . . . . . .471 Prognosis and Treatment . . .472 Erythromblalgia Etiology . . . . . .472 Symptoms . . . . . .472 Morbid Anatomy and Pathology . . 473 Diagnosis 473 Prognosis and Treatment . . . 474 See also Gangrene (Varieties, Symmetrical Gangrene); Gout [Irregular, Manifestations in Nervous System); H/emoglobinuria [Par- oxysmal) ; Nails, Affections of the [in Raynaud's Disease). Although instances of this disease have been recorded in medical literature as far back as Schrader's case in 1679, it was not until the year 1862 that the French physician, Maurice Raynaud, called attention to the group of symptoms which has since borne his name. Like migraine, epilepsy, and the so-called " functional" diseases, Raynaud's disease is a clinical, not a pathological entity. Whilst it forms a striking clinical picture, and is doubtless dependent on some faulty innervation of the vascular system, yet no constant structural changes have been found, either in the nervous or vascular tissues, which can adequately explain the profound morbid appear- ances presented by this affection. Etiology.—Sex.—The disease is commoner in the female sex, the proportion (both in Munro's 180, and in Cassirer's 104 collected cases) being 1-7 females for every male. The age of onset, in the vast majority of cases, is under thirty years, the average of 171 cases being 28'9 years (Munro). From the striking frequency with which young adults are aflfected, Raynaud was inclined to apply the term "juvenile gangrene" to the affection. But no age is exempt. Infancy and old age alike have been attacked, the youngest recorded case being that of an infant aged six months (Friedel), the oldest that of a woman of seventy- seven years (Henry). A neuropathic diathesis seems to be the most important predisposing factor. Raynaud himself pointed out that nervous individuals are chiefly affected. Direct heredity, on the other hand, where parent and child have both suffered from the disease, is uncommon. The most frequent exciting cause is exposure to cold and damp, and such patients are often abnormally sensitive to cold. Thus, as might be expected, the complaint is commoner in winter than in summer, and occurs more frequently in people whose occupations entail exposure to cold and damp, e.g. washerwomen. Many cases, however, occur in which no such exciting cause can be found. Fatigue, especi- ally when combined with exposure, may bring on an attack; so also may mental shock or emotion. There is no evidence that disorder of the sexual organs has any causal relation to the complaint. Raynaud's disease may also supervene during the course of other chronic affections such as malaria, congenital syphilis, gout, chlorosis, diabetes, and paroxysmal hsemoglobinuria. A few cases have been re- corded in which a toxic influence appears to have been at work, as when the symptoms have developed for the first time during an attack of intestinal obstruction. Symptoms.—Summary.—The chief symptoms are pains, more or less severe, and parsesthesia of various sorts. They are not confined to the area of distribution of definite nerve trunks, but affect, usually, the periphery of the limbs (more commonly the upper extremities). Less commonly they occur in other situations, such as the ears, lips, nose, etc. The distribution is generally symmetrical. To these symptoms are superadded signs of paroxysmal vaso-motor disturbance in the form of (1) local pallor [^'■syncope"), or (2) local cyanosis ["asphyxia"), less commonly redness. After a time, or even in some cases without antecedent vaso-motor phenomena, trophic lesions occur in the affected parts, mostly of the nature of (3) gangrene. These three stages of the disease may occur either successively, or the first and second may occur without the third, and conversely. The course of the disease is an intermittent one. Anaesthesia and motor paralysis as a rule are absent. During the intervals between the par- oxysms there may either be persistent signs of faulty vaso-motor innervation, or there may be no such signs or symptoms. The disease may exhaust itself in a single paroxysm, or many successive attacks may occur. (1) Local Syncope.—In this form of Raynaud's disease the affected parts, usually the fingers (less frequently the toes, sometimes the margins of the pinnse, the tip of the nose, or in rare cases even the tip of the tongue) suddenly become cold to the touch and white in colour. The degree of pallor varies; it may be waxy, tallowy, or corpse-like; sometimes it is bhiish- white. What usually attracts the patient's attention, however, is not so much the change of colour, as some sensory disturbance in the form of pain or parsesthesia, e.g. numbness, tingling, feeling of stiffness, or an indescribable consciousness that something unusual is going on in the part. As the pallor increases, so does the pain or parsesthesia become more intense, and