PREVENTIVE MEDICINE 313 diet, hygiene, vaccination, inoculation, and the like. *S'ee Therapeutics, Serum Therapy. Prevost'S Symptom. —The occur- rence, in apoplexy, of conjugate deviation of the eyes and head, which looked toward the side of the cerebral lesion and away from that of the paralysed limbs. Priapism. — Persistent erection of the penis (Gr. TrptaTrt^o), to be like Priapus) due to stone in the bladder, ascarides, disease of the spinal cord, spleno-medullary leukaemia, etc. See Brain, Cerebellum, Affections of {Haemor- rhage, Symptoms); Penis, Surgical Affections OP {Priapism); Spine, Surgical Affections of {Fracture, Symptoms); Tabes Dorsalis {Symp- tomatology, Genital Organs). Prickle-Cell Layer.— The stratum Malpighii of the epidermis. See Skin, Anatomy AND Physiology {Epidermis). Prickly Heat.—See Miliaria {Miliaria Papulosa); Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Caused by Climatic Conditions, Lichen Ti'opicus). Pri mse Vise.—Literally, the first passages, e.g. the alimentary canal or the bowels. Primary.—First in order of time, of im- portance, or of development; e.g. pj^imary syphilis '{see Syphilis, Acquired, Primary), primary am- j)utation, primary lateral sclerosis {see Para- lysis), etc. Pri mi parity.—The state of being preg- nant for the first time, the pregnant patient being then termed a primipara. See Preg- nancy, Diagnosis {Multiparity and Primiparity). Primitive or Primordial.—Early, first-formed, original; e.g. the primitive streak and groove in embryology, primordial ova in the foetal ovary, etc. See Embryology ; Physi- ology, Tissues {Nerve, Primitive Nerve Sheath). Primula ObCOnica. -S'ee Dermatitis Traumatica et Venenata {Causal Agents, Vegetable); Myiasis {Plant Stings). Prince's Stain.—A mixture consisting of a basic and two acid dyes in solution (toluidin blue, acid fuchsin, and eosin) used for the differentiation of the nuclei and granules of blood corpuscles, etc. Prismata Adamantina.—Calcified prisms forming a large part of the enamel of a tooth. Prisms. See Nicol's Prism ; Ocular Muscles, Affections of {Abnormal Position, Hyperphoria, Treatment by Prisms); Physi- ology, Neuro-Muscular Mechanism (Vision); Refraction {Prisms); Spectroscope in Medi- cine ; Strabismus {Treatment). Prisoners. See Malingering {Motive, Prisoners). Private Patients. See Lunacy {Private Patients in England). Privies. See Sewage and Drainage {Middens). Pro-.—In compound words |jro- (Lat. ^ro, Gr. irpo, before) means before in time or in space or in estimation; e.g. the proamnion (a layer of ectoderm and entoderm of the early embryo), the proatlas (a vertebral element occasionally found between the atlas and the occipital bone), etc. Probability. See Vital Statistics {Probable Duration of Life, etc.). Probang".—A flexible rod for sounding the oesophagus or larynx; it may have a sponge on its extremity {sp)onge-probang). Probe.—A flexible rod, slenderer than a probang, for sounding and exploring internal organs {e.g. the uterus, ureters), or wounds {e.g. bullet-tracks) or canals. Nelaton's probe has a porcelain tip. Process.—An outgrowth, prominence, or projecting part; e.g. the coracoid process of the scapula, the odontoid process of the axis vertebra, the unciform process of the ethmoid, etc. ProchOWnick Diet.— A diet given in pregnancy with the object of diminishing the bulk of the foetus, of delaying its ossification, and of lessening the tissues which lie in the pelvis of the mother; it is said to be useful in cases of pelvic contraction. The following diet is to be given during the last two or three months of pregnancy ;—For breakfast, a small cup of coffee (100 c.c), about 25 grams of biscuit or bread with some butter; for dinner, any kind of meat, an egg, fish with a little sauce, green vegetables prepared in fat, salad, cheese; supper, the same as for dinner, with 40 to 50 grams of bread and butter; water, soups, potatoes, puddings, sugar, and beer are quite forbidden, and the total daily quantity of fluid is not to exceed 500 c.c. PrOC i d e nt i a. — Downward displacement or prolapse of some organ or part, such as the rectum or the uterus or the iris. See Gastro- intestinal Disorders of Infancy {Prolapsus Recti); Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor {Descent of the Floor); Pregnancy, Affections OF Generative Organs {Prolapsus or Proci- dentia Uteri); Rectum, Diseases of the {Pro- cidentia); Uterus, Displacements op the {Descent).