RELAPSING FEVER 504 it is actively motile, and attention may be drawn to it, on microscopical examination, by the manner in which the blood corpuscles are moved violently aside by its rapid movements. It stains readily with the ordinary basic aniline dyes, and may be searched for either in fresh blood, or by fixing blood on a cover-glass in the ordinary manner, washing in 1 per cent acetic acid, and afterwards in water, and then staining with gentian violet. The spirillum is present in the blood during the whole of the primary attack, and also during the relapses. In the apyrexial intervals, however, it is not to be found, but the experi- ments of MetschnikofF have proved that they may, during this period, be present in masses in the spleen. The vitality of the spirilla may be preserved for a considerable period, provided they are not exposed to heat, as a comparatively low temperature is sufficient to destroy them. All attempts to cultivate them on artificial media have failed, and the inoculation experiments performed on monkeys have been done with the blood of a patient suffering from the disease. Monkeys so inoculated develop large numbers of spirilla in the blood, and have a fever of short duration, terminating by crisis, but not followed by a relapse. The evidence at present is distinctly in favour of the spirillum which is known as the Spiy-ochoete Obermeieri (its dis- coverer in 1873) being the real cause of the disease. The more remote causes which favour the occurrence of an outbreak of relapsing fever, and increase the chances of its spread, are said to be destitution and famine. Indeed the latter condition has given the fever one of its most frequently used names. Overcrowding naturally favours the spread of any infective disease, and as this fever has been most fre- quently observed among the poorer classes, it is only natural to find conditions of overcrowding almost always associated with epidemics. In- sufficiency of food may only be a cause in that it naturally weakens the resistance of the exposed person. In the outbreak in 1869 both Rabagliati in Bradford and Muirhead in Edinburgh noted that their patients were all sufficiently well nourished. All agree that, for some reason or other, males are more frequently affected than females. As regards age, the fever is a disease of early life. Mode of Infection. — The most common method by which infection occurs is direct contact with a person suffering from the disease. Entering a badly ventilated room in which a patient is lying is sufficient to cause infection. As in typhus, therefore, infection would appear to be, to some extent, conveyed by the air, and to be contained in the exhalations of the patient. Murchison has noted that women working in hospital laundries frequently con- tract the disease, and we may therefore assume that the poison may be carried by fomites. Morbid Anatomy.—Except for the usual microscopic conditions resulting from pyrexia, there is nothing to be found on post-mortem examination. Nothing characteristic or pathog- nomonic has been observed in fatal cases. The spleen is always much enlarged. Symptoms and Course.—The 'period of in- cubation appears to be very variable. In certain cases the disease seems to develop within a few hours of exposure On an average five to ten days may be taken as the most probable time, though occasionally the period is prolonged to a fortnight. The first paroxysm commences abruptly, the patient being suddenly seized with rigors, often severe, pains in the back and limbs, headache most marked in the vertex and occiput, and by a marked sensation of giddiness. This last symptom usually compels him to take to his bed at once. The temperature rises rapidly, and in a few hours may rise to anything be- tween 102 and 106 degrees, even higher figures being occasionally recorded. The skin is dry and hot, and the patient at this stage is usually flushed, though even in the first twenty-four hours the skin may present the yellow tinge which is characteristic of this fever. The pulse is rapid, and is usually raised above 110, occasionally reaching 140 beats per minute before the end of the second day. As the fever progresses the tongue becomes covered with a thick yellow fur, but in the majority of cases it remains moist. Delirium may set in early, but is as a rule delayed for two or three days. The temperature remains high during the paroxysm, morning remissions being only slight. A level of about 104° seems a fair average. The respiration becomes hurried, and frequently exceeds thirty. Cough is a common symptom, and auscultation reveals rhonchi and harsh breathing. The patient is tormented by exces- sive thirst, and frequently suffers from severe and persisting vomiting of greenish yellow matter. Jaundice is common, and nearly every case presents a distinct icteric tinge in the con- junctiva. The liver is enlarged and tender, and the spleen is also increased in size. The bowels are as a rule constipated. In bad cases the patient may be conge^ed, or livid in the face. A certain percentage of cases, apparently, show a rose-rash on the trunk and limbs. The spots resemble small typhoid spots, though their distribution is more apt to suggest typhus. They do not disappear on pressure. After from five to seven days of continued fever the paroxysm terminates as abruptly as it started, by a remarkably sharp crisis. It may be ushered in by slight diarrhoea, and is always accompanied by very profuse sweating. The fall of the temperature may be as much as 10° Fahr. in twenty-four hours, and may