PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—DISEASES OF PLACENTA AND CORD 254 interstitial. The glandular form corresponds to the common glandular form of endometritis in the non-gravid uterus, and probably results from conception occurring in a uterus whose ■endometrium was thus affected. The decidual membrane is of unusual thickness, and fre- quently presents small polypoid cysts upon its uterine surface, formed no doubt by cystic dilatation of the deeper portions of the uterine glands. The microscope does not disclose any actual inflammatory changes, the morbid con- dition being characterised mainly by glandular proliferation, with some increase of the normal inter-glandular stroma. The interstitial variety, on the other hand, is a true inflammatory change characterised by round cell infiltration •of the whole membrane, congestion of vessels and interstitial hsemorrhages, with inconsider- able changes in the glands. Emanuel has shown that it may be caused by the gonococcus, and has demonstrated the presence of this organism in the inflamed membrane. Cholera and certain of the exanthemata are also said to cause acute hfemorrhagic endometritis in pregnancy, but further observations are required in this direction. The symptoms associated with decidual endometritis are pain and htemorrhage during the first three months of pregnancy, and a marked tendency to abortion. If the ovum survives that period atrophy of the decidua begins, and the danger abates. Diagnosis can only be established by microscopic examination of the micmbrane. It is possible that morbid adhesion of the placenta is a sequela of this condition. Diseases op the Umbilical Cord.—The ximbilical cord is less prone to disease than the placenta; the number of morbid conditions which are known to occur in it is very small indeed. Such accidental anomalies as undue or di- minished length and thickness, true and false knots, and excessive torsion, need only be mentioned; the latter condition is only found in the case of a dead foetus, and is now usually believed to be a post-mortem occurrence. Syphilitic endarteritis and periphlebitis have been described in the umbilical arteries, some- times to the extent of causing actual obliteration of the lumen. Degeneration cysts ai'e some- times met with of the same nature as those occurring in the placenta. A case of myxo- sarcoma of the cord has been described by Winckel. Intra-TJterine Diseases and Death of Foetus Physiology op Fcetus .... 254 Pathology . . . . . .255 Causes of Peculiarities . . .255 Diagnosis ..... 257 Therapeutics . . . . .257 Special F(etal Diseases . . . 258 Idiopathic Diseases of the Skin . . 258 Bones 259 Subcutaneous Tissue... 259 Various Systems .... 260 Transmitted Diseases, as Fevers, Syphilis, Tubercle, etc.. . . 260 Foetal Fract7ires, Dislocations, etc. . 262 F(etal Death 263 Pathology .... 264 Diagnosis ..... 264 Physiology.—The study of the intra-uterine diseases of the foetus is a subject which has been systematised only within recent years. The pathology of ante-natal life may be divided into three parts: the pathology of the germ, of the embryo, and of the foetus; and it is with the last-named portion that we have here to do. It has more in common with the path- ology of post-natal life than have the pathology of the embryo and that of the germ ; for it has mainly to do with diseases while these others have to do with monstrosities and malformations and predispositions. Nevertheless the diseases from which the foetus suffers show many peculiarities, and are not always recognisable as the same maladies as those which are met with in adult life or even in childhood. These peculiarities are due to certain circumstances, such as the intra-uterine environment, to which attention will be drawn immediately; in the meantime it is necessary to have some know- ledge of the physiology of foetal life. The physiology of the foetus throws much light upon its pathology. Its chief feature is its parasitism. The foetus spends the whole of its existence, about seven and a half months, in the interior of the uterus: it is immediately surrounded by the liquor amnii, which, serving as a natural water-cushion, protects it from sudden shocks and jars; the uterine walls, by their growth and distensibility, allow increase in size and freedom of movement to the foetus, while they shield it from harm, and maintain by their vascularity that constant temperature so needful for healthy development; and, external to the uterus, are the partly osseous, partly muscular pelvic and abdominal walls, which serve still further to secure the safety of the tender organism. In its protected posi- tion the foetus makes little call upon several of its organs ; its lungs are absolutely quiescent; its stomach, intestine, skin, kidneys, and lym- phatic glands are nearly so. The heart and liver, however, are active; the thymus, thyroid, supra-renal glands, and sympathetic system play a considerable part in the physiology of intra- uterine life; and the brain and spinal cord are capable of replying to all the demands made upon them. The most important of the foetal organs, however, is the placenta, although the foetus is only part-possessor in it, and it lies