246 PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—AFFECTIONS OF OVUM AND DECIDUA is reached, its separation being rendered difficult by the deep penetration of the degenerated villi into the maternal tissues, and their consequent firm attachment. The same circumstances often cause the expulsion of the mole, to be accom- panied by severe haemorrhage, and also favour the occurrence of septic infection and of subse- quent subinvolution. The diagnosis depends upon the recognition of the symptoms and signs of pregnancy followed by the disappearance of these, with the excep- tion of enlargement of the uterus. The growth of the uterus must then be observed, and if it is not proportionate to the advance of time the presence of vesicular degeneration must be suspected. The occurrence of irregular bleed- ing confirms the suspicion, which may be rendered a certainty by the appearance of vesicles in the discharges. In the absence of a clear history and of vesicles in the discharge, there is difficulty in distinguishing the condition from accidental hpemorrhage {see page 287), and it has also been confused with placenta prsevia and with hydramnios. It is impossible to dis- tinguish from fleshy mole a hydatid mole which has been retained dead in utero until shrunken and firm. True hydatid cysts have occasionally discharged their contents through the uterus or vagina, but in such cases a careful examination of the structures discharged at once reveals their true nature. The prognosis in vesicular degeneration of the chorion is always grave, as deaths from haemorrhage, anaemia, septicfemia, and pyaemia are frequently recorded. These, as well as perforation of the uterus, are favoured by the deep penetration of the uterine wall and the consequent firm attachment of the mole. Dorland estimates the mortality at 18 per cent. The prognosis must be considered still more grave in view of the fact that more than half the recorded cases of deciduoma or chorioma malignum have followed vesicular degeneration of the chorion. The uterus should be emptied as soon as the diagnosis is made, or before this can be done if bleeding is severe. If dilatation of the cervix has commenced, packing the vagina with gauze, or distending it with a rubber bag, may be sufficient to ensui'e expulsion of the mass. Otherwise tents may be used, with strict anti- septic precautions. It is important to secure complete dilatation, uterine contraction, and natural expulsion of the mass when possible. In any case, it is necessary to ascertain by digital examination that the uterine cavity is thoroughly clear, carefully avoiding injury to the uterine wall, and thereafter to take every precaution against septic infection and against subinvolution. Myxoma Fibrosum.—This name was applied by Virchow to a rare form of degeneration of the chorion, which results in the production of solid masses of fibro-myxomatous tissue instead of the more familiar cysts. Proliferation of the connective tissue cells of the cores of the villi is followed by some degree of fibrous change, the villi forming solid rods. The epithelium remains for the most part unchanged. This condition may be seen in the same specimen, together with cystic degeneration ; and it may also occur in portions of an otherwise healthy placenta, as happened in Virchow's case. Berry Hart has described a case of " fibrous mole," which was probably due to prolonged retention in utero of an ovum which had under- gone fibro-myxomatous degeneration. A patient had a threatening of abortion at the third month, and thereafter had slight occasional haemorrhages during nine months, at the end of which she expelled a pear-shaped mass measuring i\ by 1\ inches. On section this was seen to be composed almost entii'ely of a white glistening mass, coarsely granular, with a small amniotic cavity at the lower end, but no foetus. On microscopic examination the mass was seen to be made up of hypertrophied villi, the cores of which were made up of wavy fibrous tissue, with very few corpuscular elements, and hardly any vessels. Where the villi were not in contact with one another, their epithelium was fairly well presei-ved, but at other places the villi, intervillous spaces, and decidual cells were blended, the foetal epithelium being lost and the decidual cells well preserved. The intervillous spaces con- tained fibrin. Epithelioma of the Chorion, or Chorioma Maligmmi {Syn. : Syncytioma malignum).— The authors who have described cases of malignant disease under the above names consider the neoplasm in, question to be com- posed of foetal epiblast, that is, of chorionic epithelium, Avhich, they hold, invades the uterine tissues, and continuing to grow within the maternal organism, produces a new growth with metastatic deposits. For this reason, a description of the condition must be included amongst those of aflPections of the chorion. It has been mentioned above that other authorities consider similar, if not identical, new growths to be sarcomata of maternal origin. Clinical Features.—Parturition (in a few cases), abortion, or expulsion of a hydatid mole (in more than half the recorded cases) is followed by profuse intermittent haemorrhages and en- largement of the uterus, which usually begin a few weeks after the emptying of the uterus. In a case recorded by Whitridge Williams, bleeding was absent, the appearance of metastases first calling attention to the condition. In those of Runge, Lohlein, and others, the bleeding was delayed for some months. The haemorrhage causes profound anaemia, and putrid discharge of a watery character follows septic infection of the growth. Fever and cachexia supervene^