459 RABIES whelmed with intense grief and melancholy, which presents a striking contrast to his former mad fury. He rarely sleeps, starts up dream- ing, the mouth hangs open, the saliva cannot be swallowed ; fearing to injure his attendants, the patient begs them to put him out of his misery and end his life. The face and limbs are bathed in sweat, there is obstinate con- stipation, often vomiting of bile and blood. The urine is seldom passed, and is found to contain sugar and albumin. Samson and Chippingdale have observed heemoglobinuria and aglobulia. Genital disorders frequently supervene; the suflferer has emissions accom- panied with great pain, and forcing cries of agony. Fever increases as the prodromatic phase progresses; it abates slightly in the mornings. As death approaches the temperature rises very high, as much as 43°. Even after death it may still continue high. The pulse is rapid and intermittent. Death may result from asphyxia during the course of such an attack. The period of excitement may last one or two days; death invariably results from asphyxia or syncope. IV. Paralytic Period.—-This period only lasts a few hours. The sufferer loses all conscious- ness and falls into a state of collapse. In very rare cases consciousness may return at the point of death. Forms.—The ordinary form of rabies is characterised by a complete disorganisation of the whole nervous system. More rarely the furious and preliminary stages are absent and the rabies is manifested by paralysis from the outset; the paralysis appears, accompanied with acute local pains, mental depression, and other sensory troubles. The sufferer moves the bitten limb with difficulty, there is paresis with loss of co-ordination present; and later the paralysis becomes total. At first limited to a mono- plegia or paraplegia, it extends, accompanied by severe pain, to other regions of the body; tongue, face, eyes, bladder, rectum, and in- testinal muscles are all paralysed, and there is constipation and retention of urine. Lastly, though not invariably, the vital centres in the medulla are affected, breathing disorders set in, and with them true hydrophobia. The paralysis usually commences in the bitten limb ; occasionally it may begin in the opposite side. The paralysis comes on at a late stage, after the usual symptoms have set in. Finally, where subjects have been inoculated with Pasteur's vaccine, rabies appears in a more modified degree, limited to the prodromic phe- nomena, as observed by Chautemann, Roux, and Laveran. Rabies does not seem to depend on the kind of bite. Gamaleia contends, how- ever, that the worst bites bring on paralytic rabies; on the other hand, Di Vestea and | Zagari maintain that ordinary rabies results from bites on the head, and paralytic rabies or " dumb rabies " from bites on the lower limbs. Animal Rabies.—All the animal species suffer from the two forms of human rabies, namely, hydrophobia and dumb rabies. With dogs furious rabies is the most common, and exhibits itself in much the same way as in the human race. Depression, depraved appe- tite, hallucinations, fear of water, changed bark, dysphagia without hydrophobia, and fever. Presently the animal is seized with a frenzied restlessness, a determination to bite any thing or person he meets. Death follows paralytic collapse. Dumb rabies is exhibited by a slow paralysis which first centres in the muscles of the jaw. Death results in three or four days. Progress—Duration—Term ination — Pro- gnosis.—The course taken by rabies is progres- sive, rapid, and fatal. The bulbar phenomena precede the cortical phenomena ; the rabic virus mainly attacks the nerve centres. The duration is difficult to determine on account of variability in the prodromic period ; but from the first symptoms to the development of true hydrophobia the course is rapid, and death takes place in three or four days, in some cases even on the first day. Paralysis is slower, though not less fatal, death ensuing on the seventh or eighth day. Rabies is almost always fatal, and death is due to asphyxia or syncope. Death may also result from traumatism or suicide during the frenzied period. Veterinary surgeons have recorded cases of recovery from rabies in animals; pos- sibly these were mild cases of slight inoculation on an anterior part (Hagges). Laveran, Roux, and Chantemesse have recorded cases of rabies being cured when the patient underwent treat- ment at the Pasteur Institute. Novi and Poppi knew a case of a patient suffering from rabies, who by the twentieth day of the curative treat- ment was almost cured. It is thus evident that rabies is not necessarily absolutely fatal. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of human rabies as a rule is simple, though there are certain diseases which may simulate rabies. The imaginary hydrophobia of a bitten person is excited by suggestion in a neurotic subject. If the patient has some knowledge of the symp- toms of human rabies the diagnosis may be difficult. The patient may also imitate canine rabies. If it can be proved that the suspected dog was not mad, it may be well to assume, in the absence of a period of incubation, that the symptoms are merely hysterical stigmata simu- lating rabies. Tetamis has a much shorter period of incuba- tion, is always accompanied by contractions, especially a persistent trismus, but it never develops into real hydrophobia. Certain poisons, such as stramonium and