268 PEEGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—AFFECTIONS OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS forwards, and may be defined in front of the tumour, and the axis of the cervix directed doivnwards instead of forwards towards tlie symphysis pubis. In the other conditions, besides the same physical signs, there is not likely to be amenorrhoea or other signs of pregnancy. Treatment.—The first step is to empty the bladder. Difficulties are sometimes met with here. The points to attend to are, to use a gum elastic catheter, not a glass or other rigid one, or one of soft indiarubber; the passing the instrument must be carefully guided by a finger in the vagina passed well up in front to the cervix; and, lastly, to remember that from the drawing up, stretching, and elongation of the urethra, the instrument may have to pass a greater distance than usual before the water is reached. It is not well in all cases to proceed at once to attempt rectification of the position of the uterus. It is advisable to have the bowels well acted upon by a saline purge, not merely emptied by enemata. Further, the pelvic vessels are certain to be distended, and the tissues more or less oedematous. These con- ditions are relieved by the saline, and by rest for some hours in the semiprone position. After this preliminary treatment, rectification should be tried. With the patient in a favourable position— semiprone or knee-shoulder—and in some cases imder an ansestlietic, the operation is at times readily effected ; at others, repeated trials have to be made. After a failure of this kind, it not unfrequently has been found that the uterus has spontaneously rectified itself, or that the desired effect has been obtained by the introduction into the vagina of a hydrostatic bag or elastic ring pessary. No doubt the manipulation in the futile attempts may have modified the conditions that caused the incar- ceration, but the fact that means so simple have effected replacement, after careful taxis has failed, is interesting and instructive. The lessons it teaches are, that the difficulty in most cases is not to be overcome all at once by strenuous efforts; that the primary idea under which to work is not to secure immedi- ate elevation of the fundus above the brim, but to correct the version and prolapse; effect this, even partially, and nature will likely do the rest. To accomplish the necessary rotation of the uterus upon itself with a minimum of force, two forces are required: one acting upwards on the body of the uterus, the other downwards on the cervix. The latter is the more difficult to apply. Through a thin ab- dominal wall pressure may be applied externally above the pubis, or the finger internally may exert sufficient pressure on the cervix, but it is difficult to get a purchase in this manner. Failing these, a hold may be taken of the anterior cervical lip with a button volsellum; it does not wound the surface, but no great force should be exerted, lest the tissues be torn. It is not the amount, but the direction of the force that is effectual. Vei-y instructive also are the good results obtained by Professor Playfair, who used a hydrostatic bag in the vagina, and by Pro- fessor Japp Sinclair, who introduces an ordinary watch-spring ring pessary. He reports fifteen consecutive cases without a failure. Now such instruments cannot exert a force sufficient of itself to elevate the fundus, such as is artifici- ally applied in the ordinary taxis. An elastic pessary lying in the vagina may exert some pressure, but the direction is backwards towards the hollow of the sacrum, not upwards towards the brim. Then again, in seeking to explain their action, the fact must not be lost sight of, that, after a futile attempt at rectification, the natural processes have spontaneously righted the uterus. It is the latter that are the active agents: the action of a pessary is passive. A pessary is not a lever, as has often been supposed ; it may, however, act as a fulcrum. During pregnancy, the natural forces normally tend to elevate the fundus, even when retroverted; but in certain cases this tendency is reversed— the cervix is elevated, the fundus is more and more depressed. The factor in such cases that has been hitherto disregarded is in all proba- bility the varying degrees of prolapse that are associated with the retroversion. By the intro- duction of artificial support from below, the tendency to movement in the wrong direction is corrected, and the natural powers so enforced rectify the malposition. The disastrous effects that occasionally have been met with arise from carelessness in ex- amination, and late recognition of the real nature of the case. The more the above facts are recognised, the less strenuous will be the attempts at immediate rectification, and rarer the occurrence of irreducible cases. Irreducible Retro - displacement. — With the present greater appreciation of the value of rest, the use of anaesthetics, and the greater know- ledge of the natural powers, aided, it may be, to ovei'come the obstruction, it must indeed be rare to meet with a case that must be pronounced irreducible and demands further interference. Yet such cases have, and pos- sibly may again occur. Strong adhesions may be the cause. Left uni-educed, serious conse- quences are certain to arise. Abortion may be induced; but the conditions render the operation difficult and liable to be incomplete, and to be followed by inflammation and sepsis. Olshausen and others have removed the whole uterus by the vaginal method. But in the pi-esent day, if the more rational methods have failed and urgent symptoms threaten, coeliotomy, separation of any adhesions, and