I PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES sodium phosphate are therefore present together in the plasma. If carbon dioxide is passed into a sokition of sodium phosphate it appropriates a certain amount of the sodium, changing Na^PO^ to NaHPO^. This is what happens in the tissues where CO2 is abundant. In the kings, where the blood is '.if -.J" Fig. 112.—Section of a lymph gland, a, Caiisule; 6, germ centres of cortex; c, sinuses; d, trabecula; e, germ centres of medulla. exposed to an atmosphere poor in COg, the PgO^ again seizes on the Na, turning out the CO.,. But the proteins of the blood also act in the same way as weak acids, being turned out of their combination with bases by the mass action of CO2, and thus acting as carriers of COj. In the corpuscles the hfemoglobin acts as an acid. When the amount of CO., is great, haemoglobin is turned out of its combination with bases. But when the pressure of CO^ is low the haemoglobin turns it out. For this reason it is possible to remove all the CO2 from whole blood in an air-pump, but not possible to remove it from blood plasma. In fact, the carriage of carbon dioxide and its excretion are mainly the result of a struggle between that gas on the one hand and the proteins and phosphoric acid on the other, for the bases of the plasma. Nitroijen.—The amount of nitrogen in the blood is not in excess of what can be held in solution, and we may therefore infer that it is simply dissolved in the blood plasma. V. Source of the Blood Constituents A. Of the Plasma.—The water of the blood is derived almost entirely from the water ingested. The source of the proteins has not been fully investigated. Undoubtedly they are partly derived, somewhat indirectly as we shall after- wards see, from the proteins of the food. Very probably, too, they are in part derived from the tissues. But the significance of the two proteins, albumin and globulin, and of their variations has not yet been elucidated. The glucose is derived from the carbohydrates and possibly from the proteins of the food, and during starvation it is constantly produced in the liver and poured into the blood (p. 74). The fats are derived from the fats and carbo- hydrates, and possibly from the proteins of the food. The urea and other waste constituents are derived from the various tissues. B. Of the Cells. —I. Leucocytes.—In the em- bryo these are first developed from the meso- blast cells generally. In extra-uterine life they are formed in the lymph tissue and in the I'ed marrow of bone. 1. Lymph tissue {see vol. vii. p. 499) is very widely distributed in the body, occurring either in patches of varying shape and size, or as regular organs, the lymphatic glands (Fig. 112). These are placed on the course of lymphatic vessels, and consist of a sponge-work of fibrous tissue, in the interstices of which are set the patches of lymph tissue or cjerm centres, each surrounded by a more open network, the sinus, through which the lymph flows, carrying away the lympho- cytes, which are the characteristic elements produced, from the germ centres. Ptound some of the lymphatic glands of certain animals large blood spaces or sinuses are seen, and these glands are called hsemolymph glands (Fig. 114). They are intermediate between lymphatic glands and the spleen. When erythrocytes are destroyed by hfemolytic agents, the pigment and the iron derived from the hsemoglobin are often found abundantly in the cells in the sinuses of lymph and hfemolymph glands. Fia. 113.—Sectionof red marrow of bone, a, Lymphocyte ; 6, fat cell; c, erythroblast; d, giant cell; e, erythrocyte ; /, ery- throblast in mitosis ; </, neutrophil myelocyte; h, eosino- phil myelocyte; k, eosinophil leucocyte ; I, polymorpho- nuclear leucocyte. 2. Bone Marroiv. — The structure of bone marrow is considered below, but it may be stated here that young leucocytes or leuco- blasts, in the condition of mitosis, are abundant, and that they pass away in the blood stream. They are of all varieties. In certain patho- logical conditions the formation of these cells is increased and a leucocytosis results (Fig. 113). II. Erythrocytes.—In the embryo these cells