PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 60 duces vomiting, causes a reflex stimulation of salivary secretion. According to the investigations of Pavloff, the salivary glands react appropriately to different kinds of stimuli through their nervous mechanism. When sand or bitter or saline substances are put in a dog's mouth, a profuse secretion of very watery saliva ensues to wash them out. When flesh is given, a saliva rich in mucin is produced. When diy food is given, saliva is produced in greater quantity than when moist food is supplied. Pavloff" further states that the sight of different kinds of food produces a flow of the kind of saliva which their presence in the mouth would produce. ii. Swallowing.—The food after being masti- cated is collected on the surface of the tongue v Fig. 160.—Vertical mesial section of mouth and pharynx to show how, in swallowing, the food slips along the back of the epiglottis. Pi?., Pharynx ; C.B., cushion of epiglottis; P.C., tip of arytenoid cartilages ; CR., cricoid cartilage. by the voluntary action of the buccinators and other muscles, and then, the point of the tongue being pressed against the hard palate behind the teeth, by a contraction of the tongue passing from before backwards, the bolus of food is driven backwards. When the posterior part of the tongue is reached the act becomes purely reflex, and the food is forced through the pillars of the fauces into the pharynx. It is prevented from passing up into the posterior nares by the contraction of the palato-pharyn- geus muscle, and of the levatores palati. The larynx is pulled upwards as a whole by the stylo-hyoid and stylo-thyroid and the thyro- hyoid muscles, and the entrance of food is pre- vented by the closure of upjier part of aperture. The arytenoid cartilages are pulled forward by the thyro-arytenoid muscles, and approximated by the arytenoidei, while a cushion on the pos- terior surface of the epiglottis becomes applied to their tips, forming a tri-radiate fissure or chink through which food cannot pass. The lateral crico-arytenoids also approximate the vocal cords, and close the glottis (Fig. 160). The constrictors of the pharynx contract from above downwards, and force the food into the grasp of the oesophagus, and this by a slow peristaltic contraction sends the food onwards to the stomach. This peristalsis is abolished by section of the vagi, and it is generally not essential to swallowing. In swallowing liquids it is not brought into play, but the fluid is forced by the tongue down the relaxed oeso- phagus into the stomach. The passage of the food into the stomach may be heard as a gurgling sound by applying a stethoscope to the right side of the spinal column, and any delay caused by a stricture may thus be determined. Normally the process takes five or six seconds. In swallowing fluids two sounds are heard, one immediately, and one after about six seconds. iii. Digestion in the Stomach. — Various opportunities have occurred and have been taken advantage of to study the interior of the human stomach during life. The best known investigation of the kind was undertaken by Dr Beaumont, a Canadian physician, on the person of St Martin, a backwoodsman, who had received a gunshot wound in the abdomen, which had left him with an opening through the front wall of his stomach. Dr Beaumont engaged St Martin as his servant, and made a prolonged and valuable study of the changes which take place in the viscus. AVithin recent years the most important work FlQ. 161.—Diagram of Pavloff's pouch made on the stomach of a dog. has been accomplished by Pavloff on dogs. His method is to make a small gastric pouch open- ing on the surface and separated from the rest