PEEGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—AFFECTIONS OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS 265 to pathological changes in their tissues. When .such cases occur, questions of grave importance may arise as to the risks which the patients run, and the proper means of management. What concerns us at present is not so much the discussion of the ever changing views regarding treatment, as the clinical recognition of those defects, and the experience which has been accumulated as to their influence on pregnancy and dangers that may occur, or in other words, the knowledge upon which the solution of questions in individual cases should be based. 1. Malformations op the Uterus and Vagina.—The nature of the various anomalies of the generative tract and their clinical features can be readily understood by re- membering the origin and development of the ■organs from the two Mlillerian ducts. All the varieties are explained by the retention in whole or in part of this duplex character, and by an imperfect development of one half in •comparison with that of the other. Normally the union is complete from below as high as the Fallopian tubes, between which is developed the fundus uteri, whilst by total absorption of the septum the uterine body, the cervix, and the vagina form a single canal. In any of these respects, throughout, or at any one part, the development may be imperfect, and •so are produced the various anomalies that have now to be noted. Thefund2is alone may be imperfectly formed, ^ind show a flattening or depression instead -of the usual convexity—uterus ar-cuatus, s. corduatus. This defect may be associated internally with some remains of the septum. Pregnancy is not affected thereby, but it may have an influence in the production of mal- positions of the head (Auvard), and where a partial septum is present lead to difficulty with the placenta. Other abnormalities arrange themselves under various types, the distinctive characters of which may be more or less pronounced in different cases. Uterus Septus.—Here the external formation is normal, with perhaps a slight increase in width, but the septum remains, dividing the cavity more or less completely into two. The septum may be only partial, uterus subseptus, •or it may extend to the internal os, or even into the cervical canal, but the external os is single. Uterus Bicornis.—Here the duplex character is indicated externally by the uterine body being divided into two distinct cornua, at a varying height above the cervix, each horn terminating in its own Fallopian tube, but with a common cervix, the canal of which may be single or double. Uterus Didelphys. — In this rarest variety the separation is complete, two single uteri lying side by side, each possessing its own os uteri and cervical canal, but only one tube, ovary, and round ligament. The vagina may be single, or duplicated in whole or in part. It is doubtful if pregnancy occurs in this variety. Uterus Unicornis.—Where one half has been well developed, presenting a spindle formation ending in the Fallopian tube, the other half remaining in a rudimentary state or imperfectly developed form. In any of the above duplex conditions one half may have no communication with the general canal. The menstrual fluid in that half will then be retained, giving rise to a tumour the nature of which may be difficult to diagnose. The vagina may be double throughout, even when the cervix and uterus are single; or partial remains of the septum may be present, forming a band of tissue across the canal. Such anomalies in development do not inter- fere with the possibility of pregnancy so long as ovulation takes place, and there is no oc- clusion in the generative tract. If, on the other hand, the impregnated ovum is prevented entering the uterine cavity, the case belongs to ectopic gestation. In the same category must be placed the rare cases where the ovum has been lodged in an imperfectly developed half, having no communication with the fully developed horn or the vagina. In such a case rupture into the peritoneal cavity is likely to occur about the third or fourth month, or if the foetus dies before rupture, it may be indefinitely retained. Diagnosis.—With a double or one-horned uterus, pregnancy is not uncommon — much more frequent, indeed, than is recognised. From various circumstances, the condition may very readily be overlooked. As a rule, the course of pregnancy is not disturbed, and labour is easy and natui'al, and in some forms, as in the iiterus septus, the abnormality can be discovered only when occasion calls for the introduction of the hand into the uterus. Even where it might be possible in the non- gravid state, or early pregnancy, to recognise the condition from the abnormal shape of the uterus, this may be considerably obscured in advanced pregnancy or in labour. In a uterus unicornis the spindle shape is much altered, and in uterus bicornis, where one horn only is pregnant, it may lie in front of and conceal the other. A double vagina calls for careful examination of the uterus; for although it may be present with normal conditions above, it is always a possible indication of other anomalies. The presence of two os uteri and complete double vagina are sure signs of a duplex uterine cavity. When both divisions are pregnant, a diagnosis