PULSE, THE 414 contracts prematurely. It is not improbable that in some cases a toxic condition of the blood acts as an exciting cause. In elderly patients Fig. 77. -Regular irregularity after every third pulse-beat; p marks the occurrence of a premature systole. of gouty habit this type of pulse irregularity is very common, and would sometimes seem to be accentuated during the height of an attack. The intrinsic ganglia of the heart may also become unduly excitable, but it is unlikely that the vagus plays any part in the production of this type of irregularity. Stimulation of the vagus slows the heart, whereas the pulse is often rapid when pre- mature systoles occur. Pulse Irregularities due directly to Respiration.—Before leaving this sub- ject mention may be made of another type of pulse irregularity which is apparently due to respiratory causes. Attention may at present be directed to those irregularities which occur with normal or slightly exaggerated breathing. Those forms which are dependent upon laboured or otherwise abnormal respiratory movements will be discussed in a subsequent section. the shorter waves correspond to the height of the inspiratory phase. Other tracings show the same features, and this irregularity is sometimes present vxnder chloroform anaesthesia, when the respirations are deep. It is obviously sometimes difficult, if not impossible, to decide in what manner respiration brings abovit these altera- tions in pulse form and rhythm. But we may take it for granted that they are not always induced in the same way, and in many cases the action of the vagus in their production is not excited by respiratory influence on the medulla. More than one pulse-wave in the series may be affected in the manner described by each in- FlG. 78.—Regular irregularity after every fourth pulse-beat The first type of irregularity of this kind is that in which the inspiratory movement is speci- ally concerned. When the tracing is examined, it is noticed that some of the pulse-waves in the series are of smaller size than others. The appear- ance is not quite the same as that of the ordinary form of youth- ful irregularity already described. I append a tracing from a baby five months old, where this character can be easily recognised (Fig. 82). When a simultaneous respiratory record is made it is found that Fia. 79.—Gradual development of the premature systole {p) in the case of regular irregularity after every third beat. See Fig. 77. spiratory movement, and sometimes the curves occurring during expiration are unusually large. A tracing from a girl, twelve years of age, sufFer- ing from chronic rheu- matic arthritis, shows these characters, and this form of respiratory modi- fication of the pulse often occurs in children (Fig. 83). The irregularity shown in this tracing evidently bears a close relationship to the re- characters are not quite of the ordinary type of spiratory curve ; its the same as those youthful irregularity. The strong pulse-beat after the irregularity. Pulse and Respiration Importance of making Graphic Records of both Events.—Pulse and respiration is a com-