363 PUERPERIUM, PATHOLOGY OF the pneumococcus, diphtheria bacillus, and putrefactive saprophytes. As regards the second, or the ground upon which the seed is sown, the condition of a preg- nant or parturient woman is in many ways more favourable to the development of micro-organisms than at other times. She is in a state of plethora, hydrsemia, hyperinosis, and leucocythemia. The total quantity of blood is increased, it is more watery, and contains more fibrin and a larger proportion of white cells, and is loaded with effete matter derived from the foetus and the genital organs during their involution. The blood-vessels and lymphatics, especially in the genital organs and their immediate neighbour- hood, are dilated and hypertrophied, and the nervous system is in a peculiarly irritable con- dition. The skin about the vulva is always in- fected with micro-organisms, often of a malignant kind, and the vagina also frequently swarms with microbes, some of which are indistinguish- able microscopically from the most dangerous of their kind. The vaginal flora has attracted considerable attention. Doderlein, for example, published the results of his investigations in 1892, from which he concluded that vaginal discharges might be classified as normal and pathological. The normal were met with in something over half the cases examined, and were characterised by a consistence of clotted cream, intensely acid reaction, and by containing a pure culture of an organism which he called the vaginal bacillus, and to which he attributed the production of the lactic acid to which the reaction was due. The pathological discharge was of thinner consistence, often puriform in appearance, sometimes containing bubbles of gas feebly acid, neutral, or even alkaline in re- action, and swarming with micro-organisms, some of which were dangerous. The normal discharges he discovered by experiment to be not only innocuous, but even antiseptic, and capable of destroying staphylococci and other germs introduced into the vagina. Kroenig, who re- peated Doderlein's experiments, agreed with him as to the antiseptic properties of the normal discharge, but denied that it was due to the vaginal bacillus, and found that the so-called pathological discharges, which did not contain this organism, also possessed similar bactericidal properties. Menge attributed the germicidal powers of the vagina to: (1) the antagonism of the normal microbic flora to pathogenic organ- isms; (2) the products of the life process of vaginal bacilli; (3) the acidity of the discharge ; (4) the germicidal powers of the anatomical ele- ments of the vagina; (5) phagocytosis; and (6) the absence of free oxygen. Walthard found that the vagina often contained pathogenic microbes, but they were not virulent, and be- haved as saprophytes, producing no results when inoculated upon healthy tissues, but becoming virulent when in contact with dead tissues or those whose vitality and powers of resistance had been reduced. From all these investigations we may conclude that the vagina contains germs which are harmless under normal conditions, but which may sometimes become dangerous in the presence of dead matter or tissue whose vitality has been reduced by crushing and bruising in prolonged and difficult labours, and may also be productive of harm if carried upwards into the uterus. The cavity of this organ and the tubes are usually aseptic, and the former is protected from invasion by the cervical operculum. This plug of mucus, though not in itself germicidal, furnishes no nutriment for micro-organisms, yet its lower part is often found to contain vaginal bacteria and leucocytes. The middle portion contains leucocytes only, and the upper neither leucocytes nor bacteria. It may therefore be described as consisting of septic, antiseptic, and aseptic zones. We see then that although the system of a pregnant woman is peculiarly favour- able to the growth of septic organisms, yet nature has provided sufficient protection against their invasion under ordinary circumstances. During labour also nature is fully competent to avert evil; and the washing out of the vagina by the liquor amnii, and its further cleansing by the descent of the foetus and its afterbirth, tend in the same direction, whereas vaginal examina- tions, the introduction of instruments, and douches counteract these safeguai'ds, and are liable to carry septic matter upwards. In con- cluding our remarks upon the seat of infection, we must not forget that open woiuids or un- protected surfaces are always present in women who have recently been delivered ; for not only are the vagina and the cervix frequently torn or abraded, but the interior of the uterus, from which the decidua has been separated, and especially the placental site, must be regarded as a wounded surface. Thirdly, as regards the modes of infection. The micro-organisms which we have seen are often present in the vagina before delivery are a possible source of mischief, but whether they are ever the cause of puerperal infection has not yet been decided. Semmelweis taught that fever could originate in this way, and described it as auto-infection, and Ahlfeld thoroughly supports this view; but others, considering how infrequently women who are delivered without assistance are attacked by serious ill- ness, deny the possibility of auto-infection. But I think the majority of those who have carefully weighed the evidence on both sides consider that such a mode of infection is certainly possible, though exceedingly rare, and that it might be due not only to the vaginal micro- organisms, but to those also which are occasion- ally present both in the uterus and the tubes. In the vast majority of cases the infective material has been conveyed to the patient on the hands of her attendants, or on their instru-