193 PORETTA Poretta,. See Balneology {Italy, Sulphur Waters). Porocephalus Constrict us. See Parasites {Arthropods, Arachnoidea). PoroplastiC.—The name given to a kind of porous felt which becomes plastic when heated and can therefore be moulded to the body; it is used as a splint in various surgical conditions. PorrigCO.—The name given somewhat loosely to various skin diseases characterised by scaly eruptions (Lat. porrigo, scurf), e.g. porrigo favosa or favus. See Impetigo. Porro'S Operation. See Labour, Obstetric Operations {Ccesareari Section, Porro's Operation); Pregnancy, Affections of Genera- tive Organs {Fibroid Tumours and Pregnancy); Pregnancy, Hemorrhage {Accidental HcBmor- rhage, Treatment). Porta.—The hilus or " gate " of an organ, through which the vessels and other structures enter the organ, e.g. the po7-ta hepatis, while the vein entering the porta hepatis is called the portal vein or vena portoe. Portal Vein. See Ascites {Causation, Portal Cirrhosis, etc.); Liver {Portal Throm- bosis). Porte-Caustique.~An instrument for applying caustic {e.g. nitrate of silver) to a part of the body, e.g. the corpus or cervix uteri. Porter-Clark's Process.—A method of removing hardness from water by adding hydrated calcium oxide and removing the pre- cipitate by filtration through canvas under pressure. Portio.—A part, e.g. the cervix uteri, and portio dura, the facial nerve (the auditory nerve being the portio mollis). Portobello. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Scotch). Portug^al. See Balneology {Spain and Portugal). Port-Wine Mark. See Capillaries, Diseases of {Ncevus). PoruS.—A small opening or pore, e.g. the porus opticus, through which the central artery of the retina passes. Position.—The posture or attitude into which a patient is put for purposes of examina- tion or operation {e.g. the genu-pectoral position, the hthotomy position, Sims' position, etc.); or the relation which the foetus in utero bears to the pelvis of the mother {e.g. the left occipito- anterior position, the right mento-posterior VOT,. VTII position, etc.). See Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism {Positions). POSOlOg'y.—The department of medicine which has to do with the dosage of drugs. See Prescribing ; Metric System ; and under the various drugs. Possession.—The mental state associ- ated with wildness or extravagance of behaviour or with actual insanity; the name originated in the old belief that a person so affected was possessed by a demon or evil spirit. See In- sanity, Nature and Symptoms ; Lunacy ; Medicine, History of ; etc. Post-. — In compound words post- (Lat. post, after or behind) means after (in time) or behind (in space), e.g. post - choreic (following chorea), post-embryonic (after the embryonic stage is past), postanal (behind the anus), post- ethmoid (behind the ethmoid bone), and many other words. Postapoplectic Insanity.—insan- ity following upon an apoplectic seizure. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Etiological Varieties). Postcentral.—Situated behind the cen- tral fissure (fissure of Rolando) of the brain, e.g. the sulcus postcentralis inferior, the postcentral line, etc. Post Cl i m acte ri C—Occurring after the climacteric or menopause, e.g. postclimacteric metrorrhagia, postclimacteric insanity, etc. PostCOnnubial.—Occurring after mar- riage, e.g. postconnubial insanity; postnuptial. PostCUbital.—Situated behind the fore- arm. Postd i astO I i C.—Following the dilatation or diastole of the heart. Postd i erotic. — Occurring after the dicrotic wavelet of the sphygmographic tracing. See Pulse {Sphygmograms). Postdiphtheritic. — Following diph- theria, especially as a sequel of the same, e.g. postdiphtheritic paralysis. See Diphtheria {Complications). PostenteriC.—Occurring after typhoid fever. See Typhoid Fever {Sequelae). Postepileptic.—Occurring after an attack of epilepsy. See Epilepsy {Prognosis, Mental Degeneration). POSterO-.—In compound words postero- means posterior to, and appears in such words Sispostero-external, postero-lateral, postero-median, postero-temporal, etc. Postfebrile.—Following fever. 13