PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 29 is produced. Such a condition is seen in certain glands during activity. C. Venous Pulse 1. The absence of a general venous pulse has been already explained. But just as in the capillaries so in the veins, a local pulse may develop. 2. In the veins entering the auricles a pulse occurs, but a pulse having no resemblance to A.S. V.5. p b \ ' \ / \ / \ t \ : a \ ' ! \ ' V Flo. 133.—Tracings of the pulse in the great veins in relationship to the cardiac cycle. normal venous pulse. - - - - a and h venous pulse in tricuspid Incompetence. the arterial pulse, although depending on the same three factors. Its form is indicated in Fig. 133. Its features are to be explained as follows :— Blood is constantly flowing into the great veins, pressed on from behind. When the auricles contract, the outflow from these veins into the heart is suddenly checked, and conse- quently the veins distend. At the moment of auricular diastole the outflow is again free, a rush of blood takes place into the distending auricles, and thus the pressure in the veins falls. But as this is occurring, blood is shot from the ventricles into the arteries, and the carotid, lying behind the jugular vein, transmits its pulse to the vein as a crest. While the ventricle is contracted blood cannot pass on from the auricles, and hence it accumulates in the great vein and makes a third crest at the end of ventri- cular systole. At the moment when the ventricles dilate a sudden rush of blood takes place from the veins and auricles into the ventricles, and thus a sudden fall in the pressure is produced. Gradually, as the ventricles fill, the pressure in the auricles and veins increases and they are again ex- panded. This is the normal venous pulse. But, if the auriculo-ventricular valves are incompetent, blood is forced back into the auricles and veins ■when the ventricles contract, and a crest develops after the carotid crest which it may replace. The height of this crest is a good index of the amount of regurgitation. Respiratory Variations in Blood Pressure.— Not only do rhythmic changes in the arterial pressure occur with each beat of the heart, but larger changes are caused by the respirations— the rise in pressure in great measure correspond- ing to the phase of inspiration, the fall in pressure to the phase of expiration. This state- ment is not quite accurate, as will be seen when considering the influence of respiration on circu- lation (see p. 45). These variations are easily seen in a tracing of the arterial pressure taken with the mercurial manometer (Fig. 134). A pulse synchronous with the respirations may also be observed in the great veins at the root of the neck and in the venous sinuses of the cranium when it is opened. With each inspiration they tend to collapse, with each expiration they again expand. The reason for this is that during inspiration the pressure inside the thorax becomes low and hence blood is sucked from the veins into the heart, while during expiration the intra-thoracic pressure becomes higher and thus the entrance of blood into the heart is opposed. 3. Mean Blood Pressure I. Pressure in the Arteries.—A. Methods.— The first investigation of the pressure in the blood-vessels was made by the Rev. Stephen Hales in 1733. He fixed a long glass tube in the femoral artery of a horse laid on its back, and found that the pressure supported a column of blood of 8 feet 3 inches, while, when the tube was placed in a vein, only 1 foot was supported. Fig. 134.—Tracing of the arterial l)lood pressure to show large respira- tory variations, and small variations due to heart beats upon these, and the sudden fall in the pressure produced by stimulat- ing the inferior cardiac branch of the vagus nerve. The capillary pressure is, of course, intermediate between these two. At the present time, instead of letting the blood pressure act directly against the force of gravity, it is found more convenient, in studying the pressure in an artery, to let it act through a column of mercury placed in a U tube (Fig. 135, A). To record the changes in pressure a float is placed upon the mercury