574 RHEUMATISM, CHRONIC relationship. Among the diseases here referred to may be mentioned erythema, psoriasis, lichen, iritis, and chronic middle ear disease. In chil- dren many other subacute and chronic indica- tions of disease are of rheumatic origin {vide "Rheumatism in Children," p. 550). The clinical features of chronic rheumatism are perhaps best illustrated by short records of cases met with in practice. Those selected are characteristically common types, and it is needless to say that every grade of severity and various combinations of these types are met with in everyday practice. The probable relationship of these various types to each other will be referred to later under the etiology of the disease. Mr. L., get. 30.—Chronic myositis of the neck muscles; recurring arthritis in left hip and knee; deafness of middle ear origin (non-sup- purative) ; acne and blind boils. The hereditary history showed a distinct tendency to rheumatism. The joint trouble was confined to the left side, a feature which was probably correctly attributed by the patient to the results of a previous injury to tlae thigh, through being heavily thrown from a horse. The patient complained of a marked sense of discomfort in the head and neck, but had become accustomed to this feeling, and did not associate it with a local condition. Examina- tion showed that the muscles at the back of the neck were unnaturally firm and contracted, the movements of extension and rotation of the head were restricted, the hip joint revealed creaking and limitation of movement; examination of the ear showed that the tympanic membrane itself was apparently normal, the structural changes in the middle ear were obviously of articular origin. This case illustrates three interesting points— (i.) A definite lesion in the muscles—chronic myositis (probably also cellulitis), a condition that is common and apt to be overlooked. (ii.) The tendency to develop manifestations of rheumatism in a joint previously weakened, e.g. by a trauma, etc. (iii.) The coexistence of the local disease in the ear with a general constitutional disturbance. (iv.) A special liability to the pathogenic influence of bacteria on the skin surface. Mr. M., set. 46.—Chronic rheumatism in left shoulder joint; otherwise in apparently perfect health. Mr. M. regards himself as in perfect general health. The only things that trouble him are his left shoulder and, occasionally, fleeting pains in other parts of the body. The joint condition has developed slowly, and has never been seriously treated. There is no distinct rheu- matic history. The shoulder joint shows dis- tinct muscular ati'ophy, limitation of movement, occasional creaking, and some irregularity at the head of the bone. Subjective symptoms rule, only complained of after a day's outdoor exercise, after which the left arm is for a time practically useless. There is no history of gonorrhoeal infection in this case. This case illustrates a very localised area of naturally weak power of resistance to the action of the rheumatic poison. Mr. N., set. 70.—Attack of subacute rheu- matism when set. 45; chronic arthritis in the knee joints since set. 65; deafness of nerve origin. Mr. N. leads a most active life physically and mentally; his general health is regarded by himself as excellent. He lives well, and has always done so. His joint disease makes him distinctly lame, but the pain complained of is inconsiderable, and always worst in the morn- ing and on rising from a chair or couch. The right knee joint is most involved and is markedly enlarged, the swelling appearing to be largely confined to the soft tissues, especially in the anterior and superior aspects of .the joint. There is well-marked creaking, but no new bony for- mations can be made out. The movement of flexion of the knee is restricted, and the ham- string muscles are strongly contracted. This case is chiefly interesting as showing— (a) An acute onset (when set. 45) of a rheu- matism which was apparently distinct from an ordinary attack of rheumatic fever. (6) The association of a local disease in one of the special senses, along with the general manifestations. (c) A fairly strong power of resistance to the virus of rheumatism, indicated by the limited nature and severity of the disease in a man of this age and history. Mrs. 0., set. 60.—Rheumatoid arthritis, acute onset; chronic rheumatism. At the age of 50 patient suffered from acute attacks of pain and swelling in the joints of the hands, ankles, and, to a less degree, of the wrist. The pain was evidently severe, as she was kept under morphia for some time. About the same time she began to complain of stiffness and weakness in the muscles in diff"erent parts of the body, a feature which persisted more or less for years, and is still present. Treatment by a change of climate, hydro-tlierapeutic measures, diet, and massage seemed to exert a favourable influence on the disease. Since the age of 55 the joint lesions have not progressed, but since that time she has had one severe attack of brachial neuritis and an acute attack of lumbago, and has been intermittently subject to marked pain and weakness in the limbs, and severe cramp in the muscles of the legs at night. At the present time there is considerable en- largement of all the joints of the hand, except the terminal joints, with distortion of the fingers, but no pain or limitation of movement. There is marked local muscular atrophy. One striking feature of this case which attracted the