RHEUMATISM, ACUTE 537 Rheumatism.—This subject is dis- cussed under the following sections :— 1. Acute Rheumatism .... 537 2. Rheumatism in Children . 550 3. Rheumatoid Arthritis 559 4. Chronic Rheumatism . .573 See also Adrenal Glands, Addison's Disease {Diagnosis, Pigmentation in Rhetmnatoid Ar- thritis) ; Alcohol {Indications in Rheumatism); AN.ffiMiA {Causal Factors, Rheumatism); Audi- toby Nerve and Labyrinth {Nerve-Deafness, Toxic); Balneology {In Disorders of Nutrition); Bone, Diseases of {Osteomyelitis, Diagnosis); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Cerebral Embolism, Causes); Bronchi, Bronchitis (Acute, Etiology); BuRS^, Injuries and Diseases of {Bursitis, Rheumatic); Children, Clinical Examination of (Neck, Stiffness); Chorea {Etiology); Cornea {Localised Keratitis, Causes); Deformities {Flat-Foot, Diagnosis; Metatars- algia, Diagnosis) ; Dengue (Diagnosis); Dia- thesis (Rheumatic); Dysentery (Diagnosis) ; Eczema (Etiology); Electricity (Electric Bath in Rheumatism); H^emoglobinuria (Causes) ; Hemophilia (Diagnosis, Joint Affections of Rheumatism); Heart, Myocardium and Endo- cardium (General Pathology, Etiology); Hip- Joint, Diseases of (Acute and Chronic Rheu- matism); Hydropathy (Acihte Rheumatism, etc.); Hypnotism (In Rheumatism); Hysteria in Childhood (Etiology); Insanity, Etiology of ; Insanity, Nature and Symptoms (Etiological Classification); Iris and Ciliary Bodies (In- flammation of Iris, Rheumatic Iritis); Joints, Diseases of (Constitutional Conditions); Larynx, Neuroses of (Laryngeal Paralysis, Varieties); Menopause (Associated Disorders, Rheumatoid Arthritis); Menstruation and its Disorders (Dysmenorrhoea, Varieties, Systemic Causes); Meteorology (Influence on Health, Cold and Damp); Miliaria (Acute, Causes); Nails, Affec- tions OF THE (In ActUe Rheumatism) ; Nerves, Peripheral (Neuritis, Causes); Nerves, Mul- tiple Peripheral Neuritis (General Etiology); Nerves, Neuralgia (Etiology); Ocular Muscles, Affections of (Paralysis, Etiology) ; Pericar- dium, Diseases of (Pericarditis, Etiology); Peri- toneum, Acute Peritonitis (Clinical Varieties, Rheumatic); Pleura, Diseases of (Pleurisy, Etiology); Pulse (Rate arid Temperatu7'e in Rheumatic Fever) ; Sclerotic, Diseases of (Sclerotitis, Causes); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases OF (Orchitis, Causes; Testalgia, Causes); Septicemia {Differential Diagnosis); Shoulder, Diseases and Injuriesof(Rheumatoid Arthritis); Spine, Surgical Affections of (Spondylitis Deformans); Syphilis (Secondary, " Rheumatic Pains") ; Tabes Dorsalis [Sensory Symptoms, Pains); Teeth (Dental Caries, Causes, Saliva in Rheumatism); Teeth (Diseases of Peridental Membrane, Etiology) ; Tetany (Pathogeny) ; Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Climate for Rheumatism) ; Thyroid Gland, Medical (Acute Thyroiditis, Causes) ; Trades, Dangerous (Mer- curialism. Diagnosis) ; Undulant Fever (Diag- nosis) ; Urticaria (Diagnosis). Acute Rheumatism Etiology ...... 537 Predisposing Causes. . . .537 Exciting Causes .... 538 Morbid Anatomy ..... 539 Symptoms and Course .... 541 Diagnosis ...... 545 Prognosis 546 Treatment ...... 547 Rheumatic Fever is a disease extremely diffi- cult to define, and yet, when it occurs in its usual types, has all the characters of a specific aff'ection. It is when the unusual forms of the disease are studied that we are led to recognise that it is one of a large group of diseases, each member of which possesses definite characters, but all of which bear a certain family resem- blance to one another. The malady is a very serious one, and in the crowded cities of England very common; but because it is not often directly fatal, the serious results that arise are liable to be imperfectly realised. Again and again we see, especially among the hard-working classes, the young, the attractive and intelligent, maimed by serious heart disease, and can trace from a first attack of rheumatic fever the commencement of a life of suffering brightened only by brief intervals of respite. Etiology.—The causes may be divided into the predisposing and exciting. Predisposing Causes.—Inheritance is of much importance, and double inheritance is more liable to result in a severe attack in the child than is heredity on one side only. It is probable that there is in rare instances direct infection of the foetus through the placental circvilation, and there is little doubt that some cases of congenital heart disease are due to this direct infection, though more usually there would appear to be not a direct infection, but an inherited vulnerability of the tissues. Rheumatic fever is more common in child- hood and adolescence than in adult life ; and not only this, the disease is more virulent and the manifestations more numerous in the young. One attack does not confer immunity, and there appears to be in many instances an increased liability to further attacks. On the other hand, with advance in age the resisting power of the constitution increases, and in considering im- munity we must remember that it is extremely difficult to feel sure when an attack of rheumatic fever is absolutely cured. The influence of sex is inconsiderable. The season of the year has a marked effect: in autumn and spring rheumatic fever is rife, and if the autumn commences with cold and wet.