RECTUM, DISEASES OF THE 484 (2) Fibrous polypi, which originate from the submucous connective tissue. These may be very hard and have pedicles always attached above the sphincters. In adults polypi are generally neither very hard nor very soft. They are sometimes cystic. Symptoms.—In children there is frequent desire to go to stool, tenesmus, occasional bleed- ing with discharge of mucus, and a fleshy mass protrudes when the bowels are acting. When situated high up polypi may be dangerous by causing intussusception. The peduncle is slender, and probably polypi are at times spontaneously cured by separating when a hard motion is passed. In adults there is often the history that without previous discomfort a substance is discovered to protrude when the patient is at stool. This is characteristic. Until the peduncle is long enough to allow the polypus to be protruded or grasped by the sphincters, there is little or no inconvenience, and the onset of the disease therefore appears quite sudden. This is different from the history of a case of hfemorrhoids. A certain diagnosis is made by passing the finger to its fullest extent, and sweeping round the rectal surface as it is with- drawn. The disease may be mistaken for in- ternal piles, procidentia, or dysentery. An examination after an injection will decide against the first two, and the patient's general condition and nature of his motions against the last. The only treatment to be recommended is re- moval of the growth. The peduncle is to be seized close to its base with torsion forceps, and gently twisted till the polypus comes away. There is no haemorrhage or pain, and no neces- sity for resting more than one day. If the polypus be large it should be drawn down, and a threaded needle passed through a small piece of the mucous membrane at the base of the pedicle. A knot is tied, and the pedicle then surrounded with the ligature tightly tied. The polypus is then cvit off^ not too near the ligature. In such a case the patient is to be kept at rest until the ligature separates, and the bowels con- fined for three days. Disseminated polypi con- stitute a rare disease peculiar to certain families, several members of the same family being affected. The symptoms resemble those of the soft polypus in children. The treatment is of uncertain result. Attempts to relieve by means of astringent injections are futile, and the most eflicient treatment is to dilate the sphincters, under an ansesthetic, and with the finger and a Volkmann's spoon to scrape away the polypi as high as can be reached. Tenesmus and rectal discomforts are relieved in this way, but of course the polypi situated in the upper part of the sigmoid flexure and colon are unaffected, so loose motions of mucous and blood continue. The scraping may have to be repeated. There is sharp bleeding, which must be arrested by hot injections. Complications sometimes arising from polypus are abscess, ulcer, fissure, and fistula. If with history of polypus none can be felt, the patient must be examined just after an administration of an enema. Polypoid yyowths are small growths not absolutely pedunculated protruding from the rectal mucous membrane. They rarely come outside the anus. There are two kinds, both to be distinguished from warts, which chiefly affect the outside of the anus. One kind are little tags of mucous membrane, never more than one inch long, generally situated on a small pile, or at the upper part of a fissure. The other kind are hard and nipple-like, with broad base and firm-pointed apex. They are composed of dense fibrous tissue. Discharge of mucus, or a moist watery condition of the anus, is the symptom for which such growths usually lead patients to consultation. Examination with finger and speculum reveals these growths, which are to be removed with the scissors. Warts around the anus are as warts elsewhere. They are best removed by applying fuming nitric acid to each individually, and scraping them off, applying acid again to their bases. Pruritus Ani or Painful Itching.—This is a distressing and intractable affection, but is always curable if the patient will patiently and persistently follow out treatment. The general causes are too free living, hereditary predisposi- tion, and various disorders, of which gout is the most frequent. Particular articles of diet affect some persons—lobster, for instance, invariably causing pruritus in certain subjects. Spirits, coffee, and excessive smoking often excite the complaint. Occasionally it must be considered as a pure neurosis. Local causes are constipa- tion, piles, polypi, fistula, and vaginal discharges. The itching is usually worse at night, but in excitable persons often comes on after exercise, or on entering a warm room. Usually the affected part shows a distinct rash, or is dry, rugose, or bright red. Some- times there are a number of minute scales forming irregular rings upon it. The most characteristic appearance is loss of the natural pigment of the part. General treatment must be appropriate to the cause, and is of the highest importance. Locally, irritation is best relieved by strong alkaline solutions frequently applied. Light diet, exercise, and mineral waters play a prominent part in the treatment of most cases, and nervous people require seda- tives, sometimes in large doses, at bedtime. Opium is to be avoided. Ointments, lotions, and powders may have to be tried, and before their application the part is to be washed with Castile soap, or oatmeal and water. In obstinate, old-standing cases the parts should be rubbed with solution of nitrate of silver, 40 grains to the ounce of water. When the irritation is so i