PEOSTATE GLAND 321 gently passed while the patient is in the erect posture. The quantity of water (residual urine) which comes away is a tolerably safe guide in estimating the stage of the disease and the secondary complications to which it has given rise. The patient should be ordered 2 grains of quinine, a hot hip bath, and be instructed to remain in bed till he is seen by the surgeon on the following morning. How often the catheter will require to be used depends upon the amount of the residual urine, but, as a rule, it is well to completely empty the bladder every evening at bedtime. On the other hand, suppose the patient has not sought surgical advice until the disease is far advanced and complete retention has occurred, the method of procedure is somewhat different, and the risks involved are much greater. The greatest care must be taken against septic infection, as all the conditions favourable to rapid invasion are present in the urinary tract. The distended bladder must be emptied very slowly. This can be carried out by a syphon arrangement, by which only 2 or 3 ounces of urine are per- mitted to escape per hour. The bladder should in this way be completely emptied in twenty- four hours, when the catheter may be with- drawn, unless great difficulty was experienced in introducing it from irregularities of the urethra or from false passages. These circum- stances, therefore, alone justify tying in a catheter. The practice, although often con- venient for the surgeon, greatly increases the danger of sepsis. In cases where the retention is sudden or attended by acute symptoms, supra- pubic drainage must be resorted to. Suprapubic aspiration may be useful occasionally in order to render temporary relief. The medical treatment consists in the ad- ministration of mild laxatives, careful regulation of diet, and the administration of boracic acid or urotropin may be resorted to if there is a tendency to the urine becoming alkaline or if septic infection has occurred. In the latter instance it may also be necessary to wash out the bladder regularly with a mild antiseptic solu- tion, and after the bladder has been cleansed, a drachm of a solution of nitrate of silver (2 per cent) may be introduced and allowed to remain. The patient should be instructed to avoid horse- riding, excess of food or alcohol, sexual excite- ment, sudden changes in temperature, or undue fatigue. Radical treatment may be carried out in three different ways— (1) Castration; (2) Vasectomy; and (3) Prostatectomy. The relationship of the growth of the prostate to the condition of the testicles has been referred to already, and the analogy between uterine fibromyoma and prostatic enlargement has also been pointed out. Keeping these points in VOL. VIII view and noting the effect that the operation of oophorectomy has in reducing the size of the uterine fibroid. Professor White, of Philadelphia, was the first to suggest castration with the view to produce atrophy of the enlarged prostate^ and thereby restore to natural micturition. Although this method of treatment has been successful in a few instances, it has not proved itself to be uniformly so, and in a certain pro- portion of cases serious mental derangement has followed complete castration, in some in- stances amounting to helpless imbecility. In order to avoid the possibility of such a calamity the operation of vasectomy has been proposed and carried out by Guy on and Harrison. The operation is devoid of risk, and the results are said to be satisfactory. Ligature of the arteries supplying the testicles not only causes atrophy of these glands, but it also induces a decrease in the size of the en- larged prostate. For the operation of vasectomy general anaesthesia is not required, cocain is sufficient. The vas deferens is easily isolated by the finger as it enters the abdominal ring. At this point an incision is made and the vas exposed to view. Each cord should be divided and ligatured, and the whole operation should be performed with as little disturbance to the parts as possible, and with strictly aseptic pre- cautions. The patient is often very restless, liable to displace the dressings and contaminate them with dribbling urine, so it is well to care- fully adjust the edges of the wound with sutures, and seal with collodion in addition to dressings applied. The writer has found this mode of treatment very successful, especially in cases of rapid enlargement of the prostate. Excision of the prostate in whole or in part for the removal of prostatic obstruction and pre- servation of the expulsive power of the bladder has not proved very successful. Whether pros- tatectomy is or is not a justifiable operation has been gravely questioned by many surgeons, while only a few advocate its use. Certainly it should not be employed except in cases which have proved intractable to careful and prolonged catheter treatment, and considering the high mortality which attends the operation it should not be undertaken without the patient's know- ledge of the risks involved. The cases which are suitable for prostat- ectomy are those in which the enlargement is intravesical rather than rectal, and certainly the most favourable of all cases are those where a more or less pedunculated outgrowth has formed in the middle lobe. In such cases prostatectomy is an operation of value, but in sessile growths and in annular formations surrounding the neck of the bladder like a collar little good can be expected from an operation. How is the surgeon to know the exact condition present 1 A cysto- scopic examination is almost impossible; the alternative is suprapubic incision, but this can 21