PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—AFFECTIONS OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS 271 Different is the prospect where the tumour is situated in the lower uterine segment or cervix, and lying in the pelvis or immediately above the brim, dangerously narrowing the canal, or preventing the foetal head engaging the brim. Cases have been recorded where a tumour so situated has in labour been drawn up by uterine action or pushed up by the attendant, and the labour successfully terminated. So fortunate an occurrence as the first cannot be reckoned on, whilst the use of strong artificial force has proved injurious or futile as often as it has been successful. If the tumour is in the anterior wall, it may possibly be drawn or pushed up, as this accords with the natural mechanism of labour; but in the posterior wall no such natural movement takes place, elevation is then possible only when the tumour is peduncular, and such a condition might be inferred when it is known from a recent vaginal examination that previously no tumour occupied that situation. The presence of uterine fibroids is recognised as a cause of repeated lujemorrha(/es during gesta- tion, and also of abortion. When the uterine cavity is distorted by the mass, or the cervix involved, much difficulty may be experienced in completely emptying the uterus. When curetting has been necessary, or there is fear that small portions of membrane have been retained, thorough washing out the uterus should be repeated daily till all risk is past. Uterine myomata increase in size with the growth of the uterus, and when all goes well they share in the process of involution. But during this growth serious effects may ensue, causing much suffering, and even endangering life. Some are purely mechanical; others are due to pathological changes. Pressure Symptoms. — Exhausting pain, ob- struction of bowel or bladder, or local oedema, may set in. The relation of a myoma to the lower segment or to the pelvis may change, so that, whilst at an early period of pregnancy no obstruction was indicated because of the high position, yet before full term is reached it may have descended so as dangerously to narrow the canal. Pathological changes in the myomata not infrequently occur. The rapidity of the growth may he out of all proportion to that of the uterus. The tumour takes on an independent action, leading to pathological changes in its structure —softening or cystic—and to morbid action in contiguous tissues, especially peritonitis with adhesions. The tumour may continue to grow after delivery, or degenerative or septic changes ensue, with conseqiient blood-poisoning, or extreme emaciation as in malignant affections. S^ohserous pedunculated myomata are especially liable to degenerative changes, and to contract adhesions to neighbouring organs—probably from twisting of the pedicle or other interference with nutrition whilst under the stimulus of pregnancy. They are apt to slip down into the pelvis behind the uterus, or to one side, and form a formidable complication in labour. Their treatment will be discussed later. Obstruction to the passage of the child, then, is not the only point in the determination of the question of interference. The liability of pathological changes in the tumours add fresh complications. Undue rapidity of gi'owth, softening, or inequality of consistence, ai'e important elements that of themselves may warrant operation; still moi'e if the woman is exhausted by pain or sickness, febrile attacks, or emaciation. Treatment.—The improvements in surgical technique, the increased knowledge gained by abdominal sections, and the greater attention paid to the subject in recent years, have con- siderably modified the opinions and management in vogue in previous times. In this paper the endeavour has been to give the basis upon which the question of interference is based; the time and mode of operation must vary from time to time as experience increases. Various points as to treatment have been referred to above; the following are in accordance with the results of the operations recorded during the last twenty years. Details of the operations cannot be discussed. As indicated above, there are cases that may be allowed to advance to full term. In these unexpected difficulties may ai'ise in the course of labour. It should be borne in mind that a protracted labour, complicated by mj^oma ended with difficulty by version, forceps, or em- bryulcia, is as dangerous, if not more so, than Caesarean section, or Porro-Csesarean operation performed under favourable circumstances— that is, before the patient's strength has been exhausted, or futile or protracted attempts at delivery have been made. " On reviewing Lefour's cases, we find that of 66 which terminated unassisted, 32 ended fatally, or a mortality of 48*4 per cent. Of 35 cases of versions, 21 died, or 60 per cent; while the percentage mortality attached to forceps and embryotomy is 25-9 and 55"5 respectively." Dr. John Philips, B. M. Journal, June 21, 1888. Induction of abortion or of premature labour naturally suggests itself as the least formidable operation. Experience has shown that it is not so, especially where the cavity is distorted. The placenta is liable to be retained, and in some cases it has been impossible to reach it by the hand. The tumour may also make the use of ovum forceps or the curette extremely difficult. The risk of septictemia is great. It is not an operation to be adopted without careful consideration. Moreover, a subsequent operation will in all likelihood be necessary. Removal of the Tumours during Pregnancy.— The advance of sui'gery has now provided the