311 PRESCEIBING, AND METHODS OF ADMINISTERING DRUGS (4) Injection into the Subcutaneous Tissue {Hypodermatoclysis).—Here also, saline solution is the agent chiefly employed. The fluid may be introduced at almost any part of the body, but sites where the skin is loose and cellular tissue abundant—e.g. the mammary region—are to be preferred. A fairly large needle, or a number of needles, should be employed, and the fluid, amounting to one or two pints, allowed to flow in by gravity. The vessel containing it may be attached to the patient's bed about eighteen inches or two feet above the point of injection. Care should be taken to maintain the fluid at a temperatixi'e of about 100°. In selecting a site for the injection, one which will interfere with any surgical procedure which may afterwards be necessary should of course be avoided. Injections of saline solution into the retro- rectal connective tissue have been advised for in- continence of urine. The needle, guided by a finger in the rectum, enters near the tip of the coccyx and is carefully passed up behind the bowel. About a hundred cubic centimetres of fluid may be injected in this way. The injection of paraffin into the subcutaneous tissue for cosmetic and other purposes does not fall within the scope of this article. (5) Intraspinal Injections.—Of late years these have been somewhat extensively used, particularly for the induction of cocaine or stovaine anaesthesia below the level of introduc- tion. The strictest antiseptic precautions are naturally essential. A syringe with a needle four or five inches long, which can be boiled, should be used. The patient is placed with the thighs flexed on the abdomen, and the point of the needle is introduced between the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae (just above a line join- ing the highest points of the iliac crests) about half an inch to one side of the middle line. The needle is thrust steadily in, in a slightly oblique direction upwards and inwards, its point being withdrawn if it catches against the arch of a vertebra. When the needle reaches the spinal canal a few drops of cerebro-spinal fluid flow out; the escape of blood shows that a vein has been punctured. When the needle is in the canal the syringe is attached, and the fluid slowly injected. Some advise that before the solution is introduced an equivalent quantity of cerebro-spinal fluid should be allowed to drain away. When cocaine is the drug selected the patient's head and shoulders should be raised after the injection, so as to prevent the fluid from passing up the spinal canal. In using intra-spinal injections of coUargol for cerebro- spinal fever I have found traces of the drug at the base of the brain two days after the drug was injected. Evidently, therefore, substances introduced by lumbar punctui'e may affect the cranial as well as the spinal contents. (6) Epidural Injections have recently been highly recommended as a means of treating enuresis nocturna. Saline solution is the drug employed. The needle is introduced at an angle of 60° to the skin, just above the middle of the line joining the cornua coccygea of the sacrum. When the resistance of the anterior wall of the sacral canal is felt the needle is inclined parallel with the skin and passed up the sacral canal. From 10 to 40 c.c. of saline solution may be injected. The dura should not be punctured. Intra-cerebral injections have been used in the treatment of tetanus by the antitoxin, with the object of introducing the serum into the imme- diate neighbourhood of the poisoned nerve centres. (7) Intra-Pulmonary Injections.—The direct introduction of antiseptics into the diseased lung by means of an ordinary exploring needle has been tried, but is neither free from danger nor attended by decided benefit. Extra-Pharmacopoeial and other New Drugs In addition to the drugs which find a place in the Pharmacopoeia, new remedies are constantly being introduced. For information concerning these, two standard authorities, Martindale and Westcott's Extra-Pharmacopoeia and the British Pharmaceutical Codex, should be referred to. Besides giving a great deal of pharmaceutical information, both volumes con- tain a number of useful formiilae, many of which are modelled on those of remedies which have gained popularity under various com- mercial names. As well as giving these formulae, the compilers of the Codex have intro- duced brief descriptive names for a variety of substances of definite composition which are already known under special names. Many of these special names are trade protected and can only be legally applied to the products of firms or individuals in whom proprietary rights in these names are vested. Everyone, of course, may produce the drugs under the Codex name, but when the proprietary name is used only the product of the firm which has a legal right to the name can be dispensed. The advantages of prescribing under the Codex names are: (1) the encouragement of " free trade " in the manufacture of drugs ; (2) in many cases, the concealment from a patient of the nature of the remedy; and (3) economy. To give an instance : a certain fashionable drug sells wholesale iinder its original (trade) name at Is. 4d. per ounce; the same drug can be supplied, if ordered under its Codex name, at a quarter of the sum. On the other hand, by ordering a drug under its trade name we have such guarantee of its quality as the reputation of its maker affords. The following list, which is not exhaustive, giving the synonyms of some of the chief com-