PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—AFFECTIONS OF OVUM AND DECIDUA 245 chorionic epithelium. Having regard to the opinion of the majority of observers at the present time, the condition is described under the heading " Affections of the Chorioii" {infra). See also " Puerperium—Pathology." Affections of the Chorion Vesicular or Hydatidiform Degeneration {Hy- datid Mole).—In this condition there is a rapid increase of the connective tissue cells in the stroma or core of each chorionic villus affected. This occurs not continuously, but at intervals, so that a series of swellings is formed along the stem and branches of the villus. The con- nective tissue forming these swellings then undei'goes myxomatous degeneration, the central cells are separated by clear fluid, and later dis- appear, each swelling thus becoming a small cyst whose wall consists of a thin layer of con- nective tissue covered by the chorionic epi- thelium. Concurrently with the cyst-forming degeneration of the mesoblastic cores of the villi, there is also great activity on the part of their epithelial covering, large masses of pro- liferating syncytium being seen in all sections of hydatid moles. This overgrowth of foetal epithelium, with its phagocytic action on the maternal tissues, accounts for the lumsual depth to which the diseased villi penetrate the uterine wall, and the unusual firmness with which the degenerated chorion is attached. The decidua is usually thickened, some of the cysts being completely embedded within it, while othei's may invade and even completely perforate the muscular wall of the uterus. The character- istic "hydatid" appearance of the degenerated chorion when expelled follows fronfl the trans- formation of each villus into a branching string of cysts, vaiying in size from that of a pin's head to that of a gooseberry. The change is generally so early in date as to affect the whole chorion, causing the death and complete absorption of the embryo, and the transformation of the whole ovum into a mass of cysts. In rarer cases the degeneration begins later and does not affect the whole chorion. In these instances the remains of the foetus may be found. In a few cases in which a living child has been born at term, vesicular degener- ation has been observed in portions of the placenta. The frequency of hydatid mole is estimated by Norris and Dickinson at 1 in 20,000 pregnancies. There were 10 cases in 24,500 pregnancies observed at St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Other authors place its occurrence at 1 in 2000 cases. The condition may com- plicate pregnancy at any age, and cannot be proved to be more frequent in advanced life. It has been said to be rare in primiparte, and that it tends to follow a series of rapidly re- curring pregnancies, but these statements are not supported by facts. It sometimes occurs twice or even three times in the same patient. For this reason, amongst others, the disease is held by some to be of maternal origin, and this view is probably correct, especially as a living child has occasionally been born with part of its placenta in a state of vesicular degeneration. An abnormal condition of the decidua probably permits of overgrowth and subsequent degener- ation of the chorion, which in turn kills the foetus, unless the change begins late and affects only a limited portion of the decidua. It is worthy of note that about half the recorded cases of chorioma malignum have occurred after hydatid degeneration of the chorion, a fact which suggests that the two conditions have a common cause. According to the author's observations, the decidual cells normally exercise a phagocytic action upon the foetal epithelium, checking undue invasion of the uterine wall by the chorionic villi. If this view is correct, any disease of the decidua which prevented the development of the decidual cells or interfered with their phagocytic action would admit of abnormal growth and activity on the part of the chorionic villi, and would thus afford a primary factor in the causation of both vesi- cular degeneration of the chorion and of the so-called chorioma malignum, if we suppose that this new growth is indeed composed of foetal elements. In the early weeks of pregnancy nothing abnormal is observed. Morning sickness is fre- quent, the breasts enlarge and are tender. The cervix softens at the usual time, and purple discoloration of the vagina is observed in most cases. Amenorrhoea is complete, as a rule, for some months; but irregular discharges of blood may occur for some time before the hydatid mole is expelled. The foetal heart may be heard in cases in which the onset of the de- generative process is late, and uterine souffle is occasionally observed ; but both these signs are absent as a rule. Uterine enlargement is ab- normal, in most cases- being much more rapid than in normal pregnancy, while the organ has a softer and more "boggy" consistency than usual. In certain cases, however, the ovum is cut off from the uterine wall by extravasated blood, but is retained in the uterus. Shrinking then occurs, and the uterus remains smaller than it would be at a corresponding period of normal pregnancy, just as in the case when a fleshy mole is retained. In such cases the uterus is firmer to the feel than usual. The rhythmical contractions which characterise the gravid uterus are almost always absent. The attention of the patient is generally attracted by irregular heemorrhages and the escape of watery blood-stained discharge, which sometimes contains vesicles detached from the chorion, and has then been desci-ibed as resembling red currant juice with white currants floating in it. The mass is generally expelled before full time