PRURIGO AND PRURITUS 332 skin becomes affected, measures are required to restore it to a healthier state. The hot bran bath followed by inunction can do much towards this. Harsh dry skins should always be anointed with oil or salves morning and evening. The addition of tar to the ointment has a sedative effect. Kaposi recommends beta naphthol, and more recently epicarin, one of the naphthalin compounds. If thei-e is much infiltration and thickening of the skin Hebra's soap treatment should be tried. This consists in washing the skin with a flannel and the spirit solution of soft soap, afterwards applying some soothing ointment. If the pruritus is confined to a limb, the occlusion method recommended by Jacquet and Tennesou may be tried. Jacquet's plan is to fold cotton-wool round the limb, and apply over it a bandage in such a way as to exclude air and traumatism. The results are described as astonishing ; all the lesions disappear, and in some cases, but not all, the pruritus also. Tenneson advises the use of guttapercha tissue or indiarubber dressings. Colombini speaks favourably of menthol dissolved in spirit. Cocain (20 per cent) applied locally in the form of ointment or lotion gives temporary relief, but does nothing towards a cure. Hatschek reports favourably of massage. Pilocarpine injections are recommended by R. M. Simon. Good results are said to have been obtained by the continuous electric current when the pruritus is confined to a limited area. But, after all, none of these measures touches the root of the disease. The only rational treatment is that which is based on a study of the in- dividual himself. Treatment of local p7-uritus. — Only two varieties need be discussed under this heading, namely, P. vulvae and P. ani. P. vulval.—All local sources of irritation must be searched for and removed as far as possible, such as vaginal discharges, fissures, saccharine urine, ascarides, hsemorrhoids, and morbid conditions of the uterus. Care must be taken not to overlook the presence of para- sites. If eczema be present, this must be cured {v. art. " Eczema ''). If the labise are thickened, carbolic or tar ointment may be applied. In some cases the cautious application to small areas of 95 per cent carbolic acid gives relief, or even removes the pruritus. In obstinate cases, burning the parts thoroughly with the thermo-cautery is effective, and may result in a complete cure. For this operation general ansesthesia is necessary, and the patient will require to remain in bed for three or four weeks. P. ani.—Tlie treatment of this is similar to that of P. vulvae. We must remember that it more often depends on defective circulation, and that gouty remedies may be necessary. The patient's diet may require regulating. The abuse of coffee should be stopped. As regards local treatment, Ohmann-Dumesnil recommends the application of pure creasote. Phenol may be used as for P. vulvte, but neither this nor the creasote should be applied on consecutive days. If the anus be kept firm and dry it will add much to the comfort of the patient. This may be attained by sponging the parts with a 0'5 per cent solution of silver nitrate or acetate of lead in spirit, water, or nitrous ether, and after this dusting into the anal passage a drying antiseptic powder. Pruritus. See Prurigo. Prussak'S Space. See Ear, Acute Inflammation of Middle Ear {Introductory, Tympanuvi). Prussian Blue and Prussiates. See Potash and Potassium. PruSSiC Acid. See Hydrocyanic Acid; Toxicology {Cyanogen Compounds). P.S.A. — These letters, in Public Health, stand for Port Sanitary Authority, which has to do with the hygiene of ships as to over- crowding, infectious diseases, etc. Psaiterium.—A thin lamina of fibres in connection with the fornix and corpus cal- losum of the brain ; the lyra; also the omasum or manyplies (q.v.). Psammoma. See Brain, Tumours op {^Morbid Anatomy).—It is a tumour (fibro-sar- comatous) found in connection with the brain, and containing calcareous concretions. Pseliismus.—Defective articulation (Gr. i/^eAAds, unable to pronounce certain syllables). Pseud- and Pseudo-.—in compound words pseud- and pseudo- (Gr. xl/evhrj'i, lying or false) mean false or spurious ; e.g. pseudarthrosis (false joint), pseudacusis (disturbed sense of hearing, in which the individual hears voices falsely as to timbre and pitch), and pseudacon- itine (false aconitine). PseudsesthesiS.—The imaginary feel- ing of the presence of organs or parts which have been removed, e.g. the sensation of moving the toes after amputation of the leg. PseudechiS. — See Snake-Bites (Colu- brine Snakes, Elapidoe). Pseudoansemia.—Apparent anaemia, as in Bright's disease, arteriosclerosis, lead- poisoning, nausea, etc. Pseudo-angina.—False, spurious, or hysterical angina pectoris. See Angina Pectoris (Varieties). PseudoapopIexy.—Peculiar seizures,