256 PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—INTRA-UTERINE DISEASES, DEATH OF FCETUS- ascribed to the comparative absence of friction in utero. The peculiarities of the changes which follow foetal death must certainly be largely due to the environment of asepsis with which the unborn infant is in normal circum- stances surrounded. The placenta, which plays so important a part in the physiology of the foetus, has an equally important effect upon its pathological developments. Thus, the presence of the placenta makes it possible for the foetus to be diseased in structure to a very advanced degree without the suspension of its vitality. An enormous amount of morbid change may be present without the cutting short of intra-uterine life. So long, for instance, as the foetal malady attacks organs whose functions are performed in whole or even in part by the placenta, the induced morbidity is only potential. The lungs may be solid from pneumonia and yet no inconvenience be caused to the fa^tus qud the state of its lungs so long as the placental economy is maintained. This potential morbidity becomes real at birth. The potential mortality of the foetus is another eflfect of the placental predominance. An amount of structural change quite incompatible with extra-uterine existence may be present in utero without causing foetal death. A foetus with general dropsy may come to the full term with its peritoneal, pleural, and pericardial cavities loaded with fluid, and with advanced changes in its internal organs; it may even show signs of life at birth; yet it invariably dies in a few minutes or at most hours there- after. The potential mortality became real at birth. It is in virtue of this effect of the placenta that grossly malformed embryos are carried through the foetal period of intra-uterine life and brought to the light; perhaps the mother is thus saved from the dangers of intra- uterine death or premature delivery. Again, the placenta acts sometimes, at least, as a barrier preventing the access of poisons and toxines circulating in the maternal system to the foetal economy. It has been shown that in the lower animals, at any rate, the placenta has a real affinity for some toxic bodies, and by storing them up in its substance prevents them passing to the foetus. In this respect it resembles the action of the liver in the adult, being an accumulator of poisons. Of course it does not necessarily prevent their passage, although it may store them up. With regard to the effect of the placenta in keeping back microbes from the foetus there is still much imcei'tainty. The idea that it acts always as a filter must be abandoned; that it acts often as a prophylactic barrier is also open to grave doubt. Bacteriological researches have shown that through it can pass the bacilli of anthrax, of fowl cholera, and of typhoid fever, the pneumoccus, the streptococcus, the spirillum Obermeyeri, the bacillus of glanders, the pathogenic organism of hydrophobia, and per- haps the haematozoon of malaria. So we have now to look at the opposite side of the question, viz. the placenta as a means of access of germs and toxines to the foetus. It is certainly the chief if not the only avenue of entrance to the foetal economy; for it cannot be accepted that substances often pass by the membranes into the liquor amnii, and are then swallowed and so reach the interior of the unborn infant. It would seem also that it is not necessary for the placenta to be macroscopically diseased, as by hsemorrhage into its substance, in order that the organisms may pass ; in fact, in some cases in which the germs have passed, the placental tissue does not appear to have been even microscopically afit'ected. It cannot be said that the conditions which increase or diminish placental permeability are yet well known; but one or two important conclusions have been arrived at. It is, for instance, apparent from the study of the comparative anatomy of the placenta that its permeability must vary in different species with the thickness of tissue intervening between the maternal and foetal circulations ; in this respect it would appear, from the extensive researches of Duval, that the human placenta occupies an intermediate position between that of the rodents and that of the ruminants. Again, there is reason to believe that placental permeability varies with the epoch of pregnancy reached. It would seem also, although the evidence rests on ex- periments on animals and not on observations on the human subject, that the presence in the blood of toxines, as tuberculine, or of alcohol, inci-eased the permeability of the placenta, while the previous inoculation of the system with an antiseptic, such as corrosive sublimate, made it more difficult for the germs to pass. The fact that it is through the placenta that infection reaches the foetus has an important bearing upon the position of primary lesions in the foetus. The germs and toxines arrive at the body in the blood, passing first through the placenta and umbilical vein, then either through the liver or ductus venosus, then through the heart, and so to the whole circu- lation. It is no matter for wonder, therefore, that the primary pathological changes are commonly found in the liver or heart, or placenta itself. Congenital tuberculosis is not often met with, but when it has been demon- strated it has been noted that the lesions were inconsiderable in the lungs and very extensive in the liver and spleen. Again, erysipelas in the mother has been found associated with streptococcic endocarditis in the foetus, and not with erysipelatous inflammation of the foetal skin. The placenta has been already referred to as the most important organ of the fatal economy; for this very reason morbid changes in it are very immediately prejudicial to the