PNEUMONIA—CLINICAL SECTION 169 quarter. The mortality from pneumonia was only one-fifth greater in the first than in the second quarter, and only twice as great in the first as in the third quarter. The extreme winter fatality of bronchitis and its low summer fatality were equally wanting in the case of pneumonia. A careful analysis of the weekly returns of the Registrars-General of England and Ireland for ten years ending with 1885, and of the same returns for the year 1886, brings out a similar remarkable contrast between bronchitis and pneumonia, as to the time of year when these diseases are respectively most prevalent and fatal in London and Dublin. In both cities bronchitis falls to a very low ebb in the third or summer quarter of the year (July to September inclusive), when only 12 per centum of the deaths annually caused by this disease take place in Dublin, and only 11 per centum in London. In the last or fourth quarter (October to December inclusive), the percentage of deaths from bronchitis rises to 27 in Dublin and to 30 in London. The maximal mortality occurs in the first quarter (January to March inclusive), when it is 38 per centum in both London and Dublin. In the second or spring quarter (April to June inclusive), the deaths from bronchitis declined to 23 per centum in Dublin and to 21 per centum in London. The mortality from "pneumonic fever" is very differently distributed throughout the year. In the summer quarter more than 14 per centum of the deaths yearly referable to this disease are recorded in Dublin, and more than 15 per centum in London. In the first quarter the figures are—Dublin, 31 per centum; London, 31 per centum ; in the second quarter they are —Dublin, 30 per centum; London, 26 per centum ; in the fourth quarter they are—Dublin, 24 per centum; London, 28 per centum. From these numerical results it therefore appears that the fatality and (indirectly) the prevalence of pneumonic fever from season to season do not correspond with the seasonal prev- alence and fatality of bronchitis. The latter disease—be it of primary or secondary origin— increases and kills in direct relation to the setting in of cold weather, with excessive relative humidity and increased and frequent precipita- tion in the form of rain, snow or sleet, and hail. It subsides in prevalence and fatality with the advance of spring and the advent of summer. Pneumonic fever, on the other hand, increases less quickly in winter, and remains more prev- alent and fatal in spring and summer than bronchitis ; its maximal incidence coincides with the season of dry, harsh winds and hot sunshine in spring, when also the relative humidity is low, precipitation is scanty, while the diurnal range of temperature is extreme. 5. Intemperance is generally credited with in- creasing the predisposition to pneumonia. It certainly increases the risk to life caused by this disease. Dr. Hector Mackenzie, however, states that it has not been clearly proved that alcoholism makes an individual more susceptible to pneumonia. There was a clear history of alcoholism in about 8 per cent of 1392 cases treated at St. Thomas's Hospital, and in 9*8 per cent of the cases reported on by the Collective Investigation Committee of the British Medical Association. 6. Occupation.—In a letter to the Registrar- General of Births, Deaths, and Marriages in England, on the mortality of males engaged in certain occupations in the three years 1890-92, Dr. John Tatham, M.A., states that out of every 1000 deaths among males aged between 25 and 65 years, 107 were referred to "pneumonia." The "comparative mortality figure" for this disease varied from 257 for innkeepers in the industrial districts, 251 for general labourers in the same districts, 249 for coal-heavers, 248 for those employed in nail, anchor, chain, and other iron and steel manufactures, and 246 for hotel servants in London, to 45 for clergymen, 55 for lawyers, 93 for physicians, surgeons, and general practitioners, but only 32 for artisans, 36 for farmers, and 43 for schoolmasters. In the higher figures Dr. Arthur Newsholme thinks that the eff"ects of dust and of alcoholism are probably combined. Incubation Definite references to the duration of the in- cubation period in pneumonic fever will be found at page 41 of a pamphlet on Epidemic Pneio- monia at Scatter, by T. B. Franklin Eminson, published by H. Kimpton (London) in 1892; and in Dr. Parsons' report on the outbreak in question, published in the supplement to the Twentieth Annual Report of the Local Govern- ment Board, 1890-91 (pages 95 et seq. of the supplement). Mr. Eminson says: "It is the general opinion that the incubation period is very short —a few hours to a few days—and this agrees with the experience of other epidemics ; indeed, it has been said that there is frequently no in- cubation period properly so called, the patient falling ill verysoon afterexposure." Mr. Eminson narrates two cases in which the interval between exposure to the cavise of the disease and its onset was 60 and 24 to 48 hours respectively. These periods, however, were only highly probable, by no means positively certain. Dr. Parsons says in his report: " The length of the period of incubation is doubtful, but it appears to be short, from a few hours to two days (assuming the disease to have been contracted at the time and in the manner locally supposed)." Dr. C. J. Russell M'Lean, in a paper on Epidemic Pneu- monia at Yeadon, Yorkshire, in 1894, mentions three cases of pneumonia, in which a wife took