360 PUERPERIUM, PHYSIOLOGY OF costal margin. The binder is supposed to fulfil three objects : iirst, to give the patient a sense of comfort; second, to counteract the diminished intra-abdominal pressure ; third, to restore the patient's "figure." From measure- ments carried out on three series of patients, the first with the binder applied in the ordinary way, the second without binder, and the third with a binder applied and kept specially firm, Herman came to the conclusion that, considered as a means of keeping the waist small, a binder of the ordinary kind has not the slightest effect. Nor has a binder any effect in causing or main- taining uterine contraction. In the discussion on Herman's paper at the London Obstetrical Society, Champneys expressed the view that the absence of a binder favoured the production of the condition of pendulous belly, and that the use of a binder was to keep the abdominal walls in a favourable condition and position during the involution which they, in common with other structures hypertrophied during pregnancy, should undergo during the lying-in period. When the patient has been made comfortable, the bed should be made, a draw-sheet being- placed under her. The room should be darkened and left with a window open, and the patient should be encouraged to sleep. The accoucheur should not leave the house till the pulse has become lower than 100, this being a sign that there is no special tendency to hfemorrhage. After a few hours the baby, which has mean- while been washed and dressed, may be put to the breast for a few minutes. The nurse should be instructed to keep a careful watch for any symptoms of htemorrhage, by looking at tiie pads and by feeling the abdomen from time to time, to ascertain that the uterus is contracted or retracted. At the first subsequent visit the obstetrician should, as a matter of routine, inquire about after-pains and the emptying of the bladder ; the pulse and temperature should be noted, as well as the patient's general condi- tion ; he should see the pads and make special inquiries as to the passing of clots ; and lastly, he should examine the abdomen, to ascertain the condition of the uterus and of the bladder. The latter will sometimes be found distended, even when the patient is alleged to have passed water. After-pains are due to painful uterine con- tractions, and are usually most pronounced when the uterus has not become exhausted by a difficult or tedious labour; they are, therefore, more common in multiparfe than in primiparte. They also become more severe when clots re- quire to be expelled ; and they may be induced reflexly by the application of the child to the breast, or directly by the application of the hand to the abdomen. When they occur in moderation they are rather a welcome sign than otherwise. But if they become excessive they are bad, both because they are disturbing to the patient, and also because they may then be due to some irritation of the uterus, or to a pathological condition within its cavity. When, therefore, after-pains are moderate, they require no treatment; but when they are severe they must be relieved, and they may also constitute an indication for intra-uterine interference. The latter is specially indicated if the uterus is found to be bulky, or lying too high in the abdomen. For the relief of after-pains, in most cases, nothing is so effectual as phenacetin : it may be given in a dose of 10 to 15 grains, re- peated, if necessary, in one or two hours. In severer cases, chloral may be administered in doses of 20 to 30 grains. Opium and morphia should only be given as a last resource. During the whole of the puerperium, the pulse and temperature should be regularly recorded ; and it is a great advantage for the daily height of the fundus to be recorded at the same time, in the manner suggested by Stevens and Griffith. The chart will then constitute a record of progress which will be of special value, since any unfavourable indications can be de- tected at a glance. 2. Cleanliness is perhaps the most important individual factor in securing a favourable con- valescence. The patient's body-linen and bed- linen should be kept scrupulously clean, and changed as often as necessary. The external genitals should be washed several times a day for the first few days, and the vulvar pads should be renewed every time. In normal cases daily douching is not necessary; it is quite sufficient that the outside parts be washed and carefully dried. Any offensiveness in the discharges should, however, be the signal for a vaginal douche; for this purpose, biniodide of mercury (1 in 3000), iodine (1 drachm of the tincture or liniment to the pint), sanitas (1 part to 5 of water), or chinosol (1 in 3000) may be used. An intra-uterine douche should not be given except by the medical attendant. The patient should be sponged daily with tepid water, from head to foot, and carefully dried; only a small part of the patient's body should be exposed at a time. The breasts require special attention, so that they may be kept clean, and free from milk becoming sour. 3. Diet.—Formerly a low diet was considered the proper one for the lying-in woman. So long ago as 1864, Graily Hewitt uttered a protest against this practice, urging that the diet should be a generous one, both because the patient's strength required building up, and because she had to nourish the baby as well as herself. At the present time a rational treatment more largely prevails. For the first twenty-four hours the diet should consist of liquids, but it should be nourishing, and the " tea and toast" tenets should be relegated to the same limbo of defunct prescriptions as the "starve a fever" principle.