PRESCRIBING, AND METHODS OF ADMINISTERING DRUGS 306 of pharmacology is the only guide. In many cases, however, drugs which are in some respects physiologically antagonistic are prescribed to- gether with a definite object, as for example bismuth and rhubarb, when the latter is in- tended to prevent the constipating effect of the former, and digitalis and iodide of potash, in which the salt is believed to antagonise the action of the digitalis on the vessels. Chemical Incompatibility.—To avoid this a knowledge of elementary chemistry is required. The more common instances of chemical in- compatibility are given in Table III. In addition, the following points should be noted. (1) Any combination must be avoided which will yield the following insoluble salts:— Hydrates, phosphates, borates, carbonates, tannates, and arsenates of the earthy or heavy metals, or alkaloids; sulphides of the metals; sulphates of calcium and lead; mercurous salts; haloid salts of bismuth, silver, or lead. (2) Powerful oxidising agents ought not to be combined with substances which are readily reduced ; admixtures of such bodies in the dry state may cause an explosion. The following are the chief oxidising and oxidisable substances employed in pharmacy :—Oxidisers—Chlorine ; strong hydrochloric, nitric, and nitro-muriatic acids; chlorates, hypochlorites, permanganates, nitrates, bromine, iodine, bromates, iodates, oxide of silver, peroxides. Oxidisable—Phos- phates, hypophosphites, sulphur, sulphides, glycerine, sugar, alcohol, oil, ether, creosote, charcoal, tannin, arsenious acid, cyanides, fer- rous and mercurous salts. (3) Explosions from the evolution of car- bonic acid are liable to occur when carbonates are dispensed with acid salts or acids in tightly corked bottles. This is most likely to take place by inadvertently dispensing one of the salts mentioned under (5), or the syrup of squill, with an alkaline carbonate. (4) Weak acids or bases are decomposed by stronger ones, so that salts in solution exchange their radicles, especially if by doing so an in- soluble compound can be formed. (5) The following salts are acid in reaction :— Alum, bismuth subnitrate, ferric chloride, citrate of quinine and iron, ferrous sulphate, lead acetate and nitrate, quinine bisulphate, zinc sulphate. (6) Alkaloids are precipitated by alkalis. Iodides, particularly double iodides {e.g. potassio-mercuric iodide), bromides, tannic acid, benzoates, and salicylates are likely to produce insoluble salts of most alkaloids. The precipi- tate is soluble in alcohol. Caffeine is not pre- cipitated by iodides. Acetate of quinine is almost insoluble. Methods op Administering Drugs I. By the Mouth (1) Mixtures.—-In mixtures the drugs are dissolved or suspended in a suitable menstruum. usually water or alcohol. A general acquaint- ance with the solubility of the various drugs is presupposed ; for additional information a table of solubility must be consulted. It is usual to prescribe mixtures containing 12 or 16 doses of half an ounce or two drachms respectively; though convention favours the six-ounce mixture, it will, as a rule, be found more convenient to prescribe four ounces of the smaller dose. When the mixture contains insoluble sub- stances some excipient should be added to suspend them. The best of these are glycerine, syrup, and gum-tragacanth, which is preferable to acacia for suspending bismuth. One ounce of glycerine may be added to a six-ounce mixture; of tragacanth powder, 1 ^ to 2 grains to the ounce is enough. It is not generally known that the addition of a few grains of powdered chalk increases the amount of bismuth which can be suspended in a given bulk of fluid. It is thus possible to give 7|- grains of bismuth in a drachm—an advantage in prescribing for children. (2) Emulsions.—These are mechanical suspen- sions of oils or resins in a state of fine division, giving fluids of the appearance and consistency of cream. The excipients most commonly employed are mucilage, yolk of egg, almond mixture, and alkalis. The last, however, as they act by saponifying part of the fat, should as far as possible be avoided. Tincture of quillaiae is a suitable excipient for paraldehyde and many oils; for cod-liver oil, yolk of egg is the best, but as the making of a good emulsion is a matter requiring considerable skill, it may to a large extent be left to the pharmacist. Moreover, many of the drugs which are given in this form may equally well be dispensed in capsule. Acids, metallic salts, and large quantities of alcohol are inimical to the process of emulsification. (3) Pills.—Drugs which are nauseous, or insoluble, such as extracts or resins, may be ordered as pills, but this mode of exhibition is unsuitable for bulky substances and efflorescent or deliquescent salts. Thus administered, drugs act slowly, often only after passing out of the stomach. In prescribing pills it is perfectly legitimate to leave to the compounder the choice of the excipient—far better to do so than to order an unsuitable one. Nevertheless, the following hints may be of service to those who prefer to give the directions themselves. Confection of roses is adapted for dry, heavy powders, and generally when a somewhat pasty excipient is wished. Glycerine of tragacanth and syrup of glucose are very widely useful; so also are vegetable extracts. Liquorice powder, or liquorice and compound tragacanth powder, are suitable when moisture is required to be absorbed. Soap, or soap with magnesia, forms a good pill mass with many essential oils. Resinous extracts, gum-resins, etc., may be