8 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES seem to be formed by a process of budding from the mesoblast cells, which become vacuolated to form the primitive blood-vessels. Later they develop in the liver and spleen, but after birth they are formed in the red marrow of bone (Fig. 113). Marrow consists of a fine fibrous tissue with large blood capillaries or sinuses running in it. In the fibrous tissues are numerous/a< cells (clear spaces b in Fig. 113) and generally a considerable number of multi- nucleated giant cells or myelocytes {d). In addition to these are the young leucocytes, leucoblasts (a.g.h.), and lastly young nucleated red cells, the erytkrohlasts {c.f.). After haemor- rhage, the formation of these becomes unusually active, and may implicate parts of the marrow not generally concerned in the process, and hence the red marrow may spread from the ends of the long bones, where it is usually situated, towards the middle of the shaft. The nuclei of the erythroblasts atrophy or are shed, and the cells escape into the blood stream. The red marrow has the power of retaining the iron of disintegrated erythrocytes, which are often found enclosed in large modified leucocytes or phagocytes. The iron is often very abundant after a destruction of erythrocytes. VI. Total Amou7it of Blood in the Body This was formerly determined by bleeding an animal, measuring the amount of blood shed, and determining the amount of haemoglobin contained in it; then washing out the blood- vessels, and after measuring the amount of fluid used, determining the amount of hsemoglobin in it to ascertain the amount of blood it re- presented. By this method the amount of blood was found to be about of the body weight. Haldane and Lorrain Smith have devised a method which can be applied to the living- animal. It depends upon the fact that, after an animal or person has inhaled carbon monoxide, it is possible to determine to what proportion the gas has replaced oxygen in the oxyhsemo- globin. If then an individual breathes a given volume of carbon monoxide, and if a measured specimen of blood is found to contain a definite percentage of the gas, the rest of the gas must be equally distributed through the blood, and thus the amount of blood may be deduced. By this method they conclude that the blood is about o-\j- of the weight of the body in the human subject. VII. Distrihution of the Blood Roughly speaking, the blood is distributed somewhat as follows :— Heart, lungs, large vessels . . ^ Muscles . . . . . I Liver . . . . . . \ Other organs . . . . \ VIII. Fate of the Blood Constituents The water of the blood, constantly renewed from outside, is constantly got rid of by the kidneys, skin, lungs, and bowels. About the fate of the proteins we know nothing. They are probably used in the construction of the tissues, but experimental evidence of this is wanting. The glucose and fat are undoubtedly used up in the tissues. The urea and waste products are excreted by the kidneys. The fate of the salts is not fully worked out. The chlorides are partly excreted by the kidneys and are partly split up to form the hydrochloric acid required for stomach digestion. The phosphates and sulphates are excreted in the urine, but whether they are also used in the tissues is not known. The leucocytes break down in the body— but when and how we do not know. We shall afterwards find that they are greatly increased in number after a meal of proteins, and, since the increase is transitory, lasting only for a few hours, they are probably rapidly broken down, possibly to feed the tissues. It would thus seem that a leucocyte may live for only a short time in the blood. The erythrocytes also break down. How long they live is not known. It is found, after injecting blood, that the original number of corpuscles is not reached for about a fortnight, and hence it has been concluded that the corpuscles live for that period. The experi- ment, however, is far from conclusive, and must be accepted with reservation. Organs connected with Haemolysis. — The process of breaking down of old erythrocytes and eliminating their pigment is often called the process of haemolysis. Certain organs appear to be specially connected with it, but the precise part played by each of them is not very clearly understood. That the liver acts in this way is indicated, first, by the fact that the blood passing from the organ during digestion contains fewer erythrocytes than the blood going to it; second, by the formation in the liver cells of bile pigments, which are derivatives of hajmoglobin ; third, by the presence of pigment and of iron in simple combinations in the liver cells under certain conditions. It is possible that tlie reabsorbed salts of the bile acids in the portal blood dissolve the pigment out of the old erythrocytes, and that the liver cells may then act upon the liberated pigment. Under ordinary conditions the liver does not store much iron. The spleen is generally said to have a similar action. This organ is composed of a fibrous capsule containing non-strijjed muscle and a sponge-work of fibrous and muscular trabecuhc.