REFRACTION 496 Hypbrmetropia is generally the expression of imperfect development of the eyeball, which resembles those of the lower animals in being more flattened from before backwards. Thus results a discrepancy between the length of the eyeball and the focal length of its media, the former being less than the latter. When the accommodating power of the eye is able to shorten the focal length sufficiently to make it coincide with the eyeball length, the defect of focus is for the time overcome. Hypermetropia of this kind is called "Facultative," in contrast to " Absolute " hypermetropia, in which all such efforts fall short of their mark. Moreover, all young hypermetropes, and many middle-aged ones, have a certain fraction of their defect (which becomes smaller every year) constantly masked by an involuntary residuum of accommo- dative action which remains in force even when the voluntary relaxation of accommodation is tempted to the utmost by convex lenses. This perpetually neutralised fraction of the refractive error is called the "Latent H," while the re- mainder is called the " Manifest H," since it can be manifested by the toleration of convex lenses. The two together constitute the " Total H." To learn the " Latent H," we must first measure the " Manifest H," then paralyse the ciliary muscle by some cycloplegic like atropine, and measure the " Total H." The difference between the two gives the "Latent H." To detect H we may employ retinoscopy {q.v.), or subjective tests. For the latter it is customary to place the patient 5 or 6 metres from Snellen's distant test-types, and find, with each eye separately, what is the strongest convex lens compatible with the best vision obtainable. If, after thus testing each eye separately, the two lenses found be left in the trial frame, while, with both eyes open, weak pairs of sphericals are placed simul- taneously before the two eyes, it will often be found that more hypermetropia becomes mani- fest binocularly than monocularly, and this procedure should never be omitted in correcting any error of refraction. Before turning to the treatment of H, it is well to consider that nature treats it by hypertrophy of the ciliary muscle (analogous to compensatory hypertrophy of the heart). So long as compensation is sufficient and no discomfort exists, it is wise to let nature develop her own resources, and to refrain from what we might almost call meddlesome spectac- ling. It is chiefly in strong, healthy young people that such compensation exists. There is, however, a larger class in these hyper-educa- tional days whose neuro-muscular energy is insufficient, and in whom the lack of compensa- tory power makes itself felt by headaches, eye- strain, and various sensory discomforts, while at times the page becomes misty, as the tired muscles "give out." Even in such cases we should not always think of correcting the total hypermetropia. We should help nature rather than supplant her. In some cases, especially among young people, it suffices to correct the manifest hypermetropia alone; in a larger number half the latent element should also be corrected, while in a certain proportion, and I think in all adults, and most certainly in every case of convergent squint, it is advisable to correct the whole. We should also be guided often by the muscular balance of the eyeballs. If, while looking at a distant object, a con- dition of latent convergence can be demonstrated, a more complete correction of the total hyper- metropia is indicated. If, on the other hand, latent divergence be great, convex glasses would increase it by lessening the accommodative effort, and with it the associated convergence, and should therefore be prescribed as weak as possible. The balance is conveniently tested by placing a lighted candle, or other small source of light, at a distance of 5 metres from the patient, while a disc of horizontal glass rods ^ is held before one eye so as to make the flame appear drawn out into a long streak of light, while the naked eye, of course, sees the flame as it is. Homonymous diplopia, in which the streak appears on the same side as the rods producing it, indicates convergence, while crossed diplopia indicates divergence. The slight hypermetropia incidental to diabetes is attributed, with good reason, to an increased index of refraction of the vitreous body. In- creased index of the aqueous, on the other hand, tends to myopia. Nearly all young children are hypermetropic, and there is reason to believe that it gradually lessens with development of the eye. After about the age of fifty-three, however, another kind of H (H acquisita) begins to appear, and goes on increasing, as shown in the last column of the table given in the sec- tion on emmetropia. Priestley Smith ascribes it, with some reason, to the steady growth of the lens which he has so beautifully demon- strated, but it is also rational to expect that the eyeball should share the senile shrinking of the whole body, and thus its antero-posterior dia- meter becomes less (Bonders). Since in hypermetropes part of the accommo- dative power is spent in correcting the refractive defect, the range of accommodation is shortened in proportion, and the near point lies farther from the eye. A natural consequence of this is that presbyopia sets in earlier. Hypermetropic patients are apt to have the curious habit of finding relief by pressing the inner canthi with their forefingers. It only remains to add that ocular headaches, hypersemia of the lids, and sometimes even blepharitis, are kept up by hypermetropia. ^ The disc of rods is obtainable from Messrs. Curry and Paxton, 195 Gt. Portland Street, togetlier with scales for placing behind the flame in order to measure the deviation in degrees.