436 PUPIL, THE results, but when focussed on either seeing half consensual pupil reaction in both eyes is observed. Knies has also theorised that this hemiopic pupil reaction must be obtainable in cases of lesion of the reflex fibres after they have left the optic tracts on their way to the third nerve nuclei, without any corresponding hemianopic loss of vision. This symptom has not been actually recorded, but might conceivably be met with in lesions of either anterior corpus quadri- geminum or of its brachium. Any lesion damag- ing the visual path above the external geniculate body, whether in the optic radiations or in the cortex of the occipital lobe, will produce hemian- opia without interfering with the pupil reflex, and the pupils will react normally to light even though the lesion be bilateral, producing total blindness. The reflex arc for the sympathetic control over the dilating mechanism of the pupil is con- siderably more complex than that of the light reflex. The nuclear centre lies close to the third nucleus in the floor of the aqueduct, and ex- ternal to it. Afferent impressions reach this centre along numerous paths; indeed, strong sensory impressions from almost any part of the body may result in stimulation of this centre. A usual way of testing the integrity of this reflex is to pinch the skin of the neck sharply, when dilatation of the pupil results. Equally potent, however, is a pin-prick on the inside of the nose, when the fifth nerve must serve as the afferent loop of the reflex arc. Intestinal disorders, such as worms and painful colic, are also said to react on the pupil in the same way. Moreover, im- pulses passing downwards from the cortex are continually affecting this centre, as is seen in the continual alteration in size of the pupil under emotion, irrespective of alteration in the intensity of light. It is possible, as some think, that there is a special centre for regulation of the size of the pupil in the neighbourhood of the head and eye centre in the posterior portion of the frontal lobe. Haab has described an " attention reflex " in which contraction or dilatation of the pupil occurs according as the attention is concentrated on a bright or dark object respectively on either side, while the gaze is fixed on a medium-coloured wall in front. With this may be compared the dilatation of the pupil which occurs on concen- trating the thoughts on a long-past event, and contraction on thinking of the distant future— a common " thought - reading " experiment. Gifford and Galassi described pupillary contrac- tion on forced closure of the lids. Piltz finds this " orbicularis reflex " consensual, and present even in blind eyes and in cases with Argyll- Eobertson pupil. The efferent path of the sympathetic impulses to the pupil is more de- finitely known; starting from the centre in the floor of the aqueduct, the fibres traverse the pons and bulb with the ascending root of the fifth nerve, and pass down the spinal cord in the lateral columns of the same side as far as the second dorsal root. They leave the cord at this level by the anterior root, pass by the rami communicantes to the inferior cervical ganglion, thence along the cervical sympathetic to the superior-cervical ganglion, whence they pass along the internal carotid artery, and so enter the cranial cavity, and reach the Gasserian ganglion. Reaching in this manner the fifth nerve, they accompany the ophthalmic division of this nerve, its nasal branch, and thence reach the ciliary ganglion, reaching the iris eventually by the long ciliary nerves. Lesions of the pons, bulb, and especially of the lateral columns of the cervical cord, as well as of the inferior cervical ganglion and cervical sympathetic, such as thor- acic aneurysm, mediastinal tumour, or enlarged glands in the neck, will produce paralysis of the dilator pupillte and contracted pupil. Such contracted pupils do not dilate in shade, and the condition is therefore more obvious when both eyes are shaded from the light. They still contract slightly to light, both directly and consensually, but not quite so briskly as a normal piipil. Indeed, the reaction to light in this contracted pupil may be so sluggish as closely to resemble the Argyll-Robertson pupil. There is also present slight ptosis from paralysis of Mliller's muscle, and the eye will appear slightly sunken. Anterior poliomyelitis, pos- terior sclerosis, and sclerosis of the crossed pyramidal tracts in the cervical region, do not produce sympathetic paralysis of the pupil, but gross lesions of the cord, which aifect also the lateral column, as cervical myelitis, syringo- myelia, and fracture-dislocations of the cervical spine will be accompanied by this symptom. This condition of sympathetic ptosis and con- tracted pupil will often afford the first clue in the diagnosis of syringomyelia from progressive muscular atrophy. Irritant lesions of the spinal cord in the lower cervical region at first cause dilatation of the pupil, later contraction from paralysis of the sympathetic fibres. Schiff' de- scribed a paradoxical reaction, the pupil con- tracting instead of dilating on faradisation of the sympathetic; this I have seen in tabes. Dilatation of the pupil is said to occur in the early stages of aneui'ysm of the second part of the arch of the aorta. This I have never met with, the common condition being con- tracted pupil with slight ptosis from paralysis. Slight optic neuritis not infrequently accom- panies sympathetic ptosis resulting from recent lesions of the cervical cord. Since cocaine dilates the pupil by stimulation of the peripheral endings of the sympathetic in the iris, this fact has been taken advantage of in the differential diagnosis of complete and partial transverse lesions of the cervical cord. If the pupil will no longer dilate to cocaine, the inference is drawn that the sympathetic fibres are completely degenerated, and that therefore