PULSE, THE 415 paratively unworked field of research. In the study of this subject under various conditions it is absolutely necessary to make simultaneous records of both events. This can now be ac- FlG. 81.—The shortened diastolic period after the premature beat of the heart (a); that shown in the preceding beat is the usual type. The upper tracing is from tlie apex beat complished most satisfactorily by means of Mackenzie's "clinical polygraph." This small apparatus is attached to the ordinary Dudgeon's sphygmograph, and it records the respiratory curve on the same strip of smoked paper as that which registers the radial pulse. The Clinical Poly- graph.—The following short description of the instrument is taken from Dr. Mackenzie's paper on the " Venous Pulse." It consists of a tambour (A in the figure) supporting the writing lever, the latter being 6 inches in length. From the under-surface of the tam- bour a pipe protrudes, which is connected by writing lever can be adjusted to any desired place on the recording paper, as there are several movements available at D, E, and F. By this method any pulsatile movement or the respiration can be recorded at the same time, and on the same paper as the radial sphygniogram. Ordinates are made by allowing the levers to write on the paper before starting and after stopping. With a pair of compasses the relative time of the events can be accurately gauged. Use of the Clinical Polygraph in Children. —Tlie writer has been able to iise this little instrument without difiiculty, even in new- born infants, either to record the move- ments of respiration or of the left apex-beat along with the radial pulse. The tracings are admirable, and we now possess a ready and accurate means of studying the influence of the respiratory movements on the circulation. FlO. 82.- india-rubber tubing with a receiver. The re- ceiver is simply a small shallow vessel, made of lead or some other metal, and is used to receive the impressions from the pulsating artery or vein or from the apex-beat. Screwed tightly to the bottom of the tambour is a stem (B), 6^ inches in length, projecting outward, parallel to the under surface of the tambour. Half an inch of the other extremity of the stem is bent almost at right angles (C), and this portion fits into a slot in the upright stem that supports the movable lever of a Dudgeon's sphygmograph, and this supports the tambour. When the tambour arrangement is adjusted to the sphygmograph the tambour rests with its movable surface vertically, so that the writing lever moves horizontally. The point of the Fig. 83.—Respiratory irregularity where more than a single pulse-wave is affected (really a pulsus paradoxus). See p. 419. Graphic records of the different types of respir- atory movement as found in various states of dyspnoea are of much interest, and these are as yet imperfectly recognised. Clinically, we know that such types exist under conditions of laboured breathing, but the precise relations of the inspiratory to the expiratory phase are not always adequately ap- preciated. With regard also to the time of occurrence of the respiratory pause under various circumstances, much has still to be learnt. Effects of certain forced Respiratory Move- ments on the Pulse.—-In the dyspnoea of ad- vanced cardiac failure, with the circulation nearly at a standstill, the pulse seldom shows -A type of irregularity due to respiration in an infant pet. 3 weeks—the smaller pulse-curves correspond to inspiration (normal breathing). Fig. 84.—Mackenzie's "Clinical Polygraph." any respiratory variation. Hiccough apparently affects most pulses by causing a temporary arrest of the circulation and a fall of blood pressure, and very deep inspiratory and ex- piratory efforts with closed mouth and nose— the so-called Muller and Valsalva experiments