PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 54 with certain of the double sugars, are oxidised, and if a metallic salt be present which can readily give up its oxygen, it becomes reduced, the sugar appropriating the oxygen. On this depends Fehling's and many other tests for glucose. Under the influence of yeast they split into ethyl alcohol and carbon dioxide. They also form crystalline compounds, osa- zones, with phenyl - hydrazin. These have proved most useful in distinguishing diiferent sugars. By the polymerisation of two monosaccharid molecules with the loss of water, disaccharids, or double sugars, are formed. Thus, two glucose molecules polymerise to form one maltose molecule. CeHi^Og + C,Hi,Oe = 2(CeHi.O,;) - H,0 = CjoHgoOj-j^ Maltose is the sugar formed by the action of malt and other vegetable and animal zymins upon starch. By the action of dilute acids and other agents it can be split into two dextrose molecules. Like the monosaccharids, it fer- ments with yeast. Lactose, the sugar of milk, is a disaccharid composed of a molecule of dextrose united to a molecule of galactose with dehydration. It readily splits into these two monosaccharids, but does not ferment with yeast. Dextrose, polymerising with Ifevulose, yields cane sugar, and this sugar, so largely used as an article of food, can be split into dextrose and Ifevulose. It does not reduce Fehling's solution, and does not ferment with yeast. Under the action of mineral acids it breaks down into its component sugars. By further polymerisation of monosacchai'ids with the loss of water, molecules of greater size are produced and form the set of substances known as the polysaccharids. Among the simplest of these are the dextrins. Closely allied to dextrins are the inulins. But while dextrin is foi-med of dexti-ose mole- cules, inulin contains kevulose molecules. Both are formed from the splitting of the more com- plex starches. The molecule of soluble starch is built up of no less than thirty dehydrated monosaccharid molecules, and has a molecular weight of 9000. Ordinary starch seems to have a molecular weight of 20,000 or 30,000, and hence must be of still greater complexity. These polysaccharids are distinguished from the sugars by being precipitated from their solutions by the addition of alcohol. They are not oxidised when boiled with caustic jjotash, nor do they change to alcohol and carbon dioxide under the influence of yeast. In cold neutral or acid solutions most of them strike a blue or brown colour with iodine. By boiling with a mineral acid and by the influence of various ferments they break down, take up water, and become monosacchai'ids—-the starches yielding the dextroses, and inulins yielding Isevulose. Glycogen is animal starch. It gives an opalescent solution and strikes a brown colour with iodine. The energy value of the carbohydrates is about the same as that of the proteins. Energy Value of the Proximate Principles of the Food.—1 gramme of—• Protein yields . . . 4-1 Calories. Carbohydrate yields . 4*1 ,, Fat yields ... 9-3 The Sources of the Various Proximate Principles of the Food The proximate principles are in part derived from the animal, in part from the vegetable kingdoms. While some races procure their food entirely, or almost entirely, from the former, others depend almost entirely on the latter. The vast majority of mankind, however, use a mixture of animal and vegetable foods. Animal foods may be classified as— 1. Milk and its prodvicts, Cream, Butter, and Cheese. 2. Flesh. 3. Eggs. 1. Mill:—The white colour of milk is due to its being a fine emulsion of fat globules float- ing in a clear plasma. Hence, when the cream is removed, milk becomes less white and less opaque. Its specific gravity is about 1030, and in man and herbivorous animals its reaction is alkaline. The chief protein of milk is caseinogen, a nucleo-protein with a very small amount of phosphorus, which exists as a soluble calcic compound. It is held in solution in milk, but under the influence of various agents it clots or curds. Its calcic compound is split by the action of acids, and casein is precipitated. Under the influence of rennet caseinogen splits into whey albumin which remains in solution, and calcic paracasein which is insoluble and separates as a curd containing the fat. In cow's milk a small amount of an albumin is also present. The fats of milk occur as small globules of varying size floating in the fluid, each surrounded by a protein envelope which must be removed by means of an alkali or an acid before the fat can be extracted with ether. The fats are chiefly olein, with smaller quantities of palmatin and stearin, and still smaller amounts of such lower fats as butyrin, capronin, and caprylin. The carbohydrate of milk is lactose, a disac- charid, which splits into dextrose and galactose. Under the action of various micro-organisms it is split to form lactic acid, thus causing the souring of milk. Phos2)horous Compoimds.—In addition to case- inogen, milk contains other organic phosphorous