PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 51 A set of muscular fibres run between the arytenoids—the arytenoidei—while other fibres run from the arytenoids up to the side of the epiglottis. These help to close the upper orifice of the larynx. The thyro-arytenoid is a band of muscular fibres lying in the vocal cords and running from the thyroid to the arytenoids. Its mode of action is not fully understood. 4. Mucous Membrane. — The mucous mem- brane of the larynx is raised on each side into a well-marked fold above each true vocal cord— Fig. 155.—Cross section of the larynx, to show the cricoid, Cr.\ thyroid, Th.; arytenoid cartilages, Ar. The continuous line shows the parts at rest, the dotted line under the action of the lateral crico-arytenoid muscle, and the dot-dash line under the action of the posterior crico-arytenoid. the false vocal cord. Between this and the true cord on each side is a cavity—the ventricle of the larynx. The other folds of mucous mem- brane, although of importance in medicine, have no special physiological significance. The interior of the larynx may be examined during life by the laryngoscope. 5. Nerves.—The muscles of the larynx are supplied chiefly by the recurrent laryngeal branch of the vagus which comes off" in the thorax and arches upwards to the larynx. On the left side, where it curves round the aorta, it is apt to be pressed upon in aneurismal swell- ings. Paralysis of this nerve causes the vocal cord on that side to assume the cadaveric posi- tion, midway between adduction and abduction, and makes the voice hoarse or abolishes it altogether. The superior laryngeal is the great ingoing nerve, but it also supplies motor fibres to the crico-thyroid muscle. Paralysis prevents the stretching of the vocal cords, makes the voice hoarse, and renders it impossible to pro- duce a high note. Centre.—These nerves are presided over by {a) a centre in the medulla. When this is stimulated abduction of the vocal cords is brought about. (6) This centre is controlled by a cortical centre situated in the inferior frontal convolution. Stimulation of this causes adduction of the cords as in phonation, while destruction leads to no marked change. B. Physiology. — When a blast of air is forced between the vocal cords they are set in vibration both wholly and in segments like other vibrating reeds, and sounds are thus pro- duced. These sounds may be varied in loudness, pitch, and quality. The loudness or amplitude of vibration depends upon the size of the larynx and vipon the force of the blast of air acting on the cords. The pitch, or number of vibrations per second, depends upon the length and tension of the vocal cords. The greater length of tlie vocal cords in the male, as compared with the female, makes the voice deeper. The tension of the cords may be varied by the action of the crico-thyroid muscle. The power of varying the pitch of the voice differs greatly in different people. The average difference between the lowest and the highest note which the ordinary individual can produce is about two octaves. The quality of the sound depends upon the overtones which are made prominent by reso- nance in the pharynx, nose, and mouth. By varying the shape and size of these cavities, and more especially of the mouth, the quality of sound may be considerably altered. Singing Voice.—This is often classified by its average pitch and by its quality into bass and tenor in males, and contralto and soprano in females. The true, or chest, voice is produced by a blast of air from the chest setting the cords into vibration, but the falsetto voice, which is generally higher in pitch than the true voice, is probably produced by vibrations of the edges of the cords. Articulate Speech.—Spoken language is pro- duced by varying the resonating chambers of the pharynx, nose, and mouth, and thus modify- ing the sounds produced in the larynx. Whis- pered speech is produced by setting in vibration in the resonating chambers a stream of air which has not been allowed to act upon the vocal cords. In articulate speech two classes of sounds may be distinguished—(1) Voivel Soimds. These are musical sounds produced by a blast of air which is so modified by changing the shape of the mouth as to accentuate special overtones and thus produce the well-known a, e, i, o, u sounds (Fig. 156). In sounding a, the mouth resembles a funnel with the wide part forward. In i, it may be compared to a flask with the belly behind and the neck forward. In u, the flask is reversed, the belly being forward. In o, the mouth is intermediate between its position in u and a, and in e between a and i.