210 POST-MORTEM METHODS the middle line, and then cut outwards, exposing the lateral ventricles. This dissection may be sufficient to demonstrate the lesion, or subse- quent transverse, coronal, sections may be made across the basal ganglia to determine more exactly the relations of a lesion to external or internal capsules or ganglia, and portions of brain may be removed to expose the horns of the lateral ventricles. The fourth ventricle has been examined in connection with the pons. If the brain has to be preserved for further microscopic examination, it is better to make the incisions in the following manner—that of Dejerine. After removing the cerebellum and pons, separate the hemispheres, and laying each in turn on its outer surface, make one horizontal section just below the level of the corpus cal- losum, and then to expose the basal ganglia, make two vertical transverse incisions in the lower part of the hemisphere just behind the anterior extremity of the corpus callosum, and in front of its posterior extremity. These incisions expose most of the important struc- tures in which lesions may occur. In cases of recent hajmorrhage, after noting its extent and relations, the affected part may be placed under a gentle stream of water, and the brain substance washed away. This exposes the vessels, which should be examined for minute swellings—miliary aneurysms, rupture of which may have caused the haemorrhage. In old haemorrhages there may remain a shrunken, brownish mass, or a cyst with pig- mented walls containing a thin fluid. Newly formed masses in the brain may be of the nature of tumours—most commonly glioma or sarcoma—the glioma infiltrating and with ill-defined outline, the sarcoma circumscribed —tubercular caseous nodules, or gummata. To examine the middle ear it is best to remove the whole temporal bone, and examine it by sections either at once or after decalcifying. After examination of the brain is completed, return what is not required for further investi- gation, replace the calvarium and secure it in position by stitches through the divided temporal fascia. In an adult, short spikes may be driven into the diploe, in front and behind, attaching the calvarium rigidly to the base of the skull. Then sew up tightly the flaps of the scalp so that no escape of blood can take place. It is well subsequently to place a layer of cotton- wool along the line of the incision and secure all with a few turns of a bandage. No trace of blood or discharge must be allowed to remain on the surface. This concludes the post-mortem examination. Occasionally the extremities have to be ex- amined, for example, in cases of fracture, of aneurysms, of suppurations in the tissues round the bones or in the joints. In rickets, in congenital syphilis, and in other conditions aff'ecting the development of bone, it is well to expose the head of the humerus, and, sawing it longitudinally, examine the epiphyseal line. Part II A. Preservation of Tissues 1. If retention of the natural colour of a tissue or organ be not desired, wash thoroughly in running water and suspend in 50 per cent alcohol or methylated spirit, distending cavities loosely with horse-hair or cotton-wool. Change the spirit at the end of a week, and again after a similar period, if it be decolorised. At the end of three or four weeks mount permanently in 75 per cent alcohol or methylated spirit. Or, place in 5 per cent solution of commercial " formalin," or of its equivalent, a 40 per cent aqueous solution of formic aldehyde. Change if necessary, and mount in a similar solution or in methylated spirit. A simple mounting fluid for organs which contain fat is— Formalin, 5 parts. Glycerine, 30 parts. Water, 65 parts. 2. If the natural colour is to be preserved, use a method such as the following, adapted from Professor Jores. Prepare the tissue as it is to be finally mounted, wash away excess of blood, and place in the following solution :— Formalin, 8 ounces (10 per cent). Sod. sulphate, 700 grains. Magn. sulphate, 700 grains. Sod. chloride, 350 grains. Water to J gallon. Dissolve the salts in the water and add the formalin or its equivalent solution of formic aldehyde. Inject the solution into the vessels in large organs or tumours so that it may reach the central parts, and fill hollow organs. Eetain in this for forty-eight hours. Place in strong methylated spirit for twenty- four hours, changing if necessary. The spirit restores the blood colour which had been altered in the formalin solution. Preserve in pure glycerine 2 parts, water 3 parts, changing if necessary. To the final mounting fluid 1 per cent of formalin may be added to prevent growth of fungi, but this is not absolutely necessary. These directions may be taken as applicable to most tissues and organs. In the case of hollow organs, such as intestine, a much shorter time is necessary, and the action of the spirit should be carefully watched, as it is apt to decolorise the specimen. With a little practice and patience excellent results are attained. B. Preparation of Tissues for the Microscope Necessaries.—Cathcart microtome and acces- sories ; methylated ether; mucilage of gum.