83 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES and an increase of that in ammonia, similar to that found in cases of true diabetes, have also been observed. It has been suggested that the suprarenal secretion acts through the pancreas by preventing the formation of the internal secretion which has been supposed to act on the liver (see p. 84). But the evidence is not satisfactory. Its continued administration produces ather- oma of the aorta. The essential principle of the suprarenals is a substance, adrenalin, which is of the nature of a secondary alcohol linked to a benzene ring. Various more or less successful attempts have been made to prepare it synthetically. The functions of the cortex of the suprarenals are unknown. 2. Pituitary Body.—This lies at the base of the mid-brain, and consists of an anterior part of nervous tissue, some- what resembling the me- dulla of the suprarenals, and a posterior part de- rived from the alimentary canal, and consisting of masses of epithelial - like cells. Removal of this body causes in cats and dogs a fall of temperature, lassi- tude, muscular twitchings, dyspnoea, and ultimately death. Injection of ex- tracts of the substance is said to diminish these symptoms. In the healthy animal the injection of ex- tracts of the posterior or nerve parts of the pituitary causes a rise of arterial blood pressure, a dilatation of the kidney, and an increased flow of urine. A repetition of the injection may cause a fall of blood pressure, but the dilatation of the kidney and the increased flow of urine are produced. 3. Thyroid Gland (Fig. 170).—This structure is formed as a hollow outgrowth for the an- terior part of the alimentary canal, which branches and again branches. It early loses its connection with the alimentary canal, and be- comes cut up by fibrous tissue into a number of small more or less rounded cysts or follicles, each lined with epithelium, and filled with a mucus-like substance, which contains a nucleo- protein, and a substance with a marked power of combining with iodine. This has been called iodothyrin. It contains about 3'6 per cent of iodine, and it seems to be the active constituent of the internal secretion of the gland. The removal of the thyroid usually leads to a train of symptoms which varies somewhat in different animals, but is essentially the same in nearly all. The connective tissues tend to re- vert to the embryonic conditions, and the amount of mucin increases. The temperature falls, muscular tremors appear, and in dogs these may go on to convulsions. They do not dis- appear on removing the cortex cerebri, but are stopped by section of the nerves to the muscles, and thus they appear to be spinal in origin. The functions of the higher nervous system become sluggish, and the animal frequently dies. By administering the substance of the thyroid, or by giving extracts of the thyroid, most of these symptoms may be delayed or prevented. When thyroid gland or extract is given to healthy animals in moderate doses it causes an increased metabolism of both fats and proteins, and may thus induce emaciation. These phenomena seem to indicate that one function of the organ is to produce an internal secretion, which regulates the rate of the meta- FlG. 170.—Section through part of the thyroid (Th.) and a parathyroid (P.) of a mammal. bolic processes in the body by increasing them when such an increase is desirable. When the thyroid is not developed, the growth and develop- ment of the individual are partially arrested, and the condition of cretinism is produced. Atrophy of the structure in adult life causes a train of symptoms somewhat resembling those produced by its removal, and constituting the disease myxmdema. It has been suggested that a condition of increased activity of the action of the heart, usually accompanied by prominence of the eyes and swelling in the region of the thyroid—exophthalmic goitre—may be due either to increased activity of the structure or to de- ficient action of the parathyroids. 4. Parathyroids.—Two to four small nodules are found in close relationship to each lobe of the thyroid, often lying in its substance, and these are formed of columns of cells with capil- lary blood-vessels between them (Fig. 170). More or less successful attempts have been made in different animals to remove them with-