RECTUM, DISEASES OF THE 487 of a pemiliar character. The patient on rising immediately feels urgent desire to go to stool. Wind, a little loose motion, and some discharge are passed. The last resembles " coffee grounds," or is like white of egg, or is more rarely pus. The patient has tenesmus, is not relieved, and before long again has to seek the closet. This time lumpy motions smeared with blood are probably passed. After breakfast probably the bowels act again, and he is then fairly comfortable for the day, only an occasional disagreeable sensation reminding him that there is something wrong with the bowel. Mucus or muco-pus may exude from the anus. After some months there is burning pain after an evacuation, and increase in the discharge, which is more largely pus. The pain is induced by walking and standing. Diarrhoea appears now in the evening as well as in the morning, and the health begins to suffer. Anomalous pains are felt in the back, hips, legs, and perhaps penis. Alternating attacks of diarrhoea and constipation may now occur, and the diarrhoea is alternated with severe colicky pain, faintness, or sickness. Attacks of a low form of peritonitis occur. There is tympanitis and tenderness on pressiire at one or more spots on the abdomen. Examining such a case per rectum, the con- dition found varies according to the stage of the disease. Early, ulcers may be felt within two inches from the anus, with raised hard edge, painful, and readily bleeding. Then there may be lumps, either gumrnata or enlarged glands. In this stage the disease is often curable. Later there is great thickness of mucous membrane, and outside the anus are swollen tender flaps of skin. So definite is the outside appearance in advanced cases that one glance tells an expert the presence of cancer or severe ulceration. Stricture, and probably fistula, are now present. Perforation into the bladder, vagina, or peri- toneum may take place. The patient's state resembles that of a sufferer from malignant disease, and no remedy short of colotomy offers much chance of even temporarily prolonging life. Relief is possible, but cure scarcely. Palliative Treatment.—Rest in the recumbent position and a fluid diet, consisting mainly of milk, vastly improve these patients. Locally, various sedative and astringent ointments are to be used. Dysenteric cases are treated with large doses of pulv. ipecac, co. in addition, and injections of silver nitrate 20-40 grs. to three pints of water. Syphilitic subjects require a thorough course of mercury if seen early. In all bad cases inguinal colotomy is the best means of relief. Stricture of the Rectum.—All the different kinds of ulceration may result in stricture; ulceration with stricture also results from im- proper operations upon the rectum. Stricture without ulceration is somewhat uncommon. It may result from chronic inflammation caused by repeated passage of hard, dry faeces. It has been seen after frequent, perhaps rough use of an enema tube. Bruising of the bowel after a long delivery has sometimes appeared to be the cause, and in other cases there is no apparent explanation of the causation of chronic inflam- mation which seems to have gone on in the wall of the bowel. Rarely in young persons there is congenital narrowness of the lower part of the rectum. Any hard tumour in the pelvis may press upon the rectum and give rise to stricture. The symptoms of stricture are straining and difficulty in discharging the motions, which con- sist of numerous small, broken pieces. There is rarely pain in the bowel itself, but this may be felt in the penis, perineum, sacrum, thighs, buttocks, and stomach. Strictures are generally within reach and sight. When not so, the rectum must be explored with vulcanite balls of different size mounted on pewter stems. Treatment.—When ulceration is present this must be treated as described, but the stricture is also to be dealt with. Slight cases are treated with bougies, the passage of which must never be left to the patient, as deaths have occurred from passing the instrument through the wall of the bowel. Occasionally, the stricture being within two inches of the anus, a short vulcanite tube may be worn at night. Annular strictures near the anus should be divided in a few places with the knife, treatment with tubes following. The incisions go through the in- duration, reaching, but not dividing, the healthy tissue beneath. Well-oiled wool is inserted for twenty-four hours, and then the tube introduced and worn, except when the bowels act or the rectum is washed out. Strictures are very apt to return. Patients must be warned never to go long without having a bougie passed. In cases of bad ulceration, stricture, and fistula, linear rectotomy is the only treatment of use. The stricture is divided with the knife from its upper edge down to the coccyx, and through its entire depth. A finger is passed through the stricture, and a long, straight knife along the finger. If the incision is kept in the middle line bleeding is trifling only. The wound is to be well syringed and the parts kept perfectly clean. Dry absorbent wool is the best dressing. When incurable, nothing affords relief to these cases except colotomy. For all questions con- cerning this operation see "Colotomy," vol. ii. p. 187. To sum up the treatment of strictures of the rectum :— (1) Simple strictures are treated by gradual dilatations with bougies ; if they are very resilient, incisions must be made through the strictures. (2) Strictures complicated by ulceration may be first treated by bougies, but this failing, linear rectotomy is to be employed. (3) Severe cases continued with fistula and