PUPIL, THE 434 toms); Sclerotic, Diseases of [Sclerotitis, Pupil); Spine, Surgical Affections of {In- juries, Localising Syrnptoms); Syringomyelia {Symptoms) ; Tabes Dorsalis {Symptoms, Pupil Phenomena) ; Uraemia {Symptoms) ; Vision, Field of {Hemianopia, Hemiopic Pupil). It is remarkable how frequently help of the most important kind in solving the medical problems that are from time to time presented to us is afforded by a systematic and habitual close observation of the eye. Clues are indeed frequently obtained by this method, which becomes a second nature to one who has had training in ophthalmic practice, of instantly appreciating the general condition of the eye movements as the patient sits before him, their relative position, lid movements, and pupil appearances—clues which often lead directly to a correct diagnosis of cases of nervous disease which might otherwise have been entirely over- looked. Perhaps the most obvious disease which, by means of the eye symptoms it presents, can be diagnosed frequently the moment the patient enters the room, is Graves' disease, in which the bulging eyes, widely open and showing white sclera above the cornea, with dilated pupils and general aspect suggestive of intense terror, form a pictui-e familiar to every student of medicine. Yet in cases of this disease in which all the usual ocular symptoms are absent, with the goitrous swelling carefully hidden from view by frilling or a high collar in the sex which affords the large majority of these patients, how frequently the tachycardia and the nervousness that is only too apparent are wrongly ascribed to hysteria or excitement! The movements of the piupil are governed chiefly by two antagonistic muscles—the sphincter pupillse, innervated by the third nerve ; and the dilator pupilhe, which receives its nerve-supply through the cervical sympathetic. In addition to these influences, the size of the pupil will vary with the amount of blood in the vessels contained in the iris, and small oscillations of the pupil occur with each heart-beat. Thus congestion of the iris in iritis causes contraction of the pupil, while dilatation of the pupil is seen in chlorosis and other anaemias. In these latter, however, the dilatation is not alone dependent upon the condition of oligsemia, which is indeed not always present, but partly upon the stimulating effect of the venosity of the blood upon the pupil-dilating centre in the floor of the aqueduct. This effect is well seen in the rhythmic dilatation and contraction of the pupils which occur in Cheyne-Stokes breath- ing, either of cardiac or cerebral origin ; dilata- tion of the pupil occurring at the beginning of the period of dyspnoea from simultaneous stimu- lation of the pupil-dilating and respiratory centres by the venous blood, the pupil contract- ing again towards the end of the dyspna;ic period. The size of the pupils varies with structural defects of the eyes, with the age and complexion of the person. In hypermetropia the pupils are said to be generally smaller than in myopia, owing to the constant tonic contraction of the ciliary muscle in the former, with the action of which contraction of the pupils is generally associated. Convergence is, however, more in- timately associated with pupil contraction than is accommodation, but the centres for the three actions lie close together in the anterior portion of the third nucleus, and isolated paralysis of these three movements has been recorded. Habitual contraction may lead to permanent narrowing of the pupil, as is seen in engravers and etchers, jewellers, etc. If the act of con- vergence be produced without any accompanying contraction of the ciliary muscle, as can be done by placing two prisms, base outwards, in front of the eyes, and the gaze directed to a distant object, contraction of the pupils is seen to accompany the effort of convergence which is necessary to overcome the diplopia; whereas, conversely, if when the gaze is directed at a distant object two concave lenses are placed before the eyes, although accommodation is necessary to focus the object, yet the pupils do not contract. In old age and in infancy the pupils are usually considerably smaller than in youth ; and in light-complexioned persons with blue irides the deficiency of pigment, by allowing more light to pass through and stimulate the retina, causes the pupil to be generally smaller than in people of darker complexion. Many diseases of the eye are associated with alteration of the size of the pupil and Avith the pupil-reflex to light, such as vitreous opacities, choroiditis, retinitis, optic neuritis, and atrophy, the pupil becoming dilated and losing its contractility to light roughly in proportion to the degree of loss of vision. In many persons, however, who have no perception of light remaining after retinal disease or optic atrophy, the pupil may still be observed to contract slightly under the stimulus of a strong light, owing to the fact that there are special fibres contained in the optic nerve, much smaller than the visual fibres, which are concerned in the conduction of the impulses for the light reflex. In acute glaucoma the pupil is dilated, often oval vertically, and the light reflex may also be lost from the excessive intraocular pressure rendering the iris anaemic, and paralysing the nerve-endings in the sphincter pupillse. Many toxic influences affect the pupil. In the algid stage of cholera the pupils may be widely dilated, whereas in typhus the pupils are generally very small. Numerous drugs also have power over the pupil either by direct action on the nerve-endings in the iris, or by affecting the pupil-contracting or pupil-dilating centres in the pons. Cocaine applied to the