312 PRESCRIBING, AND METHODS OF ADMINISTERING DRUGS mercial products now made, has been compiled from the Codex, 1907 :— Presphenoid. the sphenoid bone. ■The anterior part of Trsde Name. B.P.C. Name. Trade Name. B.P.C. Name. Trade Name. xs.ir.i./. JName. Trade Name. B.P.C. Name. Acetysal Aceto-salicylic acid Bromo- Chiefly acetanilide Ichthalbin Albumin ichthyo- Pyraloxin v/Amiacu jjyruyttiiiu Actol Silver lactate acetanilide sulphonate Renaglan- Adrpnfn rani/l Adneph- Calcinol Calcium iodate Ichthargan Silver ichthyosul- Castor oil Magnesium ricin- phonate Renostyp- Adreii powders oleate Ichtlioform Formaldehyde ich- ticin Adrenaline Chloretone Chlorbutol thyosulplionate Salazoloue \ Airoform ) Bismuth oxyiodo- gallate Citraniine Formamol lodol lodopyrrhol SalipyrazG- f A ntitivri n aal ipv- Airogen > Collargol Silver colloid Itrol Silver citrate lon Airol ) Creosotal Creosote carbonate Kelene Ethyl chloride Salipyrin ^ late Albolene Lifjuid paraffin Cystamine Formamine Largin Silver albuminate Saletin Aceto-salicylic acid Aletodin Aceto-salicylic acid Cystogen Bismuth subgallate Laxatin Phenophthalein Solurol Thyinic acid Ammonol Chiefly acetanilide Dermatol Laxoin Styracol Criiaracol cintiaiiiate Analgen Quinalgen Dionin Ethyl morphine Levuretine Zymin Suprarena- A rlvpninp cm lie Analgesine Antipy ri ne Chiefly acetanilide hyd. Levurine Anodynin Diuretin Theobromin-sodium Neurotrop- Formamol Supraren- Anti- salicylate ine nin kamina Ductal Guaiacol carbonate New uro- Tannalbin Tannin albumin Anti- Eucaine Betacaine hydro- tropin Tannigen Acetannin sepsine chlor. Nosophen lodophenophthalein Tannocol Tanno gelatin Antitoxine Silver caseinate Euquinine Quinine ethyl car- Novargan Silver proteinate Taimoform Methyl ditannin Argonin bonate 01. deelinse Liquid paraffin Tetronal Ethyl sulphonal Argyrol Silver vitellin Europhen Butyl cresyl iodide Paraneph- Adrenine Trional Methyl „ Aristol Thymol di-iodide Exalgin Methyl acetanilide rin Uretone Formamine Arrhenal Sodium metarsenate Formin Formamine Parolein Liquid paraffin Urisol Formamol Aspirin Aceto-salicylic acid H.neraosta- Adrenine Phenalgin Chiefly acetanilide Urophenol Atoxyl Sodium anil-arsen- siue Pinol Oil of pine Urotropin Formamine ate Helmitol Formamol Proponal Homalurea Vasocon- Adrenine Benzosol Guaiacol benzoate Hemisine Adrenine Protargol Silver proteinate strictine Betol Naphthol salicylate Heroin Acetomorphine Pumiline Oil of pine Veronal Malourea Purgen Phenophthalein Xaxa Acetosalicylic acid Prescription.—The written form in which a phj^sician orders certain medicines to be made up by the chemist for use by a patient. {See Prescribing.) In Law, prescription is " the undisturbed and continuous enjoyment of a legal right for a period fixed by law, on the expiry of which all attempts to overthrow it are barred"; and, strictly speaking, insanity, by preventing a person knowing that his rights have been invaded, ought to cause suspension of the law of prescription, but it has not always had this effect in practice. Preseniiity. See Progeria. Presentation.—The relation of the long axis of the foBtus to the long axis of the uterus of the mother, the presenting part being the region of the foetus first touched by the obstetrician's hand during his examination [per vaginam) of the woman in labour. See Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism ; Labour in Multiple Pregnancy {Frequency of Fresentations); Labour, Precipi- tate AND Prolonged {Contracted Felvis, Mechan- ism with); Labour, Accidental Complications {Fresentatioji of the Cord); Labour, Obstetric Operations (Version); Pregnancy, Hemorrhage {Unavoidable, or Flacenta Prcevia). Preservation of Food-StufFs.— Various means (refrigeration, salting, tinning, smoking, and the addition of chemicals) are employed to prevent putrefaction in such food- stuffs as meat, fish, milk, butter, vegetables, and fruit; there are laws regulating the use of pre- servatives. See Milk {Adulteration, Freserva- tives). Pressure. See Aneurysm {Signs and Symptoms, Fi'essure Effects); Labour, Pre- cipitate and Prolonged {Contracted Felvis, Pressure Marks on Foetal Head) ; Labour, Acci- dental Complications {Pressure on Cord in Prolapse, etc.); Labour, Post-partum Hemor- rhage {Pressure on Uterus); Meteorology {Atmospheric Pressure) ; Nerves, Peripheral {Injuries, Pressure Lesions); Pulse {Arterial Pressure); Ulcers and Ulceration {Pressure Sore). Presternum.—The upper or anterior segment of the sternum ; the manubrium. Preston's Salt. — Carbonate of am- monium. See Ammonium. Presystolic.—Preceding the ventricular systole of the heart, or occurring during the auricular systole, e.g. & presystolic murmur. See Heart, Affections op Myocardium {Physical Examination, Auscultation). Preternatural Labour.—A labour in which some region of the foetus other than the head is the presenting part; breech cases and cross-births are included. See Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism. Prevalidin.—An ointment said to con- tain camphor, balsam of Peru, oil of eucalyptus, and oil of rosemary, combined with a base ("percutilan "); it is recommended as an inunc- tion in cases of phthisis, bronchitis, rickets, etc. Preventive Medicine.—The science of prophylaxis or the prevention of disease by