PULSE, THE 386 good condition, and that it is capable of re- sponding adequately to a call for increased work should it be demanded. Many conditions, however, may lead to a contraction of what Mackenzie has called the " field of response " of the heart, and then the change of frequency between the sitting and erect positions may reach 30 to 50 beats per minute. In people of nervous temperament, and particularly in women, the pulse-beat may become exceedingly rapid on the slightest emotion or exertion. But for the same frequency of pulse, the effect of change of posture in the male is more than twice as great as in the female. The difference is still more strongly marked in early youth. During pregnancy the tendency to abnormally rapid action of the heart on change of posture, or with moderate exercise, is sometimes very evident, and would seem to indicate that if true hyper- FIG. 1.—Tracing of the radial pulse trophy of the heart from a healthy young primipara, has Occurred it is 7i months pregnant, in the sitting , • i . position. certamly not of a compensatory nature (Figs. 1 and 2). This condition is usually a temporary one, but sometimes, after several pregnancies in rapid succession, the heart may be left with a permanently contracted field of response. Pyrexia tends to neutralise, and debility to exaggerate, this postural variation in the pulse-rate. Age may be added as a cause which influences the frequency of the pulse. Thus during the first few weeks of life a pulse-rate vary- ing from 120 to 150 may be re- garded as normal. At this age posture seems to have little effect in modifying the rate. During the second year of life the rapidity of the pulse falls from 120 to 100 beats per minute. From the third year to puberty there is still a notable diminution in the pulse-rate, and after that it remains pretty constant till the age of sixty is reached. Then a quickening may com- mence which is often proportionate to the degree of arterial degeneration, and which de- pends also on the condition of the myocardium. The pulse frequency varies w^ith the sex of the individual, and is greater in women than in men. Still, a tall woman may have a slower pulse than a small man—the larger the frame the slower the pulse as a rule. Tlie normal Fig. 2.—Tracing of the same pulse shortly after assuming the stand- ing position. Shows increased rate of pulse and fall of blood pressure. frequency in healthy people may vary very greatly, and constant rates of 40 and 100 have been noted in people apparently free from disease. Significance of Frequency of the Pulse.—Mere frequency of the pulse, without regard to the state of the temperature or respiration, may have great significance, if it is constantly beyond what one recognises as normal. In uncompen- sated valvular disease the |)ulse is abnormally rapid even when the patient is recumbent. This is also the case in all forms of myocarditis, especially where the heart muscle has suffered from excess of alcohol, or from other toxic influences. The same condition of matters may follow overstrain, e.g. the "soldier's heart," and the so-called irritable heart. In neurasthenia, both in men and women, the pulse is sometimes persistently rapid, and is almost always very soft. In exophthalmic goitre the remarkable dilatation of the arterioles all over the body leads to greatly diminished peripheral resistance, and this may partly explain the abnormally rapid heart-beat. In puerperal insanity there may be much prognostic significance in the pulse-rate alone. Should a woman become maniacal a few days after delivery, without the pulse being greatly increased in frequency, there is little or no danger to her life, although she may lose her reason. A pulse of 120 to 150 at the onset of any form of puerperal mania is of almost invariably fatal significance. A pulse ranging above 110, in a person older than twenty-five years, of the male sex, and not of nervous temperament, is, according to Copland, not without risk ; the amount of risk will depend on concomitant circumstances. A pulse which is constantly of this rate may, under these conditions, be suggestive of latent tuberculosis. Unusual slowness of the pulse may also attract attention to some morbid condition. A pulse of 50 or 60 or less may be normal to certain persons, and sometimes this feature belongs to several members of a family. The normal slow pulse is generally associated with a high arterial blood pressure, and the gouty diathesis may be the underlying cause. Those who are subject to gout, however, may have a pulse of high frequency. Pressure on the brain may cause remarkable slowing of the pulse, especially when it affects the basal portions. Intense pain, e.g. that due to gall-stones, will often slow the pulse, and the blood pressure may be raised temporarily. Stokes has noted that in some cases of peri- carditis the frequency of the pulse is diminished at the commencement of the disease. Structural lesions of the heart—fatty heart—may also give rise to very extreme states of slowness. Then there are many toxsemic conditions which lead to a slowing of the pulse-rate. On the invasion of certain specific fevers, and sometimes also before death in these cases, the pulse may