PUPIL, THE 437 the cervical lesion is practically completely transverse. This symptom must, however, accoi-d with the other facts bearing on this point to be of value; for example, if in a case of fracture-dislocation of the sixth cervical spine there is complete motor paralysis below the lesion, and a fortnight later no dilatation of the pupils to cocaine, the inference would be that the lesion was completely transverse, if there were also absolute anaesthesia below the first intercostal space; yet if the patient could definitely feel a pin-prick on his foot or leg, it is obvious that the lesion cannot be completely transverse. A most important symptom to recognise is that known as the Argyll-Robertson pupil. This was first described in the small pupils, or spinal myosis occurring in tabes, in which it was noticed that the pupils contracted normally to accommodation and convergence, but not to light, although vision might be perfectly good. The essential point, however, is the loss of the pupillary reflex to light in cases in which it can be demonstrated that the pupil is not fixed from iritic adhesions or other intra-ocular cause, and in which the afferent portion of the reflex in the optic nerve is uninjured, as proved by the vision being still preserved. The pupils are generally small, sometimes minute, so-called pin-point pupils, and there is then also sympathetic par- alysis present, with loss of reflex dilatation from stimulation of the skin. Sometimes the pupils are unequal, in which case the loss of the light reflex is mostly more advanced on the side of the smaller pupil. Rarely, the phenomenon is uniocular, the other pupil remaining normal for a time, though in the majority of these cases both pupils are ultimately affected. In other cases, again, the pupils may be medium dilated, and occasionally widely dilated; thei'e is then generally no contraction on convergence or ac- commodation. This symptom is found in the very large majority of cases of tabes, and in the later stages of general paralysis of the insane, in which the pupils may also be irregular in outline. It may be occasionally met with in other nervous diseases ; I have met with it in progressive muscular atrophy, in lead palsy, in aortic aneurysm, and occasionally in patients pre- senting themselves for slight ailments, in whom no other sign suggestive of tabes or general par- alysis could be found, but who had suffered pre- viously from syphilis. As Gowers first pointed out, the true significance of the symptom lies in its indicating, with almost absolute certainty, previous syphilis. It is a sign of nerve de- generation resulting from the late effects of the poison, and is therefore by far the most commonly met with in tabes and in general paralysis, conditions of nerve degeneration de- pendent in great degree if not entirely on previous syphilis. Congenital] syphilis may oc- casionally give rise to juvenile tabes or general paralysis, when this symptom will almost cer- tainly be present. Argyll-Robertson pupil is perhaps the most constant symptom in tabes, and is probably the earliest recognisable symp- tom, being often well marked in cases of tabes in which tlie knee-jerks may be still quite lively. Cases of tabes in which the pupil reaction is perfect are most exceptional, and the diagnosis should always be most carefully considered in such cases. Broadly speaking, the observance of this symptom will lead to the presumption that the case is probably one of tabes, or possibly general paralysis. If loss of knee-jerk be present in addition, the diagnosis of tabes will be confirmed. It is often quite easy to recognise the presence of this symptom almost at the first glance at a patient, inequality or immobility of the pupils, especially when facing the window, giving the clue, and leading to the actual test being made. In making the test, it is better to expose the eyes to strong diffused daylight than to light focussed from a lamp, the general stimulation of the retina being better from daylight, and there is then less chance of the pupils contracting with associated accommodation. Both pupils should be shaded together, and exposed to the light at the same time, in order to obtain the maximum of stimu- lus, and at the same time to compare the com- parative briskness of contraction on the two sides, since marked diminution in briskness of contraction will be almost as significant as the fully developed symptom. The anatomical lesion underlying this loss of the light reflex has not yet been demonstrated, but presumably it is due to sclerosis of the pupil reflex fibres between the point at which they leave the optic tract and the sphincter centre in the third nucleus, perhaps in Meynert's decussation. It is thought by some that it is due to nuclear degeneration, and this must almost certainly be present when there is co-existent loss of contraction to accom- modation. In most cases, however, the pupils contract briskly on convergence, and it is difficult to conceive how the sphincter pupillfe centre could be paralysed for the light reflex only, and yet work normally for convergence. We may perhaps assume that there is sclerosis of the endings of the fibres in Meynert's decussation where they impinge on the third nucleus, and that in some cases the degenerative process extends into the nucleus itself. Alteration in the pupils is often to be observed in acute cerebral disturbances. At the commence- ment of an epileptic fit both pupils become con- tracted, an irritative phenomenon, while in the transient stage of flaccid paralysis, after the convulsions have ceased, the pupils are widely dilated and insensitive to light. In meningitis the pupils are contracted in the first stage of cerebral irritation, unequal in the next stage of compression, and dilated in the third stage of paralysis. In acute mania and delirium the