423 PULSE, THE The " shock " and the apical protrusion may sometimes appear as two distinct elevations, just in the same way as the " systolic wave" in the sphygmogram may appear as a divided summit. Value of Simultaneous Cardiographic and Pulse Tracings. — The cardiographic tracing when made simultaneously with that of the radial pulse is of great assistance in the inter- pretation of the various forms of irregularity and intermittency. The impulse from the left ventricle may also often be used to time the Fio. 104.—Cardiogram to show prolonged retention ot heart's apex against the interspace ; period E is the "systolic plateau." occurrence of other movements which are some- times found over the cardiac area, or such movements may be timed with the radial pulse, which is practically the same thing. Retraction of Tissites near the Heart during the Ventricular Systole.—It is important to re- member that when the heart contracts and pushes its apex into the fourth or fifth inter- space, it at the same time draws in the tissues round the interspace. As the heart shrinks during its systole the yielding structures near it retract, and thus there is sometimes a sucking in of the skin over certain areas at the time of the pushing out of the skin by the left ventricular apex (apex-beat). We may briefly consider a few of these movements, and their relation- ship to the cardiogram of the left apex-beat or to the radial pulse. Epigastric Pidsation. — First with regard to epigastric pulsation. In the acute dilatation of the heart of diphtheria, acute pneumonia, and rheumatism, as well as in advanced valvular dis- ease, one frequently observes very marked pul- sation in the epigastric region. This is an important symptom, because it shows that the right side of the heart has enlarged sufficiently to cause a movement of the skin over this area during the systole. Sometimes the skin in this region is pushed out during the systole in the same manner as it is in the fifth interspace by the apex-beat, but this is very unusual. The usual movement, when any pulsation is found, is a distinct retraction of the skin in this situation at the time of the ventricular systole. In the dilated heart it is necessary to fully appreciate the fact that the right ventricle practically occupies the whole of the cardiac dulness ; only a small strip of the left ventricle lies superficially enough to be included in this area. Hence under these circumstances, as Mackenzie has pointed out, what is felt as the apex-beat may not be produced by the pro- trusion into the interspace of the hardened left ventricular apex. The dilated right ven- tricle is now occupying this situation, and at the time of its systole, instead of a "pushing out" of the interspace, there is a "sucking in." Thus a fall will be pro- duced in the cardiographic tracing at this time instead of a rise when the " re- ceiver " is recording the movement. Should the right ventricle be suffi- ciently dilated to extend into the epigastrium a similar movement will be obtained in that region at the time of its systole. Here the " sucking in" may possibly be accentuated, because the left ventricle, wiien it contracts and hardens, tends to pull the right ventricle inwards, that is, away from the epigastrium. With regard to epigastric pulsation, then, a simultaneous record of the two events, heart and pulse, shows that the systolic portion of the pulse-curve corresponds to a depression in the cardiogram, which indicates that the epi- gastrium has been drawn in instead of pushed out at the time of the ventricular contraction (Fig. 105). Mackenzie has called this the Fig. 105.—The "inverted cardiogram" from the epigastrium. A depression in the cardiographic tracing occurs at the time of the systole of the ventricle; E in radial pulse tracing. (Boy set. 16 with greatly dilated heart.) "inverted cardiogram," and in adults he finds that it is almost invariably due to the systolic contraction of the right ventricle. Such a type of cardiogram, if obtained over the usual situa- tion of the apex-beat, shows that the right ventricle is occupying that part of the cardiac dulness, and signifies extreme dilatation of the heart. In children, however, the writer has occasionally found that epigastric pulsation is due to a greatly enlarged left ventricle, and a tracing of a fairly typical cardiogram is obtained (Fig. 106). It is difficult to see how the left ventricle can occupy this situation unless the whole heart is tv/isted round on its long axis.