35 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES high—is seen in cases of failure of the heart, when that organ is not acting sufficiently strongly to pass the blood on from the venous into the arterial system. Here the arterial pressure becomes lower and lower, the venous pressure higher and higher, and along with this the capillary pressure becomes high in relationship to the arterial pressure. The blood is not forced through these channels, and con- gestion of the capillaries and dropsy may result. The influence of gravity plays a very im- portant part on the capillary pressure, since it has so marked an influence on the flow of blood in the veins. When, through heart failure, the blood is not properly sucked up from the inferior extremities, this increased pressure becomes very marked indeed. ?>rd. But the pressure in the capillaries may also to a certain extent be varied by the with- drawal of water from the body, as in purgation or diuresis, or by the addition of large quantities of fluid to the blood. The venous system is, C V B c FlQ. 139.—The changes in blood pressure in the capillaries pro- duced by increasing the arterial pressure - - , and by obstructing the venous flow — . A, Arteries; C, capillaries; V, veins. however, so capacious that very great changes in the amount of blood in the vessels may take place without materially modifying the arterial or capillary pressure while affecting temporarily the venous pressure. III. Pressure IN THE Veins.—The pressure in the veins is so low that it may best be determined by a water manometer. In the veins the force of inflow is small; the resistance to outflow is nil. Hence the pressure is small, and steadily diminishes from the small veins to the large veins entering the heart (Fig. 139). The venous pressure may be modified by variations in these two factors. Constriction of the arterioles tends to lower the venous pres- sure, dilatation to raise it. On the other hand, increased heart's action, which so markedly tends to raise arterial pressure, diminishes the pressure in the larger veins, because the blood is thus more rapidly driven from veins into arteries, and because the heart, which in its powerful systole drives out more blood, in its diastole sucks in more. Compression of the thorax has a very marked effect in retarding the flow of blood from the great veins into the heart, and thus tends to raise the venous pressure and to lower the arterial pressure. Venous pressure may be temporarily modified by the loss or gain of tvater. IV. Pressure in the Lymphatics.—No exact determination of the lymph pressure in the tissue spaces has been made, but since there is a constant flow from these spaces through the lymphatic vessels and through the thoracic duct into the veins at the root of the neck, the pres- sure in the tissue spaces must be higher than the pressure in the great veins. This pressure is kept up by the formation of lymph from the blood, and from the cells of the tissues {see p. 10). B.—Flow of Blood The flow of blood, as already indicated, de- pends upon the distribution of pressure, a fluid always tending to flow from the point of higher pressure to the point of lower pressure. Since a high pressure is maintained in the aorta and a low pressure in the veins entering the heart and in the cavities of the heart during its diastole, the blood must flow through the circulation from arteries to veins. Velocity.—The velocity of the flow of a fluid depends upon the width of the channel. Since in unit of time unit of volume must pass each point in a stream if the fluid is not to accumu- late at one point, the velocity must vary with the sectional area of the channel. In the case of a river, in each second the same amount of water must pass through the narrowest and through the widest part of its channel. Now for a ton of water to get through any point in a channel one square yard in sectional area in the same time as it takes to pass a point in a channel ten square yards in area, it must obviously flow with greater velocity. This may be stated in the proposition that the velocity (V) of the stream is equal to the amount of blood passing any point per second (v) divided by the sectional area of the stream (S)— where S is the radius squared multiplied by the constant 3" 14. In the vascular system the sectional area of the aorta is small when compared with the sectional area of the smaller arteries; while the sectional area of the capillary system is no less than 700 times greater than that of the aorta. In the venous system the sectional area steadily diminishes, although it never becomes so small as in the corresponding arteries, and where the great veins enter the heart it is about twice the sectional area of the aorta (Fig. 140). This arrangement of the sectional area of the