RAYNAUD'S DISEASE 469 i at this stage objective blunting of sensation to touch can often be recognised. Marked anaes- thesia to touch may coexist with severe sub- jective pain. The power of movement of the affected fingers or toes may be temporarily im- paired. This is probably not a true motor palsy, but due to deficiency of afferent impres- sions causing clumsiness of the fingers. In exceptional cases slight secretory phenomena have been observed in the form of cold per- spiration in the affected parts. The distribution of these phenomena varies. It may be unilateral or bilateral. Sometimes it is so exactly symmetrical that the identical digits are affected in both hands. The terminal phalanx alone may be attacked, or the condi- tion may extend upwards along two or more phalanges, or may even, in rare cases, involve the whole hand or foot. The thumb frequently escapes, the other fingers seeming to be equally liable. One or more fingers may be affected at a time. The duration of a paroxysm may be momen- tary or may last for hours. Numerous attacks —twenty to thirty per diem—may occur in rapid succession, or the paroxysms come at longer intervals :—^weekly, monthly, or perhaps only in winter. The return to normal after an attack also varies in different cases. In some it is sudden, in others pallor is followed by a stage of reaction with tingling, burning pains, and local heat and redness. Or the con- dition may pass on to the second stage—that of local cyanosis. In its mildest form local syncope is popularly known as "dead finger," a condition not un- common in nervous people and in otherwise healthy individuals on exposure to cold, mental excitement, etc. In predisposed individuals the attack often comes on whilst washing the hands in the mornings, or while performing fine digital move- ments, such as piano-playing or sewing. As a rule, during an attack the accessible arteries of the limb are not perceptibly altered in calibre, though occasionally the pulse may be reduced in volume. In a few cases haemo- globin has been found free in the blood-plasma of the affected finger (local hsemoglobinsemia). Repeated attacks tend to make the fingers thin, parchment-like, and conical—sclerodermia. In spite of numerous attacks, however, the general health is not necessarily impaired, and the condition remains a purely local one. (2) Local Asphyxia or Cyanosis.—This is a stage of the disease in which there is sudden discoloration of the skin, varying in tint from a dusky blue or slate-colour to an intense purplish-black. Sometimes an admixture of red may be present. Pressure on the discoloured part causes a white mark which persists for some time, lividity returning to it with great slowness. The parts adjacent to the affected area often show a bluish mottling, which in exceptional cases spreads over the whole body. The local temperature falls during the par- oxysm to an extent corresponding to the dura- tion of the cyanosis. A slight degree of swelling, not oedematous nor indentible on pressure, is fairly common. If the cyanotic area be pricked, dark blood escapes, unless gangrene be about to set in, when no blood flows. The veins of the cyanotic parts are sometimes distended; in rare cases they have been seen spasmodically contracted, and Sir T. Barlow has observed a beaded ap- pearance, rapidly shifting in position, in the veins. In a considerable number of instances the cyanosed part sweats freely, especially when it is beginning to regain its normal colour. Local cyanosis may either develop directly from the normal, or it may follow an antecedent stage of local syncope. Pallor and cyanosis may succeed each other, and conversely, in the same patient. Or there may be pallor of the distal phalanx with cyanosis of the proximal, or vice versa. As the paroxysm of cyanosis subsides—which it may do after a period varying from a few minutes to several hours—there may either be an interval of active hypersemia or a gradual subsidence of the lividity by the appearance in the dusky area of bright spots, gradually coal- escing. Other cases, again, pass directly from the stage of cyanosis into that of gangrene. Cases of sclerodermia from Raynaud's disease nearly always manifest at some stage the symp- toms of local asphyxia. Subjective symptoms are sometimes absent; more often, however, during a paroxysm there is pain of a burning or stinging description, which may be of agonising intensity. Ansesthesia, analgesia, or thermantesthesia may be present, separately or conjointly, or hyperalgesia may occur. On the other hand sensation is sometimes unaffected. As to distribution, whilst local syncope seldom occurs except in the limbs, local cyanosis, though preferring the limbs (and the upper rather than the lower), frequently attacks the ears and face. The distal parts of the limbs, ears, and nose are most commonly affected ; the cheeks, chin, and tongue less frequently. Patches of lividity on the trunk or on the proximal segment of a limb are uncommon. The order in which different parts are attacked is extremely variable, and is not always the same in successive paroxysms. As a rule the parts affected are roughly sym- metrical, though vmilateral paroxysms also occur. (3) Symmetrical Gangrene.—In this variety of the disease trophic changes are superadded to vaso-motor phenomena, gangrene being the final stage towards which the others tend. It is usually preceded by local asphyxia, and often by local syncope also.