563 RHEUMATISM—KHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS look as if there had been some atrophy of all the parts concerned—bones and soft parts alike. This condition is present in association with spindle-shaped enlargement of joints rather than in the more chronic type with bony out- growth. The anatomical changes in the joints are in- variably associated with more or less atrophy of muscles of the limb; sometimes the atrophy is extreme, and adds gi-eatly to the general de- formity. The extensors of the joints suffer usually more than the flexors. In the hand the interossei muscles suffer, especially the dorsal interossei. The thenar and hypothenar emi- nences do not escape, and the general wasting of muscles of the limb may be so decided as to simulate the changes in progressive muscular atrophy. The reaction of degeneration is usually absent. The wasting of muscles bears no necessary proportion to the degree of involve- ment of the joint, and it may be very marked where the joint changes are slight or moderate. Fig. 4 shows a case with extreme wasting of the muscles of the leg. The tendon reflexes in the affected limbs are frequently, but not invariably, in- creased. The deformities resulting from the joint and muscle changes have been FiQ. 4. studied and de- scribed by many writers. In the hands a common and early change is ulnar deflection of the fingers at the metacarpo-phalangeal joints. At first the deflection is slight and easily reduced, later it may become extreme, and only pai'tially or not at all reducible. The other deformities of the hand depend on flexion and extension of the phalanges on each other, or on the metacarpal bones. The knee joint in advanced cases is almost invariably flexed. The ankle joint is frequently fixed, the foot abducted, and the great toe deflected to the outer side. The temporo-maxillary joint may be ankylosed, and the patient \mable to masticate; and the head may be fixed, either in a natural position or in a position of flexion or rotation, from changes in the cervical spine. The causes of the deformities are briefly either— (a) Ankylosis or partial ankylosis of joints, or changes in the form of the articular surfaces. {b) Atrophy of certain groups of muscles and increased tonicity or spasm of others, leading to disturbance of normal relations of muscular groups to one another, and in extreme cases causing actual dislocation of bones, partial or complete. (c) Changes in the ligaments and tendons about the joint, commonly in the direction of increased laxity or destruction. {d) The effect of gravity and habitual posture. Most of the deformities of rheumatoid arthritis are not peculiar to it, but may be present also in other chronic affections of the joints, such as gout, and in various diseases of the central nervous system where the nutrition of muscles and joints is affected. Polyarticular rheumatoid arthritis does not consist only in the joint changes and their results, but presents other clinical features of interest. The temperature is usually normal, but even in the less acute cases may show irregular even- ing rises of one or two degrees, with occasional more decided fever. Such pyrexial periods may alternate with times when no rise is noted, and do not appear to be connected necessarily with obvious extension of the disease. The pulse varies. It has been pointed out by Spender, Dyce Duckworth, and others, that a rapid pulse may be present, and the former author attaches great importance to the fact, and considers it to be of very frequent occur- rence and of diagnostic value. He speaks of a pulse-rate of 110, 115, 120, and even 140 in apyrexial cases, and in association with coldness of the surface. The opinion of clinical observers generally will probably be that such decided persistent rapidity of the pulse as this is not the rule, and it is an undoubted fact that, even in cases show- ing slight evening fever, the pulse-rate may not rise above 90 for weeks together. In some cases there is irregularity of the pulse, and it tends to become temporarily quickened by slight causes. Anaemia is present in most cases to a greater or less extent. It is usually moderate in degree, persistent, and not easily amenable to treatment. In some cases the anaemia is very striking. The hsemoglobin value of the individual red corpviscle is reduced, and there may be some relative increase of white cells. The presence of anemia is considered by some writers as evidence of bacterial toxsemia. Bouchard gives 91 cases of antemia in 1000, a proportion smaller than experience in this country would suggest. The lymphatic glands, especially those of the axilla and groin, may be enlarged in certain cases in adults. Bannatyne states that he has found a chain running up from affected joints. He has never found an enlarged spleen. Still and others mention enlargement of glands in children, especially those of the axilla and groin. In children the spleen is enlarged in one, at least, of the conditions called rheumatoid arthritis. The state of the patient as regards ^awi varies