'—DIAGNOSIS OF PREGNANCY PREGNANCY, PHYSIOLOGY OF 232 subject to certain fallacies. A solid part of an ovarian tumour, when moved between the two hands, may impart a sensation similar to that of the foetus in the liquor amnii. As practised in vaginal examination, when the patient's shoulders are raised, ballottement is one of the most reliable signs of pregnancy that we possess. It can generally be felt from the fifth to the eighth month, and can be simulated by nothing else. Vaginal ballottement is of special value in the diagnosis of hydramnios, when many of the ordinary signs of pregnancy are observed. It these cases vaginal ballottement is most clearly made out. It is of value also because it can be practised when the foetus is dead if the liquor amnii has not escaped. It should be noted also that not only may a large foetus and absence or deficiency of the liquor amnii obscTire this sign, but that a malpresenta- tion, such as a breech or placenta prsevia, may make its recognition difficult or impossible. Intermittent Contractions of Uterus.—The consistence of the uterus during pregnancy as felt on abdominal or vaginal examination will be found to vary from time to time. This variation is due to intermittent contraction and relaxation of its muscular wall. The interval between the contractions varies from five to fifteen minutes, and the duration of a contrac- tion is from three to five minutes. On bi- manual examination they can be felt as early as the third month, and they continue throughout pregnancy. They are not absolutely positive signs of pregnancy, as they are occasionally felt in soft, rapidly growing fibrous tumours, but so very rarely that their presence may be taken as very strong presumptive evidence. They con- tinue though the foetus is dead. Foetal Heart Sounds.—Mayor of Geneva in 1816 first pointed out that on auscultating the abdomen of a pregnant woman after mid-term the sounds of the foetal heart could be heard. In rare cases they may be recognised as early as the eighteenth week. They are generally compared to the sounds of a watch ticking under a pillow. The average frequency is from 135 to 140 per minute. They are less frequent in large than in small children. The intensity of the sounds increases with the development of the child, but there is little change in their rapidity from the time they are first noticed till the end of pregnancy. The point of maximum intensity on the abdominal wall varies, of course, with the presentation and position of the foetus. Frank- enhauser's statement that the average rate of pulsation is greater in the female than the male is now considered to be erroneous. Uterine Souffle.—A second sound heard from the fifth month onward is of the nature of a soft blowing murmur synchronous with the maternal pulse. It is due to the passage of the blood through the dilated and tortuous uterine arteries, and is therefore best heard over the sides of the uterus. The intensity varies very much in different cases, but it is to be heard almost constantly after the fifth month. As a similar bruit is found very often in fibrous and occasionally in ovarian tumours, the uterine bruit is not alone of great value in diagnosing pregnancy. Funic Soiiffle.—A soft bruit synchronous with the foetal heart may also occasionally be heard. It is supposed to be due to some disturbance of the circulation in the cord produced by pressure. The Changes in the Vagina in Pregnancy. —During early pregnancy, in the great majority of cases, the mucous membrane of the vulva and vagina is of a pale-violet colour, changing to deeper bluish tinge in the later months. It is noticed often as early as the second month, and is generally known as Jacquemier's test, and was first pointed out in 1837. The cause is a stasis of blood in the dilated vaginal blood- vessels. It is not a constant sign. Chadwick found it absent in 17 per cent of cases at the end of the third month. It is, however, usually present, and is a valuable corroborative sign in the early months when diagnosis is most diffi- cult. Nor is it an infallible sign, for a similar discoloration is sometimes got in cases of fibroid and ovarian tumours, especially when these are impacted in the pelvis, and are obstructing the venous circulation in the pelvis. Softening and Enlargement of the Vaginal Portion o f the Cervix. — To the expert in vaginal examination these changes have a high diagnostic value from the third month onward. It has been stated that the absence of these changes in the cervix in a doubtful case of abdominal swelling reaching beyond the umbilicus may be taken as almost certain evidence of the non- existence of an intra-uterine pregnancy. The softening of the cervix, which is got in the early stages of the cervical catarrh, and some- times in intramural fibroid tumours, is not likely to be mistaken for the softening that occurs in pregnancy, except in the early months when it is not well marked. The Softening and Compressibility of the Lower Uterine Segment.—This was first drawn attention to by Hegar in 1884, and is generally known as Hegar's sign. It can be noticed best if the lower part of the body of the uterus is grasped between two fingers—one in the rectum, the other in the vagina—when the difference between the comparatively hard cervix and upper part of the uterus on the one hand, and the soft lower uterine segment on the other, is felt to be very marked, and the compressibility of the lower uterine segment is easily made out. The softening and broadening out of the lower uterine segment can be made out also by simple vaginal examination through the anterior and posterior fornices. To the expert Hegar's sign is of great value in the diagnosis of early pregnancy. Changes in the Uterus.—-The changes in the