RHEUMATISM, ACUTE 541 through the tonsils, and may be found in the interstitial framework in the neighbourhood of the small blood-vessels; but to isolate them from the numerous micro-organisms that are always present in the throat is a very difficult undertaking in the present state of our know- ledge. The Cutaneous Lesions.—Apart from the sudamina and miliaria, there is in most of the rheumatic lesions great dilatation of the blood capillaries, and often, as in purpura, actual rupture of their walls. In addition, in some cases there is considerable exudation into the subcutaneous tissues, a change which is especi- ally noticeable in erythema nodosum. Infarction.—The occurrence of infarcts in the viscera in rheumatic fever is an interesting problem. They occur far more frequently in malignant endocarditis, and are ascribed to the detachment of portions of the exuberant vege- tations or to detached blood-clot. In simple rheumatism they occur most usually in ad- vanced mitral lesions. The Blood.—There is usually well-marked coagulation of the blood after death. Symptoms and Course. — Rheumatic fever has no definite incubation period, and the onset may be either acute or, as is more usually the ease, gradual. When the onset is acute there is some definite history of chill or exposure from which the illness is dated, and the first symp- toms generally show themselves within a week. There is a feeling of malaise, with moderate fever and chilliness ; there may be a sore throat or stiff neck, and the eyes look dull and heavy. Muscular feebleness, fleeting pains in the limbs, and prostration follow, and usually in the adult acute multiple arthritis develops and makes the diagnosis clear. When the onset is gradual there are often vague symptoms, which, now the disease is recognised as infective, are of much interest. Anaemia, irritability, loss of energy, and wasting are frequent, especially in young subjects. Again, headache, epigastric pain, and stiffness in the muscles and joints are very suspicious symptoms, the more so if they are accompanied with a slight rise of temper- ature. The acute attacks of rheumatic fever in adult life we associate with a rapid and transient multiple arthritis, which quickly renders the patient quite helpless, and at the same time makes the nature of the illness apparent. Yet it is unfortunately the case, that with them as with children, the first unequivocal sign of rheumatic fever may be inflammation of the heart and not arthritis, and this carditis may have been in existence for some days before precordial pain and breathlessness convince the patient that he is seriously ill. A severe attack of the arthritic type of rheu- matic fever is at its height a very characteristic disease. The sufferer lies in bed quite helpless. dreading the slightest movement; many of the larger joints, and not infrequently the smaller ones as well, are swollen and extremely tender. Over the joints, which feel hot to the touch, there may be a red flush, and the implication of the tendons and the periarticular tissues in this transitory inflammation add to the dis- tress. From day to day joints which were previously unaffected are attacked, and others already in- flamed begin to subside often with great rapidity. The temperature is raised to a moderate degree (102°), but runs no definite course. The mind is clear and as a rule acute; the tongue is thickly coated with a white fur. In many cases there is profuse sweating, and the sour odour that is present has long been pointed out as a feature of the illness. If the sweating is profuse there is considerable thirst, but the appetite is lost, and bowels are often consti- pated. The pulse varies with the extent of the implication of the heart, but it is usually in- creased in rate, regular, with a large wave, and easily compressible. Examination of the heart very frequently shows that there is a definite dilatation. The impulse is diffuse ; the area of deep cardiac dulness increased, especially toward the left; the first sound of the heart over the region of the impulse is short, and the second sound over the pulmonary area accentuated. In addition there may be a soft systolic murmur heard most plainly internal to and slightly above the left nipple. This represents the earliest affection of the heart in rheumatic fever, and this eminently recoverable condition may drift almost imper- ceptibly into organic valvular disease. The clinical importance, therefore, of this dilatation is, as Dr. D. B. Lees has insisted, great. The respiratory system is but little affected. Except for anxiety and distress of mind, with insomnia from the pain, there are no definite nervous disturbances. The urine is scanty, high-coloured, and strongly acid ; the chlorides are diminished, and the urates are increased and form a thick deposit. Hsematoporphyrin is sometimes present in large quantities. The course of the illness is very indefinite, and may be protracted by repeated relapses over many weeks. An acute attack lasts, as a rule, about three weeks, but at the present time active treatment is so commonly adopted that it hardly serves a useful purpose to lay down any definite duration for the illness. Rhe\imatic fever is one of those diseases from which convalescence is often slow, and in which it is extremely difficult to feel sure when all active symptoms are at an end. Recovery finds the patient anaemic and prostrate, and it is not uncommon to find that the joints remain stiff' and muscles tender for a long time after the recovery is otherwise complete. On the other