OPTIC NERVE 518 RETINA AND position, from thirty to fifty, predisposed to this form of atrophy. The more immediate causes mentioned are severe bodily fatigue and hardships, especially exposure to cold and insutficient nourishment, grief and anxiety, mental excitement and exhausting brain-work, irregular habits of life, sexual excess, etc. But the great predisposing cause, common to a large proportion, at least, of these cases of grey degeneration, is syphilis. The effect is attrib- uted to the action of a toxine developed in the post-tertiary stage of this disease. Pathology.—The nervous elements of the trunk of the nerve are involved in all cases of optic atrophy, and, according to the number of fibres affected, there is a corresponding loss of function. The histological condition of the atrophied nerve varies somewhat, according to the nature of the initial pathological process, and dissimilar appearances may be presented in sections through different parts of the same nerve-trunk. Thus, in atrophy following a neuritis, we find the usual post-inflammatory changes at the seat of the inflammation, while the remainder of the nerve may present the appearance found after a simple or non-inflam- matory atrophic process. As previously men- tioned, neuritis leads to hypertrophy of the interstitial connective tissue; the constant con- traction of the meshes in which the nerve-fibre bundles lie, subjects the latter to pressure, interfering at first with their function, and ultimately with their structural integrity. The nerve-fibres involved either finally break down and are removed, or they undergo grey de- generation ; in the former case the diameter of the nerve is much reduced. In the case of a neuritis at or near the intraocular end of the nerve, the walls of the central blood-vessels are thickened and their lumen is diminished—partly in consequence of this change in their walls, partly from the pressure exerted by the hyper- trophied connective tissue surrounding them. In simple atrophy there is seldom much in- crease of connective tissue. The nerve-fibres lose their medullary sheath by a process of granular fatty degeneration, while the axis- cylinders are usually retained, but converted into fine indistinct fibrils. There is, conse- quently, little change in the size of the nerve, which has the appearance of a translucent, grey, gelatinous-looking cord. This "grey degenera- tion," as it is called, is the most common form of simple atrophy. Occasionally we do find considerable thickening of the connective-tissue framework, which may presumably be due, either to a primary sclerosis of a low chronic inflammatory nature, or to a hyperplasia of connective tissue secondary to degeneration and shrinking of the nerve-fibres. In the great majority of cases both nerves are affected, though one may be considerably in advance of the other. Unilateral optic atrophy is to be explained by the one-sided nature of the preceding inflammation or other local cause. Symptoms.—The prominent symptom in every case of optic atrophy is failure of vision. The occurrence of this failure is usually gradual, but varies greatly in rapidity in different forms and different cases. There is also much variation in the manner in which the field is affected. An examination of the central vision by test-types is necessarily of great practical importance, but the character of the loss—as regards the visual field, colour-perception, and light-sense—is often of greater value in judging of the causation and in forming a prognosis {see articles "Ambly- opia," "Vision, Field of"). The nature of the visual failure in cases of atrophy secondary to neuritis has already been described. In atrophy from chronic retinal de- generation, the failure is usually gradual, central vision often remaining acute after the rest of the field has been lost. In atrophy due to pressure upon the nerve- fibres behind the eyeball, vision often fails suddenly. In other cases the failure is gradual and partial, and sometimes only the temporal half of the visual field is lost in each eye (as in pressure on the posterior part of the chiasma from tumour of the pituitary body). In simple primary atrophy the loss of vision begins insidiously, and proceeds slowly and continuously, but may, in exceptional cases, come to a standstill while moderately useful vision still remains. Besides the central failure, there is marked contraction of the visual field, sometimes occurring in a uniform concentric mannei', but naore frequently in a less regular way so as to cavise sector-shaped defects. Affec- tion of the colour-sense is almost constant, green being the colour first confused, while later per- ception fails for red, blue, and, lastly, yellow. In the final stage of atrophy all colour distinc- tions are lost; but there is no constant relation between the degree of the loss of colour-sense and the amount of the amblyopia. The condition of the pupils at rest should be noted in all cases. They are usually wide in atrophy following neuritis, small in tabetic cases, and either wide or of medium size in other forms. In tabes and in general paralysis the pupils are often unequal in size. If any vision remains, the behaviour of the pupils to light is of importance; in tabes they are in- active, while still contracting well when the eyes converge in looking at a near object (Argyll-Robertson pupil). In other forms of atrophy, so long as vision remains, the pupil continues to show a response to light {see article " Pupil "). Ophthalmoscopic Appearances.—The elements of the optic disc which undergo the atrophic change are the nerve-fibres and the capillaries. Atrophy of the capillaries causes pallor, while the nerve-fibre atrophy is ophthalmoscopically