411 PULSE, THE seen. But should the pulse become temporarily slower the prolonged diastolic phases will soon make their appearance. This is a common type of pulse irregularity in animals (Fig. 68). As the child grows older there is a natural shaving of the pulse. It is probable that the physiological inhibition of the heart is not fully developed in early infancy, hence the great frequency of the beats during the first few months of life. It has been found that stimu- lation of the vagus has not the same restraining influence upon the heart-beats in infants that it has in adults. Therefore we may find the explanation of this peculiar pulse irregularity, 1 ■ i 1 the FlQ. 67.—The characteristic type of irregularity in a child set. 4 years. Systolic periods (E) equal; diastolic periods (G) unequal. The shorter pulse-beats would seem to occur during the inspiratory part of respiration {see infra). which is certainly most strikingly developed at the time when the pulse is naturally slowing down after infancy, in the fact that the vagus is beginning to exert more decided control over the heart. The Causes of Pulse Irregularity in Children. —This type of pulse irregularity in its most marked form would certainly appear to be a purely nervous phenomenon. Cushny calls it a "true auricular intermission." He says the emission of the impulse from the auricle to the ventricle is, for some reason, retarded. The ventricular rhythm is dominated by the auricular, so the ventricle must wait till impulse descends to it. There is no reason, he points out, why the auricular contraction should be retarded for a whole cycle, and, as a matter of fact, it almost always occurs shortly after its proper time. This is quite an exact description, but the writer does not consider that it is either necessary or advisable to speak of this frequent halt in the pulse as an intermission. A whole heart- beat is not missed out, and he cannot agree with Cushny that the auricle is the controlling influence in the production of the irregularity. In animals it may be so, and perhaps also in adults, where an intermission which might be of this nature occurs at very rare intervals, during which no cardiac sounds can be heard. In children, at all ages, the writer has made very numerous observations on this type of pulse irregularity, and the matter has been studied from various points of view. The Influence of Respiration on the Pulse- Rhythm.—By taking simultaneous records of the pulse and respiratory curves, it has been possible to note the effects of inspiration and expiration on the form and duration of the pulse-wave. The movements of inspiration and expiration in the child apparently influence the radial pulse in a more marked manner than is generally appreciated, and to a greater degree than is usually observed in adults. By deep respiratory movements there are great altera- tions produced in the quantity of blood reaching the medulla. Diminished or increased blood pressure in the vessels of the medulla will lead to depression or stimulation of the various centres resident there, and thence to the development of certain effects on the heart and blood- vessels. We do not mean to assert that the youthful type of pulse irregularity is always or even usually due to the influence of respiration on the vagus centre, but in many cases the pulse trac- ing may show a distinct respira- tory rhythm of this nature {see Fig. 67). We would go the length of saying that respiration, either directly or indirectly, is intimately associated with the production of the so-called youthful type of irregularity. In some instances, however, it is difficult to see how it participates, for when a child holds its breath the irregularity is still as marked as ever, and in other cases one finds both the usual form of irregularity and also another, which is clearly due to respiration. The Influence of the Vagus.—This youthful type of pulse irregularity is by no means un- common in young adults of nervous tempera- ment. Perhaps the pulse, when first examined, becomes unduly rapid, and the vagus control is Fig. 68.—Sphygraogram taken from the leg of a young dog to show the ' type of irregularity "; is probably due to respiration. youthful temporarily overbalanced. As the vagus begins to regain its influence a slowing of the pulse occurs, and then its halting, hesitating character becomes apparent. We therefore believe that this form of irregularity is largely the result of over-action on the part of the vagus. Such over- action may, of course, be dependent on many causes, among which respiration has already been mentioned as one of the most constant and important. An over-acting vagus produces the retardation noticed in some of the pulse-beats, or, in other words, results in the occasional delay of a systolic contraction (Fig. 69). Under the action of digitalis a pulse irregularity of this kind is often produced (Fig. 70).