413 PULSE, THE for the so-called "true ventricular intermission," where the ventricle misses out an entire beat, but the cardiograph or stethoscope will decide the question. The occurrence of this type of FIG. 73.- ' Pulsus alteriians "—exaggerated development of the premature systole in the bigeminal pulse. irregularity in children is excessively rare, still it is sometimes met with. These premature systoles may occur singly at rare intervals, or there may be a series of them following the regular ven- tricular contraction. When the systole and the pre- mature systole are of nearly the same size, and there is a long diastolic period between each pair of them, the pulse is some- times called an alternating one —pulsus alternans (Fig. 73); it is simply an exaggerated degree of the bigeminal pulse. When the full systole is followed by two premature systoles we get the so-called trigeminal pulse (Fig. 74), and if three abortive contractions follow the full ven- to the tracings shown in Fig. 79, which were taken from the same patient a few minutes after obtaining Fig. 77, another heart-beat is seen to occur during the pause. These sphyg- mograms tend to support the contention that a true ven- tricular intermission is exceed- ingly rare, and that in most instances the ventricle really makes a second and premature attempt to contract. The Strong Pulse-beat after the Irregularity. — After the premature systole there is a long diastolic period, and during this time the arterial pressure falls to a very low point. The left ventricle becomes rather over-filled, and therefore there is almost always a specially Fig. 74.—The "trigeminal pulse," a, a ; the " quadrigeminal pulse," 6, b. tricular beat it is a, quadrigeminal pulse (Fig. 74). After the first full systolic contraction a whole series of premature beats may occur (Fig. 75), and sometimes the entire sphygmogram may be composed of such imma- ture systoles when the pulse is a rapid one. The bigeminal, trigem- inal, and quadrigeminal pulses are usually readily recognised, but sometimes when there is a regular irregularity, which occurs after every second, third, or fourth beat, the ap- pearances produced are very similar {see Figs. 76, 77, and 78). The long pause, at first sight, seems to be due to a simple prolongation of the diastolic portions of the curve, but a second ventricular beat really occurs during the interval. By referring Fig. 75.—Series of premature systoles (a). strong beat after the irregularity (Fig. 80). In the adult type of pulse irregularity, then, the ventricle — owing, perhaps, to excessive irritability of its muscle—contracts a second time before its normal diastolic period is com- pleted. The part of the diastolic phase at which the second con- traction occurs is variable, and ac- cording to its posi- tion so will its character vary. The Shortened Diastolic Period following the Premature Beat of the Heart. — Sometimes, though very rarely, the premature beat occurs Fig. 76.—Regular irregularity after every second beat (the second beat may be a very exag- gerated premature systole, and then the pulse would be of the ordinary bigeminal type; it is more probable that an early systole occurs during the long pause). SO late that the diastolic period following it is shorter than that of the full contraction preced- ing it (Fig. 81). The Cause of the Bigeminal Pulse.—It is very difficult to say why the ventricle in these cases