PNEUMONIA—CLINICAL SECTION 175 mucosa and submucosa of the pharynx, soft palate, and nasal cavities, the conjunctiva, kidneys, etc., in which case the affected struc- ture can be shown to contain micrococci." Such is complicated pneumonia—a condition which prolongs the fever movement, increases the risk to life, and may entirely upset the cyclic course of the disease. In a paper on "Atypical Forms of Pneumonia," Dr. E. Palier describes a case of what he calls " Gastric Pneumonia," in which the symptoms closely resembled those of appendicitis. Abdom- inal section was performed by a consulting surgeon under the belief that disease of the ap- pendix would be found. This, however, proved to be an error, and a post-mortem examina- tion disclosed pneumonia associ- ated with an empyema. Palier believes that abdominal symp- toms in these cases of " gastric pneumonia " are to be ascribed to disturbance of the pneumo- gastric centre through the altered respiratory interchange. The abdominal pain is, in his opinion, analogous to the pain felt in the knee in hip-joint disease. In March 1901, when epi- demic pneumonia was rife in and near Dublin, the writer was called to see in consulta- tion an anaemic girl, who for a week previously had been suf- fering from symptoms of acute gastritis, vomiting, pain and tenderness in the left hypo- chondrium, and diarrhoea. At first her tongue had been thickly coated with a loose white fur, but at the time of the consul- tation this had been shed and the tongue was red and raw. A few hours before the patient had got out of bed, when a sudden faintness came on. This was followed by a rigor, and her temperature rose rapidly to 105-2° with a small thready pulse of 140. Physical ex- amination revealed dulness over the base of the left lung, subcrepitus and tubular breath- ing intermixed, bronchophony, and, in front, some pleural friction. In three days she was dead, the fatal issue being brought about by exhaustion induced by incessant vomiting, tachy- cardia, and extreme feebleness of the heart's action. In this case one had to choose between an acute pneumonia with such severe gastric symptoms as to mask that disease in its early stages, or a perforating gastric ulcer leading to a left basic pleuropneumonia. Unfortunately a post-mortem examination could not be ob- tained, but in favour of the latter diagnosis were the patient's age and sex, her anaemic state, and history of indigestion, and the sudden supervention of urgent gastric symptoms prior to the pneumonic rise of temperature and the development of the physical signs of an acute pleuropneumonia. Had this patient been a child, a diagnosis of the "gastric pneumonia" described in 1880 by Adolf Baginsky, of Tiibingen, might well have been made. In this form gastro-intestinal DAY OF OlSeASE 5 U T «3 lo »3 Fo 106' 105" lor 103" 102° lor WO' 99" 98" 97" 96' M E M E M E ME M E M :E M E M :E M E M E M E A f A :^ y « M Pulse E \08 <?>« \^ > 112 lOO %« H« ^9. 3b 30 9U MM ftb an 3M > —■ MOTIOHS o 1 . ■ O . o o O . ^ . . z o O Chart 5.—Protracted crisis in acute pneumonia. symptoms play a prominent part, while lung symptoms and signs do not obtrude themselves until just before crisis. Such cases may begin with vomiting, and diarrhoea is a conspicuous symptom. At the extremes of life also acute pneumonia shows striking atypical peculiarities which call for notice. Pneumonia in Childhood.—Apart from the fact that in very young children the exudation into the air vesicles is catarrhal rather than fibrinous, or croupous, in a large majority of cases, the clinical features of the disease are also often atypical. Gerhard, of Philadelphia,