394 PULSE, THE Gauge.—Dr. Oliver's hsemodynamometer, or blood-pressure gauge (Fig. 8), consists of two main parts—(1) the pad; and (2) the recorder. The pad is made of thin rubber, and is filled with water contain- ing a little glycer- ine. It is placed over the radial artery and trans- mits the pulsations of the vessel to the recording appar- atus. The principle followed is to equi- librate the fluid pressure within the pad to that within the artery, so that when that point is reached, the two pressures being ex- actly balanced, as it were, and the pad then being but a diverticulum of the artery, the maximum motion of the pulse-wave is developed. In principle it is identical with the sphygmometer of Hill and Barnard, but it is a more convenient form for clinical use. We have tested both these instruments to- gether on a series of patients in order to ascertain how the readings would compare in estimating a blood pressure. With Dr. Oliver's instrument a much higher mean arterial pressure was invariably indicated. We are therefore of opinion that there is still no ready and accurate means of estimating the ai'terial blood pressure in man. Dr. Oliver's observa- tions with his htemodynamometer are reliable, so far as the instrument determines, and in his hands supplies valuable information ; but what Fig. 8.—Oliver's Hsemodynamometer. artery (Fig. 9). Two conditions must be ob- served in order to make the reading as reliable as possible—(1) the wrist must always be extended at a uniform angle; and (2) the same FIG. 9.—The Arteriohieter (Oliver's). part of the artery must be observed on all occasions. We have a high opinion of the value and scope of usefulness of this little instrument, have used it frequently, and have found it to indicate a diminution of the radial calibre when the finger judged the ai-tery to be con- tracted. Dr. Oliver has made very numerous observations on the calibration of the arteries in health and disease, and some of his results are extremely suggestive. The Interpretation of the Sphygmogram The Normal SyhygmograpJiic Tracing.—Fig. 10 will serve to show the various parts of a ■ I Fig. 10.—Normal sphygmographic tracing, a. The up-stroke; 6, the apex of tracing; c, the down-stroke, which may be of varying length; d, the so-called tidal or predicrotic wave; e, the dicrotic or aortic notch; /, the dicrotic wave ; g, the post-dicrotic wave; A, termination of down-stroke. E, the systolic portion of the pulse-curve—the "systolic wave." F, the diastolic portion of the pulse-curve. we wish to emphasise is that there is, as yet, no means available to the general practitioner of estimating the blood pressure clinically in a manner at all comparable to taking the temperature. The Arteriometer.—The other instrument devised by Dr. Oliver—the arteriometer—is used to measure the calibre of any superficial typical sphygmogram from the radial artery. Certain points may be noted : the up-stroke (a), the apex of the tracing (6), the beginning of the down-stroke (c), the tidal or predicrotic wave {d), the dicrotic or aortic notch (e), the dicrotic wave (/), and, lastly, the remainder of the down-stroke. At the point g there is some- times a second elevation similar to the dicrotic