PHYSOSTIGMATIS SEMINA 95 Calabar bean, Physostigma venenosum, a tree of West Africa, also known as the Ordeal bean. It contains two alkaloids, physostigmine or eserine, and calaharine, the former being the more important. Preparations—(1) Extractum Physostigmatis. Dose — \-\ gr. (2) Physostig- minse Sulphas. Eserine Sulphate. Very soluble in water and alcohol. Dose—^-^ gr. by the mouth; ^-^V E^- hypodermically. (3) Lamellae Physostigminse. Each contains y^g^ gr. of physostigminse sulphas. As the extract of physostigmine is somewhat uncertain in composition, and as it contains calaharine, which is in some respects antagonistic to physostigmine, it is advisable always to employ the sulphate of physostigmine when prescribing this drug. Whether given inter- nally or applied locally, physostigmine affects the eye in a manner antagonistic to that of atropine. It causes contraction of the pupil by stimulation of the circular muscular iibres of the iris, diminishes intraocular tension, and causes a temporary increase of the power of accommo- dation for near objects followed by a spasm of accommodation. It is used in the treatment of corneal ulcerations, and to diminish intraocular tension, as in glaucoma. It has also been em- ployed to prevent the prolapse of the iris after corneal wounds, and to diminish the entrance of light into the eye when photophobia is present. For these purposes the lamellte, or a solution in water of the strength of ^ to 2 grains to the ounce, may be used. Atropine is more powerful as a mydriatic than eserine as a myotic, and there- fore if given to counteract the effect of atropine, physostigmine must be prescribed in somewhat strong solution. On account of its stimulating- effect on uustriped muscle, physostigmine is used for atony of the bladder, for chronic constipation, and for bronchitis with emphysema. It is rarely employed for constipation, but in some cases it succeeds when all the drugs have proved in- efficient. Unlike cascara, it affects the whole length of the intestinal canal, and, in addition to stimulating the muscular coat, causes an increased flow of secretion. Lastly, because of its inhibitory action on reflex activity and de- pression of the anterior corneal cells, physo- stigmine has been recommended in the treat- ment of tetanus and other convulsive diseases, but only moderate success has followed its administration for this purpose. Physostig^mina and Physostig^- mine. See Physostigmatis Semina. Phytin.—The name given to a substance, said to be an organic phosphorus compound, isolated from the seed of plants (Gr. (jivrov, a plant), and having the formula CgHsPjOg; it is recommended in rickets, osteomalacia, neuras- thenia, and wasting diseases, as well as in lactation and convalescence. See also Phos- phorus. PhytO-.—In compound words phyto- (Gr. KfivTov, a plant) means related to a plant; e.g. 2:)hytalbumin (vegetable albumin), phytohiology (the biology of plants), phytopathology (the diseases of plants or the diseases due to vege- table organisms), p>hytoteratology (vegetable tera- tology), and phytozoon (a plant-like animal or zoophyte). PhytOSterin.—A neutral substance obtained from Calabar beans; it is homologous with cholesterin. Pia or Pia Mater.—The thin, vascular membrane which immediately envelops the brain and spinal cord; the innermost of the three meninges. See Brain, Physiology of ; Meninges of the Cerebrum {Anatomy., Tumours, etc.). Pia Arachnoid.—The two meninges (pia and arachnoid) considered as one mem- brane ; inflammation affecting both these mem- branes is called pia-arachnitis or piarachnitis, or leptomeningitis. See Insanity, Pathology of {Pia Arachnoid); Meninges of the Cerebrum {Infiammations, Leptomeningitis). Piano-player's Cramp. .See Neur- oses, Occupation (Pianoforte Players). Piarrhsemia. — The presence of fat (Gr. TTiap, fat) in the blood. Piazza's Fluid.—A fluid containing chloride of sodium and chloride of iron ; it is used for coagulating blood. Pica, or Dirt-Eating^. .See also Appetite {Perversion).—Pica (jyica, a magpie), dirt-eating, or "perversion of the appetite" are names applied to the habit of eating or putting into the mouth various indigestible or disgusting substances. The habit is most frequently noted in hysterical or pregnant women, the insane, imbeciles, and abnormal children. In some countries dirt-eating is not confined to the above-mentioned classes, as in the Southern States of North America, Africa, and the West Indies, both children and adults are addicted to eating the clay found on the banks of rivers. The same habit is noted in some of the lower animals, as dogs when suffering from worms, and pregnant bitches will eat any filth or garbage. The capricious appetite of pregnant women is well known, and women who are perfectly normal in their ways at other times will, when pregnant, crunch cinders or dirt between their teeth. The dirt-eating tendencies of the insane are commonly enough experienced in asylums, and in not a few instances death has resulted from swallowing knives, hair, or stones. Some idiot children will apparently derive pleasure in crawling about the floor and licking the blacking