285 PREGXAXCY, PATHOLOGY OF—H^MOPvRHAGE unilateral. Inflammatory disease of the tubes is almost always bilateral. (c) The sac of a pregnancy pulsates, and occasionally contractions of its walls may be felt (Kelly). (5) The Nature and Duration of the Dis- charge.—Slight hsemorrhagic discharge is not indicative of anything definite. It occurs in all forms of abortion, in extra-uterine pregnancy, and in myxoma chorii. Profuse haemorrhage is conclusive evidence of some form of abortion, most probably threatened or incomplete. A profuse, watery, blood-stained discharge points strongly to myxoma chorii. If small cysts are found in it, it is pathognomonic of that con- dition. More or less profuse dark-coloured discharge shows that the ovum is dead, and that part or all of it is still retained in the uterus. Putrid discharge shows that the ovum is not only dead, but that decomposition has occurred. If the discharge quickly lessens, and after a few days disappears altogether, it may usually be taken to show either that the threatened expulsion of the ovum has passed off, or that the uterus has emptied itself, that is, that complete abortion has occurred. (6) The Nature of any Solid Matter vjhich may have been expelled from the Uterus.—It cannot be too strongly insisted upon, that, in the case of a patient who is bleeding, all matter which is expelled from the uterus must be most carefully examined. It is by so doing that, in the majority of cases, we obtain the necessary information to enable a diagnosis to be made. The expelled matter, if we can obtain it all, gives absolute information as to what has happened in the uterus, while the information obtained in other ways is generally more or less problematical. If an entire ovum is expelled, it is self-evident that complete abortion has taken place ; or if only a portion, that the abortion is incomplete. In order to be absolutely certain that the case is one of abortion, either chorionic villi or some fragment of a foetus must be found. A mere mass of decidua does not enable us at first sight to say whether the case is one of intra- or extra-uterine pregnancy; a microscopical examination of it will be necessary. Dakin states that the true decidua of an intra-uterine pregnancy is indis- tinguishable from the false decidua of extra- uterine pregnancy. However, in the former case some fragment of chorion or amnion will be found by the aid of the microscope, and this of course is pathognomonic. If intra-uterine pregnancy is excluded, the expulsion of a decidual cast of the uterus in the presence of a growing pelvic tumour is diagnostic of an extra-uterine pregnancy (Routh). As has been mentioned above, the presence of cysts in the discharge is pathognomonic of myxoma chorii. (7) The Condition of the Cervix.—The con- dition of the cervix is of use, not only in determining whether the patient is pregnant or not, but also in distinguishing between the different forms of abortion. In a threatened abortion the cer\ucal canal usually becomes slightly patulous. If the ovum has been de- tached and is in process of expulsion, it is forced against the inner os, which accordingly dilates, the external os still remaining closed. The cervix as a result becomes conical in shape, the base of the cone corresponding with the inner os, the apex with the external os {v. Fig. 1); in other words, the circumference of the cervix at the cervico-vaginal junction is increased. If the external os will not dilate to allow the ovimi to pass through, the latter is gradually expelled into the cervical canal, FIG. 1.—Diagram representing the shape of the cervix during, and subsequent to, the expulsion of the ovum. which dilates to a sufficiently large size to receive it. The inner os may then partially contract again, and the ovum become incar- cerated in the ballooned-out cervical canal. Thus the condition known as cervical abortion arises. If, however, the external os dilates in the usual manner and the ovum is expelled, the inner os closes again completely, while the external os remains dilated for some days. The cervix thus acquires a trumpet-shape, the mouth of the trumpet corresponding to the external os (Fig. 1). If the ovum has been completely expelled, the cei'vix gradually re- gains its normal shape; if, on the contrary, a part of the ovum is retained, complete closure of the canal rarely occurs. (8) The Symptonis of the Patient.—The three chief symptoms of the patient in either abortion or extra-uterine pregnancy are hsemorrhage, pain, and collapse. In abortion, the three have usually a due relationship to one another. The degree of collapse is in proportion to the amount of haemorrhage and pain which is occurring. The amount of pain is, however, by no means constant. In the case of a ruptured extra-uterine pregnancy, on the other hand, the first point which may strike us with regard to the case, is that the collapse is altogether out of proportion to the amount of haemorrhage which is apparently occurring. The accompanying pain is also greater than in abortion. Such a condition should always very forcibly suggest the possibility of internal