PLAGUE 112 to the infectivity of ill - ventilated dwellings. In reference to infected premises, Chalmers has stated : " Except for the accidents of ex- posure to gross and probably prolonged con- tagion, it is necessary to live the life of the inhabitant in order to incur his perils. And peril exists wherever the surroundings are of a character so grossly insanitary as will afford the bacillus a suitable soil for saprophytic growth." The influence of insanitary surroundings is also important in this connection, but is referred to in the succeeding section. (8) Insanitary Conditions.—These must be considered as being intimately connected with plague infection for several reasons. In the first place, those living under such conditions have a weakened resistance towards infectious disease in general, and under certain conditions may become directly infected by living in an infected atmosphere vitiated by uncleanliness, insufhciency of ventilation, and overcrowding. This view has been held by Sir T. R. Eraser, the President of the Indian Plague Commission, who regards overcrowding as chiefly operating in adding to the air pollution, and that people living under such influences become predisposed to attack. He holds that the virulence of the plague organism becomes exalted by increase in moisture and COg in the atmosphere, and elevation in temperature, diminution of oxygen, and deficiency of light. The majority of the Plague Commission were unable to accept the view that insanitation had any special influence on plague infection. In the second place, insanitary conditions are almost always associ- ated with the prevalence of rats, and in a rat-borne epidemic these are the places which are naturally the first to become plague in- fected. It is necessary, therefore, to regard insani- tation always as a predisposing factor, and sometimes as directly connected with the spread of plague infection. (9) The Influence of Season and Temperature. ■—-Season appears to have some influence on the epidemicity of plague, but an epidemic of this disease may occur under any climatic condition. The first Bombay epidemic (1896) attained its maximum at the coolest period of the year, in December; the second reached its highest point as the weather was getting warmer, in Eebruary ; in the third epidemic it was deferred till the month of March. It is noteworthy that the height of the epidemic has been reached in Bombay city in the month of March in the years 1898, 1899, 1900, and 1901. In all the Bombay city epidemics, the maximum has been reached in the early months of the year, the disease dying down in the hot weather, in May to July. Outbreaks in Calcutta and Kurachi occurred during the hottest season of the year, in Poena during the monsoon, and in the Southern Mahratta country at the close of the monsoon, while winter was coming on. The Cape Town epidemic of 1901 occurred towards the latter part of the hotter weather and during part of the cold weather, when it subsided. A study of the scattered endemic centres of plague shows that the disease can remain endemic in the cold winters of Siberia as well as in the tropical heat of Central Africa. C. The Spread of Plague from Place TO Place (a) By Land ; (6) By Sea. (a) By Land.—Plague may be conveyed to an uninfected locality by infected persons, infected rats, infected clothes, and possibly by infected goods. Infected rats probably ti'avel but short dis- tances on foot, and spread the infection to neighbouring villages, or to uninfected parts of an infected town. They also travel concealed in bales of goods, and may thus proceed by train long distances. It is probable that though they may die on the journey, the infected carcase may act for a time as a centre of infection to rats or man at its destination, and by handling the polluted goods an outbreak in man may be set up. A case of this nature occurred in Port Elizabeth, where a European had occasion to unpack a bale of goods at his warehouse after it had come from the docks, where many plague rats had been found. A rat, afterwards proved to have died from plague, was found among the goods, and four days after the man was attacked by plague. The only source of infection at all probable was the handling of these infected goods. Had this bale gone up country it is possible it might have furnished the first indigenous case at its desti- nation. It sometimes happens that the first cases in a locality appear associated with the railway goods stores in an uninfected place, as at Bangalore, where the early cases in the city were all associated with employes and their families engaged in the goods stores of the Southern Mahratta Railway. The passenger staif and railway passengers were not attacked till later. During the time railway inspection was strictly carried out in all parts of India, a large number of plague cases were detected, in all stages of the disease, from those in the stage of invasion to the moribund and even the dead. I have found them concealed beneath the carriage seat. The importation of a pneimionic case into the confined atmosphere of an Indian home might readily set up an epidemic in an uninfected place. The Indian Plague Commission were of opinion that plague was carried through India froni place to place by human agency. According to some the importation of a single case may set up an epidemic among rats in that place, and through them an outbreak among man is started. There is evidence that this does occur some-