PULSE, THE 421 of Phy&iology^ vol. ii. p. 105) would seem to indicate that the distended venae comites are capable of lifting the pad of the sphygmograph through a greater distance, and therefore with a force greater than that exerted by the systole Fig. 96.- of inspiration is, even liere, slightly diminished in amplitude. The next tracing, Fig. 97, shows the effects of a series of fairly deep breaths. Now, there is a distinct diminution of eacli pulse-curve at the height of inspira- tion. The pen which records the respira- tory curve starts a short distance be- hind that which re- pulse and respiration of a eat under deep ether an?esthesia. gisters the pulse, SO this must be allowed for in the timing of the two events. Fig. 98 shows the effect of taking three fairly deep respirations. The line of the tracing is slightly raised during inspiration. Fig. 99 shows the effect of taking a long of the left ventricle. It is surely seldom, if ever, that venous pressure can attain this power. Results of Pulse- and Respiration-Ohservatloyis on Animals.—The writer has, with the able assistance of Dr. Noel Paton, made some pulse- and respiration-observations on animals, in order to con- trol certain results obtained during laboured breathing in children. The cat was the animal employed. Un- der ether anaesthesia one of the carotid arteries was fully exposed, and a portion of the artery, separated from the vein, was sup- ported by a piece of wood which was held by a clip attached to a heavily weighted stand. The artery thus lay upon a perfectly rigid bed. A Dudgeon's sphygmograph, with a clinical poly- FlG. ! Fig. 97.—Pulse and respiration (cat). Shows the diminution of the pnlse-waves at the height of inspiration (fairly deep respiration). Pulse and respiration (cat). The line of the tracing is raised during inspiration (respiration is deep). inspiration and then holding the breath. Again a slight raising of the line of the tracing occurs, but it is shortly followed by the usual result, namely, the diminished size of the curves. A sufficiently deep breath will practically abolish the pulse-wave, and thus produce an ex- treme degree of the so-called pulsus para- doxus. Another tracing is appended. Fig. 100, which shows the graph attached to record the respiratory curve, was held firmly in a suitable apparatus in such a way that it could be made to rest accurately upon the artery. The trachea was opened and a cannula inserted, through which the animal breathed. The object of these experiments was to ascertain whether the dimin- ution of the pulse- wave, occurring so commonly in child- ren during slightly exaggerated or ob- structed breathing, could be obtained when the pad of the sphygmograph rested upon the artery alone. The first tracing. Fig. 96, shows the pulse- curves along with normal respiration under deep anaesthesia. The animal was breathing fairly deeply, and each pulse-wave at the height raising of the level of the pulse-tracing produced by inspiration when the animal was dying. The india- rubber bag which transmitted the respiratory movements to the tambour of the clinical polygraph was fixed to the thorax of the Fig. 99.—Pulse and respiration (cat). The effect of a long inspiration with breath held is to raise the level of the tracing and diminish the amplitude of the pulse-curves. animal in such a way that it lay over the cardiac area, and therefore received the pul- sations of the ventricle. The animal was at this time only making an occasional sighing respiration. Therefore the record of heart^beats in the tracing is only broken twice by a res- piration. Each time, however, when this occurs