PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—HAEMORRHAGE 285 the placenta is prsevia being a chance ac- companiment. It is not very easy to explain why a placenta prsevia should be detached any more readily than a normally situated placenta before the lower uterine segment has com- menced to form, i.e. before the ninth month. The causes of the detachment of a normally situated placenta are to be found in some diseased condition of itself or of the decidua serotina. Accordingly, the following may be stated to be the causes of placental detach- ment :— {a) Endometritis, by causing an unhealthy condition of the decidua. (6) White infarction of the placenta due to Bright's disease. (c) Syphilis, by affecting either the placenta or decidua. And perhaps (d) Insertion of the whole or part of the placenta in the lower uterine segment. Symptoms.—The essential symptom of the case is the occurrence of haemorrhage, jDcrhaps accompanied by the death of the foetus. In the latter case, decomposition may result, if the membranes are ruptiired; or, on the other hand, if they remain intact, the foetus may merely macerate or mummify aseptically. In the large majority of cases, the haemorrhage is external, i.e. it escapes from the uterine cavity as rapidly as it finds its way into the latter from the blood-vessels. In a smaller proportion of cases, on the other hand, it may remain stored in the uterus, which gradually increases in size to suit the demands of the accumulating blood. If the area of placental detachment is so great as to leave an insufficient amount of surface in contact with the uterus to provide the necessary nutrition and oxygen for the foetus, the latter dies. In most cases, this event will determine the onset of labour, but in some cases a con- dition analogous to missed abortion results, and the ovum is retained in utero. On the other hand, if there is still a sufficient area of placenta intact to keep the foetus alive, the latter con- tinues to grow. The condition of the uterus will depend on the foregoing. If the foetus lives and the haemorrhage is external, the uterus will continue to increase in size in pro- portion to the advance of pregnancy. If the foetus dies, the haemorrhage being still external, the uterus will diminish in size as the liquor amnii is absorbed, and there will be in addition the symptoms due to the retention of a dead foetus. The breasts become flaccid, and any secretion which may have appeared in them disappears. At the same time, the subjective symptoms of pregnancy lessen, and the patient suffers to a varying degree from the absorption of ptomaines from the dead foetus. If the haemorrhage is internal and the foetus dead, the patient suffers in the same manner from the retention of the foetus, but the uterus increases in size. In such cases there will be great difficulty in feeling the foetal parts; and the uterus, which ordinarily in haemorrhage is softer than usual, will, if the bleeding is ex- cessive, become extremely tense and hard. Finally, if the membranes have ruptured and saprophytic germs have found their way into the cavity, the foetus will decompose and a foetid discharge result. Accordingly, we may sum up the symptoms as follows :—A varying amount of haemorrhage,, either external or internal. A gradual increase in the size of the uterus, if the foetus lives and the haemorrhage is external. A diminution in size, if the foetus dies and the bleeding is external. A more or less marked and sudden increase, if the hsemorrhage is internal. A putrid discharge, if the foetus decomposes. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of external haemor- rhage is obvious. The diagnosis of internal haemorrhage is made by noting the increase in size of the uterus—an increase which enlarges the uterus out of proportion to the period of pregnancy—by the difficulty in feeling the foetal parts, and by the general condition of the patient. Internal haemorrhage at this stage of pregnancy is most likely to be confused with myxoma chorii, but here a mistake in diagnosis is not of any great importance, as in either case the uterus must be emptied. The nature of the discharge will in most cases enable a dis- tinction to be made, as in haemorrhage it is grumous and contains clots; in myxoma chorii it is thin and watery, while, if myxomatous cysts are found, the nature of the case is at once apparent. Treatment.—Our treatment of these cases is palliative or active, according to their nature. If the haemorrhage is slight, and there is no evidence that the foetus is dead, every effort must be made to check the bleeding by any means short of emptying the uterus. The main factor in attaining this end is absolute rest in bed for at least ten days or a fortnight after haemorrhage has ceased. There are certain drugs which, according to some authorities, can produce a tonic effect upon the uterus or its blood-vessels sufficient to check slight haemorrhage. Of these, the chief are ergot and strychnine administered in conjunction. Att- hill recommends the continued administration of a mixture containing 15 minims of Ext. Ergot. Liq. and -5 minims of Liq. Strychninae. Hydrastis Canadensis has also its advocates. The objections which are so constantly urged against ergot do not hold good in the case of the last-mentioned drug. Ergot produces its effect by causing a tonic contraction of the uterine muscle fibres, and in all probability only produces such effect when the contractions have ah'eady started of their own accord. Accordingly, in the case of a patient who is bleeding, but who is not in labour, ergot will probably produce little or no effect; while, if