PYURIA 452 affected organ, but to make sure that one kidney is free from disease is a point of import- ance. The first time he succeeded in doing this was in 1886, when a case was examined in which it was clearly shown that the tuber- culous lesion was limited to one kidney. Quadrant.—The fourth part of a circle or of any area resembling a circle ; e.g. the brim of the pelvis, in which the space between two of the points of Capuron is a quadrant. Quadrate or Quad rat us.—Four- sided ; e.g. the quadrate lobe of the liver, the quadrate bone, the quadratus femoris muscle, the quadratus lumborum muscle, etc. Quadri-.—In compound words quadri- (Lat. quatuor, four) means four times; e.g. quadricorTiate, quadridigitate, etc. Quadriceps.—Having four heads; e.g. the large extensor muscle of the thigh {quadri- ceps extensor cruris), which includes the rectus femoris, the vastus externus and internus, and the crureus. Quadrigfeminal.—in two pairs, or fourfold ; e.g. the corpora quadrigemina of the brain, the quadrigeminal pulse, etc. See Pulse (Fig. 74). Quadri urates. See Physiology, Ex- cretion {Urine, Nitrogenous Substances, Uric Acid); Uric Acid {Chemical Characters). Quadruplets.—Four at a birth. See Pregnancy, Multiple {Varieties). Quain's Degeneration.—Fatty de generation of the cardiac muscle ; Quain's fatty heart. Quarantine. See also Disinfection {Quarantine).—The word is derived from the forty days which formerly was the period during which persons were detained when coming from an infected country. The system was originally introduced with the idea of protecting a country from the danger of importation of disease, a danger which is practically in direct proportion to the extent of its trade. Regulations for this purpose are sanctioned in principle by international law, which, recognising the necessity for the constant interchange of goods and commodities between various states, allows each one to protect itself in any way it may deem fit or expedient. Thus, whatever restrictions any one state may adopt, these must be submitted to by all others, as the only conditions under which trade with such state is possible. Hence the extreme importance of the subject from a commercial point of view. The history of quarantine in this country is that of a long and fierce struggle between the two great interests of free-trade intercourse and the neces- sity of guarding against the risk of introducing disease arising from such intercourse. The earliest mention of any system of defence against infectious disease is found in the mar- vellous and complete sanitary code promulgated by the ancient Jewish lawgiver Moses under divine guidance. In early days the period of detention con- sidered necessary for safety was a purely arbi- trary one, but as medical science developed an attempt was made to limit its duration to some extent in proportion to the length of the in- cubation period of the disease against which it was directed. The essential point of quarantine from its earliest inception up to its modern development was to estimate the danger (and, therefore, the precautions to be taken) according to the state of health of the port from which a vessel had arrived, without any reference to the condition of the vessel and its inhabitants as regards health and sickness. The earliest definite codes of quarantine di- rected against plague were issued by the Eastern emperors during the sixth century, while probably the most elaborate system of marine quarantine was established by the Venetians in the twelfth century, when they obtained sanction from the Pope to trade with the infidels of Alexandria and Aleppo. According to this code, all mer- chants and others coming from the Levant were compelled to remain in the house of St. Lazarus for forty days before entering the city. In this country the first mention of marine quarantine was in 1636, when the Royal College of Physicians, in " Directions " issued by them, enacted that " care be taken that neither man nor goods may come from any suspected places without a certificate of health, or else either to be sent suddenly away or to be put to the pest- house for forty days according to the custom of Italy." The first Quarantine Act in England was passed in the ninth year of Queen Anne. Up to that time all quarantine regulations had been issued by Orders in Council without the inter- vention of Parliament. But the quarantine regulations were never constant, and from their uncertainty and the increasing changes in con- nection with their enforcement, continually became more and more burdensome to trade. A report of a select committee on the foreign trade of the country in 1824 mentions that the quarantine charges in the case of a vessel with a clean bill of health amounted to 7s. 6d. per ton, and in the case of a foul bill to 15s. per ton. Is. extra being paid in London. These charges, moreover, were levied on the gross tonnage of the vessel whether she carried a full cargo or no, one instance being given in which they exceeded 90 per cent of the value of the