PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 87 of nitrogen—are excreted. On a normal diet from 86 to 90 per cent of the waste nitrogen is excreted as urea; but, when the protein intake is decreased, carbohydrates and fats being substituted, the proportion of urea-nitrogen may fall to as low as 60 per cent. When the urine is allowed to stand, certain micro-organisms are apt to get into it, and to cause a hydration of the urea, whereby it is changed into ammonium carbonate— 0 ""l ? f'' H. II /H H[ C-O-n]^ \n_c-n<( h —^—^—^—^ i jj hJ [h The urine is thus made alkaline, and the phosphates of the earths are precipitated. The magnesium phosphate combines with the ammonia to form ammonio-magnesium- phosphate, NH^MgPO^ + 6H2O, which crystal- lises in characteristic prism-like crystals. B. Non-Urea Nitrogen.—The 10 or 12 per cent of nitrogen which, on an ordinary diet, is not excreted as urea is distributed in :— 1. Ammonium Salts.—About 4 or 5 per cent of the total nitrogen is normally excreted as ammonium salts. But under certain conditions the proportion is greatly increased. Anything which causes an increased breaking down of protein and an increased formation of acids leads to an increased excretion of ammonia— the ammonia being formed from the proteins to neutralise the acids. 2. Diureides.—The members of this series of bodies consist of two unmodified or modified urea molecules, linked together by an acid nucleus. The most important have as the linking molecule an oxi-acid with three carbons in series, and they constitute the purin bodies. 0 II H—N—C I I 0 = C C—N—H I II >c = o H—N—C—N^ H In birds and reptiles they largely replace urea as the substances in which nitrogen is chiefly eliminated. In these animals they are formed in the liver from the various products of the decomposition of protein molecules, but in mammals they appear to be very largely derived from the decomposition of nucleic acid. Even when all supplies from without of nucleins and purin bodies are cut off, a certain amount of these purin bodies is daily eliminated. These have been called the " endogenous " purins, while those derived from the constituents of the food are termed the " exogenous" purins. A certain amount of the purins formed are changed to urea before being excreted, and therefore, when disturbances of the chemical processes in the liver occur, the purins may be increased at the expense of the urea. Uric acid is the most important member of the series. Its constitution is shown above. It is an exceedingly insoluble substance which tends to crystallise in large irregular crystals, and in the urine these are generally coloured brown by the urinary pigment. It occurs as salts of sodium and potassium, and, according to Roberts, the acid salt NaHU is linked to a molecule of the acid to form NaHU-HjU, or what he calls a quadriurate. The evidence of this is not conclusive. Although the salts of uric acid are more soluble than the free acid, only a small quantity can be dissolved in the urine. Apparently inorganic salts, such as sodium phosphate, act as solvents. When the urine cools, especially if it is unusually acid, the urates tend to separate out and fall as a brick-red deposit, which generally shows no crystalline structure under the microscope. If the urine has become ammoniacal on standing, the deposit frequently contains characteristic spinous pigmented crystals of ammonium urate. From their insolubility, uric acid and the urates tend to form calculi or concretions in the urinary passages. The presence of uric acid in such concretions is recognised by the murexide test, which depends upon the fact that uric acid heated with nitric acid is oxidised to alloxantin, which strikes a purple colour with ammonia, yielding murexide—the ammonium salt of purpuric acid. Other members of the series, such as xanthin and hypoxanthin, occur in the urine in small quantities. Allantoin, which occurs in the urine of the foetus and in the urine of dogs after the administration of nucleic acid, is a diureide in which glyoxylic acid with two carbon atoms is the linking band. 3. Creatinin. — Creatinin is formed from creatin (vol. vii. p. 503) by dehydration. The amount excreted is always small, and probably depends upon the amount of muscular tissue broken down in the body. According to the investigations of Folin the amount excreted per diem on a flesh-free diet is very constant in each individual, and does not vary with the amount of protein food taken. Creatin may also appear in the urine in small amounts. 4. Hippuric Acid.—This is benz-amino-acetic acid—