48 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES one end, and this bulb is made a vacuum. The end of the tube near the bulb is put in the mouth and the person under observation breathes through it. At the end of an ordinary inspiration he expires deeply and quickly through the tube, and by opening the upper Mouthpiece Sa.mpling Tube Fig. 153.—Haldane's apparatus for determining the composition of alveolar air. stop-cock collects a sample of the expired air. A second sample is taken in the same way at the end of a normal expiration. The mean of these samples represents the average composi- tion of the alveolar air. By the use of this method it has been found that the partial pressure of the 0 varies within wide limits, while the partial pressure of the COg remains very constant. Thus at the top of Ben Nevis the pressure of oxygen was 76 mm. Hg; at the bottom of a mine it was 111 ; while in both places the pressure of carbon dioxide was about 42 mm. In spite of these wide variations in the oxygen pressure in alveolar air the tension of oxygen in the blood remains about the same. The difference in the pressure of these gases in the alveolar air, and in the blood going to and coming from the lungs, may be represented as follows in mm. Hg :— Alveolar Air Oxygen 76 to 111 Blood 1/ 20 Venous 100-1- Arterial Carbon Dioxide 42 is not due entirely to diffusion^ hut is in pa7-t, at least, brought about by the activity of the cells lining the vessels and the alveoli. It should, however, be stated that, in spite of these figures, some physiologists maintain that simple diffusion will explain these inter- changes—\st, because, when the amount of oxygen in the atmosphere — i.e. when the partial pressure of 0—falls below a certain point, the gas is no longer taken up by the blood; and 2«c?, because, when the amount and pressure of CO2 rises, the CO, is not given off from the blood. The partial pressure of oxygen may be reduced to a half without interfering with the vital processes of the body, and for this reason it is possible for men and animals to live at high altitudes. When men are sud- denly subjected to a very marked decrease of pressure, especially if they have to do mus- cular work, as in climbing, the decreased supply of oxygen leads to shortness of breath, palpita- tion, and even to sickness (mountain sickness). These symptoms soon pass off, increased pul- monary ventilation and increased heart action increasing the intake of oxygen. Hence residence in high altitudes tends to increase the power of the respiratory muscles and the strength of the heart. It also increases the richness of the blood in erythrocytes and in haemoglobin. On the other hand, the atmospheric pressure may be enormously increased without any change in the metabolism. In a diving-bell 200 feet under water a pressure of 5120 mm. Hg—seven atmospheres—is sustained. As a result of the high pressure of the gases of the atmosphere they are dissolved in large quantities in the blood and tissues, and there is great danger in too sudden relief of pressure, since this may cause bubbles of gas to be given off in the vessels, and these may lead to air embolism and a plugging of the smaller vessels (Caisson disease). 46 Venous 0-40 Arterial This shows that when the blood reaches the lungs the distribution of pressure of the gases is such that, by the laws of diffusion, oxygen will pass fi'om the alveolar air into the blood and carbon dioxide from blood to air; but that, before the blood has left the lungs, the distribution is such that oxygen should, by the laws of diffusion, pass from blood to lungs and carbon dioxide from lungs to blood, which is exactly the reverse of what occurs. The passage of oxygen to the blood and the passage of carbon dioxide from the blood is, in fact, much greater than could be accounted for by diffusion. We must therefore conclude that the exchange of gases between the alveolar air and the blood B. Internal Respiration \st. The Passage of Oxygen from Blood to Tissues.—-In studying the physiology of muscle, which may be taken as a type of all the active tissues, it was seen that oxygen is constantly being built up into the muscle molecule, and that the living tissues have such an affinity for .[oxygen that they can split it off from such pigments as alizarin blue. The tension of oxygen in muscle is therefore always very low. We have seen that the tension of oxygen in arterial blood is nearly 100 mm. Hg ; therefore, when the blood is exposed to a low tension of oxygen in the tissues, the oxygen comes off from the blood and passes into the tissues by the ordinary laws of diffusion. But it must be remembered that this takes place in three stages :— (1) The tissue elements are always taking up