PLAGUE 125 treatment sufficiently early; possibly, also, the dosage has been sometimes insufficient, but 200 c.c. given subcutaneously have in some cases been found to be of benefit. More encouraging results have been obtained by the intravenous administration of 30 to 60 c.c. of the serum, and this may conveniently be injected into the veins on the dorsal aspect of the hand or the front of the wrist. If the serum be warmed the patient experiences little discomfort. Lustig's serum has been used in India both subcutaneously (in doses of 200 to 2000 c.c.) and intravenously. It had little effect in septicsemic cases, but appeared to be of some service in bubonic cases with multiple buboes. It cannot, however, be regarded as of much assistance in serious cases. Although the serum treatment of the disease appears to be the only one which holds out much prospect of reducing the case mortality in plague, it must be admitted that as yet the value of the pre- parations available has not been sufficiently established. 10. Curative and Preventive Sera and Prophylactics A number of sera and prophylactics have been prepared, and their use advocated by those who have discovered them. The value of some of them is based rather upon laboratory experiments than upon use on a large scale. (1) Yersin's serum has received trial as a prophylactic agent; 10 c.c. are administered subcutaneously into the skin of the abdominal wall, giving an immunity for ten to fourteen days. To obtain further immunity it is neces- sary to repeat the injection at the end of each period of ten or fourteen days. The use of this serum is only to be recommended as a prophylactic in cases where it is desirable to rapidly immunise a person who has been ex- posed to infection. In the great majority of cases, as will be seen, Haffkine's prophylactic should be employed. Reference has already been made to the curative use of Yersin's serum. Its mode of preparation is to inject living cultures of plague bacilli intravenously into a horse; the serum is obtained by bleeding the animal. (2) Lustig's sei-um is obtained from the blood of horses immunised by the injection of a nucleo-proteid, which is prepared by treating plague cultures with 1 per cent caustic potash ; after acidifying with dilute HCl the precipitate is filtered off, washed, and dried. The nucleo- proteid is stated to have prophylactic properties. The curative results of the serum have not been very promising in India. (3) Terni and Bandi's serum is obtained by immunising animals with a vaccine prepared by intraperitoneal injection of rabbits with plague bacilli; the peritoneal secretion is treated with "sea-salts" and heated for some hours at 60° C. I am not aware of the results of using this serum and vaccine on a large scale. (4) Haffkine's Prophylactic.—In the prepara- tion of his plague prophylactic Hafikine was led, from the results of his anti-cholera inocula- tion, " to treat the system with a combination of the actual bodies of the plague bacilli and of the concentrated products of their activity." Plague bacilli are cultivated in broth, from the surface of which they are susjjended as a stalactite growth from drops of clarified butter {ghee) or of cocoa-nut oil floating on its surface. The flasks containing the growth are periodically shaken, and the growth falls to the bottom, allowing a new crop of stalactites to grow from the surface. An increasing amount of toxine is also formed, secreted from the bacilli and accumulating in the broth. This process is continued for five or six weeks, when it is stopped, and the bacilli killed by exposing the flasks to 70'^ C. for one hour. The prophylactic is then ready for use after the dose for man has been determined. This has to be done by experiment for each brew of the prophylactic. The fluid is sealed up in vessels, after adding a small quantity of some antiseptic, and sent out for use. The usual dose is about 5 c.c. for an adult, and should be injected into the outer part of the upper arm. A few hours after inoculation, malaise, fever, and aching at the site of injection occur, followed by some prostration, together with redness and swelling of the upper ai-m. These symptoms usually last about twenty-four hours, when the person inoculated resumes his normal health, though the local inflammation and swelling may persist for some days. Sometimes the reaction is some- what more severe than has been indicated, and the patient may be some days before he recovers. Rarely abscesses occur, as with any other sub- cutaneous injection. The most convenient time for being inoculated is in the afternoon, say about 3 P.M.; about 8 p.m. constitutional symp- toms occur, the patient passes an uncomfortable and restless night, feels more or less ill next day, which should be spent at rest. On the following day he is well enough to resume his ordinary duties in the majority of cases. A lead and opium application may be of service where there is much local reaction. Immunity after inoculation, which is never absolute, is established in about ten days (though HafFkine and Bannerman put it at a much shorter period), and persists for a time which is not yet determined; it is at least six months, and probably longer. As the duration of an ordinary plague epidemic is not as a rule longer than this, the person inoculated has secured a large measure of immunity for that particular epidemic, though, if he wishes to continue protected, he must again undergo