4 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES of the blood, but appear when the activity of the bone-marrow is increased in certain patho- logical conditions. These various forms have certain properties— (a) Amoeboid movement. They can, under suit- able conditions, undergo certain changes in shape, as may be readily seen in the blood of the frog, or other cold-blooded animal. The motion may consist simply of the pushing out and withdrawal of one or more processes (pseu- dopodia), or, after a process is extended, the whole corpuscle may follow it and thus change its place, or the corpuscle may simply retract itself into a spherical mass. As a resiilt of these movements the corpuscles, in certain con- ditions, creep out of the blood-vessels and wander into the tissues {Diapedesis). (b) Phagocyte Action.—The finely granular leucocytes and the lymphocytes have further the power of taking foreign matter into their interior, and of thus digesting it. By this devouring action, useless and effete tissues are removed and dead micro-organisms in the body are taken up and got rid of. This scavenger action of the leucocytes is of vast importance in pathology. Chemistry of Leucocytes. — The nucleus is chiefly made up of nuclein, and in the proto- plasm a nucleo-protein, along with two globulins and a small amoiuit of an albumin, are found. Along with these protein si^bstances glycogen and a small amount of fat are present, while the chief inorganic constituents are potassium salts. 2. Blood Platelets.—These are small circular or oval discoid bodies, about one-third the diameter of a red blood corpuscle. Some ob- servers have stated that they contain a central nucleus. They are very sticky, and mass to- gether when blood is shed and adhere to a thread passed through blood or to any rough point in the lining of the heart or vessels. They there form clumps, and from these clumps fibrin threads are seen to shoot out. They thus appear to play an active part in clotting. They are present in the blood of mammals only. Their source is not definitely known, but it has been suggested that they are the extruded nuclei of developing erythrocytes. 3. Erythrocytes — Red Cells. — All mammals except the camels have circular, biconcave, dis- coid erytln-ocytes, which, when the blood is shed, tend to run together like piles of coins. The camels have elliptical biconvex corpuscles. A nucleus is not present in the fully-developed mammalian erythrocyte. In birds, reptiles, amphibia and fishes, the corpuscles are elliptical biconvex bodies, with a well-marked central nucleus. The size of the human erythrocytes is fairly constant—on an average 7'6 micro- millimetres in diameter. The number of red cells in health is about 5,000,000 in men and 4,500,000 in women, per cubic millimetre ; but in disease it is often decreased. The number of corpuscles per cubic millimetre is estimated by the Haemocytometer. This consists of (1) a pipette by which the blood may be diluted to a definite extent with normal salt solution; and (2) a cell of definite depth ruled in squares, each containing above it a definite small volume of blood so that the number of corpuscles in that volume may be counted under the microscope. The pale yellow colour of the individual corpuscles is due to a pigment held in a fine sponge-like stroma which seems to form a capsule round the cell. This pigment may be dissolved out by various agents, and the action is termed Hcemolysis. It may be brought about in different ways :—\st. By placing the erythro- cytes in a fluid of lower osmotic equivalent, i.e. of lower molecular concentration, than the blood plasma and corpuscles. A solution of 0'9 per cent of sodium chloride has the same osmotic equivalent as the plasma and preserves the corpuscles unaltered ; in more dilute fluid the corpuscles tend to swell up by endosmosis and the pigment is dissolved out. Erythrocytes may therefore be used as a means of deter- mining the osmotic equivalent—the molecular concentration of a fluid. 2nd. By the action of substances which dissolve some constitu- ent of the stroma, e.g. salts of the bile acids, chloroform, ether, etc. Zrd. By Haemolysins. The serum of one animal contains a substance, destroyed by heating to 55° C, which is hjemo- lytic to the blood of animals of other species ; e.g. the serum of eels' blood contains a powerful hsemolysin for rabbits' erythrocytes, and the serum of the dog a less powerful one. Further, by injecting the blood or the erythrocytes of one species of animal into another species, a hfemolysin is developed which has a specific action on the erythrocytes of the first species. Chemistry.—The stroma of the erythrocytes is made up of a globulin-like substance, in con- nection with which lecithin and cholesterin occur in considerable quantities. Potassium is the base most abundantly present. The pigment is hcemoglobin. It constitutes no less than 90 per cent of the solids of the corpuscles. In many animals, when dissolved from the corpuscles, it crystallises very readily. The crystals prepared from the human blood are rhombic plates. When exposed to air they are of a bright red colour, but if placed in the receiver of an air-piimp at the ordinarj^ tempera- ture they become of a purplish tint. The same thing occurs if the hajmoglobin is in solution, or if it is still in the corpuscles. The addition of any reducing agent, such as ammonium sulphide or a ferrous salt, also causes a similar change. This is due to the fact that htfinoglobin has an affinity for oxygen, which it takes up from the air, forming a definite compound of a bright red colour in which one molecule of hfemoglobin links with a molecule of oxygen, HbO.i, and is known as oxyhcemoglohln.