PSORIASIS 340 Unfortunately, one can never be sure before- hand in any particular case whether it will be of service, and even in the same patient it will succeed in one attack and fail in another. This leaves only a very limited number of cases in which it will be successful, but in the best cases for it, improvement is often very rapid. In the author's practice both arsenic and thyroid have been in great part superseded since he discovered the remarkable power of salicin and salicylates in removing the psoriasis eruption. As salicin is in most cases as efficacious as salicylate of soda, and less liable to upset digestion, it is the one to be chiefly used. It must be given in adequate doses. As a rule 15 grains three times a day in an ounce of water is the best dose to begin with, and as most people are very tolerant of it, the dose may be increased to 20 or even 30 grains, but its solubility is not more than 19 grains to the ounce, and it is better given in solution than in cachets or tabloids. In the large doses 4 minims of nux vomica tincture may be added to counteract any depression caused by the drug, but this is rarely seen. Salicin erythema eruptions are also rare, and in only a few does it disturb digestion or produce headache. It has the great advantage over arsenic and thyroid that it may be given with benefit in developing cases, and will often check the increase; and it disagrees in the above ways in so few cases that it is always worth trying, and while, of course, not always successful, it is so in a much wider range of cases than either of its rivals, with fewer draw- backs. It is more likely to produce speedy improvement in widespread hypersemic cases than where there are a few chronic patches; it has also not much effect on psoriasis of the scalp. In suitable cases, the hypersemia diminishes, the scaly crust becomes loose and then falls off, and gradually new scales cease to form, the patch clears up in the centre, the ring breaks up into fragments, which are best removed by local means. In the most favour- able cases, this may be seen in from a month to six weeks, even when no local treatment has been simultaneously employed, but, of course, the majority take much longer. Like all other drugs, it does not act as a prophylactic against future attacks. The action of salicin is, in the author's opinion, due to its breaking up in the organism into salicylic acid, and exercising a microbicide action in the blood or lymphatic circulation. Iodide of potassium in heroic doses has been strongly recommended by Greve, Boeck, Hasland, and others, and has undoubtedly good effect in some cases. Com- mencing with 10 gi-ains three times a day, in a week it may be increased to 15 grains, and when tolerance is established the dose may be rapidly increased; as much as 750 grains a day have been given. In the author's opinion better results may be obtained by other means with less injury to the patient, for iodides have often a very injurious effect upon the gastro- intestinal and other mucous membranes, and it is not a drug to be given indiscriminately, for unless the heart and kidneys are quite sound dangerous iodism might ensue. It is uncertain whether its good results are due to its diuretic action or to the liberation of nascent iodine in the circulation. Phosphorus, carbolic acid, antimony, and turpentine occupy quite a minor place compared to the previous drugs. The two latter are better than the first two, and are chiefly suitable for very hypersemic cases. From 5 to 10 minims of antimony wine three times a day is the usual dose, and from 10 to 15 minims of turpentine suspended in mucilage; copious diluents, a quart of barley water or more a day, being given to counteract the diminution of urinary water which otherwise ensues. In very widely spread eruptions with great congestion, often the best treatment is large doses of quinine, gr. iij. to gr. v. three times a day, given in the acid portion of an effervescing potash mixture, gr. 22 bicarbonate of potash to 15 grains of citric acid being the usual proportion. There are a few chronic cases which resist arsenic, thyroid, and salicin, even when com- bined with what is usually efficient local treat- ment. In these cases the intra-muscular in- jection of mercury is often most valuable. The author uses sozoiodolate of mercuiy dissolved with the aid of an equal weight of iodide of sodium ; ^ of a grain is injected into the buttock once or twice a week. Prault obtained good results in two cases by injecting yellow oxide of mercury "05 gramme. Mapother strongly advocates mercury salts internally for psoriasis. Local Treatment.—This is of the highest importance, and in a large proportion of cases is sufficient by itself to remove the eruption. The indications are to remove the scales, diminish the hypersemia, and then use a micro- bicide. In acute cases, when the first two indications are fulfilled, often nothing more is required. In chronic ones, when the scales have been removed, the microbicide treatment can be proceeded with at once. The means to remove the scales are alkaline baths, §iv. of bicarbonate of soda to a 30-gallon bath, at a temperature of 95° F., the patient remaining in twenty minutes and rubbing off the scales after soaking. The bath may be repeated twice or thrice a week. Wet packs may be employed instead, but require the patient to lie up. When there are only a few chronic patches, as on the knees or on the scalp, soft soap rubbed in with wetted flannel and then rinsed off is