PLEO- OR PLEIO- 132 mazia (having more than the normal number of breasts or of nipples). Pleomorphic.—Having more than one form, e.g. certain bacteria or fungi which have different forms at different ages. Pleonexia..—Selfishness, greed, or avarice as a symptom of insanity (Gr. irXeoviKTrj^, one who claims more than his share). PleonotuS.—The type of malformation in which an accessory auricle is found on the neck; cervical auricle. Plethora,.—A morbid state in which the body or a part of it is believed to be abnormally full of blood or of some other humour (Gr. 7r\7)9wpr], fulness); in modern usage it means an excess of red corpuscles in the blood, or polycythcemia. Plethysmograph. — An instrument for measuring changes in the volume of a part of the body caused by variations in the amount of blood contained therein, etc.; it was invented by Mosso of Turin about 1870. See Physi- ology, Circulation (Mean Blood Pressure, Plethy sinograph). Pleura, Diseases of. Anatomy of the Pleura Pathology and Bacteriology of Diseases OF the Pleura . Acute Pleurisy— (a) jEtiology . (b) Clinical History (c) Physical Signs . (d) Complications (e) Differential Diagnosis if) Prognosis . (g) Treatment . Pleurisy in Children . Varieties of Pleurisy . Empyema Hydrothorax hemothorax . Pneumothorax Malignant Disease 132 133 135 136 137 138 139 140 141 142 143 144 145 145 145 148 See also Aspirator, Uses of (Diagnostic and Therapeutic); Brain, Affections op Blood- vessels (Thrombosis, Simple, after Pleurisy); Bronchi, Bronchial Glands (Diagnosis); Bronchi, Bronchitis (Diagnosis, Pleurisy); Burns and Scalds (Clinical Features, Sequelae); Chest, Injuries op (Wounds of Pleura); Chest- Wall, Affections of (Pain, Pleurodynia); Diaphragm, Medical Affections; Diaphragm, Surgical Affections (Inflammatory); Fluids, Examination of Pathological (Pleural Fluid, Bacteriology) ; Heart, Myocardium and Endo- cardium (Symptomatology, Pulmonary Condi- tions) ; Herpes (Diagnosis); Hiccough (Eti- ology, Pleurisy); Hydatid Disease (Pulmonary Echinococci); Hysteria (Sensory Disorders, Hyperoesthesia); Liver, Diseases of (Cirrhosis, Diagnosis); Liver, Perihepatitis (Diagnosis); Liver, Tropical Abscess (Pain, Diagnosis); Liver, Hydatids of (Rupture into Pleural Cavity); Lung, Tuberculosis of (Precedent Illness, Pathological Anatomy); Mediastinum (Chronic Mediastinitis and Growths, Diagnosis); Nephritis (Clinical Feattires and Diagnosis); Ovaries, Diseases of (Tumours, Complications); Peritoneum, Peritonitis, Acute (Diagnosis); Peritoneum, Tuberculous Peritonitis (Compli- cations); Pneumonia, Clinical (Complications); Pregnancy, Affections and Complications (Pulmonary Disturbances, Pleurisy); Rheum- atism, Acute {Respiratory Affections); Rheum- atism IN Children (Symptoms, Pleurisy); Small- pox (Co7nplications); Spine, Surgical Affec- tions OF (Spinal Caries, Diagnosis); Syphilis (Secondary, Pleurisy); Tabes Dorsalis (Sensory Symptoms, Lightning Pains, Diagnosis); Tuber- culosis (Broncho-Pneumonic, Pleurisy); Typhoid Fever (Symptoms, Pleuro - typhoid, Complica- tions) ; Visceral Pain (Pleurisy). Anatomy.—The pleurte are two independent serous sacs which do not communicate with each other. Each sac consists of twD layers—a visceral layer and a parietal layer—the former of which completely invests the corresponding lung, including the sulci between the lobes, while the latter lines the ribs and intercostal spaces, in- vests the upper surface of the diaphragm, takes part in the formation of the mediastinum, and is continued through the upper aperture of the thorax into the neck. The two layers of the pleura move freely upon each other in health. In disease these movements are impeded or rendered painful. The two layers of the pleura are continuous with each other at the root of each lung, and also by means of the ligamentum latum pulmonis, a short double layer of serous membrane which occupies the interval between the root of the lung and the diaphragm. The shape of the pleurse is not the same on the two sides, being determined by that of the cor- responding lung. Inferiorly the lungs do not completely fill the thoracic cavity, except in exceptional cases of extreme inspiratory effort. Only the relations of the pleurae which are of clinical importance can be here considered. The height to which the pleurse rise in the neck shows considerable variations. From half an inch to an inch and a half above the clavicle may be taken to represent the usual limits of this variation. In front the pleurfe of the opposite sides are in contact behind the body of the sternum, but the line of reflection is not constant. It is usually behind either the body of the sternum or its left edge. Inferiorly the relations of the pleurje to the diaphragm are of great clinical importance. According to Quain, "the lower border of the costal pleura is re-