PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—HEMORRHAGE 298 which project into the vagina, and by careful cauterisation. Other tumours or pathological conditions, whose existence may give rise to slight haemor- rhage coming from the vagina or its neigbour- hood during pregnancy, are urethral caruncle, mucous polypi of the cervix, and haemorrhoids. HEMORRHAGE FROM TRAUMATISMS Traumatisms in the region of the vagina and vulva will cause a varying degree of haemorrhage, accoi'ding to the nature of the lesion. Their treatment is similarly infliienced. Considerably more interesting than the immediate effect of such injuries is the question of the result of a traumatism, either surgical or otherwise, upon the pregnancy. So far, the most varying consequences have been met with. In some women, a very severe accident or surgical operation has been attended by no bad effects upon the pregnancy. In other women, the slightest accident or interference has been followed by the immediate emptying of the uterus. Gueniot's conclusions on this subject are as follows :— (1) The harmlessness of traumatism in preg- nancy is not governed by any absolute law. (2) A traumatism, if the woman is without morbid predisposition—she, her uterus, and the ovum healthy—is generally without injurious effect upon the pregnancy. (3) If gestation is complicated by a patho- logical condition, such as abnormal irritability of the uterus, disease or gi'eat size of the ovum, albuminuria, etc., the traumatism, however slight, and whatever the part involved, most fre- quently causes premature expulsion of the ovum. (4) Great caution is necessary in performing surgical operations during pregnancy. Ribemont-Dessaignes considers that accidental traumata vary in their effects, according to their intensity, their site, the amount of htemorrhage which accompanies them, and the occurrence of wound complication, sepsis, etc. As regards surgical intervention Verneuil says: "Surgical intervention is not forbidden during pregnancy, but is under the guidance of a definite rule—to abstain from it when it is possible to do so; to intervene when it is necessary." Preha.llUX.—The hypothetical accessory digit on the foot, which is believed to have been suppressed during evolution. Premature Infants. See Couveuse ; Labour in Multiple Pregnancy {Infantile Risks, Pre^naturity); Labour, Faults in the Passenger {Hydramnios); Labour, Obstetric Operations {Induction of Premature Labour'); Pregnancy, Pathology {Intra-uterine Diseases). Premature Labour. See Labour, Obstetric Operations {Induction of Premature Lahow). Premaxilla.—The anterior fourth of the palatal process of the superior maxilla is known as the premaxilla; it is ossified from the in- cisive centre ; and it has been thought to consist of two parts (endognathion and mesognathion) carrying the central and the lateral incisor tooth respectively. Premenstrual.—Occurring before men- struation, e.g. premenstrual'pain. See Menstrua- tion AND its Disorders {Dysmenorrhcea, Cause of the Pain, Congestion). Premolar. See Teeth {Genesis of the Teeth, Permanent). Premonitory.—Forewarning or indi- cating beforehand, e.g. the premonitory signs of labour or of a disease. Prenatal.—Occurring before birth ; ante- natal. See Antenatal. Preparations.—in Anatomy prepara- tions are parts of the body so preserved as to be useful for teaching purposes ; in Pharmacy they are the forms in which drugs are compounded, e.g. standardised preparations (those containing a certain fixed proportion of the principle of the drug). Prepollex.—A suppressed digit supposed to have existed on the radial side of the thumb (pollex). See Prehallux. Prepotency.—The fact that in heredity and in respect to certain characters the j^aternal inheritance is often more potent or more capable of finding expression in the progeny than the maternal, or vice versa. See Heredity {Degrees of Hereditary Eesemblance). Prepuce. See Herpes {Herpes Genitalis); Circumcision ; Penis, Surgical Affections of' {Prejmtial Calculi); Phymosis and Cross References. Presbycusis. — Senile deafness (Gr. Trpeafivs, an old man ; olkovq, hearing). Presbyopia.—Senile defect of vision (Gr. wpta-fivs, an old man ; oji/^, the eye). See Accom- modation {Presbyopia) ; Headache {Diagnosis of the Cause, Age); Refraction {Presbyopia). Prescribing^, and Methods of Administering^ Drug;'s. General Principles .... 299 Weights and Measures .... 299 Types of Prescriptions .... 300 Dosage ....... 301 Toleration ...... 302 Cumulative Action .... 302 Correction of Flavour, Colour, Odour . 302.