PNEUMONIA—CLINICAL SECTION 165 part that is second to none in the production of influenza-pneumonia. Prof. Hermann Lenhartz, of Hamburg, in his masterly monograph on Erysipelas in Hofrath Prof. Hermann Nothnagel's Specielle Pathologic und Therapie (vol. iii. part 3), considers that pneumonia is to be regarded as erysipelatous only when it has arisen in immediate connection with a cutaneous, pharyngeal, or laryngeal ery- sipelas. Mosny, however, saw a pneumonia appear in the servant of a gentleman ill of facial erysipelas. The attack terminated fatally within two days. At the autopsy a circum- scribed broncho-pneumonic area was found, from which pure cultures of streptococci were obtained. These produced a true erysipelas in the ear of a rabbit. Denuce and Schonfeld found the specific streptococci of erysipelas both in the pulmonary capillaries and in the peri- cardial and pleural exudations in cases of pneu- monia occurring in the course of erysipelas. Waldenburg and Friedreich have emphasised the connection between the so-called " wandering pnevimonias " and erysipelas. A serpiginous ad- vance of the pulmonary hepatisation, a marked tendency to involvement of both hmgs, the uniform occurrence of marked splenic enlarge- ment, and a frequent coincidence of acute ery- sipelas and "puerperal fever" caused Friedreich to speak of these cases as " erysipelatous pneu- monias." Lenhartz, in quotmg the foregoing authors, while not denying the possibility of primary erysipelatous pneumonias, considers that they are extremely rare. It is, however, certain that such pneumonias may be caused by the Strepto- coccus erysipelatis, and not by the Diplococcus pneumoniae of Fraenkel, when they accompany or follow an external erysipelas. It may, in his opinion, remain doubtful whether a direct transmission of the germ from the skin to the lungs has caused the pneumonia, or whether the infection has occurred through the blood. In the latter case the erysipelatous pneumonia is to be simply interpreted as a septicEemic manifestation. II. Influenza.—In the article on this disease (vol. iv. p. 429) it was pointed out that the pneumonia of influenza, while producing the ordinary physical signs of acute croupous pneumonia, is often latent in its course or accompanied by a profuse muco-purulent ex- pectoration, with scarcely any rusty sputa. Leyden describes the pneumonias observed by him in influenza as running a peculiar course : severe pain in the side and dyspnoea were rarely noticed, the typical sputum was often wanting, the local process was often atypical—being of a migratory, catarrhal, and of a lobular distribu- tion in many instances. The foremost German authorities on the influenza of 1889-1890 laid stress on the erysipelas-like spread of influenza- pneumonia in the lungs, and on the prominent part which the Streptococcus pyogenes seemed to play in its etiology. The question, however, in such cases is probably one of a secondary in- fection, for which the attack of influenza merely laid the foundation. Certainly the discovery by PfeifFer, in 1892, of the Bacillus injiuenz(B in the purulent bronchial secretion, and by Canon in the blood of patients suffering from epidemic influenza, must be regarded as con- clusive proof of the existence of a specific primary infection to which all other infections are accidental or secondary. III. Tuberculosis.—We do not here allude to acute tubercular fever (in which the lungs may escape unscathed) on tlie one hand, or on the other to the local peripneumonic processes which accompany sporadic depositions of tubercle in the lungs in ordinary catarrhal phthisis. Nor do we refer to those cases in which in the wake of an acute primary croupous pneumonia the wounded lung falls a ready prey to a secondary infection by the Bacillus tubercic- losis, when this micro-organism finds a fertile soil in the caseating exudation of an unresolved pneumonia. These several conditions are all beside the present question. Our concern is with acute phthisis, or scroful- ous pneumonia, and the so-called acute tuber- culo-pneumonic phthisis. Both these affections present consolidations in the lungs of a pneu- monic origin, but tuberculisation, as well as pneumonia, exists. In both these varieties of " Consumption" we have examples of true pneumonia resulting from an infection by the Bacillus tuberculosis of Koch. IV. Enteric Fever.—It is well known that pneumonia is more commonly observed as a complication in enteric fever than in typhus. Murchison noted it in 13 out of 100 cases, and Austin Flint (according to Bartlett) in 12 out of 73 cases. It commonly occurs in the third or fourth week, but may usher in the disease. In this latter case its presence is probably an indication that the enteric fever poison has entered the system through the lungs. It is most commonly a lobular pneu- monia, but occasionally it occurs under the form of ordinary croupous pneumonia. It is, indeed, true that Eberth points out that anatomical investigations had (up to 1881) afforded no evidence of the admission of the Bacillus typhosus through the lungs. With this Gaffky does not agree, for he considers it highly probable — or at least the possibility cannot be contested—that the lungs may occa- sionally represent the seat of invasion. Eberth himself quotes a case observed by W. Meyer, of Berlin, in which death ensued on the second day of illness. In this case there were found at the autopsy hypersemia of the lungs, spleen, and kidneys, in the lower portion of the ileum marked swelling of the solitary follicles and