406 PULSE, THE ditions a left ventricle connected by a narrow opening with a relatively capacious aorta. On this account the ventricular contraction is slowly developed, and the "shock" imparted to the column of blood at the root of the aorta is more slowly propagated throughout the arterial system than it is under normal conditions. The " systolic wave " is thus modified in much Fig. 53.—Pulse of a child aged 4 months. To show the division of the systolic wave into two summits. the same manner as it is in the fontanelle pulse, and rises in a sloping direction instead of being a vertical line. The features of a high-pressure pulse are thus delineated in the tracing from a new-born infant for the same reasons that they are reproduced in aortic stenosis or aneurysm in the adult. Until the end of the first year of life the Fig. 54.—Pulse of a premature infant (7 months' gestation) when with pulse of aortic stenosis or aneurysm. infant's pulse remains as this high-pressure type, but after a few months the systolic wave is more distinctly divided into a double summit, and the volume of the pulse increases. It is interesting to note the effects of pyrexia on the pulse of infants under a year old ; a high degree of fever at this age does not render the pulse dicrotic or hyperdicrotic (Fig. 55). In adults the form of pulse-curve is very readily altered by even slight elevations of temperature, and varying degrees of dicrotism are produced. In children under one year old it is most unusual to obtain a pulse-tracing which shows a well- marked dicrotic wave, either as a result of pyrexia or from any other cause. At this age a dicrotic pulse is occasionally found in broncho- pneumonia, where the blood pressure is extremely low. Pulse Irregularity Introduction.—Perhaps nothing strikes one so much in the study of the pulse as the frequent occurrence of irregularity. Children will some- times exhibit a remarkable form of pulse, which it is difficult to reconcile with perfect health, and yet there is often no indication of disease. The peculiarity of the pulse-rhythm may be of a very transient nature, or it may be present over a considerable period. It may be noticed in the infant at birth, or soon afterwards, when the pulse-rate is unusually slow; this kind of ir- regulai'ity disappears when the pulse becomes rapid. The pulse-wave increases in strength and volume from birth to puberty, and the increase in size of the radial artery is proportionately greater than the growth of the hand. The rate of the pulse of the young infant, if care fully observed, will be found to vary enor mously. When a child is kept in bed for a considerable period the pulse invariably slows down in a striking manner, and the same thing is noticed after a febrile attack. Under the influence of a high temperature the pulse will be very greatly accelerated, but after the fever subsides the rate becomes abnormally slow and, at the same time, there is a tendency to irregularity of rhythm. During sleep the same type of slow, irregular pulse is loften found After the third year of life there is a notable diminution in the rate of the pulse. Great fre quency of the pulse in young children has much less significance than in adults. The enormous rapidity at the commence ment of a scarlatinal attack is sometimes striking, and in the later stages of tuber cular meningitis a peculiar irregularity in a very rapid pulse is worthy of note- 10 days old. (Compare the number of beats counted ) in separate quarter minutes is found to vary remarkably Persistent slowness of the pulse in early life is unusual, and may suggest cerebral disease But in ill-nourished, marasmic babies great slowing of the pulse is sometimes observed, and this symptom has been noted in cases of sclerema neonatorum. Catarrhal jaundice in children under six or seven years of age does not appear to Fig. 55.—Pulse of a child ict. 11 months ; temp. 105°. (Dicrotism has not been produced.) produce a slowing of the pulse-rate, at least not to such a marked degree as is observed in adults. The rhythm and character of the pulse are frequently of very great value. In the acute pneumonias of young children, if sphygmo- grapliic records be made throughout the course of the disease, important conclusions may be formed as to the favourable or unfavourable progress of the case, and of the good or bad effects of treatment.