554 KHEUMATISM IN CHILDREN no direct causal origin in the rheumatic poison, as cases of any one of them occurring along with active rheumatic symptoms are events of exceptional rarity. An explanation of the association of such nervous disorders and rheu- matism is rather to be found in the " nervous " temperament, which is one of the most striking features in rheumatic children. As Dr. Still writes, "The nervous child is par excellence the nervous child." This is shown in some instances by an almost uncontrollable excite- ment over games and amusements, in some by excessive timidity, and in others by a sensitive- ness or shyness which is almost morbid. One nervous disorder directly due to active rheu- matism is peripheral neuritis, as evidenced by pain in the course of the nerves and subsequent wasting of the connected muscles. This is not so very uncommon, and would perhaps be more often found if systematically looked for. Ancemia.—A profound degree of aneemia is very rapidly attained in the severe rheumatic attacks, and this may be very slowly recovered from. Along with the ansemia there is often considerable leucocytosis in the blood. In the intervals between more definite seizures, rheu- matic children are prone to attacks of ansemia without any ascertainable cause. Chronic anaemia in rheumatic children is perhaps more directly ascribable to the frequently associated heart disease, but it becomes intensified with the onset of fresh symptoms of the complaint. Wasting.—In the course of an attack of rheu- matism there is often a rapid and marked loss of flesh, much greater than the pyrexia and duration of the illness would account for. It is true, too, perhaps, that thin children are more subject to rheumatism than those who are plump. Subcutaneous Nodules.—Where so many of the other symptoms are inconspicuous and short-lived, too much importance cannot be placed upon the presence of subcutaneous fibrous nodules. In their typical forms and situations they are absolutely diagnostic of rheumatism, although it is quite possible that subcutaneous nodules may occur in syphilis, rheumatoid arthritis, and perhaps other complaints. Rheu- matic fibrous nodules are small exci-escences under the skin, varying in size from that of a pin's-head to that of about half a hazel-nut. They may be solitary or numerous, but most often occur in crops, with a tendency to sym- metry in their distribution. Very frequently their eruption is preceded by a rise of tempera- ture three or four days beforehand. They are strictly subcutaneous, and the overlying skin is freely movable over them. As a rule they are movable over the imderlying structures, but in places where the skin is closely adjacent to bone, as on the scalp and the neighbourhood of the patella, it may be difficult or impossible to separate the nodules from the adjoining bone. When very small, they can often be seen better than felt, by putting the overlying structures on the stretch. Their far most frequent situa- tion is the back of the elbow joint. Very often it is the only one in which they are to be found, and cases in which they occur in other places without the neighbourhood of the elbow joint being affected must be exceptional in the ex- treme. For their detection, then, in the vast majority of instances, it is sufficient to flex the elbow joint and carefully examine the structures on the posterior surface. Subcutaneous fibrous nodules occur in many other regions than the neighbourhood of the elbow joint. They are not infrequent about the patella, the iliac crests, the pericranium, the spine and margins of the scapula, the skin over the spinous processes of the vertebrae, over the bony prominences of the hands and feet, and elsewhere. Besides these nodules in the subcutaneous tissues, nodular thickenings, homologous in nature with the last, are apt to occur in the tendons of the muscles, more especially in the flexor tendons of the wrists, the tendons about the malleoli of the feet, and the flexor and extensor tendons of the fingers and toes. Occasionally they are found in the tendinous expansions of the ab- dominal muscles. They are painless in them- selves, but are sometimes tender to pressure. Their presence in the scalp is often only detected by the comb catching on them when the hair is being dressed. Some vanish in the course of a few days, others persist for months, or even more than a year. Persistent nodules are often, or generally, accompanied by pro- gressive endocarditis. Numerous nodules, and still more so nodules of large size, are omens of bad prognosis, and this out of all proportion to the extent any accompanying endocarditis may have attained. Subcutaneous fibrous nodules are invariably associated with cardiac disease, cases where they have been noted and there has been no demonstrable cardiac lesion being so exceedingly exceptional that they may be left out of account in dealing with the connection between nodules and moi-bus cardis. In cases where the heart has been healthy, the advent of subcutaneous nodules is almost invariably attended by the signs of recent endocarditis or pericarditis; and in cases where the heart is already affected, the onset of nodules is often accompanied by fresh additions to the heart symptoms, or an aggravation of those already existing. Con- siderations such as these lend strong support to the contention of Barlow and Warner that bodies analogous to the fibrous nodules in the subcutaneous tissues form the basis of the vegetations in the cardiac valves in rheumatic morbus cardis. Further support of this view is afforded by the fact that bodies histologically identical with subcutaneous fibrous nodules have occasionally been discovered post-