542 RHEUMATISM, ACUTE hand, an acute attack of the arthritic type is very rarely indeed fatal, and when this is the case death is usually due to the supervention of cerebral rheumatism and hyperpyrexia. In thus sketching briefly the clinical symp- toms of the arthritic type of the disease, I do not wish to imply that the more severe types of rheumatic fever with visceral inflammations are complications of the true disease. To this extent they are complications, that they intro- duce many new dangers, and need a more elaborate watchfulness and care in their treat- ment, but they are, I believe, essentially rheu- matic manifestations and not the result of secondary infection. To enter into detail upon these various manifestations would be to trespass upon the articles already devoted to their study, and it must suffice to point out the chief clinical symptoms which lead the physician to recognise their occurrence. First in order of importance are the cardiac affections—endocarditis, pericarditis, and myo- carditis. The proper understanding of these will be much simplified if it is recognised that in severe rheumatism of the heart all the struc- tures are injured, and that the condition is one of carditis—but in some cases the brunt of the disease falls on the valves, in others on the pericardium, and again in others, probably, on the myocardium. Recalling the teaching of the morbid anatomy, we must dismiss from our minds the idea that myocardial changes neces- sarily spread from the pericardial inflammation, and recognise that they are a morbid result of the rheumatic poisons upon the muscular structure, as much as are the somewhat similar though more intense changes in diphtheria the result of the toxins of that disease. As age advances the cardiac aff"ections become less frequent, but dilatation of the heart, the earliest evidences of which have already been described, still remains frequent. Endocarditis.—It is difficult to determine at the bedside when the valves are actually in- flamed, for the onset of the valvulitis may be at any period in the disease, and the amount of general disturbance very slight. Reduplication of the second sound over the impulse, especially if with this there is a soft systolic murmur which can be traced toward the left axilla, points strongly to some damage of the segments of the mitral valve, and though the murmur may subsequently disappear, this persistent alteration in the character of the second sound betrays that the valve has been slightly damaged. Any rise of temperature or increase in the rapidity of the pulse must be looked for as an additional proof of the occurrence of endo- carditis. Malignant endocarditis is fortunately not a common occurrence in rheumatic fever, though from investigations made with Dr. Alexander Paine, I am convinced that this result may be a manifestation of rheumatic fever, especially when the valves have been damaged by previous attacks of rheumatism. The onset of this fatal form of valvulitis is usually very gradual; per- sistent rapidity of the action of the heart, loud and often musical murmurs, irregular fever, infarction, ansemia, and emaciation are among the important indications. In some cases there is doubt as to the diagnosis, even to the very end of the illness, but, as a rule, with the progress of the disease the symptoms diverge more and more from those which are associated with simple rheumatic fever. Pericarditis.—It is the virulent rheumatic infections, such as are more frequently seen in childhood, that give rise to pericarditis, and its occurrence is always a grave matter. But to separate rheumatic pericarditis from endocard- itis and myocarditis, and to study it apart from them, is difficult and in some degree mis- leading. There are many cases of carditis in which pericardial inflammation cannot be de- tected or does not occur, which nevertheless damage the heart very seriously, and their importance is apt to be underrated because pericardial friction has not been heard. Over- much of the actual damage to the heart in rheumatism has very probably been laid at the door of pericarditis and the adherent pericar- dium, which is so frequent as a sequel. Pain over the heart, dyspnoea, a rise in the temperature, pallor of the face, mental anxiety, and even delirium are among the eai'ly signs of pericarditis. The pulse is rapid, often irregular, and the tension remarkably low. The pericardial friction sound is frequent, and it may not be out of place here to insist upon the fact that the greatly increased area of the cardiac dulness that is so common is far more often the result of cardiac dilatation than of a large pericardial effvision. Myocarditis. — The myocardial changes in rheumatic fever are very difficult if not impos- sible to diagnose, though we may often have good reason for suspecting them. Insidious myocardial disease of rheumatic origin is also very possibly more important than is generally recognised, for it is undoubted that there are cases of rheumatic morbus cordis, the symptoms of which are far more urgent than the physical signs would lead us to expect, and which are some of them due to damage to the cardiac muscle. All rheumatic affections of the heart may commence so unobtrusively that nothing but a routine and careful examination in every case of rheumatic fever can protect us from error. And when rheumatic fever has left its traces on the heart, and the patient is numbered as one of the great group of cases of morbus cordis, it is more often a fresh attack of rheumatism