136 PLEURA, DISEASES OF question of the part played by chill in the causation of pleurisy. The writer has inquired into the subject in 74 cases which have been under his observation, chiefly in hospital practice. In 26 a history of chill was obtained, while in the remaining 48 cases there was no such history. In most cases chill took the form either of a wetting or of a rapid cooling of the body when overheated. When it is remembered with what facility a history of chill is volunteered, especially by patients of the hospital class, per- haps the noteworthy fact about these figures is not that a history of chill was available in one- third of the cases, but rather the absence of such a history in two-thirds. Still, the influence of chill cannot be eliminated. Those who hold that all cases of pleurisy are due to the presence of micro-organisms regard chill simply as a pre- disposing cause, as " lowering the vitality" of the organism, and so rendering it more sus- ceptible to microbic invasion. As regards the influence of chill and its possible relation to the action of bacteria, pleurisy stands on much the same footing as pneumonia. Specific Fevers.—Pleurisy is a not uncommon complication of some of the specific fevers, especially scarlet fever and smallpox. It is somewhat unusual in typhoid fever. Influenza is frequently assigned as a cause—often errone- ously. Bright's Disease.—In all forms of chronic Bright's disease we find a proclivity to inflam- mations of the various serous membranes, and the pleurae are frequently affected. Rheumatism.—It seems doubtful if there is any real causal connection between rheumatism and pleurisy. Of the 74 cases in the writer's practice, rheumatism was noted as being present only in 6. In the case of two diseases which are both sometimes associated with chill this proportion does not seem to exceed the possible limits of accidental concomitance. Valvular disease of the heart was noted in only 4 out of the 74 cases, a fact which tends to corroborate the view that there is no definite relation between pleurisy and rheumatism. It would appear that in the present state of our know- ledge there is not sufficient ground for postu- lating the existence of a " rheumatic pleurisy." Clinical History. — Onset. — In a small number of cases the onset of the disease is acute and "pneumonic" in type. There are grounds for thinking that these cases are due to pnemnococcus invasion. In a larger group of cases, perhaps about one-half, the onset, though less acute and severe than in the above class, is well marked. The writer found this mode of onset in 18 out of 39 cases. In a third group of cases the onset is gradual but fairly definite, while in a fourth group the onset is entirely latent, and the disease escapes detection until the patient seeks advice for weakness or short- ness of breath, and a pleural effusion of some duration is discovered. The first symptom is usually " stitch " in the side, with embarrassed breathing and some rise of temperature. A series of " chills" is common; a single severe rigor is rare. Vomiting may occur, and in children convulsions are sometimes noted. The temperature rises irregularly, and does not usually exceed 102° to 103° F. In some cases fever is absent. The course and duration of the pyrexia present much variation. The aspect and decubitus of a patient in the early stage of acute pleurisy are often characteristic. He lies on his back, or on the sound side, often curled up in a constrained position in the bed, and he leans forward and presses his hand to the affected side. His face shows that his suffering is severe. In addition to "stitch "in the side there may be a "referred pain" in various parts of the thorax or abdomen. The breathing is shallow and ineffectual, but it is evident that the patient refrains from taking deep breaths not from inability to do so, but simply through fear of exciting pain. There is rarely any of the acute dyspnoea, the besoin cle respirey; which is so marked in pneumonia. The face is slightly flushed, and in rare cases herpes may be present about the mouth. There are the usual symp- toms characteristic of pyrexia. In a short time, usually within forty-eight hours, the patient's condition undergoes a change. Eff"usion sets in, the pain in the side is relieved, and the patient feels better, but is conscious of increasing shortness of breath, especially if he makes any exertion. He now finds himself more comfortable lying on the affected side, as this allows the lung on the sound side free play. The temperature remains usually at 101° to 103° F. in the evenings, with morning remission. The patient's condition may now undergo only slight change for some days, the state of the respiratory function depending largely on the amount of the eff'usion. In favourable cases absorption sets in towards the end of the second or the beginning of the third week, and may proceed rapidly. Pain in the side commonly reappears at this stage. Convalescence may be complete at the end of three or four weeks, but is often delayed. Cough is usually present throughout the disease, but is sometimes absent. It is often hard and unsatisfying, and accompanied by only scanty expectoration, which may be blood-stained at the outset; later it is usually mucoid or muco- purulent. Where oedema of the lung has super- vened, on paracentesis thoracis, the expectoration is profuse and watery. Foetor of the expectora- tion usually indicates that a foetid empyema has burst through the lung. Diarrhoea is common. The urine is febrile, and not infre- quently contains a little albumin. Attacks of pleurisy present almost every grade of severity, and the symptoms vary accordingly. A tedious convalescence may occur, even in cases which