PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 11 and put together, their sectional area would be many times the sectional area of the aorta. And, if all the capillary vessels were cut across and placed together, the sectional area would be about 700 times that of the aorta. From the capillaries, the sectional area of the veins and lymphatics steadily diminishes as the smaller branches join with one another to form the larger veins and lymphatics; but, even at the enti'ance to the heart, the sectional area of the returning tubes, the veins, is about twice as great as that of the aorta (Fig. l-tO, p. 36). The circulatory system may thus be compared to a stream which flows from a narrow deep channel, the aorta, into a gradually broadening bed, the greatest breadth of the channel being- reached in the capillaries. From this point the channel gradually narrows until the heart is reached. Hence the blood stream is very rapid in the arteries where the channel is narrow, and very sluggish in the capillaries where the channel is wide, so that in them plenty of time is allowed for exchanges between the blood and the tissues. II. The Central Pump—The Heart A. Structure.—A very simple form of heart exists in the ascidians. At one point on a large vessel there is a thickening in the wall composed of non-striped muscular fibres. A contraction is seen to pass from one end of this to the other at frequent regular intervals, thus forcing the fluid through the vessels. The embryonic heart in man has a similar structure. In the snail and cuttle-fish, in addition to the contracting muscular thickening, there is also a thin-walled receiving chamber into which the blood flows before it is expelled onwards. The heart is thus composed of two chambers— \st. A receiving chamber—the auricle. 2nd. An expelling chamber—the ventricle. In fish the heart has a similar structure. But in lung-bearing animals a more complex arrangement is required, and a double heart is found: one concerned with the propulsion of blood to the system generally, and hence called the systemic heart; one propelling blood to the lungs, and hence called the pulmonic heart. In mammals, the former chamber is on the left side, the latter on the right. Each consists of a receiving and expelling chamber—an auricle and a ventricle. The walls of these chambers are essentially muscular; but this muscular layer, or myo- cardium, lies between two fibrous layers, the pericardium and the endocardium. The musculature of the auricles is separate from that of the ventricles, but some fibres more like ordinary visceral fibres than cardiac muscle extend from one to the other. This band of His' plays a most important part in conducting contraction started in the auricles to the ventricles. If the heart be boiled, the auricles, the aorta, and the pulmonary artery may be separated from the ventricles. This is because boiling converts fibrous tissue to gelatine and dissolves it, and it is by white fibrous tissue that the auricles and great arteries are attached to the ventricles. This tissue is arranged in three rings : one encircling the opening between the right auricle and ventricle, and crescentic in shape ; one, more circular in shape, encircling in common the left auriculo-ventricular and the aortic orifice ; and one encircling the pulmo- nary opening. The auricles are attached to the auriculo-ventricular rings above, the ven- tricles are attached below, while the valves of the heart are also connected with them. The muscular fibres of the auricles are arranged in two badly-defined layers— \st. An outer layer running horizontally round both auricles. '2nd. An inner layer arching over each auricle, and connected with the auriculo-ventricular rings. Contraction of the first layer diminishes the capacity of the auricles from side to side. Con- traction of the second pulls the auricles down- wards towards the ventricles, and thus diminishes their capacity from above downwards. The peculiar striped muscle fibres of the auricular wall extend for some distance along the great veins which open into these chambers. The left ventricle forms the cylindrical core to the heart, and the right ventricle is attached along one side of it. The septum between the venti'icles is essentially the right wall of the left Flo. 116.—Cross section tlirough the ventricles of tlie heart look- ing towards auricles, to show the right ventricle placed on the central core of the left ventricle. The cusps of the auriculo-ventricular valves are also shown. A'entricle, and it bulges into the right ventricle with a double convexity from above downwards and from before backwards (Fig. 116). The muscle fibres of the ventricles are arranged essentially in thi'ee layers— l.s^ The outmost layer takes origin from the auriculo-ventricular rings, and passes down- wards and to the left till it reaches the apex of the heart. Here it turns inwards, forming a sort of vortex, and becomes continuous witli the inmost layer.