POST-MORTEM METHODS 201 The substance is paler than normal in— Cloudy swelling; fatty changes; waxy disease; cirrhosis. It is darker than normal in— Chronic venous congestion ; in pigmentary conditions and tumours. Its consistence is softer in— Fatty changes; acute yellow atrophy. Its consistence \^ firmer in— Cirrhosis; waxy disease; late stages of chronic venous congestion ; fibrosis from syphilis or other cause. The only organs now left in the abdomen are the kidneys and suprarenal capsules. The latter are not usually examined closely, unless for some reason or other attention is specially directed to them. They may show waxy degeneration along with other organs, where chronic suppurations or tertiary syphilitic conditions exist. They are the seat of tubercular caseation in Addison's disease, and occasionally show tumour-growth, usually secondary. In cases of toxaemia the medulla may become so soft that, in removal from the body, it breaks down, and the organ comes to resemble a cyst bounded by the more resistant cortex. The Kidneys must always be carefully examined. To remove a kidney, cut through the peri- toneum at its outer margin and peel it oif the surface, then raise the organ out of its bed, separating the structures surrounding it until it is attached only by its vessels and ureter. Cut these across at some distance from the hilum, noting whether any fluid escapes from the ureter, and if so, its character, whether clear or turbid. If the ureter or ureters be dilated, it is advisable to remove the whole urinary tract, including part, at any rate, of the corpus spongiosum urethrse, particularly if stricture of the urethra be suspected. After examining the surface and noting ab- normal firmness of perinephric fat, presence of perinephric abscess, or congestion of the surface, cut it open from the outer margin inwards towards the hilum, being careful not to injure the hand holding it. Then examine in order— Capsule. Cortex. Medulla. Renal pelvis and ureter. In normal conditions in the male the left kidney weighs, on an average, 5|- ounces, the right kidney 5| ounces, in the female being about half an ounce lighter. The left is usually longer and narrower than the right, but this distinction does not always hold, and one has to determine the side of the excised kidney by the position of the structures entering and leaving its hilum; the vein is in front, the artery in the middle, and the ureter behind and at its lower part. If fat surround it, it should separate easily. The capsule is thin, translucent, and when a section of the organ is made should strip readily. On the cut surface the cortex should bear to the medulla a relationship of about one to three, and should be of a dull, brownish colour, but paler than the medulla. In children a lobated arrangement is apparent up to about the third year, and on section the interpyramidal cortex may also be separated into two, each part in connection with its own pyramid. This condition may persist—"foetal lobulation." The two kidneys may be connected at their lower part by kidney substance or by a fibrous band. This is the " horse-shoe kidney." The ureters always pass in front of the connecting bridge. The malformation does not interfere with fimction. If one kidney becomes functionless the other undergoes compensatory hypertrophy. A uniform cystic transformation exists in the congenital cystic kidney. If a sharply circumscribed area of an otherwise functionating kidney be cystic, it usually indi- cates an adenomatous new-growth. If scattered cysts exist in a firm, functionating kidney, they are retention cysts, due to disease (chronic interstitial inflammation) of the organ, or to other causes obstructing the tubules. General Characters of Disease in the Kidneys. —A soft, flabby kidney indicates parenchy- matous change. A kidney of firm consistence indicates an interstitial change. A very easily stripped capsule indicates a parenchymatous change. A thickened and adherent capsule indicates interstitial change of some standing. In re- moving it, portions of kidney substance adhere to it. A thickened subcapsular cortex usually indi- cates parenchymatous change, particularly if pale, or patchy, or yellow. A thickened inter-pyramidal cortex is usually present in interstitial inflammation. An atrophied cortex, associated with adherent capsule, indicates chronic interstitial inflam- mation. Marked increase of fat round the pelvis indicates atrophic changes in the kidney such as occur in chronic interstitial nephritis, or arterio-sclerotic atrophy. Yellow spots in the kidney substance, sur- rounded by a zone of congestion, are suppurative in origin. Grey or yellow spots, without a zone of congestion, are tuberculous in origin. Distinct dilatation of the pelvis of the kidney —hydronephrosis—occurs only from obstruction below in the urinary passages. Unilateral hydronephrosis results from obstruction or stricture of the ureter corresponding. Bilat-