PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 55 compounds. Among these are lecithin and a compound which has been called phosphocarnic acid, the constitution of which is not fully understood. In human milk the greater part of the phosphorus is in organic combinations, while in cow's milk the amount in inorganic compounds is much greater. Milk is especially rich in calcium and potas- sium, but the amount of iron in milk is very small, and therefore, when the child has used up the store of iron which it has in its body at birth, it is necessary to replace the milk-diet by foods containing more iron. Cow's milk is an important constituent of the diet. Its average composition compared with human milk is as follows :— Cow's. Human. Water .... 88-3 88-8 Proteins .... 3-0 1-0 Fats .... 3-5 3-5 Carbohydrates 4-5 6-5 Salts .... 0-7 0-2 Butter and cream are simply the fats of the milk more or less completely separated from the other constituents. Cheese is produced by causing the coagulation of the casein, which carries with it a large amount of the fats. If cheese is made before the removal of the cream it is rich in fats, if after the removal of the cream it is poor in fats. Cheese contains between 25 and 30 per cent of protein, and between 10 and 30 per cent of fat. It is as a source of protein that it is of chief value. Cheese, when allowed to stand, affords a suitable nidus for the growth of micro-organisms by the action of which the proteins are digested into peptones and simpler bodies, and the fats split up into glycerine and the lower fatty acids. These free fatty acids give the peculiar flavour to ripe cheese. The lactose is in part converted into lactic acid. 2. Flesh.—Under this head may be included not only the muscles of various animals, but also such cellular organs as the liver and kidneys. When free of fat, they contain about 20 per cent of proteins. These are chiefly native proteins, but a certain amount of collagen is also present which yields gelatin on boiling. The amount of fat may vary from almost nil in white fish to about 80 per cent in fat bacon. In animals specially fed, the amount of fat may be enormously increased, and even ordinary butchers' meat may have more fat than protein. Flesh is thus a source of proteins and sclero- proteins, and to a smaller extent of fats. The extractives include such bodies as creatin, xanthin, inosit, etc. (vol. vii. p. 503), which may help to give the peculiar flavour to the flesh of various animals. Flesh may be preserved in various ways—e.g. by simply drying, by salting, or by smoking. The result of each of these procedures is to diminish the amount of water, and thus to increase the solids. 3. Eggs.—The egg of the domestic fowl need alone be considered The composition of the white and of the yolk naturally diff'ers consider- ably. The white of egg is nothing more than a solution of proteins. In the yolk there is a very large amount of lecithin (p. 75) along with ordinary fats, and a lai'ge amount of a phospho-protein ; and the great value of eggs is thus that they contain both proteins, ordinary fats, and the special phosphorus containing protein and fat. The mixed contents of the egg contains a little more than 10 per cent each of proteins and of fats. Speaking generally, we may say that the animal food-stufls are rich in proteins and fats, but are poor in carbohydrates. Vegetahle Food-Stuffs. — In the food of man, vegetables play as important a part as animal products. The peculiarity of special importance in vege- tables is the existence of a capsule to the cells, composed of cellulose — a siibstance allied to starch in its composition, but which is very resistant to the action of the human digestive juices, and thus hinders the utilisation of the cell contents. In order that these may be digested and absorbed from the stomach and intestine, this capsule must be broken down either by some preparatoiy treatment, or by the teeth in the act of chewing. Although of pi'actically no value as a food-stuff, it acts as a natural purgative by stimulating the intestines, and is of great value in keeping up the regular action of the bowels. I. Cereals.—From the seeds of these, meals and flours are prepared. Oatmeal contains about 15 per cent of pro- teins, about 6 per cent of fats, and about 65 per cent of carbohydrates. Wheaten flour contains about 10 per cent of proteins, 1 per cent of fats, and 75 per cent of carbohydrates. Ordinary white bread, prepared from wheaten flour, contains only about 7 per cent of proteins and 55 per cent of carbohydrates. The proteins of these cereals are mixtures of various globulins which differ, in certain of their characters, from the animal proteins. They are most abundant in the outer part of the grain, just under the capsule. While oatmeal and maize contain a fair pro- portion of fat, the other cereals are poor in this constituent. The chief constituents of all these seeds are the carbohydrates stored as starch. II. Legumens.—The seeds of the leguminosse