PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 34 by slicing away this part of the brain from above downwards, and studying the influence of reflex stimulation after the removal of each slice. It is found that at a short distance below the corpora quadrigemina, the removal of each succeeding part is followed by a diminution in the reflex constriction, until, at a point close to and just above the calamus scriptorius, all re- flex response to stimulation stops. The centre is therefore one of very consider- able longitudinal extent. But it has been found that if, after section of the spinal cord high up, the animal be kept alive for some days, the dilated arterioles again contract, and stimulation of afferent nerves entering the cord below the point of section causes a further constriction. If now another section be made further down the cord, the arterioles supplied by nerves coming from below the point of section will again dilate. This shows that secondary vaso-constrictor centres, tonic in action and capable of having their activity reflexly increased, exist all down the grey matter of the spinal cord. Normally these are under the domain of the dominant centre, but when this is out of action they then come into play. B. Vaso-dilator Centre.—(a) Mode of Action. —This mechanism is not constantly in action. Section of a vaso-dilator nerve does not cause vascular dilatation. It may be excited reflexly, but in a different manner from the vaso-con- strictor mechanism. Stimulation of an afferent nerve causes a dilatation of the arterioles in the part from which it comes, and a constriction of the arterioles throughout the rest of the body. If a sapid substance, such as pepper, be put in the mouth, the buccal mucous membrane and the salivary glands become engorged, while there is a constriction of the arterioles throughout the body. The vaso-dilator central mechanism is not general in its action like the vaso-con- strictor, but is specially related to the different parts of the body. This is a matter of the greatest importance in physiology and pathology. It explains the increased vascularity of a part when active growth is going on. The changes in the part, or the products of these, stimulate the afferent nerve. This reflexly stimulates the vaso-dilator mechanism of the part, and thus causes a free flow of blood into the capillaries, and at the same time maintains or actually raises the arterial pressure by causing a general constric- tion of the arterioles, and thus forces more blood to the situation in which it is required. The same process occurs in the case of the stomach during digestion, in the case of the kidney during secretion, and in the process of inflammation. Not only does peripheral stimulation act in this way, but various states of the brain, ac- companied by emotions, may stimulate part of the vaso-dilator mechanism, as in the act of blushing. Again, it has been shown that stimulation of the central end of the depressor nerve (superior cardiac branch of the vagus) causes a dilatation of the arterioles chiefly in the abdominal cavity, but also throughout the body generally. This is the most generalised vaso-dilator reflex known (see p. 23). (b) Position. — While the dominant vaso- constrictor centre is in the medulla, the vaso- dilator centres seem to be distributed through- out the medulla and spinal cord. II. Pressure in the Capillaries.—This may be determined by finding the pressure required to blanch the skin or to occlude the capillaries of some transparent membrane. It has already been shown that the pressure is less than in the arteries and greater than in the veins. Like the pressure in the arteries, it depends upon the two factors— 1st. Force of inflow. 2nd. Resistance to outflow, Ist. Variations in the Force of hifiow.—The capillary pressure may undergo marked local changes through the vaso-motor mechanism. Wherever the function of a part is active, dilatation of the arterioles and an increased capillary pressure exists, and when the influence of vaso-dilator nerves is withdrawn, the capillary pressure falls. But the capillary pressure may also be modified by the heart's action, inasmuch as the arterial pressure, by which blood is driven into the capillaries, depends upon this. In cardiac inhibition not only is arterial pressure lowered, but capillary pressure may also fall. In aug- mented heart action both arterial and capillary pressure are raised. 2nd. Variations in Resistance to Outflow.— Normally the flow from capillaries to veins is free and unobstructed; but, if the veins get blocked, or if the flow in them is retarded by gravity, the capillaries get engorged with the blood which cannot escape from them. This increased pressure in the capillaries is very different from that caused by increased inflow. The flow through the vessels is slowed or may be stopped instead of being accelerated, and the blood gets deprived of its nourishing con- stituents, loaded with waste products, and tends to exude into the lymph spaces, causing dropsy. It is, therefore, most important to distinguish between high capillary pressure from dilated arterioles or an active heart, and high pressure due to venous obstruction. A condition very similar to that described, but producing a capillary pressure high relatively to the pressure in the arteries—though not absolutely