PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 32 ith. By streaming blood through the vessels and observing the rate at which it escapes, the changes in the state of the arterioles may be made out. This perfusion method is much used in studying the action of drugs. 5</i. Since the state of the arterioles influences the arterial pressure, the heart's action is kept unifoi'm, changes in the arterial blood pressure indicate changes in the arterioles, a fall of pressure indicating dilatation, a rise of pressure, constriction. Normal State of Arterioles.—If an arteriole in some transparent tissue be examined, it will be found to maintain a fairly uniform size, but to undergo periodic slow changes in calibre. If the ear of a white rabbit be studied, it will be seen to undergo slow changes, at one time appearing pale and bloodless, at another time red and engorged. During this latter phase numerous vessels appear which in the former condition were invisible. These slow changes are independent of the heart's action and of the rate of respirations. They appear to be due to the periodic rhythmic contraction which is a characteristic property of visceral muscle fibres. This rhythmic action is better marked in some vessels than in others. Vaso-motor Mechanism. —If the sciatic nerve of a frog be cut, the arterioles in the foot at once dilate. If the sciatic be stimulated, the arterioles become smaller. The same results follow if the anterior roots of the lower spinal nerves, from which the sciatic takes origin, be cut or stimulated. We must, therefore, conclude (1) that the central nervous system exerts a constant tonic influence upon the arterioles, keeping them in a state of semi-contraction; and (2) that this influence may be increased, and thus a constric- tion of the arterioles caused, and in this way the flow of blood from arteries to capillaries obstructed and the arterial pressure raised ; and (3) that this influence may be diminished, so that the arterioles dilate and allow an increased flow into the capillaries from the arteries, and thus lower the arterial pressure. These mobile arterioles, under the control of the central nervous system, constitute a vaso- motor mechanism, which plays a most important part in connection with nearly every vital process in the body. By it the pressure in the arteries is governed, by it the supply of blood to the capillaries and tissues is controlled, and by it the loss of heat from the body is largely regulated (p. 72). This vaso-motor mechanism consists of the three parts :— \st. The contractile muscular walls of the arterioles with the nerve terminations in them. 2wc?. The nerves which pass to them. ?)rd. The portions of the central nervous system presiding over these. 1. Muscular Walls of the Arterioles.—The muscular fibres are maintained in a state of tonic semi-contraction by nerves passing to them, and when these nerves are divided, the muscular fibres relax. But if, after these nerves have been cut, the animal be allowed to live, in a few days the arterioles again pass into a state of tonic semi-contraction, although no union of the divided nerve has taken place. Certain drugs, e.g. digitalis and the salts of barium, act as direct stimulants to these muscle fibres. It appears that the muscular fibres in the arterioles, as elsewhere, tend to maintain them- selves in a state of partial contraction, which increases and diminishes in a regular rhythmic manner. The precise part played by the nerve termina- tions has not been definitely established, but certain drugs appear to act specially upon them. Thus apocodeine, while it does not prevent barium salts from constricting the vessels, pre- vents the constricting action of extracts of the medulla of the suprarenals, even when the nerves are cut. Hence it must be concluded that it paralyses a nervous mechanism in the arteriole wall which is stimulated by the supra- renal extract. Normally this muscular mechanism is con- trolled by the nervous system. 2. Vaso-motor Nerves.—When a nerve going to any part of the body is cut the arterioles of the part generally dilate, when it is stimulated the arterioles are usually contracted ; sometimes, however, they are dilated. In no case does section of a nerve cause constriction of the arterioles. These facts prove that the vaso-motor nerves may be divided into two classes :— \st. Vaso-constrictor. 'ind. Vaso-dilator. A. Vaso-constrictor Nerves.—The fact that section of these at once causes a dilatation of the arterioles proves that they are constantly trans- mitting impulses from the central nervous system. Course.—The course of these fibres has been investigated by section and by stimulation (Fig. 138). They leave the spinal cord chiefly in the dorsal region by the anterior roots of the spinal nerves, pass into the sympathetic ganglia, where they have their cell stations, and then as non-medullated fibres pass, either along the various sympathetic nerves to the viscera, or back through the grey ramus (see Fig. 83, vol. vii. p. 5-50), into the spinal nerve, and run in it to their terminations. B. Vaso-dilator Nerves.—A good example of such a nerve is to be found in the chorda tympani branch of the facial nerve, which sends fibres to the submaxillary and sublingual sali- vary glands. If this nerve be cut, no change takes place in the vessels of the gland, but