467 EADIUS TUBES (Eadms and Ulna); Wrist-Joint In- juries {Fractures, etc.). Radix.—A root (Lat. radix, a root), origin, or source. Thus the root of the nose is called radix nasi; and in Materia Medica the word often occurs, as radix belladonnce, radix rhei, etc. Rag-Picker's or Rag-Sorter's Disease. See Anthrax. RagatZ-Pfaefers. See Balneology (Switzerlarid); Mineral Waters (Thermal Waters). Railway Brain. See Railway Spine. Railway Sickness.—The nausea or actual sickness produced in sensitive persons by the oscillation of the carriage, etc., in railway travelling. Railway Spine. — Concussion of the spine, especially that produced by a railway accident. See Spine, Surgical Affections op {Railway Spine). Rain Gauge. See Meteorology {Meas- urement of Rainfall), Rainey's Bodies, Corpuscles, or Tubes.—Psorosperms, found specially in the muscles of the pig. See Parasites {Protozoa, Sarcocystis). Rainfall. See Climate {Individual Factors); Diphtheria {Etiology, Climatic Con- ditions) ; Meteorology {Rain and Snow, Rain- fall). Rale.—A rattling sound (Fr. rale, a rattle) produced in the lungs and heard on ausculta- tion ; it is due to the passage of air over or through mucus in the respiratory passages (larynx, trachea, and bronchi); different varieties are described, under the names of bubbling, coarse, crepitant, dry, fine, moist, sibilant, and sonorous. See Chest, Clinical Investigation op the {Auscultation of the Lungs). Rami. — Branches (plural of ramus, a branch); e.g. the rami communicantes of the spinal nerves, the ramus of the ischium, of the lower jaw, or of the pubes. Ramol I issement.—Softening of a tissue or organ occurring as a morbid process. Randamel. See Balneology {Norway, Sweden, and Iceland). Ransom's Disinfector.—An appar- atus for disinfecting by means of hot dry air. Ran Ula.—A small cyst situated below the tongue, and due to occlusion of a gland duct; it may be congenital. See Mouth, Diseases op {Diseases of the Floor of the Mouth, Ranulas); Parotid Gland, Disorders op {Inflammatory Conditions, " Acute Ramila"); Salivary Glands, Disorders of {Ranula). Ranvier'S Nodes. See Physiology, Tissues {Nerve, Structure, Fig. 38). Ranvier'S Solution.—A saturated solution of iodine containing 2 per cent of potassium iodide ; it is used for examining red blood corpuscles in a dry clot, for it does not lake them or alter their shape. RapallO. See Therapeutics, Health Re- sorts {Riviera). Rape. See Medicine, Forensic {Rape). Raphe.—A ridge or seam (Gr. pa4>rj, a seam), such as the middle line of the scrotum, tongue, and palate. Rapport. See Hypnotism {Experimental Phenomena, Rapport). RaSCh'S Sign.—uterine fluctuation, or the cyst-like sensation in the uterus detected during pregnancy by the bimanual examination. Rashes. — Eruptions, cutaneous or on mucous membranes, as seen in fevers, purpura, poisoning, etc. See Diphtheria {Antitoxin Treatment, After Effects); Drug Eruptions ; Glanders {Symptoms); Morphinomania and Al- lied Drug Habits {Antipyrin Rashes); Ovaries, Diseases of {Rashes after Ovariotomy); Peeg- NANCY, Affections and Complications {Cu- taneous Rashes); Typhoid Fever {Oeneral Symp- toms) ; Typhus Fever {Period of Advance). Raspberry Tongue. See Scarlet Fever {Symptomatology, Tongue). Rathke'S Gland.—Jacobson's organ in the nasal septum. Rathke'S Pouch.—A diverticulum in the pharynx of the embryo connected with the anterior part of the pituitary body ; the bursa pharyngea (of the adult) perhaps represents its remains. Rats. See Anthrax {in the Lower Animals); Plague {Dissemination by Rats). Ra.t-taiI Tendon, .^ee Aseptic Treat- ment of Wounds {Sutures). Ratzes. See Balneology {A^istria). Rauber's Layer.—The flat cells of the enveloping layer which cover the inner cell mass of the ovum during segmentation. Raw Meat. See Scurvy, Infantile {Treatrnent) ; Infant Feeding {Meat Foods, Raxv Meat Juice).