180 PNEUMONIA—CLINICAL SECTION carditis, or in hyaline or cloudy degeneration. Pericarditis may be the direct outcome of a bacterial infection, or may arise from an ex- tension of inflammation from the neighbouring plevira to the pericardium by contimiity. Endo- carditis takes its origin in a bacterial infection, which may be either primary (diplococcic or pnemonococcic) or secondary (streptococcic or staphylococcic). In the latter case the attack may assume the terrible characters of malignant or infective endocarditis, with early death. Andrew H. Smith says that pericarditis occurs in from 2 to 8 per cent of the cases of pneu- monia. At the Presbyterian Hospital, New York, it was made out during life in 6 out of 485 cases. He shows that it is often overlooked during life, the area of the pneumonic dulness including that of the pericardial effusion, and auscultation not being practised at the time when the pericardial friction sound might have been heard. At Vienna there were 27 instances of pericarditis among 5738 pneumonia patients, or one-half (0'5) per cent. Collateral hypercemia, gangrene of the lung, and abscess of the lufig must be mentioned as oc- casional complications intimately related to the primary hing affection. The first is brought about in part by the action of the right ven- tricle in driving the whole blood-stream through the non-consolidated parts of the lungs. "The second factor," says Dr. Andrew Smith, " is the aspiration of an excess of blood into the sound lung by the action of the muscles of respiration. The inspiratory effort, not resulting in adequate expansion of the crippled lung, produces a con- dition of negative pressure in the sound one, and blood flows into the latter in consequence." When the nutrient blood-vessels of the lung- become blocked from thrombosis or by embol- ism, and saprophytic or putrefactive bacteria are present, the serious condition known as pulmonary gangrene results. Its occurrence is denoted by the stench from the breath and the horribly offensive sputa which the patient brings up, with much suffering in some cases. These sputa will be found on microscopic examination to contain strands of yellow elastic tissue—a proof that the lung structure is breaking up. " In rare instances," writes Dr. Andrew Smith, " the affected portion of the lung undergoes a suppurative process. The surface has then a yellowish colour, and on section a purulent fluid exudes. The cells, resembling pus cells in all respects, not only fill the alveoli, but infiltrate the interalveolar walls. The pressure thus induced interferes with the nutrition of the septa, and may lead to their softening and breaking down. This may result in the forma- tion of abscesses; but the condition, if at all extreme, usually proves fatal before this point is attained. Abscess of the lung, as an event of pneumonia, occurs in between 1 and 2 per cent of all cases. The abscess may have firm walls, or may be only an irregular cavity in broken-down tissue. Abscesses vary in size from that of a pea to the dimensions of an entire lobe. They sometimes discharge through a In'onchus; at other times, when small, they become encapsulated and iindergo caseation." Traube first called attention to a change in the colour of the sputum to green as a diagnostic of suppuration in the lung. Jaundice is an occasional complication of pneumonia. It occurred in 30 out of 5738 cases at Vienna (0'6 per cent), in 23 out of 2616 cases at Stockholm (0"9 per cent), but in 65 out of 230 cases at Basle (28"3 per cent), according to Fismer. Probably the last-mentioned high per- centage included slight degrees of icterus, the result of hepatic congestion. Intense icterus is caused by a duodenal catarrh leading to ob- struction of the bile ducts. Lastly and rarely, there may be a dangerous form of non-obstruc- tive jaundice due to profound blood changes. G. Mante has shown that this variety depends on the haematolytic action of the Di2)lococcus pneumonice lanceolatus. Parotitis is a very rare but an exceedingly serious complication, which is met with in aged or debilitated patients. It is usually unilateral, according to Grisolle, and generally terminates in suppuration or even in gangrene. In the re- ports of the Vienna hospitals this inflammation of the parotid gland is mentioned only six times in 5738 cases. Jurgensen never saw this com- plication—a sufficient proof of its rarity. Testi in 1889 obtained the Diplococcus pneumoniae in pure cultures from the pus in a case of parotitis complicating acute croupous pneu- monia. Meningitis may be caused by the Diplococcus pneumonia; directly, or — as pointed out by Jurgensen — the presence of croupous pneu- monia is a powerful predisponent to epidemic cerebro-spinal meningitis. Of course, when Jur- gensen wrote, the Diplococcus intracellularis men- ingitidis of Weichselbaum had not been isolated. The truth seems to be that the meningeal diplo- coccus undoubtedly sometimes gives rise to a pneumonia, while the pneumonic diplococcus with equal certainty may light up a meningitis. Among other complications may be named otitis media, the purulent form of which may reinfect the lung; thrombosis of the femoral vein, usually the left; and various paralyses (including peripheral neuritis), which are, how- ever, infrequent. Diarrhoea is also occasionally observed. The rarer sequelae of pneumonia are : (1) Abscess of the lung; (2) pulmonary gan- grene, either circvimscribed or diffuse; (3) caseation, or "cheesy infiltration," in which a secondary tubercular infection often plays an important part; and (4) fibrosis, or fibroid induration of the lung (chronic interstitial pneu- monia, the "cirrhosis of the lung" of Sir Dominic Corrigan).