PEEGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—HEMORRHAGE 284 hsemorrhage. In missed abortion, the pre- viously existing subjective symptoms of preg- nancy disappear, and are replaced by various ill-defined phenomena, the result of the absoi-p- tion of ptomaines from the dead ovum. These are the jDrincipal diagnostic phenomena to be looked for in any case of htemorrhage during the first three months of pregnancy. It may be of use to sum them up in their re- lationship to the various causes of hcemorrhage. A uterus corresponding in size to the period of pregnancy; a varying amount of haemor- rhage and pain, with a corresponding degree of collapse; widening of the cervix at the cervico-vaginal junction ; and a slightly patulous condition of the external os, are suggestive of threatened abortion. Marked ballooning of the cervical canal; closure of the os externum, which has a thin parchment-like edge; and a varying amount of dark, perhaps putrid discharge, are indicative of cervical abortion. The expulsion of a portion of the ovum; slight diminution in size of the uterus; a patulous cervical canal; and a profuse dark discharge, or even a sharp haemorrhage, are indicative of incomplete abortion. The expulsion of the entire ovum ; a trumpet- shaped condition of the cervix; a marked diminution in size of the uterus; and the gradual diminution and final disappearance of all discharge, are indicative of complete abortion. A cessation of development, or a gradual diminution in size of the uterus; a dark hsemorrhagic discharge, which may be foetid; disappearance of the subjective and objective symptoms of pregnancy, and general ill-health on the part of the patient, are suggestive of missed abortion. The existence of an ovoid pulsating tumour at one side of the uterus; a history of preg- nancy ; an enlarged uterus, corresponding in size to, or slightly smaller than, the date of pregnancy accounts for ; slight irregular htemor- rhages; and perhaps the expulsion of a decidua in which no trace of chorionic villi or amnion can be found, are suggestive of an unruptured extra-uterine pregnancy. A varying degree of hsemorrhage; the ex- pulsion of a decidua in which no trace of chorion or amnion can be found; considerable pain; collapse out of projjortion to the amount of external haemorrhage; and perhaps the dis- appearance of a previously discovered pelvic tumour, with the formation of a new tumour in Douglas' pouch, are suggestive of a ruptured extra-uterine pregnancy. Marked increase in size of the uterus, out of proportion to the period of pregnancy; a profuse watery blood-stained discharge, perhaps containing cysts; and crampy pains, are in- dicative of myxoma chorii. B. HEMORRHAGES OCCURRING DUR- ING THE SECOND THREE MONTHS Two varieties of haemorrhage are met with during the second three months of preg- nancy :— I. Heemorrhage due to detachment of the placenta. II. Haemorrhage due to extra-uterine preg- nancy. I. HiEMORRHAGB DUB TO DETACHMENT OF THE Placenta Haemorrhages due to detachment of the placenta, occurring during the second three months of pregnancy, occupy an intermediate position between abortion and accidental and unavoidable haemorrhages. With the exception of a small proportion of cases which are due to degeneration of the ovum, we find that, while pathologically they can be classified in the same manner as can the haemorrhages of the last four months, clinically they must be treated as those of the first three. The reason of this is obvious. In the four last months of pregnancy it is always possible to distinguish clinically between the two great classes of placental insertion j in the second three months of pregnancy it is not possible to do so, although pathologically the two classes occur. Consequently, while in the four last months we can diagnose exactly the nature of the case, and treat it accordingly in the most suitable manner, in the second three months all we can do is to recognise that the patient is bleeding, and that the haemor- rhage is either so trifling as only to require palliative treatment, or so serious as to demand more radical measures. Etiology.—As has been pointed out above, the haemorrhage may come from a placenta which is normal in position, or from one which is praevia. The distinction between the two, which cannot be made prior to the expulsion of the ovum, can be made in most cases sub- sequently. This is done by noting the relation- ship of the opening in the membranes, through which the foetus was expelled, to the placenta, if there is such an opening. If the opening is quite close to the placenta, or even through it, it shows that the placenta must have been implanted quite close to, or right over, the os. In some of these cases, however, when the ovum is expelled spontaneously, it is un- ruptured ; while in those cases in which it has to be removed, the membranes become so torn that it is impossible to determine the above relationship. Even in the cases in which the placenta is certainly praevia, it is doubtful whether the situation is the cause of its detach- ment, or whether rather, the latter is not really due to such similar causes as act in the case of a normally seated placenta,—the fact that