PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 53 in the body, and if the energy given off as they undergo this change can be measured outside the body, their energy value as foods can be ascertained. Determination of Energy Value.—This is done by burning a definite quantity of the material and finding how many degrees a definite quantity of water is heated. This gives the energy in heat units, and, by Joule's law, it can be con- verted into the equivalent for any other kind of energy, such as mechanical work. It is known that the energy required to heat one kilogramme of water through one degree Centigrade is sufficient to raise 423 kilograms of matter to the height of one metre against the force of gravity, and thus, if the energy value of any material as a producer of heat is known in heat units—kilogram degrees or Calories— by multiplying by 423 we get the value in work units—kilogram metres (kgms.). The apparatus used for ascertaining the heat produced by the combustion of material is called a calorimeter. Many different forms are in use, but the object in the water calorimeter is to secure that all the heat is used in raising the temperature of a known volume of water. The value of the three great proximate prin- ciples of the food must be considered in detail. 1. Proteins.—The chemistry of these bodies has been already considered (vol. vii. p. 490). They are the " chief substances" of living matter, forming about 80 or 90 per cent of its dry residue. The molecule is one of great com- plexity, and contains C, H, 0, N, S, and some- times P. and Fe. It is from the proteins of the food alone that the nitrogen and sulphur required in the con- struction and repair of the living tissues are obtained. The carbon and hydrogen required are also contained in these substances; and, as will be presently shown, they have a consider- able energy value. Hence Proteins form the essential organic constituents of the food. Theo- retically it should be perfectly possible for an animal to live on proteins alone, with a suitable addition of water and salts. In estimating the actual energy value of proteins in the body a difficulty arises in the fact that, instead of being decomposed to CO,,, HgO, NHg, SO3, as they are during combustion in the calorimeter, in the body the nitrogenoiis part is not broken down further than to urea— CO(NH2)2, 3 grms. of protein yielding 1 grm. of urea. If the energy value of the complete combustion of a definite amount of proteins is first ascertained, and then the energy value of the amount of iirea derived from the same amount of protein determined, by subtracting the latter from the former, the energy value of proteins in their decomposition in the body is found (see p. 54). The combustion of 1 grm. of protein to urea yields 4'1 Calories of Energy. 2. Sclero-proteins.—In studying the chemistry of the formed material of the various protecting, supporting, and connecting tissues, these sub- stances have been considered (see vol. vii. p. 492). Keratin, elastin, and mucin seem to be of no importance as articles of food. If taken in the food they pass through the alimentary canal practically unchanged. While raw collagen seems also to be of little use, gelatin, formed by boiling collagen, has a certain value. Although it cannot take the place of proteins, because it cannot be used for building up the living tissues of the body, it is nevertheless decomposed into urea, and in de- composing it yields the same amount of energy as the proteins. It has, therefore, a definite though restricted value as a food-stuff. 3. Fats.—The chemistry of the fats has already been considered (vol. vii. p. 498). From the fact that they contain so little oxygen in proportion to their carbon and hydrogen, a large amount of energy is liberated in their combustion, and therefore they have a high energy value as food-stuffs. One gramme of fat yields twice as much energy as the same amount of protein or carbohydrate. The combustion of 1 gramme of fat yields 9'3 Calories of Energy. 4. Carbohydrates. — The carbohydrates — starches and sugars—form a group of bodies which do not occur largely in animals, but are abundant constituents of plants. They contain carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, the carbon atoms of the molecule usually numbering six or some multiple of six, and the hydrogen and oxygen being in the same proportions in which they occur in water. They are aldoses or ketoses and derivations from these, of the hexatomic alcohol, CgH^^Og (p. 93). A group of carbohydrates having five carbon atoms, and hence called Pentoses, have been found in the animal body, but they are of minor importance. The simplest carbohydrates are the monosac- charids, of which dextrose, the aldose of mannite, is the most important. Dextrose is the sugar of the animal body. It has been called glucose, grape sugar, and blood sugar. Closely allied to dextrose in chemical com- position is the ketose Icevidose, a sugar which, instead of rotating the plane of polarised light to the right, rotates it to the left, but which in other respects behaves like dextrose. It occurs in certain plants, and in the foetus and foetal fluids of certain animals. The other monosaccharid of importance is galactose, a sugar produced by the splitting of milk sugar. These monosaccharids, when boiled with a solu- tion of cupric acetate in acetic acid (Barfoed's solution), are oxidised, taking oxygen from the cupric salt and reducing it to the cuprous state. When boiled with caustic potash, they, along