PULSE, THE 429 Prognosis in Croupous Pneumonia. —In croup- ous pneumonia the main thing to note with regard to prognosis is that in favourable cases the pulse pressure increases very shortly after the crisis occurs. The pulse then slows, and Fig. 124.- -Pulse in croupous pneumonia shortly after the crisis in a favourable case the same patient whose pulse is shown in Fig. 122.) the youthful type of irregularity appears (Fig. 124). This slow, irregular pulse may continue for many weeks during convalescence. In unfavourable cases the pulse-tracing indi- cates a falling pressure and becomes very rapid. The pulse-waves are of un- equal size, and the dicrotic wave may disappear before death (Fig. 125). The significance of pulse irregularity in relation to the prognosis of croupous pneu- monia is an interesting matter. An elderly patient may habitually exhibit an irregular pulse; he takes pneumonia and be- comes feverish. Under such conditions, accord- ing to Mackenzie, his pulse should become more regular; if it does not tend to do so the prog- nosis is bad. Another of Mackenzie's observa- the youngest patient who showed such a pulse was a child two years old, and it was at the onset of an attack of apical lobar pneumonia (Fig. 127). The temperature was 102°, and the pulse 130 per minute, but the child was not much distressed. In a few days, after a good crisis, convalescence set in, and the pulse became slow and regular. The cause of the joeculiar heart-rhythm was inexplicable, but it did not bear the same evil signi- ficance as in Dr. Mackenzie's cases. II. The Pulse in Broncho-pneumonia.—Some- times in infants under one year of age, suffering from this disease, a dicrotic pulse may be found when the temperature is high. Dicrotism in (From Fig. 126.—Pulse of had prorjnosis in croupous pneumonia in the adult, before the crisis. This type of pulse, the occurrence of irregularity in the early stage of the disease, is generally of fatal significance. the febrile pulse of young babies is most unusual, and the fact that it is found in broncho-pneumonia supports the belief that the blood pressure tends to fall unusually low in this disease. Observations with the sphyg- mometer seem to show that the temporary initial rise of pressure some- times noticed in cases of croupous pneumonia does not occur in broncho- pneumonia. The pulse- curve in this disease— except in infants under a year of age, for the reasons already mentioned (see p. 405)—invari- ably indicates low pressure. The Type of Pulse-curve iii the Early Stages of Broncho-pneumonia.—The kind of sphygmogram Fig. 125.—Pulse in croupous pneumonia in an unfavourable case. (Child set. 2J years With temp. , pulse 160, resp. 84.) tions is of great practical importance. He states that in young adults suffering from lobar pneumonia with a temperature of 103° or over, the occurrence of pulse irregularity before the crisis is an invariably fatal sign. In these cases the pulse is a very rapid one, and the irregularity is either of the so-called " false ventricular" or " false auricular" type (Fig. 126). The "prema- ture systole" may only occur at long intervals. In adults Mackenzie has also noted the fatal significance of a pulse which, shortly after the initial rigor, exhibits an absence of the dicrotic wave. A pulse which shows the " premature systole " type of irregularity is, as already stated, exces- sively rare in children, yet, curiously enough, Fig. 127.—The same type of pulse as shown in Fig. 126, but occurring in a child a;t. 2 years with a mild apical pneumonia ; had no evil significance. obtained in the early stages is more markedly di- crotic than in the croupous variety (Fig. 128). In cases which are going on to a favourable termin- ation the pulse pressure shows indications of in- creasing, the pulse slows, and a prolongation of the diastolic periods of some of the curves is noted.