274 PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—OTHER AFFECTIONS AND COMPLICATIONS Blood Changes 277 Syphilis 277 Pulmonary Disturbances . . .277 Renal Affections . . . .278 Cutaneous Rashes . . . .279 Specific Fevers . . . . .279 Osseous Changes .... 279 Vesical and Mental Complications . 280 The affections and accidental complications of pregnancy will naturally include: (A) those which can be distinctly traced to the presence of the gestation, and which may be one of three classes : (a) Direct results of sympathetic irrita- tion, as sickness ; neuroses, or pathological ex- aggerations of the physiological conditions of pregnancy; Mechanical results of pressure, as from some uterine displacement; (y) Complex, i.e. partly neurotic, partly mechanical, and partly obscure nutrition changes produced by the pregnant state. (B) Those which may arise apart from preg- nancy or are grafted upon or are independent of it, but which seriously interfere in many cases with its normal course, e.g. the specific fevers. It is obviously impossible to classify each symptom or disease under one of the above headings, and it has been deemed preferable to give them in detail under the various "systems" involved. I. The Nervous System.—Pregnancy intensi- fies the susceptibility of the nervous system; all parts of it are liable to be affected. Thus, in considering the special senses we may meet with amblyopia (apart from nephritis), hemera- lopia, deafness, perversion of taste and smell, and loss of one or both. In the psychic state we meet with uncertainty of temper, melancholia, and insomnia. The motor tracts are rarely in- volved. Among vaso motor disturbances there occur neuralgias, vertigo, syncope, local anaes- thesia, paresis. There are also the reflex symptoms of hiccough and cough. All of these complications are as a rule less noticeable during the second half of pregnancy than during the earlier portion. Locomotor ataxy, progressive muscular atro]phy, and general paralysis of the insane may occasionally complicate pregnancy, but so far as can be ascertained from the few cases reported nothing abnormal in the course of the gestation has been observed. Convulsions may be due to epilepsy, hysteria, or albuminuria {see "Eclampsia" and "Neph- ritis "). Epileptic seizures are not attended by any interference with the course of pregnancy. It is said that the fits may arise for the first time during this condition, ljut this is doubtful; there is no albuminuria. Among the more important instances of para- lysis are paraplegia, hemiplegia, and paralysis of the face and of the nerves of special sense. Many of these are complicated by albuminuria. Under these conditions it is generally advisable, if the albumin does not disappear with ordinary treatment, to induce labour. On the other hand, all of them may be due to affections un- accompanied by albuminuria, such as in cerebral and spinal haemorrhages. Chorea is a grave complication. In the majority of cases the disease existed during childhood or at puberty. It is usually bilateral. Primigravidae appear to be much more fre- quently attacked than multiparas. It does not, as a rule, complicate subsequent pregnancies. Buist places the mortality very high, one in five proving fatal. In addition to this there is certainly a tendency to a permanent resulting disturbance. None of the usual drugs appear to have much eff"ect in ameliorating the condition, and the obvious treatment in a large number of cases, especially if the movements are tending to increase, is artificial interruption of the pregnancy. Tetany (tetanilla) is a tonic, usually painful spasm, beginning in and often limited to the muscles of the extremities, chiefly the hands. It is always symmetrical. No loss of conscious- ness has been observed. The attacks are "in- termittent and of short duration (five to fifteen minutes) " ; they may recur daily. The spasms are preceded by tingling or numbness in the parts presently to be affected, and the same sensations follow the relaxation of the spasm. It is commoner in delicate than in robust women. There is no pyrexia, and it may be looked upon as a slight ailment tending always to spontaneous recovery. Tetanus is as rare as tetany. " The spasm begins in the muscles of the face and neck (trismus) and advances centrifugally, with opisthotonos." The spasm is constant, and subject to exacerbations. The temperature is usually raised, and the disease practically always terminates fatally. Robust patients are most frequently attacked. Both of these conditions must be diagnosed from hysteria and spinal meningitis. II. Digestive and Sympathetic Disturbances. ■—A certain amount of nausea and vomiting of a glairy, frothy material, especially in the early morning on first assuming the upright position, is the rule in the early months of pregnancy. The nausea has been compared to sea-sickness. This usually ceases as the uterus rises out of the pelvis, and remains absent for the remainder of the gestation period. In some cases the vomiting of at least one meal a day may persist throughout the nine months without any bad con- stitutional effect arising beyond slight wasting. Under certain conditions, fortunately rarely, graver symptoms arise, all nourishment is re- jected, and as a consequence marked emaciation sets in, the aspect of the patient becomes pinched and anxious, the tongue dry and brown ; the temperature and pulse gradually rise, and she may gradually pass into a state of delirium and