PLAGUE 115 The epitrochlear and popliteal glands are occasionally affected, but nearly always in association with buboes elsewhere. As has already been stated, the groin is the commonest site for the bubo, then come in order of fre- quency the axilla, neck (cervical, parotid, and submaxillary glands), epitrochlear and popliteal glands. This probably depends on the mode of entry of the disease into the body, i.e. through abraded skin surfaces, for there is a relation between the extent of the area of skin surface draining into the various sets of glands and the frequency with which these glands are affected, as has already been described. Frequently more than one region of the body shows buboes, and in each region affected there is usually more than one gland implicated. In this disease some part or other of the lymphatic system is always affected, though often this cannot be discovered until a post- mortem examination has been made. In the bubonic type the bubo is always evident, though in the rarer cases of pelvic buboes the affected glands may be overlooked unless due care be taken. The oedema which is always present in the periglandular tissues may extend over a wide area, causing considerable swelling over the thighs and lower part of the abdomen or over the sternum and shoulder blades. The trachea and larynx may be pressed upon, causing dyspnoea. Haemorrhages may discolour the skin over a considerable area. As the degree of coma of the patient increases, the pain produced on palpation may not be so apparent, though, even where considerable coma is present, palpation of the bubo will produce evident pain and expostulation, or it may be merely a groan. If the patient lives, the buboes resolve or suppurate, and this is frequently very pro- longed. Suppuration usually occurs in the second week of the disease; sometimes it may be delayed for a considerable time. The whole gland or glands and surrounding tissues may slough en masse, leaving a large deep ulcer, which finally granulates up. Often a very obstinate sinus persists for a long time. Cases sometimes occur where gland after gland in different parts of the body becomes involved and breaks down, the process going on for several months, and occasionally cases occur where glands break down after discharge from hospital; these are rare, but one or two such cases occurred in Cape Town during the recent epidemic. The temperature has sometimes by the second day attained its maximum; at other times it rises gradually till the third or fourth day, when it frequently falls a little, and in mild cases it begins to descend to the normal. Generally, however, the temperature rises again till the fifth or seventh day, when it descends by lysis to normal. This may be followed by an intermittent fever caused by septic absorp- tion. A fresh elevation in temperature may occur from fresh glands becoming involved, or from secondary pneumonia. Frequently before death the temperature may attain a great height, such as 108° F. or even higher, and continue rising after death to over 110° F. when taken in the rectum. Sometimes the temperature just before death is subnormal. Respiratory System.—The respirations are increased, being usually thirty to forty per minute. Besides plague pneumonia, which may be primary or secondary, and which is described later, bronchitic symptoms and oedema of the lung may supervene. Lung complica- tions in the bubonic type vary in frequency in the different epidemics. Circulatory System.—In the early stages of the disease the pulse is full and dicrotic. Even in very mild cases the rapidity of the pulse is increased and may afford considerable diagnostic assistance in abnormal cases. It may also give information that the patient's condition is more serious than would otherwise be imagined. Patients very ill, and sometimes within a few hours of death, may be able to walk about; examination of the pulse at once reveals their critical condition. The heart may become dilated, the apex beat may be diffused, and murmurs may be audible at the apex and in the pulmonary area. There is great tendency to heart failure in this disease, and it may come on very suddenly without any warning. There is generally leucocytosis and sometimes diminution in the number of red blood corpuscles. Alimentary System.—The tongue is usually coated at first and has an appearance resem- bling chalk or mother-of-pearl; the edges are clean and red. Later the tongue becomes dry and cracked and of a brown colour. It is not uncommon for patients to die with quite a moist tongue. The teeth, lips, and nostrils become crusted, and the lips dry and shrivelled. Nausea and vomiting are common at the onset and for the first day or two of the disease. Constipation is common at the beginning, followed by diarrhoea, the stools sometimes con- taining blood. There may be abdominal tender- ness and distension. Thirst is usually a marked symptom. The liver and spleen are enlarged and are usually tender, particularly the spleen. The Urinary System.—The secretion of urine is diminished and may be suppressed, associated with lumbar pains. Retention of urine is not imcommon, and the catheter may have to be employed. The urine is of a dark coloui-, strongly acid, high specific gravity, and contains urates and sometimes true and nucleo-albumin. Microscopically, granular, hyaline, and rarely fatty tube casts may be found, together with