408 PULSE, THE may be too feeble to show an elevation in the sphygmogram. The following is Cushny's description of what happens in animals :— The auricular contractions occur at regular intervals, and the ventricles usually respond. But occasionally the impulse emitted from the Fia. 57.—The "intermission" is less tlian two pulse-intervals (Cushny's classification). auricle in regular course is not followed by a ventricular contraction. For some reason the ventricle does tiot contract, and thus a whole heart-beat is entirely missed out. The ventricle contracts in response to the next auricular im- pulse, but the cause of the intermission in this case lies with the ventricle itself, and not with the auricle, which sent down its impulse as usual. When this occurs, then, we may correctly describe it as a " true ventricular intermission." The writer has only seen one tracing where this form of pulse irregularity could actually be shown to occur. He obtained it from Dr. Mackenzie of Burnley, who regards it as an almost unique example of the so-called true ventricular intermission (Fig. 58). Mackenzie believes that in the vast majority of intermittent pulses in adults, the ventricle really makes a second attempt to con- tract during the long pause, but that the effect II. False ventricular intermissions, in which the pause is equal to two pulse-intervals, but it is often interrupted by a slight elevation. In every case a first heart sound is to be heard during the intermission. In this form, as in that just described, the auricle still con- tracts at regular in- tervals, and often the ventricle follows suit in the proper way. But sometimes the ventricle is un- duly irritable, and is stimulated to con- tract from other causes than an auri- cular impulse. Therefore, after having given its usual contraction in response to the auricle, it goes off a second time during the period in which it should be resting and preparing to receive the next stimulus from the auricle. In doing so it exhausts itself, and is unable to Fig. 59.—"False ventricular intermission." The "intermission" is equal to two pulse-intervals, but an elevation {premature systole) occurs during the pause. (Cushny's classification.) Fig. 58.—"True ventricular intermission." The lower tracing is from the jugular vein, and gives the auricular movements (a = auricular systole). (Cushny's classification.) on the circulation is not made manifest at the radial artery. In the true intermission re- ferred to, it is seen that the ventricle did not always respond to the auricular stimulation. A simultaneous tracing obtained from the internal jugular vein recorded the auricular movements. The venous tracing is somewhat difficult to interpret, but there is no doubt that the auricle contracts twice or thrice for each ventricular beat. contract when the auricular impulse descends. The diastolic period is therefore prolonged until the next auricular beat occurs (Figs. 59 and 60.) III. False auricular iyitermissions, in which the pause is shorter than two pulse-intervals. There is a slight elevation in the tracing during the intermis- sion, and the stetho- scope reveals a first heart sound very soon after the last regular pulse elevation. This type of irregu- lar pulse is very similar to the false ventricu- lar intermission, but according to Cushny measurement in this case shows that the full beat and the premature beat are of shorter duration than two ordinary pulse-intervals. By this means he would diag- nose the occurrence of this variety in man. It is probable that the false ventricular intermission is commonly mistaken for the auricular form, and measurement would not seem to be a reli- able method of distinguishing the one variety from the other. The only certain method, as Mackenzie points out, is to obtain a record of