19 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES contracting muscle of the heart, and it is only when the compression is removed in diastole that blood rushes into them. This helps to dilate the ventricles. The interpretation of the various details of the cardiogram is now rendered more easy. The ventricles, still full of blood, are suddenly pressed against the chest wall in systole. As the blood escapes into the arteries they press with less force, and hence the sudden slight downstroke (Fig. 123, h to c). But, so long as the ventricles are contracted, the apex is kept tilted forward, and hence the horizontal plateau is maintained (c to d). The pressure of the apex disappears as the ventricles relax (e). Sounds of the Heart.—On listening in the region of the heart, a pair of sounds may be heard with each cardiac cycle, followed by a somewhat prolonged silence. These are known respectively as the First and Second Sounds of the Heart (Fig. 124). By placing a finger on the cardiac impulse while listening to these sounds it is easy to determine that the iirst sound occurs synchro- nously with the cardiac impulse—i.e. synchro- nously with the ventricular contraction. It develops suddenly, and dies away more slowly. In character it is dull and rumbling, and may be imitated by pronouncing the syllable liib. In pitch it is lower than the second sound. The second sound is heard at the moment of venti-icular diastole. Its exact time in the cardiac cycle has been determined by recording it on the cardiac tracing by means of a micro- phone. It develops suddenly and dies away suddenly. It is a clearer, sharper, and higher- pitched sound than the first. It may be imitated by pronouncing the syllable dupp. According to the part of the chest upon which the ear is placed, these sounds vary in intensity. Over the apical region the first sound is louder and more accentuated; over the base the second sound is more distinctly heard. The Cause of the Second Sound is simple. At the moment of ventricular diastole, when this sound develops, the only occurrence which is capable of producing a sound is the sudden stretching of the semilunar valves by the high arterial pressure above them and the low intra- ventricular pressure below them. The high arterial pressure comes on them suddenly like the blow of a drum-stick on a drum-head, and, by setting the valves in vibration, produces the sound. Aortic and Pulmonary Areas.—The second sound has thus a dual origin—from the aortic valve and from the pulmonary valve; and it is possible by listening in suitable positions to distinguish the character of each of these. The aortic valve is placed behind the sternum at the level of the lower border of the third costal cartilage. But it is deeply situated. The aorta, passing upwards and forwards, lies in close relationship to the chest wall at the junction of the right side of the sternum and the right second costal cartilage. The sound produced by the valve is conducted up the aorta, and may be heard best in this " aortic area." On the other hand, the pulmonary valve lies in close relationship to the anterior chest wall—being covered only by the anterior border of the left lung—close to the edge of the sternum in the second left interspace. The pulmonary element of the second sound may best be heard here. The Cause of the First Soimd is by no means so simple. When it is heard, two changes are taking place in the heart, either of which would produce a sound. \st. The muscular wall of the ventricles is contracting. 2nd. The stretching of the auriculo-ventricular valves, \st. That the first factor plays an important part in the production of the first sound is proved by rapidly cutting out the heart of an animal, and while it is still beating—but with- out any blood passing through it to stretch the valves — listening to the organ with a stethoscope. With each beat the lub sound is distinctly heard. Apparently the wave of contraction, passing along the muscular fibres of the heart, sets up vibrations, and when these are conducted to the ear the external meatus picks out the vibration corresponding to its fundamental note, and thus produces the characters of the sound. 27id. The auriculo-ventricular valves are being closed and subjected on the one side to the high ventricular pressure and on the other to the low auricular pressure. If the valves be destroyed or diseased the characters of the first sound are materially altered, or the sound may be entirely masked by a continuous musical sound—a murmur. Again, it has been maintained that a trained ear can pick out in the first sound the note corresponding to the valvular vibration. The idea that the impulse of the heart against the chest wall plays a part in the production of this sound is based upon the fallacious idea that the heart " hits " the chest wall. All that it does is to press more firmly against it. Mitral and Tricuspid Areas.—On account of the part played by the valves in the production of the first sound, it may be considered to be double in nature—partly due to the mitral valve, partly to the tricuspid. The mitral valve element may best be heard not over the area of the mitral valve—which lies very deep in the thorax—but over the apex of the heart, as at this situation the left ventricle, in which the valve lies, comes nearest to the thoracic wall and conducts the sound thither. The