KHEUMATISM IN CHILDREN 553 perature may daily reach 104° Fahr., but be- yond causing occasional feelings of discomfort when high, the continued pyrexia seems in no way detrimental to the child. The only ex- planation of such a pyrexia would seem to be that here the rheumatic poison, whatever it may be, has made a profound impression upon the cerebral centres, and the delicate heat- regulating machinery has been thrown out of gear. Treatment has little or no effect upon the disorder, and time alone brings about the restoration of the calorific balance. Tonsillitis is a very frequent symptom of rheumatism in children, especially at the onset of an attack. The frequency with which it occurs before any other symptom has led to the suggestion from the upholders of the microbic origin of the complaint, that the tonsils are often possibly the points of entrance of the poison into the system. The tonsillitis is seldom of any great severity, and a suppura- tive rheumatic tonsillitis is exceedingly rare in children. The temperature bears some relation to the degree of tonsillitis, being generally higher the more the latter is marked. In very exceptional instances cases of endocarditis have been noted where the only evidence of rheumat- ism has been tonsillitis. This should lead to a careful and repeated examination of the heart in all cases of tonsillitis of uncertain origin. There is nothing distinctive, however, in the outward appearances of rheumatic tciisillitis, and a case can only be pronounced rheumatic with any precision when other evidences of rheumatism are present. Besides ushering in acute attacks, tonsillitis often occurs in rheu- matic children in the intervals between them. Such tonsillitis is often accompanied by slight anaemia and sweating on the slightest exertion. Such symptoms should be regarded as danger signals, and lead to a strict supervision of the child. It may well be, too, that repeated tonsillitis is evidence of the rheumatic diathesis, where there has been a total absence of the more definite signs of the complaint. Pneumonia.—This is so infrequent in associa- tion with recent and active signs of rheumatism in children, as to render it doubtful if its occurrence has any direct causal relation with the rheumatic process. In the later stages of heart disease, however, it is not uncommon to find signs of consolidation, along with pleurisy, at the left base of the hmg. The symptoms and course of such consolidations are generally different from those of a typical pneumonia, and are usually preceded by the signs of pul- monary congestion and oedema in the affected lung. Pleurisy. — In contra - distinction to pneu- monia, pleurisy is very common in the rheumat- ism of children, and may be the only evidence of the complaint. In exceptional instances it is the result of the direct extension of inflam- mation from the pericardium. The usual signs of it are pain over the lower ribs, and not unfrequently a pleural rub can be heard on ausculation. When directly due to the rheu- matic process it is generally of the dry and plastic variety, and is very seldom accompanied by any noticeable amount of fluid in the pleural sac. Where it occurs, however, in the later stages of heart disease, along with consolidation of the lung, the amount of fluid poured out into the pleura may be considerable, and aspiration is often necessary to relieve the enfeebled and failing heart. An overwhelming proportion of such cases occur on the left side, but a satisfactory reason for this is still to be found. Peritonitis.—It cannot be claimed that the connection between rheumatism and any form of peritonitis has been established with any exactitude. Any case where fibrous nodules have been discovered in the peritoneum, as with the pleura and pericardium, has yet to be noted. At the present day there is a tendency, perhaps a growing one, on the part of certain authorities to ascribe some cases of appendicitis to a rheumatic origin. But for appendicitis to develop in the course of acute rheumatism, or for rheumatic symptoms to develop during an attack of appendicitis, must be events of ex- treme rarity, and such cases are certainly not greater in number than mere coincidence could account for. The only evidence usually forth- coming for associating such cases of appendicitis with a rheumatic origin is the effect produced by salicylates upon the course of the abdominal complaint. These effects are mainly shown in the reduction of temperature, and not in the direction of any curtailing the course of the disease. But salicylates influence the tempera- ture in many diseases apart from those of rheu- matic origin, and until further evidence is adducible beyond that furnished by their ad- ministration, the connection between appendi- citis and rheumatism must be held to exist on an extremely feeble basis. Nervous Affections.—So-called " cerebral rheu- matism " or " rheumatic hyperpyrexia" is almost unknown in children, and the reality of a rheumatic meningitis, on which the hyper- pyrexia was formerly supposed to depend, has yet to be proven by the publication of a single authentic case. Rheumatic children are very subject to headaches. These are often asso- ciated with anjemia, but in some cases Dr. Still thinks the headaches have a more direct relation to the rheumatic poison. Goodhart, Graham Little, and several other authorities find a strong connection between night-terrors and rheumatism, and Dr. Still not only agrees with this, but thinks day-terrors, somnambulism, somniloquence, habit-spasm, and lienteric diar- rhoea, are often associated with the same com- plaint. All these last disorders have probably