EEFRACTION 493 but only a virtual one, for when placed in a beam of light they make it spread out as if coming from the virtual focus P' (Fig. 6). It will be seen that the virtual focus of a concave < 1 i V 3 ■2 c « P. •g,a Fig. 6.—A distributing lens : focal length negative. lens lies on the incident side of the lens. It is for this reason the focal length (/) is reckoned negative. Conjugate Foci.—When divergent rays, such as proceed from a source at a finite distance, fall upon a convex lens, part of the converging power of the lens is taken up in overcoming the divergency of the incident light, leaving only the remainder to converge the emergent light. But lessened convergence of the emergent light means greater distance of its focus from the lens. Hence, though the lens is just as strong as the lens in Fig. 5, the focus lies farther from the lens than the principal focus in Fig. 5. In such case the focus of origin and the focus of destination are called "conjugate foci," because they are so yoked together that when one is made to approach the lens the other recedes from it. The reason of this is very simple,— the more the point of origin approaches the lens the greater is the divergence of the inci- dent light, and the greater proportion, therefore, of the power of the lens is used up to overcome that divergency, leaving only the residuum of power to effect the convergence of the emergent light. To give an example, let us suppose the lens in question to possess four units (dioptres) of converging power. That means that it con- verges parallel light to a focus a quarter of a metre away from itself. Let us replace the incident beam of parallel light by one of diver- gent light from a point half a metre away. Such incident light arrives at the lens with a divergency of two dioptres. It therefore ap- propriates two dioptres of power from the lens to overcome its incident divergency, leaving two others to effect the convergency of the emergent light. Since the power of the lens is in this instance divided into two equal parts, it is evident that the two foci (of origin and destination) will be equidistant from the lens, and that each will lie twice as far from it as the principal focus. Had the lens been one of 5D instead of 4D, it would retain 3D of con- verging power, since 2D from 5D leaves 3D, and the conjugate focus of the emergent light would be found one-third of a metre away from the lens. This is illustrated in the figure. If, on the other hand, the incident light be made to fall in an already converging condition upon the same lens, the whole power of the lens is available to add to the already existing convergency. Thus light with 3D of conver- gency, incident on a -f- 5D lens, would, hut for the interposition of the lens, have been collected to a focus a third of a metre farther on. When a lens is interposed, however, though the inci- dent light is still directed towards that focus, it becomes a virtual focus, since the light does not really arrive there, being gathered up by the lens to a real focus at a nearer point. If the lens be one of -f 5D, it adds the whole of its 5D to the 3D already possessed by the inci- dent beam, so the light leaves it with a con- vergency of 8D. The conjugate focus, there- fore, will be \ metre from the lens, for we still call them conjugate foci, though one is virtual and the other real. They both lie on the same side of the lens, and the nearer one is brought to the lens the nearer comes the other. It has been observed that conjugate foci, of whatever kind, always move in the same direction. Images.—So far we have supposed the inci- dent light to proceed from a point. But in nature luminous points do not exist except in groups. The surface of any object may be re- garded as composed of an indefinite number of points side by side ; and since, when a lens is brought into play, each has its conjugate focus, or point-image, all of these also lie side by side, so as to form a corresponding group, or imiage of the object, which may, however, be real or virtual, just as we have already con- sidered. The relative size of image and object follows the very simple rule that it is directly pro- portionate to the distance of each from the lens. When an image lies on the opposite side of a lens from the object, it is always inverted; when on the same side it is always erect. Cylindrical lenses differ from spherical in that they are curved in one direction only, but like them they are divided into two classes of convex and concave. The shape of a convex cylinder is as though a small circular piece were sliced ofi^ the surface of a column or solid cylinder of glass. One meridian of the lens, therefore, answering to the long axis of the column, has no refracting power, and is called the "axis" of the lens. The meridian at right angles to the axis has the maximum refracting power, and is that by which the cylinder is numerated. Thus a cylinder having its maxi- mum curvature equal to the all-round curvature of a +ll> spherical lens is a -|-ID Cyl. Its focal length is 1 metre, but the light is focussed into a line instead of into a point. The extremities of the axis are usually de- noted by tiny scratches in the glass, but they might with advantage be further indicated by two notches in the metal rim of the lens, so as to utilise the surgeon's sense of touch, according