417 PULSE, THE during which the vagus control is overbalanced. This is what happens during febrile conditions, and when the temperature falls to normal the vagus reasserts its control, and the characteristic retardation in some of the beats is observed. When a child is kept resting in bed the vagus soon begins to acquire an increased power over cases of laboured and rapid breathing the pulse variations are of a similar character. T'he Effects of Deep Insjnration on the Pulse. —It has been already stated that it is the soft, low-pressure pulse which shows the greatest variations with respiration. The effects of forced inspiration on a pulse of this character are to quicken the beats and render the curves more dicrotic. During the time of in- spiration, and especially when the breath is held, the pulse- curves often be- come smaller and are of shorter duration. During expiration the curves become larger, and are generally more prolonged {see Fig. 86). The Effects of Deep Expiration on the Pulse. —Holding the breath at the end of expii-ation does not seem to produce nearly so marked an effect on the pulse. It generally becomes some- riG. 85.—Quickening of tlie pulse with deep inspiration (loss of vagus influence over heart), with slowing at expiration (vagus regaining its inttuence). The quicker beats are more dicrotic. the heart, and the irregular rhythm of the pulse is again evident. Ordinary inspiration does not exert a sufficient impression on the vagus centre to affect most pulses. Deep inspiratory movements, however, lead to a certain loss of vagus control and to a quicken- ing of the pulse-rate. This is generally followed by an imd ue slowing of the next few beats, more or less marked, due to temporary over- action on the part of the vagus when its roots are again stimulated by increased blood-supply (Fig. 85). Anything, therefore, which leads to a temporary or prolonged overbalancing 'of the vagus control on the heart will, after its influence is removed, induce a form of pulse irregularity characterised by a lengthening of the diastolic portions of some of the pulse-curves. Fig. 87.—The pulse with slow respiration ; longer diastolic periods during expiration. At the time of inspiration there is a fall in the tracing. (Large cerebral hsemorrhage, boy aet. 12 years.) what slower, and may show a higher pressure. At the end of deep expiration, however, there is often a prolongation of the diastolic periods of the curves. The Pulse with Slcnv Respiration.—When the breathing is slow and laboured—as in all cases of cerebral compression, tubercular meningitis, tumour, etc.—it is com- mon to have one or more pulse-curves correspon- ding to the height of inspiration, markedly diminished in size and shortened in duration. The curves occurring at the end of expiration may be somewhat prolonged (Figs. 87 and 88). When the pulse is of high pressure, however, it may show very little respiratory variation (Fig. 89). The type of respiratory curve in some forms of cerebral compression is peculiar, and in several cases of simple basal meningitis the writer ob- tained tracings like that shown in Fig. 90. The respiratory pawse occurs after inspiration. This occurred also in one case of broncho-pneumonia complicated by pleurisy with effusion, and it 27 Fie. 86.—Eflfects of deep respiration in causing pulse irregularity; prolonged beats occur dur- ing the expiratory phase after the transient quickening at inspiration. The pulse-curves are more dicrotic during inspiration. A deep inspiration is only one of the many causes which acts in this manner on the vagus centre, and the reaction of this influence is often seen in a prolongation of the diastolic portions of the curves during expiration, for at this period the vagus again regains its control. The tracing. Fig. 86, shows this form of pulse irregularity where respiration is purposely deep, but not abnormally rapid. However, in some VOL. VIII