PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 17 which the pressure remains constant. As the ventricles relax the pressure suddenly falls to below zero, and then rises to a little above zero, at which it is maintained until the next ven- tricular systole. The diastolic expansion of the ventricle is in part due to the elasticity of the muscular wall, and in part to the filling of the coronary arteries which takes place only as the muscular fibres relax. this the fall is continuous till the next systolic elevation. In the dog the extent of variation of the pressure in auricles and ventricles is roughly as follows—measured in millimetres of mercury— Left Ventricle. Maximum Minimum A s. V. s. A S, rLOW of BLOOD /rom 1. Great Veins to Auricles. 2. Auricles to Ventricles. 3. Ventricles to Arteries CLOSURE or 1. Auriculo-Ventricular Valve 2. Semilunai- Valves SOUNDS of HEA.RT. CARDIAC IMPULSE Right Ventricle. + 60 - 15 Right Auricle. + 30 - 7 Fig. 124.—Diagram to show the relationship of the events in the cardiac cycle to one another. A.S., Auricular systole; V.S., ventricular systole ; P., pause. D. Pressure in the Arteries (dot-dash line in Fig. 124).—The aortic pressure is high through- out. There is a sudden rise as the blood rushes out of the ventricles. The pressure then falls, but the fall is not steady. Often it is inter- rupted by a more or less marked increase cor- responding to the later part of the ventricular contraction. At the moment of ventricular diastole, the fall is very sharp and is interrupted by a well-marked and sharp rise. Following VOL. VIII . +140 . - 30 These changes in the pressure in the different chambers are due— \st. To the alternate systole and diastole of the chambers, the first raising, the second lowering the pressure in the chambers. 2nd. To the action of the valves. 7. Action of the Valves of the Heart. —A. Auriculo-ventricular (Fig. 125).—These valves have been already described as funnel- like prolongations of the auricles into the ventricles. They are firmly held down in the ventri- cular cavity by the chordae ten- dinese. When the ventricle con- tracts the papillary muscles pull the cusps of the valves together and thus occlude the opening between auricles and ventricles. The cusps are further pressed face to face by the increasing pressure in the ventricles, and they may become convex towards the auricles. They thus form a central core around and upon which the ventricles contract. On the left side of the heart the strong anterior cusp of the mitral valve does not materially shift its position. It may be somewhat pulled backwards and to the left. The posterior cusp is pulled forwards against the anterior. On the right side the infun- dibular cusp of the tricuspid valve is stretched between the superior and inferior papillary muscles, and is thus pulled to- wards the bulging septum, against which it is pressed by the in- creasing pressure inside the ven- tricles. The posterior cusp has its anterior margin pulled forward and its pos- terior margin backwards, and is thus also pulled toward the septum. The septal cusp remains against the septum. The greater the pressure in the ventricle, the more firmly are these cusps pressed against one another and against the septum, and the more completely is the orifice between the auricle and the ven- tricle closed. On the right side of the heart other factors play an important part in occlud-