330 PRURIGO AND PRURITUS under the head of Urticaria, but I believe that the proper nosological place of this class of disorder is in the prurigo series. 3. Pruritus beginning in adult life and followed by traumatides of the nature of torn paptdes shoiving no tendency to aggregate by fusion, and scattered discretely, especially over the extensor surface of the limbs. {Prurigo simplex, Brocq. P. temporaria, Tomniasoli.) (1) Acute Form.—According to Brocq, the onset is rather sudden, but without constitutional disturbance. The eruption takes the form of firm, solid, red papules, often torn at the sum- mits and tipped with a minute scab. The skin is in the urticarial condition, and wheals may be present. The papules, which are always discrete and never fused into patches, are dis- tributed chiefly over the extensor surfaces of the limbs, especially the forearms, elbows, knees, and dorsal surfaces of hands and fingers. The flexor surfaces of the limbs and the bends of the big joints are free, or only very slightly affected. The disease runs a course of from two to eight weeks, and ends in recovery. Re- lapses are frequent. Lichenification and eczema- tisation are not met with in this variety. Ac- cording to Darier, the papules of P. simplex have the same anatomical character as the papules of prurigo of Hebra. This variety is practically identical with lichen urticatus of children. (2) Chronic Form.—Objectively indistinguish- able from the acute form, but continuing for months or years. Both these varieties are apt to occur in highly neurotic persons. 4. Pruritus followed by traumatides secondary to mental shock.—Many cases are now recorded in which a sudden mental shock or great grief has been followed by pruritus. The traumatides are not always of the same character. In some cases the lesions take a distinctly lichen planus form. In some of these cases the pruritus may be local instead of general. 5. Pruritus with traumatides recurring in successive tvinters (P. hiemalis, Duhring).—This class of case, described by Professor Duhring, of Philadelphia, under the name of Pruritus hie- malis, is characterised by the fact that the pruritus occurs only in the cold weather. As a rule it appears between October and January, and disappears in April or May. The whole body may be affected, but generally it is worse on the extensor surfaces of the limbs, e&pecially on the thighs. The itching is worse on going to bed and on rising in the morning, and less troublesome in the middle of the day. The traumatides are not pronounced in character, but the skin may become rough, excoriated, and marked by scattered, torn papules. Persons who suffer from this form of pruritus have sometimes remarkably dry skins. According to Corlett, the state of the general health has no appreciable effect on the prui-itus. Local irrita- tion of clothes may aggravate, but does not produce it. He believes that the meteorological conditions most apt to provoke the pruritus are a low temperature, low humidity, with N.W. winds. The greater the velocity of wind the greater the pruritus. 6. Pruritus followed by traumatides recurring in successive summers.—These cases are rarer, but individuals exist who are more sensitive to- heat than to cold, and whose pruritus disappears in the winter to reappear in the summer. 7. Pru7-itus folloiving pregnancy and men- struation may be local or general. In certain women it occurs with each pregnancy and sub- sides after delivery. There is nothing to dis- tinguish it from other forms of pruritus except its association with the physiological events of pregnancy and menstruation. 8. Pru7-itus with pronounced and multiform ti'aumatides concurr'ent ivith jaundice, urcemia, diabetes, or intestinal bacterial toxcemia.—Ac- cording to Besnier, the immediate irritant is not the bile pigments, urea, or sugar, but some irritant liberated by these agents. There is some condition of which we are ignorant, for there are many cases of jaundice, ursemia, and diabetes in which no itching occurs. Objectively this group is characterised by traumatides of the nature of lichenification and eczematisation. 9. Pruritus without traumatides in the aged' (P. senilis).—These cases are characterised by the fact that scratching does not produce trau- matides, or at most only a few slight lesions. It is supposed to be due to atrophic degenera- tion of the skin. In some cases it is associated with lithsemia, obstructive jaundice, chronic Bright's disease, and diabetes mellitus. When pruritus becomes established in old people it is. incurable. 10. Pruritus affecting restricted areas (P. localis).—It is a good rule to assume that all local forms of pruritus are due to local causes- until proved not to be so. (i.) P. vulvce in children is often reflected from the rectum, due to the irritation of ascarides. (ii.) P. vulvce in adults may be provoked by saccharine urine, or acrid vaginal discharges. It may be a premonitory symptom of carcinoma uteri (Kaposi). In many cases we entirely fail to discover any cause. Some persons have a nervous history. One of my patients presented the following family history : two brothers were insane, the father was " peculiar," and had been, afflicted with sexual incompetency ; the paternal grandfather was at one time insane ; the mother, now living, is highly neurotic, and would be described in society as an " oddity." The itch- ing affects the labiae and the clitoris, and often the lower part of the vagina. Prolonged scratching is apt to lead to great induration of the parts, and to the formation of papules. But in other cases traumatides may be absent, or