33T PSORIASIS altogether, and ascribes it all to family con- tagion ; but there are only a few isolated cases in which inoculation seemed probable, including a few cases of vaccination psoriasis and one of experimental inoculation (Destot); Ducrey's extensive series of experiments failed, and there is a general concurrence of opinion that there is very little evidence to support a theory of contagion in this disease. The practical facts remain, that if one or both parents suiTer from psoriasis one of a family of several children will be nearly sure to get it; but it is seldom that several in the same family have it, a fact rather against the idea of contagion. Excessive meat eating is said to be a cause of this disease, and vegetarianism is recommended as a preventative; but the author had as a patient a girl of thirteen with well-marked psoriasis, who was born with a dislike to meat and had scarcely touched it all her life. Possibly after thirty excessive meat eating may be conducive to gouty symptoms, and thus to some extent be a favouring influence. Gout does not, however, play a large' part in this respect, while rheumatoid arthritis, con- sidering its comparative rarity, seems to be strongly predisposing to it. After forty, gout plays a more important part, but has to share with other factors only 16 per cent of all psoriasis cases. A few cases have developed soon after nerve shocks from grief, anxiety, etc. ; but diseases of the nervous system play a much less import- ant role than PolotebnofF claims for them. Speaking in general terms, it may be said that in a large proportion of cases beginning after thirty, defects of health, chiefly in the direction of faulty assimilation or arthritic lesions, are present, while younger subjects generally appear healthy, with ruddy, clear complexions, though in a good number even of these they are not up to their own highest standard, and any depressing influence will often determine an attack. The most striking example is in psori- atic women who suckle their children; this almost always leads to a severe and extensive outbreak. Pathology. — The pathogeny of psoriasis is unknown. One theory is that it is the outcome of a neurosis; but even then parties are not agreed, some assuming that it is a vaso-motor defect, others that it is a central or peripheral tropho-neurosis. The other theory is that it is due to an organism, doubtless schizomycetic. This is probably the correct view, but the sym- metry and rapid widespread development so fre- quently seen postulate that the organism is in the blood when this occurs. The frequent oc- currence of one or two patches remaining isolated for a long time, and then the rapid occurrence of generalisation in some cases, is suggestive of a primary invasion of the skin and subsequent absorption into the circulation, VOL. VIII analogous to what occurs in pityriasis rosea. Cases of slow extension and of distal nail inva- sion may be explained by local inoculation. The organism is probably a very common one, but only certain persons grow it, and heredity is explicable as an inherited tissue proclivity to the growth of the organism if ex- posed to it. Unna's view that psoriasis is the extreme end of the chain of the seborrha3ic process does not meet with much acceptance. Anatomically, the changes are those of moder- ate inflammation in the papillary layer of the corium with pronounced vascular dilatation; enormous increase of the horny layers with separation of the lamellse; increased develop- ment of the prickle cell layers except over the papillae; great down-growth of the inter-papil- lary processes and consequent enlargement of the papillae. The interpretation of these changes is a matter of controversy. While some regard the process as one of inflammation of a mild type,, others say that the inflammatory changes are secondary to the rete changes, and one of the most recent observers asserts that the first change is in the horny layers, but this is im- probable. Diagnosis. — An ordinary case presents no difficulties, the symmetrical distribution pre- dominating on the extensor surfaces, especially the elbows and knees, the discoid shape, well- defined border, and spongy crust of adherent silvery scales almost concealing the reddened base; and when the scales are picked off", the bright red, easily bleeding points which are exposed, and the dry character of the inflamma- tion, make up a very characteristic group of symptoms. Difficulties arise when some of the above symptoms are absent, ill-marked, or modified by various conditions. Symmetry may be absent from some local cause, or in the early stage of the first attack, when it may be unilateral for some time. The discoid shape is often lost or obscured by coales- cence. The crust of scales may be removed by washing, as on the hands, or by some appli- cation, before the case comes under observation. In very pruritic cases, the patch may be scratched into an eczematous condition, so that it is no longer a dry inflammation, but very often only blood crusts are produced. The diseases most like psoriasis are dry patches of eczema, especially seborrhoeic forms; lichen planus patches, pityriasis rosea, sqviamous syph- ilides, tinea circinata, and some scaly forms of lupus erythematosus. The patches of eczema, even when round and better defined than usual, as in the seborrhoeic form, are never thickly covered with scales, and what there are, are in a single layer, and in no way conceal the ground colour. There are no bright red points, as in psoriasis, and serous. 22