182 PNEUMONIA—CLINICAL SECTION rapid and shallow breathing, with cough and fever. But the temperature does not run as high as in pneumonia, and the other evidences of a profound intoxication are wanting. The character of the cough is dry, short, sharp, and hacking in pleurisy, and the course of the attack is less cyclic than pneumonia. The sputa are indicative of catarrh or of pulmonary oedema in pleuritis. Great attention must be paid to the physical signs, which in most cases afford grounds for a differential diagnosis. In the first place, on inspection, the natural furrows of the inter- costal spaces are maintained in pneumonia, whereas in acute pleurisy with effusion they are effaced, the spaces sometimes bulging. On palpation, vocal or pectoral fremitus is usually exaggerated in pneumonia, lessened or lost in pleurisy. The cardiac impulse may be felt in or very near its usual situation in pneumonia; it may be widely displaced in pleurisy. On percussion the absolute dulness (amounting to flatness) of pleural effusion contrasts with the relative dulness of a pneumonic consolidation. And, lastly, on auscultation, we have in order in pneumonia rough breath sounds, fine crepita- tion, tubular breathing, and bronchophony or segophony, with crepitus redux in the resolution stage. In pleuritis there are—in order—friction sounds, faintness or absence of breath sounds, or distant rhonchi and rales, with lessened vocal resonance. Signs of displacement of organs, namely, the heart, liver, spleen, and stomach, are present in cases of extensive pleural effusion. Unfortunately, the principal signs may help but little in the case of young children, but in them pneumonia still generally keeps its cyclic and periodic character—the duration of the attack being numbered by days instead of weeks, as in pleurisy. Prognosis Pneumonia is always a serious disease, for its presence means interference with respiration and circulation alike. Yet the death-rate is not ex- cessive in the United Kingdom. It has already been shown that the mortality per cent of those attacked equals 14'5 in England and Wales. In the United States of America pneumonia appears to be a far deadlier disease than in the United Kingdom. According to Osier, pneumonia is the most widespread and the most fatal of all acute diseases. In the United States, during the census year 1890, 76,496 persons died of it, a death-rate per 100,000 of population of 186-94. "More deaths are attributed to it than to any single form of disease, except consumption" (Census Report). Hospital statistics, quoted by Osier, show a very high rate of mortality—for example, Montreal General Hospital, 20'4 per cent; Johns Hopkins Hospital, 29-8 per cent; Pennsylvania Hospital, 29 per cent; Boston City Hospital, 29-1 per cent; and highest of all, in a southern climate—Charity Hospital, New Orleans, 38'01 per cent. Osier quotes Wells as collecting from various sources 223,730 cases, with 40,276 deaths, a mortality of 18-1 per cent. The fatality of pneumonia is governed by the patient's age, sex, habits, previous state of health, the seat and extent of the lung affection, and the epidemic virulence of the disease for the time being. Age.—Croupous pneumonia is not fatal to young children, or to pi-eviously healthy, sober adults. It is extremely deadly to old people, and in the presence of a broken-down constitu- tion. " The greater the wear and tear of the body, the more fatal the disease becomes" (Jiirgensen). Sex.—Less common among females, pneu- monia is more fatal to them than to males. Of 223 cases treated in the Presbyterian Hospital, New York, 170 were males, with a death-rate of 28'8 per cent; and 53 were females, with a death-rate of 31-2 per cent (Andrew H. Smith). One reason for the higher mortality among women is that the condition of pregnancy adds immensely to the danger of pneumonia, owing to the hyperinotic state of the blood which attends pregnancy. Habits.—Alcoholic excess enormously adds to the peril of pneumonia. Among 428 cases ad- mitted to the Presbyterian Hospital, New York, the mortality was 20 per cent among the non- alcoholic, 32 per cent among the moderately alcoholic, but 70 per cent among the markedly alcoholic (A. H. Smith). Previous Ill-Health.—Damaged kidneys, of course, play an important role in increasing the mortality among alcoholic pneumonia patients. Rheumatism, malarial poisoning, diabetes, chronic nephritis, heart or lung disease, es- pecially phthisis, all influence the prognosis unfavourably. Situation and Extent.—An apical pneumonia is more dangerous than a basic attack, because it less readily resolves. Double pneumonia is very dangerous. So is an attack which involves the whole of one lung, or is accompanied by a ci'oupous bronchitis (massive pneumonia). Right pneumonia is stated to be more fatal than left. Epidemic Influences.—At times of epidemic prevalence the disease is apt to become virulent. The pneumonia of influenza is one of the deadliest of diseases, directly because it tends to spread through the lungs, and is accompanied by a general bronchial catarrh; indirectly, because of the concomitant heart-palsy. Among imfavourable prognostics are high fever (above 105° F.), very rapid respirations without hyperpyrexia, tachycardia, and feeble pulse, accentuation of the pulmonary second sound followed by loss of this character (imply- ing weakening of the right ventricle), absence