502 REFRACTION number of dioptres in the lens. As regards the direction of decentering, since the thinnest part of a concave lens is at its centre, this centre should be displaced in the direction of the thinnest part or apex of the required prism, the reverse being the case with a convex lens, for since its centre is its thickest part it should be displaced in the direction of the base of the required prism. A scale constructed by the writer for the measurement of hyperphoria is obtainable, with directions thereon as to the amount of decentering that is necessary to correct any defect. It is evidently important in all cases of decentering to know what point to decenter from; in other words, to know the exact distance between the eyes, and whether one eye is higher than the other. Numerous pupillo- meters exist for this purpose. The most accurate are those that require the patient to look at a distant object through two pin-holes, but this requires too much intelligence for most patients. The pupillometers in ordinary use, which allow the prescriber to take the measure- ment, are subject to errors from parallax, since they secure no fixed point of view for the examiner's eye. The "localiser" is free from this defect, and also has the advantages that it can measure the interpupillary distance in squinters just as easily as in ordinary cases, and can measure the distance of each eye from the middle of the nose, and the elevation of one pupil over the other. It is made in metal to fit the trial frame, and is placed just before one eye and then another, enabling the observer to " sight" the patient's pupil as along a gun, while his own pupil is looked at by the patient. A slight modification of this instrument is now- made, since it has occurred to the writer to utilise an ophthalmoscopic reflection from the cornea for measuring the distance between the visual lines, this reflection appearing to him to afford by far the most rational landmark for the purpose, since it marks out more closely than any other the very spot of the cornea traversed by the visual axis. All errors from high angle gamma, too, are thus avoided.^ All that is necessary is to adjust the trial frame with the localiser in it, till the reflection, the notch, and the point are all in a line. It is only for strong lenses and special cases that such accuracy is required, and for ordinary work the usual pupillometers suffice. Refractive Headaches.—The eff"ort of ac- commodation in H, or its embarrassment in As, is very apt to give rise to a species of " referred pain " of a dull and continuous character, which may vary from a slight heaviness over the eye- brows to a more distressing widespread head- ache. In either case an area of tenderness may ' The angle gamma is the angle between the fixation line and the geometrical axis of the eyeball. It is greatest in hypermetropia, and least in myopia. be found, sometimes, if sought for, after reading, just over the root of the nose. Sometimes the headache itself is confined to the sa6ie spot, but more often it is over each eyebrow. Occipital headache is by no means a rare accompaniment, but more generally implies either fatigue of the cerebral visual centres or defects of the extra- ocular muscles. Headache in one or both temples, or at the vertex, is more rarely of ophthalmic origin. Refractive headaches are at first only disposed to occur towards the end of long spells of reading or fine work, but when more pronounced the subject wakes with them in the early morning. Gradual relief sets in during the morning hours, but evening work again aggravates the dis- comfort. In contrast to this daily headache we often meet with cases in which migrainous head- aches, more or less periodical, are set up by refractive errors, with freedom from any pro- nounced headache in the intervals. Headaches sometimes cease entirely from the first day the correcting glasses are adopted, but more fre- quently it takes a few weeks to get sufficiently accustomed to their novelty to obtain their full benefit. Simple myopia never causes headaches, though a myopic eye is sometimes the seat of congestive neuralgia. A curious feature about astigmat- ism is that low degrees are just as liable to cause headaches as the higher degrees, and especially if the principal meridians are oblique, or if the horizontal meridian of the cornea is more strongly curved than the vertical. It often only begins to give trouble about the age of thirty, and refractive headaches nearly always begin to die away after the age of fifty. " Head- ache spectacles " should be worn continuously to get the best eff"ect. Refrig'erantS.—Cooling drinks, such as lemonade, imperial, etc., used in fevers and febrile conditions to relieve thirst. See Pharma- cology. Refrig'era.tion.—A means of preserving food-stuff's, such as meat, by freezing. Refuse. See Sewage and Drainage {Ex- creiiient and Ref use Disposal). Reg^eneration.—The restoration or re- pair of lost parts such as nerve. See Physi- ology, Tissues {Neurons, Nutrition of). Reg'imen.—A system of rules as to diet and hygiene imposed upon a sick person (Lat. regimen, government). Reg'iO or Regrion.—A part or district of the abdomen, such as one of the abdominal areas (epigastric, umbilical, hypogastric, etc.). See Gynaecology, Diagnosis in {Inspection of Abdomen, Regions of).