PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 74 elimination through the skin, that the tempera- ture is kept uniform. The nerves to the cutaneous vessels, and to the sweat glands, are the great controllers of temperature. It is through failure of this mechanism under the action of the toxins of micro-organisms that heat elimination is diminished and the tempera- ture is raised in fevei's. It is not necessary to assume that there is a special heat regulating nervous mechanism, since the nervous arrangements presiding over the vessels and glands of the skin are capable of immediately responding to change of condition calling for their intervention. II. Storage of Surj}lws Food A. Since bulk for bulk fat has more than twice the energy value of proteins or carbo- hydrates, it is an advantage to store surplus food as fat. This storage takes place chiefly in three situ- ations : (1) fatty tissue; (2) muscle; (3) liver. 1. In Fatty Tissues.—In most mammals the chief storage of surplus food is in the fatty tissues. That the fat of the food can be stored in them is shown by the fact that the administra- tion of large amounts of fats different from those of the body leads to their appearance in those tissues. Fats are also formed from the carbohydrates of the food. Feeding experiments upon pigs and other animals, carried out in this country by Laws and Gilbert, have definitely proved that sugary foods are changed to fat in the body and stored in that form. The following may be given as an example of such experi- ments. Two young pigs of a litter were taken, and one was killed and analysed. The other was fed for weeks on maize, the amount eaten being weighed and the excretion of nitrogen by the pig being determined. The animal was then killed and analysed, and it was found that the fat gained was more than could be produced from the fat and protein of the food eaten. It must therefore have been formed from the carbohydrates. The evidence that fats may be formed from the proteins of the food is conflicting. In the ripening of cheese it is undoubted that under the influence of micro-organism proteins are changed to fats, and in all probability the same thing occurs in the formation of the fatty adipocere in the muscles of the dead body during putrefaction. At one time it was supposed that imder the influence of such poisons as phosphorus the proteins of the cells of the mammalian tissues are changed to fat. But careful chemical examination lias shown that the so-called fatty degeneration is due to accumulation of already existing fats in the affected organs. Voit fed dogs on lean beef, and found that, while all the nitrogen was discharged from the body, the carbon was retained, and he concluded that it was retained as fat. But he failed to recognise that even lean flesh contains both fat and glycogen from which the fat can be formed. At present we have no direct evidence that the fats of the body are formed from proteins. 2. In the Liver.—The liver is a storehouse of carbohydrates and fats (p. 75). Lecithin is always present in the liver, even in prolonged fasting. 3. In Muscle.—Some animals, as the salmon, store fats within their muscle fibres; but in mammals such a storage is limited in amount. B. Proteins may, to a small extent, be stored in muscle, especially after a fast or a prolonged illness. But in the healthy mammal it is difficult to get such a storage, except in athletic training, where the muscles may be enormously increased by the building up of the protein derivatives of the food into their protoplasm. C. Carbohydrates are stored to a small ex- tent in the liver and in the muscle. III. The Liver in relationship to Absorbed Food and to the General Metabolism, The liver develops as a couple of diverticula from the embryonic gut, and is thus primarily a digestive gland, and in invertebrates it re- mains as a part of the intestine both structur- ally and functionally. But in mammals, early in foetal life, it comes to have important re- lationships with the blood going to nourish the body from the placenta. The vein bringing the blood from the mother breaks up into a series of capillaries in the young liver, and in these capillaries the development of the cells of the blood goes on for a considerable time. Soon the liver begins to seci-ete bile, while animal starch and fat begin to accumulate in its cells. Gradually the formation of blood cells stops, and the mass of liver cells become larger in proportion to the capillaries. As the foetal intestine develops, the vein bringing blood from it—the portal vein—opens into the capillary network of the liver, so that, when at birth the supply of nourishment from the placenta is stopped, the liver is still associated with the blood bringing nutrient material to the tissues. 1. Relation to Carbohydrates — Glycogenic Function. — Claude Bernard discovered that sugar is formed in the liver. This formation of sugar goes on throughout life, and on account of this constant supply the amount of sugar in the blood does not diminish, even when an animal undergoes a prolonged fast. In starva- tion there are only two possible sources of this glucose — the fats and the proteins of the tissues. There is no conclusive evidence that fats can be changed to sugar in the liver, although it is difficult to explain the large amount of sugar which is sometimes excreted