372 PUERPERIUM, PATHOLOGY OF (gr. x.-xv. to is very useful (Fordyce Barker). (6) Cellulitis, adenitis, and abscess of the areola are simply an extension of the similar condition from the nipple (already considered). This is rarer than suppuration within the breast itself. The condition is sometimes called supra- mammary abscess (absces de I'areole). When suppuration occurs it is better not to incise till a distinctly pointed swelling is evident, in case of injuring a milk duct. Proper attention to the nipples to a great extent prevents this condition, and resolution generally occurs if the exciting cause, the irrita- tion of suckling, be removed. Small boils or pustules may develop in the sebaceous follicles of the areola from suppuration. (c) Anomalies of Areola.—The writer has met one instance where suckling was rendered impos- sible by the escape of milk from Montgomery's tubercles while the child was at the breast. 3. Affections of the Mamma (a) Mastitis, or inflammation of the breast, commonly called a " weed," may affect both breasts simultaneously, but more frequently affects one (usually the right). It is more common in primiparse. Blondes and lymphatic subjects are most subject to it, and it is rarely met with after the fourth pregnancy. Since more attention has been paid in recent years to prophylaxis, its frequency has fallen from about 6 per cent to 3 per cent in confine- ments in private practice, and at the present time a case is almost unique in a lying-in hospital. There are four periods during the puerperium when mastitis is most likely to occur :— (1) In the first month—the stage of mutual adaptation. (2) When there is sudden arrest of suckling, causing liability to milk stasis. (3) At the period of appearance of the first teeth, when the nipple is exposed to injury. (4) At the period of weaning, when engorge- ment may occur from irregular emptying of the breasts, or when the child, failing to get nourishment, shows its dissatisfaction by tug- ging at the nipple. Varieties of Mastitis.—(I) Parenchymatous or glandular (the most frequent form). (2) Subcutaneous. (3) Postmammary or subglandular. These varieties may coexist, and frequently a mastitis begins as a parenchymatous form, and then approaches the skin surface of the gland. Causes.—The puei-peral breast, being an organ frequently engorged with blood, and containing an animal fluid, forms consequently a convenient nidus for the proliferation of organisms. The dependent position of the glands further favours congestion, and owing to their situation they are liabhj to injuries. It is now abundantly proved that mastitis is invariably caused by the action of organisms. Mere stasis of the milk will not produce inflammation, unless the milk contains abun- dance of bacteria. Kehrer has sealed up the nipple with collodion, and no inflammation ensued from the resulting engorgement and stasis. Stasis is a frequent precursor of mastitis, but never in itself a cause. Organisms can gain access to the breast through its numerous ducts when there are any abrasions on the nipple or areola, and as such breaches of surface are frequent in lactating women, the entrance of pyogenic organisms readily takes place. Nowhere are the usual organisms of the skin found in greater numbers than in the axilla and on the mammary areola, and micro-organisms exist in special abundance in the moist fossa at the base of the nipple. These organisms are mostly pyogenic, and thus it is not to be wondered at that the least abrasion of the nipple becomes a septic wound. Organisms may also be conveyed to the nipple by the child's mouth, the hands of the mother, a dirty nipple shield, etc. Some- times the lesions on the nipple through which absorption has taken place are so small as to require a lens to distinguish them. Micro-organisms have the special power of coagulating caseinogen on gaining access to the milk. Escherich believes that, in puerperal septic conditions, microbes, which have entered the blood from lesions in the genital canals, may find their way into the milk and set up mastitis. Hence the importance of keeping the genital tract aseptic. Congestions and Milk Engorgements.— Many of these conditions are purely physiological, as when the milk first appears, and are accom- panied sometimes by pain and slight rise of temperature. Milk engorgement may occur when suckling is suddenly interrupted, as by the death of the child, or when nursing has become painful from tender nipples. The breast then swells, becomes hot, painful, and congested, while localised ai-eas of induration can be felt, which are loaded milk ducts. The superficial veins become large and prominent. This condition, especially if associated with neglected sore nipples, is almost certain to go on to mastitis and abscess formation, owing to the easy absorption of organisms. Various causes may interfere with the milk flow, thus leading to engorgement in the milk ducts of a part, or even the whole, of the breast, e.g. hyper-secretion, chill (which may occur quite as readily from the patient's night- gown being soaked from an overflow of milk through the night, as by direct exposure), or blocking of a duct by some inspissated secretion. Treatment of Mammary Engorgement. — In the first place any abrasion or sign of excoria- tion about the nipples must be rendered aseptic with a mercurial lotion. In mild cases some