485 RECTUM, DISEASES OF THE great that the sufferer is worn out for want of rest, a bone plug may be inserted into the anus at night. It is shaped like the teat of a feeding-bottle, and has a circular shield to pre- vent slipping. In some cases, when there is no discoverable cause, benefit accrues from dilating the sphincters. Fissure and Painful Irritable Ulcer of THE Rectum.—This small affection wears out a patient's health and strength in a remarkable manner, if, through motives of delicacy, for instance, it is allowed to go on a long time. Yet it is very easily cured. Ulcer, or fissure, which is only a small ulcer in a particular posi- tion, may be caused by constipation, polypi, syphilis, or congenital narrowness of the anal orifice. It is commonly situated along the in- ternal or external sphincter. Ulcers and fissures vary in depth and size. They may be simple wounds, or inflamed, callous, indurated, or even with a sloughy base. The most usual position is dorsal. Usually the patient believes himself to have piles, complaining of discharge of blood and matter, and swelling and pain at stool. The pain at stool may be excruciating, leaving the sufferer to postpone action of the bowels, and thus increasing the pain eventually pro- duced by passage of hard, desiccated fseces. Often pain continues long after a motion, and sometimes does not begin till some minutes after. The great mobility of the external sphincter, and its free and easily exposed nerve- supply, accoimt for the severity of the pain. Retention of urine, pain in the back, and numbness down the legs may be caused by fissure. Examination for fissure is conducted in the manner described as usually to be adopted for rectal examination. A polypoid growth will often be seen at the upper part of the fissure. A speculum may be needed for detection of an ulcer, though the educated finger distinguishes the spot at once, for it feels like the internal aperture of a fistula, but with harder edges, and without elevation above the level of the mucous membrane. In children and young persons, unless a polypus or polypoid growth is present, cure can be obtained without operation. Rest, mild laxatives, mercurial ointment, and cleanli- ness are all that is necessary. After action of the bowels an opiate injection is to be used. If there is great spasm of the sphincter, belladonna ointment is to be smeared around the anus over the sphincter. When a fissure is anterior or lateral, it can be cured without operation. When it is dorsal, and there is no spasm or hypertrophy of sphincter, it can also be so cured. When the fissure is dorsal, with spasm or hypertrophy of the sphincter, palliative treatment is not enough. Division, or very free dilatation of the sphincters, is then neces- sary. The external sphincter must be com- pletely divided, the internal only stretched. The incision shoidd begin a little above the upper end of the fissure, and end a little below the outer end. Its depth should be not less than half an inch. Polypoid growths, and swollen, inflamed skin, if present, are to be removed with scissors. A small piece of cotton- wool is placed in the wound for forty-eight hours, and the patient kept in bed till the wound is healed, after-treatment being as with fistula cases. Complete dilatation is effected by pressing and pulling with the thumbs till the sphincters, previously hard, feel like putty. It takes five minutes to do this thoroughly. All ulcers about the internal sphincter are best treated by incision; old, large, indurated fissures also require this treatment, and those complicated by piles or fistula. Simple fissures about the external sphincter, and those in the old, phthisical, and broken-down in health, and in childi'en, if the operation is necessary, should be cured by dilatation. Neuralgia and Hysteria op the Rectum.— This term is applied to a painful condition of rectum, when nothing can be found to cause the symptoms. Many slight lesions are easily overlooked, and the absence of these must be certainly ascertained before any case is christened neuralgia or hysteria. (1) Very slight erosion or inflammation of a spot in the rectum, high up or low down, may cause great pain, and yet be found only with utmost difficulty. (2) Fissures and irritable ulcers may give rise to nervous sensations, even after they have healed. Perhaps a nerve filament is implicated in the cicatrix. When no local cause is present the symptoms are— (a) Reflex, caused by lesion elsewhere. (b) Actual neuralgia, or hysteria. These cases do occur, though not commonly. Sufferers from these obscure affections are generally healthy people with no other trouble. They complain of short, stabbing pain, unrelated to action of the bowels, with no apparent cause, and at times very intense. Others have a sense of fulness and burning, unrelieved by purgation or washing ovit the bowel. Others are fre- quently obliged to go to stool, where they get no relief, while others are burdened with a constant sense of the presence of the rectum. In such cases, when the most careful examina- tion reveals no local or distant cause for the symptoms, these must be regarded as neuralgic or hysterical. Conditions with which such symptoms are associated are— (1) Congestion of the rectal vessels. (2) Uterine, urinary organ, and prostatic disease. (3) Locomotor ataxy. (4) Mania. (5) Epilepsy. When none of these exist, and there is no local cause, we are confronted with a true neuralgic or else a hysterical rectum. Pos-