409 PULSE, THE the auricular movement from the jugular pulse. This is only possible in the few instances in which venous pulsation is coincidently present, so as a general rule the " false auricular inter- mission " cannot be definitely diagnosed. In this variety the auricle contracts prematurely, and the ventricle follows suit; the regular con- it may be more simply and more correctly described as a beat delayed. These four types of pulse intermission de- scribed by Cushny may be obtained experi- mentally on animals, but, clinically, if we adopt his nomenclature, there are only two common variations which we need consider, namely, the so-called false ve7i- tricular intermis- sion, and the true auricular one. The true auricular intermission of Cushny is the one form of irregularity which is very fre- quently found in children. Mackenzie, who has investigated the subject of pulse irregularity from the clinical side in an exhaustive manner, adopts a much simpler and more useful classification. He admits the two common types which have been mentioned ; the so-called false ventricular and the true auricular intermissions. The two other forms of irregu- FlG. eo.—" False ventricular intermission." The ventricle has made a second and premature con- traction (p) after its full beat. (Cushny's classification.) The last intermission shown in the tracing may be of the " false auricular " type. (See p. 408.) tractions of the auricle are thus broken—hence the cause of the irregularity lies in the auricle and not in the ventricle. IV. True auricular intermissions, in which the pause is shorter than two pulse-intervals, and during which there is no cardiac sound (Figs. 61 and 62). In this variety, unlike the last de- scribed, the auricle instead of going off into a premature contraction at various intervals, does not contract at all. For some reason the sequence of regular auricular impulses to the ventricle is broken, and after a longer pause than usual the next contraction comes and is followed by the ventricular systole. Cushny calls this a true auricular in- termission, but a study of the child's pulse shows it to be of such common occurrence in early life that another explanation is more likely. This kind of intermission is found in adults, but it only occurs at very rare intervals (see Fig. 57), whereas in the case of the child it occurs all through the tracing. The writer may also state that in adults who exhibited this Fig. 62.—Pulse of child fet. 5 years, showing irregularity of the ' auricular" type, according to Cushny's classification. true Fig. 61.—"True auricular intermission." The " intermission intervals, and there is no second contraction of the ventricle duriU; (Cushny's classification.) peculiar irregularity, he could never make out other heart sounds after the regular contraction ; the ventricle may, nevertheless, have made an attempt at premature contraction. Still there is no reason why, in both adults and children, this form of pulse should be regarded as an intermission at all. There is no real inter- mission of the heart—that is, as a beat lost; larity described by Cushny apparently do exist, but one has not often the opportunity of con- firming the auricular contraction in cases of doubt. Mackenzie's Classification of Pulse Irregu- larities.—Mackenzie, in his classification of ir- regularities of the pulse, suggests two groups— I. Those in which the dura- tion of the period of ventricular systole is regular. The irregu- larity is here shown by the varying lengths of the diastolic periods (Fig. 63). This is the type observed so often in the young, and is what Mackenzie terms " the youthful type of irregularity." It occurs in adults too, however, and is evidently the same thing as Cushny has described as a true auricular inter- mission. II. Those in which the duration of the period of ventricular systole is variable. This is the usual type in adults, and has been supposed never to exist in young children. The writer has, however, found it on several occasions, the youngest child being only two years old is shorter than two pulse- the pause.