252 PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—DISEASES OF PLACENTA AND CORD conditions of health these are neither large enough nor numerous enough to interfere with the functional capacity of the placenta or the ni;trition of the foetus. Within the last decade it has been shown that changes similar in nature, but much more widespread and occur- ring much earlier in gestation, are found in association with a well-known disorder of preg- nancy, viz. albuminuria. This condition has long been known to cause a heavy fcetal mor- tality, estimated on recent evidence at 54 per cent, and evidence has now been advanced that the changes in the placenta are the cause of the death of the foetus. In a mai'ked example of pathological infarc- tion a considerable proportion to |) of the placenta is converted into a firm, yellowish, apparently bloodless tissue, which is seen under the microscope to consist of atrophied chorionic villi with large deposits of fibrin, both elements usually showing marked fatty degeneration. Hsemorrhages may be found in the non-infarcted portions of the placenta, In marked cases of albuminuria pregnancy seldom continues be- yond the thirty-sixth week, and the earlier the onset of labour the more marked are the pla- cental changes. As a rule the most extensive changes of all are found in the placentse of foetuses which have perished in utero, and have been born in a state of maceration. The infarction appears to depend upon an obliter- ative endarteritis of the foetal vessels. It has long been known that the foetus of albuminuric mothers is smaller and lighter than the normal foetus of the corresponding period of gestation ; it is, in fact, under-developed, and possesses but low vitality. Dege7iercitions.—The following forms of de- generation affect the placenta : — 1. Vesicular degeneration (hydatidiformmole). 2. Myxoma fibrosum. 3. Fatty and calcareous degeneration. 4. Cystic degeneration. 1. Vesicular degeneration is a form of myxo- matous degeneration of the stroma of the chorionic villi which usually occurs at an early period before the differentiation of the placenta begins ; it is therefore more commonly a disease of the chorion than of the placenta, and will be found fully described in that relation in another place. In rarer instances, however, it occurs at a later period, and is then found in the placenta. The disease has the main general characters as in the hydatidiform mole, but the whole pla- centa is seldom affected; usually one or two cotyledons degenerate, while the rest of the organ escapes. 2. Myxoma fibrosum is a form of myxomatous and fibroid degeneration of the chorionic villi which is usually described as a new growth, although it would be more accurately classed as a form of degeneration. It will be described under " Tumours of the Placenta," p. 253. 3. Fatty and Calcareous Degeneration.—Fatty degeneration is rarely found in the placenta except, as the result of pre-existing lesions. The observations of Barnes and Druitt, which are still sometimes quoted in textbooks as the first description of primary fatty degeneration, have been shown to be incorrect. A certain amount of fat is contained in the normal human placenta, being located in the plas- modial layer of the chorionic epithelium and in the superficial layers of the decidua. This may be easily distinguished from pathological de- posits, as it occurs in minute non-confluent droplets and is very small in amount. A good deal of fat is also found in white infarcts, the older infarcts containing the larger deposits. Fatty degeneration is perhaps most commonly met with as a sequela of pathological infarc- tion in albuminuria, and is probably the direct result of the extensive arterial obstruction of the foetal vessels which occurs in that condition. It is also not uncommonly found in connection with placental oedema and in placentse retained in %otero after the death of the foetus. There is no evidence of any well-defined relation be- tween syphilis and fatty degeneration, as was so frequently stated in the earlier papers on this subject. In parts which have undergone fatty de- generation a deposit of lime salts is often found. In a ripe placenta numerous small thin calcareous plates are present upon the maternal surface; they occur in the serotina, and as a rule do not involve the villi. Instances are on record where almost the entire uterine face has been thus covered with a thin calcareous plate. Such deposits do not appear to affect the functional activity of the placenta. 4. Cystic Degeneration. — By this term is understood the formation of cysts by a process of degeneration. Cysts occur but rarely in the placenta, being occasionally observed upon the foetal surface of an otherwise healthy organ. Here they occur as small multiple collections of clear yellowish fluid situated beneath the amnion. This membrane can be readily peeled off the cyst which appears to be in the substance of the sub-amniotic chorion or the basal plate of placental chorion from which the villi spring. Occasionally similar cysts occur in the anmion itself. They are produced by a process of myxomatous degeneration of the connective tissue, and possess no epithelial lining, their walls being formed of degenerating and com- pressed connective tissue. The placental con- nective tissue is all of embryonic type, and is very prone to this form of degeneration. These cysts never exceed the size of a pigeon's egg, and do not interfere in any way with the functional activity of the placenta. Tuberculosis. — Tubercular disease of the placenta is probably rare; at any rate the number of cases recorded in recent years is