294 PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—HEMORRHAGE draws it down {v. Fig. 5). At the same time that this final traction is being made, the abdominal hand piishes the fcetal head upwards to the fundus of the uterus, and so version is completed. The last step consists in tying a strip of iodoform gauze to the foot, as by this means traction can be most easily applied if necessary. In order that this line of treatment can be carried out satisfactorily two conditions must be fulfilled :— (1) The cervical canal must be of sufficient size to admit two fingers at least. If the hsemorrhage is at all severe this condition is practically always fulfilled. (2) The membranes must be intact, or only quite recently ruptured. If the uterus has Fig. 5.—Method of completing bi-polar version in a case in which the size of the 03 will not permit of the presence of the foot and the two Hngers at the same time. The hand in the vagina pushes the cervix upwards while the foot is made to descend by pressure upon the breech (diagrammatic). become contracted down upon the foetus it will be found impossible to turn except by internal version, and there is rarely or never sufficient cervical dilatation to allow of this. This con- dition will also be always fulfilled unless an ignorant attendant has resorted to rupture of the membranes, with the idea that such treatment is sufficient. In the rare case in which the cervical canal is not sufficiently dilated to admit two fingers, and in which the hfemorrhage is so severe that it is impossible to wait for a short time to allow it to dilate, the firm plugging of the vagina with iodoform gauze and cotton-wool is indicated. This is performed in the same manner as has been already described under the head of accidental hfemorrhage. When the patient is in labour, the treatment of the case is the same as that of accidental htemorrhage occurring under the same condi- tions. Commence by rupturing the membranes, a proceeding which is usually sufficient. This acts by allowing the head to advance without causing traction through the membranes upon the placenta, and at the same time the descend- ing head presses upon the placenta and checks hEemorrhage, as does the breech after version has been performed. If this is not sufficient to check the bleeding, internal version may be performed, followed or not by extraction, according to the condition in which the patient is and the size of the os. If the head is fixed and the os sufficiently dilated, the forceps may be applied. Other Modes of Treatment.—As in accidental hjemorrhage, the above is the treatment which the author considers most suitable. Other lines of treatment have been recommended by various authorities, and of these the following are the chief :— (1) Champetier de Ribes' Bag.—The plugging of the lower uterine segment by means of a Champetier de Ribes' bag is perhaps the line of treatment which, after bi-polar version, has the greatest number of advocates at the present day. A Champetier de Ribes' bag is a pear- shaped bag made of waterproofed silk. Its wide end or base is three-and-a-half inches across, while the narrow end tapers to the size of a quarter-inch rubber tube, with which it is continuous, and by which it is filled. The bag, or hydrostatic dilator as it is termed, is used as follows :—The patient is placed in the cross- bed position, with her hips well over the side of the bed, and the vagina is thoroughly disin- fected. The membranes are then ruptured immediately over the inner os, and the bag is passed upwards into the amniotic cavity by means of a forceps made for the purpose. It is then distended slowly by injecting into it any antiseptic fluid, either by attaching a syringe, the tube of a uterine douche, or other form of irrigator, to the nozzle. As soon as it is full the tap is turned oft' to prevent the fluid escaping. Finally, the end of the bag or colpeurynter is connected with the foot of the bed by means of an elastic cord, which is made as tight as the patient can bear. The effect of the introduction of a pear-shaped bag like Champetier de Ribes' into the amniotic cavity is to cause a compression of the placenta against the uterine wall, and at the same time a dilata- tion of the cervical canal, in very much the same manner as the breech of the child does in Braxton Hicks' method; while the rupture of the membranes also helps to bring on uterine contractions. The bag is allowed to remain in the uterus as long as it will, that is, until the cervical canal is so dilated that it slips out. If this does not happen within twelve hours the bag must be removed, the child turned by bi-polar or internal version, according to the