PRURIGO AND PRURITUS 327 far we can say that a vague conception is usually associated with pruritus. But when a man who is asleep, or even comatose, tears at his skin, it is obvious that neither conceptions and desires nor any other psychological act have anything to do with his pruritus. To pursue this question further would only lead on into metaphysics. It is wiser to wait imtil physiology fiirnishes us with some definite facts. The Causation of the Pruritic State It cannot be insisted on too much that pruritus is the symptom and not the disease. The real disease underlying all the prurigos is latent. Of itself it produces no lesion; it rouses no cellular reaction, and no inflammation. Our ignorance of it is profound, therefore we write of it in terms of wide generality and often of vague and inexact meaning. It begins in- sidiously, and grows with the individual; often it is the only symptom, and the patients make no complaint of ill-health. The bodily functions, so far as we can detect, may be in no way dis- turbed. It sometimes occurs along with other symptoms, forming what we may call indefinite cases. Again, it may be associated with pro- nounced diseases of certain organs, for example, obstructive jaundice. It may assert itself in gout, in uraemia, and in Graves' disease. I have known it to be the most distressing symptom in general lymphadenoma. No period of life is exetnpt from it. In that particular manifesta- tion of the pruritic state which we call prurigo Hebrte it begins in infancy or early childhood. It certainly assumes new aspects at different ages. The form of an adult prurigo is gener- ally different from that of the child, while often in old age the pruritic state is lesionless. Some vai'ieties are met with only among the very poor, but the well fed are not exempt. Of temperaments it may be said that the neurotic are prone to it, but some bad forms are asso- ciated with what we call the strumous, and the French the lymphatic temperament. But out of all this uncertainty we can at least fix this general truth, namely, that a p7-uritic state springs from antecedents which do not follow any routine track. Like fever, it is a perturba- tion of wide generality from which no warm- blooded animal is exempt. According to Besnier, the main pathological condition of the prurigos lies in the adulteration of the blood, or of the lymph, or of the inter- cellular fluids. This adulteration he believes to be autonomous. That the stimulus which pro- vokes the sensation of itching is chemical in its nature receives the support of the eminent physiologist Professor Kiesow.' The Conseque7ices of the Pruritic State ; Tran- matides.—For convenience of description we ' This opinion was conveyed in a letter from Professor Kiesow to the writer. may divide these into (1) Cutaneous, and (2) General, or those which relate to the health of the individual. 1. Cutaneous.—To save repetition, and for brevity's sake, I propose to speak collectively of these scratch lesions of the skin as traumatides. It is the merit of the modern French school of dermatologists that they have insisted on the fact that the essential disease of the prurigos is latent. By this is meant that the skin of an individual may gradually fall into certain patho- logical states of nutrition, and at the same time give no objective sign of it until provoked to do so by scratching. Then a variety of lesions arise. According to Besnier and Brocq, the form of the lesion is not controlled by the scratching, but by the individual himself. Traumatides are in themselves banal, and possess no fixed anatomical character. Their importance is de- rived from the fact that they indicate the state of nutrition of the skin at the time of the trau- matism. The following traumatides have been observed;— (1) Wheals. — Urticarial lesions may be re- garded as traumatides. They occur most readily in infants and children, and indicate a state of tension in the vaso-muscles (probably veins), which when stimulated contract spasmodically. (2) Scaly spots; these are due to the loosen- ing of the horny epidermis. (3) Excoriated red spots are formed by tearing fragments of the hard epidermis from the under- lying soft epidermis. (4) Vesico-papules or cystic papules.—These are common in childhood, adolescence, and in adults, but not so frequent in the aged. They are due to the forming of cystic cavities, with fluid contents, in the epithelium. (5) Broad hemispherical small nodules, pale at first, but later becoming red. These are characteristic of prurigo Hebrge. They are due to the formation of cystic cavities, but situated deeper beneath the horny layer. (6) Torn papules bearing at their summits a minute blood scab.—These are the commonest of all traumatides, and are met with in persons of all ages. They are a variety of the cystic papule. (7) Pustules, superficial abscesses, and boils. —These are the consequence of microbic infec- tion. They are most readily formed in persons of strumous temperament. Individuals of this class are distinguished by thick, coarse skin, with large sebaceous follicles. The lips are usually thick ("lymphatic") and the eyelids thickened. (8) " Lichenification." 1—Brocq was the first to give us, in 1891, an exact description of this form of traumatide. "When," says this 1 Besnier prefers the term lichenisation. Primary lichenification of Brocq-Jacquet corresponds to Vidal's lichen simplex chronicus circumscriptus, a term which, even in France, will soon be obsolete.