418 PULSE, THE probably does not bear any special significance. In a case of measles ushered in by violent convulsions, with a pulse of great rapidity and a temperature of over 105', this same peculiar pulse-wave during inspiration is the rule even when respiration is not much exaggerated. Forced inspiration is not always necessary to develop this feature in a child's pulse. With ordinary breath- ing it can fre- quently be de- tected in the sphygmogram. One of the best examples of this form of piilse was obtained from a youth who was suffering from a mild asthmatic seizure. There was only slight wheezing present, and the breath- ing was not really difficult. On feeling the pulse it was found that it periodically varied in Fig. 88.—Pulse with slow respiration, showing the shorter and smaller curves during inspiration type of breathing was found. But this form of respiratory curve does not seem to be present in cases of tubercular meningitis in young- children. The Pulse with Laboured Brea th- ing.—When the respiration is very rapid, as in pneumonia, the pulse-tracing may show a short and a long beat alternately —the former co- inciding with inspiration, the latter with expir- ation (Fig. 91). Pulsus Pa7-adoxus.—Kussmaul first dii^ected attention to this form of pxilse. The most Fig. 90.—The type of respiration in simple basal meningitis ; respiratory pause occurs after inspiration. ^ (Child a;t. 16 months. Pulse 144, resp. 60, temp. 100°.) Fig. 89. -Very slight respiratory variations in the pulse when the arterial pressure is high. (Tubercular meningitis, child set. 4 years.) characteristic feature is a distinct depression of the pulse-wave occurring synchronously with inspiration. This peculiar pulse was at one time supposed only to occur in cases where some pleuro-pericardiac adhesion existed. Something of the same kind has, however, been found in other condi- tions, such as simple peri- carditis with effusion, pleu- risy with effusion, in medi- astinal tumours, and in aneurysm of the thoracic aorta. Brockbank has called at- tention to its occurrence in children suffering from dyspnoea due to acute laryngitis. The writer's own experience is, that in young children this diminution of the height of the volume—so much so, indeed, that by gentle pressure on the artery the impulse seemed at times to be completely absent. Tracings were taken, and the relation of the pulse variation to the respiration was observed. Fig. 92 shows the char- acters of this pulse, and it is apparently identical in ap- pearance with the so-called "pulsus paradoxus." There was no reason to suspect adhesive mediastinitis here. So this kind of tracing must simply be regarded as an exaggerated degree of the not imcommon diminution of the pulse-wave during inspiration. Fig. 91.—Pulse and respiration in pneumonia (fatal type), showing alternate large and small pulse-waves at expiration and inspiration. Causes of the so-called Pulsus Paradoxus.—In a paper on the " Effects of Forced Inspiration on the Pulse in some Forms of Heart Disease," Irvine discusses this question pretty fully. He