PULSE, THE 397 systolic wave a contracted state of the peripheral arteries may also lead to a fairly typical division of the summit. Both waves may be of about equal size, with a notch of varying depth between them (Fig. 15). With greater peri- pheral resistance the tracing is frequently of the type shown in Fig. 16, and should the resistance become still further increased the FlQ. 15.—Modification of the systolic wave produced by moderate peripheral resistance. There are two summits of about equal size with a notch between them. (Tubercular meningitis- child jet. 5 years.) The type of pulse irregularity is also shown. pulse may become anacrotic {see p. 399). Under certain conditions, e.g. pyrexia, where the peripheral vessels are dilated and the ventricles excited, a somewhat similar summit may be formed, and is entirely due to instru- mental defects. In some cases of aortic regur- gitation without stenosis, this kind of summit is fre- quently seen (Fig. 17). The manner in which the systolic wave is broken up is in many cases suggestive, but the writer agrees with Mackenzie that it is better to discard all terms of signifi- cation in naming the vari- ous summits. There is the single heart wave—the systolic wave—and the dicrotic wave, which is dependent upon the closure of the aortic valves. Modifications in the outline of this simple form of sphygmogram may result from the participation of the other factors mentioned. they recognise, in addition to inertia waves, three heart waves. The up-stroke corresponds to a primary heart wave, and is due to the ventricular contraction; for the percussion wave of Mahomed they substitute the term papillary wave, as they believe this to be due to the late and transient contraction of the papillary muscles ; the tidal or predicrotic elevation is called the outjlo^v-remainder wave, on the gi'ound that it results from a con- tinued contraction of the heart wall, which persists longer than that of papillary muscles. Roy and Adami, in studying the pulse- curve, made use of an instrument called the sphygmometer (see Practitioner, vol. xlv. p. 29, 1890). With this instrument the authors claim that the pressure upon the artery can be regulated exactly ; that the tracings are sufficiently large to enable one to distinguish minute variations in the characters of the pulse-wave ; that the curves are free from inertia vibrations; and, lastly, that the blood pressure within the artery can be measured. Views of von Frey and von Kries.—Von Kries and von Frey, in their interpretation of the FlO. 17.—Pulse in aortic regurgitation without stenosis. The double summit of the systolic wave is of instrumental origin. Views of Roy and Adami.—The views of Roy and Adami as to the origin of the leading features of the systolic portion of the pulse- tracing may be briefly referred to; but, for the reasons in favour of such changes in nomenclature as they suggest, their paper must be consulted {Practitioner, 1890). Roy and Adami lay great stress upon the mode of cardiac contraction, and, generally speaking. Fig. 16.—Modification of the systolic wave produced by pronounced increase in peripheral resistance. (Tubercular meningitis-child set. 3i years.) pulse-curve, adopt the view that there is only a single heart wave, and that there are rebounds of this wave within the arterial system. Waves set up within an artery may rebound from the points of division of the vessel, but the chief site of rebound is the periphery of the vascular system—the capillary area. These waves modify each other by interference. Von Frey concludes that the thorough discussion of any pulse-tracing is, strictly speaking, impossible in the absence of a knowledge of the number, origin, and direc- tion of the waves which share in its pro- duction. From recent observations by Leonard Hill and others it would seem not impossible that the degree of distension of the vense comites in the radial sulcus may affect the pulse-tracing, as it may also mislead one in forming an estimate of the pulse by means of the finger. According to these observers, the radial sphygmogram must be interpreted as a pressure curve, for the movements of the lever of the sphygmograph are produced by the changes in pressure in the vessels which lie in the radial sulcus. We think undue importance has been ascribed to