RESPIRATION 509 with prolonged pauses, and the animal finally dies of asphyxia. If from any cause there be interference with the respiratory movements, or if there be ob- struction to the pulmonary circulation, or should there be any other cause, such as antemia, for example, interfering with the interchange be- tween the gases of the alveolar air and those of the blood, the resulting venous state of the blood increases the activity of the respiratory centre. The rate and depth of the respiratory movements are then increased, and the condition is known as that of hyperpnoea. Should the venous state of the blood increase in intensity, the respiration becomes more markedly difficult, and there is a condition of dyspnoea (q.v.), which, should the cause be sufficiently great and its period of duration sufficiently prolonged, passes into the state of asphyxia {vide vol. i. p. 301, and vol. vi. p. 259), and this in turn may cause death. In contrast to dyspnoea there is the condition termed apnoea, in which the respiratory move- ments are rendered shallower than normal, or brought to an entire standstill as the result of repeated, forcible inspirations. Unless the vagi be divided, apnoea is not due to excessive oxy- genation of the blood ; when these nerves are intact the apnoea is caused by the repeated in- spirations stimulating the inhibitory fibres of the vagi. The muscle fibres of the bronchi are innervated by motor fibres of the vagus. Stimulation of the peripheral end of either vagus nerve results in constriction of the bronchioles of both lungs, whilst if the vagi be intact, stimulation of sensory nerves also causes reflex contraction of the bronchial muscles. Spasm of the bronchial muscles probably causes less difficulty in the entrance of air through the bronchioles than in exit of air through them, and such spasm is the most uniformly accepted explanation regarding the natvire of asthma {q.v.). Cheyne-Stokes Respiration. — In disease considerable variations from the normal respira- tory rhythm are not uncommon. Firstly, there may be undue prolongation of inspiration or of expiration, and a condition of inspiratory or of expiratory dyspnoea (q.v.). Again, the respira- tions may be irregular, and the irregularity may be rhythmical or arhythmical in character. Respiration of the latter type is common in association with cerebral affections. In cases of cerebral hsemorrhage or tumour, for instance, the character of the respiration may be irregular, as well as slow and sighing or stertorous; whilst in the later stages of meningitis there is often an arhythmical irregularity, combined with rapidity and shallowness of the breathing. Of rhythmical irregularity there are various [ varieties. Thus the respiration may be inter- mittent, the natural rhythm being at regular intervals suddenly interrupted by a complete | pause. But the most striking variety of rhyth- mical irregularity is that termed Cheyne-Stokes respiration. In this type there ai"e two alternat- ing phases, the first one being that of apnoea, and there being a complete cessation of respira- tory movements, and the second being a period of gradually increasing and then gradually de- creasing respiratory activity. At the commence- ment of this latter phase the respiratory move- ments are feeble, faint, and shallow, but each successive respiration becomes fuller and more rapid till a maximum of forcible inspiration and expiration is attained, whereupon the rate and force of the subsequent respiratory movements gradually decrease until the breathing becomes so feeble as to be barely appreciable, and, finally, there is complete cessation of respiration. The cessation of respiratory movement, or the period of apnoea, having lasted for a variable time, the respirations commence once more in the manner described. The duration of the respiratory pause is usually about twenty, rarely more than thirty seconds, the period of activity lasts as a rule about forty or forty-five seconds, and the whole cycle extends over a period of a minute or rather more. The number of res- pirations occurring during the period of activity is subject to variation, though usually about fifteen or twenty. The above description is that of typical Cheyne-Stokes breathing, but frequently rhythmical irregularities of respira- tion do not conform exactly to the type, and are to be regarded as varieties or modifications of Cheyne-Stokes respiration. The onset of Cheyne-Stokes breathing may be sudden, as in cases of cerebral hajmorrhage or of head injury, but is usually gradual and insidious, being preceded by dyspnoea and a rhythmic irregularity of respiration. When once developed, however, it is most marked if the patient be kept thoroughly quiet and at rest, or if he be asleep, and still more so if he be unconscious. In some cases the pupil is contracted during the period of apnoea, dilated during that of dyspnoea, but in other instances the pupil is uniformly small. In some cases, further, there is an increase of blood pressure with retardation of the pulse apparent at the end of the respira- tory pause, becoming more marked during the period in which the respirations are increasing in force, and disappearing as the respiratory movements become feebler. Cheyne-Stokes respiration is seen as a symp- tom of various diseases. It is more frequently seen in association with urcBfuia than with any other condition ; it may occur in cases of acute nephritis, but is exceedingly common as one of the urfemic phenomena in the late stages of chronic Bright's disease, whether the kidneys be the seat of chronic parenchymatous nephritis, or whether there be chronic interstitial changes with arterio-sclerosis.