79 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES flesh are exposed to the gastric and pancreatic secretion, the proteins of many vegetables, unless carefully prepared, cooked, and masti- cated, are protected and escape digestion and absorption. The same may be said of the crude starch of vegetables. The digestibility and value as an article of diet of the cellulose and allied substances in plants is an important question at present requiring further investi- gation. The fats of vegetables are also generally in a less favourable state for digestion than the fats of animals. When once digested there seems to be no difference in the absorbability and assimilability of the proximate principles of vegetables and animals. A given weight of vegetable protein or vegetable fat may be substituted for the same quantity of animal protein or fat. As a result of the differences in digestibility, the availability of food-stuffs varies. The following table serves to show some of these variations:— Availability of Food-Stuffs Flesh Egg- Milk Bread Potatoes (boiled) Carrots (raw) . Protein. 98 97 89-99 88 73 61 Per Cent Absorbed. Fat. 98 98 96 Carbohydrate. 100 98 98 82 In an ordinary mixed diet the availability of the three proximate principles is about— Protein. Fat. Carbohydrate. 92 95 97 And hence in such a diet the available energy value is less than the energy value of the principles of the food as determined in the calorimeter. Thus in a mixed diet the available energy value of 1 grm. of— Protein is 4'05 calories. Fat is 8-93 Carbohydrates is 4'03 ,, The availability of almost any article of food varies with the state of the teeth and the digestive organs of the individual, with the manner in which it is eaten—whether leisurely or too rapidly and without proper mastication, and with the manner in which it is prepared. For example, the mode of manufacture of the flour used' in bread-making has a very marked influence upon the amount digested and absorbed. In vegetable foods especially the thoroughness of the cooking has a most important influence on the availability of their constituents. By assimilation is meant the taking of the food constituents from the blood by the muscle and other tissues so that they may be used. Apparently the only substances which can be freely assimilated and used by the tissues are the three proximate principles of the food, although alcohol, and possibly some other similar substances, may be utilised to a small extent. II. The Energy Requirements.—The energy requirements of the individual, which the food has to meet, vary with the age and size and with the mode of life. Size.—Other things being equal, a large man requires more energy and more pi-otein than a small man. For this reason the energy require- ments are sometimes stated as per unit of weight, but it is more convenient to take as the standard an adult man of average weight, say 65 kgs. It must further be remembered that the smaller the animal the greater the surface in proportion to its weight; and hence the greater the loss of heat per unit of weight. For this reason alone small animals and children require more energy per unit of weight than larger animals or older people. Age.—In children the metabolism is more active than in adults. They are more con- stantly in motion, they require energy and material to build up their tissues, and, as just stated, the loss of heat per unit of weight is greater than in their elders. Weight for weight, a child thus requires a greater supply of energy than a man. The following results, based upon observations on diets recorded by Camerer, illustrate this:— Age. Weight in Kilos. Energy used per Kilo in Calories. Total Energy in Calories. 4 14 91-3 1280 12 30 57-7 1730 30 66 42-4 2800 It will thus be seen that the energy require- ments of children at different ages may be stated in terms of the requirements of an adult man doing average work. Atwater formulates this as follows :— Taking a man at . . . I "0 A woman is equivalent to 0'8 of a man. A boy of 14 to 16 „ 0-8 „ A girl „ „ 0-7 „ A child 10 to 13 „ 0-6 „ ,, 6 to 9 ,, 0'5 ,, 2 to 5 „ 0-4 „ ,, under 2 ,, 0'3 ,, Mode of Life.—A person kept warm and at rest requires much less energy than if he is required to do muscular work and is exposed to cold. The energy requirements of the body under different conditions may be determined by measuring the amount of energy given off. This has been done by enclosing the indivi-