RAYNAUD'l sometimes occurs. Syphilis, hereditary or acquired, has been noted in a few cases, in certain of which antisyphilitic treatment reheved the vaso-motor symptoms. Diseases of the ne7-vous system are relatively common, being present in nearly one-fourth of reported cases. Hemiplegia is the commonest variety of nervous disease, but hydrocephalus, acromegaly, spinal tumour, aud tabes dorsalis, or such complaints as hysteria, chorea, epilepsy, and vertigo, have occurred, and the disease is certainly most frequent in neuropathic indi- viduals. Symptoms of peripheral neuritis are rare, and the pathological changes described in the peripheral nerves are probably the result and not the cause of the disease. Psychical affections, such as mania, melancholia, or dementia, are some- times present. Paroxysmal impairment of vision has been recorded, sometimes alternating with the attacks of local cyanosis. During such visual impairment the retinal arteries have been seen ophthalmoscopically to be in a state of con- traction. Morbid Anatomy. — No constant morbid changes have been authenticated in the vascular system or in the central or peripheral nervous system, and although endarteritis, arterial throm- bosis, endophlebitis, and neuritis have all been described, yet moi-e often the vessels and nerves have been found normal. Cases in which pathological changes have been found have chiefly been in limbs amputated for gangrene, in which the morbid appearances were prob- ably consequent to the gangrene and not its cause. Pathology.—The paroxysmal nature of the vascular disturbances points, as Raynaud him- self stated, to a central rather than a peripheral source for the disease. Local syncope is undoubtedly due to a local spasm of the vessels, its sudden appearance and disappearance being incompatible with any other hypothesis. The occurrence of local cyanosis has been variously explained. Raynaud attributed it to inequality between the spasm in the veins and that in the arteries, the veins regaining their normal calibre whilst the arteries still remain contracted, the cyanosis being due to the reflux of venous blood into the capillaries. He recalled the observation, in this connection, of contrac- tion of the retinal arteries during certain cases of local cyanosis. But local asphyxia often arises without a previous stage of local syncope. This can hardly be accounted for otherwise than on the hypothesis of a primary venous spasm, causing capillary stasis and cyanosis. Waves of venous spasm have actually been observed in certain cases. Hutchinson holds that the pathological process is not the same in every case, and that, just as in some healthy people cold causes pallor, whilst in others cyanosis or redness is S DISEASE ' 471 produced, so in Raynaud's disease, if the spasm is chiefly arterial, pallor results—if chiefly venous, cyanosis occurs. The sensory symptoms in the affected parts are probably due to imperfect blood-supply. The trophic changes, in the form of gangrene, are more difficult of explanation. Mere vascular spasm, however prolonged, does not readily produce necrosis of tissue, though it may seriously damage its vitality and render it less resistant to slight traumatisms. Those cases of gangrene preceded by cyanosis, but without local syncope, must be associated with an excess of venous blood, and yet profound cyanosis in other parts of the body is possible without pro- ducing gangrene. Probably the gangrene of Raynaud's disease is neuropathic in origin and analogous to the glossy skin of nerve injuries or to the bed-sores of acute myelitis. The symmetry of the affection and its par- oxysmal nature clearly point, as Raynaud indicated, to a central affection, probably an increased excitability of the vaso-motor centres, rather than to any mere peripheral lesion. The disease is thus an angio-neurosis, in which the nervous system is primarily at fault. The cause of such increased excitability of the vaso-motor centres appears to vary in different cases. Thus the condition may be congenital in cases where there is a nervous heredity, or it may result from various patho- logical influences, for example cold, long- continued or frequently repeated. Or it may be the direct result of toxins acting on the nerve centres, as in fevers, syphilis, malaria, or intestinal obstruction, or it may conceivably be reflex from peripheral sources. Finally, Raynaud's disease may occur in the course of organic diseases of the central nervous system, in which, along with other structures, the vaso-motor centres happen to be implicated. Diagnosis.—A well-marked case of Raynaud's disease usually presents no difficulty in diag- nosis ; it is chiefly with abortive or atypical forms of the disease that one is in doubt. Thus a paroxysm of erythromelalgia may re- semble the rarer variety of Raynaud's disease in which redness is present instead of cyanosis. In some cases the diagnosis between the two conditions is so difficult as to be impossible, and the greater the number of cases observed, the more arbitrary does the division between them appear. The occurrence of trophic changes, however, in a doubtful case would tend to place it under the category of Raynaud's disease. Morvan's disease, a variety of syringomyelia, with marked trophic changes in the fingers and toes, is not paroxysmal, but of slow onset. It is less strikingly symmetrical than Raynaud's disease, and is, moreover, accompanied by dis- sociated sensory paralysis and often by nniscular atrophy. Painless abscesses and whitlows, together with necrosis of bone, are common in