62 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES the HCl acts slightly in converting it to gelatin. The gastric juice acts on gelatin, converting it to a gelatin peptone. On micleo-proteins it acts by digesting the protein part and leaving the mvcleiii un- dissolved. Hcemoglohin is broken down into hfematin and globin, and the latter is changed into peptone. The caseinogeii calcium compound of milk is first coagulated and then changed to peptone. The coagulation is brought about by the presence of the second enzyme of the gastric juice—rennin. This may be separated from pepsin in various ways, and, unlike pepsin, it acts in a neutral medium. The change set up by it seems to be due to a splitting of the soluble calcic compound of caseinogen which exists in milk into calcic paracasein, which is insoluble and is thrown down, and a small quantity of whey albumin which remains in solution. The nuclein part of the paracasein remains undigested. The gastric juice contains an enzyme which splits fats into fatty acids and glycerine if they are in a very fine state of subdivision, as in milk, but it has no action on fats not so subdivided. When fats are contained in the protoplasm of cells, they are set free by the digestion of the protein covering. On carbohydrates the free mineral acid of the gastric juice has a slight action at the body temperature, splitting the polysaccharids and disaccharids into monosaccharids. (c) Digestion of the Stomach Wall.—When the wall of the stomach lies either in whole, as after the death of the animal, or in part, as when an artery is occluded or ligatured, the dead part is digested by the gastric juice and the wall of the stomach may be perforated. In the living condition a substance may be extracted from the mucous membrane which antagonises the action of pepsin and may be called antipepsin. (d) Antiseptic Action of the Gastric Juice.— In virtue of the presence of free HCl the gastric juice has a marked action in inhibiting the growth of, or in killing bacteria. The bacillus of cholera is peculiarly susceptible, and a healthy condition of the stomach is thus a great safeguard against the disease. Other organisms, while they do not multiply in the stomach, pass on alive to the intestine, where they may again become active. When HCl is not formed in sufficient quantities to exist free in the stomach, the activity of these bacteria in the organ may lead to various decompositions and to many of the symptoms of dyspepsia. (e) Source of the Constituents of the Gastric Juice.—The hydrochloric acid is formed at the cardiac end of the stomach. This may be shown by isolating a part of the stomach so that it opens on the surface. Since the parietal or oxyntic cells are confined to this portion of the stomach, it may be concluded that they are the producers of the acid. They manu- facture it from the NaCl of the blood plasma. Probably the COg liberated in the cells seizes on some of the Na and turns out HCl. The Pepsin and Rennin are produced in the chief or peptic cells which line the glands both of the cardiac and pyloric parts of the stomach. During fasting granules are seen to accumulate in these cells, and when the stomach is active they are discharged. These granules are not pepsin but the forerunner of pepsin — pepsinogen. (/) Influence of Various Diets upon the Gastric Juice.—This has been chiefly worked out by PavlofF on dogs with a gastric pouch (p. 60). He finds that—(1) The amount of secretion depends upon the amount of food taken. (2) The amount and course of secretion varies with the kind of food taken. Thus, with flesh the secretion reaches its maximum at the end of one hour, persists for an hour and then rapidly falls, while with bread it reaches its maximum at the end of one hour, rapidly falls, but persists for a much longer period than in the case of flesh. (3) The digestive activity of the juices varies with the kind of food and with the course of digestion. It is higher and per- sists longer after a diet of bread, which is difficult to digest, than after a diet of flesh, which is more easily digested. (4) The per- centage of acid does not vai-y markedly. When more acid is required more gastric juice is secreted. (5) The work done by the gastric glands is greater in the digestion of bread than in the digestion of flesh. {g) Nervous Mechanism of Gastric Secretion.— It has been proved that in the dog the secretion of gastric juice can go on after the nerves to the stomach have been divided, and this has been ascribed to a reflex stimulation of the nerve plexus in the submucosa. But this mechanism plays a small part compared with the influences of the central nervous system through the vagus. Pavloff" finds that, when the vagus is cut below the origin of the cardiac nerves so that they are not acted upon, and the animal left undisturbed for some days, stimulation of the nerve with a slowly inter- rupted induced current causes, after a long latent period of a minute or two, a flow of gastric juice. This vagus action may be called into play either by the contact of suitable food with the mouth or by the sight of food. This, he demonstrated by making an oesophageal fistula in a dog with a gastric pouch, so that food put in the mouth escaped from the gullet and did not pass into the stomach (Fig. 162). Mere