RHEUMATISM—RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS 569 Pye Smith believes the change to be of a senile nature. Ord has referred the joint affection to peri- pheral irritation from such various sources as acute rheumatism, gout, traumatism, gonorrhoea, and utero-ovarian disorders, the cord being in a condition of excessive irritability due to ansemia, general exhaustion, or the climacteric. This theory regards the joint affection as the result of reflex irritation of the cord rather than of definite structural change. That joint affections do arise in connection with gross cord lesions is shown by the occur- rence of Charcot's disease in tabes, and by the trophic joint-changes in syringomyelia. The presence of atrophy of muscles, often extreme, and other associated symptoms, such as abnormal sweating, pigmentation of skin, numbness and tingling, glossy skin, are im- portant evidences of nervous influence. FoUi in 2 cases found some wasting of the cells of the anterior cornua of the cord, and in a few cases changes in the peripheral nerves have been seen. It is, however, a fact of over- whelming weight that no lesion of the cord or nerves has been found constantly which is capable of explaining the condition of the joint or muscle. Atrophy of muscles occurs also in other joint aifections (tubercular and gonor- rhoeal), in which no question of a central origin is raised. It has been suggested that the nervous pheno- mena are due to the effect on nerve tissue of toxins circulating in the blood produced by micro-organisms in the joints. The evidence on which this theory is based is briefly as follows:— (a) That acute cases have points of resem- blance to microbic diseases. (b) That acute cases have followed closely some infective illness, such as scarlatina, in- fluenza, acute tonsillitis, otitis media, suppura- tion behind a dental plate, bone disease, gonor- rhoea. (c) That micro-organisms have been found in the joints by Schiiller, Bannatyne and Wohlmann, Chauffard and Ramond, von Dun- gern and Schneider, and others, which are con- sidered by them to be the cause of the disease. It is probable that previous infective diseases, such as those enumerated, "play some im- portant part in predisposing the tissues to afford an entrance, as well as a suitable nidus for the development of the bacteria" (Bannatyne). If acute rheumatism comes to be included among the infective illnesses, as is in the highest degree probable, the significance of its occur- rence in relation to rheumatoid arthritis would be rendered clearer. If the origin of rheumatoid arthritis be bac- terial it may be due— (a) To a specific microbe in the joint, the secondary symptoms (atrophy, etc.) being due to the action of its poisons circulating in the blood. (0) To an intoxication due possibly to a variety of infections, i.e. that of gonorrhoea, rheumatism, pysemia, etc. Bannatyne, working with Wohlmann and Bloxall, found a very minute organism in the synovial fluid, membranes, cartilage, and bony debris, and rarely in the blood. It is a bacillus measuring 2 /x to 6 /a. It stains deeply at the two ends, the intervening portion remaining unstained. It may be stained by gentian violet, methyl violet, or carbolic fuchsin, but staining requires care. It grows best in peptone meat broth, and in culture has the appearance of gold dust. It grows also in milk, on agar- agar, and Loeffler's serum. Inoculation experi- ments have not been satisfactory. This organ- ism has been found in no other joint aff'ection, but has been found by Bannatyne in practically every case examined of rheumatoid arthritis of the acute polyarticular variety. Bannatyne did not find it in the chronic variety with lipping and bony outgrowth. Chauffard and Ramond found a micro-organ- ism short and thin, a diplo-bacillus, having much the appearance of a diplo-coccus. It stains with difficulty, and grows only in syn- ovial fluid. Inoculation produces no results. Von Dungern and Schneider obtained eight- een hours after death an organism from the fluid of the knee, wrist, and other joints, and also from the mucus of the gall-bladder. The organism was a small micrococcus closely re- lated to B. lanceolatus. Injected into the knee joint of rabbits it produced lesions similar to those in the joints from which it was taken. The authors regard this organism as the chief cause of chronic arthritis in the case described, and believe that the infection was from a chronically inflamed gall-bladder. It took Gram's stain, and grew best on glucose bouillon. Schiiller finds in the acute form only—the form which he calls arthritis chronica villosa— a short bacillus with polar enlargement 2"6 fx by -75 IX broad. It stains readily by ordinary methods, especially carbolic fuchsin, but de- colorises easily. It grows on gelatine at 25° C, and on agar as a greyish film. Schiiller finds this bacillus in the synovial tissue and fluid of the joint, and his results are chiefly obtained from living tissues removed by operation. It is present sometimes in company with micrococci, or with the gonococcus. He has not found the organism in the chronic form with bony out- growth and lipping, for which he reserves the name arthritis deformans. Cultures of this bacillus have been injected by Schiiller into the joints of rabbits, and he succeeded in producing the same villous formations in the synovial membrane which he describes in the human subject. Schiiller states that for the last fifteen years