65 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES cause solid proteins to swell up, but simply erodes them away. Fibrin and similar bodies first pass into the condition of soluble native proteins and then into deutero^roteose, while boiled egg white appears at once to yield deutero- proteose. The deutero-proteose is then changed into peptone, and part of that peptone is then split into a series of bodies which no longer give the biuret test. These consist chiefly of the component amido-acids, of which the most important are leucin and tyrosin, and of am- monia compounds (see vol. vii. p. 491). Amido-acetic acid linked to skatol—trypto- phane—is also split off, and if chlorine water is added to a pancreatic digestion which has proceeded for a long time, a rose-red colour is struck {see p. 88). On nucleo-proteins trypsin acts by digesting the protein and dissolving the nucleic acid so that it can be absorbed. On collagen and elastin trypsin has little action ; but on gelatin it acts as upon proteins. 2nd. An Amylolytic Enzyme—Amylopsin or Diastase.—This acts in the same way as ptyalin, but more powerfully, converting a certain part of the maltose into dextrose. It acts best in a faintly acid medium. ?>rd. A Fat-splitting Enzyme—Lipase.—-This is the most easily destroyed and the most difficult to separate of the zymins. It breaks the fats into their component glycerin and fatty acids. The fatty acids link with the alkalies which are present to form soaps, and in this form, or dissolved as free fatty acids in the bile, they are absorbed. But the formation of soaps also assists the digestion of fats by reducing them to a state of finely divided par- ticles, an emulsion, upon which the lipase can act more freely. This process of emulsification is assisted by the presence of protein in the pancreatic juice and also by the presence of bile. That these enzymes are independent of one another is shown by many facts. (1) Diastase does not appear till about a month after birth. (2) Diastase is taken up by dry glycerin, while trypsin is not. (3) Trypsin may be precipitated and separ- ated by shaking with collodion. (4) Trypsin acts in O'Ol per cent ammonia while diastase does not. (5) The proportion of the zymins varies with the character of the diet. This is well shown by experiments carried out in PavlofFs laboratory upon dogs with pancreatic fistulse. The effects of diets of milk, bread, and flesh were compared, in each case the amount of the food given containing the same amount of nitrogen (protein). The total quantity of ferment unit is got by multiplying the quantity of juice in c.cm. by the strength of the juice, determined by ascertaining how much of the substance is digested by unit of the VOL. VIII secretion in unit of time. The following table and Fig. 165 indicate the results obtained :— Diet. Quantity of Enzyme. Proteo- lytic. Amylo- lytic. Fat- splitting. Bread, 250 grm. Milk, 600 c.c. . Flesh, 100 grm. . 1978 1085 1502 1601 432 648 800 4334 3600 TRYPSIN DIASTASE LIPASE I ' ' = BREAD MILK FLESH Z.SOGftHS 60OCCS JOOQKNS FIG. 165.—To show the relative amounts of the three enzymes of the pancreatic juice formed on different diets. Bread contains a protein difficult of digestion, plenty of starch, and little fat. Milk contains an easily digested protein, and plenty of fat, but no starch; while flesh contains a compara- tively easily digested protein, no starch, and a moderate amount of fat. The first food causes a copious production of trypsin and diastase, and little lipase. The second causes the pro- duction of less trypsin, little diastase, but most lipase. The last causes a moderate production of trypsin, little diastase, and a comparatively large amount of lipase. As to the mode of production of these enzymes, it is known that trypsin is not formed as such in the cells, for the secretion direct from the acini has no tryptic action. A forerunner of trypsin—^trypsinogen—is produced, and this changes into trypsin after it is secreted. The intestinal secretion contains something of the nature of an enzyme which has been termed enterokinase, which has the power of bringing about this change. It is doubtful whether the pancreatic secre- tion contains any true rennin, although it pro- duces a modified clotting of milk, under certain conditions. 5