RESTIFORM 511 Restiform. — Cord-like (Lat. restis, a rope), e.g. the restiform body of the medulla oblongata. See Physiology, Neuro-Muscular Mechanism {Medulla Oblongata, Structure). Restitution, Movement of.—In obstetrics this term is applied to the movement which the head (or other presenting part) makes after its expulsion from the vulva; it carries the occiput back to the side of the maternal pelvis where it lay before internal rotation took place. See Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism (^Presentations of the Vertex). Resuscitation. See Asphyxia {Re- suscitation) ; Medicine, Forensic {Deaths from Asphyxia). Retained IVIenses. — Cryptomenor- rhoea. See Menstruation and its Disorders {Retention of the Menses). Retellingf. See Anesthesia, Chloro- form (Vomiting and Retching); Emetics ; Physiology, Food and Digestion {Digestion in the Stomach, Vomiting); etc. Rete.—A net-like structure, such as the rete testis of the testicle and the rete Malpighii of the skin. Retention.—The holding back of any- thing ; e.g. the retention of ui'ine {see Micturi- tion), of the decidual membranes {see Abor- tion), of the dead foetus {see Pregnancy, Intra- uterine Diseases and Death), or of the placenta {see Labour, Retention of Placenta). Reticulum.—A fine network; also, the second stomach of ruminants. Retina and Optic Nerve. Anatomy 511 General Pathology . . . .512 Inflammation . . . . .513 Atrophy ...... 517 Injuries ...... 520 Tumours ...... 520 Congenital Abnormalities . . . 520 See also kMBiiYO'eiK {Toxic, Urcemia, Retinitis); Brain, Physiology {Optic Nerve); Choroid, Diseases of {Choroiditis, Diagnosis; Sarcoma, Diagnosis; Tubercular Disease; Retinal Separ- ation) ; Colour Vision {Retinitis); Diabetes Mellitus {Symptoms of the Bye); Eyeball, Injuries of {Commotio Retinae); Glaucoma {Secondary, Causes of); Gout {Irregular, Eye); Malaria {Pernicious Attacks, Retinal Hmmor- rhauges); Nephritis {Clinical Features, Chronic, Retinal Changes); Ocular Muscles, Affections of {Nystagmus, Causes); Physiology, Neuro- muscular Mechanism {Vision, Stimulation of the Reti7ia); Pigments of the Body {Melanins, Fuscin); Pupil ; Syphilis {Tertiary, Eye Affec- tions, In Children, Retinitis); Trades, Danger- ous {Lead-Poisoning, Eye Changes); Typhoid Fever {Complicatio7is, Ocular); Vision, Field of {Retinitis Pigmentosa) ; Vitreous Humour, Diseases of {Haemorrhage, Retinitis Proliferans). Affections of the Optic Nerve Anatomy.—On leaving the eyeball the optic nerve courses backwards to the apex of the orbit, and then, passing through the optic canal, enters the cranial cavity. It now very soon joins its fellow of the opposite side, their junction forming the optic commissure or chiasma, where an important redistribution of nerve-fibres takes place. The newly distributed fibres, leaving the commissure, are again collected into bundles, now called the optic tracts, which pass backwards between the temporal lobes and the crura cerebri. In the first and greater part of its orbital course the nerve is surrounded by fat, but deeper in the orbit it comes into closer proximity to the muscles arising from the apex, and at the optic foramen the nerve is in close relation with their tendons of origin.^ About midway in its passage through the orbit the nerve receives the central vessels, which enter it from beneath and then run forward in its axis. Until it gains the interior of the cranial cavity the optic nerve is protected by a thick, loosely fitting outer sheath. The ophthalmic artery accompanies the optic nerve in its passage through the optic canal, which latter affords little more than bare space for these structures to pass. It is important to observe that the bony plate forming the inner wall of the canal is very thin, and that this alone separates the optic nerve-sheath from the sphenoidal sinus. The chiasma rests on the optic groove ; above it the third ventricle is situated. The internal carotid arteries lie on either side, while close behind it is the pituitary body. If we now examine the optic nerve more particularly, we find that in the optic canal and orbit it is surrounded by a tubular prolongation of the meninges, and we can recognise a dural, pial, and arachnoidal sheath. The dural sheath surrounds the nerve loosely, while the pial sheath is closely applied; the interval between these (intervaginal space) is subdivided by a fine prolongation of the arachnoid into two parts, subdural and subarachnoid, which com- municate with the corresponding intracranial spaces. The highly vascular pial sheath sends processes inwards, which form a framework separating the bundles of nerve-fibres. Between each mesh of this framework and the nerve- 1 These tendons of the superior and internal recti are closely incorporated with the optic nerve-sheath, and owing to this relation it has been asserted that move- ments of these muscles are particularly liable to cause pain in cases of retro-ocular neuritis implicating the nerve-sheaths in this locality.