EHEUMATISM, CHRONIC 576 drinks too little, or, to put it more accurately, he does not get the opportunity of drinking enough. Here, then, we have a clinical picture of disease, the prototype of which comes within daily observation of the medical practitioner. (6) Subacute. — Subacute manifestations of rheumatism are extremely common, and in this group we find the most striking illustrations of metastasis. These metastatic manifestations are frequently of an acute nature, with pain, effusion, and elevation of temperature, but to a much less degree than is characteristic of the acute cases previously described. (c) Abarticular Type.—This group includes acute and chronic cases. The former are char- acterised by acute pain and swelling of the tendons and other soft tissues in the neighbour- hood of a joint. The symptoms may be so severe as to prevent the animal rising for several days. This type of disease is not, as a rule, accompanied by any febrile reaction. The chronic group includes many cases of "spavin," "ringbone," and other conditions characterised by local formation of new tissue of a bony or other nature in the neighbourhood of joints. Mention must also be made of cases of lameness that are supposed, by a process of exclusion, to be de- pendent on a neuritis of a " constitutional" or " rheumatic " nature. {d) Rheumatoid or Osteo-Arthritis. —As al- ready indicated, this term is applied to the more severe type of cases of chronic rheumatism, when the articular changes are more advanced and of a more markedly hypertrophic nature. The subjects in this group show greater muscular weakness, and usually advanced local muscular atrophy. It is important to note that this dis- ease is sometimes well developed in quite young- subjects ; a few cases have been recorded from zoological collections. It will be seen from the foregoing that, so far as clinical features are concerned, the diseases of a "rheumatic" origin in horses correspond very closely to the same diseases in the human subject. What differences exist are probably of degree rather than of kind, and are readily ex- plained by the different life-histories of the two subjects. When we turn to the pathology we will find that the comparison holds good. Pathology.—The writer has examined many of these cases (groups a and d), and has found that the joint changes are very similar to those encountered in cases of chronic rheumatism and rheumatoid arthritis in man. In many cases the description of joints in chronic rheumatism (vol. iv. p. 242) may be fitly applied. In others the appearances more closely resemble those recorded for osteo-arthritis in its earlier stages (vol. viii. p. 567), and also the lucid description of traumatic arthritis given by Arbuthnot Lane. So far as the writer's observations go, the morbid anatomy hardly warrants any distinct classifica- tion. The differences appear to be of degree rather than of kind. This subject is further referred to under etiology. Treatment.—-It is beyond the province of this article to refer to treatment except in one particular. We have already seen that clinical experience and pathological investigation show a close parallel between these affections in the lower animals and in man. Confirmatory evi- dence is obtained from the field of therapeutics. To speak generally, veterinary surgeons treat these affections in one of two ways : (a) by rest and the adoption of local measures, mainly of a counter-irritant nature, and {b) by a limited amount of exercise, a laxative diet, and plenty of water. The balance of opinion is in favour of the latter course—a fact not without its lessons to the medical practitioner. With re- gard to diet, if space had allowed, many interest- ing facts could be quoted regarding " chronic rheumatism " in other animals, e.g. pigs, and the relationship of diet to that condition. Morbid Anatomy.—The naked eye features of a chronic rheumatic joint in the human sub- ject are very similar to those met with in the lower animals. In both the joints are unnatur- ally dry; when fluid is present, it is altered in colour and consistence. There is the same tendency to irregular enlargement of the artic- ular ends of the bones. The tendons and tendon sheaths in the neighbourhood of the joints show the same congestion of vessels and evidences of recent and old cell proliferation. The cartilages may be thickened or thinned, and may show vascularisation and ulceration. The synovial membranes show a varying degree of thickening and undue vascularity, and in some cases irregular villous projections. There is a further correspondence between the two classes of rheumatic subjects in that no two cases, and even no two joints in the same case, present exactly the same appearance. This close parallelism, however, is of little value for the etiology of the disease. The gross struc- tural changes which take place in the affected joints must be set in relation to the other changes induced in the tissues, and it is probable that the facts of a more general morbid anatomy will prove of much greater importance for the discovery of the cause of chronic rheumatism than the facts of those articular changes to which attention has been too exclusively con- fined. With regard to the remaining vital constituent of the morphological joint unit—the marrow— I know of no observations on the human subject as to the state of this very important tissue in this disease. In the course of an examination of many subjects in comparative pathology in which symptoms of rheumatism had been present, the writer has frequently seen definite gross changes in the bony system other than the articular ends. These changes were mainly of the nature of (a) altered colour and appear-