QUEBRACHO 455 quebrachin (CgiHjgNgOg), which in small doses in- crease the fulness and frequency of the respira- tion, and in larger doses paralyse it; it is not now officinal, but it was formerly in the B.P., and there was a tinctura quebracho which was used in dyspnoea in doses of | to 1 fl. dr. Quercin.—A bitter carbohydrate, CgHg(OH)g, obtained from acorns. Quercite.—A sweet carbohydrate, known as oak-sugar or acorn-sugar, having the formula CgH,(0H)5. QuerCUS Cortex.—Oak bark, obtained from Quercus robur, is not now official in the B.P.; it was formerly employed to prepare the Decoctum Quercus, which was employed (on account of its contained tannin) as an astringent. Quickening^. — The feeling of life, or stirrage, usually detected by the pregnant woman about the mid-term of gestation. See Pregnancy, Diagnosis (Symptoms). Quicksilver. See Mercury; Trades, Dangerous (Mercury). Quilia.ise Cortex.—Panama bark, soap bai'k ; obtained from the tree Quillaja saponaria. Its chief constituent is a glucoside, saponin. Preparation—Tinctura Quillaise. Dose—J-1 5- The tincture of quillaia might be used for emulsifying oils and other insoluble substances, but other more suitable agents are generally employed for this purpose. On account of the saponin present it has an expectorant action similar to that of senega, and has been recom- mended highly by some for bronchitis and other chest conditions. Quincke's Disease. See Angeio- NEUROTIC OEDEMA. Quincke's Lumbar Puncture. See Meningitis, Epidemic Cbrbbro - spinal {Diagnosis); Spine, Surgical Affections of {Lumbar Puncture). Quincke's IVIethod. — A mode of estimating the total quantity of blood. See Blood {Methods of Clinical Examination, General). Quinidina. See Alkaloids {Vegetable): Pharmacology ; Quinine ; etc. Quinine. See also Alkaloids; Ambly- opia {Toxic) \ Colour Vision {Acquired Colour Blindness, Causes); Drug Eruptions {Quinine); HEMOGLOBINURIA {Toxic); PURPURA {Symptom- atic, Toxic); Tinnitus Aurium {Treatment).— An alkaloid obtained from the bark of one of the numerous species of the genus Cinchona. The official form is the Red Cinchona Bark— Cinchona Rubre Cortex—which contains (in addition to quinine) quinidine, cinchonine, cinchonidine, and other substances of less importance. Good bark should contain between 5 and 6 per cent of alkaloids, of which at least half should consist of quinine and cinchonidine. Quinine is the most important of the group, and its physiological action is practically the same as that of the others. The dose of the bark is 3-15 grs.; and 30-120 grs. in malaria. Pre- parations—1. Extractum Cinchonfe Liquidum. Contains 5 per cent of alkaloids. Dose— 5-15 m. 2. Tinctura Cinchonte. Contains 1 per cent of alkaloids. Dose — J-1 3. 3. Tinctura Cinchonte Composita. Contains | per cent of alkaloids. Dose—^-1 3. 4. Infusuni Cinchonse Acidum. Prepared with aromatic sulphuric acid, and is a solution of the sulphates of the alkaloids. Dose—^-1 These prepara- tions must all be made from red bark. Quinine, is official in the form of its salts, which may be prepared from any member of the cinchona group. 1. Quinines Sulphas. Slightly flexible, filiform, snow-white crystals, soluble 1 in 800 of water (giving it a fluorescent, bluish tinge), easily in acidulated water. Dose—1-5 grs. as a bitter; 5-20 grs. as an antiperiodic and antipyretic. Preparations — 1. Tinctura Quininse Ammoniata. Dose—^-1 3. 2. Pilula Quininee Sulphatis. Dose—2-8 grs. 3. Ferri et Quininse Citras. Dose—5-10 grs. 4. Syrupus Ferri Phosphatis cum Quinina et Strychnina. 4 gr. in each drachm. Dose—1-1 3- II. Quin- ines Hydrochloridum. Soluble 1 in 35 of cold water. Dose—1-10 grs. Preparations—1. Tinc- tura Quininae. Dose—1-1 3. 2. Vinum Quininse. Dose—^-1 5. III. QuinincB Hydrochloridum Acidum. A white crystalline powder soluble in less than its own weight of water. Dose—1-10 grs. There are also other non-official salts in use, including the bisulphate, the hydrobromide, the chlorate, the citrate, the lactate, the phos- phate, the salicylate, and the valerianate. Mar- burg's Tincture (Tinctura Antiperiodica) has a high reputation in India for malaria. It con- tains aloes, rhubarb, camphor, and opium, along with many aromatics. As it is rather apt to purge it may be prescribed without aloes. Quinine is a powerful antiseptic, but it is too expensive to be used for this purpose. Internally it is administered for three chief purposes—as an antiperiodic or antimalarial, as an antipyretic, and as a tonic. In malaria it is a specific, its action being directly poisonous to the Plasmod- ium malariae in the blood. The amount given varies greatly, and must be decided upon ac- cording to the indications from the state of the particular patient. Its administration should be preceded, if possible, by a cholagogue purge. It may be given in hourly doses or in single large doses so timed that they will begin to have effect about half an hour befoi'e the ex- pected paroxysm. If the attack is imminent, it should be taken in solution. Even after the