PRESCRIBING, AND METHODS OF ADMINISTERING DRUGS 307 formed into pills with the addition of a little alcohol. Creosote may be made into a pill with breadcrumb, and potassium permanganate or nitrate of silver with kaolin. After being prepared, pills are coated in various ways, but this is purely a pharmaceutical matter. When it is desired that the drug shall act only in the intestine the pill should be coated with salol or keratin. (4) Powders.—Insoluble substances, and those which would be incompatible with each other in fluid form, may be ordered as powders. If only a very small dose of a drug is given—e.g. \ grain of calomel — the powder should be brought up to a convenient bulk by adding some inert substance such as milk sugar. Small powders may be given dry on the tongue or in a spoonful of milk ; otherwise it is well to order them to be dispensed in cachets, which have almost entirely superseded wafer papers. Cachets consist of two watch-glass shaped pieces of wafer paper, the margins of which cohere on being moistened. They are adapted for insoluble or nauseous powders which it is inadvisable to dispense in fluid form, such as quinine, phenacetin, salacetic acid, salol, saccha- rated carbonate of iron, etc. They should be moistened before being swallowed. Quantities up to 20 or even 30 grains of powder can be dispensed in a cachet. Tablets.—Many powders can be conveniently prescribed in tablets, and a number of pharma- cists are now able to dispense these according to any desired formula. It should be noted that the word " tabloid " is a proprietary trade name, and if it be used the preparations of the firm which invented it must be supplied. When a prescription is to be made up in tablet form the direction to the dispenser is " Dispense in tablets," or "Fiat tabella. Mitte tales . . ." Hygroscopic or deliquescent salts should not be prescribed in tablets; the average amount which can be conveniently compounded thus is from 5 to 10 grains. Chocolate, known in pharmacy as pasta theo- bromatis, is, apart from its flavour, a very suitable basis for some tablets. The solvent action of its fats renders it useful for fixing nitroglycerine, menthol, and alkaloids, also for pepsin, santonin, bismuth, and iron (Martindale). (5) Capsules.—Gelatine capsules are now largely used as a means of concealing the taste of unpleasant drugs. They are made to contain amounts up to a drachm, but except for castor oil such large sizes are seldom used. In most cases the dose is 5, 10, or 20 minims. Not all drugs, however, can be dispensed in capsules. Thus any solid which is at all hygroscopic will absorb water from and burst the gelatine cover- ing it. Again, watery fluids cannot be retained in a capsule. When, as is often the case, such nauseous preparations as watery solutions con- taining viburnum are ordered in this form, the pharmacist has to evaporate the mixture before filling the capsule. This necessitates loss, and enhances the cost considerably. On the other hand, all forms of oil, and drugs insoluble in water may appropriately be prescribed in capsule. (6) Granula?- Effervescent Preparations. — Several of these are official, but there are in addition a number of salts which may be pre- scribed in this form. Some of these are— antipyrin, Carlsbad salts, the citrates of caffeine, iron, lithium, magnesium, and others; the sali- cylates of lithium and sodium, salicylic acid, etc. The dose of all is about a drachm. (7) Confections.—The use of confections is somewhat limited, but they should not be forgotten in prescribing for children. Aperients such as manna and sulphur, hsematinics such as reduced iron, and other drugs in which a certain laxity of dosage is permissible, may be given with confection of roses or honey. II. By Mucous Membranes in General A. Throat and Respiratory Tract.—(1) In- halations. — These are given by adding the desired quantity—about half a drachm—of any volatile drug to a jug of boiling water, and telling the patient to respire the vapour. Special inhalers may also be used. Among the commoner drugs employed in this manner, creosote, carbolic acid, terebene, pine oil, iodine, and friars' balsam may be enumerated. It is sometimes {e.g. in the case of menthol) advisable to use an alcoholic solution of the drug in this way. (2) Vapours constitute another means by which the same end can be attained. A small quantity of a volatile substance, such as crude phenol, is placed in a metal evaporating dish, and gently warmed by a spirit-lamp or night- light. The vapour is thus allowed to escape continuously into the air of the sick-room. A vaporiser of this description is chiefly used in lung diseases with foetid expectoration, and in whooping cough. Similar drugs may be employed at ordinary temperatures by dropping them on a suitable respirator worn by the patient. A method of inhalation by compressed air has been employed in pulmonary phthisis. The patient sits in a cabinet into which air laden with the vapour of creosote is pumped under pressure. Fumigations, or inhalations of medicated smoke, are much used in the treatment of asthma. (3) Gargles are watery solutions of drugs used for the sake of their local action on the throat. The average quantity employed on each occasion is ^ to 1 ounce. They usually contain alkaline, antiseptic, or astringent drugs, or combinations of these. Rose water may be used as a vehicle to render them more palatable, and some glycerine added to increase their viscosity.