PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 6 are different in acid and alkaline media. In acid media it has a spectrum closely resembling methsemoglobin, but it can at once be distin- guished by the fact that it is not changed by re- ducing agents. In medicine it is sometimes im- j^ortant to distinguish between these pigments since both iiiay appear in the urine. Hsematin in alkaline solution can take up and give off oxygen in the same way as hfemoglobin does. Reduced alkaline htematin or hcemochromogen has a very definite spectrum (Fig. Ill), and its preparation affords a ready means of detecting old blood stains. Hfematin contains the iron of the htemo- globin, and it is this pigmented iron-containing part of the molecule which has the affinity for oxygen. Apparently it is the presence of iron which gives it this property, because, if the iron be removed by means of sulphuric acid, a purple- coloured substance, iron-free Juematin—hcemato- porjjhyrin—is formed, which has no affinity for oxygen. This pigment occurs in the urine in some pathological conditions. One point of great interest in the chemistry of haematin and its derivatives is that they, like the green chlorophyl of plants, yield upon de- composition bodies belonging to the pyrrhol group. In the liver, hfemogiobin is broken down to form bilirubin and the other bile pigments. These are iron-free, and, like iron-free hajmatin, do not take up and give off oxygen. But not only is this iron-free pigment formed from haemoglobin in the liver, but the cells of any part of the body have the facility of changing hfemoglobin in blood extravasations into a pig- ment known as lufmatoidin, which is really the same as bilirubin. H(Bmin—the hydrochloride of hsematin—is formed when blood is heated with sodium chloride and glacial acetic acid. It crystallises in small steel-black rhombic crystals, and its formation is sometimes used as a test of blood stains. The following table shows the relationship of these pigments to one another :— IV. Gases of the Blood The muscles and other active tissues are constantly consuming oxygen and constantly giving off carbon dioxide. The oxygen must be brought to the tissues by the blood, and the carbon dioxide carried away by the same medium. Various methods of carrying out the examina- tion of the gases of the blood have been devised, and many different gas-pumps have been in- vented in which the gases may be collected in the Torricellian vacuum over mercury. Haldane and Barcroft have devised a convenient method, which depends npon the fact that the oxygen can be driven off from blood treated with dilute ammonia by the addition of potas- sium ferricyanide, and tliat the carbon dioxide is liberated by adding an acid. The amount of gas is estimated by measuring the increased pressure in the tube in which the gas has been given off. About 60 c.c. of gas measured at 0° C. and 760 mm. pressure can be extracted from 100 c.c. of blood. The proportion of the gases varies in arterial and in venous blood. Amount of Gases per Hundred Volumes OF Blood Venous Blood. 12 46 Oxygen Carbon dioxide Arterial Blood. 20 40 may be Relationship of Hb -HbO< Methsemoglobin and its Derivatives HbCO Hb I Hsematin Globin Acid Hsematin Alkaline Hsematin Oxidised Iron-free Hsematin (Hsematoporphyrin) Reduced (Hsemochromogen) Hsematoidin Bilirubin There are two ways in which gases held in such a fluid as the blood— \st. In simple solution. '2nd. In chemical combination. Oxygen.—At the temperature of the body the blood can hold in solution less than 1 per cent of oxygen. Now the amount of oxygen actually present is about 20 per cent; so that by far the greater quantity of the gas is not in solution. We have already seen that it is in loose chemical union with hsemoglobin. Carbon Dioxide. — In the animal body the blood can dis- solve about 2^ per cent of carbon dioxide. But it may contain as much as 46 per cent, and this is uniformly distributed between plasma and corpuscles. Hence the greater part of the gas must be in chemical combination. Analysis of the ash of the plasma shows that tlie sodium is more than sufficient to com- bine with the chlorine and phosphoric acid, and is thus available to take up carbon di- oxide, as the carbonate Na.jCOg and the bicarbonate NaHCOj. Sodium carbonate and basic ; Contain Iron. Iron-free.