PRESCRIBING, AND METHODS OF ADMINISTERING DRUGS 309 skin, as it may cause scarring. Cantharides may be ordered as the plaster, to be applied at night and kept on for six or eight hours, and followed by a linseed poultice if need be. The liquor epispasticus may also be used. Great care ought always to be taken in the use of strong counter-irritants in children, since in conditions of debility, such as follow acute diseases, particularly measles, sloughing of the skin readily takes place. More powerful than any of the preceding are Escharotics such as lunar caustic, strong nitric acid, caustic potash, etc. The skin is rarely used as a channel for the administration of drugs intended to act generally. Watery solutions penetrate its horny layer with great difficulty, unless carried in by the galvanic current—a method of medication which, after falling into almost complete desuetude, has recently been revived with considerable success as a means of obtaining a more or less local action—Electrolysis, or Cataphoresis. Only elec- trolytic solutions can be employed in this way ; drugs which do not ionise cannot be introduced into the body by electrolysis. Salts in solution dissociate into an electro-positive metallic ion (kation) and an electro-negative acid radicle ion (anion) {vide art. " Pharmacology," vol. vii. p. 443). When a current is passed through such a solution the kations descend, the anions ascend, the current. The human body is an electrolyte, and if an electrolytic solution be used at the electrodes of a battery connected with the body the descending kations will penetrate the skin at the positive pole ; the ascending anions will enter at the negative pole. This can be shown ex- perimentally in animals : strychnine salts cause poisoning when applied at the positive, but not at the negative electrode, the kation here being the active ion; with potassium cyanide the re- verse is the case, the anion being toxic. The rule therefore is, to use the positive pole when the action of the metallic ion is desired, the negative pole for the acid radicle. As examples we may mention the use of zinc chloride at the anode for rodent ulcer ; salicylate of soda at the cathode for chronic rheumatism. In the one case the zinc, in the other the salicylic ion, acts locally. The solutions are applied on layers of lint connected with the electrode; the other electrode is placed on some indifferent part of the body. A current of 30 or 50 ma. more or less is used. (Dawson Turner, Ed. Med. Jour., 1908, vol. xxiii., N.S.) Apart from this, if the absorption of a drug throvigh the skin is desired, it must be applied in the form of an ointment. Fumigation, as a means of attaining the same end, has fallen into almost complete disuse, and the possibility of a powder being absorbed by the sebaceous and other glands is not made use of in practice. The same remark applies to the Endermic method, in which powdered drugs were applied to and absorbed from the raw surface left by a rapidly acting vesicant, such as strong ammonia or chloroform. In fact, the chief drug which is now ad- ministered by the skin is mercury in the in- unction treatment of syphilis. The blue ointment is thoroughly rubbed into the skin, or spread on a binder which is kept applied over a considerable area. More recently the cleaner practice of wearing a bib impregnated with mercury has been introduced. Another drug which is sometimes given by this channel is guaiacol, which is a powerful depressant and antipyretic when applied to the skin in fever. Local Applications to the Skin.—(1) Ointrnerits. —The most common bases are lard, vaseline, lanoline, wax, and cetaceum. Lanoline (hydrous wool fat, adeps lanse hydrosus) is readily miscible with water, and in its anhydrous form is dis- tinctly hygroscopic and may therefore irritate. It is somewhat tough, and may be made more workable by the addition of olive oil or vaseline. Vaseline is believed to give up incorporated drugs more readily than the others, hence yields a more active ointment. Oleic acid is chiefly used for preparing alkaloidal ointments. Cold creams, or ointments containing a con- siderable quantity of water, have a refrigerant effect—an instance is the unguentum aquae rosse of the pharmacopoeia. When a large proportion of powder is incor- porated with a fatty basis a Paste results—as in the case of the well-known Lassar's paste, which consists of equal parts of zinc oxide, powdered starch, lanoline, and vaseline. Pastes differ from ointments in being less penetrating, and in per- mitting excretions to escape more freely. Salves are ointments medicated in various ways, and spread on muslin. Sometimes the muslin is made impermeable (and the salve more active) by being coated with gutta-percha. (2) Plasters, with one or two exceptions, such as the emplastrum belladonnse, are not much used. They consist of an adhesive basis, to which drugs are added, spread on leather or linen. Among the best known are the salicylic acid and creosote plaster used in the treatment of lupus; emplastrum hydrargyri, sometimes used for dressing syphilitic ulcers ; and the em- plastrum plumbi, with which chronic inflamma- tory conditions are occasionally strapped. The last is a useful plaster basis, to which other drugs may be added. (3) Varnishes.—These are preparations which, when applied to the skin, evaporate and leave a thin adherent coating. They may be medi- cated in various ways. Among the most gener- ally employed are the linimentum exsiccans (tragacanth 5, glycerine 5, water 100); glyco- gelatine, or glycerine jelly, which requires to be melted before being applied; collodion ; and traumaticin (gutta-percha 1 dr., chloroform 1 oz.). Alkalis should not be added to prepara-