PITUITARY BODY 105 of bundles of connective tissue with branched pigmented cells and smaller clasping cells free from pigment. Its original nervous structure is entirely lost. Functions.—Recent investigations have shown that the pituitary, like the suprarenal and thyroid glands, probably furnishes an internal secretion which is of importance in maintaining the normal metabolism. The three methods of investigation which have been employed in attempting to arrive at a knowledge of the character of internal secretions of other ductless glands—namely, that of the clinician, where the effects of disease are noted, that of experimental removal, and lastly that of injection of extracts —have all been made use of. The results arrived at, although very valuable, are still not sufficiently definite to warrant one in going further than stating the probable role of the body. It is exceedingly unlikely that the pituitary acts in a similar way to the thyroid, although Rogowitsch has stated that in rabbits it enlarges after removal of the thyroid, thus supplying a vicarious secretion, and others have described hypertrophy, tumour growths, etc., in cases of myxoedema. The relationship between enlargement of the pituitary and the occurrence of acromegaly is a more probable one, but their simultaneous occurrence is by no means con- stant. The experiments of Schiff on excretion of nitrogen and phosphorus, after feeding with pituitary extracts, do not warrant one in draw- ing the conclusion that the extracts exert an influence on bone metabolism. After complete removal of the gland, animals only survive for a comparatively short period, dying usually within a fortnight. The body temperature is lowered, the animals gradually become feebler, suffer from muscular tremors, and afterwards spasms of a severe nature, and finally pass into a dyspnoeic condition. More exact information was to be expected from investigating the effects of injection of pituitary extracts, and these expectations have been fulfilled by the work of Schafer and his collaborateurs. The action is quite different from that possessed by the thyroid, as aqueous extracts of the infun- dibular or nervous portion have a very marked effect upon the blood pressure, the resultant rise being due not only to an increased heart's action, but especially to a direct local action upon the systemic arterioles. This contraction of the arterioles can be demonstrated by circu- lating a normal saline extract of the pituitary through the blood-vessels of a frog after de- struction of its entire nervous system, or by the plethysmographic method applied to the limbs, intestines, or spleen, when in every case there is a distinct diminution in volume. Unlike the suprarenal, however, the aqueous infundibular extract produces, after a brief latent period, a marked expansion of the kidney, accompanied at the outset only by a slight rise in general blood pressure which lasts only a few minutes. This expansion continues for a long period, and concomitant with it there is a marked diuresis, which dies away, however, before the expansion ceases. The substance or substances which produce this effect are not soluble in alcohol; in fact saline extracts of the alcohol soluble constituents of the glands seem to produce in some cases at least the opposite effects—temporary fall in blood pressvire, con- traction of the kidneys, and diminution in flow of urine. This action is probably, however, not specific, but due rather to depression of cardiac activity, a condition easily brought about in the cat, in which animal the above-mentioned effects are most easily produced. So far, then, as our present knowledge leads us, the specific action of the infundibular part of the pituitary seems to be, in part at least, a renal one. The nature of the active principle or principles requires still to be worked out. PityriSlSiS.—A scaly or scurfy condition of the skin (Gr. TriTuptacris, scurf) characteristic of several cutaneous affections. See Eczema {Mycosiform, Sehorrhoeic Variety); Lung, Tuber- culosis OF [Complications, Integumentary, Pity- riasis tahescentium); Nails, Affections of (In Pityriasis rubra); Pregnancy, Physiology {Changes in the Skin); Psoriasis {Diagnosis); Skin, Parasites {Tinea Versicolor); Skin, Pig- mentary Affections of {Spurious Pigmentation in Pityriasis Versicolo7'). PiX Burgundica.—Burgundy pitch, derived from the Norway spruce, a plant of Europe and Asia. It is a hard, resinous exuda- tion of a dull red colour, and its chief con- stituents are pimaric acid and a volatile oil. It melts at the temperature of the body, and is useful for making plasters. In itself it is mildly stimulant to the skin, and is vised as a counter- irritant for muscular rheumatism, bronchitis, and sprains. Preparation—Emplastrum Picis. Fix Carbon is. See Tar. Fix Liquida. SccTau. FiXOl.—A solution of wood-tar in soap, with caustic potash. Fjatig'Orsk. See Balneology {Russia, Caucasus). FlacebO.—A medicine "adapted more to please than benefit the patient"; literally the word means " I shall be pleasing"; a familiar form of the placebo is a bread pill. Flacenta. See Abortion {Varieties of Product, Placental Causes); Ectopic Gestation {Treatment, Removal of Placenta); Fcetus and Ovum, Development of {Placenta, Development of, and at Term); Labour, Stages and Duration {Third Stage); Labour, Diagnosis and Meghan-