PLACENTA 106 ISM (Transverse Lies and Placenta Prcevia); Labour, Management op {Third Stage); Labour IN Multiple Pregnancy {Alanagement of Third Stage); Labour, Accidental Complications {Retention of Placenta) ; Labour, Injuries to the Generative Organs {Acute Inversion of the Uterus, Causes); Molar Pregnancy {Placental Polypus); Pregnancy, Multiple {Placentas and Membranes); Pregnancy, Pathology of Dis- eases OF Placenta and Cord {Inflammation, Hcemorrhage, CEdema, etc.) ; Pregnancy, Path- ology of, Intra-Uterine Diseases {Transmis- sion of Microbes through Placenta, etc.); Preg- nancy, Pathology of Hemorrhage {Accidental, Unavoidable, Rupture of the Uterus); Puerper- ium. Pathology {Pymmia, Causes); Puerper- lUM, Pathology {Deciduoma Malignum); Tera- tology {Placental Parasites). Pla.Centa,tion.—The mode of formation of the placenta. Pla,CentitiS.—Inflammation of the pla- centa. See Pregnancy, Pathology {Diseases of the Placenta). Pla,CeiltOITia.—A tumour derived from a portion of the placenta or of the decidual membrane which forms the placenta ; malignant placentoma is a synonym of chorionepithelioma or deciduoma malignum. Placido'S Disc. See Cornea, Affec- tions of {Conical Cornea, Diagnosis); Eye, Clinical Examination of {Examination of Cornea, Kerato-conus, Diagnosis). Pl£lCla.rOSiS.—A soft tumour or wart of the conjunctival surface of the eyelid (Gr. TrAaSapos, moist). PlagriOCephaly. — An obliquely de- formed head, due to asymmetrical development (Gr. TrAayios, slanting). Plag^ue. 1. Definition 106 2. Synonyms 106 3. History and Geographical Distri- bution 106 4. A. Modes of Entry of Infection . 107 B. Means of Spread of the Disease 108 C. The Spread of Infection from Place to Place 112 (a) By Land . 112 {h) By Sea. . 113 5. Symptomatology and Types (1) Bubonic Plague 114 (2) Septicaeniic Plague . 117 (3) Pneumonic Plague . 117 (4) Intestinal Plague 117 (5) Pestis Ambulans 118 (6) Pestis minor 118 6. Morbid Anatomy and Bacteriology 119 7. Diagnosis 122 8. Prognosis . . . . .123 9. Treatment . . . . .124 10. Preparation of Curative and Pre- ventive Sera and Prophylactics 125 11. Measures to be taken upon the Occurrence of an Outbreak of Plague— (1) Administration . . .126 (2) General Measxires to be Adopted 126 (3) Destruction of Rats . .128 (4) Measures to be Employed in excluding Plague from a Country . . . .129 See also Balneology {Historical, Baths for Plague); Epidemiology {Seasonal Relations of Plague); Gangrene (Varieties, Infective); Gland- ular Fever {Diagnosis) ; Immunity {Specific, Plague); Leucocytosis {I71 Iifective Condi- tions) ; Milk {Pathological); Pneumonia, Bac- teriology OF {Plague associated ivith Pneu- mococcus); Pneumonia, Clinical {Etiology, Plague); Post-Mortem Methods {Bacteriological Investigations, Plague); Purpura {Symp)tomatic, Infective). 1. Definition. — Plague is an acute infectious disease, caused by a specific bacillus and char- acterised by inflammation of the lymphatic glands, sometimes by pneumonia or septicaemia. 2. Synonyms.—Pestis, Pestilentia, Pestis bu- bonica, Clades inguinaria glandularia. Oriental Plague, Indian Plague, Pali Plague, Black Death, Die Pest, Beulen Pest, Paste, Pestilenza, Tschuma, Mahamari, and a great many other names, some of which signify " epidemic disease with great mortality," "the rat disease," etc. etc. 3. History and Geographical Distribution. —The history of the distribution of plague epidemics divides itself into two portions : epi- demics before and after 1894 a.d., in which year, in the outbreaks in Southern China, the present widely diffused series of plague epidemics commenced. Regarding the early portion of plague history little need be stated. In the writings of Rufus of Ephesus, reference is made to an epidemic of a disease in Egypt, Libya, and Syria charac- terised by fever and buboes, about the beginning of the second century B.C. About the beginning of the Christian era another plague epidemic was noted in Libya by two Alexandrian physicians. We find no other certain reference to plague until the occurrence of the great Justinian Plague in the sixth century a.d., which ravaged the whole Roman Empire " to the ends of the habitable world." This lasted fifty or sixty years, and wrought most frightful havoc where- ever it appeared. From the second half of the sixth till the fourteenth century many severe epidemics of plague harassed Europe. The Black Death of the fourteenth century is the next epidemic of plague of which we have much