528 RETINA AND OPTIC NERVE or against the normal direction of blood-flow. This visible circulation seldom lasts more than a day or so. Small hsemorrhages often occur near the disc. Some days later the normal arterial pulsation on finger pressure may return in the larger branches, and the retinal oedema slowly dis- appears, but the nutritive supply of the retina has been too long interrupted for any restora- tion of function to take place, and the disc gradually becomes secondarily atrophic. Where a branch only is affected, changes similar to the above are found confined to the area of its distribution. Treatment is seldom of any avail in embolism, and then only within the first few hours. Our endeavours must be to break up and displace the arterial plug; and massage of the globe has in a few instances proved successful in effecting this. It is probably best performed by alternate, prolonged, moderately firm pressure on the globe and sudden removal of this pressure. Thrombosis of the central vein has been already discussed when speaking of haemorrhagic retinitis. Detachment of the Retina.—In this con- dition the retina proper is separated from the pigment epithelium, and the interval is usually occupied by a serous fluid. The retina is normally very loosely attached, except at the margin of the disc, and at the ora serrata. Fluid once pi'esent here readily gravitates to the lower part of the fundus, where detachments of old standing are most commonly found. Occasionally, instead of serous fluid, the dis- placing agent is an extravasation of blood, or a plastic exudation from choroiditis, or a solid choroidal tumour pushing the retina forward, or a subretinal cysticercus. The last mentioned is very rare in this country. Subretinal fluid may be eff'used, x>rimarily, as a haemorrhage, or as a serous exudation in connection with inflam- mation, renal disease, or tumour of the choroid. The common reason of detachment, however, is some alteration in the vitreous—either a mere diminution of its support to the retina, or contraction of connective-tissue formations within it, forcibly dragging and sometimes tearing the retina away from its normal position. In such cases the subretinal effusion of fluid is secondary, and either derived by transudation through the choroidal capillaries, or by direct passage through the retinal rent of fluid from the vitreous cavity. Alterations in the vitreous provocative of detachment are well known to be often associ- ated with myopia; they also occur from inflammation of the ciliary body and choroid. Perforating wounds of the sclei'otic may lead to detachment, either immediately, from a loss of vitreous, or subsequently, from contraction of cicatricial tissue at the point of puncture. In many cases of detached retina no cause can be discovered. Anatomically, the detached retina undergoes a gradual degeneration, the nervous elements being destroyed and its connective tissue hypertrophied. Diagnosis.—The general appearance of the eye is usually normal. In cases of very ex- tensive detachment the pupil acts imperfectly to light: the anterior chamber is deep, par- ticularly at the base of the iris. The tension of the globe is usually decidedly dioiinished, but may be normal or even increased; the latter is suspicious of the presence of a choroidal new growth. Central vision may or may not be much aff'ected, according to the condition of the media and to how far the macula is implicated. The visual field will show a contraction cor- responding to the extent of the detachment. But the accurate diagnosis of the disease depends upon the ophthalmoscopic examination. When we illuminate the patient's eye with the ophthalmoscopic mirror, held at about the distance of a foot, we have a want of the normal uniformity of reflex, part of the fundus corresponding to the detachment appearing bluish or light grey, in contrast to the normal red seen elsewhere. This discoloured, detached portion is often folded and more or less tremulous, and the vessels are usually visible, even by this method of examination, appearing as dark, stiff-looking, tortuous lines. In the case of a recent shallow detachment the differ- ence in reflex may not be easily noticeable, but the vessels have the characteristics just mentioned, though they are not so conspicuous, owing to the absence of the strong contrast furnished by the light-coloured surface. By the direct ophthalmoscopic method we now carefully measure the refraction of the vessels on the aff'ected and unaffected parts of the retina, so as to, in difficult cases, finally determine whether a displacement of retina i-eally exists. The vessels show no central light-streak. If detachment is present, estimate the difference of level between it and the normal fundus in its neighbourhood. Having thus satisfied ourselves of the detachment and measured the displacement, we next note its extent, the character of the boundaries, its mobility on movements of the eye, its colour, its variation in height, and the degree of folding. We are thus enabled to form an opinion as to the probable nature of the displacing agent— whether a rounded, solid growth ; a low, flat, firm exudation ; or a thin fluid. Occasionally, however, the presence of opacities in the media or iritic adhesions interfere with such an ex- amination ; under such conditions the indirect method of ophthalmoscopic observation is particularly valuable. The discoloration of a detachment is due to