PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—HEMORRHAGE 291 If, on the other hand, the os is fully or almost fully dilated and the head is fixed, immediate delivery by the forceps is indicated. Other Modes of Treatment.—The above is the treatment which the writer recommends, his reason for which will be found below. But, in addition, there are other methods which are recommended by various authorities. Of these the following are the chief :— Rupture of the membranes in every case.— Rupture of the membranes in every case is the treatment which has perhaps the greatest number of supporters. It is a treatment which is easily carried out, and in some cases is sufficient. If we can be certain that the uterus will contract down upon the foetus immediately after the escape of the liquor amnii, there are no very great objections to trying such a course of action, as if it fails it is still possible to resort to plugging. But, if the uterus does not con- tract down upon the foetus, there is a large space left inside it for blood to collect in, consequently plugging is impossible; and, if haemorrhage continues, there is nothing left but accouchement force—the most dangerous of all treatments. Accordingly, rupture of the membranes should be left for those cases in which we can be certain that, after it is done, the uterus will contract down; that is, it should only be performed when the patient is in labour. Accouchement force.—Accouchement force, as has been stated before, is the most dangerous of all treatments. It is quite unjustifiable in any case of external haemorrhage so long as the membranes are intact. The great objection to it lies in the fact that intra-uterine manipula- tions, particularly the violent manipulations of accouchement force, tend directly to aggravate the collapse into which the patient falls in cases of severe hBemorrhage. Delivery, even when effected by the natural efforts, increases the collapse, and consequently any treatment which will check the haemorrhage, and also afford an interval during which the patient can revive before the uterus is emptied, is the treatment that is to be preferred. Prognosis.—The prognosis in external acci- dental haemorrhage depends very much on the form of treatment adopted. In the Rotunda Hospital, 56 cases of accidental haemorrhage of all degrees of severity were treated between November 1889 and November 1893. Accouche- ment force was the mode of treatment adopted in all the serious cases, and of those so treated 6 died. From November 1893 to November 1900, 57 cases were treated. Accouchement force never was performed, its place being entirely taken by plugging. Out of this number 1 patient died, and she had been admitted to the hospital thirty minutes previously with the membranes ruptured. The number of serious cases during these two periods was relatively the same. The treatment by rupture of the membranes in all cases is credited with a mortality of 10 to 12 per cent by its sup- porters ; and yet a well-known obstetrician used to consider that the fact of a student recommending plugging of the vagina as a treatment for accidental haemorrhage was sufficient ground for depriving him of his examination. The subject is so important that the writer wishes to state again that the advantages of the vaginal plug lie in the follow- ing facts :—That it at the same time checks the haemorrhage and brings on labour ; that labour so induced comes on gradually, and at a time when the patient has had an interval of rest during which she can recover from her collapsed condition; that the vaginal plug applied in suitable cases does not tend " to convert an external into an internal haemorrhage"; and that, even if the bleeding continues after the plug has been applied, the patient is in no worse position for the adoption of any other treatment. The foetal mortality is very high—from 40 to 60 per cent. It will be discussed subsequently B. Unavoidable Haemorrhage Unavoidable haemorrhage, or haemorrhage due to placenta praevia, is the term applied to the bleeding caused by the detachment of a placenta, any portion of which is implanted so near the os internum, that it becomes separ- ated during the formation of the lower uterine segment. Frequency.—The statistics relating to the frequency of placenta praevia are very conflict- ing. Kaltenbach gives the proportion of 1 in 1500 to 1600, Winckel 1 in 1500, Ribemont- Dessaignes 1 in 1000, the Boston Lying-in Hospital 1 in 239. At the Rotunda Hospital, among 15,109 cases of labour there were 86 cases of placenta pnevia, or 1 in 175'68. Etiology.—The etiology of placenta praevia • is very obscure. It is more frequent amongst multiparae than amongst primiparae, and is also relatively more frequent in the case of twin pregnancies. Of the many theories which have been brought forward, three are specially worth attention. (1) That, owing to the effects of a previous endometritis, the cavity of the uterus has become so enlarged that its walls are no longer in contact with one another. Consequently, when an ovum enters the uterus through the Fallopian tube, instead of being detained at the fundus by the pressure of the mucous mem- brane, it drops downwards and becomes attached to the lower portion of the uterus. Support is given to this theory by the fact that placenta praevia almost always occurs in patients who have suffered from endometritis, as shown by menstrual disturbances, leucorrhoea, and abortions.