PLAGUE 126 inoculation sliould there be recrudescence of the epidemic. The conclusions of the Indian Plague Commission upon this subject were:— (1) Inoculation is harmless. (2) When given in the incubative stage, i.e. before the signs of plague are apparent, it has in many cases the power of aborting the disease. (3) Inoculation affords to all those inoculated a strong protection against attack by plague. (•i) In the few cases where inoculated people are attacked a very large proportion recover. There is a difference of opinion held by many people as to the second of these conclusions, but it is supported by Bannerman, an authority on the subject. As to the first, third, and fourth of these conclusions, there can be no question of the accuracy of the statement of the Commission. By again undergoing inoculation ten days after the first injection a greater amount of protection is secured. (5) Kitasatd's prophylactic is prepared from agar cultures of plague bacilli. Its inoculation effects are much milder than those of Haffkine's prophylactic. It has been used on a large scale in Formosa with excellent results, both with regard to reduction of the rates of incidence and of case mortality among the inoculated {Journal Trap. Med., May 1, 1902). (6) Cahnette's vaccine is obtained from cultures of the bacillus upon gelose. By filtration and repeated washings the bacilli are obtained as free as possible from toxines. The dried bacilli constitute the vaccine, of which the value does not appear to have been tested on a large scale. 11. Measures to be taken upon the Occurrence of an Outbreak of Plague (1) .4 dministra tion The public health authorities of a place likely to become plague infected should plan out the details of the arrangements which will become necessary in the event of the arrival of epidemic plague. A. Measu7'es in anticipation. (a) The provision and equipment of a plague hospital and of an ambulance department. (b) The provision of reception houses for " contacts." (c) Arrangements should be made for securing the services of an adequate medical and nursing staff should they be required. (d) The details of the measures to be presently described should be considered, so that they may be ready to be set in motion at the outset of the epidemic. (e) A campaign against rats and insanitary conditions should be at once instituted. B. Measures to be adopted at the outset of the epidemic. (a) The staff of the plague hospital should come on duty and be suitably augmented as required. This includes medical officers, nurses, ward attendants, porters, etc. The menial staff, especially among native races, should be recruited from recovered patients, after the first few weeks of the epidemic. Every plague case should be removed to hospital. (5) The reception houses must be opened. (c) Disinfection gangs must be formed, each in charge of a reliable "ganger," and the whole under some responsible person. (d) The M.O.H. would in this country be in charge of the plague administration, but it may be necessary, especially abroad, to appoint a medical officer in charge of the plague adminis- tration. (e) The locality should be divided into districts of a suitable size, each in charge of a medical officer (D.M.O.) with a staff of sanitary inspec- tors. The D.M.O.s should visit suspicious cases and act as medical referees in conjunction with the medical attendant (if any) in charge of the case. It is convenient, especially in the Colonies, to place the D.M.O.s in sanitary charge of their districts, under the senior medical officer of the plague administration. (/) A bacteriologist is necessary. (g) In some of the Colonies an advisory plague board, composed of men of influence in the locality, has been found of use. This board should not have any executive functions. (h) The plague staff should all be inoculated with Haffkine's prophylactic, and this should be made a condition of employment. (t) All pei-sons employed on plague duty should be segregated and provided with housing accommodation by the plague administration. (2) General Measures to be adopted (a) Public co-operation must be secured as far as possible. It usually happens that the inhabitants of a town attacked by plague are divided into two parties—those who are panic- stricken at the advent of the disease, and those who scout the idea of its presence. The former can be soothed, and some of the latter perhaps convinced, by holding public meetings addressed by prominent men in whom they have con- fidence, also by advertisements, posters, leaflets, and articles in the press. These should advise on preventive measures necessary, and point out the manner in which plague may be con- tracted and spread. The destruction of rats and a campaign against insanitation should be urged. The importance of early notification, both from the patient's and the public's point of view, should be represented, together with the advisability of seeking early medical assist- ance in suspicious cases. (b) Preventive inoculation by Haffkine\ pro- phylactic must be prominently laid before the public. Its acceptance will largely depend on the confidence with which the people regard