220 POTASH OR POTASSIUM over-acidity of the urine. Combined with lemon juice or citric acid it forms a useful cooling drink for feverish conditions, especially in children. 4. PoTASSii AcETAS. — Deliquescent white crystals or masses, very soluble in water, made from acetic acid and potassium carbonate. Dose—10-60 grs. Its actions and uses are the same as those of the citrate, but it is especially valuable as a diuretic in chronic kidney disease. 5. PoTASsii Sulphas—Hard, colourless prisms, soluble 1 in 10 of watei', which occur native or are obtained by the action of sulphuric acid as a potassium salt. Dose—10-40 grs. 6. PoTASSii Tartras.—A crystalline powder, prepared by neutralising acid potassium tartrate with potassium carbonate. It is very soluble in water. Dose—20-60 grs. (diuretic); 2-4 3 (purgative). 7. PoTASSii Tartras Acidus.—Cream of tar- tar. Obtained by the recrystallisation of the crude tartar deposited during the fermentation of wine. Dose — 20-60 grs. (diuretic); 2-8 3 (purgative). These three salts are excellent saline purga- tives, causing large watery motions without griping, and are indicated in cases of dropsy and urtemia where it is desired to abstract fluid from the blood. They are also used in weaker solution as mild saline aperients. They are not so widely employed for diuretic purposes as the citrate and acetate. "Imperial Drinks," useful in feverish states, contain potassium tartrate, glusidum, and oil of lemon. 8. PoTASSii Chloras. — Colourless crystals with a saline taste, soluble 1 in 16 of water, prepared by passing chlorine into water holding lime or magnesia in suspension and treating the liquid with potassium chloride. Dose—5-15 grs. Preparation — Tx'ochiscus Potassii Chloratis. 3 grains in each. In virtue of its oxidising prop- erties potassium chlorate is given in stomatitis, in pharyngitis, and tonsillitis, either in the form of the lozenge or as a gargle (10 grains to the ounce). It is especially serviceable in the sore mouth arising from treatment by mercury. Its administration during pregnancy is said to prevent miscarriage, and it is therefore indi- cated in cases of habitual abortion. 9. Potassii Nitras. — Nitre or saltpetre. White striated prisms, soluble 1 in 4 of water. It is sometimes employed as a diuretic, but the citrate and acetate are much preferable. The fumes from burning nitre relieve asthma, and it is a common ingredient of asthma powders. Pieces of blotting-paper soaked in a 20 per cent solution of nitre and dried may be burned and the fumes inhaled by the patient. 10. Potassii Bichromas.—Large orange-red crystals, soluble 1 in 10 of water. Dose—~^-\ gr. in capsule or as a pill with kaolin. It has been recommended for dyspepsia and gastric ulcer. Potassii Bromidum. ;S'ee Bromum. Potassii lodidum. See Iodine. Potassii OieaS is Sapo Mollis or soft soap. Potassii Permang^anas. aS'^sMan- GANESIUM. Potassii SuipllUrata. >S'ge Sulphur. Potato Cream. See Scurvy, Infantile (Treatment, Diet). Potato Culture.— The growing of bacteria on potatoes as a culture medium. Potatoes. See Diet {Vegetable, Roots and Tubers); Diabetes Mbllitus {Treatment, Diet). Poteriodendron. See Physiology, Tissues {Nerve, Structure and Development). PotiO or Potion.—A draught or dose of a liquid medicine or mixture. Potomania.—Delirium tremens {q.v.). Potter's Astlima or Potter's PllthisiS.—A form of fibroid phthisis due to the inhalation of dust by the workers in potteries. See Lungs, Pneumonokoniosis. Pottery Works. See Trades, Danger- ous {Lead-Poisoning). Pott's Aneurysm. — An aneurysmal varix or arterio - venous aneurysm; Bell's aneurysm. Pott's Disease. See Spine, Surgical Affections of {Spinal Caries); see also Chest, Deformities of {Deformities due to Pott's Dis- ease) ; Osteo-Arthropathies {in Pott's Disease). Pott's Fracture. See Ankle-Joint, Region of. Injuries {Fractures in Vicinity of); Deformities {Talipes Valgus after Pott's Fracture). Pouch.—A cul-de-sac or pocket, e.g. the pouch of Douglas behind the uterus. See Generation, Female Organs of {Ligaments of the Uterus); Labour, Injuries to the Genera- tive Organs (Lacerationsof the Vagina); Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor (Vaginal Entero- cele). Poudrette.—A form of artificial manure made by treating night-soil with sulphuric acid. PougeS-ieS-Eaux. See Balneology (France, Calcareous Waters). Pouiet'S Forceps.—A form of axis- traction midwifery forceps. Poultice.—A cataplasm or external appli-