442 PURPURA hsemorrhagic tendency ceases at the end of five or ten days, and rapid recovery ensues without complication. Both these points must be modi- fied in the light of wider experience. In the first place, the disease may run a much longer course. A patient may present the symptoms above described with hardly any intermission for at least two months, and with intermissions a case may occasionally run on for a year. In the second place, a fatal event is by no means vincommon, and the illness must alway.s give rise to anxiety. By the continuance and pro- fuseness of the haemorrhage the anEsinia reaches danger-point. The patient becomes, not rest- less, as is the case after a single large haemor- rhage, but apathetic and drowsy, and so dies exhausted; or at any point in the illness hsenwrrhage into the brain, or upon its surface, may prove fatal. In young children cases of great malignancy have been observed, and have been termed "purpura fulminans." With a sudden onset the cutaneous and visceral hsemorrhages are overwhelming, and death occurs in two or three days. In a recorded case, still more acute, no visceral hiemorrhage occurred, but the cutaneous haemorrhage was extensive. Within a few hours all four limbs were swollen and discoloured by infiltrated blood, and the child died within twenty-four hours of the onset. (3) Arthritic Purpura.—This form is a disease of adolescence and early adult life, and it is perhaps more common in males than females. The patient suifers for a few days from slight or severe pain in various joints, especially the knees, ankles, elbows, or wrists. Sometimes the joints are swollen and tender, but the pain may be severe, even when there is very little evidence of inflammation of the joint structures. Up to this point the condition will be regarded as a subacute rheumatism. Petechias now appear. As a rule, they are not distributed over the whole body, as in purpura simplex, though a few may be scattered over the trunk, and even on the mucous surface of the lips. They occur mostly on the lower extremities, especially on the shins and ankles, and they often show a tendency to be aggregated around an affected joint. Their distribution is sym- metrical, as is the joint affection. In this form of purpura the centre of the hsemorrhagic spot is often elevated into a papule, which is commonly visible owing to its pallor. Some- times in the centre of a spot may be seen and felt a pale spherical nodule, which is found on microscopical examination to consist of de- colourised blood-clot. On the larger hsemorrhagic patches blebs filled with blood-stained serum may develop, and occasionally a little oozing will occur, so that a patch becomes surmounted with a crust of dried blood. Ecchymoses may often be observed, but in most cases the pre- vailing type is the simple petechial eruption. Slight oedema of feet and shins, or of backs of hands and forearms, is not imcommon. In some cases there is slight pyrexia, but often the temperature is normal throughout the illness. There is very little constitutional disturbance. Sweating is not a marked symptom, except in severe cases, and the skin is often dry and harsh. The articular pains subside in a few days; the petechise, which appear in successive crops, become rusty and fade, and the patient may be well in a few weeks. But there is a strong tendency to recurrence. Though the patient remains in bed under treatment, the same phenomena, articular and cutaneous, are often repeated at an interval of a few days, and similar attacks, slight though they are, may carry the illness over many weeks. Even when the natural tendency to recurrence seems to have subsided, it will often be found that the first attempt to get the patient out of bed will result in another attack, and some months may elapse before the patient can pass the whole day in the erect attitude. In these later attacks the petechicE are the marked feature. The articular pains may be very slight, often only stiffness is complained of, and as a rule there is no pyrexia. The relation of this affection to acute rheum- atism is uncertain. Strong arguments against any connection between the two conditions are the immense disparity in the frequency of their occurrence, and the moderate and often trifling nature of the joint affection. And as Scheby- Buch has pointed oiit, there is no form of pur- pura which does not occasionally present artic- ular pains, and yet the term "rheumatic" can hardly be extended to all of them. Further, similar articular pains are often met with in cases of acute septica)mia, and do in fact some- times lead at first to an erroneous diagnosis of rheumatism. Under the head of arthritic pur- pura must be provisionally included certain cases which are of less common occurrence, but of sharper onset and greater severity. As re- gards the condition of the joints and the general course of the illness, they do not require separ- ate description. But they present some peculiar features. In the first place, wheals are con- spicuous among the petechias, whence the name " purpura urticans" is derived. The second characteristic is the extensive oedema. The eyelids, cheeks, alse nasi, lips, and chin may be enormously swollen and tense, studded with petechiae or discoloured with ecchymoses. The hands and feet and the neighbourhood of any joint may present a similar appearance. The writer has seen the penis red and ocdematous, with a wheal and abundant petechiae on its surface. In these cases pyrexia is often more marked. The urine may contain blood or albumin. Rarely blood appears in the stools. Diarrhoea has occasionally been noted. It