470 RAYNAUD'S DISEASE The parts most frequently involved are the extremities of the limbs (especially the upper limbs) and of the ears, unilaterally or bilaterally. The thumbs are less liable than the other digits. In exceptional cases gangrene attacks other parts, such as the cheeks or chin, and in rare instances the penis. Labia majora, nipples, lips, eyelids, tissues over the coccyx, or the proximal parts of the extremities have also been affected. Instances have occurred where large areas of the limbs have been attacked. Thus in one of Barlow's cases amputation had to be performed in the middle third of the calf. As a rule the gangrenous process is confined to a small part of the cyanosed area. In its mildest form the necrosis may be limited to the epithelium, so that only desquamation results. More often a small blister forms, with sanguineo- serous or dark contents. This bursts, causing an excoriation or ulcer in the skin which, on healing, leaves a scar behind. The nails may be lost and subsequently reproduced. If the necrosis extends deeper into the cutis and sub- cutaneous tissue, large blebs form which, as the subjacent tissues necrose, become deep brown. The slough ultimately separates and leaves a slowly healing ulcer, sometimes with sharply punched-out margins. The soft tissues may necrose to any depth, and whole phalanges thus undergo dry mum- mification. A line of demarcation forms, and the gangrenous part is cast off", leaving a conical stump behind. As a rule the bones escape necrosis. The resulting scar often remains for weeks crusted with scabs, which tend to re-form on removal. Moist gangrene is rare. Gangrene and cyanosis may be present simultaneously in the same limb, and the three stages of syncope, cyanosis, and gangrene may be observed at one time in different digits. This, however, is uncommon. The distribution is roughly symmetrical, though not necessarily equally intense on the two sides. There may be severe gangrene in the limb of one side, with an insignificant blister on the other. Several types of cases occur: in one variety attacks of local asphyxia occur, in which the cyanosis becomes constant instead of intermit- tent, and in the dusky area a part necroses and is cast off'. In another type paroxysms of local syncope or cyanosis occur, and small blisters, ulcers, or sloughs develop in the aff"ected digits. In others the cyanosis is chronic from the out- set, especially during the winter months, not paroxysmal, and small blebs or ulcers appear in the cyanotic area. In rare cases symmet- rical gangrene has occurred without previous cyanosis. Pain is usually a marked feature, especially during the preceding paroxysmal cyanosis. It is often of excruciating intensity, not confined to the gangrenous parts, but radiating from them up the limb. Yet in some cases cyanosis goes on to gangrene quite painlessly ; this, however, is exceptional. Progress and Complications.—Raynaud's dis- ease usually occurs in a succession of paroxysms, the duration of each varying from a few minutes to many hours. A large number of cases never go on to gangrene, but consist merely of attacks of local syncope and local cyanosis, or of either of these alone. Some of the less acute cases, e.g. after acute fevers, recover permanently and completely. Some cases, even of gangrene, have only a single attack and do not recur. Amongst the various complications which may occur, one of the most important is sclerodermia of the fingers, which may precede or succeed the Raynaud's disease, though it often occurs totally unassociated with the latter. Other diseases of the skin are also occasionally associated with Raynaud's disease, amongst which may be men- tioned urticaria, cutaneous hsemorrhages, and angio-neurotic oedema. Joint eff'usions, with subsequent ankyloses, especially of the smaller joints, have been observed. But complications of a less local character also occur. Thus sometimes one of the acute infective fevers has been an antecedent. Other cases give a history of malaria, sometimes many years before. Sucli cases would point to the toxic origin of some cases of Raynaud's disease. Numerous urinary abnormalities have also occurred, of which the most important is par- oxysmal hcemoglobiiiuria. This has been noted in over 6 per cent of cases. The connection between the two diseases is regarded by some as a very close one, so much so that they con- sider the two states as essentially identical; both being paroxysmal and both excited by cold. Others, however, regard heemoglobinuria as a secondary complication, since it occurs not only in Raynaud's disease, but also in the course of other morbid conditions, such as malaria and syphilis. Malaria is certainly a fairly common antecedent of hsemoglobinuria. It is conceivable that in certain cases of local cyanosis a local hsemoglobinuria is produced (indeed, in a few cases free hsemoglobin has been demonstrated in the blood-serum obtained from the affected finger during a paroxysm), and that this causes the subsequent appearance of htemoglobin in the urine. But in some cases hfemoglobinuria precedes the local cyanosis, or is concomitant with it, and if there be a cause common to the two symptoms it must be a central one. Albuminuria, constant or intermittent, has been observed, the latter being rare and some- times combined with hjemoglobinuria. Diabetes insipidus and glycosuria have been recorded in a few instances, but the possibility of diabetic gangrene should always be carefully borne in mind. Cardio-vascular disease has been noted in fully 12 per cent of cases. Some of these are, no doubt, mere accidental coincidences. Epistaxis