PREGNANCY, PHYSIOLOGY OF—DIAGNOSIS OF PREGNANCY 233 size, form, position, and consistence of the uterus while it is still within the pelvis are the most reliable signs we possess for the diag- nosis of early pregnancy. Given favourable conditions for making a bimanual examination of the uterus in early pregnancy, i.e. a lax abdominal wall and uterus in its normal position, the doughy softness, the fluctuation, the alternate relaxations and con- tractions of the pregnant uterus can hardly be mistaken for anything else. Still, mistakes are made, and made frequently; therefore, while the uterine tumour is still within the pelvis, it is well not to be definite in an expressed opinion, at any rate, after a single examination. The Differential Diagnosis of Pregnancy The increase in the size of the uterus being one of the most reliable signs in the diagnosis of early pregnancy, the conditions which are apt to be mistaken for it are naturally those which are also associated with this same sign. They are as follows:— {a) Chronic Metritis: Sub-involution.—The uterus in metritis, though enlarged, will be felt to be uniformly hard, quite distinct from the doughy consistency of an early pregnancy. It is generally also associated with some degree of tenderness. Menstruation is profuse, and a history of some previous pelvic troubles will generally be obtainable. t \(h) A small interstitial fibroid may be differen- tiated from pregnancy in the same way. It is much more difficult to differentiate between a small fibroid and chronic metritis than to dis- tinguish between these conditions and pregnancy. (c) Enlargement of the uterus from retained menstrual or watery fluid presents often much greater difficulties. Retention of menstrual fluid occurs in the great majority of cases in young girls in whom there is a congenital atresia of the cervix, vagina, or hymen. The uterine tumour which is found on abdominal palpation closely simulates, because of its doughy consistence, the pregnant uterus; but the fact that the patient has never menstruated, the pain which is generally present, and the absence of mammary signs, will generally excite sus- picion and lead to a vaginal examination, when, if the atresia is in the hymen or vagina, the real nature of the case will be at once recognised. Hsematometron may, however, be got in women who have menstruated. The cause in them will generally be found to be an atresia of the cervix. This atresia may be inflammatory in its origin, or be due to the application of escharotics to the cervix. A history of pain each month, the absence of mammary signs and ballottement, and a want of correspondence between the size of the tumour and the period of amenorrhcea as in the former case, will generally excite suspicion, though the use of a speculum or an anaesthetic may be necessary to enable us to make a positive diagnosis. Distension of the uterus by a watery or mu- cous fluid is a rare condition. It is met with after the menopause, and is due to senile changes, producing an atresia of the cervix. Occurring as it does in old women it is not likely to be mistaken for a pregnancy. In the differential diagnosis of these con- ditions, which may simulate pregnancy in the early months, it will be seen that we are largely dependent on the bimanual examination of the uterus. The necessity for caution in our ex- pressed opinion at this period has already been stated. When from any reason the uterus cannot be satisfactorily palpated bimanually— it may be owing to the thickness or tension of the abdominal wall, or to a backward displace- ment of the uterus—there is still greater reason for being careful. Pregnancy in a retroverted uterus in the early months is very easily over- looked even by the most expert examiner. From the fifth month onward pregnancy has to be differentiated from all those conditions which are accompanied by enlargement of the abdomen. The most important of these are— Ovarian Tumour.—Cystic ovarian tumours, from their comparatively rapid growth, from their consistence, and from the fact that not infrequently they are associated with amenor- rhcea, have frequently been mistaken for preg- nancy. The converse is equally true. The following points should be remembered in differ- entiating the one from the other. Ovarian tumours rule, slower in growth than the pregnant uterus, and while in the latter the abdominal swelling is central from the first, in the case of the latter we can generally elicit a history that the swelling was first noticed at one or other side. If amenorrhcea is present with an ovarian tumour*, it is very unlikely that the size of the abdominal swelling will have the same relation to the period of amenor- rhcea as that of the pregnant uterus. Menstrua- tion, however, is regular in the majority of cases of ovarian tumour found before the menopause. Secretion may be present in the breasts in cases of ovarian tumour, but only rarely is this so, and then the other mammary changes are absent. Examination in the case of ovarian tumours for the uterine bruit, foetal heart, and ballottement, will give negative results, and the uterus on vaginal examination can generally be felt not enlarged and displaced backward, forward, or to the side. It is in cases of hydramnios, with consequent great abdominal enlargement, that mistakes are most apt to occur. Here several of the ab- dominal signs of pregnancy already mentioned may be absent, e.g. the foetal heart and uterine bruit, and the active and passive movements of the foetus. Vaginal ballottement, on the other hand, can be made out unusually distinctly, and