RESPIRATION 508 The volume of air inspired during each ordinary inspiration, tidal air as it is termed, amounts to about 500 com., or 30 cubic inches. Complemental air is the farther volume which by the deepest inspiration can be indrawn after an ordinary inspiration ; mix'plemental or reserve air is the vohune which can be forcibly expelled after ordinary expiration is completed ; residual air is that remaining within the lungs after ex- pulsion of the reserve air. The vital or respir- atory capacity of an individual is the volume of air which he can expel after as forcible an in- spiration as possible. The vital capacity varies with the sex, age, height, and weight of the in- dividual, but averages about 3500 c.cm. to 4000 c.cm. Changes in Respired Air.—The atmosphere consists of 20'96 volumes per cent of oxygen, about 79"0 volumes per cent of nitrogen, and 0"03 volumes per cent of carbon dioxide ; further, the inspired air contains a variable quantity of watery vapour, usually contains dust particles, and always contains inicro-organisms in greater or lesser numbers (see p. 510). The air, on passing through the nose, trachea, and bronchi, gains moisture, and its temperature is raised, and by diffusion its gases then mix with those of the air persisting in the pulmonary alveoli. The expired air, as compared with that inspired, is warmer, poorer in oxygen by about 4 per cent, but richer by about 4 per cent in carbon dioxide, and richer in aqueous vapour. The chief of these alterations are consequent on an interchange between the gases of the alveolar air and those of the blood in the pulmonary capillaries. The arterial blood of man contains about 21 volumes per cent of oxygen, and 40 volumes per cent of carbon dioxide, whilst venous blood coming to the lungs contains about 7-12 volumes per cent less 0, and about 8 volumes per cent more COg. It is therefore evident that the blood in passing through the lungs gains oxygen and parts with COo, and this interchange of gases is pi'obably largely due to gaseous diffusion. For the tension of oxygen in alveolar air is greater than that of the oxygen in venous blood, whereas the tension of carbon dioxide in venous blood is greater than that of the carbon dioxide in alveolar air. The oxygen is, however, not merely dissolved in the blood, but is in chemical combination with haemoglobin, and, moreover, there are probably other factors besides diffusion concerned in the gaseous interchange. The Nervons Mechanism of Respiration.— The special respiratory muscles are innervated from different parts of the central nervous system. The diaphragm is innervated through the phrenic nerves, the intercostal muscles through the intercostal nerves, the muscles which open the glottis through the inferior laryngeal branches of the vagus, and the muscles of the alee nasi through the facial nerves. The impulses transmitted through these nerves are dependent upon and co-ordinated by the respir- atory centre which is situated in the medulla oblongata. The precise situation in the medulla of the cells constituting this centre is a matter of some dubiety; Flourens in 1824 regarded the centre as being located just below the apex of the calamus scriptorius, but the observations of later investigators indicate that the cells forming the centre lie in the formatio reticularis on both sides of the median line. The activity of the centre is automatic; it can act independently of any afferent impulses. It is generally supposed that the automatic activity of the centre is dependent on stimuli derived from the blood, in that the cells are stimulated to activity by a venous condition of the blood, but whether excess of carbon dioxide or deficiency of oxygen be the determining factor is as yet undecided. The centre may, however, be stimulated reflexly by afferent impulses, and that the centre is constantly being influenced by such stimuli is shown by the fact that although when the centre is cut off from all afferent impulses, respiration continues, it consists in rhythmic spasmodic movements the frequency of which gradually diminishes till the movements finally cease entirely. Of all afferent impulses acting on the respiratory centre the most important are those transmitted by the vagi, these nerves being essential for the normal respiratory i-hythm, and being the sole nerves whereby afferent stimuli are constantly reaching the respiratory centre. After division of both vagi, the respiratory movements become markedly slow and deep, and it has been determined that the nature of the vagus influence is that of accelerating and shortening the amplitude of the respiratory movements, this being effected by the inhibitory impulses produced by disten- sion and collapse of the lung. When the superior laryngeal nerve is stimu- lated there is inhibition of the inspiratory move- ment, and with a stronger stimulus forced ex- piratory movements are induced. Stimulation of the glossopharyngeal nerve results in transient cessation of respiration. This is a constant phenomenon during the act of deglutition. Stimulation of any ordinary sensory nerve is usually followed by acceleration and lengthening of inspiration, a well-known fact of considerable clinical importance. The influence exerted on the respiratory centre by the higher parts of the brain is as yet im- perfectly determined. Still it is improbable that in a normal state such impulses are con- stantly in action, for if, the vagi being intact, a section be made through the upper level of the medulla, respiration continues in a normal manner. If, however, the vagi also be divided, the normal respiratory rhythm is markedly affected, long inspiratory movements alternating