483 RECTUM, DISEASES OF THE sary under the influence of opium. Wind passes by the catheter. Secondary hsemorrhage may come on at the time of separation of the sloughs. It generally occurs only in elderly subjects of broken-down constitutions. Generally the tissues are too rotten for application of a ligature. Treatment as just described must at once be instituted. Afterwards the buttock and lower part of the bowels are to be kept cool, and a hot bottle put near the head if the patient is faint. Careful nourishment and after-treatment are needed. In women, hfemorrhage from the rectum may be controlled by the fingers in the vagina, making backward pressure against the sacrum. Procidentia Recti.—Procidentia and prolapse are often confused. Procidentia is a descent of the whole circumference of the rectvim, pro- lapsus is a protrusion outside the anus of a portion or portions of the mucous membrane. Internal hcemorrhoids, when they come outside the anus, are said to be prolapsed. Procidentia may take place in three ways :— (1) The entire circumference of the mucous membrane, or all the coats of the rectum, appear outside the anus. (2) The upper part of the rectum descends through the lower, and appears externally. (3) The upper part of the rectum descends through the lower part, but does not appear outside. Constipation is usually a symptom in children, but in the old a diarrhoea with discharge of mucus is more common. In old and bad cases there is more or less incontinence of fseces. In the third variety there is obstinate con- stipation, a sensation of burning and fulness with tenesmus, straining, difficulty in defseca- tion, and occasional discharges of blood and mucus. These symptoms should lead to an examination of the bowel with the patient stand- ing up. The finger passing up close to the front or back wall of the bowel meets an ob- struction, then, slightly withdrawn, it will find in the centre of the bowel the orifice of the de- scending portion. This condition occurs chiefly in the old. The other forms of procidentia are most common in children. Reason for this may be found in the length of the mesentery, though worms, stone in the bladder, phimosis, and polypus recti are also sometimes to blame. Occasionally the cause is indiscernible. When a large portion of the bowel is down there is much difficulty in returning it. Gentle taxis, and pressing up a large flexible bougie, gener- ally succeed. If there is much swelling, rest must be enforced with the buttocks well raised ; after a few days the mass may be returned. Constant application of ice must not be made, or serious sloughing may ensue. With children palliative treatment generally succeeds in curing the condition. Any source of irritation is to be removed, and the general health attended to. Sitting and straining at stool are forbidden, the motions being passed while the child lies at the edge of the bed, or stands up, one buttock being drawn aside so as to tighten the anal orifice. Afterwards the protruded part is washed with cold water, and thoroughly sponged with weak carbolic or hamamelis. The bowel is then returned by gentle pressure, and the child kept lying upon its face for half an hour. Mild measures failing, the application of strong nitric acid is the best remedy. An anaesthetic is given, and the protrusion well dried. The acid is applied all over it, and then after being oiled the parts are returned, and the rectum stuffed with wool. A pad is applied outside the anus, and the buttocks are strapped together. The bowels are confined for four days. Then castor oil is given, the plug comes away, and the rectum does not descend. Some- times more than one application of the acid is necessary. Procidentia in adults is cured with much greater difficulty. For the first and second varieties, the best mode of treatment is free application of the actual cautery, assisted, if necessary, by opening the abdomen, and pulling up the gut from within. For the third variety, pulling up the gut from within, and fixing it to the abdominal wall, is the safest and best mode of treatment. The cautery is used in the following manner:— The patient is anaesthetised, preferably with ether; the part, if not quite down, is drawn fully out of the anus by a vulsellum. With the iron cautery at a dull red heat, make four longi- tudinal stripes from the base to the apex of the procidentia, taking care not to burn so deeply towards the apex as at the base. If the proci- dentia is very large, six stripes may be made. The intestine is then oiled and returned within the anus. The sphincters are partially divided on both sides of the anus by a sawing motion of the hot iron, and a small portion of the oiled wool is inserted. The patient must be kept in bed, and the motions passed lying down. If the wounds are not healed in a month he must continue the recumbent position for another two weeks, by which time it rarely happens that all are not healed. After he is up and about, motions should be passed lying down. Polypus Recti and Polypoid Growths.— By polypi we mean pedunculated growths attached to the mucous membrane of the rectum, and generally situated not less than one inch from the anus. They may be found two inches up the bowel, but rarely more than that. Generally they grow from the dorsal portion of the rectum. The two common kinds are— (1) Mucous or Soft Polypi.—These are small vascular tumours with pedicle often two inches long. They resemble a half-ripe mulberry. These polypi may bleed very freely. They are true adenomata. II