PNEUMONIA—CLINICAL SECTION 174 ance of such a symptom by day is of the utmost import, and often foretells a fatal issue. On the whole there is less tendency in acute pneu- monia to cerebral symptoms than in typhus or some of the other acute infections; the decided localisation of the poison in the lungs apparently relieves the nervous system, which often suffers severely when such a localisation does not take place or is of feeble intensity. In a large number of cases pneumonia ends as suddenly as it began, so far at least as the DAY or OiSEAJE h 5 1 q 10 ■po jor 106' 105" 104" 103° 102° 101" iOO* 99* 98" 97" 36" M . t 1*1 : t M n . C M ;E ■ t . t M . t .h / V V Pulse E \\% qlo loo qu \\% 10« qb q« qto qlo E 3U 3b 2,9 2« 3b 5% 2U MOTIOHS 0. i . 1. \ \ 1 J . Chart 4.—Crisis in pneumonia on 5th day. Patient, a woman aged 22. constitutional symptoms are concerned. The storm and stress of a tempestuous fever give place to the calm and comfort of returning health. So periodic and rapid is the defer- vescence, that of the pneumonic patient it may often be said that " at such an hour the fever left him." The physical signs, however, persist for a longer or shorter time after crisis, for the clearing or " resolution" of a consolidated lung or pulmonary lobe takes time. The fibrinous exudation undergoes a fatty degeneration, and at the same time liquefies. The resulting al- buminous and fatty emulsion is then partly absorbed, partly expectorated. Two notable departures from the cyclic course of pneumonia just described now and then pre- sent themselves. In a certain though small proportion of cases, after a threatening onset and one or two days of moderate, or it may be high fever, a sudden change for the better takes place, with a brisk fall of temperature, a moist perspiring skin, and a critical sleep. The attack has aborted. It is an example of masked or larval pneumonia. Professor Osier, of Balti- more, thus describes it: "A patient may have the initial symptoms of the disease, a slight chill, moderate fever, a few indefinite local signs, and herpes. The whole process may last for only two or three days; some authors recog- nise even a one-day pneumonia." In arriving at a diagnosis in such a case, the epidemic prevalence of the disease at the time, and the occurrence of imdoubted pneumonia in the same house or family, should be taken into account. To this mild and transitory form of the disease the phrase ephemeral pneumonia also has been applied. The following example of masked or larval pneiunonia recently came under the writer's notice:— StafF-Sister Louisa C, aged 28 years, on duty at the Meath Hospital, Dublin, felt out of sorts and suffered from a cold with shortness of breath during the early days of March 1901. On Sunday, March 10, she became so poorly that she went to bed at 4 p.m. She complained of headache, malaise, shortness of breath, and a catch in her breathing. Next day she felt better, and so continued until Wednesday, March 13, on the morning of which day she awoke with headache, which got gradually worse until midday. At that hour (12 o'clock noon) she felt faint and had a severe rigor. The headache now became violent, and she suffered from increasing dyspnoea, so that she had to go to bed. Her temperature was now found to be 103° F. Next morning her aspect was typhus-like in the extreme—eyes suffused, pupils contracted, face dusky, eyelids heavy and drooping. P. 116, R. 22, T. 103°. Physical examination suggested a commencing right basic pneumonia. Towards evening the temperature fell to 99"4°, nor did it rise again, as the chart shows. The physical signs during the next few days were — a shade of dulness over the right base in suc- cession to a remarkably clear percxission note ; also increased vocal resonance, resembling pec- toriloquy rather than bronchophony, and some crepitation (subcrepitus). The breathing was puerile over the left side. On Saturday, March 16, a patch of herpes labialis was observed near the left corner of the mouth. In contrast to this—to quote Ernst Ziegler— it may happen that "during the course of an attack of pneumonia inflammation makes its appearance in other organs, such as the peri- cardium, meninges, and mediastinal tissue, the