PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 23 cranial nerve by the inhalation of ammonia vapours has this action, and in all animals stimulation of the abdominal nerves produces the same effect. This reflex stimulation of the centre is used to determine its position in the medulla. It can be induced after removal I'lO. 128.—Conuection of the heart with the central nervous system. Au., Auricle; V., ventricle; V.D.C., abdominal vaso - dilator centre ; C.I.C., cardiac inhibitory centre ; C.A.C., cardio-augmentor centre; S.C., superior cardiac branch of the vagus; I.C., inferior cardiac branch of the vagus witli cell station in the heart; S., cardio-sympathetic fibres with cell station in the lenticular ganglion ; V.D.Ab., vaso-dilator fibres to abdominal vessels. The continuous lines are outgoing, the broken lines are ingoing nerves. of the brain above the medulla, but destruction of the medulla entirely prevents it. 3. Mode of Action.—These inhibitory fibres appear to act by stimulating the local inhibitory mechanism in the heart; and when this has been poisoned by atropine, they cannot act. According to the observation of Gaskell, they excite in the lieart anabolic changes, since the electric current of injury is increased when they ai-e stimulated, indicating that the difference between the living part of the heart and the injured part is increased {see vol. vii. p. 512). 4. Result of Action. — (a) The output of blood from the heart is diminished, and thus less blood is forced into the arteries, and the blood pressure falls (Fig. 134). (b) The rhythm of both auricles and ventricles is slowed, but the effect on the auricles is more marked than upon the ventricles, and the ventricles may show a contraction rhythm in- dependent of that of the auricles (Fig. 129, A.). (c) The force of contraction of the auricles is decreased. In the ventricles the systole becomes less complete and the cavities become more and more distended, either as a result of decrease in the force of contraction or as a mechanical result of the accumulation of blood due to the decreased output per unit of time. In the heart of the tortoise excitability and con- ductivity are decreased, and the auricular con- traction may fail to pass to the ventricles. C. Sympathetic Fibres.—The outgoing fibres are the augmentors and accelerators of the heart's action. When they are cut the heart may beat slower. When the peripheral end is stimulated, the rate and force of the heart are increased. 1. Course of the Fibres. — These are small meduUated fibres. They leave the spinal coi'd by the anterior roots of the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th dorsal nerves, passing to the stellate ganglion where they have their cell stations (Fig. 128). From the cells in this ganglion non-meduUated fibres run on in the annulus of Vieussens, and from this and from the inferior cervical ganglion they pass out to the muscular fibres of the heart. 2. The Centre is in the medulla, and it may be stimulated by stimulating various ingoing nerves, such as the sciatic; or it may be set in action from the higher nerve centres in various emotional conditions. 3. Mode of Action.—The fibres seem to act {a) upon the muscular fibres, increasing their excitability and conductivity; (b) upon the inhibitory mechanism, throwing it out of action. 4. Result of Action.—(a) The output of blood from the heart is increased, and the pressure of blood in the arteries is raised. [b) The rate of the rhythmic movements of auricles and ventricles is increased. (c) The force of contraction of auricles and ventricles is increased. It is probable that the cardiac sympathetic also carries ingoing fibres which enter the cord in the lower cervical region. The pain experi- enced in the arm in heart disease is generally thought to be due to the implication of these fibres leading to the sensation which is referred to the corresponding somatic nerves (vol. vii. p. 551). The vagus is thus the protecting nerve of the heart, reducing its work and diminishing the pressure in the arteries. Tlie sympathetic is tlie whip which forces the heart to increased action in order to keep up the pressure in the arteries. III. Gi^-culation in the Blood and Lymph Vessels The general distribution of the various vessels—arteries, capillaries, veins, and lym-