463 RABIES virulence of the rabic marrow, for in cases where rabbits have died from inoculation with the dried marrow their medulla still contains fixed virus. Immunity is not then obtained by inoculation with attenuated virus. Possibly the attenuated virus has only an impoverishing effect on the virus contained in the cord (Hogyes). Pasteur has a theory that the immunising agent points to the presence of an antitoxin matter associated with the rabic microbe. The microbe keeps its virulence intact in all the desiccated cords, but there destroys itself more quickly than the vaccinal matter. Vaccination with soluble substances elaborated from the rabic microbes has also been tried unsuccessfully. Babes and Cerchez, with moderate success, have employed blood of vaccinated animals as an agent. According to Nocard the vaccinated serum destroys the rabic virus when it is in contact with it, but it does not succeed in preventing its evolution. Treatment.—Prophylactic.—The most effi- cient prophylactic measures for checking the spread of rabies are sanitary regulations properly enforced. It is essential that all cases of known or suspected rabies be at once notified to the authorities, who have power to slaughter all animals suspected of having been bitten. The total destruction of all the contaminated animals is almost impossible owing to the vast number of ownerless dogs. This difficulty has been met and considerably modified in countries where there is a sufficiently high dog-tax. The Veterinary Congress at Vienna in 1869 fully recognised this. The payment of the tax would be considerably aided if all dogs were obliged to wear a tax medal. Bavaria is a striking example of vigilant police surveillance. In 1873 there were 821 cases of rabies in Bavaria; the numbers fell to 69 cases in 1881, and 6 cases in 1884. The enforcement of police regulations has banished rabies from the Grand Duchy of Baden, Holland, and Sweden. Curative Measures—(1) After the Bite.— When local treatment can be immediately applied it must not be neglected, always remem- bering that this treatment is very insufficient, and shoiild not inspire a false security. Immediately after the bite the wound must be attended to, first by tying a ligature on the limb above the bitten part, and then cauterising the wound deeply with a red-hot iron. If the teeth have not penetrated beyond the sound surface of the skin it is sufficient to bathe the infected parts with an antiseptic. Inoculation is always necessary, and ought to be done as soon as possible after the bite. According to the old method the treatment lasted ten days; an inoculation was made each day, commencing with the fourteenth day's marrow, and leading on successively to the fifth. At the present time this method is extensively employed, beginning with the fourteenth day's marrow and ending with the third. In serious cases the different degrees of marrow are used more rapidly, arriving on the third day to marrow of the sixth strength, and the fourth day to virulent marrow. The duration of the treatment varies, according to the gravity of the case, from fifteen to twenty-two days. If any pain is still felt at the seat of the bite a fresh series of inoculation is begun, which fre- quently may check the development of rabies. The inoculations are not very painful, and are only followed by a general local reaction, some- times by erythema and itching. In order properly to estimate the results of the inocula- tion treatment we must look at the statistics of the Pasteur Institute. In 1896 the number of persons treated was 1308, of whom only four died. This gives a mortality of 0"30 per 100. When this mortality is compared with the mortality of non-treated rabies, which is 16 per cent, the immense benefit of the Pasteur treatment can be better appreciated. The statistics of the Pasteur Institutes in France and other countries agree with those of Paris. Nevertheless there are many criticisms and objections made to rabic inoculation. Indeed, it is accused of being inefficient and dangerous ! The foregoing statistics conclusively answer the first objection, and Vulpion and Brouardel have replied to the second. They maintain and prove that of the inoculated cases which do not recover death is due to " the rabies of the streets," not to the "rabies of the laboratories," as Peter terms it. (2) After the Appearance of Rabies.—The Pasteur treatment is ineffectual after the rabies is pronoimced, unless it happen that the rabies come on during the course of the treatment— then there may still be hope. Noir and Poppi have saved cases of paralytic rabies, appear- ing about the twentieth day of treatment, by substituting intravenous injections for the subcutaneous. Other remedies are merely palliative. Large doses of morphia, chloral, chloroform, or bromide of potassium may be administered to soothe the paroxysms. The injection of artificial serum or continuous currents along the spine may be tried with good effect (Schivardi). Finally, it is essential to avoid all excitement, and keep the sufferer in a darkened room, avoiding light, noise, draughts, or anything likely to excite his extreme nervous susceptibility. Ra.ce. See Cholera, Epidemic {Etiology, Racial Relations); Generation, Female Organs OF {Pelvic Differences due to Race); Obesity {Etiology, Race). Ra.ceinOSea—Branched like a cluster of grapes (Lat. racemus, a cluster); e.g. a racemose