PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 70 Fceces.—The materials not absorbed from the intestine, whether these are derived from the food or from the alimentary canal, are thrown off from the rectum as the fseces. In fasting animals these are passed at long intervals, and consist of mucin, shed epithelium, the various products of the bile constituents, and inorganic salts. In feeding animals the amount and character of the fseces depend largely upon the amount and character of the food, and upon the bacteria which are growing in the large intestine. The unabsorbed material, as it passes down the large intestine, becomes inspissated from the absorption of water, but, if much undigested matter is present, water may also be added, and the consistence of the fteces may thus be varied. In the average condition they contain about 70 or 80 per cent of water. The colour is normally lirown, from the ha;matin of the flesh eaten, while the sulphide of iron formed by the split- ting of the hsematin compounds in the intestine may make them darker in colour. On a milk diet they are light yellow in colour, and if a large excess of fatty food is taken, or if fat is not absorbed, as in jaundice, they become clay- coloured. The derivatives of the bile pigments play but a small part in colouring the fseces. In infants, before bacteria are introduced and begin to exert their reducing action, the fseces may be green from the presence of unaltered biliverdin. The reaction of the fseces varies. Usually the outside of the mass is alkaline from the alkaline secretion of the intestine, while the inside is acid from the free fatty acids and other acids formed by the action of such acid- forming bacteria as the bacillus coli communis. The amount of solid fseces depends on the amount of food—a fairly average amount per diem is 150 grms. of dried solids. On a vege- table diet, from the presence of undigested cellulose, the amount is very much greater. The solids of the fajces of a feeding animal consist of the same constituents as the fseces in a fasting animal, with the addition of all the undigested constituents of the food—elastic and white fibrous tissue, remains of muscle fibres, often fat, and the earthy soaps of the fatty acids, and, when a vegetable diet is taken, the cellu- lose of the vegetable cells, and frequently starch. The cellulose, by stimulating the intestine, is a valuable natural purgative. The odour is due to the presence of aromatic bodies such as indol and skatol. Meconium is the name given to the first fseces passed by the child after birth. It is greenish- black in colour, and consists of inspissated bile and shed epithelium from the intestine. Alovevients of the Intestine.—These are of two kinds—myogenic and peristaltic. The myogenic movements are slight rhythmic contractions which pass rapidly along the intestine, and are insuflficient to drive on the contents, but are probably of use in churning and mixing them. By feeding with food mixed with bismuth, and employing X-rays, Cannon finds that the con- tents of the small intestine get broken up into small segments. This is possibly due to these myogenic movements (Fig. 163, p. 63). These movements occur when all the nerves have been divided, and when the ganglia in the intestinal walls have been poisoned with nicotine, and they are therefore due to the muscle fibres alone. The peristaltic movements are much more complex and powerful. They consist of a con- striction of the muscles, which seems to be ex- cited by the passage of the food, and may be caused by inserting a bolus of cotton-wool covered with vaseline. Starting at the upper end of the intestine, they pass slowly downwards. In front of the contraction the muscular fibres are relaxed, and thus the contracting part drives its contents into the relaxed part below. These peristaltic movements go on after the nerves to the gut are cut, but they are stopped when the ganglia in the wall of the intestine are poisoned with nicotine. It has therefore been concluded that the nerve ganglia in the intestinal wall form a local reflex mechanism, which is stimu- lated by the presence of foreign matter in the intestine, and which brings about the co-ordi- nated contraction and relaxation, which together constitute a true peristalsis. But while peristalsis is thus independent of the central nervous system, it is nevertheless controlled by it. The splanchnic nerves inhibit, while the vagus to the small intestine and upper part of the large gut, and the nervi erigentes to the lower part of the large gut, are augmentor nerves, increasing the peristalsis. Stimulation of the sympathetic fibres which inhibit the peri- stalsis causes contraction of the sphincter be- tween the small and large intestine. As the contents of the small intestine are forced through the ileo-csecal valve, the large intestine relaxes to receive them, and then a series of contractions passing from below up- wards—an anti-peristalsis—sets in by which the contents are very thoroughly churned. After- wards they are forced downwards by tonic peristaltic waves. The intestinal movements are inhibited by emotions. Defecation.—By the peristalsis of the intes- tine, the matter not absorbed from the wall of the gut is forced down and accumulates in the part of the rectum which passes horizontally forward to end in the vertical anal canal. It is prevented from escaping into this by the sharp fold which the last part of the bowel makes, and by the contraction of the strong sphincter ani muscle. Defsecation depends primarily on the intes- tinal peristalsis, without which it cannot be performed. When fseces accumulate in the