PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 18 ing the orifice; the muscular fibres which siirround the auriculo-^s'entricular opening con- tract, while the papillary muscles pull the auriculo-ventriciilar ring downwards and inwards through the chordje which are inserted into it. Nevertheless the occlusion of this orifice is apt to be iiacomplete when the right side of the heart becomes in the least over-distended, giving rise to a safety-valve action from the right ventricle. The auriculo - ventricular valves are Fig. 125.—State of the various parts of the heart throughout the cardiac cycle. 1, Auricular systole ; 2, beginning of ventricular systole (latent period); 3, pei'iod of outflow from the ventricle ; 4, period of residual contraction ; 5, beginning of ventricular diastole. during the whole of the cardiac cycle, except during the ventricular systole (Fig. 124). B. Semilunar Valves.—Before the ventricles contract these valves are closed and the various segments pressed together by the high pressure of^blood in the aorta. As the ventricles contract the pressure in them rises, until the intra-ventricular pressure becomes greater than the pressure in the arteries. Instantly the cusps of the valves are thrown back, and remain thus until the blood is expelled. When the outflow of blood is completed, the cusps are again approximated by the pressure of blood in the arteries. As relaxation of the ventricles occurs, the intra- ventricular pressure becomes suddenly very low, and the high pressure of the blood in the arteries at once falls upon the upper surfaces of the cusps, which are thus forced downwards and together, and thus completely prevent any back-flow of blood. The prejudicial effect of too great pressure upon these cusps is obviated by the lower cusp being mounted on the top of the muscular septum upon which the pressure falls—the other cusps shutting down upon this one (Fig. 118). The Flow of Blood through the Heart.— The circulation of blood through the heart depends upon these differences of pressure in the different chambers and upon the action of the valves. A fluid always flows from a point of high pressure to a point of lower pressure. We may then consider the flow — A. From Great Veins into Auricles. — This occurs when the pressure in the great veins is greater than the pressure in the auricles (Fig. 124). The pressure in the auricles is lowest at the moment of their diastole. At this time there is therefore a great flow of blood into them. but gradually this becomes less and less, until, when the ventricles dilate, another fall in the auricular pressure takes place and another rush of blood from the great veins occurs. Gradu- ally this diminishes, and by the time that the auricles contract the flow from the great veins has stopped. The contraction of the mouths of the great veins, which precedes the auricular systole, drives blood from the veins into the auricles, and, as these enter into contraction, no flow from the veins can occur and no back-flow from the auricles is possible (Fig. 124). B. From Auricles to Ven- tricles. — As the ventricles dilate, a very low pressure develops in them, and hence a great rush of blood occurs from the auricles. During the passive stage of ventri- cular diastole, the intra-ven- tricular pressure becomes nearly the same as the auricular, and the flow diminishes or may stop. When the auricles contract a higher pressure is developed, and a fresh flow of blood occurs into the ventricles. When the ventricles con- tract the auriculo-ventricular valves are closed, and all flow of blood from the auricles is stopped (Fig. 124). C. From Ventricles to Arteries.—When the ventricles begin to contract the intra-ventricular pressure is low, while the pressure in the arteries is high and keeps the semilunar valves shut. As ventricular systole goes on the intra- ventricular pressure rises, until after about 0-03 of a second it becomes higher than the arterial pressure (Late7it Period). Immediately the semilunar valves are forced open and a rush of blood occurs from the ventricles (Period of Overjloiv). This usually lasts less than 0-2 second. If the ventricles are acting powerfully, and if the pressure in the arteries does not offer a great resistance to the entrance of blood, the ven- tricles rapidly empty themselves into the arteries, and the intra-ventricular pressure varies as shown in Fig. 132, p. 27. If the heart, how- ever, is not acting forcibly, or if the arterial pressure offers a great resistance to the entrance of blood, then the outflow is slow and more con- tinued, and in this case the ti'ace of the intra- ventricular pressure is like Fig. 132, a, with a well-marked Period of Residual Contraction. It is not so much the absolute force of the cardiac contraction or the absolute intra-arterial pressure which governs this, as the relationship of the one to the other. The heart may not be acting very forcibly, but still if the pressure in the arteries is low its action may be relatively strong. The Coronary Arteries, unlike all the other arteries, are filled during ventricular diastole. During systole they are compressed by the