OPTIC NERVE 524 RETINA AND (2) An Altered Condition of the Blood.—This is possibly the operative cause, in part at least, of the haemorrhages found in cases of diabetes, severe anfemia, leucocythfemia, ague, purpura, scurvy, and pyaemia. Retinal haemorrhages, with tendency to re- currence, are occasionally met with in young people, particularly men, without any obvious cause. These haemorrhages may be small and peripheral, and of small consequence ; in other cases, or later in the same individuals, they are larger in size, often bursting through into the vitreous, and not seldom followed by detached retina and loss of sight. The treatment of retinal haemorrhage must necessarily vary with the general and local states with which it is associated or on which it depends. In recent cases of large haemorrhage into the vitreous, iced compresses may be applied over the eyelids. Inflammation of the retina is usually the result of some general disease, and the classifica- tion of its forms commonly adopted is clinical rather than pathological. When an inflamma- tion commences in the retina, the papilla is generally secondarily involved; and, again, ret- initis, mainly of the inner layer, is not infre- quent in cases of papillitis. The principal ophthalmoscopic evidences of retinitis are—loss of retinal transparency, dilata- tion of the veins, and a tendency to the occurrence of haemorrhages and white patches. Sometimes there are numerous opacities in the vitreous. Anatomically, we find serous infiltration of the retina, inflammatory exudations, haemorrhages in the inner or middle layers, fatty degenerations, swelling of the Mullerian fibres, and hypertrophy and sclerosis of nerve-fibres. The impairment of vision, both temporary and permanent, varies much in diff'erent cases. The treatment must be regulated mainly by the general condition of the patient. Complete rest of the eyes must be enjoined, along with the use of dark, neutral tint glasses. Counter- irritants to the temple are occasionally bene- ficial. HEMORRHAGIC RETINITIS is Serviceable as a clinical term in cases where we have numerous haemorrhages along with evidence of retinal in- flammation. It usually affects one eye only, and is seldom found before middle life is passed. The haemorrhages are generally small and numerous, chiefly in the inner layers of the retina; they are sometimes widely distributed over the fundus, at other times confined to the distribution of one retinal vein. The papilla is hyperaemic, with blurred margins. There is diffuse opacity of the retina from oedema, which may be general or localised. All the veins may be very greatly distended, or there may be a less degree of fulness in only one large branch. We frequently find a few circumscribed white spots, and occasionally these assume the stellate distribution at the macula that is so common in renal retinitis. Causes.—There are two types of this affection indicated in the above description, each probably with a distinct mode of occurrence. (a) When the veins are very greatly distended, while the arteries appear normal, the operative cause is possibly a venous thrombosis. This may affect the vena centralis or one of its branches ; in the latter case the venous engorge- ment, oedema, etc., are limited to the drainage area of the affected vessel. The reason for the occurrence of the thrombosis is generally obscure; there is usually, probably, a surrounding inflam- mation, implicating the vein secondarily. (b) The veins are not much distended, and look normal generally on the disc itself. The point of obstruction in the venous flow in such a case is usually ophthalmoscopically visible in one or more branches, and is then evidently due to the pressure exerted by an overlying retinal artery. The arteries present the appearances described above as character- istic of hyaline degeneration, the secondary and tertiary branches of the arteria centralis being particularly bright and " silver-wire " looking. Not infrequently we can, by tracing the ob- structed vein towards the periphery, observe oedema and haemorrhages in its area. The macula is sometimes involved in the oedema; we then usually find a few white spots in this situation, and occasionally these are arranged in rays diverging from the fovea (macular stellate figure); while exceptionally the extreme periphery of the macular neighbourhood is surrounded by a circle of white, irregular in breadth (circinate retinitis). The oedema, haemorrhages, white spots, etc., are secondary to the venous obstruction, which again is dependent on the arterial disease. This latter is, in the great majority of cases, if not always, only part of a widely diffused arterial degeneration, which tends particularly to affect the minute arteries of the retina, pia mater, and kidney. Patients with this retinal condition are very often gouty, and they fre- quently give a history of having suffered from severe migraine. In all such cases the urine should be examined carefully and repeatedly for the presence of albumin; the particular form of renal disease associated with this con- dition is the granular kidney. The local prognosis is unfavourable, though sight sometimes improves for a time. The general prognosis is also grave, in as far as there is a marked liability to the occurrence of cerebral thrombosis or haemorrhage. Albuminuric retinitis is a term long in general use, to indicate a definite ophthalmo- scopic picture of great clinical significance. It is characterised particularly by the presence of numerous soft-looking, light-coloured patches, and of small, opaque, sharply cut, very white