433 PULSE, THE bility, and when there are symptoms of cardiac failure, it is not unusual to find flickering move- ments in the external jugular veins. Tracings from these movements cannot easily be obtained, but when there is pulsation of the internal jugular veins the wave is of sufficient magnitude to be graphically recorded. The auricular type of venous pulse occurs in children more fre- quently than is generally supposed, and it may exist whenever the right heart has become dilated from any cause. It is also sometimes a Pulveres.- SCRIBING. -Powders {q.v.). See also Pre- FlQ. 136.—Simultaneous tracings of the liver and radial pulses. The liver pulse shows only one wave, the ventricular (a). The auricle is paralysed. (Mackenzie.) symptom of tricuspid regurgitation, and the writer recently obtained excellent tracings from the jugular vein of a child of eleven years suffering from mitral disease, and where a dis- tinct systolic murmur was present over the tricuspid area. The ventricular type of venous pulse also occurs in children. In three cases of grave cardiac disease tracings were obtained simultaneously with the radial pulse. All the patients were boys who suffered from very advanced mitral disease, accompanied with ex- treme hypertrophy and dilatation of the heart. The venous tracing in Fig. 137 is of the ventric- ular type, but a pulsation of this nature must be seldom obtained at such an early age. The patient was under the care of Dr. John Thomson, Fig. 137.—Venous pulse of the ventricular type in a boy set. 9 years, suffering from advanced mitrai disease with great dilatation and hypertrophy of the heart. who kindly permitted me to record the move- ment. After some weeks of treatment the boy was in a greatly improved condition, but at the time when the tracing was obtained his right auricle must have been temporarily paralysed. Pulses. See Diet (Vegetable Food, Cereals, Pulses). Pulsus.—The pulse, especially in such expressions as pulsus celer (quick pulse), pulsus higeminus (paired pulse), pulsus paradoxus, pulsus plenus, pulsus tardus (slow pulse), etc. See Pulse. VOL. VIII Pulvin£ir. — A cushion-like projection (Lat. pulvinar, a couch) on the posterior part of the optic thalamus of the brain. Pump, Breast. See Puerperium, Physiology; Puerperium, Pathology {Affec- tions of Breasts and Nipples). Pump, Stomach. See Toxicology {General Treatment of Poisoning). Punctum. — A point (plural, puncta), e.g. the puncta lacrimalia (openings into the lachrymal sac). See Lacrimal Apparatus, Dis- eases OF {Anatomy). Puncture. See Curettage {Dangers, Uterine Puncture); Ectopic Gestation {Treat- ment, Puncture of Foetal Sac): Hydrocephalus {Treatment, Surgical, Puncture of Skull); Morphinomania {Diagnosis, Puncture-marks); Ovaries, Diseases of {Ovarian Cysts, Treatment by Puncture) ; Spina Bifida {Treatment). Puncture, Lumbar. See Spine, Surgical Affections op {Lumbar Puncture). See also Hydrocephalus {Surgical Treatment, Lumbar Puncture); Meningitis, Tuberculous AND Posterior Basic {Diagnosis and Treat- ment, Lumbar Puncture); Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal {Diagnosis). Pupil, The. Diagnostic Importance .... 434 Nervous Mechanism . . . .435 Argyll-Robertson Pupil .... 437 Pupil in Acute Cerebral Disturbance . 437 See also Abdominal Aneurysm {Symptoms, In- equality of Pupils); Aorta, Aneurysm of {Symp- toms, Pupils); Brachial Plexus, Surgical Affec- tions of {Tears and Con- tusions, Symptoms); Brain, Physiology of {Third Nerve); Brain, Affections OF Blood-Vessels {Aucb- mia. Symptoms); Brain, Surgery of {Concussion, Symptoms); Brain, Sur- gery OF {Leptomeningitis, Symptoms); Brain, Cerebellum, Affections of {Haemorrhage, Symptomatology); Bromism {Symptoms, Pupils); Cataract {Diagnosis); Cocaine {Physiological Action) ; Eye, Clinical Examination op {An- terior Chamber, Iris, and Pupil); General Paralysis {Symptoms); Glaucoma {Causes and Pathology) ; Iris and Ciliary Bodies ; Medi- astinum {Tumours, Symptoms); Meningitis, Tuberculous {Symptoms); Neurasthenia {Symp- toms, Pupils); Physiology, Neuro-Muscular Mechanism {Anatomy of Eye, etc.); Retina and Optic Nerve {Atrophy of Optic Nerve, Symp- 28