PULSE, THE 407 A slow, irregular pulse is specially character- istic of cerebral tumour, abscess, or haemor- rhage. In children under two years of age suffering from tubercular meningitis, the writer believes the peculiar retardation of the pulse in the early stages of the disease is rarely observed. When it is present it is probably a very transient phenomenon. So far as his experience goes in these cases, the pulse at this age is generally very rapid from the time the child first comes under examination. But in tubercular menin- gitis in older children there is sometimes a type of irregularity which may be of some diagnostic value. Classification of Pulse Irregularities.—Pulse irregularities have been classified in various ways, none of which are altogether satisfactory. There has been much misconception of the symptom, because writers have drawn distinc- tions between the terms " intermittency " and "irregularity" in connection with the subject. Such a distinction is in reality a purely artificial one, as will be after- wards shown. A pulse can only be called '■'•intermittent" in the true sense of the word, when a whole heart-beat is, from time to time, entirely missed out, that is to say, the ventricle remains in a state of diastole for exactly two ordinary pulse intervals, and makes no attempt to con- tract during that time either prema- turely or otherwise. This condition of matters certainly does not seem to occur in children, so we may dispense with the phrase "inter- mittent pulse " in connection with the pulse ir- regularities observed during early life. Cushny, in an interesting paper on intermittent pulse, has attempted to classify the common types of irregularity which occur in adults on the basis of cardiac physiology. In animals, by stimulation of the auricle and ventricle respec- tively, he has been able to produce and distinguish two main forms of pulse irregularity or intermis- sion. The first is due to ventricular failure, and the second to auricular. It will be necessary to shortly summarise his conclusions in order to be in a position to deal adequately with the subject of pulse irregularity. The classification suggested by Cushny is worked out by observing what occurs in the behaviour of both the auricle and the ventricle during the so-called intermission in the arterial pulse. Now, clinically, it is only in exceptional cases that we have the opportunity of recording the auricular contractions. Ur. James Mac- kenzie has studied this subject in a most thorough and admirable manner, and by re- cording the pulsation of the jugular vein simultaneously with the radial pulse he has shown clearly what the right auricle is doing during the irregularity of the left ventricle. The left auricle, he concludes, in all probability acts similarly to the right one. The behaviour of the right ventricle he has also determined, in many cases, from graphic records of the pulsation of the liver or jugular veins, and he is led to believe that hemisystole of the heart does not occur. According to his numerous and highly reliable observations, the right ventricle does not act independently of the left, or very rarely so. Mackenzie has also shown that the auricles may retain their regularity without the ventricles necessarily following suit. That is to say, the ventricles may for some reason contract prematurely before the normal period of their diastole is finished, and the next auricular contraction will still come in at its proper interval after the preceding one. Under such circumstances the ventricle will not respond to this auricular contraction, but will wait for the next one. In the majority of cases where we find pulse irregularity, we have to determine its natm-e Fig. 56.—The "intermission " is equal to two pulse-intervals (Cushny's classitlcation). by an examination of the left ventricle alone. It is seldom that the behaviour of the other chambers of the heart can be observed unless the case be one of advanced cardiac disease. Therefore it will be well, clinically, to classify pulse irregularities according to what is revealed by a combined examination of the arterial pulse and the apex beat. The cardiograph must in some cases be used to make a simultaneous record of the left ventricular movement, or, in some instances, the simpler method of listening to the cardiac sounds may be adopted. Cushny's Classification of Pulse Irregularities. —Cushny recognises two main forms of pulse- intermission— (1) Those in which the intermission is about equal to two pulse-intervals (Fig. 56). (2) Those in which the intermission is shorter than two pulse-intervals (Fig. 57). He describes two varieties of intermission belonging to each of these classes, and his classification is as follows:— I. True veritricular intermissions, in which the pause is exactly equal to two pulse-intervals, and during which there is no cardiac sound. In the human subject this is certainly a very imcommon form, and very great discrimination would sometimes have to be exercised in deciding whether such a tracing should not properly be relegated to the next division. The supposed " dropped " beat may not really occur, for the premature contraction of the ventricle