PIGMENTATION 97 Pigrnenta-tion. See Adrenal Glands, Addison's Disease {Morbid Anatomy); Alcohol- ism (Vaso-motor Variations, Pigmentation) ; Drug Eruptions (Pigmentation); Liver, Dis- eases OF (Pigmentation of the Liver); Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis (Epidemic due to Arsenic, Pigmentation); Pregnancy, Affec- tions and Complications (Cutaneous Rashes); Pruritus (Consequences, Pigmentation); Rheum- atism, Rheumatoid Arthritis (Clinical Char- acters) ; Sclerodermia (Circumscribed Form, or Morphoea); Skin, Pigmentary Affections of the. Pig^mentodermia. See Skin, Pig- mentary Affections of the. Pig^ments of the Body and Excreta. Introductory . . . . .97 The Lipochromes . . . . .97 Hemoglobin and its Derivatives . . 99 The Melanins 100 Some Pigments not included in these Groups ...... 101 See also Blood (Special Examination, Pigment Granules); Hematoporphyrinuria ; H^emoglob- inuria ; Physiology, Tissues (Pigment Cells); Physiology, Blood (Red Cells); Physiology, Food and Digestion (Bile Pigments); Physi- ology, Excretion (Urine Pigments); Skin, Anatomy and Physiology (Pigment of the Skin); Skin, Pigmentary Affections of; Spectro- scope IN Medicine (Classification of Spectra); Urine, Pathological Changes in (Pigments). Of the pigments which contribute to the colora- tion of the various organs, tissues, and excreta of the animal body, some perform very import- ant functions, whereas others can only be regarded as mere waste products which are thrown out in the urine and fseces. These latter are for the most part products of the metabolism of the most important of the coloured constituents of the body, namely, hae- moglobin. The spectroscope has afforded very valuable aid in the recognition and study of many of the animal pigments, and especially of those derived from hsemoglobin, and renders possible their detection even when present in quantities so minute that they could hardly be found by other means. However, its indications require to be controlled by chemical methods, especially when it is sought to obtain the individual pig- ments in a condition of purity. Many of the animal pigments owe their importance to the parts which they take in adornment: but it must be remembered that many of the most brilliant hues of birds and insects are not of pigmentary origin, but are optical effects, interference colours, due to the structure of the surfaces which display them. Even excretory products are sometimes utilised vol. VIII for purposes of adornment, as, for example, uric acid, which, as F. G. Hopkins has shown, serves as the white pigment of the wings of certain butterflies, the Pieridse. Important as surface pigmentation is in con- nection with sexual selection, it is no less im- portant in affording protection by approximating the colours of animals to those of the surround- ings amongst which they live, or by offering a conspicuous warning that a brilliantly tinted insect belongs to a species which is unsuitable for food. In man such functions of the surface pigments are less conspicuously important than amongst the lower animals, but the colouring matters of the hair and skin, not to mention haemoglobin itself, which exerts a pronounced influence upon the surface tints, haA'e no incon- sidei'able share in adornment. The dark pigment of the choroid performs an important function in rendering the eyeball a dark chamber, and haemoglobin and the other respiratory pigments met with in some of the invertebrata are second to no other constituents of the animal body in the importance of the work which they perform, quite apart from any ornamental function. Our knowledge of the animal colouring matters is as yet very imperfect—far too in- complete, indeed, to permit of the satisfactory classification of the entire group. Many of them, however, may be placed in one of three fairly defined groups. One of these embraces the various pigments known as lipochromes. In a second are included hfemoglobin and its various coloured derivatives ; and in the third are classed the dark brown or black pigments which have received the name of melanins, and which are by many regarded as haemoglobin derivatives. The Lipochromes (No. 1, p. 98), or fat pig- ments, also known as luteins, are very widely distributed, both in the animal and vegetable kingdoms. They are for the most part yellow or red colouring matters, all of which are soluble in alcohol, ether, and chloroform, and are usually met with in combination with fats, from which they may be separated, without undergoing decomposition, by the process of saponification. The pigments of this class also agree in being more or less rapidly decolorised by light, with the formation of colourless derivatives which, accord- ing to Krukenberg, are allied to cholesterin. In the solid state they yield a blue colour with concentrated sulphuric or nitric acid, and some of them yield a blue colour with iodine, whereas with others this reaction is only very imper- fectly obtained. The lipochromes are charac- terised spectroscopically by showing absorption bands towards the violet end of the spectrum, either a single band near the F line, or, in addition, a second band between F and G. Carotin, the colouring matter of the carrot, has been more thoroughly studied than any other 7