71 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES rectum, the mucous membrane is stimulated, and impulses are sent up to inhibit a centre in the lumbar region of the cord which keeps the sphincter ani contracted, and the sphincter is relaxed and the escape of faeces made possible. In some diseases of the cord this centre is stimu- lated and cannot be inhibited, and thus defseca- tion is interfered with, while in other diseases, when this centre has been destroyed, the sphincter does not contract, and fseces may- escape continuously. Normally the act of defsecation is partly voluntary and partly involuntary. The volun- tary part of the act consists in closing the glottis and making a forced expiration so as to press upon the contents of the abdomen, while at the same time the perineal muscles are re- laxed and the rectum straightened, and thus the contents are allowed to pass into the anal canal. The act is completed by the emptying of the canal by the contraction of the levatores ani muscles. ///. Absorption OF Food.—1. State in vihich Food leaves the Alimentary Canal.—The carbo- hydrates generally leave the alimentary canal as monosaccharides ; but some resist the action of digestion more than others. Lactose seems to be broken down in the intestine only when the special lactase is present in the succus entericus, but in all cases it is broken down before it reaches the liver. Cane sugar when taken in large excess may also be absorbed, and it is then excreted by the kidneys. The ^j'o^ems are absorbed as peptones, possibly as proteoses, and as the amino-acids and other crystalline compounds formed by the action of trypsin and erepsin (vol. vii., p. 490). Native proteins may be absorbed unchanged from the lower bowel, since it has been found that when egg white is injected into an isolated part of the rectum it disappears to a very considerable extent. The fats are chiefly absorbed as soaps and as fatty acids. 2. Mode of Absorption of Food.—That absorp- tion is not due merely to a process of ordinary diffusion or osmosis is clearly indicated by many facts. (1) Heidenhain has shown that absorption of water from the intestine takes place much more rapidly than diffusion through a dead membrane. (2) The relative rate of absorption of different substances does not follow the laws of diffusion. Grubler's peptone passes more easily through the intestine than glucose, but glucose passes more readily through parchment paper, while sodium sulphate, which is more diffusible than glucose, is absorbed much less readily. Again, as shown by Reid, an animal can absorb its own serum under conditions in which filtration into blood capillaries or lacteals is excluded. In such a case osmosis cannot play a part. Absorption is stopped or diminished when the epithelium is removed, injured, or poisoned with fluoride of sodium, in spite of the fact that this must in- crease the facilities for osmosis and filtration. 3. Channels of Absorption.—There are two channels of absorption from the alimentary canal (see Fig. 115, p. 10)—the veins which run together to form the portal vsin of the liver, and the lymphatics which run in the mesentery and, after passing through some lymph glands, enter the receptaculum chyli in front of the vertebral column. From this, the great lymph vessel, the thoracic duct, leads up to the junc- tion of the subclavian and innominate veins, and pours its contents into the blood stream. The lymph formed in the liver also passes into the thoracic duct. (1) Proteins.—Peptones and the further pro- ducts of their digestion are formed from pro- teins in digestion, but they seem to undergo a change in the intestinal wall before passing to the tissues, since they are not found in the blood. That in some altered condition they leave the intestine by the blood and not by the lymph is shown by the fact that their absorp- tion is not interfered with by ligature of the thoracic duct. During the digestion of proteins the number of leucocytes is enormously increased, some- times to more than double their previous number, and in all probability it is they which carry the products of digestion from the intes- tine. According to the observations of Pohl, the leucocytes are derived from the lymph tissue in the intestinal wall, but more recent experiments tend to show that they come from the bone marrow, being probably attracted to the intestine by a positive chemiotaxis. By breaking down in the blood stream they prob- ably set free the proteins for use in the tissues. When an excess of proteins is taken in the food, it is broken down in the lining membrane of the gut, and the nitrogen is rapidly excreted in the urine as urea, and thus the entrance of an excess of nitrogen to the tissues is prevented. Its non-nitrogenous part remains available as a source of energy. It has been pointed out that gastric juice does not dissolve the nucleo-proteins, but that the pancreatic juice does so. Phosphorus is undoubtedly absorbed in organic combination, but the mode of absorption and the channels by which it passes from the intestine have not been investigated. (2) Carbohydrates.—Although the chief mono- saccharid formed in digestion is dextrose, others are also produced—laevulose from cane sugar and galactose from milk sugar. All these are absorbed in solution, and are carried away in the blood of the portal vein. (3) Fats.—After being split up into the com- ponent acids and glycerin, fats pass, as soluble soaps or as fatty acids soluble in the bile, through the borders of the intestinal epithelium.