204 POST-MORTEM METHODS spreads from the cervix, though sarcoma and tubular cancer may commence at the fundus. In puerperal feve7- the inner wall is shreddy and covered with foul discharge. Ulcers with sloughy base may be present, or abscesses may be present in the uterine wall. The ovarian veins may contain purulent thrombi. The remaining structures on the posterior abdominal wall must now be examined. The aorta may show atheroma or aneurysm. In psoas abscess the psoas muscle is replaced by a thick-walled abscess cavity, which must be followed up to its origin in the bodies of the vertebrae. Clear the bodies of the vertebrcB and examine them for fracture, dislocation, or disease. Thorax.—The skin incision and method of clearing the front of the thorax have already been described (p. 196). Cut through the costal cartilages obliquely downwards and outwards, beginning at the second. The knife is held nearly horizontal, so that when one cartilage is cut through, the haft falls on the next below, and thus the medias- tinal contents are protected from injury. If the cartilages are calcified it is better to saw the ribs or divide them with the cutting bone- forceps well beyond the costo-chondral junctions. Lifting the lower end of the sternum, separate the diaphragm from the costal cartilages, and free the sternum, keeping the knife close to its posterior surface. With the bone-forceps cut through the first rib cartilage, and separate the clavicle at its articulation with the manubrium. In children the thymus gland, lying on the upper surface of the pericardium, behind the upper part of the sternum, and extending up into the thoracic inlet, must be examined, and any morbid appearance noted. Then proceed to examine the lungs and heart. The Pleurw are usually opened into in re- moving the sternum. Note the presence in them of fluid, general or localised, and its nature; exudation of lymph; adhesions, recent or fibrous, and their position. The fluid, as in other serous cavities, may be clear and straw- coloured in hydrothorax; turbid, containing flakes of lymph, in pleurisy; blood-stained in malignant disease of pleura, e.g. sarcoma, or in injury to the chest wall or lung. It may be purulent or putrid and offensive in empyema. Remove and measure the fluid. Normally the pleura contains from half to one ounce of clear straw-coloured fluid, and its surface is smooth and glistening, showing in the adult a varying amount of carbon pigmentation. Lymph.-—-On all serous surfaces, so long as lymph can be removed, leaving a smooth and shining, though congested surface, the inflam- mation is recent. When organisation com- mences it causes more or less incorporation of the lymphy layer with the surface. Fully organised adhesions are practically non-vascular. Next open the Pericardium. Pinch up a fold of it and incise it from base to apex. From the middle of this incision cut downwards towards the right auricle so as to expose the whole heart. The contents may be similar to those found in the pleural cavities. On the epicardium localised, white fibrous thickenings—"milk-spots" — may be present. Tuberculosis and malignant disease of the peri- cardium are rare and practically always secondary. The Heart. — Examine the heart in situ. Note size, dilatation of individual cavities, and their proportion to each other. In great dilata- tion of the right auricle the venous sinuses are also distended. Remove the heart. Lift it by the ventricles well out of the pericardial sac, and cut across successively the inferior vena cava, left and right pulmonary veins, pulmonary artery, aorta, and superior vena cava. Open the cavities in the order in which the blood flows through them. Right Auricle. — With the curved probe- pointed bistoury join the venae cavee, and from the centre of this incision cut into the appendix. Turn out thrombus, and notice whether it is distinctly adherent in the appendix, indicating ante-mortem formation. Note whether the fora- men ovale is patent. Examine the tricuspid opening. This nor- mally, in the adult, admits three fingers. Take the cone diameter if desired. Vegetations are rarely present. Place the heart on its posterior surface, and make an incision into the right ventricle, half- an-inch from and parallel to the septum ven- triculorum. Holding the heart up by the margin of the cut pulmonary artery, allow a stream of water to flow into the artery, to test the competence of the valve. If thrombus be present, remove it before using the water test. If the water be retained the valve is competent. Take the cone diameter if desired. Continue the incision in the ventricle upwards into the pulmonary artery, cutting the latter close to the septum. The incision, if correctly made, ought to pass between two cusps. Note thick- ening, or, rarely and chiefly in infants, vegeta- tions on the ventricular surfaces of the cusps. Examine the Eight Ventricle. Note the con- sistence, hypertrophy, or atrophy of the muscle. Note whether the sub-epicardial fat is invading the muscle. Note pallor, or a patchy yellow- ness of the muscle, the latter indicating fatty degeneration. The ventricle may contain ante- mortem thrombus, adherent between the columnse carnese, and, passing upwards into the pulmonary artery, in this situation showing the imprints of the sinvises of Valsalva. The wall of the ventricle varies in thickness normally from one-eighth of an inch at the apex, to one- quarter of an inch near the auriculo-ventricular groove.