PONOS 192 from the large marsh Berberonta is carried by the wind to Hydra and Spetsee, the sea being a good conductor of this miasm, which is, how- ever, impeded by the presence of hills. He mentions as symptoms the following— Beginning as an ordinary intermittent fever, it later becomes irregular; loss of strength and appetite, swelling of abdomen, chai'acteristic septic odour of urine, straw colour of face and body; enlargement of spleen, but not of liver; necrosis of the jaws, especially the upper. Duration—months, not weeks. Microscopically—no increase of leucocytes. Boys and girls attacked equally often. Diagriosis.—From dentition, leuksemia, mal- arial fever. Treatment. — Quinine, good food, nursing, wine, cauterisation of gangrenous patches. Pons. See also Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth (^Localisation of Lesion in Nerve-Deaf- ness) ; Brain, Physiology of {Blood-Supply of Pons); Brain, Affections op Blood-Vbssels (Vascular Lesions of Pons) ; Brain, Tumours op (Pons).—^Lesions of the pons are of interest to the practitioner in at least two directions. Firstly, in cases where there is a gross lesion of the pons of a nature demonstrable to the naked eye, e.g. tumour growth; and in the second place there is a wider group of so-called nervous cases where some of the symptoms present are directly traceable to disturbance in this part of the central nervous system. For the due appreciation of either case we must have a clear conception of the physiology of the part, noting specially— 1. The part which the pons plays as the transmitter of motor impulses from the brain cortex. 2. Its function as a transmitter of sensory impressions from the periphery. 3. The function of its grey matter as the nuclei of origin of the cranial nerves, especially the 5th, 6th, and 7th, and the close relationship of the 6th nucleus to the nucleus of the 3rd nerve, whereby a lesion of the nucleus of the 6th nerve is attended by paresis or paralysis of that nerve, and also paresis of the internal rectus muscle on the other side (Conjugate Paralysis). Bearing these in mind we will readily under- stand how a localised lesion in this region may produce very definite symptoms of a unilateral or bilateral nature; and if we bear in mind that the fibres of the facial nerve decussate in the lower half of the pons, at a level lower than the crossing of the pyramidal tract, we will understand how a condition of alternate or crossed paralysis (vide vol. i. p. 496) may be bi'ought about. The diagnosis of a localised lesion in the pons is as a rule fairly easy, and is made from a study of the positive and negative symptoms present in each case (see art. on " Brain, Tumours of," vol. i. p. 486). It is much more difficult, and frequently impossible in cases of a more general nature, to determine how far the various motor or sensory disturbances are due to lesions in the pons rather than to disease in a region above or below that level. And, fortunately, in most cases the differential diag- nosis is immaterial. The cause of the difficulty lies in the tendency for the occurrence of wide- spread vascular disease in these cases. Some diseases, for long regarded essentially lesions of the nervous system, are now looked upon as more of the nature of a general toxaemia with the chief local incidences in the nervous system, where the toxic agencies at work have exerted their influences primarily on the blood-vessels. In view of this, in all so-called nervous cases, more especially those of an ill-defined nature, it is well to carefully consider how far the anomalous symptoms may be due to vascular lesions in the pons or other part of the central or peripheral nervous system. This can only be determined by a careful study of the history and condition of each case, and in some cases the diagnosis of such vascular lesions can only be arrived at by a process of exclusion. The lesions of the pons met with in cases of cerebral hfemorrhage and in cases of bulbar paralysis are referred to in their special sections (vol. i. p. 458, and vol. vii. p. 300). PontiCUlUS. — A small ridge on the cranial aspect of the cartilage of the external ear. Pontresina,. »S^ee Therapeutics, Health Resorts (Switzerland). Poplitea.1.—Belonging to the hollow at the back of the knee (Lat. poples, the ham); the muscle in this region, therefore, is called the popliteus. See Aneurysm (Popliteal); Ar- teries, Ligature op (Popliteal); Knee-Joint, Diseases of (Bursce in the Popliteal Space); Lymphatic System (Glands); Nerves, Peri- pheral (Diseases of Special Spinal Nerves); Syphilis (Tertiary, Vascular System, Popliteal Artery). Poppy. See Opium. Popula,tion. See Vital Statistics (Population). PorCUpineDisea.se. /See Ichthyosis (Ichthyosis Hystrix). PorencephaiUS.—A state of defective development (congenital or acquired) of the cerebrum, consisting in the presence or forma- tion of small spaces or depressions, some of which may open into the ventricles. See Athe- tosis (Morbid Ayiatomy); Mental Deficiency (Congenital Cases, Porencephalic).