PULSE, THE 428 shows some characters which are not usually observed in children. Attention has already been drawn to the interesting fact that high case in young adults. The writer has made numerous observations on the state of the arterial blood-pressure in the pneumonias of children by means of the large Hill-Barnard sphyg- mometer ; sometimes it is fairly high at the very commencement of the disease in children about five years of age and over, but only for a com- paratively short period (Fig. 123); it soon falls, and tends to remain low. The Relation of the Blood-Press^ire to the Post- FlG. 119.—Very rapid pulse (160 per minute) showing respiratory variations from a child aged 2\ years with tubercular meningitis. Temp. 100°, resp. 48. (Upper tracing is of respiration.) temperatures in infants under one year of age do not render the pulse dicrotic. Therefore sphygmograms which are taken from babies suffering from acute croupous pneu- monia indicate relatively high pressure, and one must not infer from this that the general state of the heart is satis- factory, and that the child is doing well (Fig. 121). In children over one year of age, and under three years, tracings are some- times obtaiaed which indicate high pressure, and sometimes the pulse-curves are of the anacrotic type. But as a rule, in young children, sphyg- Fio. 122.—Typical pulse of croupous pneumonia at the height of the disease (child ajt. 3i years). mortem Appearances of the Lungs.—In croupous pneumonia of the so-called sthenic type, in healthy young adults, it is not unlikely that the greatly increased arterial blood pres- sure at the invasion of the disease leads to an exudation of fibrin and corpuscles into the air vesicles of the lung. Pro- fessor Hamilton, from his large experi- ence of post-mortem examinations, states that the lungs of young children who die from so-called acute croupous pneu- monia do not present the same features in this respect as the lungs of adults who die of the same disease. Ten years ago he remarked to the writer that the relatively low blood-pressure in children during pneumonic Fig. 120.—Pulse in simple basic meningitis (child set. 3^ years). Shows fairly high pressure curves under slight pyrexia (temp. 100°), but is rapid and fairly regular. No contraction of radial artery. mograms taken at the onset of croupous pneu- monia only show high-pressure characters over a comparatively short period. In a day or two, or sooner, the sys- tolic wave appears as a single sum- mit, and the di- crotic notch is well marked. In moderately severe cases of Fio. 123.—simultaneous tracings of pulse and lespiration in a typical case of acute croupous pneumonia at the commencement. Shows good arterial pressure. (Child a;t. 8 years. Temp. 102°, pulse 120, croupous pneu- resp. eo.) monia in j^oung children the type of pulse-curve at the height of the disease is of the character shown in Fig. 122. The State of the A^-terial Blood-Pressure.—The Fig. 121.—Pulse in croupous pneumonia ; child 11 months old (relatively high pressure). onset of acute croupous pneumonia in children does not seem to be characterised by a full, bounding, high-pressure pulse, as is often the attacks might partly explain wliy there was no throwing out of fibrin into the vesicles of the lungs. Observations on the pulse- and blood- pressure in acute croupous pneumonia in children tend to confirm this opinion. The Special Tendency to a Fall of Blood- Pressure in the Pneumonias of Children. —One of the most striking points about pneumonia of all kinds in children is the remarkable tendency for the blood pres- sure to fall, and in broncho-pneumonia this is the main thing to guard against- To antici- pate the, sometimes fatal, fall of blood pressure is the chief object of our treatment.