PUERPERIUM, PHYSIOLOGY OF 355 which the child died, or was fed by hand, the average was 10'3 oz. The number in the latter class is small, as only two were still-born, and among the others weaning was not en- couraged. But though the number is too small for much stress to be laid on the figures, it is at least clear that non-suckling does not increase the quantity of lochia. The age and parity of the patient were found to bear no relationship to the amount of the lochia. On the other Iiaud, the quantity was found to vary directly with the weight of the child, and especially with that of the placenta ; with the amount of blood lost at the time of labour, and with the habitual amount of the menstrual flow; whilst the quantity was also greater in the case of dark colouring and complexion than with fair women. B. Changes in the Pelvic Organs—Involution. —1. The Uterus—The changes in the uterus constitute by far the largest and most im- portant feature of the process of involution. For whereas we have to study, in the abdominal wall, the recovery from distension; in the uterine appendages, broad ligaments, and bladder, the return from mechanical displace- ment ; in the vagina, vulva, and perineum, the recovery from violence during labour ; we have to follow, in the case of the uterus, the extra- ordinary and rapid changes by which an organ weighing 2 to 3 lbs. is transformed, within six or eight weeks, into one weighing 1 to 2 ounces. The process is rapid enough to be readily traced at the bedside, and we shall take this aspect of the subject first; after which will be considered the anatomical changes on which the clinical phenomena are based. Lastly, we shall have to inquire how far the way in which involution is eiFected is explained by histological and chemical data. {a) Clinical Features.—At the conclusion of the third stage of labour the uterus can be felt, under normal conditions, firmly contracted, and lying in the hypogastrium, reaching nearly up to the umbilicus. It has been aptly com- pared to a cricket-ball, in the impression it conveys to the hand. Contraction is not con- tinuous, but rhythmical; but in the intervals of relaxation it should remain retracted, and it is found in this condition except when haemor- rhage is going on or when distended with clots. On palpating the uterus during the phase of re- traction with relaxation, it feels rather soft and ill-defined, and its upper border usually reaches a slightly higher level than during contraction. With the progress of involution the uterus gradually recedes from the abdomen, and when the process is complete it has resumed its normal non-parous position of an entirely pelvic organ. By noting the position of the uterus on the successive days of the puerperium we can obtain a valuable clinical indication of the progress of involution, or, on the other hand, of its disturb- ance and interruption by pathological conditions, of which we thus receive an early warning. The estimation of the uterine recession has been attempted in various ways. Hecker, Buhl, and Scanzoni measured the uterus of women who died at different times after delivery. SerdukofF collected from the tables of these authors the cases where death did not apparently arise from disease of the sexual organs, and where, consequently, involution was almost normal; and he thus got 23 cases, including 2 of his own. But he concluded that no reliable data could be derived from such a small number. SerdukofF also attempted to gauge the uterine measure- ments by the introduction of the sound ; but he concluded, as other writers have done, that this plan, besides being not devoid of risk, was also unreliable in its results. Sinclair adopted the sound for measuring the uterine cavity at various intervals after delivery; but, as only one obser- vation was made on each of his 324 cases, his results are of little value for the present purpose. Wieland was the first to adopt the plan of external measurements of the length and breadth of the uterus. He concluded that up to the seventh day there was a daily diminution in length of from 1 to 1| cm., and after that of ^ to 1 cm. At the tenth day he described the uterus as being out of reach of measurement, having receded behind the symphysis. Schneider carried out some observations by a similar method. SerdukofF undertook a careful investigation, with special precautions to exclude sources of error; he concluded that the transverse measurements gave a more reliable indication of involution than the vertical ones. We shall have to refer later on to his resumt'j of the circumstances by which involution is affected. The best recent work is that of Stevens and Griffith. They advocate vertical measurements, because the transverse measurement is difficult to take, and not practicable with any degree of accuracy after the first four days, unless the uterus remains abnormally large. To obviate fallacies, the measurement must be taken at nearly the same hour daily; the bladder and rectum must be empty, and the uterus must be in the normal mesial position and anteverted, and must be measured in a state of contraction. The character of the pelvis must also be borne in mind : in a flattened pelvis the uterus will be found considerably higher than in a kyphotic pelvis (Barbour). Stevens and Griffith suggest a convenient way of recording the variations in the height of the fundus, by the use of the ordinary temperature chart; the 100° F. line of the chart is taken to represent the pubes, and the lines above, 101", 102°, etc., represent in inches the height of the fundvis above the pubes. The height of the fimdus on successive days is here given according to Stevens and Griffith (the figures representing approximately the