149 PLEURA, AFFECTIONS OF THE—SURGICAL Injuries of the Pleura.—Severe contusion of the chest, without fracture or external wound, may cause rupture of both pleural layers, and be followed by surgical emphysema {q.v.), pneu- mothorax, hfemothorax, or inflammation of the pleura with effusion. Such an injury will prob- ably be associated with graver damage to the lung, and the symptoms and treatment may, in some measure, be influenced thereby. As the air is mechanically freed from germs in its passage through the lungs it enters the pleural cavity quite pure, and accordingly such injuries, in nearly every case, may be expected to rim an aseptic course. Emphysema of the cellular tissue may be left to nature, as the air becomes absorbed in about a week. It is only when the air is widely diffused and its pressure embarrassing, that it may be dealt with by multiple punctures with a fine trocar. Pneumothorax thus arising may also be watched, unless the dyspnoea be extreme, when a fine trocar and cannula may be employed for the release of the air. It is not desirable to use an aspirator in either of these conditions. Hcemothorax, in like manner, should not be interfered with unless the dyspnoea be distress- ing ; and if the aspirator be used for the evacua- tion of the blood, care should be taken not to draw fresh blood by undue suction. The mechanical assistance of the air and blood in the cavity, with consequent compression and temporary shrinkage of the lung, is favourable to the closure of the rent in the visceral pleura, hence the excuse for non-operative measures, save in extreme dyspnoea. Lacerations of one or both pleural layers may occur in simple fractures of the ribs or sternum, particularly in those due to direct violence, and the same principles of treatment apply. Penetrating Wounds.—Wounds of various kinds, including gunshots and compound frac- tures, admitting air from without to the pleural sac are regarded as penetrating, the parietal layer of the membrane being considered the boundary. Apart from the associated visceral damage, these injuries derive their gravity from septic matters carried in from the surface, scraps of clothing and metallic bodies lodged in the sac. It should be remembered that the pleurse may be wounded through the abdomen or at the root of the neck. Traumatopnoea, or breathing through the wound, is a sign of penetration, but it does not necessarily imply wound of the visceral pleura. In obscure cases it is unwise to probe small wounds lest penetration be thereby caused. It is better practice to enlarge the surface wound and examine it with the finger, if it be desirable to ascertain its depth, or to deal effectively with intercostal haemorrhage. Small incised wounds, after thorough anti- septic cleansing, may be closed at once, and if sutures are used they should not include the parietal layer. Larger wounds, and all punc- tured and gunshot wounds, after similar careful disinfection, should be covered with a copious absorbent antiseptic dressing and binder. It is better not to close them completely, so that drainage may be secured. Many such heal without inflammation. Even gunshot wounds with lodged bullets often do well, as the experi- ence of the South African war abundantly illustrates; and it further teaches that pro- longed search by extensive operations for these projectiles is not the best course to adopt. Lodged foreign substances, if readily accessible, should of course be extracted, either through the wound, which may be enlarged for this purpose, or through an independent incision ; metallic bodies being located by the X-ray apparatus when available. In the later management of these cases, should temperature, pulse, and dulness indicate inflam- matory effusion, the character of this may be estimated by the exploring syringe. If purulent, arrangements must be made for free drainage, either by enlarging the wound, or, if this be in an unfavourable situation, by an independent opening, according to the principles laid down in the section on empyema. Tumours of the Pleura.—Primary neoplasms are rare. Secondary growths arising by exten- sion of tumours from the lung, mediastinum, breast, or adjacent bones are not uncommon. Primary Tumours. Secondary Tumours. 1. Fibroma. 1. Sarcoma. 2. Sarcoma. 2. Cancer. 3. Endothelial cancer. Fibrous tumours have been described by Kingston Fowler and Steven forming broad thickenings of the pleura with dense adhesions to the lung. Their structure is laminated, enclosing small cysts, very dense and glistening on section, and of a pink colour. They are incapable of surgical extirpation. Sarcomata in all varieties occur, but the round-celled is the commonest. Endothelial tumours, which are microscopically indistinguishable from true cancers, are supposed to spring from the pleural endothelium, or from the original surface epithelium of the embryo. These either form whitish nodules scattered over the parietal layer, or broad, flat, continuous infiltrations covering the entire membrane. Diagnosis.—The early symptoms are obscure : shortness of breath, loss of strength and weight, and coughing. There may be slight fever, irregular vomiting, and albuminuria. Pain may be wholly absent, slight, or persistently severe. At a later stage dark or bloody effusion will probably be found, and this may be the first sign to suggest the diagnosis. The fluid may be microscopically examined for cell elements, for it must be borne in mind that