92 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES is prevented, it accumulates, and is called sensible 2}erspiration. A free secretion of sweat is usually accom- panied by a dilatation of the blood-vessels of the skin, but this may be absent, and it may occur without any sweat secretion—e.g. under the influence of atropine. 3. Nervous Mechanism of Sweat Secretion.— The sweat glands are under the control of the central nervous system. This may be very conveniently studied in the cat, in which animal the sweat glands are chiefly in the pads of the feet. If a cat be put in a hot chamber it sweats on the pads of all its feet. But if one sciatic nerve be cut the foot supplied remains dry. If the cat be placed in a warm place and the lower end of the cut sciatic stimulated, a secretion of sweat is produced. These sweat- secreting fibres all pass through the sympathetic ganglia, and back into the spinal nerves. Those to the leg and foot come from the upper lumbar region, those for the hand and arm from the fifth to the eighth cervical nerve, and those for the head in the sympathetic of the neck and partly in the fifth cranial nerve. The centres presiding over these nerves are distributed down the medulla and cord. They are capable of (a) reflex stimulation, as when pepper is taken into the mouth; and {b) of direct stimulation by a venous condition of the blood, as in the impaired oxygenation of the blood which so frequently precedes death as the respirations fail. But even after the nerves to the sweat glands are cut, the glands can be stimulated by certain drugs—e.g. pilocarpine. The action of heat seems also to be chiefly peripheral, setting up an unstable condition of the gland cells so that they respond more readily to stimulation. 4. Chemistry of Sweat.—Sweat is a clear, watery fluid, with a faintly acid reaction from admixture with sebum and from the presence of acid sodium phosphate. It has a character- istic odour. Its specific gravity is low, about 1004, and it contains less than 2 per cent of solids, of which the chief is NaCl. Of the organic solids, urea is the most important. About 4 or 5 per cent of the total nitrogen excreted from the body is thrown oft" by the skin in this form, and, when the action of the kidneys is interfered with, very considerable quantities may be eliminated. The sweat nearly always contains epithelial squames from the epidermis, and oil globules derived from the sebum. B. Sebaceous Secretion. — The sebaceous glands are simple racemose glands which open into the hair follicles, and their function is to supply an oily material to lubricate the hairs. This secretion is produced by the shedding and breaking down of the cells formed in the follicles of the glands. Those lining the base- ment membrane are in a condition of active division, but the cells thrown off into the lumen of the follicle disintegrate and become converted into a semi-solid oily mass, which consists of free fatty acids and of neutral fats of glycerine and of cholesterin. These cholesterin fats are the lanolins, which dift'er from ordinary fats in being partly soluble in water. Free cholesterin is also present in the sebum. C. Milk Secretion.—1. Physiology.—Before pregnancy occurs the mammary glands are largely composed of fibrous tissue, with a large amount of fat, in which run the branching tub- ules of the glands as small solid blocks of cells. As pregnancy advances these tubules grow outwards and increase, and the cells begin to divide, some remaining attached to the basement membrane, some coming to lie in the middle of the tubules. These latter undergo a fatty change and break down, and they are shed in the first milk which is secreted, the colostrum. The cells left upon the basement membrane elaborate the constituents of milk, and the presence of fat globules in their protoplasm is very manifest. The milk, after being secreted, collects in the ducts of the glands and in the sinus below the nipple, and is expelled from these by the contraction of the muscular fibres in their walls, and by the suction of the young animal. The excretion of milk from the ducts is directly under the control of the nervous system, but the evidence as to the way in which the central nervous system influences the secretion of milk is by no means satisfactory. Clinical experience shows that it is profoundly modified by nervous changes, but so far stimulation of the nerves to the glands has not yielded definite results. The chemistry of milk is considered upon p. 54, and the way in which fats and proteins are formed is dealt with on p. 74. The pro- duction of the disaccharid lactose and of the phospho-protein caseinogen implies a synthetic process in the protoplasm of the cells of the mammary glands. PART III.—Reproduction See Embryology ; Fcetus and Ovum, Develop- ment OF; Generation, Female Organs of ; Labour; Menstruation; Pregnancy; Puer- PERiuM; Scrotum and Testicle {Anatomy of the Testis) ; etc. Appendix—Organic Chemistry The following elementary facts may help the reader who has neglected the study of the out- lines of organic chemistry in understanding the chemical problems of physiology. Organic compounds are built round the four- handed carbon atom —C— I