118 PLAGUE occurred, but all the symptoms were referable to the intestinal tract, with vomiting, diarrhoea, and passage of bloody slime per rectum. It has not been observed in Bombay. Personally I have only observed intestinal symptoms in those cases which have also been suffering from one of the other well-marked types of plague. (5) Pestis Ambulans.—This term shovild be reserved for those cases of true plague in which the symptoms and constitutional disturbances are mild. There may be pain in several groups of glands and slight fulness or swellings in the groin, axilla, or neck, which swellings ultimately resolve or suppurate. There is some prostra- tion, a varying amount of fever, some conjunc- tival injection, and may be some inco-ordination of speech; the tongue has a creamy coat with clean edges. The characteristics of this form of the disease are therefore those of a mild bubonic type of plague, not readily recognised unless looked for with care, and apt to be mistaken for mumps, syphilis, tubercular glands, or the results of strains and injuries. It is stated that such ambulatory cases occa- sionally terminate suddenly and unexpectedly in death, though I have not met witli such instances. In chronic cases of this type suppuration may be prolonged. These ambulant cases are regarded by many authorities as being a great source of danger to the community by going about with impunity spreading the disease. There is not much evidence in favour of this view. (6) Pestis Minor. — This term has been applied to a mild epidemic disease characterised by some fever and the formation of buboes, usually in the groin, which after a time resolve or suppurate. In some cases epidemics of this kind have preceded by a few months or years epidemics of true plague, such as happened in Mesopotamia (1876-77), Astrakhan (1877), Singapore and Straits Settlements, and the south coast of China (1893). Pestis minor was also reported to be present in Calcutta in 1896. Epidemics of this disease have been observed without true plague following them, and true plague epidemics are usually, as far as is known, not preceded by outbreaks of pestis minor. It is at present uncertain whether such epidemics are due to the bacillus pestis, a question which can only be cleared up by bacteriological in- vestigation. There is no doubt that there are epidemics or groups of cases of non-venereal glandular disease, but they may be due to several causes, some perhaps being due to the plague bacillus. In these glandular fevers, or so-called " climatic buboes," the glands and skin over them often break down. The term pestis minor has been misapplied to pestis am- bulans, but it is better to keep them distinct. SequelcB.—In addition to long-continued weak- ness which may follow an attack of plague, rendering mental and physical exertion an impossibility for some time, the following sequelfe may be mentioned :—Long-continued suppuration of glands, boils, and carbiincles, joint inflammations, especially the knee joints, paralysis of various kinds (face, muscles of the eye, palate, larynx, etc., hemiplegia), ataxia, mental disturbances, loss of speech, deafness in one or both ears, or the sight may be affected by intraocular changes; i.e. the commonest sequelse are nervous or suppurative. Incubative Period.—The number of cases in which the incubative period can be definitely settled is small, but such as they are seem sufficiently conclusive. The Indian Plague Commission found in 13 cases of accidental inoculation, in the course of post - mortem work, the incubative period was from one to three days, and in 16 cases in which the occa- sion of coming into contact with an infected person was known the period was from eight hours to five days; the average period in both series was under three days. This coincides with the experience of those who have been mucli engaged on plague work, the incubative period rarely exceeding five days. Perhaps cases of prolonged incubation do occur, but it is often difficult to entirely eliminate other sources of infection in such cases. For practical purposes seven days can be regarded as the outside limit in nearly all cases, and two to four days as the incubative period in the great majority of instances. Preventive measures framed on a fourteen or even twelve days' observation of " contacts" appear to impose needless restrictions. Mortality.—In many outbreaks it is impos- sible to arrive at a true mortality of the epidemic on account of the concealment of cases generally practised among native races. In some parts of India the plague mortality has been described as the difference between tlie actual mortality and the average mortality of non - epidemic years, a method which no doubt, after making certain deductions, gives a truer idea of the plague mortality than the bare record of the reported deaths from this disease. Similarly, among native races it is difficult to get an idea of the true case mor- tality of a plague epidemic, as no doubt many mild cases escape recognition and many plague deaths are ascribed to other causes. For this reason the appalling case mortality in Hong- Kong may not represent the true facts of the case, as a very large number of the cases were dead when discovered. From 1898 to the middle of 1901 the percentages of dead bodies found among the total number of cases reported were respectively 36, 40, 37*1, and 21-7 per cent. During the first three years of plague in India, from 1896 to 1899, the Indian Plague Com- mission estimate the mortality at 430,500. In some villages in Dharvvar the number of plague