200 POST-MORTEM METHODS in size, and outlined by a distinct pale or yellow zone. In fatty hypertrophic cirrhosis the organ is greatly enlarged, and may be of a canary yellow colour throughout. Waxy or Amyloid Disease. — The organ is greatly enlarged, its consistence is firm, and it preserves its shape when removed from the body. It is pale, translucent, and of a pinkish grey colour. The lobules may be outlined by a yellow zone of fatty infiltration. The edge of a section remains sharp. The lobule is greatly increased in size, measuring to J of an inch, and the intermediate zone is marked out as a distinct, greyish, translucent ring. Application of the iodine test (vid. spleen) renders the waxy change very evident. Fatty Degeneration. — The organ is smaller than normal, the capsule apparently thickened, and is wrinkled. The organ is soft, very friable, of a dull orange colour; the lobule may show a ring or spot of a yellower colour, according as the central or peripheral zone is affected. Either zone may show the change, the former quite as often as the latter. In chronic venous hypermmia the central zone of the lobule is marked out as a dark brown spot. This gives a mottled appearance, " nut- meg liver," to the organ. It is much enlarged and may be firmer than normal. The condition results from chronic valvular disease of the heart. Multilohnlar Cirrhosis.—In this condition the surface of the liver is covered with rounded pro- jections, varying in diameter about from one- twentieth of an inch to about one-fifth of an inch. Separating them is a network of shallow grooves, caused by indrawing of the capsule by scar tissue formed along the portal vessels. On section a similar network is seen of pinkish grey colour separating opaque orange coloured islets of liver tissue. The organ is usually diminished in size, but may not weigh less than normal. The condition gives rise to ascites and chronic venous hypersemia in the portal venous system. Monolohular Cirrhosis.—The organ is usually increased in size, the capsule smooth or only slightly wrinkled, and the newly formed fibrous tissue is made out with difficulty, as the net- work it forms is finer, enveloping individual lobules. In acquired syphilis gummata may form in the liver. Congenital syphilis is associated with a diffuse fibrosis of the liver. In acute yellow atrophy the organ is much lessened in size and flabby, the capsule being wrinkled. On section it shows alternating yellow and rusty red patches. Suppuration.—Tropical abscesses are usually single and of large size, and the liver substance shows degenerative changes. Abscesses from other causes are usually small and multiple ; they may be part of a general pyaemia, of a pyaemia confined to the portal system, or may result from a suppurative in- flammation of the bile-ducts {cholangitis). Tuberculosis. — Miliary tubercles occur as minute grey points best seen under the capsule. Caseous tubercle occurs as small yellow points or larger bile-stained softening areas. Parasites.—The most common parasite is the cystic stage of the Taenia echinococcus—the "hydatid cyst." The cyst wall is formed of thin laminae, of a material resembling the boiled white of a duck's egg. It is smooth and glistening on its outer surface, but granular on its inner surface. It usually contains secondary cysts. In one variety the secondary cysts form in the tissue round the primary cyst, producing the "multi- locular" hydatid. The important nexo-growths are malignant, and may be primary or secondary. The former may be single, the latter are practically always multiple. They may be of the nature of cancers —hard, soft, or tubular, non-pigmented or pig- mented, or they may be sarcomata. In Imrd (scirrhus) cancer the nodules are usually of firm consistence, and have a sharp outline. They tend to retract rather than degenerate towards their centre, so that an appearance of hollowing or " umbilication " may be produced on the surface. This is, however, by no means confined to the hard cancers. In the soft cancers (medullary or encephaloid) the tumour is usually rounded, soft, and spongy. It tends to degenerate early in its centre. In tubular cancer (malignant adenoma) the nodules are usually numerous, rather irregular in outline, on the surface showing more variega- tion of colour than the others, for example, pink, yellow, and creamy areas. In this variety, especially, the liver is greatly increased in size. The sarcomata are usually secondary, may be cerebriform in appearance and consistence — round-celled sarcoma—or firmer and fasciculated —spindle-celled sarcoma. The pigmented (melanotic) tumours are neces- sarily secondary, and are readily distinguished by their sepia coloration. If the primary tumour be discernible, this will settle their epi- thelial or connective tissue origin. Usually, however, microscopic examination is necessary. Resume The liver is diminished in size in— Fatty degeneration, simple atrophy, acute yellow atrophy, late multilobular cirrhosis, and often in cancer of the pyloric end of the stomach. It is increased in size in— Cloudy swelling (slightly); fatty infiltration, unilobular cirrhosis especially with fatty change; waxy disease ; chronic venous congestion; cancer; occasionally in early multilobular cir- rhosis and in obstruction of common bile-duct. It is also enlarged, but irregularly, in abscess formation, and in presence of hydatid cysts.