PUERPERIUM, PATHOLOGY OF .370 2. Areola— (a) Eczema 371 (6) Cellulitis, Adenitis, and Abscess . 372 (c) Anomalies ..... 372 3. Mamma— (a) Mastitis ..... 372 (6) Abscess 373 (c) Milk Nodes . . .373 {d) Galactocele . . . .373 (e) Fistuloi 373 (/) Anomalies ..... 373 {g) Erysipelas, Tubercle, etc. . . 373 4. Conditions interfering with Suck- ling— (a) Artificial Arrest of Lactation . 373 (b) Abnormalities of Human Milk . 373 1. Nipples (a) Sore Nipples.—Under this term several diseased conditions of the nipple arising during lactation are included, which are of great clinical importance owing to the relation they bear to mastitis and mammary abscess. The commonest condition met with is a simple abrasion of the nipple, the result of a loss of epithelium. The first stage of abrasion is a simple erythema. The epithelium is next denuded at several points, leaving the subjacent papillae unprotected, and if this condition is allowed to go on a fissure of the nipple results. The denuded areas which follow on a simple erythema are usually at the apex of the nipple, and next most frequently at the sides and base. Basal fissures may extend so deeply, from re- peated attempts at nursing, that the nipple may be entirely severed, or left attached merely by a few lactiferous ducts. The predisposing causes of sore nipples are :— shortness of the nipple, undue thinness of the epithelium, and prominent papillae with deep intervening sulci, which tend to imprison shed epithelium and drops of milk ; these combining to form a crust, the non-removal of which favours atrophy of the underlying epithelium. Neglect and want of cleanliness during preg- nancy, and pressure of tight corsets, which may prevent the development of the nipple, are important etiological factors. The direct cause is injury set up by the gums and tongue of the infant during suckling. This is most apt to occur if suckling be delayed until the breasts are engorged, if the entire nipple be not taken into the child's mouth, or if the nipple is not properly developed, or is depressed. The unprotected papillae bathed in milk and blood form an excellent nidus for the culture and growth of micro-organisms. Bacterial in- fection may result from the fingers of the nurse or mother, from the child's mouth, or from soiled clothes, and thus what was originally a simple irritation is converted into a septic wound. Bacilli and cocci, including the staphy- lococcus aureus and albus, have been found by Bumm in fissures of the nipple. The oidium albicans in cases of thrush, and micro-organisms, may be transmitted directly from the mouth of the child, and it is possible that some forms of stomatitis in the child may be caused by micro- organisms present in the fissured nipple. Fissured nipples are more common in primiparae, and in women with delicate skins, especially blondes. Abnormal states of the mother's milk may also predispose to fissure of the nipple, or aggravate an already existing fissure. Symptoms usually begin from the third to the fifth day. Excruciating pain is complained of when the child is put to the breast. The temperature may rise to 104° F., either as a result of septic absorption or from the deep impression made on the nervous system by the intense pain. The nervous apprehension of the pain may even cause convulsions to supervene, and may seriously interfere with the patient's general health. Treatment. ■— Prophylactic treatment should begin during the last two or three months of pregnancy, when special attention should be directed to the avoidance of pressure by corsets. The nipples should be washed night and morning with soap and cold water, and then bathed with some astringent or spirituous fluid, such as solution of alum, tincture of quinine or arnica, brandy, whisky, or eau-de- Cologne. Small depressed nipples should be gently pulled out daily with the finger and thumb, which serves to stimulate and bring into action the muscular fibres. Inunction with lanoline or simple ointment facilitates the pulling out of the nipple. Care should be taken not to over-manipulate the nipple late in pregnancy, as uterine contractions may thus be set up. Depressed or invaginated nipples may be pulled out by means of the breast-pump, or oral suction by another healthy woman, or by the mouth of a bottle just emptied of hot water. Strips of adhesive plaster may then be carefully and judiciously applied to retain the nipple in its normal position (Henry Davies). In severe cases, Kehrer's operation of mammillaplasty may be performed. Attention should be paid to the cleanliness of the nipple and of the child's mouth from the beginning of lactation. The child's mouth should be washed at least once daily with a saturated solution of boracic acid. Before and after each act of suckling the breasts should be washed with boric solution, or 1 in 2000 corr. sublim., and thoroughly dried. If the nipples are carefully dried the child will only absorb an infinitesimal quantity of mercury. 1 If any erythema is present a ' The child should not be put to the breast too frei|uently, and each nursing should be limited to fifteen minutes at longest.