OPTIC NERVE 513 RETINA AND peculiarly prone to suffer in affections of the central nervous system, in some forms of poison- ing, and in certain general disorders. Inflam- mation of an acute or chronic character may attack it at any point in its course, may affect its whole thickness or only a part of it, and may or may not lead to permanent atrophy, total or partial. Again, without recognised inflam- mation, the nerve may undergo degenerative changes resulting in a simple atrophy. Occa- sionally the occurrence of an inflammation or simple atrophy of the nerve is intelligible enough, as, e.g., an optic neuritis in association with orbital cellulitis, or a simple atrophy sub- sequent to division of the nerve-trunk. Fre- quently, however, the pathological process is difiicult to trace, and our knowledge still rests largely on hypothesis. It is impossible in the space at our disposal, and would be of doubtful benefit, to enter into discussions as to the causal relation between optic neuritis and intracranial disease, etc. ; but the following facts should be remembered in connection with the exceptional vulnerability of this nerve :— 1. From its development and structure the optic nerve is to be regarded as part of the central nervous system. This serves to explain its liability to degenera- tive changes, similar to those occurring in certain strands and fibres in the brain and spinal cord, in post-tertiary syphilis (tabetic atrophy), and to those occurring irregularly in disseminated sclerosis; and probably, also, this similarity of nerve-tissue is responsible for the occasional association of optic neuritis with acute myelitis, due presumably to the selective action of some toxine on these parts of the central nervous system. 2. The sheaths of the nerve are direct prolonga- tions of the cerebral meninges. We thus have the liability to a direct trans- mission of inflammation of the meninges along the nerve-sheaths to the fibrous framework of the nerve itself, which latter may be thus attacked in any part of its course, but particu- larly at the lamina cribrosa and at the entrance of the blood-vessels. 3. The intervaginal spaces of the nerve are continuous with the meningeal cavities of the brain. In as far as these intervaginal spaces are also connected with each other, and with the lymphatic spaces surrounding the nerve-fibre bundles, it is obvious that fluid circulating in the lymphatic system of the nerve may contain inflammatory material primarily derived from within the cranium. Again, serous fluid or blood effused into the meningeal cavities may find its way into the sheath-spaces and injure the nerve by direct pressure. 4. The absence of primitive sheath probably renders the nerve-fibres more vulnerable in the VOL. VIII retro-ocular portion; v)hile, in the intraocular part of the nerve, the naked axis-cylinders are directly exposed to the action of the surrounding fluid. 5. It must he borne in mind that we can detect inflammatory and atrophic changes in this nerve such as might readily escape notice in other cranial nerves. Of less exceptional significance, but still im- portant in considering the great vulnerability of the optic nerve, we would also mention:— 6. Their position, relation, and long course along the base of the brain render the nerves, commissure, and tracts liable to be affected in inflammation of the basal membranes, and to be damaged locally by pressure from new growths or from a distended third ventricle. 7. After entering the optic canal the nerve has for the rest of its course all the exposures of a peripheral nerve. 8. The narrowness of the optic canal must cause further constriction in an already existent oedema; and the disposition of the lamina cribrosa and of the nerve-sheaths where pierced by the central vessels will promote a similar effect by pressure on the blood-vessels and lymphatics. Inflammation op the Optic Nerve.—The expression " optic neuritis " is the generic term for inflammation of any part of the optic nerve. When the intraocular end of the nerve or papilla is inflamed, the condition is called "papillitis"; while "retro-ocular neuritis" implies inflammation of the nerve behind the eyeball, without implication (at first at least) of the papilla. The terms "axial neuritis" and " perineuritis " are used to denote the parts of the nerve involved, such as would be seen as presented on cross section. As a rule both nerves are affected, and simi- larly, though not necessarily to the same degree, nor exactly at the same time. Uni- lateral optic neuritis is generally dependent on a local cause, such, e.g., as orbital cellulitis; but it may also occur in association with intra- cranial lesion. Symptoms.—Optic neuritis may exist with- out there being any subjective symptoms directly indicating its presence—ocular pain, photophobia, and impairment of vision being alike absent. Photophobia, indeed, is rarely found as an accompaniment, and is never a prominent feature. Deep-seated pain in the orbit, and tenderness on pressure over the globe or on eye movement, are practically present only when the nerve is involved in an in- flammatory condition affecting the orbital tissue surrounding the nerve. Vision may remain perfect for some time; indeed, in exceptional cases, papillitis from intracranial disease (gumma, for example) may occur, remain for some weeks, and disappear again, without sight ever being impaired.