534 RETINOSCOPY which corrects the shadow leaves a myopia of ID, but if the observer sits at 4 metres (the position of the far point of an eye of 0-25 of myopia), the lens which corrects the shadow will leave only 0'25D of myopia; similarly, when the observer sits at half a metre, the glass which corrects the shadow will leave 2D of myopia. The position of 1 metre is chosen for convenience, since glasses can easily be changed without the observer rising from his chair. The nearer the position chosen by the observer the greater is the error caused by un- intentional variation from this position. Some- times it is diihcult to be certain which lens absolutely does away with the movement of the shadow ; this may be tested by leaning forward a little, when the shadow should become "myopic," and again by moving back, when the shadow should become hypermetropic. In order to appreciate the movement of the light ai'ea it is by no means necessary that the rays from this area be focussed on the observer's retina ; indeed there is a considerable range in the position of the far point, both in front of and behind the observer's nodal point, in which it is quite impossible for a sharp image of the light area to be formed on the observer's retina, yet the movement of the light is always easily seen except at one point—the point of i-eversal. Since the point of reversal depends upon the coincidence of the far point of the observed eye and the observer's nodal point, it is clear that, provided, the distance of his nodal 2'>oint remain constant, the same glass will be found to correct the movement of the light and shadow whether the observer be E, H, or M, and if ametropic, whether he wear his correction or not, or again whether he uses or relaxes his accommodation. The brightness of the light area on the patient's retina, and the sharpness of the shadow, will depend chiefly upon the accuracy with which the light is focussed on the retina. When, therefore, the immediate source of light corre- sponds with the far point of the eye, the light area will be at its brightest, and the shadow most distinct. The brightness of the light area and the sharp- ness of the shadow, as it ap2}ears to the observer, will depend upon the actual brightness of the light area, and also upon the degree of magnifi- cation. The magnification of the retina varies with the distance fi'om which it is viewed. The farther the observer's eye from the point of reversal, the less the magnification ; the nearer the point of reversal, the greater the magnifi- cation, \mtil at the point of reversal the magni- fication is at the maximum. This can easily be shown by looking at an object through a convex lens ; when the lens is held close to the object the magnification is low ; increase the distance and the magnification is raised, till at last one point only of the object is seen highly magnified. By removing the lens still farther a magnified reversed image is seen, which becomes smaller as the distance is still more increased. On the degree of magnification depends also (a) the 7-ate of movement of the light area and shadow (the rate of movement of the mirror remaining constant), and {b) the shape of the shadow. With low magnification the shadow appears to move sloivly, and a larger portion of the edge of the light area being seen, the shadow appears curved. With high magnification the shadow seems to move/aster, and as only a small portion of the edge of the light area is seen, much increased in size, the shadow appears straight. Hence in high degrees of uncorrected H and M, where the magnification is low the light area appears dull, the shadow is curved and moves slowly. As the point of reversal is approached the magnification increases, and the light area appears brighter, the shadow moves faster and has a straight edge. Regular Astigmatism.—In regular astigma- tism the refractive power of two meridians at right angles to one another is different. There must be, therefore, two far points, one for each meridian. In measuring the astigmatism by retinoscopy, the refraction of each meridian must be estimated separately, and the difference between the two correcting lenses will be the measure of the astigmatism. Thus, suppose the vertical meridian be cor- rected by a lens of sph. 4- 4D, and the horizontal meridian by a lens of sph. + 6D, with the observer sitting at 1 metre from the patient; then sph. 4- 4D combined with cyl. + 2D axis vertical will give the patient 1D of myopia; the true correction, therefore, of his refraction will be sph. + 3D cyl. + 2D axis vertical. Again, suppose the vertical meridian be cor- rected by sph. -fl'5D, and the horizontal by sph. -0-5D, then either sph. -1-0-5D cyl. - 2D axis vertical or sph. - 1 "SD cyl. + 2D axis hori- zontal will give the true correction. N.B.— The cylinder must be placed with its axis at right angles to the meridian which it is to correct; it does not affect the meridian corre- sponding with its axis. When the point of reversal for one of the meridians is nearly reached, it will be noticed that the light area has a band-like appearance, and that the direction of the band remains constant whatever the movement of the mirror may be. The axis of the band indicates the axis of that meridian ; which observation is of great practical use when ordering glasses for children, with whom the suggestive test is unreliable. The reason for this band-like appearance is that the light area is magnified to the maximum by the meridian at whose point of reversal the observer's eye is, and therefore