PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 42 7,500 cc 300 1,500 cc 2,000 cc ' Capacity Via. 146.—Tlie amount of air respired in ordinary respiration, and in forced inspira- tion and expiration. inspirations which serve to accelerate the circu- lation of the blood when, from any cause, it becomes less active (see p. 38). They are probably due to cerebral ansemia, which they help to correct by increasing the general arterial pressure. II. Amount of Air respired.—The amount of air respired is different in ordinary and in forced respiration. In an ordinary respiration about 300 c.cms. of air enter and leave the chest. That is called the tidal air. Its amount varies with the size and muscular development of the chest. By a forced inspiration a much larger quantity of air may be made to pass into the lungs — a quantity varying with the size and strength of the individual—but on an average about 1500 c.cms. This is called the comple- mental air. Bj' forced expiration an amount of air much larger than the tidal can be expelled, an amount usually about the same as the complemental air, and called the reserve air. The total amount of air which an individual can draw into and drive out of his lungs is a fair measure of the size and muscular develop- ment of the thorax, and it has been called the vital capacity of the thorax. This vital capacity may be measured by means of a spirometer. Its amount, as thus indicated, depends a good deal upon practice; the instrument, therefore, can- not be considered as of much practical value, and a more reliable conclusion as to the vital capacity may be arrived at by measuring the circumference of the chest in expiration and in inspiration. Even after the whole of the reserve air has been driven out of the chest, a considerable quantity still remains in the air vesicles, its amount depending upon the size of the chest, but averaging about 2000 c.cms. This is called the residual air. This very important point must always be remembered, that the air taken into the chest never fills the air vesicles, and that air is never driven completely out of them. The air in them is thus not changed hy the movements of respira- tion, hut hy the process of diffusion. III. Intercha7ige of Air in the Lungs hy Diffu- sion of Gases.—It has been shown that only the air in the trachea and bronchi undergoes ex- change in mass, but that the air of the vesicles is not driven out of the chest. The renewal of this air depends upon the diffusion of gases. If two gases are brought into relationship with one another they diffuse and tend to form a mixture uniform throughout. But if, at Fig. 147.—Shows the course of diffusion of oxy- gen into, and of carbon dioxide out of, the air vesicles. one point of a system, one gas is constantly being taken away and another constantly added, there will be a constant diffusion of the former tovjards the part where it is being taken up, and a constant diffusion of the latter aiuay from the point to which it is being added. Suppose a tube (Fig. 147) containing oxygen and carbon dioxide, and suppose that at one end of the tube oxygen is con- stantly being taken up and carbon dioxide constantly given off, a diffusion of the gases in the direc- tion indicated by the arrows will continually go on, and thus a con- stant supply of oxygen will be conveyed to the bottom of the tube, while carbonic acid will con- stantly be cleared out. This is exactly the condition in the lungs. The lower part of the tube corresponds to the air vesicles— the upper part to the air-passage in which the air is constantly being exchanged by the move- ment of respiration. The mechanism by which the gaseous exchange in the alveoli is carried out is thus a double one. IV. Breath Sounds.—The air as it passes into and out of the lungs produces sounds, which may be heard on listening over the thorax. The character of the breath sounds is of the utmost importance in the diagnosis of diseases of the lungs, and must be studied practically. On listening over the trachea or over the bifurcation of the bronchi behind (between the 4th and 5th dorsal vertebrte), a harsh sound, something like the guttural ch (German ich), may be heard with inspiration and expiration. This is called the bronchial sound. If the ear be applied over a spot under which a mass of air vesicles lies, a soft sound, some- what resembling the sound of gentle wind among leaves, may be heard throughout inspiration, and for a third or less of expiration. This is called the vesicular sound. When the air vesicles become consolidated by disease, the vesicular sound is lost and the bronchial sound takes its place. The cause of the vesicular character is therefore to be sought in the vesicles, infundibula, or small bronchi. The cause of the bronchial sound has been determined by experiments on horses. In the study of the cardiac circulation it was shown that a column of fluid—and the same is true of a column of air—moving along a tube of uniform calibre, or with the calibre only slowly changing, produces no sound. Any sudden alteration in calibre produces vibration and a musical sound, as explained on p. 20. The first sharp con- striction of the respiratory tract is at the glottis, and it is here that the bronchial sound is pro- duced. If the trachea is cut below the larynx