474 RAYNAUD'S DISEASE lower limbs, in which pains and parsesthesia come on in the legs on walking and pass off with rest. It is distinguished by the feebleness or absence of pulsation in the accessible arteries of the foot, and by the absence of the redness of erythromelalgia. Prognosis and Treatment. — The disease, though chronic, is not of itself fatal. It may reach a certain degree of intensity and then become stationary; more often it is gradu- ally progressive in intensity and distribution. The treatment during a paroxysm consists in elevating the limb to a horizontal posture, the avoidance of movement, and the local application of cold. Faradism in a few cases has been beneficial. In one case observed by the writer, a galvanic current, with the positive pole applied to the painful area, promptly relieved the pain. Drugs are of minor importance, though phenazone, acetanilide, iodide of potassium, etc., have all been suggested. Morphia is a dernier ressort, and not rashly to be recommended. Operations on the peripheral nerves have been unsatisfactory, producing at the best only temporary relief, and in one case having been followed by gangrene. Ra.ys. See Beta Rays ; Blondlot Rays ; Radium ; X-Rays ; etc. Rciy'S Mania,.—General moral insanity, in which morbid changes in the cortex cerebri are found. Reaction, Bordet's.—The biological test of blood, which may be thus defined : " The fact that the blood-serum of an animal into which has been injected the blood of another animal of different species develops the property of agglutinating and dissolving erythrocytes similar to those injected, but has no such effect upon blood derived from another source" (Da Costa). Reaction, Lowenthai's.—A blood test for detecting relapsing fever in the stage preceding the appearance of spirilla in the blood ; it consists in the mixing of the blood of a sus- pected case with that of a case in which spirilla are present and motile, when, if the suspected case be one of relapsing fever, the spirilla will become motionless and collect in masses. Reaction of Deg^eneration. See Physiology, Tissues {Muscle, Electrotonus); Electricity {Galvanism, Reaction of De- generation). Reaction, PfeifFer's.—The fact that the vibrios of Asiatic cholera when injected into an immunised animal lose their motility, break up, and dissolve; Pfeiffer's reaction was the foundation of Widal's test. Reaction, Widal's. See Typhoid Fever {Pathology, Serum Diagnosis). Reading". See Blindness {Education of the Blind). Ready iVIetllOd.— Marshall Hall's method of artificial respiration. See Asphyxia {Resuscitation). Rdcamier'S Curette. See Curettage {History). ReceptaCUium.—A receptacle, such as the receptaculum chyli (dilated commencement of the thoracic duct), etc. See Physiology, Food AND Digestion {Absorption of Food, Channels). Receptors. See Physiology, Neuro- muscular Mechanism {Neural Arcs, Receptor Mechanisms). See also Immunity, Recent Views ON {EhrlicKs Side-Chain Theory). ReceSSUS.—A recess or depression, such as the recessus duodena-jejunalis, the recessus epitympanicus, the recessus pharyngeus, etc. Recklinghausen's Disease. — The association of multiple fibromata, neuro- fibromata, and pigmentation of the skin. See Tumours of the Skin {Melanotic Sarcoma). Reek's Disinfector.—A method of disinfection by the use of steam. Rec I i n at ion. See Cataract (Treatment, Operatio7is). Reclus'S Diseiase.—Cystic disease or chronic cystic inflammation of the breast. See Mammary Gland, Diseases of {Chronic Mastitis). Recognition. See Memory in Health and Disease {Recognition). Recollection. See Physiology, Cere- brum {Physiology of Memory). Rectal.—Relating to the rectum. See Rectum and Cross References. Rectification.—Straightening a part, e.g. a deformed limb, or altering a presentation in obstetrics, e.g. a face case. See Labour, Management of {Face Presentations). Rectified Spirit. ^SeeAlcohol(»S>rife). RectitiS. — Inflammation of the rectum; proctitis. See Dysentery {Diagnosis); Enemata {Ga7igrenous Rectitis); Rectum, Diseases of. Recto-.—In compound words recto- (Lat. rectus, straight) means relating to the rectum; e.g. recto-abdominal examination (palpation of the pelvic organs by means of a finger in the rectum and a hand over the abdomen), recto- colitis (inflammation of the rectum and colon), recto-cystotomy (incision of the bladder carried out through the rectum), rectoscope (a rectal speculum), and recto-vesical (relating to the rectum and the bladder).