RETINOSCOPY 535 to a much greater degree than by the opposite meridian. The hght area is thus drawn out, as it were, and appears as a narrow band of light with a straight shadow on either side. Double Shadoivs.—It is commonly found that a given lens will correct the shadow in the periphery, while there still remains an un- corrected shadow in the centre of the pupil, or vice versa. That is to say, the centre of the pupil appears as it were more hypermetropic or more myopic than the periphery. Of the two conditions the former is more common, and is due to the spherical aberration of the refractive media. In common with all spherical lenses, the periphery is more refractive than the central part, hence the centre may appear hypermetropic, while a myopic shadow is seen in the periphery. In these cases ahvays correct for the movement of the brightest part of the central light a7-ea,^ since it is through the centre of the pupil that the patient looks. In conical cornea, lenticonous, and other allied conditions, the central shadow appears myopic, while the periphery appears hyper- metropic ; here again, as a rule, the movement of the central light area is the one to be corrected. In irregular astigmatism a variety of conflict- ing shadows is often found; and though in some cases retinoscopy may lead to a right estimation, in others the subjective method of trial with lenses must be resorted to. Mydriatics.—In order to obtain the most accurate estimation of the refraction by retino- scopy, the accommodation of the patient must be completely at rest, and he should look at the hole in the mirror in order that the light may play over the macular region. This is the part of the retina for which the correction is needed, and the refraction of the macula may be different from that at other parts of the fundus. Atropia undoubtedly gives the most complete relaxation of the accommodation, but the effects last for about ten days, and in elderly people the danger of inducing glaucoma must never be forgotten. For children with active accommodation, and to whom time is as a rule of no object, a 1 per cent solution of atropin may be used three times a day for three days previous to examina- tion. If atropin be contraindicated, homatropin and cocain may be used in—(i.) Discs containing gr. Jg- of each; or (ii.) A 2 per cent solution of each in castor oil {N.B.—One application only should be made, and only a very small quantity 1 Throughout this article the movement of the light area with its attendant has been described for the sake of clearness as the object for observation. The writer would strongly urge the advisability of watching the movement of the brightest part of the illuminated area, seen about the centre of the pupil; as the shadow is at times very indefinite, while the movement of the light area may be quite distinct, and this is especially seen in the above- mentioned cases with double shadows. should be applied, and this should be spread over the cornea by means of the upper lid ; an ordinary-sized drop causes a disturbing film over the cornea); (iii.) Many prefer a 2 per cent watery solution instilled four times at intervals of ten minutes. (Occasionally the cocain causes a I'oughening of the corneal epithelium. To avoid this it has been recommended to use the H. and C. solution the first and fourth time, and a 2 per cent solution of homatropin alone for the second and third installation.) In whichever form the H. and C. be applied, the full effect is gained in about forty minutes. The effect passes off in about twenty-four hours, but if after examination a drop of a 1 per cent solution of eserin be instilled the mydriasis passes off in less than an hour. In elderly people with very small pupils, whose accom- modative power is slight, sufficient dilatation of the pupil may be gained safely with a 2 per cent solution of cocain, or one application of H. and C, followed by a drop of 1 per cent solu- tion of eserin. It is well before ordering glasses to test the patient again with the trial lenses, after the effect of the mydriatic has passed off, except in the case of children. Some deduction has, as a rule, to be made from the spherical lens (not the cylinder), which gives the full correction under the mydriatic. In children ID may be deducted from the full atropin correction, except in the case of con- vergent strabismus, when only 0'5D should be deducted. Adults vary considerably ; some will accept their full correction, others require even ID to be deducted. Where it is impossible to test a second time, it is usually safe to deduct 0'75D or ID atropin, as in children, and 0'5 for homatropin and cocain. (For special correction of myopia, see article on " Myopia.") Retinoscopy without a Mydriatic.—In adults mydriatics may be undesirable for one reason or another, and in many cases retinoscopy with- out their use, combined with a careful subjective test, will give excellent results. Certain points, however, need specially to be considered. If a patient, not under the influence of a mydriatic, look straight at the sight-hole of the mirror two difficulties at once arise: firstly, he will use his accommodation; and, secondly, his pupil will become so small that the movement of the shadow can hardly be distinguished. The patient should therefore relax his accommoda- tion by looking to the other end of the dark room past the observer's right ear, when his right eye is being examined, and past the ob- server's left ear when the left eye is under ex- amination ; the observer meanwhile must use his right eye when examining the patient's right eye, and his left for the patient's left eye. In this position the light is thrown by the mirror on the optic disc—the least sensitive part of the fundus—and the pupil therefore does not con-