451 PYURIA involves the pelvis, and has spread rapidly from it to the kidney tissue, the urine, although purulent, remains acid for some time, and is less abundant than normal. The urine may, however, present the characters indicative of chronic Bright's disease, namely, polyuria and albuminuria, with diminution in the quantity of urea and the presence of tube casts. Pyelonephritis is usually the result of an unhealthy state of the bladder. Consequently in that disease the urine, although it may be acid when it escapes from the ureter, becoming mixed with the contents of the bladder decom- poses, is passed alkaline, has an offensive odour, and contains a large quantity of mucus, epi- thelium, pus, and triple phosphates. When there are no acute or chronic organic changes in the kidney, the quantity of albumin is regu- lated by the amount of pus or blood ; but, as not infrequently chronic Bright's disease also exists, there is an albuminuria independent of these constituents, so that no proportionate relationship exists between the amount of pus or blood and the quantity of albumin. The diagnosis of pyelonephritis from sup- purative nephritis must rest largely upon a careful consideration of the etiological facts of the case. The constitutional symptoms of the two diseases are practically the same. In the former, however, pyuria precedes, in the latter it succeeds the other symptoms. If the abscess in the kidney ruptures externally, or forms a perinephritic abscess throughout the course of the case, pus may not appear in the urine; but should the abscess attain a considerable size, and rupture into the pelvis, ureter, or bladder, the sudden appearance of a large quantity of pus in the urine may clear up the diagnosis. In pyonephrosis there is evidence both of suppuration and of obstruction. In some cases suppuration precedes the obstruction ; in others, the opposite sequence of events occurs, as when a hydronephrosis becomes inflamed, while in a third class the two conditions develop ^aWjoassw. In pyonephrosis there is a characteristic renal swelling, elastic, fluctuant, and varying in size from time to time, much in the same way as in hydronephrosis. Together with these symp- toms there is a discharge of pus in the urine, or evidence of its retention, manifested by increase in the renal swelling, and more severe pain in the lumbar region, which is aggravated by pressure in front, but relieved by pressure from behind. There may be also symptoms of a more urgent nature, indicative of systemic poisoning, either from non-elimination of the urinary constituents or from absorption of in- fective material. In pyonephrosis the quantity of pus in the urine varies from day to day, according to the posture the patient occupies and to the nature of the obstruction. The changes in the condi- tion of the urine are determined by the same cir- cumstances as those noticed in cases of pyelitis and pyelonephritis. In cystic disease the urine has the char- acters of chronic interstitial nephritis; it is pale, copious, of low specific gravity, and may contain coarse granular tube casts. There may be copious hfematuria, and should the cysts suppurate or pyelitis be established, pus may escape through the bladder, and in hydatid cysts of the kidney echinococci or booklets may appear in the urine. In tubercular disease the urine furnishes important information, and in all cases the urine should be carefully examined prior to the employment of instruments to explore the bladder or ureters. Although tuberculous bacilli are classified as non-pyogenic, and properly so, in many cases of tuberculous dis- ease before mixed infection has occurred large numbers of leucocytes not distinguishable by the microscope from pus may be found. In pure tuberculous disease the urine is acid and free from pyogenic microbes. For diagnostic purposes it is therefore necessary to draw off, through a sterilised catheter, a quantity of urine and to make cultures. The presence of pyo- genic micro-organisms does not exclude the possibility of the disease being tuberculous, but their absence greatly strengthens the presumption. As the disease advances the odour of the urine as a rule becomes more and more often- sive; the fluid deposits large quantities of mucus and triple phosphates, and on examina- tion it is found to be highly albuminous. Occasionally, while the urine is pale and of low specific gravity, there may be evidence of retention on the diseased side, as shown by increase in the renal swelling, with perhaps indistinct fluctuation and pain, accompanied by general constitutional disturbance, or there may be complete suppression, death being ushered in by urgemic symptoms. In addition to the diagnostic points already indicated, the detection of the tubercle bacillus in the urinary debris is of great value. It is when tuberculous lesions begin to break down that tubercle bacilli are most abundant, and sometimes their number is very large. Several examinations are required before it can be con- cluded from negative results that the case is not tuberculous. Besides the detection of the tubercle bacillus it is necessary to determine whether the disease is on one or on both sides. Several times the writer has had occasion to examine by ureteral catheterisation cases of tuberculous pyelitis in which it was considered of importance to determine the extent to which the disease had involved one or both kidneys. Catheterisation can only determine the organ to which the tuberculous disease is limited; it cannot indi- cate the extent of the tuberculous lesion in the