RHEUMATISM, CHRONIC 580 acute rheumatism is of bacterial origin, but do not admit a final statement being made as to the single nature of the micro-organism. A good deal can be said in favour of Singer's view (p. 539) as to rheumatic fever being an attenu- ated pypemia, and it is possible that the various subacute and chronic manifestations are sus- ceptible of a similar explanation. Certain known facts lend some support to this opinion. Thus we find that Alexis Thomson, in the article on Diseases of Bone in vol. i. p. 426, writes as follows :— " The marrow, especially in the interior of long bones during the period of active growth, is known to be one of the most favourable of soils for the lodgment of bacteria. The latter may persist in a condition of potential vitality for indefinite periods long after they have disappeared from the circulatory blood from Avhich they were derived. The determination of disease in the bone resulting from bacterial lodgment in the marrow will depend, both as to time of onset, severity, and extent, on the initial virulence and number of the organ- isms, and upon the resistance of the tissues of the individual concerned, and upon the assistance of certain external conditions, e.g. trauma, strain, exposure, and cold, which will act also as localising factors in determining the seat and gravity of the disease." The same authority also refers to an attenuated form of staphylococcus osteo-myelitis, or growth fever (vol. i. p. 437), regarded by some as the explanation of " growing pains" in children and adolescents, and points out that definite changes have been found in the marrow in this disease. The varying sites of incidence in the muscles, joints, heart, etc.—the diff'erent degrees of severity of the local manifestations — the presence or absence of febrile, and other general constitutional phenomena,—are probably all susceptible of explanation if we keep clearly in view the fact that no two people react alike to the same toxic agent. A study of the individual factor in disease is of paramount importance. And we must further keep in mind that the age of the patient probably influences that reaction materially, the tissues in childhood and early life reacting more strongly than ' at a later period. There is one point in the bacteriological aspect of the question that calls for reference. Investigations on the bacteriology of chronic rheumatoid arthritis have given uniform results only, in so far that great difficulty has been experienced in reproducing the disease in lower animals. In this connection we must bear in mind the chronicity of the disease, and the possibility of attenuation of the bacteria at the diseased foci. The writer has lately examined the tissues of a horse seventeen years old, which had led a fairly active life for twelve years, during which time there had existed a small sinus in the groin, the result of sepsis at castration. Post- mortem examination showed widespread gross and microscopic lesions—the lesions in the kidney being very characteristic of a chronic pyfemia; but inoculation experiments carried out by an expert have not been successful in inducing any pathological lesions in lower animals, a fact which may be due to attenuation of the bacteria. This point is mentioned as worthy of consideration in connection with experimental research on chronic diseases in man. With regard to the general causes of chronic rheumatism we need only refer to such condi- tions as exposure and cold, damp, the influence of a soil with a low-level water, and exposure to other infections, e.g. influenza. All of these are of a nature favouring bacterial invasion. Treatment.—Prophylactic.—As the poison of rheumatism in its various subacute and chronic forms is one which specially selects the muscles and the soft and bony tissues entering into joint formations, the leading indication is to keep the tone of these structures, and especially the muscles, in as good a condition as possible. This sounds a truism, but as such it merits more attention than it generally receives. More attention to systematic physical education of youth is the basis of a rational prophylactic treatment. The value of this line of treatment is one which is readily demonstrable. There are many people who consider themselves in good health although they suffer from rheu- matic pains and aches to a considerable extent. If these persons take a systematic course of exercises adapted to accelerate the circulation, and otherwise improve the tone of the muscles and nerves involved, in a very short time they will experience very marked relief from these manipulations—the permanence of the benefit being directly proportionate to the duration of the treatment. This principle of prophylaxis is well illustrated in many Continental health resorts where the English and other visitors take a course of treatment in one of the Zandar institutes. This excellent plan could sometimes be followed by better results if the course were taken in a less haphazard fashion than is often done. Curative.—For the curative treatment it is more advisable to lay stress on the principles which must guide us rather than on the means by which they are to be given eff'ect to. If there is any breach of surface, e.g. cystitis, endometritis, and the like, special attention must be directed to that, as also to the state of the gastro-intestinal tract, and we must bear in mind that a considerable amount of disease may be present in the mucous membranes with- out revealing itself by auy definite clinical symptoms. (a) Attention to the Excretory Organs.—The