454 QUARANTINE immigrants and persons of this class who are in a filthy or otherwise unwholesome condition, or where there is some doubt as to their places of destination. Bilge water can be pumped out, and the supply of drinking water changed. In actual practice the port medical officer keeps a register of ports whicli he considers as "infected." This list is revised from time to time from various official and unofficial sources. There is scope for much discretion in adding the names of ports to such list. It frequently happens that a newspaper paragraph gives the first warning of cases of disease in a foreign port. Often such rumour is followed by an official denial, and the fact is only admitted when it is impossible any longer to conceal it. This list is a confidential one for the use of the authority only, and should never be pub- lished. It, therefore, can in no way damage the interests of any port or its trade if its name be added thereto, while its inclusion may be a most valuable protective precaiition. The instructions to the boarding medical officers should be :— (i.) To visit every vessel arriving from " foreign " ports, and to examine every case of sickness reported, and all the crew w^hen any suspicion exists. (ii.) In the cases of all vessels from ports mentioned on— (a) The "infected" list, to board and medi- cally examine every person on boai'd, checking the number by means of the crew and passenger lists. (6) To obtain from the master (or surgeon if one is carried) all records of sickness during the voyage, and examine the log-book as to entries relating thereto. (c) To obtain an accurate list of all the names of those on board, their places of destin- ation, and addresses at such places of destination. (d) To forward notification of such names and addresses to the sanitary authorities con- cerned. (iii.) Where vessels are found to be " infected " as a result of such medical inspection, to serve a certificate on the master to this effect, and proceed to carry out the terms of the Local Government Board, reporting all the details to the Board. Such a system appears to combine the maxi- mum of protection with the minimum of inter- ference with trade, and it is found in practice that shipowners will do their utmost to assist the sanitary authority so long as they feel that their interests are studied as far as possible, with due regard to the protection of the public health. One other point should be insisted upon, viz. the production of a " medical history" of the voyage, giving all facts connected with the health of those on board, and enumerating all cases of sickness, however trivial. Where a surgeon is carried this is a most valuable help and assistance, and where one has to rely upon a master it will often suggest what might be otherwise overlooked. From such a one facts only are required, and not opinions, for it is obviously absurd to expect to obtain a diagnosis of disease from any but a medical man. Many of our leading shipowners have already adopted this system, and good results have been obtained, but it seems most desirable that it should be made compulsory on all. Such a system as this involves considerable expenditure, but it should be looked upon as a system of insurance, and therefore regarded as a wise and prudent outlay. The question of dealing with cholera, yellow fever, and plague must be regarded as rather a commercial than a medical one, when one considers the enormous loss to a country which ensues from the paralysis of trade which invariably follows any outbreak of these dreaded diseases. While smallpox may destroy thousands and disfigure tens of thousands without any appreciable loss to a country, the occurrence of only a dozen cases of plague may inflict a loss of millions of pounds to the trading community. Qua,rta.n.—Recurring on the fourth day ; e.ff. a form of intermittent fever in which a paroxysm occurs once in every three days, there being two days quite free from it. See Malaria (Clinical Manifestatio7is, Qiiartan). Qu£irter-Evil. See A'sthrax(Synonyms). Qua.rtipa.ra,.—A woman who has given birth four times, or one who is in her fourth pregnancy. Quassia.—Quassise Lignum is the wood of Ficrasma excelsa, a large tree of Jamaica. It contains quassin, an intensely bitter principle irritant to mucous membranes; and a volatile oil. There is no tannin present, so that quassia can be prescribed along with salts of iron. Preparations — 1. Infusum Quassiee. Dose— ^-1 3. 2. Tinctura Quassiee. Dose—5-I 5. 3. Liquor Quassife Concentratus. Dose—^-1 5. Quassia is a simple bitter tonic much used in cases of anorexia and gastric inactivity. It has been employed during convalescence from malaria, on the supposition that it possesses antiperiodic properties. It is one of the best agents to use for the destruction of thread- worms. After the bowel has been thoroughly washed out with a soap and water enema, about half a pint of the infusion is injected well into the rectum. A few such injections almost invariably kill the parasites. Quebracho. — White quebracho bark {Quebracho cortex) is the bark of one of the Apocynacese, viz. Aspidosjyerma quebracho; it con- tains several alkaloids, such as aspidospermin (Co^H^oNoOg), aspidospermatin (CjjHgjjNjOg)) and