PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 91 of urine, although the blood pressure in the kidneys is not raised. This is taken advantage of in cases of heart disease, when the secretion of urine is almost arrested from low arterial pressure, and when dropsy is rapidly advancing. Until the heart is toned up, the kidneys may be stimulated to get rid of water by means of such diuretics as caffeine. It is quite possible that under certain condi- tions the cells of the renal tubules absorb water and possibly the other constituents of the urine, but the weight of the evidence, we at present possess, is against the idea that they exercise the function to any great extent. Excretion of Urine. — 1. Passage from Kidney to Bladder.—The pressure under which the urine is secreted is sufficient to drive it along the ureters to the bladder. If these are constricted the pressure behind the constriction rises, and may distend the ureters and the pelvis of the kidney; but when it reaches about 50 mm. Hg in the dog, the secretion of urine is stopped. The muscular walls of the ureters show a rhyth- mic peristaltic contraction, which must also help the onward passage of the urine to the bladder. 2. Micturition.—As the urine accumulates in the urinary bladder the rhythmic contraction of the non-striped muscle becomes more and more powerful. These contractions are chiefly excited by the fibres of the nervi erigentes of the second and third sacral nerves, although fibres passing down from the inferior mesenteric ganglion also probably act either in exciting or inhibiting them in certain animals. The back- ward passage of the urine into the ureters is prevented by the oblique manner in which these tubes pass through the muscular coat of the bladder. The passage of urine' into the urethra is at first prevented either by the oblique manner in which the urethra leaves the bladder, or more probably by the contraction of a strong band of non-striped muscle, the sphincter trigonalis. This muscle or the striped fibres which surround the membranous part of the urethra are under the control of a centre in the lumbar enlarge- ment of the spinal cord, and the expulsion of urine must be preceded by their relaxation. In some cases of inflammation of the spinal cord the increased activity of the centre may prevent the expulsion of urine, while later in the disease, when the nerve structures have been destroyed, the urine is not retained and dribbles away on account of the absence of the tonic contraction of the muscles. The expulsion of the last drops of urine is carried out by the rhythmic contraction of the bulbo-cavernous muscle, while the peristaltic contraction of the bladder wall is assisted by the various muscles which press upon the con- tents of the abdomen and of the bladder. In man, in early life, micturition is a purely reflex act, and in the dog it is perfectly per- formed when the spinal cord is cut in the oack. As age advances the reflex mechanism comes to be more under the control of the higher centres, and the activity of the sphincters may be in- creased or abolished as circumstances indicate. C. Excretion by the Shin The skin is really a group of organs, and some of these have been already studied. (1) The protective functions of the horny layer of epidermis, with its development in hair and nail, and of the layer of subcutaneous fat, are manifest. Hair.—In man the hair has largely ceased to have the important protective function it fulfils in many of the lower animals, but the muscular mechanism by which the position of the hairs can be modified still persists. Attached to each hair follicle is a band of non-striped muscle, the arrector pili, which can erect the hair by con- tracting. These muscles are under the control of the central nervous system, and the nerve fibres have been demonstrated in the cat to take much the same course as the vaso-con- strictor fibres of somatic nerves {see p. 33). A hair after a time ceases to grow, and the lower part in the follicle is absorbed and the hair is readily detached. From the cells in the upper part of the follicle a new down-growth occurs, a papilla forms, and the hair is regenerated. In many of the lower animals this process occurs twice a year. (2) The sensory functions have been studied under the Special Senses (vol. vii. p. 527). (3) The respiratory action of the skin in mammals is of little importance. (4) The Excretory Function of the Skin.— Three sets of glands develop in the skin—sweat glands and sebaceous glands, which are common to both sexes and are constantly active—and mammary glands, which are active in the female during the period of suckling. A. Sweat Secretion — 1. Structure. — The sweat glands are simple tubular glands coiled up in the subcutaneous tissue with ducts opening on the surface of the skin. The se- creting epithelium somewhat resembles that of the convoluted tubules of the kidney. It has been calculated that a man possesses about two and a half million sweat glands, and that if spread out they would present a surface of very great extent. 2. Functions.—From these glands a consider- able amount of sweat is poured out; but to form any estimate of the daily amount is no easy matter, since it varies so greatly under different conditions. Probably about 1000 c.c. is an average amount. When poured out, sweat usually evaporates, and is then called inserisible perspiration; but when large quantities are formed, or when, from coldness of the surface, or of the air, or from the large quantity of watery vapour already in the air, evaporation