PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 31 action becomes increased and tends to raise the arterial pressure, the peripheral resistance falls and prevents any marked rise. Similarly, if the peripheral resistance is increased, the heart's action is diminished, and no rise in the pressure occurs. Under certain conditions, however, this compensatory action is not complete, and clianges in the arterial pressure are thus brought about. The volume of hlood has a comparatively small influence on the arterial pressure, because the Fig. 137.—Scheme of Erlanger's apparatus for determining the arterial blood pressure in man. a. Elastic bag for arm; 6, mercurial manometer ; c, pump ; /, glass bulb ; e, rubber ball; h, tambour with lever. veins are so large that they accommodate very varying amounts of fluid. Factors controlling Arterial Pressure.— {a) Hearfs Action.—The influence of this may be readily demonstrated by stimulating the vagus nerve while taking a tracing of the arterial pressure. The heart is inhibited, less blood is forced into the arteries, and the pressure falls (Fig 134). If, on the other hand, the accelerator nerve is stimulated, the increased heart's action drives more blood into the arteries, and the pressure rises. (5) Peripheral Resistance.—The resistance to outflow from the arteries depends upon the resistance off"ered in the small arteries, the walls of which are chiefly composed of visceral muscle fibres. When these fibres are contracted, the lumen of the vessels is small and the resistance is great. When they are relaxed, the lumen of the vessels dilates, and the resistance to out- flow is diminished. This muscular tissue of the arterioles acts as a stop-cock to the flow of blood from the arteries to the capillaries. It is of great importance— \st. In maintaining the uniform pressure in the arteries. 2nd. In regulating the flow of blood into the capillaries. During the functional activity of a part, a free supply of blood in its capillaries is required. This is brought about by a relaxation of the muscular coats of the arterioles leading to the part. When the part returns to rest, the free flow of blood is checked by the contraction of the muscular walls of the arterioles. The action of the arterioles is well seen under the influence of certain drugs (vaso-dilators and vaso-constrictors). If, while a tracing of the arterial pressure is being taken, nitrate of amyl is administered to the animal, it will be seen that the skin and mucous membranes become red and engorged with blood, while at the same time the arterial pressure falls. Nitrites cause the muscular coat of the arterioles to relax, and thus, by diminishing peripheral resistance, permit blood to flow freely from the arteries into the capillaries. Salts of barium have precisely the opposite effect, causing the skin to become pale from imperfect filling of the capillaries, and producing a marked rise in the arterial pressure. Con- traction of the muscles of the arterioles is pro- duced, and the flow of blood from arteries to capillaries is retarded. Not only is the state of the arterioles influ- enced thus by drugs, but it is also aff'ected by the internal secretions {see p. 82) from certain organs. A powerful vaso-constrictor adrenalin is produced in the medulla of the suprarenals. The condition of the arterioles may be studied in many diff'erent ways— \st. By direct observation. — 1. W^ith the naked eye. A red engorged appearance of any part of the body may be due to dilatation of the arteriole leading to it. It may, however, be due to some obstruction to the outflow of blood from the part. 2. With the microscope. In certain trans- parent structures, such as the web of the frog's foot, or the wing of the bat, or the mesentery, it is possible to measure the diameter of the arterioles by means of an eye-piece micrometer, and to study their dilatation and contraction. 2nd. The engorgement of the capillaries brovight about by dilatation of the arterioles manifests itself also in an increased size of the part. Everyone knows how on a hot day, when the arterioles of the skin are dilated, it is difficult to pull on a glove which, on a cold day, when the cutaneous arterioles are contracted, feels loose. By enclosing a part of the body in a case with rigid walls filled with fluid or with air which is connected with some form of re- cording tambour, an increase or decrease in the size of the part due to the state of its vessels may be registered. Such an instrument is called a plethysmograph. ^rd. When the arterioles to a part are dilated and the blood is flowing freely into the capil- laries, the part becomes warmer, and by fixing a thermometer to the surface, conclusions as to the condition of the arterioles may be drawn.