PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—INTRA-UTERINE DISEASES, DEATH OF FCETUS 261 there are syphilis, the exanthemata, malaria, sepsis, tubercle, and possibly rheumatism. In an earlier part of this article the question of the mode of transmission of diseases from mother to foetus was considered, and reference was also made to some of the peculiarities of the exanthemata as developed antenatally; these matters need not be returned to here. Foetal syphilis may be due to infection from a syphilitic mother through the placenta; appar- ently it may also be the result of sperm infec- tion, without the intervention of the mother. A common result of foetal syphilis is premature labour, and the pregnancy thus terminated may have been complicated with hydramnios. The infant may be dead at birth, and then shows the appearances of intra-uterine post-mortem maceration; or it may be born alive without any sign such as is usually regarded as syphilitic, but with congenital weakness, which usually proves fatal in a few days or weeks ] or, again, it may be born with the bullte of pemphigus, or the desquamation of ichthyosis, or with internal pathological changes, especially of the liver and bones, which are commonly regarded as syphilitic; or, yet again, it may show at birth malformations of various kinds, and may be even the subject of a monstrous development, circumstances which are now coming to be looked upon as the stigmata of embryonic syphilis. The placenta is often diseased, but it is difficult to be certain whether a typical syphilitic placental lesion exists ; the afterbirth is often large, friable, ansemic, and shows on section fibrous patches, along with areas which have a fatty appearance. The umbilical cord is often thicker than normal. The protean character of the phenomena of adult syphilis is amply foreshadowed in foetal syphilis. The treatment of foetal syphilis may be commenced before birth, for if the mother or the father be syphilitic it has been shown to be advisable to administer mercury to the mother during the whole term of her pregnancy; even if the mother have apparently escaped the infection the same treatment is to be pursued for the sake of the foetus, which may be syphilitic in virtue of infection conveyed direct to it through the spermatozoa of the syphilitic father. Various infectious fevers may affect the foetus in utero, and cases are on record of foetal small- pox, measles, scarlet fever, varicella, typhoid fever, erysipelas, and influenza. In most of the reported cases the mother has been also a suff"erer from the fever in question, but it does not appear to be necessary that she must always be so, for a mother rendered immune to small- pox by a previous attack or by vaccination may escape infection, while her unborn infant takes the malady and is expelled in time with the eruption or the cicatrices of variola upon him. The infection is probably always con- veyed through the placenta, and in such a fever as typhoid, where the micro-organism is known and can be recognised, bacterial investi- gations make plain the avenue of invasion of the bacilli. It is true that foetal typhoid differs in certain details, such as the rarity of the intestinal lesions typical of the adult form of the malady, but this is explicable on the general principles which govern intra-uterine infection. It has been recently shown that the blood serum of the foetus of a woman suffering from typhoid gives the Widal typhoid reaction quite distinctly. There is some evidence to prove that infectious fevers in the foetus may have effects which project themselves beyond the birth of the infant far into post-natal life; it is possible, for instance, that some of the so- called obstetric paralyses may have such an origin. This supposition is supported by an observation made by Osier, in which a pregnant woman suffering from typhoid fever died without the supervention of labour pains, and in the foetus, removed from her uterus post-mortem, a well-marked haemorrhage was discovered in the centrum ovale of the cerebrum. The blood effusion may have been due to the maternal typhoid; at the same time it may also have been syphilitic, for the woman was the subject of lues; but it certainly was not caused by compression of the foetal head, for there had not been even the commencement of labour at the time the woman died. An interesting fact has been brought out with regard to foetal measles, and probably the same is true of other foetal fevers, to wit, that the infection of the foetus and the mother would appear to V)e simultaneous, for the lesions in the foetus, when it is expelled from the uterus, show the same stage of the disease as those in the mother ; further, when intra-uterine death has occurred it would seem that at the moment of death the fever in the foetus had reached the same stage as in the mother. The number of observed cases of foetal fevers is as yet small, a circum- stance due in no small degree to the difficulty of diagnosis, for it must be remembered that the physiological erythema and desquamation of the cuticle of the skin of the new-born infant are apt to prevent the recognition of fevers having these very cutaneous alterations as their leading features. At the same time, a very considerable literature has grown up around foetal smallpox; in fact, it would seem as if all the possibilities with regard to this malady had been recorded, even to the extent that twins have been born, one of which was the subject of variola, while the other was appar- ently quite free from the infection. It may be also that, as in syphilis, so in the exanthe- mata, the incidence of the fever in the mother may determine in the foetus, not the fever itself, but general changes in nutrition leading to stimting in growth, or even to actual mal- formations ; possibly, also, as has been shown