20 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTEITION OF THE TISSUES tricuspid element may be best heard over the area of the valve, and in listening to it it is usual to go to the right extremity of the area in order, as far as possible, to eliminate the mitral sound. The best situation to select is at the junction of the fifth right costal cartilage with the sternum. Cardiac Murnmrs. — When the valves are diseased and fail to act properly, certain con- tinuous sounds called cardiac murmurs are heard. These owe their origin to the fact that, while a current of fluid passing along a tube of fairly uniform calibre is not thrown into vibrations and therefore produces no sound, when any marked alterations in the lumen of the tube occurs—either a sudden narrowing or a sudden expansion—the flow of fluid becomes vibratory, and, setting up vibrations in the solid tissues, produces a musical sound. Such changes in the calibre of the heart are produced in two ways :— \st. By a narrowing, either absolute or relative, of the orifices between the cavities— stenosis. 2nd. By a non-closure of the valves — incompetence. Stenosis.—-If one of the auriciUo-ventricular orifices is narrowed, a murmur is heard during the period at which blood normally flows through this opening. A reference to Fig. 124 at once shows that this occurs during the whole of ventricular diastole, and that the flow is most powerful during the first period of ventricular diastole and during auricular systole. If the aortic or the pulmonary valve is narrowed the murmur will be heard (Fig. 124) during ventricular systole. The narrowing need not be absolute. A dilatation of the artery will make the orifice relatively narrow, and will produce the same result. Incompetence. — If the auriculo - ventricular valves fail to close properly, then, during ven- tricular systole, blood will he driven back into the auricles, and a murmur will be heard during this period. If the aortic or pulmonary valve fails to close, the blood will regurgitate into the ventricle from the arteries during ventricular diastole, and a murmur will be heard during this period. By the position at which these murmurs are best heard the pathological condition producing them may be determined. Work op the Heart.—The heart in pumping blood through it is doing work, and the amount of work may be expressed in work units—e.g. kilogrammetres (see vol. vii. p. 511). With each beat something under 80 grms. of blood are thrown from each ventricle into the aorta and pul- monary artery. Thus the weight lifted is about 0"08 kilos. The output of blood at each beat of the heart of the dog may be measured by Roy's cardiometer, a rigid-walled air-tight case, which is placed round the heart and connected with a piston-recorder, so that the decrease in the volume of the enclosed heart due to the blood leaving it may be directly recorded by means of a lever attached to the piston (Fig. 126). The average resistance in the aorta may be taken at about 1*5 metres of blood. Hence, with each beat, the left ventricle may perform 0-08 X 1-5 = 0-12 kgms. of work. The right Fig. 126.—Roy's cardiometer to measure the output of blood from the heart. 6, Heart in cardiometer chamber; c, piston recorder worlcing on lever against rubber band, d. ventricle is only one-third as strong as the left, and hence the work done by each beat is only 0"04 kgms. If the heart is beating seventy-two times per minute, the amount of work will be something under 11-5 kgms. per minute, or 16,560 kgms. in twenty-four hours. Some investigators esti- mate it as low as 10,000 kgms. Nature of Cardiac Contraction.—The con- traction of the ventricle lasts for a considerable period—0'3 seconds. Is it of the nature of a single contraction, or of a tetanus ? It is impossible to tetanise heart muscle, even by rapidly repeated induction shocks. A single stimulus applied to heart muscle produces a single prolonged contraction. Again, the mode of development of the currents of action does not indicate anything of the nature of a tetanus. With each beat of the ventricles the variation in the electric potential begins at the base and travels rapidly to the apex. This passage of the contraction wave along the fibres explains the great length of the ventricular systole as a whole. There can be no doubt that each contraction of heart muscle is of the nature of a muscle twitch. In this respect heart muscle resembles non-striped muscle [see vol. vii. p. 515). It further resembles it in that the minimum stimulus is also a maximum stimulus—i.e. the smallest stimulus which will make the muscle contract makes it contract to the utmost. But