PLEURA, DISEASES OF 146 does not as a rule ensue. In one case in the writer's practice pneumothorax was the indirect result of gastric ulcer, an abscess forming behind the stomach, which penetrated to the pleural cavity through the diaphragm, and ultimately discharged through the lung. Abscess of the lung, cancer of the lung, "apoplexy" of the lung, have been regarded as causes of pneu- mothorax. Such cases must be of extreme infrequency. The writer's experience is en- tirely in accord with the statement of Douglas Powell: " Excluding gunshot wounds, the dis- charge of empyemata, and gangrene of the lung, it is infinitely rare for pneumothorax to occur from any other cause than the breaking down of subpleural consolidations in phthisis." The admission of air to the pleural cavity in consequence of the aspiration of an empyema is an occasional cause of pneumothorax. As regards the relative frequency of the var- ious causes of pneumothorax, pulmonary tuber- culosis easily takes the first place. Saussier, whose statistics are quoted by Fraentzel, found pulmonary tuberculosis in 81 out of 131 cases of pneumothorax. These figures, as Fraentzel justly remarks, "evidently give a too small comparative proportion to pulmonary consump- tion." He regards this cause as present in about 14 out of every 15 cases. Walshe puts the proportion of cases coming under this head at 90 per cent. Empyema is a somewhat fre- quent cause of pneumothorax. Saussier found this cause present in 29 of his 131 cases. The other causes, excepting perhaps gangrene of the lung, are quite rare. As regards the proportion of cases of pul- monary tuberculosis in which pneumothorax occurs, we find divergent views. Neil put it at 13 per cent, Williams at 10 per cent, West and Powell at 5 per cent. The writer's experi- ence tends to corroborate the last figure. Authorities differ as to which side is oftener aff"ected, but the point is immaterial. Pathology. — Most observers incline to the opinion that pneumothorax is most apt to occur in acute cases of pulmonary tuberculosis, espe- cially in the acute caseating form, but Fraentzel holds the contrary view, and asserts that in his experience pneumothorax has arisen most often in chronic cases, and usually at a very advanced stage of the disease. This has also been the experience of the writer. Acute miliary tuber- culosis and fibroid tuberculosis seem to have little tendency to cause pneumothorax. Violent fits of coughing and straining at stool seem to be the usual exciting causes of pneumothorax in tubercular cases. The tubercular masses break down near the surface of the lung, necrosis of the pleura occurs, and pneumothorax follows. If it were not for the formation of protecting pleural adhesions, pneumothorax would be a common, instead of a rare, phase of pulmonary tuberculosis. There may be one or several openings, and the opening or openings may be large or small, patent and direct, or oblique and valvular. As regards the seat of the perforation, Williams found it in the upper lobe in 17 instances, in the middle lobe in 4, and in the lower lobe in 16, in the tubes between the upper and middle lobes in 1. Walshe was of opinion that "the pleura commonly gives way postero-laterally in the area comprised between the third and sixth ribs." West's figures give a large preponderance to the upper lobe. The mode in which empyema or pulmonary gangrene gives rise to pneumothorax is too obvious to demand any detailed description. The gas effused into the pleural cavity is found to have approximately the characters of expired air. J. Lasch states, on the authority of some unnamed observers, that by estimating the amount of oxygen and carbon dioxide in this gas, we can determine whether or not there is a free comumnication between the bronchi and the pleural cavity. If a free opening exists, the proportion of oxygen is over 10 per cent, that of carbon dioxide not exceeding 5 per cent, while if no such opening exists the proportion of oxygen is under 10 per cent, that of carbon dioxide over 10 per cent. Douglas Powell estimated the state of the intrapleural pressure in 16 cases of pneumo- thorax. He found the pressure nil in 4 cases, and in 12 cases the pressure varied from If to 7 inches of water. Clinical History.—Mode of Onset.—In a considerable proportion of cases the onset is sudden and well marked, and symptoms of severe shock are present. The patient feels a severe pain in the chest, he has the sensation "as if something had given way," dyspnoea becomes urgent, the pulse is much accelerated, and a clammy perspiration breaks out. Cyanosis is often a marked feature. The decubitus of the patient varies. Cough and expectoration sometimes cease temporai-ily. It is by no means rare, however, to find these symptoms absent or ill marked. As Fraentzel truly observes, pneumothorax often comes on in advanced phthisis " without any particular complaint on the part of the patient, and with- out any decided aggravation of the previously existing dyspncea ; and it is only on a closer examination that we discover the presence of an accumulation of air in the pleural cavity." In cases where pneumothorax supervenes upon em- pyema the first indication of its presence may be the ejection of a large quantity of pus from the mouth. It is probable that the acuteness of the symptoms of onset has some relation to the functional activity of the lung on the affected side at the moment when perforation of the pleura occurs. If the lung be comparatively sound the symptoms will probably be urgent, while if it be extensively damaged by consolida-