85 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES and suggest that it must act directly on the liver or other tissues. Since the only respect in which the pancreas differs in histological character from the parotid gland—removal of which has no effect on the metabolism—is in the presence of the islets of Langerhans, it has been suggested that they are related to this function of the organ. Some recent observations, however, tend to show that these islets are not permanent structures, but that they are formed from and revert to the ordinary secreting tissue. 8. Duodenum. — As already pointed out (p. 66), the duodenum yields a hormone {secretin) which acts directly upon the pancreas to stimulate its secretion. Toxic Action and Immunity It is not definitely known how each of these internal secretions performs its special action, but light seems to be thrown upon the question by the study of the mode of action of various toxic substances, and the mode of production of a condition of immunity against them. As will be presentlj^ shown, a process of the same nature as the production of internal secretions is in- volved. Snake and Diphtheria Toxins.—The question may be most simply approached by considering first the probable mode of action of the toxin or poison of snake venom, or of that produced by the diphtheria bacillus, and the way in which protection against these is established by the development of antitoxins. By injecting under the skin of the horse in- creasing doses of such toxins the animal be- comes quite resistant to the poison. A certain quantity of its serum can then neutralise a definite quantity of the toxin, so that if the mixture of serum and toxin be injected the animal is uninjured. Something has been formed in the horse which seizes on the mole- cules of the toxin and makes them harmless, just as when soda is added to sulphuric acid it forms a neutral salt. The two molecules have a definite chemical aflSnity for one another, so that the toxin is no longer free to seize upon the protoplasm of the animal's body. To explain this Ehrlich has suggested that the protoplasm molecule, like the protein molecule (vol. vii. p. 490), is to be considered as made up of a central core with a number of side-chains, hands, or receptors, which play an important part in taking up nourish- ment of different kinds, for each variety of which special side-chains have a special affinity (Fig. 172). He supposes that some of these side-chains fit the toxin molecule, and are thus capable of anchoring it to the cell and allowing it to exercise its toxic action, and he explains the production of antitoxin by supposing that, as these side-chains get linked to the toxin and are thus, as it were, thrown out of action, others are produced to take their place, since they are necessary for the nourishment of the protoplasm. If the toxin is continually administered in small doses this produc- tion of side-chair be chains ^^—^7 i/O may De so in- /" V'V^ creased that they / /• / get thrown off \ ( into the blood \^ J xT sc and in it are cap- able of linking to the toxin and so •, J. Fig. 172.—To illustrate the formation prevenUng it irom side-chains or receptors, sc, by fixing itself to the ^yl^ich the toxin molecules, T are either anchored to the cell or cells. It, there- neutralised. When the side-chains fore, some of the f^^^^ ^""^ anti-toxin is blood be injected into an animal which afterwards receives a dose of the toxin, that toxin will not act, and the animal will be immune. Typhoid Toxin.—But immunity may also be estaljlished not against toxins separate from organisms, but against organisms which hold their toxin, as in the case of the bacillus of typhoid fever. Here repeated injections of increasing doses produce a serum which has the power of destroying the organism when added to it even outside the body. But this is not a simple combination, because if the serum be heated to 55° C. it loses its power; but if a few drops of the fresh serum of an unimmunised animal be added, the power is restored. Obvi- ously the anti-body which destroys the organism —the bactericidal or bacterilytie body, often called the amboceptor—requires the co-operation of another body to enable it to act, and this body has been ^/ CDTH called the complement or acti- vator. Ehrlich supposes that ] ( d the immune body does link to the protoplasm of the organ- ism, but that it must in its turn be linked to the comple- ment. The figure may help to explain this (Fig. 173). Cytotoxins. — Similar anti- bodies, acting upon the cells viz.-To iUus- of the animal body, may be tVate the anchoring produced by injecting the par- ambS:eptor!''of to ticular kind of cell into an the cell by a side- , . , . chain or receptor, animal oi another species. sc, and the action Thus, if human blood be re- Znf'L™ peatedly injected into a rabbit the serum of the rabbit's blood becomes hcemo- lytic—i.e. acquires the power of dissolving the erythrocytes in human blood. In this case too, the immune body requires the presence of a complement, readily destroyed at a compara- tively low temperature, to enable it to act. If such hsemolytic serum be injected into another animal an anti-hsemolysin may be developed—a body which will antagonise the action of the hsemolysin. Possibly this is a body which links