184 PNEUMONIA—CLINICAL SECTION total quantity of liquid food given in 24 hours should not exceed three pints and a half, that is, two litres. In addition, cold water may be allowed ad libitum. Should the stomach be much upset and irritable, equal parts of whey and egg-water will usually be borne better than anything else. Egg-water—the eau albu- mineuse of the French—is prepared by whipping up the whites of from two to four eggs to a froth, then stirring into a pint of cold water and finally straining. This albumin-water replaces the casein of the milk which has been separated as curd in the making of the whey. Should a mild stimulant be required, wine-whey may be substituted for ordinary two-milk whey —that is, whey made by adding one part of fresh butter-milk to two parts of warm milk in a saucepan over a slow fire. Milk and soda water, or carbonised water, form a grateful beverage, or the milk may be peptonised or given as "junket." Egg-flip is a good food and stimulant combined. A light and palatable form is made by whipping up the yolk of a fresh egg, sprinkling a little powdered white sugar upon it, adding from a teaspoonful to a tablespoonful of whisky or brandy, and finally pumping soda water from a syphon upon the mixture in a tumbler. As regards animal broths, it is to be remem- bered that beef tea as usually made is little more than a stimulant. It is better mixed with chicken broth. Strained mutton broth is very wholesome and palatable. But raw meat juice is much more nourishing than any of these, and mixed with port wine is a power- ful restorative. Freshly made tea with milk or cream may be allowed, and a little toast, if desired, may be soaked in the tea. A cup of black coffee, with or without brandy, is an excellent stimu- lant in the early morning after a restless night of tossing, sleeplessness, and delirium. Various fresh fruits, such as oranges, grapes, and bananas, may be given throughout the attack. Bananas, indeed, are very nourishing and digestible, and serve as food even in the presence of high fever. The patient should not be allowed to suffer from thirst. Sipping cold water not only allays the thirst of fever better than anything else, but acts as a stimulant to both heart and liver, as pointed out by Sir Lauder Brunton. Some- times thirst is relieved by simply holding a little cold or tepid water in the mouth and then spueing it out. Ice is often craved, and should be allowed. At this time of day it would be idle waste of time to give a detailed historical account of the various methods of treatment adopted in suc- cession for the " cure " of a periodic, self-limited disease. These methods were the antiphlogistic plan, by which it was sought to quench the fires of " infiartwiation of the lungs " by bleeding, calomel, antimony, and opium ; the stimulant plan so warmly advocated and energetically practised by Dr. Robert Todd, of London; the wise, if so-called expectant, method adopted by Dr. Hughes Bennet, of Edinburgh, in 1848, which, though somewhat reactionary, recognised the principle of a "vis medicatrix naturae" in relation to pneumonia; the antipyretic plan of the German school, with its large doses of quinine (30 grains at intervals of 48 hours), its repeated baths at 102° to 104° F., and its ice-pack or cold compresses to the chest walls; the symptomatic treatment of cough, pain, in- somnia, delirium, vomiting, and diarrhoea, or other troublesome epiphenomena; and, lastly, the serum or antitoxin treatment, introduced by G. and F. Klemperer in 1891. Our position to-day is this. We cull from one and all of the foregoing methods of treat- ment those measures and remedies which appear most likely to benefit our individual patients, without slavishly following one method of treat- ment to the exclusion of the rest. Let iis deal with the subject under two headings : (1) the Antitoxin treatment, (2) Rational treatment. Antitoxin Treatment.—In their original com- munication on the nature of the infection in acute fibrinous pneumonia published in 1891, G. and F. Klemperer explain that the crisis seen in pneumonia in human beings occurs at the moment when the poisonous products, manufactured by the bacteria located in the lungs, are present in the circulation in amounts sufficient to call forth in the tissues the re- active change that results in the production of the antidotal substance which has the power of rendering the poisons inert. At the time of the crisis in pneumonia the bacteria themselves are in no way affected. They remain in the lungs, and can be detected in full vigour and virulence in the sputum of patients a long time after the disease is cured. They have lost none of their power of produc- ing poisonous products, and still possess their original pathogenic relations toward susceptible animals. It is only after the crisis that their poisons are neutralised by this antidotal proteid which has been eliminated by the cells of the tissues, and as this occurs the systemic mani- festations gradually disappear. Klemperer and Klemperer isolated, from the cultures of the diplococcus of pneumonia, a proteid body which is the agent concerned in producing the tissue- changes that result in the formation of the protecting substance. They likewise isolated from the serum of immunified animals a proteid which possesses the same powers as the serum itself—of affording immunity and of curing the disease. The poisonous bacterial product they propose to call pneumotoxin; the protecting body, antipneumotoxin. After obtaining these results upon the lower animals they directed their attention to human beings, and found that by the subcutaneous