PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 24 phatics—has been already considered (Fig. 115, p. 10). Structure.—(The stricture of the walls of each must be studied practically.) The capil- flG. 129.—Simultaneous tnicitig fiom auricles and ventricles. A., During stimulation of the vagus ; B., during stimulation of the sympathetic. Each downstroke marks a systole, each upstroke a diastole. (From Roy and Adam.) laries are minute tubes of about 12 micromilli- metres in diameter, forming an anastomosing network throughout the tissues. Their wall consists of a single layer of endothelium. On passing from the capillaries to arteries on the one side, and to veins and lymphatics on the other, non-striped muscle fibres make their appearance encircling the tube. Between these fibres and the endothelium a fine elastic mem- brane next appears, while outside the muscles a sheath of fibrous tissue develops. Thus the three essential coats of these vessels are produced :— Tunica intima, consisting of endothelium set on the internal elastic membrane. Tunica media, consisting chiefly of the visceral muscular fibres. Tu7iica adventitia, consisting of loose fibrous tissue. The coats of the arteries are thick ; those of the veins are thin. In the large arteries the muscular fibres of the media are largely replaced by elastic fibres, so that the A'essels may better stand the strain of the charge of blood which is shot from the heart at each contraction. In the veins, double flaps of the tunica intima form valves which prevent any regurgitation of blood. The great characteristic of the walls of the large arteries is the toughness and elasticity given by the abundance of elastic fibrous tissue ; of the small arteries, the contractility due to the preponderance of muscular fibres. Physiology.—The circulation of blood in the vessels is that of a fluid in a closed system of elastic-walled tubes, at one end of which (the great arteries) a high pressure, and at the other (the great veins) a low pressure, is kept up. As a result of this distribution of pressure there is a constant flow of blood from arteries to veins. Many points in connection with the circula- tion may be conveniently studied on a model or scheme made of indiarubber tubes and a Higginson's syringe. A.—Blood Pressure The distribution of pressure is the cause of the flow of blood, and must first be con- sidered. 1. General Distribution of Pressure.— That the pressure throughout the greater part of the blood-vessels is positive—greater than the pressure of the atmosphere—is indi- cated by the fact that if a vessel is opened, the blood flows out of it. The force ivith which blood escapes is a measure of the pres- sure in that particular vessel. If an artery be cut, the blood escapes with great force; if a vein be cut, with much less force (Fig. 130). Arteries.—If the pressure in the aorta, in the radial, in the dorsalis pedis, and in one of the smallest arteries is measured, it is found that while it is great in the great arteries— about 160 mm. Hg in the aorta—it is much 160 Fig. 130.—Diagram of the distribution of mean blood pressure throughout the blood-vessels. The arteries; C, the capillaries; 1'., the veins. less in the small arteries. This distribution of arterial pressure might be plotted out as in Fig. 130, Ar. Veijis.—If the pressure in any of the small