PTERYGIUM 343 lar fold of the ocular conjunctiva to the cornea (Gr. TTTcpvi, a wing). See Conjunctiva, Diseases OF (Various Conditions, Pterygium). Pterygium Unguis.—A coalescence of the skin at the root of the nail with the nail. See Nails, Affections of the {Pterygium). Pterygoid. — Wing-shaped {irripv^, a wing), e.g. the external and internal pterygoid plates or processes of the sphenoid bone, between which is the pterygoid notch, and in the neigh- bourhood of which are the pterygoid fossa, the pterygoid tubercle, and pterygo-palatine canal. PtiiOSiS.—The loss of hair on any part of the body; ptilosis ciliaris is the loss of the eye- lashes ; madarosis. PtOina,ineS.—The term ptomaines (Gr. TTTuiixa, a corpse) was formerly applied to alka- loids produced by decomposition of the body tissues, but is now also applied to alkaloids found in the body during life. The term leuco- maine was at one time applied to the animal alkaloids produced during life, in contradistinc- tion to ptomaines produced by decomposition of dead animal matter. Both these terms are now more or less obsolete, and the term animal alkaloid is universally applied. The nature and source of these complex and important substances is described vmder "Alkaloids" in Vol. I. See also Cholera Nostras {Etiology); Digestion and Metabolism {Intestinal Secretion, Ptomaines); Micro-Organisms {Products of Bac- teria) ; Physiology, Food and Digestion {Fate of Digestive Secretions in Alimentary Canal); Snake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes {Putrefaction of Fish, Ptomaine-Poisoning); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Etiology, Toxic Sub- stances). Ptosis.—Drooping of the upper eyelid, congenital or acquired, due to an affection of the levator palpebrse superioris. See Eyelids, Affections of {Affections of Muscles, Levator Palpebrce, Paralysis). See also Brain, Tumours of {Diagnosis, Tumour of Grus Cerebri); Con- junctiva, Diseases of {Trachoma Symptoms); Hysteria {Motor Dism-ders, Blepharospasm); Lacrimal Apparatus, Diseases of {Disease of Lacrimal Gland, Results); Myasthenia Gravis {Symp)tomatology); Ocular Muscles, Affections of {Paralysis); Ophthalmoplegia ; Syphilis {Tertiary, Eye Affections); Tabes Dorsalis {Symptomatology, Ocular Paralysis); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exophthalmic Goitre, Stellwag's Sign). Ptyalin. See Physiology, Food and Di- gestion {Digestion in the Mouth, Saliva, Chemi- cal Characters); New-Born Infant {Physio- logical Peculiarities, Buccal Digestion). Ptyalism.—Salivation (Gr. TTTVd), I spit), e.g. from mercurial poisoning or as a disease of pregnancy. See Pregnancy, Affections and Complications {Digestive); Salivary Glands, Disorders of {Ptyalism). PtyChotiS Oil.—This oil, known also as Ajowan oil {Oleum Ajoivan) is obtained from the fruit of Carum copticum, and is used for the same purposes as thymol (carminative, anti- septic, etc.); it is official in the Indian and Colonial Addendum to the B.P. Dose—| to 3 m. Puberty. Introductory ..... 343 Signs of . . . ^ . . . 344 Precocious and Retarded Puberty . 344 Disturbance of General Health . . 345 Hygiene of ..... . 346 See also Adolescent Insanity {Insanity of Puberty) : Cough {Barking Cough of Puberty); Epistaxis {Etiology, Puberty); Larynx, Neu- roses OF {JVet'vous Laryngeal Cough); Menstrua- tion and its Disorders {Piiberty); Mental De- ficiency {Ci-etinoid Cases, Abseiice of Puberty). Puberty is the time at which the reproductive organs enter the initial stage of potential or physiological activity. It is the beginning of the development from childhood into maturity. The time occupied in this development is long, in most people 12 or 13 years. It is known as adolescence, and it may be said to begin normally at from 12 to 14 or 15 years of age with the appearance of the first signs of puberty, and to end at the age of 25. As W. S. Christopher puts it, adolescence is the " epoch for the latentisa- tion of force for reproductive purposes, and this latentisation requires a high nutrition and a relatively low activity." In childhood the whole energy of life is di- rected towards growth, the building up of the bodily frame, bone, muscle, nervous tissue, etc. Children are more ready to suffer from mal- nutrition than adults, as they have not only to live but to grow, and the daily demands made on their nutritional powers are necessarily much greater than they are when growth has ceased. Long before young people have done growing the organs of reproductive life pass from quies- cence to a certain measure of potential activity. From the date of this change, which we call puberty, the child has not only to live and to grow, but to develop his highest mental powers as well as his most complex animal functions. As perfect function cannot precede complete growth, it is clear that puberty does not mark the time at which the functional activity of the reprodvictive organs would be anything but harm- ful. Nature's care for the species rather than for the individual is shown by the age at which reproduction is possible. From the point of view of the individual the premature exercise of the generative functions is opposed both to perfect growth and to high development. Ado- lescence should be entirely occupied with growth