PLAGUE 122 guinea-pig or rat produces enlargement of the inguinal glands in twenty-four hours, and usually death in forty-eight to seventy-two hours. Post-mortem A2:>pearances in Plague-infected Animals.—The appearances in naturally in- fected rats, mice, and cats are much the same. There is general congestion, oedema, and minute hsemorrhages vmder the skin and into various viscera, and connnonly enlargement of lymphatic glands in different situations, with or without pneumonia. 7. Diagnosis (1) Early Recognition of the Disease in a Locality. — In most towns or places which become plague infected there is well-nigh in- variably a section of the press and a large body of the public who most strenuously deny the existence of the disease within their midst, and who place every obstacle within their power in the way of tliose who are combating the epi- demic. This obstruction on the part of the public has been well marked in India, Egypt, and South Africa; in the latter instance not only among the natives and coloured people, in whom ignorance is to be expected, but also among educated Europeans. This attitude is not merely interesting to note, but it is also of importance to recognise, and to expect in future plague epidemics, wherever they may occur, though in this country it is to be expected public obstruction would be slight. In the early days of an epidemic the only evidence upon which an absolute diagnosis of plague is justified is that of the bacteriologist. Although he can give an opinion on merely staining smears obtained from the patient, he cannot give an absolute diagnosis for three or four days, when his animal experiments are completed. During this period, however, the public health authority has to take pre- cautionary measures, and as far as isolation goes to act as if this suspected case were genuine plague. The occurrence of two or three cases of pneu- monia in the same house or among those visiting it, or several sudden deaths in a neigh- bourhood under circumstances where association of these persons with one another is known, should cause suspicion as to the presence of some epidemic disease, possibly plague. An increase in the number of deaths in a locality, especially an undue number of certificates of pneumonia, heart disease, and puerperal fever, may become a suspicious circumstance. The occurrence of any illness in a locality in which rats are known to be dying should be looked upon with suspicion until plague can be defin- itely excluded. Convulsions among children with speedy death may be a manifestation of plague. (2) Diagnosis.—On the occurrence of a sus- picious case of glandular fever, after noting the presence or absence of symptoms already de- scribed as present in plague, it will be necessary, with antiseptic precautions, to puncture the gland for bacteriological examination. This may be conveniently done by the following procedure :— (a) Wash the skin over the bubo with soap and water, then freely with alcohol. Introduce the needle of a sterilised hypodermic or anti- toxin syringe into the periglandular tissue or the substance of the gland and draw off some fluid. It may be necessary to steady the gland, and very little fluid may be obtainable. (6) Make cover-glass smears from the fluid drawn off, and allow them to dry in the air. Fix the films by passing rapidly through the flame of a Bunsen burner or spirit-lamp three or four times. (c) The smear's can then be stained, as already described, or transmitted to the bacteriologist by placing them in a small box well padded with cotton-wool. {d) Some of the fluid should also be sent to the bacteriologist, or cultures made directly at the bed-side. The bacteriologist then makes microscopic, cultural, and inoculation experiments, and a diagnosis is arrived at. During the course of an epidemic such pre- cautions are unnecessary, and a history of exposure to infection (where obtainable) and a general examination of the patient are usually sufficient. The chief points of importance are — sudden onset, prostration, fever, headache, rapid pulse, the coated tongue with red edges, vomiting, giddiness, thickness and hesitancy in speech, injection of the conjunctivae, staggering gait, and glandular tenderness. Cases of pestis ambulans are difficult to diagnose, and the glands should be punctured where possible. Failure to recover the bacillus does not, how- ever, put plague out of court. Pneumonic plague can be diagnosed from the prostration and illness out of proportion to the lung changes which are found, the absence of the respiration-pulse ratio in ordinary, but not so markedly absent in plague pneumonia, and the presence of the specific bacillus in the sputum. Septicsemic plague can only be absolutely diagnosed from an examination of the blood, which usually shows the bacillus in this type of the disease. During the course of an epidemic of plague, especially among races who do not readily consult qualified medical men during their illness, post-mortem examinations should be made wherever possible in cases of sudden death, or if otherwise suspicious. Scheube states that the serum agglutinative reaction (equivalent to the Widal reaction for typhoid) is constantly absent in the early stages of the disease, where it would be of special