1 412 PULSE, THE In the youthful type of irregularity the diastolic period is sometimes so much prolonged that the whole pulse-curve, if measured, may be found equal to, or even greater than, two Fig. 69.--The longer pulse-beats (lengthened diastolic periods) occur during expira- tion. The vagus is here regaining its influence over the heart (over-action), after the transient loss of control at inspiration (quickening of the pulse). ordinary pulse intervals. But a second heart- beat does not really occur in this form of ir- regularity. Some Conditions ivhere this Type of Pulse Irreg- ularity occurs. —The condi- tions favouring the appearance of irregularity in children are:— (1) Rest in bed. (2) Slowing of the pulse after fevers. (3) Dui'ing certain diseases cular meningitis, etc. (4) During respiration. Possible Subdivision of the Youthf ul Type of such a tracing is examined a more regular type of irregularity is apparent—there is some method in the arrangement of the long and short beats. It is therefore possible to make a siib- division of the youthful type of pulse irregularity: (1) Those which are due to the influence of respiration. (2) Those which are not due to the influence of respiration. Description of the Bigeminal Pulse and some of its Modifica- tions.— We have already indi- cated what is the special feature of the adult type of irregularity. We may now, however, add something more. Traube described this form as the pulsus bi- geminus or bigeminal pulse (Fig. 71), and be- lieved the second and smaller beat to be due Fig. 71.—The "pulsus bigeminus" of Traube. Male patient set. 64, suffering from advanced arterio-sclerosis —peripheral resistance enormously increased. (" False ventricular intermission "—Cushny.) -chorea, tuber- FIG. 70.—Pulse irregularity due to vagus inHuenee. Boy ast. 9 years, under the action of digitalis Pulse Irregidarity.—Tlie irregularity in all these cases is very similar, but the writer is disposed to think that certain distinctive features mark that form which is dependent on respira- tion. In the usual type of irregularity, which is not due to respir- ation, the di- astolic periods are sometimes 1 e n gthened, and are some- times mark- to an exaggerated dicrotic wave. A simul- taneous tracing of the left apex-beat entirely disproves this idea (Fig. 72). It is then clearly demonstrated that two ventricular contractions follow each other in rapid succession dur- ing the time occupied by the prolonged pulse interval. The little upheaval marked j5 in the trac- ings is really a second and early systolic con- traction, and is followed by a long diastolic period. This so-called premature systole (p) may be represented in the tracing by a very Fig. 72.—The "pulsus bigeminus," with a simultaneous cardiugraphic record, to show the two ventricu ar contractions corresponding to the full pulse-beat and the premature beat (p). ("False ventricular interuiissiun.") edly short- ened. Short beats follow long beats all through the tracing without maintaining any definite order. In the respiratory irregularity the diastolic periods are almost invariably length- ened during the expiratory phase, and are sometimes shortened during inspiration. When small or by a relatively large wave. In some cases, when the second systole is not sufficiently strong to raise the aortic valves, the elevation is absent altogether, and then the line of descent of the tracing falls steadily to the abscissa. In such a case it may very easily be mistaken