PEOSTATE GLAND 323 but its presence should always be suspected when a patient suffering from a strumous en- largement of the epididymis or a tuberculous kidney complains of a weight in the perinseum and rectal tenesmus. The diagnosis may be confirmed by the occurrence of occasional slight haemorrhages, by the discovery of tubercle bacilli in the urine, and by the presence of an enlarged prostate. The enlargement may con- sist of one or more isolated masses embedded in the substance of the prostate, or may be due to a general increase in the whole gland. As the disease advances the symptoms become un- mistakable. The urine becomes muco-purulent, hfematuria is a frequent sign, and gradually, as the new formation encroaches upon the neck of the bladder, the symptoms of prostatic obstruc- tion become more marked, and may culminate in complete retention. The diagnosis in the early stages may be difficult in some instances, but during the later developments little difficulty should be experi- enced. Frequent and painful micturition in a strumous subject associated with occasional hsematuria, in the absence of vesical calculus, is a strongly suspicious circumstance; and if in these conditions we have muco-purulent urine containing tubercle bacilli, and a painful swell- ing at the neck of the bladder, in a man between 20 and 40 years of age, the diagnosis of tuber- cular disease of the prostate may be made with confidence. The prognosis must depend upon a careful consideration of the whole circumstances of the case, the nature and extent of the primary dis- ease, as well as that of the local lesion. Most of the cases run from bad to worse, and acute sepsis of the urinary tract brings about its in- evitable termination. Treatment.—When the local disease is limited and the general constitution good, which it very rarely is in these cases, surgical interference may be justifiable. Some surgeons advocate incising the gland, scraping away the tuber- culous material, and packing with iodoform gauze, and no doubt in a few instances this ti'eatment has been remarkably successful. The use of lactic acid and other agents has been ad- vocated, while considerable benefit is also said to be afforded by the injection into the bladder of an emulsion of iodoform in olive oil, three or four times a day. The use of instruments passed into the bladder is to be avoided, as they merely cause irritation and aggravate the dis- ease. In the more severe cases local treatment is practically limited to alleviating suffering by opening, scraping out, and draining the tuberculous abscess, and by administering nar- cotic drugs in the form of suppositories. Of the constitutional treatment nothing need be said. {h) Cystic diseases of the prostate are very uncommon. Of retention cysts there are two varieties: (1) those due to obstruction of the excretory duct of the prostatic follicles, and (2) those caused by closure of the orifice of the sinus pocularis. Besides these there are hydatid cysts which are not strictly prostatic, having their origin in the tissues between the bladder and rectum, rather than in the substance of the gland. By their proximity they may closely simulate prostatic enlargement. These cystic conditions are of pathological interest, but not of much clinical importance, except in so far as concretions are liable to form in them. (i) Prostatic coiicretions are vei'y common in old persons. When small in size and of recent formation they are pale in colour, but if large and old they are reddish brown or black. They vary in size, some being very much like rounded grains of sand, while others may be as large as poppy seeds. They are round or oval in form, and sometimes on section present a stratified appearance and possess a central cavity. These concretions are composed of organic matter de- rived from the prostatic secretion, and give the reaction of amyloid material. When old they may become calcified and invested in a deposit of phosphate and carbonate of lime, and then form prostatic so-called " calculi." They vary in number from a few to two or three hundred in one prostate, and some by passing into the urethra escape with the urine. They rarely cause any symptoms unless their presence gives rise to inflammation of the gland. In a few instances, however, they have caused irritation at the neck of the bladder, hsematuria, and obstruction to the flow of urine. When a sound is passed over the pi'ostatic urethra a creaking sensation is felt. The treatment consists in removing the calculi with urethral forceps, or, if this cannot be done, by a median perineal incision, care being taken to injure the gland as little as possible. This operation is resorted to only when the calculi are numerous or lai-ge. Prostatectomy.—Excision of the pros- tate gland in whole or in part. See Prostate Gland {Hypertrophy, Treatment). Prostatitis.—Inflammation of the pros- tate. See Prostate Gland {Inflammation) ; Rectum, Diseases of the {Rectal Symptoms from Prostatic Disease); Spermatorrhcea {Causes). PrOStatO-CystitiS.—inflammation of the prostate and bladder. See Prostate Gland {Inflaimimtion). Prostatorrhoea.—The discharge of prostatic fluid, in excessive amount, from the urethra. P r OSt at O to my.—Incision into the prostate gland; it may be done with the galvanic cautery {thermo-electric pi'ostatotomy).