338 PSORIASIS exudation is readily produced by scratching. The ordinary weeping and crusted eczema is not likely to give rise to doubt. Lichen Planus.—When lichen planus papules coalesce into a patch, it becomes raised, well- defined, and somewhat scaly. It is never so scaly as psoriasis ; it almost always has a viola- ceous hue, which should suggest the idea of lichen planus, and then careful search will almost always find some of the characteristic flat, angular papules, either near the patch or in some one or more of the favourite positions of lichen planus. In the psoriasiform seborrhoeic dermatitis, the resemblance is sometimes very close in some of the patches, but the distribution is different, the axillae, trunk, and groins are the usual seats of secretion, the scales are much less abundant, and are not in silvery crusts, but scanty and dull from the large admixture of fat, and sebor- rhoea capitis is almost sure to be present. The patches themselves are bright red and well defined, but are often not circular. Pityriasis rosea.—Here, although there are well-defined scaly discs in many of the cases, they are altogether more delicate than those of psoriasis. They are very little raised above the surface, the ground colour is paler, and the scales are very fine and scanty. The lower segments of the limbs are nearly always free, and the eruption is acute in development, and disappears spontaneously in a few weeks in most cases, although in some it lasts a few months. Squamous Syphilides.—The small, scaly syph- ilide of the early secondary period is the most like an early psoriasis. In the syphilide, the distribution favours the flexor rather than the extensor aspect of the limbs, although not very decidedly; the eruption is more uniformly dis- tributed than in psoriasis. The patches are always small, seldom over half an inch, the scales are scanty and dirty-looking, the ground colour, though fairly bright red at first, soon acquires a dirty, brownish-i-ed tint. The erup- tion comes out in crops, so that all stages are present together; the faded eruption leaving very marked staining. Further, it is common to find more than one kind of eruption out at the same time, and there are almost sure to be the corroborative symptoms of syphilis in the glands, mouth, eyes, hair, etc. The circinate and orbicular syphilide is some- thing like the circinate psoriasis. Here again the distribution is different. The syphilide is most common at the nape, forehead, and around the nose, while it is absent from the usual psori- asis positions, and seldom attacks the limbs at all. The scales are less abundant, the rings are primary, and not therefore formed from a disc clearing in the centre, and being an early erup- tion corroborative symptoms are sure to be present. A tertiary, circinate, scaly syphilide more closely resembles a psoriasis lesion, but the patches are generally few in number, not sym- metrical, are not in the psoriasis positions, often on the face are more heavily crusted, and when the crust is removed ulceration is often present in some of the lesions, while the centre of the patch frequently shows atrophic scarring ; scars of previous lesions also are often present. Tinea Circinata. — The small number of lesions, the want of symmetry, and chance dis- tribution, the scantiness of the scales, the finely papular border, and the very definite circular shape of the patch or ring ought to prevent error. Scrapings well soaked in liquor potassse would show the mycelium of the fungus. Pityriasis rubra is only like the acutely in- flammatory psoriasis, and can only be mistaken in the early stage. In advanced cases the uni- versality of the eruption, the large, flaky, loose scales, and the intensely red surface are dis- tinctive. In acute psoriasis there are always some areas of healthy skin, the scales are smaller and less flaky, and all the symptoms are less developed or intense. In all the above long list of diseases pre- senting more or less resemblance to psoriasis, errors arise from not taking all the points into consideration, and laying too much stress on one or two points of resemblance. Prognosis.—The prognosis is good for any one attack if efficiently treated, but it is impossible to promise a permanent cure. The interval of freedom may be short or long, a few cases being several years without a recurrence. Immunity is most likely to be secured by persevering in the treatment until every spot has been removed. Treatment.—A judicious combination of in- ternal and external treatment is the most rapid method of removing the eruption, although there are many cases in which either method alone could be made successful in skilled hands. There are no known means by which recurrence can be prevented, though by keeping the patient up to the highest standard of health attacks are less likely to occur, and by treating them promptly when they do appear, the extent and severity may be minimised. None of the so- called specifics have a prophylactic action, and some are injurious at the developmental period. Complete removal of every spot gives the best chance for prolonged immunity. Whenever any defective general health can be detected, the soundest practice is to treat that on the general principles of medicine what- ever the condition of the skin may be; but inasmuch as in psoriasis under thirty there is often no defect of health discoverable, there are a certain number of drugs which experience has shown have a beneficial action on the diseased skin of many persons, although we cannot always explain their modus operandi. For a long time arsenic was considered to be