EDITORIAL NOTE The Encyclopedia and Dictionary of Medicine and Surgery has now reached its eighth volume, aud the rubrics in this instalment extend from Physiology (Second Part) to Rhinolalia. The second half of the monograph on Physiology by Professor Noel Paton occupies nearly 100 pages, and includes a section dealing with the subject of hormones, which has of late assumed so great an importance. Other outstanding articles are those on Pregnancy (in eleven sections), on the PuERPERiUM (in six sections), and on Rheumatism (in four sections). New articles have been added in which Prescribing and Methods op Administering Drugs and Radium (in its new and startling physiological effects and therapeutic uses) are fully considered. Other additions are the paragraphs dealing with the physostigmatis semina, picric acid, potash, and quinine. Some of the older articles have been revised by their authors; several new additions to the nomenclature of medicine, such as precibiculturists, precipitins, and^ro- or pre-maternity hospital, have been defined ; and, in a word, everything has been done to bring the work up to the level of present day theory and practice. There are fifty-eight articles of more than 1000 words in length. These differ considerably in the space they cover, that on Physiology occupying not much less than one hundred pages, while for those on Radium and Quinine a space of about two pages is sufiicient. The subjects dealt with in these long contributions are Physiology (including sections on Blood, Circulation, Respiration, Digestion, Food, Hormones, Excretion, and Organic Chemistry), Pigments of the Body and Excreta, the Pituitary Body, Plague, Diseases of the Pleura (Medical and Surgical), Pneumonia (in two sec- tions, Bacteriological and Clinical), the peculiar endemic disease called Ponos, Post-mortem Methods, Potash, Pregnancy (in all its subdivisions). Prescribing (with a series of tables of incompatibles and of extra-pharmacopoeial and other new drugs), Prostate Gland, Prurigo and Pruritus, Psoriasis, Puberty, the Puerperium (with its six sections dealing with the physiological and pathological developments of this epoch in a woman's life), the Pulse, the Pupil, Pxirpura, Pyuria, Quarantine, Rabies, Radium, Raynaud's Disease and Erythromelalgia, the Diseases of the Rectum (Medical and Surgical), Refraction, Relapsing Fever, Respiration, Diseases of the Retina and Optic Nerve, Retino- scopy, and Rheumatism (Acute, Chronic, in Children, and in the form of Rheumatoid Arthritis). Of articles of less than 1000 words but of at least ten lines in length, there are sixty in this volume. These deal with such subjects as Pica, Picric Acid, Picrotoxine, Pineal Gland, Pinta, Piperazine, Pilot's Tubes, Pix Burgundica, Placenta, Plasma, Pleurodynia, Pneumogastric, Pneu- monokoniosis, Podophylli Resina, Polypus, Pons, Precibiculturists, Precipitins, Presentation, Pro- chownick Diet, Proteids, Prunes, Pseudocyesis, Ptomaines, Ptosis, Pubiotomy, Ulcerating Granuloma of the Pudenda, Pycemia, Pyrexia, Quassia, Quebracho, Quillaice Cortex, Quinine Radical, Radiog- raphy, Rdle, Rashes, Recurrence, and Reflexes.