RAYNAUD'S DISEASE 473 affected part. The plantar reflex, in cases affecting the foot, is exaggerated or normal. The patient during a paroxysm takes off' his shoes and stockings, or plunges the foot into cold water, or if he be in bed, finds even the pressure of the bedclothes on the foot intoler- able. The local temperature during an attack usually rises, and may be 2° or 3° C. higher than in the unaffected foot. Instead of the normal fall of local temperature on letting a limb hang down, the converse condition occurs, in which the temperature rises when the limb is dependent, and falls when raised to the hori- zontal posture. When cyanosis supervenes the temperature of the affected foot falls. The above symptoms are paroxysmal, not continuous. The effect of the dependent posture in producing pain, redness, and swell- ing is often instantaneous, so that the sufferer refuses to walk, or, if he walks, treads only on the unaffected part of the foot, or may even, during a severe attack, go on his hands and knees. The distribution of the symptoms is primarily asymmetrical. The feet are chiefly affected, the hands less frequently. The pain may spread up the limb as far as the knee or forearm. When more limbs than one are affected, all are not attacked at once, but first one and then another. When the hands suffer, the character- istic attitude is one in which they are crossed over the breast or raised above the head. Less frequent sites of the affection are the middle of the back, the area of the neck behind the mastoid process, the testicle, or the mucous membrane of the mouth and pharynx. Besides the cardinal symptoms above de- scribed, various concomitant local symptoms may be present. Thus secretory changes in the form of excessive sweating of the affected area may occur during a paroxysm. Trophic changes in the skin occur in a certain pro- portion of chronic cases; thus the skin and subcutaneous tissues may become either thickened or atrophic and glossy, and the nails may become coarse in texture. In one case observed by the writer desquamation of the affected area occurred after each paroxysm. As in Raynaud's disease, the motor functions remain unaffected. Slight diffuse wasting of the muscles may occur, but not in the area of individual nerves. Electrical reactions of de- generation do not occur, nor are adjacent nerve- trunks tender as in peripheral neuritis. Atypical cases are sometimes seen in which the vaso-motor symptoms are intermediate between erythromelalgia and Raynaud's disease. Thus the pain of erythromelalgia may be accompanied by the pallor and subnormal temperature of "local syncope," or even by cyanosis. Or redness and heat may be preceded by pallor and coldness. Or the symptoms of erythromelalgia and of Raynaud's disease may follow each other in the same person. Morbid Anatomy and Pathology.—-Very few cases have afforded opportunities of patho- logical investigation, and in most of them observers have been content with the examin- ation of portions of the nerve-trunks adjacent to the affected parts. Out of six such cases, in three the nerves were normal, one showed neuritis, and in another there was some de- generation in certain posterior roots of the Cauda equina. In three of the six cases arterio- sclerosis was present. As to the pathology of the affection, although its most striking signs are doubtless vaso-motor in origin, yet the superaddition of sensory, secretory, and trophic changes indicates that the vaso-motor system cannot alone be to blame. The cause of the paroxysms must accordingly be referred to some irritative con- dition of various nervous centres. The site and nature of such irritation are still matters of speculation. They cannot be referred, as some have supposed, to the sympathetic alone, since the pain is entirely disproportionate to that which occurs in any lesion of the sympathetic chain. One must rather look for the site of the disease in some place where sensory and vaso- motor fibres are closely associated, that is, in the spinal cord or medulla. In support of such a view may be urged not only the paroxysmal nature of the affection, but also the fact that in not a few cases erythromelalgia is one of the earliest symptoms in organic diseases of the cord. The presence of erythromelalgia should lead the observer to ascribe any subsequent nervous phenomena to organic rather than to functional disorder. It is not improbable that the site of the mischief is not always the same, and that in different cases the peripheral nerves, the spinal cord, or the medulla may be at fault. 'Thus those cases which follow more or less closely the distribution of peripheral nerves may be due to neuritis affecting especially the vaso-dilator and secretory fibres, whilst cases which are diffusely distributed over a whole limb or several limbs may be referable to some central cause, spinal or bulbar. Diagnosis.—In well-marked cases this is usually easy. Painless vaso-motor changes should not be classed as erythromelalgia, and, conversely, pain alone is not diagnostic. As already explained, cases occur in which the de- marcation from Raynaud's disease cannot be sharply drawn. From neuritis it is distinguished by the absence of muscular atrophy and of anaesthesia, from ordinary neuralgia by the absence of the "tender points" and by the presence of the vaso-motor phenomena. Intermittent limp— intermittirende HinJcen—is a condition associated with arteritis of the peripheral vessels of the it