PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 15 marked a dilatation of the Yentricles as in the frog. After the auricles have fully contracted, the contraction of the ventricles begins, and im- mediately the auricles relax and resume their original size. The ventricular contraction develops sud- denly, lasts for some time, and then suddenly passes off. The contraction of the ventricles is followed by a period during which both auricles and ventricles remain relaxed. This is called the pause of the cardiac cycle. The cardiac cycle in mammals may be repre- sented as in Fig. 121. 3. Duration ofthePhases.—Ventricular systole lasts three times as long as auricular systole; AVmCLE5 y^tiTRICLE5 Fig. 121.—Scheme of the cardiac cycle in the human heart. A.S.^ Auricular systole ; V.S., ventricular systole ; pause. the auricles contract for about O'l of a second, the ventricles for 0'3 of a second. The duration of these two phases in relation- ship to the pause varies very greatly. Whatever may be the rate of the heart, the auricular and ventricular systoles do not vary ; but in a rapidly acting heart the pause is short, in a slowly acting heart :it is long. Taking the ordinary heart rate of 72 per minute, the auricular systole lasts for one-eighth of the whole cardiac cycle, the ventricular for three-eighths, and the pause for four-eighths. 4. Changes in the Shape of the Chambers.—(1) Auricles. — These simply become smaller in all directions during systole. (2) Ventricles.—The changes in the diameters of the ventricles may be studied by fixing them in the various phases of contraction and measur- ing the alterations in the various diameters. The shape in diastole may be investigated after death stiffening has passed off and has left the walls relaxed. The condition at the end of systole may be studied by rapidly excising the heart while it is still beating and plunging it in some hot solution to fix its contraction. The condition in the early stage of systole, before the blood has left the ventricles, may be studied by applying a ligature round the great vessels and then plunging the heart in a hot solution to cause it to contract round the con- tained blood which cannot escape. Measurements of hearts so fixed show that at the beginning of contraction the antero-posterior diameter is increased, while the lateral diameter is diminished. In contracting, the lateral walls appear to be pulled towards the septum—the increase in the antero-posterior diameter being largely due to the blood in the right ventricle pressing on and pushing forward the thin wall of the conus. As the ventricles drive out their blood, both antero - posterior and lateral diameters are diminished—but the diminution in the lateral direction is the more marked. There is no great shortening in the long axis of the heart. Although the contraction of the longitudinal fibres tends to approximate base and apex, this is in part prevented by the con- traction of the circular fibres. 5. Changes in the Position of the Heart.-— During contraction the heart undergoes, or attempts to undergo, a change in position. In the relaxed condition it hangs downwards and to the left from its plane of attachment, but when it becomes rigid in ventricular contraction it tends to take a position at right angles to its base—Cor sese erigere, as Harvey describes the movement. Since the apex and front wall are in contact with the chest, the result of this movement is to press the heart more forcibly against the chest wall. This gives rise to the cardiac impulse which is felt with each ventri- cular systole over the prjecordium (Fig. 119). If the chest is opened and the animal placed on its back this elevation of the apex is readily seen. If tlie animal is placed on its belly, so that the heart when relaxed hangs forwards, the apex is tilted back daring contraction. Since the apex is twisted to the left, the movement of the ventricle is not simply directly forward, but also from left to right. This tilting of the apex from left to right is further favoured by the direction of the muscular fibres of the ventricles which pass from the auriculo- ventricular rings downwards and to the left. The increased thickness of the heart from before backwards also assists, to some extent, in the production of the impulse. The study of the position and characters of the cardiac impulse is of great importance in medicine. The position is determined by the relationship of the heart to the anterior chest wall and to the lungs. The boundaries of the part of the heart lying in relationship to the cliest wall have been already defined (p. 13), and it is at the outer and lower part of this area, a region bounded above by the fifth rib, below by the sixtli rib, outside by a line drawn vertically through the nipple, and inside by a line drawn vertically midway between the nipple and the left edge of the sternum, that the cardiac impulse is felt. Normally it does not extend outwards beyond the nipple line, but frequently when the left lung is voluminous the impulse only extends out to an inch or so inside of the nipple line. In children, on account of the size of the liver, it is often felt between the fourth and fifth ribs. This impulse is often called the apex beat—but