PULSE, THE 404 and with general relaxation of the vessel (Figs. 42, 43, and 44). The Monocrotic Pulse.—It is somewhat diffi- FlQ. 42.—Typical dicrotic pulse (enteric fever, 20tli day). cult to decide upon the form of pulse-curve to which this term may be correctly applied. The usual definition of a monocrotic pulse is Fig. 43.—More fully developed dicrotism. one in which the dicrotic wave is absent. The sphygmogram shows a series of single curves, but in some of these the position of the dicrotic Fig. 44.—Hyperdicrotism of tlie pulse. This is largely the result of the needle of the sphygmograph and extreme rapidity Again, when the arterial pressure is low and the pulse rapid, the dicrotic wave may be de- veloped to such an extent that it nearly equals the size of the systolic wave. Such a tracing as Fig. 47, where the diastolic phase of the ventricle is hardly apparent, might be mis- taken for a monocrotic pulse. Speaking of the monocrotic pulse, Mahomed said ; " A monocrotic pulse is merely a hyper- dicrotic pulse, which is so rapid that the primary up-stroke becomes superimposed upon the dicrotic wave, which has not time to travel to the radial before the more rapidly transmitted pi'imary wave of the succeeding cardiac contraction overtakes and ab- sorbs it, as one often sees a small wave of the sea merged into the larger one which has overrun it. In a very rapid hyperdicrotic pulse we have observed this for a few beats at a time {see Fig. 45), but in such a case the dic7-otic loave is not really absent, nor is the blood pressure excessively low; the mere rate of the pulse has led to the production of monocrotic curves. It might be advisable to limit the term " monoci'otic pulse " to those cases in which the single elevation is the result of the disappearance of the dicrotic wave. A sphygmo- gram of this type is of evil omen, because it denotes extreme lower- ing of the blood pressure; the hyperdicrotic form, which be- comes monocrotic, is only signi- ficant of danger on account of its of increased inertia _ . of the pulse. great rapidity. notch is indicated either by a break towards the end of the down-stroke, or by a slight rise which appears just before the commencement Fig. 45.—Monocrotic pulse (disappearance of dicrotic wave) case of puerperal septicaemia. of the up-stroke (Fig. 45). A monocrotic pulse, in its literal sense, means a pulse which shows only one distinguishable wave. But there are certain fallacies to be noted. In the case of very young infants, and also in older children, the sphygmogram sometimes appears as a single undulation (Fig. 46). Hence the pulse at this period of life has been called monocrotic, and this would seem to be compatible with the low blood pressure of the infant (Ozanam, Keating and Edwards, and others). By the use of more delicate instru- ments, however, the infant's pulse is found, in reality, to be of the type which is associated with a relatively high blood pressure in the arteries. The Sphymographic Appearances of the Pulse in Infancy The radial artery of the new-born infant is very small, and cannot be felt as a definite structure. The vessel is situated rather deeply in the tissues of the wrist, and there is often a large quantity of subcutanecus fat around it. Ozanam, Keating and Edwards, and others have described the sphygmogram from the new-born infant as a meaningless wavy line (Fig. in fatal FlO. 46.—Pulse of infant aged 10 months, allowing one wave (erroneously called monocrotic). 49). From the absence of dicrotism they con elude tliat the arterial pressure is very low, an regard the pulse as monocrotic. These author