72 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES Here they appear to be again converted into fats by a synthesis of the acid with glycerin. Fine fatty particles are found to make their appearance in the cells at some distance from the free margin and to increase in size. A similar synthesis occurs even when free fatty acids are given, so the cells must be capable of producing the necessary glycerin to combine with the acids. The fats are sent on from the cells, through the lymph tissue of the villi, into the central lymph vessels, and thus on, through the thoracic duct, to the blood stream. Unlike the proteins and carbohydrates, they are not carried directly to the liver. IV. Fate of the Food Absorbed The food absorbed may be— (A) used immediately as a source of energy, for (1) the Construction or Reconstruction of Tissues; (2) the Production of Mechanical Work; (3) the Production of Heat; Or (JB) it may be stored for future use in the body. The processes of construction and repair of the tissues and the production of mechanical work have already been considered (vol. vii., p. 492 et seq.), and the production of heat and the regulation of temperature may now be dealt with. I. Production of Heat and Regulation of Temperature 1. Production of Heat.—A. Muscle.—The production of heat in muscle has been already studied (vol. vii. p. 511). It has been shown that muscle, from its great bulk and constant activity, is the main source of heat in the body. Not only may it be demonstrated that the temperature of contracting muscle rises, but it has been found that the temperature of blood coming from the muscles is slightly higher than that of blood going to them. Muscular exer- cise raises the temperature of the body. The shivering fit which is induced by exposure to cold is really a reflex reaction by which heat production is increased. Drugs which interfere with muscular contraction, such as curare, diminish the temperature, and young animals, before their muscular tissues become active, have a low temperature unless kept in a warm atmosphere. B. Glands.—Wherever chemical change goes on in protoplasm, heat is liberated. Therefore in glands during activity a certain amount of heat is produced. But the pi-oduction in them is trivial when compared with the production in muscle. During the period of active digestion the temperature of the blood coming from the liver may be nearly 1° C. higher than that of the blood going to the organ. The liver, alone among glandular structures, contributes an appreciable amount of heat to the body, since the amount of blood passing through the organ is large, and thus a considerable amount of heat is derived from it. C. Brain. — Some physiologists have main- tained that the fact that the temperature of the brain rises during cerebral activity indicates that the chemical changes going on are sufii- cient to yield a certain amount of heat. But it is more probable that the rise of temperature is due to the increased flow of blood through the organ, since a study of the gases in the blood coming from the brain gives no indication of any marked increase of chemical change during periods of increased cerebral action. 2. Regulation op Temperature.—Since heat is constantly being produced, the temperature of the body would tend to rise higher and higher, were there not some arrangement by which just as much heat is eliminated as is pro- duced, and by which the temperature is thus kept constant. Elimination of Heat.—Heat is got rid of by three channels. A. Skin.—Since the body is generally warmer than the surrounding air, heat is constantly lost by condiiction, convection, and radiation, and the extent of this loss de- pends mainly upon the difference between the temperature of the body and that of the air. Radiation plays the most important part when a person is sitting quiet in still air; conduction and convection when the exchange of air over the surface is rapid. The temperature of the skin is increased when, from dilatation of the cutaneous vessels, more blood is brought to the surface, and conversely it is lowered by constric- tion of these vessels. The influence of varia- tions in the temperature of the air is generally minimised in man by the covering of clothes, and in animals by the covering of fur or feathers, which retains a stationary layer of air at about 25° to 30° C. over the skin. It has been calcu- lated that in man over 70 per cent of all the heat is lost by conduction and radiation. The loss of heat by radiation may be deter- mined by finding to what extent a thin metal grill fixed at a definite distance from the surface of the body is heated. This can be done by determining the change produced in its electric conductivity. By the evaporation of sweat, heat is rendered latent, and is taken from the body, which is thus cooled just as the iiand may be cooled by allowing ether to evaporate upon it. If the amount of sweat vaporised is known, it is possible to calculate the amount of heat re- moved from the body in this way. The loss is comparatively small—only about 14 per cent of the whole. The extent depends upon the rapidity with which evaporation goes on, and this is governed by the amount of sweat secreted, and by the dryness and temperature of the atmosphere. Thus a warm dry climate is better borne than one which is warm and moist, since in the former the loss of heat by evapora-