PUERPERIUM, PATHOLOGY OF 377 importance is now being attached to the factors of auto-intoxication in the etiology of insanity, and quite properly. But we do well, I think, to associate our newer knowledge and impressions with the old conceptions of malnutrition. In particular, I would emphasise the importance in the cases now considered of simple starvation of the cerebral tissues either from some poverty of the blood, for instance, or from defective cardiac action, as well as of the presence of pernicious by-products of metabolism or of defective elimination. We cannot dissociate these factors in etiology. As Dr. Lackie points out (p. 228), many of the changes in preg- nancy formerly called physiological are now regarded as due to toxsemia; and we must take the wide view of child-bearing as a process which at once depletes and poisons, exhausts and up- sets, the nervous system and every other system. During pregnancy the maternal organ- ism is called upon to bear the burden not only of its own metabolism, but of that also of the foetus, and we must bear in mind the great frequency, especially in primiparte, of disordered digestion and impaired excretion, dyspepsia, a poor or perverted appetite, constipation, possibly some uraemia, "hepatic inadequacy," and muscular inertia from insufficiency of outdoor exercise. In the puerperium the maternal economy, suddenly called upon to adjust itself to a quite altered blood-supply on the escape of the foetus, often finds itself hampered by having to deal with the products of something like septic absorption. And during lactation, just following the strains of the pregnant and the puerperal metabolism, the constitution is drained by a novel, continuous, and expensive secretion. But the nervous factors are also important—the reflex irritations which are in- evitable, and the nervous reactions which are not less so, both of which imply nervous differ- entiations appropriate to the maternal state. We cannot but admit the nervous strain of pregnancy, however well managed, however perfect the metabolism, however aseptic the various tissues—the variety of impulses which beset the brain, from a growing and quickening tumour, partly subconscious, partly impressed upon the attention forcibly or even painfully; the acute impressions of delivery, the sudden pelvic emptiness, the cessation of foetal impulse, and in its place the painful irritation of a uterus in involution; then another reflex stimulation, usually painful, when the mammae have to suffer periodic tension and relief. And again we must attach importance to the mental condition incidental to child-bearing. The emotional state during pregnancy is one of tension. The young mother is usually appre- hensive, fearful of some accident to herself or to her child ; ready to foresee domestic trouble, or even catastrophe ; distressed by her physical incapacity, and apt to feel herself a burden; fanciful and nervous, ready to believe that she is no longer acceptable to her friends, and that she has lost her husband's love. In the puer- peral state a great mental reaction occurs. It is usual to have emotional relief; conjugal feeling is forgotten in the maternal, which de- velops with an intensity that is frequently fero- cious, and the new-made mother is actively inclined and restless, itching to be up and about, and as keen to be living an active life as a hen that has hatched a brood. We must note here that this reaction shows itself in insanity, so that, while the type during pregnancy is melan- cholic or delusional, as it also is during lacta- tion, the insanity of early puerperium is one of acute mania. During lactation, again, the con- ditions are those of a reaction. The return to active life has proved exhausting, and the patient is weary in body and in spirit; her happiest expectations are not being fulfilled, and her courage is being sapped by the constant drain on her physical resources; very easily the patient slips from the hopefulness and sense of energy of the puerperium to a state of depres- sion and annoyance. For those who take a broad view of these insanities, and understand the manifold factors to be taken into consideration, I would cite these as very significant facts—that the risk of insanity is increased in cases where morning sickness has been intractable, or where uraemia has been considerable; in those also in which the puerperal processes have gone septic, and in the mothers of illegitimate children. These facts severally illustrate the importance of starvation, of auto-intoxication, of auto-infection, and of worry in the production of insanity at this period. I have dwelt disproportionately upon this aspect of the subject because it is of the utmost importance in treatment. To manage his cases properly from the point of view of preventing insanity, the practitioner must, if he has a pregnant patient who is of a neui'otic type, and especially if her heredity or her history makes him afraid lest insanity supervene, he must have regard to conditions which deprive the patient of sufficient nourish- ment, to those which poison her, whether by non-bacterial or by bacterial products, and to those which add to the already great mental strain of the occasion. The pathology of these insanities is indeter- minate. Of the acute forms—for instance, an acute melancholia of pregnancy or an acute mania of puerperium—the histological appear- ances would likely be proliferative and degener- ative changes in the endothelial elements of the membranes, connective tissue proliferation in the adventitia, and infiltration with leucocytes in the vessel walls, and especially primary de- generation of the cortical nerve-cells, varying with the gravity of the case, both in its degree and in the extent of its distribution. One