PULSE, THE 399 possible to do so, but in some low-pressure pulses the interpretation must always be some- what uncertain. Thus when the needle is jerked up very forcibly the apex of the systolic wave is very pointed, or may even be looped (Fig. 22). The needle, from its momentum, has formed an apex to the curve which is out of all propor- tion. When this happens, the fall of the needle is also apt to be too ex- tensive, and may come down to the level of the base line or below it. The lowering of the blood pressiire during the diastole of the ventricle will thus appear to be very sudden and extreme, which it really is not (Fig. 23). The Anacrotic Pulse and the Bisferiens Pulse. —These two forms of sphygraogram may be conveniently considered together, as a descrip- tion of the former will include most of the Fig. 22.—Looping of systolic wave (instrumental defect). cleft between this wave and the tidal wave is very deep. The tidal wave itself is pointed, and the aortic notch is usually situated low down in the line of descent. The dicrotic wave is usually, but not always, ill-developed. Steell thus describes the features of the t/FlG. 25.—Typical anacrotic pulse from case of aortic stenosis. anacrotic pulse: — (1) The up-stroke slopes instead of being perpendicular; (2) the per- cussion wave is practically abolished; (3) the tidal wave forms the summit of the curve ; and (4) the dicrotic wave is usually ill-developed. In addition he notes the characteristic slowness FIO. 23. -Too great falling of the first summit of the systolic wave (instrumental defect). no features of the latter. The writer sees reason to regard them as separate types. The anacrotic pulse may sometimes be a true representation of the course of events in the artery, and it is generally supposed to be characteristic of marked obstruction to the outflow of blood from the ventricle into the aorta, e.g. aortic stenosis. Graham Steell, in Fig. 24.—Anacrotic pulse, where the systolic wave appears as a rounded summit. E corresponds to the systole of the ventricle; F corresponds to the diastole of the ventricle. High position of dicrotic notch (e). describing the pulse in aortic stenosis, recog- nises two distinct varieties: (1) the anacrotic pulse; and (2) the bisferiens pulse. According to this authority, the former is the more characteristic pulse in narrowing of the aortic orifice, owing to its sluggish development and infrequency ; the latter has a more perpendicular up-stroke, a pointed percussion wave, and the Fig. 26.—Pulse in aortic stenosis. (Von Jacquet's sphyg- mograph) (anacrotic type). of the pulse, which is an important point. This description coincides with Mahomed's idea of the simplest pulsatile movement in an elastic tube, where the pulse-wave, being slowly delivered, is not modified by the percussion element. In the anacrotic pulse the systolic wave may in some instances appear as a single rounded summit (Fig. 24), or under other conditions there may be a dis- tinct break in the line of the up- stroke (Figs. 25 and 26). Among other factors the delicacy of the sphygmograph is responsible for the degree of development of this notch. The ventricle, for one reason or an- other, has some difficulty in deliver- ing its contents into the aorta, and hence there is not the usual sudden sharp impact imparted to the column of blood in the arterial system. The systolic wave then, if graphically recorded, will appear as a single sluggish elevation or as a divided sum- mit, according to the delicacy of the instrument employed. The notch may occur at any part of the up-stroke, and sometimes it occurs at the top of the curve, thus giving rise to a double summit (Fig. 27). The second summit tends