REFRACTION 495 FlQ. 11.—Writer's Axis-Finder. it may be guessed to a very close approximation by the methods already described, greater accuracy is afforded by the writer's "axis- finder," which tells the axis not merely in relation to the long diameter of the lens, but to the'longdiameter of the spectacle frame as a whole, as it sits upon the face, which is, of course, what we want to know (see Fig. 11). Emmetropia is the optical con- dition of the natural eye, in which, during negative accom- modation, the length of the eyeball and the focal length of the dioptric media are so proportioned that the retina lies at the principal focus; or, in other words, the con- jugate focus of the retina lies at infinity. This enables the retina to receive clear images of very distant objects, and, when the ciliary muscle is paralysed, of them only. With an active ciliary muscle each increment of accom- modation causes the conj ugate focus of the retina to approach the eye, till eventually it reaches the "near point" or "punctum proximum." All investigators are agreed that accommo- dation is brought about by a change in the shape of the crystalline lens effected by con- traction of the ciliary muscle, though two rival theories (Helmholtz, Tscherning) are in the field as to the nature of the change, the former having maintained that it is caused by relax- ation, and the latter by tightening, of the zonule. It is readily seen that while an emmetropic eye has the power of accommodating itself to receive the diverging rays which pro- ceed from near objects, the utmost it can do by extreme relaxation is to focus parallel rays on its retina. The smallest convergence possessed by an entering pencil is incompatible with distinct retinal pictures. That is why an even weak convex {i.e. converging) lens held before an emmetropic eye impairs the definition of distant objects, a phenomenon which supplies us with one of the three tests necessary to prove an eye emmetropic. Since it only excludes hypermetropia, a second test is needed to exclude myopia, and consists in demonstrating that either there exists full acuity of distant vision, or that at any rate there is no marked improvement of vision (other than accounted for by slight contraction of the pupil) by a weak concave lens. Though the second test excludes high astigmatism, yet a third is necessary to guard against the presence of a low degree of that defect, and may be instituted either by noting the effect of weak cylindrical lenses or by directing the patient's attention to lines running in different directions, as described farther on. Actually, very few eyes are strictly emme- tropic, a trace of astigmatism being almost universal, owing to the vertical meridian of the cornea being more strongly curved than the horizontal. While any distant object may be chosen for the first of the two tests, the most convenient in practice are Snellen's test-types (consult articles on " Visual Acuity") at a distance of 6 metres (20 feet). Range of Accommodation.—In emmetropia the "far point" remains at infinity, but the " near point" gradually recedes from the eye as age advances, curtailing the range of accommo- dation year by year. The near point is best discovered by approaching Jaeger's small test- types (described in the article on " Visual Acuity") first to both eyes together (binocular), then to each singly (monocular), till the greatest nearness compatible with distinct vision is reached. This distance, measured from the eye in centimetres and divided into 100, gives the range of accommodation in dioptres. Thus a patient who ceased to see Jj (see article on " Visual Acuity ") quite distinctly if held nearer than 8 cm. to his eyes, has ^=12^D of accommodation power, while another, whose power of distinct vision fails at 25 cm., has i^ = 4D of accommodation power. Dioptric tapes are sold which make even this simple calculation unnecessary. Those who prefer to take measurements in inches should divide into 40 instead of into 100, and the result will come out the same. Thus, with a near point of 5 inches, the range of accommodation is ^' = 8D. In later life a normal eye acquires slight hypermetropia. The following table shows the range of accom- modation at different ages, and is taken principally from Bonders. The acquired hypermetropia appears to the writer slightly exag<xerated :— Age. Near Point in Inches. Near Point in Centimetres. Range of Accommo- dation. Acquired Hyper- metropia. cm. D. i). 10 2i 7 14 15 3i 8 12 20 4 10 10 25 41 12 8-5 30 5i 14 7 35 n 18 5-5 40 9 22 4-5 45 lU 28 3-5 50 16 40 2-5 55 26 66 1-75 0-25 60 80 200 1 0-5 65 oo oo 0-75 0-75 70 -40 -1001 0-25 1-25 75 -23 -57 0 1-75 80 - 16 -40 0 2-5 1 The minus sign is prefixed to show that the near point has become virtual, i.e. behind the eye instead of before it.