RETINOSCOPY 531 central aperture, when he sees at once the red reflex. The light from the mirror passes through the patient's pupil, and falling on the retina, illuminates a certain area. The light reflected from this area passes out from his eye to the eye of the observer, and the latter sees the patient's pupil brightly illumin- ated. By rotating the mirror on its axis the position of the light area is of course changed. If now the observer rotates the mirror, he will see a dark shadow—with a nearly straight edge at right angles to the direction of the movement of the mirror—pass across the patient's pupil; either in the same direction as—that is with— the mirror, or in the opposite direction to—that is against—the mirror. The edge of the shadow is the edge of the illuminated area, and the appearance of the shadow is due to the observer looking at an unilluminated portion of the retina. It is upon the apparent movement of this light area with its attendant shadow in relation concave mirror has a focal length of 22 cm. Both the plane and concave mirrors have their special advantages, but perhaps the plane mirror is more generally useful. To vmderstand the relative movements of the shadow and mirror, we must trace the course which the rays of light take and find out. I. How the movements of the mirror cause the light area to move 07i the patient's retina, (a) When a plane mirror is used. (b) When a concave mirror is used. II. How this light area on the patient's retina appears to the observer to move—in (a) emmetropia ; (6) hypermetropia ; (c) myopia. 1. (a) Plane mirror. In Fig. 1, AA is a plane mirror, L the source of light. Rays of light reflected from the mirror AA will appear to come from a point I, which may be called the immediate source of light, situated on the line drawn perpendicular to the mirror's surface, and the same distance behind the mirror that L is in front. The rays to the movement of the mirror that the method of retinoscopy depends. The relative agreement or disagreement of the movement of the shadow and the mirror depends upon (a) the mirror that is used— plane or concave ; (/?) the refraction of the eye, and, in certain cases to be explained below, (y) upon the distance of the observer from the patient. Thus, the observer sitting at one metre from the patient with the plane mirror— The shadow moves with the mirror in hypermetropia, emmetropia, myopia of less than ID. The shadow moves against the mirror in myopia of more than ID. With the concave mirror— The shadow moves against the mirror in hypermetropia, emmetropia, myopia of less than ID. The shadow moves ivith the mirror in myopia of more than ID. The mirrors commonly employed are about 4 cm. in diameter. They should not have the glass perforated in the centre, since the edge of the perforation is apt to give a troublesome reflection, but merely an opening in the silvering about 3 or 4 mm. in diameter. The usual LI, L2, L3, being reflected into the eye MEH, will appear to start from I, and will be brought to a focus about the line ^20, drawn from the immediate source of light through o, the optical centre of the eye, and strike the retina at a. If now the mirror be rotated about its axis to the position BB, the immediate source of light will then be at I'. The rays L4, L5, L6, which enter the eye, will be brought to a focus about the line ^50, and will strike the retina at b. Hence it is clear that as the mirror is rotated upwao-ds, though the immediate source of light moves downwards, the light on the patient's retina moves upwards; also it will be seen that this will be the case whatever may be the refraction of the eye. Thus the light on the patient's retina always moves with the plane mirror in E, M, and H. {b) Concave mirror. In Fig. 2, L is the source of light. AA is a concave mirror which brings the rays from L to a focus in front of the observed eye MEH. The rays LI, L2, L3, which are reflected into the eye, are made to converge, after reflection at the points 1, 2, and 3, to a focus at I. From I they will again diverge and pass into the eye. The focus I, then, is the immediate source of