PUERPERIUM, PATHOLOGY OF 375 after the correct diagnosis was made that any history of indisposition previous to the labour could be got from the patients or their friends. Influenza attacking a puerperal patient may for a time be difficult to differentiate from a septi- caemia. Fever in the puerperium is fortunately then not always due to sepsis, but, as before stated, great care must be taken before assigning to it any other cause. An early intra-uterine douche, carefully given, in a doubtful case can do no harm, and may do much good in averting a general infection, while, if the operation is followed by a marked reduction in the tempera- ture, it will form a valuable aid to diagnosis. 2. Sudden Death in the Puerperium Picerperal Venous Thrombosis and Embolism.— During pregnancy the blood contains an excess of fibrin, the amount increasing as gestation ad- vances. This increase of fibrin probably plays an important part in favouring coagulation of the blood in the uterine sinuses after labour is over. It has, however, also a pathological interest, as it predisposes in the puerperium to thrombosis in other parts. The commonest sites are the iliac and femoral veins, but it may occur, according to Playfair and others, primarily in the pulmonary arteries. The separation of such a thrombus and its entrance into the circulation, and its final arrest in some branch of the pul- monary artery, or the formation of a clot in the right side of the heart and its gradual extension along the pulmonary artery, are the causes of the majority of those cases of tragic and sudden death which are met with in puerperal women. The accident rarely occurs before the end of the second week, and, as a rule, there is no warning that anything is wrong. The patient is appar- ently in perfect health, when suddenly she is seized with intense dyspnoea and pain in the chest. The face in some cases is pale, in others deeply cyanosed; in all it is expressive of great agony. The heart's action, at first exaggerated and irregular, soon becomes feeble and flickering, and the patient dies in a few minutes. This is the general termination of cases of pulmonary embolism, but in some cases, after a severe attack of dyspnoea, the symptoms slowly abate and recovery takes place. In such a case the thrombus, which is small and blocks only a smaller branch of the artery, is gradually ab- sorbed. In still another class of cases there may be a temporary alleviation of the distressing symptoms, followed later by increasing dyspnoea and cyanosis, and death in a few days. Here there is probably a gradual thrombosis extend- ing from the site of the embolism. As a rule, death is so sudden that the question of treatment does not arise. In the rare cases not immediately fatal, stimulants should be freely given by the mouth or hypodermically, and mustard placed over the heart; and after the acute distress of the attack has passed the patient must be kept at absolute rest, all at- tempts at movement being strictly forbidden. Prophylaxis is of greater importance. In the treatment of a case of puerperal thrombosis, as in phlegmasia alba dolens, the affected limb must be swathed in wool, and kept absolutely at rest, it may be for weeks, until the throm- bosis has become so firmly attached to the vessel wall that its separation is impossible. Even gentle massage of the affected limb is always dangerous until six weeks from the time the phlegmasia was first noticed. A much rarer cause of sudden death than that mentioned is the entrance of air into the circulation. The place of entrance is generally the open uterine sinuses at the placental site. The accident has followed intra-uterine manipu- lations, as in turning, and during the process of intra-uterine and also vaginal douches, where air has been forced in along with the fluid. The spontaneous entrance of air into the uterine sinuses must be very rare, though such cases have been recorded. The symptoms are somewhat similar to those met with in pulmonary embolism. Sudden death in the puerperium may arise also from heart disease, from rupture of the heart, from rupture of an aneurysm, or from cerebral hsemorrhage. Many patients die from a sudden acute uterine haemorrhage, while in others the cause seems to be shock or syncope following a tedious labour. 3. Puerperal Hematoma An interstitial eff'usion of blood into the tissues of the pelvis, due generally to the rupture of a vein and the formation of a circumscribed tumour, is a rare, but when it does occur may prove a very serious, complication of the puer- perium. The situation of the blood tumour varies. In the majority of the cases it is in the vaginal wall near the vulvar orifice, through which the swelling may bulge. It may, how- ever, form in the cervix, in the peri-uterine con- nective tissue, or under the skin of the perineum, from which it may extend posteriorly into the gluteal region or anteriorly to the abdominal walls. It occurs generally spontaneously, and is then due either to the increased venous pres- sure which is present during labour, causing rupture of a diseased vessel, or to the direct pressure of the foetal head in its descent through the pelvis. A varicose condition of the veins would seem likely to predispose to this accident, but this is denied by most aiithorities. It may be caused artificially by direct injury of a vessel in using forceps. Not infrequently the hsema- toma is noticed during the labour, but more often the pressure of the descending part against the side wall of the pelvis prevents any effusion till labour is over, when it slowly increases in size, and may continue doing so without rupture