25 PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES veins, in a medium vein, and in a large vein near the heart, be measured, it will be found— 1st. That the venous pressure is less than the lowest arterial pressure. 27id. That it is highest in the small veins, and becomes lower in the larger veins. In the great veins entering the heart it is lower than the atmospheric pressure during the first part of each ventricular diastole (Fig. 130, V.). Capillaries.—The pressure in the capillaries must obviously be intermediate between that in the arteries and in the veins. It is not so easily measured, but it may be approximately arrived at by finding the pressure which is required to empty the capillaries—e.g. to blanch a piece of skin. The pressure in any part of a system of tubes depends upon two factors— \st. The force propelling fluid into that part of the tubes. 2nd. The resistance to the outflow of fluid from that part of the tubes. The pressure in the arteries is high, because with each beat of the heart about 80 grms. of blood are thrown with the whole contractile force of each ventricle into the corresponding artery; and because the resistance offered to the outflow of blood from the arteries into the capillaries and veins is enormous. For, as the blood passes into innumerable small vessels, it is subjected to greater and greater friction— just as a river in flowing from a deep narrow channel on to a broad shallow bed is subjected to greater friction. Thus in the arteries the powerful propulsive force of the heart and the great resistance to outflow keep the pressure high. When the capillaries are reached much of the force of the heart has been lost in dilating the elastic coats of the arteries, and thus the inflow into the capillaries is much weaker than the inflow into the arteries. At the same time the resistance to outflow is small, for in pass- ing from capillaries to veins the channel of the blood is becoming less broken up, and thus opposes less friction to the inflow of the blood. When the veins are reached the propelling force of the heart is still further weakened, and hence the force of inflow is very small. But, instead of there being a resistance to outflow from the veins into the heart, this is favoured by the suction action of the heart during dia- stole, and also by the fact that the great veins, in entering the heart, pass into the thorax, an air-tight box in which during each inspiration a very low pressure is developed. What has been said of the veins applies equally to the lymphatics. 2. Rhythmic Variations in Blood Pressurk. —Before considering the exact measurements of pressure in these different vessels, certain rhythmic vari'itions in pressure may first be considered. A. Synchronous xvith the Heart Beats Arterial Fulse.—With each ventricular systole about 80 grms. of blood are thrown into the already full arteries, and the pressure in these vessels is suddenly raised. If the finger be placed on an artery, a distinct expansion will be felt following each systole, and due to this rise of pressure. This is the arterial pulse. This expansion develops suddenly and dis- appears more slowly. In some cases it may be felt by simply laying the finger on the surface of the artery without exerting marked pressure, in other cases it may be necessary to compress the artery before the pulsation is distinctly felt. If a vein be investigated in the same way it will be found that no such pulse can be detected. In the capillaries, too, this pulse does not exist. It is best marked in the great arteries, and becomes less and less distinct as the small ter- minal arteries are i-eached. Cause of Pulse.—The arterial pulse is due to— \st. The intermittent inflow of blood. The arteries expand from the sudden increase of pressure due to each sudden flow of 80 grms. of blood from the heart into the arterial system. 2nd. The resistance to outflow from the arteries into the capillaries. If blood could flow freely from the arteries into the capillaries, then the inrush of blood from the heart would simply displace the same amount of blood into the capillaries and the arteries would not be expanded. As already indicated, the friction between the walls of the innumerable small arterioles and the blood is so great that the flow out of the arteries is not so free as to allow the blood to pass into the capil- laries so rapidly as it is shot into the arteries. Hence, with each beat of the heart, an excess of blood must accumulate in the arteries. ^rd. To allow of their expanding to accom- modate this excess of blood their walls must be elastic. It is upon these three factors that the arterial pulse depends. Do away with any of them, and the pulse at once disappears. Why is there no Pulse in the Veins ?—Their walls are elastic, but, in the first place, instead of there being an obstruction to the outflow of blood from the veins into the heart, this is favoured by the suction action of the heart and thorax. Hence, even if an intermittent inflow were well marked, the absence of resistance to outflow would in itself prevent the development of a venous pulse. But the inflow is not inter- mittent. With each beat of the heart the blood does not pass freely from the arteries into the capillaries and veins, but it only slowly escapes, just as rimch i^assiwi out betiveen the beats as during the heats. Hence the most important factor in causing a pulse, an intermittent inflow, is absent.