392 PULSE, THE which, by inducing vaso-constriction, greatly in- creases the peripheral resistance. Venesection, even when freely practised, will not permanently reduce the general arterial pi-essure, but as Fig. 4.—Radial sphygmogram from a young primipara suffering from puerperal eclampsia. Slow pulse of high pressure. Vessel wall markedly contracted. a temporary expedient, and particularly as a means of relieving the heart and lungs, it is of very great value. Relation to Composition of the Blood.—Wrong composition of the blood, as well as alterations Fig. 5.—Tracing from the same patient shortly after an infra- mammary infusion uf one pint of saline solution. Quicker pulse of diminished pressure with relaxation of arterial walls (enlarged calibre). in the specific gravity of the plasma, by un- settling the regular onflow of the corpuscles through the capillaries, will increase the peri- pheral resistance and raise the blood pressure, e.g. Bright's disease, antemia, etc. Relation to Respiration.—Respiration acts on the blood pressure in two ways. Generally speaking, inspiration lowers the pressure, while expiration increases it, but with a high arterial pressure these effects may })e very slight. Measurement op the Arterial Pressure IN Man The Mean A7-te7-ial Pt-essure.—The educated finger can recognise when the arterial pressure is unduly high or abnormally low, but in health there is a certain pressure maintained in arteries as a resultant of the factors already mentioned. Hamilton expresses it tersely thus : he says— " Were the heart to cease beating, the aortic valves to be closed, and the capillary outlets to be occluded simultaneously, the pressure of the blood within the arteries would represent this mean pressure." The intra-arterial blood pres- sure varies between two extremes—the maxi- mum, which occurs during the ventricular systole, and the minimum, which is present between the pulsations, during the ventricular diastole. The relations which these two pres- sures bear to each other may vary greatly. In cases of high blood pressure, e.g. Bright's disease. the systolic and diastolic pressures approximate ; while some cases of low blood pressure, e.g. aortic regurgitation, show greatly increased pressure during the ventricular systole, and a great diminution during the diastole. The terms " minimum pressure" and " mean pres- sure " are sometimes used synonymously, but others place the mean pressure at some point between the diastolic and systolic pressures. Methods of Estimating the Blood Pressure.— There are at the present day many instruments —sphygmometers—which are used to measure the blood pressure in the human subject. There are two methods by which this may be attempted, and two distinct principles are involved. Some of the instruments profess to gauge the pressure necessary to obliterate the pulse; this is the idea underlying the method of von Basch, and it is intended to register the maximum or systolic blood pressure. Other forms of sphyg- mometer are based upon a principle suggested by Marey, which consists in increasing the pres- sure on the outside of an artery until the pulse- wave attains its greatest amplitude. This method was originally adopted by Mosso, and all the instruments of recent introduction make use of this principle. It would seem probable that this method, when properly carried out, must give the minimum or diastolic pressure; for experimental proof that this is so the reader is referred to an excellent article by Drs. Howell and Brush (Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., vol. cxlv. No. 6). This, however, is not the invari- able view taken, for in the Hill-Barnard instru- ment, which adopts this principle, the maximal pulsation, according to Hill, indicates the mean arterial pressure and not the diastolic. The method of determining the arterial pres- sure in man by obliterating the pulse (von Basch, Potain, and others) should give the systolic or maximum pressure in the artery examined. But all the instruments on this principle really give a supramaximal reading, and are seldom employed. Of instruments constructed on the other principle—that of increasing the pressure on the outside of the artery till it equals the pres- sure within—there are many forms. One of the simplest has been introduced by Hill and Barnard, and the writer here quotes Hill's de- scription of the method and results from Halli- burton's Physiology (4th ed.):— " The instrument consists of a vertical glass tube about 5 inches in length, which expands above into a small bulb, and is closed at the top by a glass tap. " A small india-rubber bag is fixed to the tube below ; this is surrounded by a metal cup, at- tached in such a way that only the base of the bag is exposed. The bag is filled with coloured fluid. On pressing the instrument down over the radial or other artery the fluid rises in the tube and compresses the air in the bulb; the