MULTIPLE PREGNANCY 237 5. Examination of Placentm and Membranes. —a. When the placentfe are separate, and each foetus lies in its own chorion and amnion, there can be no doubt of their origin from two dis- tinct ova. Although developed separately the placentae, in the process of growth, may come in contact and so combine as to give the appear- ance of a common placenta. The double chorion will indicate the distinct origin. In such cases the placental vessels are entirely distinct, there is no anastomosis. b. If only one chorionic covei'ing is present the foetuses have been derived from a single ovum with two .germs. In such cases the placentae are always united, and it is not rare for anastomosis to have existed between the two circulations. The cords may be inserted close together or widely apart. c. In such cases, with a single chorion, there is nearly always two amnions. Both foetuses, however, may be found to have occupied a common amnion. The sac may have been single from the first, for the blastoderm may envelop both foetuses in a common amnion; but in other cases it would appear, that though primarily double, the cavities have been reduced to one by the absorption of the septum or portion of the two sacs in contact. Remnants of the septum have been found, and traces may be detected, between the insertions of the cords, in the forms of lines of fat from degeneration of the tissues and adhesion of the amnion beneath. Homologous Twins. — This term has been applied by Ahlfeld where normally formed twins of the same sex have been enclosed within one chorion and drawn their nourishment from a single placenta—the monochorionic disomata of teratologists. They are strikingly alike, and present great similarity in bodily development and even in disease. A very different result is found in another group of this class, the allantoido-anc/iopagiis (Ballantyne) or omphalo-angiopagus of other writers. They are defined as " twins of the same sex, enclosed within a single chorion, one of which shows more or less grave developmental defects, and communicates with the other by means of the vessels of the umbilical cord in the neighbourhood." The modes by which this anastomosis occurs are very numerous, they are both wdthin and without the placenta, and it thus becomes possible that the circulation of the deformed twin, which may not have a heart, is maintained by the heart of the normal twin. Hence the importance of carefully de- scribing the vascular arrangement in all cases of twin monstrosities, and of including the placenta and membranes when sending a speci- men of deformity to a specialist. 6. Sex of Twins.—Monochorionic twins are always of the same sex. When the chorion is double they may be of the same or diff'erent sex. Males preponderate over females, but to a lesser extent than in births generally. Most frequently the two children are of different sex. In the Prussian statistics, in 150,000 twin pregnancies, a boy and girl occurred 54,000 times, both males 50,000, and both girls 46,000 times. 7. The Diagnosis.—The presence of more than one foetus in utero may at times be suspected from the size and forn^ of the uterine tumour, but a certain diagnosis can be made before labour only on the evidence of palpation and auscultation. The uterus need not necessarily be large if the twins are small, or there is great disparity in size; and a large uterus may be due to an extra-sized single foetus, or to an excess of liquor amnii. The evidence of a large quantity of the waters, on the other hand, does not negative twins, for that condition is not infrequently pre- sent in plural pregnancies. In the earlier months there is no certain sign. When preg- nancy is sufficiently advanced to permit of the foetal parts being recognised by palpation, the definite character of a head may be made out in two places, but the apparently numerous points oi foetal limbs are liable by themselves to deceive. The foetal heart sounds heard readily in two places are insufficient; but when two points of greatest intensity are found at some distance and on different sides of the uterus, with a line of diminishing intensity and again increasing between, or the sounds lost and again found, the inference of plural pregnancy is very strong, and is made certain if on two or three observa- tions made simultaneously by two observers, the rate of the heart-beats proves to be different at the two spots. 8. The course of pregnancy is more liable to be disturbed when plural than when single. Abortions are comparatively more frequent, and there is an increased tendency for labour to ensue more or less prematurely. This does not arise, as is generally supposed, from the over-disten- sion and greater irritability of the uterus, but from the feebler organisation and consequent earlier occurrence of the physiological degener- ative changes which are now known to precede the onset of labour. When the foetuses are developed from two distinct ova, dichorionic, the prospects are much more favourable. Inequality in development and gi'owth is common—one foetus, as a rule, is more favoured than the other. The relative position in the uterus is an insufficient explana- tion, for the most favoured is not always the first to be born. In the monochorionic variety defective development and nutrition are more likely to occur, and to lead to malformations or death of one of the foetuses. The degree of proximity of one embryo to the other, their relation to the decidua serotina, and the union of the two allantoides, are the chief factors in causing interference. The greatest diversity is found where both foetuses derive their nourish- ment from one common placenta.