300 PRESCRIBING, AND METHODS OF ADMINISTERING DRUGS Types op Prescriptions.—The technique of prescription writing may best be iUustrated by taking a typical example, such as the well- known cough mixture of the Brompton Hospital. In its unabbreviated form it runs:— Superscription Recipe. Inscription . Liquoris Morphinre drachmas duas Hydrochloridi {Basis). Acidi Hydrocyanici drachmam uriam Diluti {Adjuvant). Syrupi Tohitani unciam unam {Corrective). Iiifusum Rosfe Acidiim ad uncias sex (Vehicle). Subscription . Misce. Signature.—Signa (or Signetur)—One tablespoonful to be taken in water every four hours. Initials of Prescriber. Patient's Name and Address. Date. The above illustrates the classical com- ponent parts of a prescription. We have first the Superscription—Recipe ; next, the Inscription or body of the prescription, with its Basis (the morphia), its Adjuvant (the dilute hydrocyanic acid), its Corrective (the syrup of tolu), and its Vehicle (the infusion of roses). Then comes the Subscription or direction to the dispenser— Misce; and finally, the Signature or instruc- tions to the patient. The objects of the four ingredients are sufficiently indicated by the words basis, adjuvant, corrective, and vehicle; and although not all prescriptions contain these, the traditional plan of combining four sub- stances is still very frequently followed. Grammar of a Prescription.—The Latin re- quired for a prescription is extremely simple, and the tendency is more and more to limit it. The above illustrates some of the chief points to be attended to. Recipe is the second person singular of the imperative mood of the verb recipAo, and means "take thou." The con- traction R by which it is replaced in everyday work is the symbol of Jupiter—the last relic of the medifeval physician-astrologer's invoca- tion of planetary help and guidance. The names of the first three drugs are in the genitive—of the liquor of the hydrochloride of morphine, etc.—and the quantities of each in the accusative, after the active transitive verb recipio. The vehicle is generally written in the accusative and followed by ad when not an exact quantity, but only the amount requisite to bring the whole mixture up to a given bulk is stated. The convenience of this is obvious, since when solids are ordered by weight their bulk is not so precisely known as to make it possible to say how much fluid must be added to yield (say) six ounces. All drugs, however, of which the required amount is exactly stated, should be put in the genitive, the word ad being omitted. In the usual contracted form the prescription would run thus :— January 18, 1906. R Liq. Morph. hydrochlor. 3ij. Acid, hydrocyan. dil. 5j. Syr. Tolu. sj. Inf. Rosfe acid, ad gvi. M. Sig.—One tablespoonful in water every four hours. A. B. Mrs. Smith, 10 High Street. The directions to the patient are seldom now written in Latin, but, as we have said, the custom of using that language for the body of the prescription still obtains. This is perfectly defensible on two grounds: first, it prevents the patient from knowing exactly what he is getting—often a very desirable matter; second, it enables a pharmacist unacquainted with English to dispense the prescription. It is rarely necessary now to give minute directions as to pharmaceutical procedures, hence the Latin of the subscription is greatly simplified. Practically all the phrases in common use are given in the table on page 301 (Table I.). The following formulse (which are given uncontracted) will serve to exemplify further what has been said, and to indicate the most common modes of expressing prescriptions :— Recipe, Tincturse digitalis. Tincturfe nucis vomicae, ana drachmam unam. Spiritus ammoniiB aromatici drachmas sex. A<[Ufe .... uncias duas. Fiat Mistura. Signa.—A dessertspoonful in water every four hours. Recipe, Santonini .... grana quatuor. Hydrargyri subchloridi . grana sex. Misce et divide in pulveres quatuor. Signa.—One powder to be taken at bed time. Recipe, Podophylli resinae . Semi granum. Extracti hyoscyami . . Granum unum cum semisse. Fiat pilula secundum artem. Mitte tales duodecim. Signa.—One to be taken after dinner. In contracted form the last would run:— R Podophyll. res. gr. /s. Ext. hyoscyam. gr. i/s. F. pil. sec. art. Mitte tal. xii. Sig.—One to be taken after dinner. One or two other practical points call for notice. Prescriptions should be clear. This is only attainable by legible writing and the avoidance of such ambiguous contractions as Ac. hyd. dil., etc., which may mean either hydrochloric or hydrocyanic acid ; Chlor. hyd., which may mean chloral hydrate, calomel, or corrosive sublimate, and the like. When the physician does not wish a pre- scription to be repeated without his sanction— e.g. in the case of morphia, cocaine, etc.—it is usual to add to the subscription the words Non rep., for " non repetatur." In the case of