558 RHEUMATISM IN CHILDREN ardent advocates of the infective origin of rheu- matism are forced to admit. Diagnosis.—This is generally not difficult where arthritis is present, and rheumatism is by far the most frequent cause of arthritis in children. The subsidence of inflammation in one joint witli its reappearance in another is extremely chai'acteristic of rheumatism. The multiple arthritis secondary to exanthematous disease may lead to error if no reliable history be obtainable. But in such cases the arthritis is seldom so marked as it is in rheumatism when several joints are simultaneously affected. The symmetrical arthritis occurring in the subjects of inherited syphilis should not mis- lead, as the joint affection is too chronic and too little painful to own rheumatism as a probable cause, and in a large percentage of such cases, moreover, Hutchinsonian teeth and interstitial keratitis are present. Gonorrhoeal arthritis is rare, but by no means unknown in children, and, in the absence of the characteristic dis- charge, it is only the persistence of the joint affection in spite of the administration of sali- cylates that may negative the diagnosis of rheumatism. In the absence of evidence of a source of infection, pysemic arthritis may present great difficulties in the way of dis- crimination from rheumatism. The greater local inflammation and reddening of the skin, the longer persistence, and the nature of the temperature generally, eventually lead to the correct diagnosis. Acute arthritis sometimes occurs with the onset of anterior poliomyelitis. The age of the child, the restriction of the swelling usually to one joint, the paralysis of the affected limb, and the rapid onset of muscular wasting are generally sufficient to avert mistakes. Infantile scurvy is sometimes mistaken for rlieumatism, but the error should not occur where the age of the child, the other evidences of scurvy, and the fact that the swelling is primarily, at least, not in the joint, but over the shafts of the long bones, are taken into account. The swelling of the joints some- times arising in association with syphilitic epiphysitis is hardly likely to be confounded with rheumatism if any care be exercised. Rheumatoid arthritis, a rare disease in children, may be mistaken for rheumatism in early acute stages. The resistance of the arthritis to the salicylates, the persistence of the complaint to certain joints and the freedom of others, the early muscular wasting, and the characteristic deformity about the joints seldom permit the error to be one of long duration. Apart from arthritis there is hardly anything characteristic about any of the other symptoms of rheumatism, and their nature is generally only settled by a history of arthritis in the past, or its subequent appearance, or their association with fibrous nodules or endocarditis. It may be said, how- ever, that growing pains of sufficient severity to cause limping are very seldom due to any other cause than rheumatism. Prognosis.—Death is somewhat uncommon during the acute stages of the complaint, and exceedingly rare in a first attack. In attacks other than the first, the prognosis should be founded on the extent any persisting heart affection has attained, rather than on any special feature of the active complaint. Peri- carditis, however, is attended with especial dangers of its own, and is nearly always found in those dying during an acute attack. A combination of severe chorea with active rheu- matism is of bad augury, as in such cases the temperature is apt to run up high, and recovery seldom ensues. Numerous or persistent nodules add much to the gravity of the attack. Large nodules usually foretell death at no distant date, and Cheadle is right in the main when he states that the sight of them is the equivalent of that of the death warrant of the patient. Apart from these considerations, re- covery is the rule whether the heart be left permanently damaged or not. If the prognosis as regards recovery from acute attacks be generally good, that as regards the recurrence of future attacks is correspondingly bad. Once rheumatism, always rheumatism, is not true, for even a young child may have a solitary attack of rheumatism and no more. But such cases are the exception, and usually a first rheu- matic attack is usually the prelude to others in the near or distant future. Every succeeding attack adds to the gravity as regards the heart, either by originating endocarditis, or by adding its own quotum to a damage already sustained. Treatment.—When any definite active rheu- matism is present the child should be strictly confined to bed. He should be clothed in flannel, and rest between blankets instead of the ordinary linen sheets. Salicylate of soda should be given in doses of about three-quarters of a grain for each year of his age. This should at first be given every three hours in the day, and at night if awake, until the temperature returns to normal and all pains have disappeared. After this it should be con- tinued three times a day for another fortnight at least. Should any toxic symptoms arise, such as delirium, vomiting, epistaxis, intestinal hasmorrhage, or albuminuria, then the quantity of the dose should be diminished, and the drug should only be entirely withheld in the case of absolute necessity. There is some advantage, probably, in giving some alkali, such as the bicarbonate of potash, along with the salicylate, in doses of two or three grains of the former to each grain of the latter. Painful joints should be swathed in flannel bandages, or better still in cotton-wool covered with oil-silk. Any obstinate arthritis is generally speedily bene- fited by small blisters in the neighbourhood of the joints, but young children are bad sub-