532 RETINOSCOPY light, and the rays will be brought to a focus about the line lo—the line joining the immediate source of light and the optical centre of the eye—and strike the retina at a. If the mirror be rotated upwards to the position BB, the focus of the mirror must also move upwards, and thus the immediate source Fig rays entering an eye are brought to a focus on the retina, therefore rays starting from the retina will emerge parallel. In Fig. 3, E is an emmetropic eye—rays starting from an illuminated point a will emerge from the eye parallel to the line aoc; similarly, rays starting from b will emerge parallel to bod. of light travels from I to V. The rays L4, L5, L6, reflected from the mirror BB, will be brought to a focus at I', and passing into the eye, will be focussed about the line I'o and strike the retina at b. Thus, while the mirror is rotated upwards, the immediate source of light moves upwards. r.s.3. but the light on the retina moves downwards— that is, against the mirror, and this irrespective of the refraction. The light on the retina, then, always moves against the mirror in E, H, and M. If by holding the mirror very close to the patient's eye, or by using a mirror of long focal length, the rays of light do not cross in front of the patient's eye, then the light on his retina will move with the mirror, as if a plane mirror had been used. The writer constantly uses a v.7 concave mirror of 1-5 m. focal , ^--r.--'- length, and sits 1 m. from the patient. The mirror then gives the same appearances as a plane mirror, with the double advantage that, the rays being made to converge, the light is brighter, and the troublesome shadow caused by the central aperture in the mirror is almost completely abolished. II. We have now to consider how the light on the patient's retina appears to the observer to move. (a) Emmetropia. — In emmetropia parallel The rays parallel to aoc which pass into the observer's eye will appear to him to come from a distant point, a, behind the eye on the line a!aoc; similarly, rays parallel to bod will appear to come from a distant point, b', on the line b'bod. As the light on the retina travels up- wards from a to 6 the observer will see the light also move upwards from a to b'. But we have seen that the light on the retina moves with the plane mirror and against the con- cave mirror. Hence in E the observer sees the light move with the plane and against the concave mirror. (b) Hypermetropia.—In hyper- metropia the retina lies in front of the focus for parallel rays, therefore rays starting from the retina will diverge as they pass from the eye. In Fig. 4 the rays diverging from a point a on the retina of a hypermetropic eye, H, will appear to the observer to come from a point a behind the eye on the line a'aoc. If the ilium- Fig.4- inated area travel from a to b, then again rays starting from b will appear to come from a point b' behind the eye on the line b'bod. Thus, as the light travels upwards the observer will see the light travel also upwards. Therefore in H, as in E, the observer sees the light move ivith the 2^l(^ne mirror and against the concave mirror. (c) Myopia.—To understand how the observer