571 RHEUMATISM—RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS is the condition called by Jaccoud " rheumatism fibreux." His cases occurred after repeated attacks of acute rheumatism. Patients com- plaining of so-called rheumatic pains have usually a history of true rheumatism in themselves or their families, or are the subjects of rheumatoid arthritis. 4. GonorrJioeal arthritis presents some points of decided resemblance to rheumatoid arthritis. It does not migrate, but persists in the joint or joints first attacked, and the temporo-maxillary joint not rarely suffers. It is more common in men, and the larger joints are attacked rather than the smaller. Suppuration is rare, but not unknown, and there is a marked tendency to the formation of fibrous adhesions, but none to bony out-growth. Acute myositis has been recorded in this affection, and iritis and conjunctivitis occur. In women a history of gonorrhoea is elicited with difficulty, and diagnosis has to be made by exclusion, if at all. 5. The extreme atrophy of muscles, in some cases out of all proportion to the joint affection, may lead to a diagnosis of progressive muscular atrophy. Ord mentions this possible resem- blance. Payne thinks there is comparatively slight atrophy of the thenar and hypothenar eminences, and hollowing of the palm in rheu- matoid arthritis. 6. Bouchard notes the occurrence of enlarge- ment of the base of the second phalanx of the fingers in association with dilatation of the stomach, and considers this affection should be separated from rheumatoid arthritis. 7. Charcot's joint disease, the arthropathy of tabes dorsalis, is thought by some writers to have the same pathology as rheumatoid arthritis, the suggestion being that the disease is rheumatoid arthritis occurring in a patient profoundly debilitated by his cord disease. Clinically striking features are the complete absence of pain in the joint in association with degenerative changes so pronounced that its functions are in abeyance. Both knees may be full of fluid, and so disorganised as to form complete flails, yet no pain is felt, and the patient may even get about if the joint is fixed by an immovable splint. 8. The pain and rigidity due to involvement of the vertebral joints have been mistaken for spinal caries, and some care is needed in dis- tinguishing between these affections, especially in cases where caries occurs late in life. Prognosis.—The joint affection, once started, has no spontaneous tendency to recover. It is essentially chronic, and to a greater or less extent progressive in its course, the joint attacked being permanently injured or com- pletely disorganised. Treatment can do something to modify the imfavourable course of the illness, but to be effective it must be begun early and continued with untiring patience. When a joint is crippled and distorted by gross structural changes treatment can do but little to restore it to the normal; but if the disease be recog- nised early, before such changes have been produced, much can be done in many cases to prevent their appearance, and to ameliorate the condition of the patient. In some early cases the disease may be completely arrested. Treatment.—Garrod laid down the principle that this disease must be treated by means (a) calculated to improve the general health, by a highly nutritious diet, and by tonics, especially such tonics as have a direct effect on the ansemia, and {b) by such local means as are calculated to improve the nutrition of the joints, and to prevent their becoming fixed and useless. Of a tonic treatment the importance cannot be over-estimated, and possibly a more hopeful view of the disease might be taken if it came under observation earlier, and if the treatment were always such as is suited for the arrest of the disease. The diet should be as nutritious as the patient can assimilate, and should contain a sufficient quantity of red meat, in any form in which it can be taken, and of fats. A diet consisting wholly or chiefly of meat has been used extensively in this disease, and is considered by some to be of service. This diet is based on a work published in New York by J. H. Salisbury. Where the digestion of farinaceous food is difficult, and apt to lead to excessive fermenta- tion, a diet consisting chiefly of meat may be useful, but it is not suitable to all patients, and some are quite unable to adopt it, and lose weight rapidly. Probably most patients will do best on a mixed diet. Alcohol is useful in most cases in moderate daily amount, and with food. Sound red wines are the most suitable, but malt liquors are not contra-indicated as in gout, and stout is some- times useful if it can be digested. A low diet, and especially the limitation of red meat, is decidedly contra-indicated, and has an unfavourable effect on the course of the disease. The use of cream and butter should be encouraged. Digestion and appetite are often impaired in the more debilitated patients, and feeding them suitably becomes very difficult. Clothing should be light and warm—pre- ferably of wool. It is important that the extremities, and especially the affected joints, should be carefully protected from cold. Exercise should be persevered in so far as possible, though not to the extent of greatly increasing pain and fatigue. When exercise becomes difficult, the nutrition of the muscles of the limb should be kept up by rubbing or careful passive movements, and the patient should still be encouraged to use it as much as possible.