PRESCRIBING, AND METHODS OF ADMINISTERING DRUGS 301 poor persons, to whom the cost of medicine may be a serious consideration, the insertion of the letter "P" in the subscription may be used to indicate this; most druggists dispense prescriptions so marked at the lowest possible price, but it should be remembered that this is an act of grace, and that the courtesy ought never to be abused. The name and address of the patient should always be wi'itten on the prescription. The directions to the patient ought to be written in full, invariably stating hovj (in water, etc.) and ivhen (at what intervals, or in Table I T 'J fin 17 Ti n-l i cVi Hillgiioil. aa ana ..... of each. ad . . . to, up to. ante cib. ante cibos before food. Aq. Aqua .... water. aq. dest. aqua destillata . distilled water. bis die . bis in die . twice daily. caps. capsula .... capsule. collyr. . collyrium an eye-wash. c. ... cum ..... with. div. in part. eeq. . divide in partes eequales . divide into equal parts. ft. . . . fiat, fiant .... let it (them) be made. garg. . gargarisma a gargle. haust. . haustus .... a draught. M. . . . misce .... mix. mass. . massa .... a pill mass. mitte . send. mit. tales mitte tales send of such. non rep. non repetatur . not to be repeated. pt. seq. partes tequales . equal parts. post cib. post cibos after food. p. r. n. pro re nata as needed. q. s. . quantum sufficit as much as is sufficient. rep. repete .... repeat. sec. art. secundum artem according to art. senii-(gran.) semi-{granum) . half-(a-grain). /s. (granum unum cum) semisse (one grain and) a half. Sig. . . . Signa, Signetur write, let it be marked. S. . . . solve .... dissolve. t. i. d. . ter in die .... thrice daily. what relation to food) the doses are to be taken. The hasty "as directed" is too often a cloak for negligence, and when it is used the pre- scriber ought to be sure that the patient really has received such instructions as may enable him to use the medicine as was intended. Still, when ordering remedies for use in menstrual disorders, urethral discharges, etc., it is obvi- ously undesirable to write explicit directions on the prescription: here, "as directed" finds a proper sphere. In ordering a medicine it is usual to state whether it is to be taken before or after food, and in doing so we are guided by the effect which we wish to produce. If a local effect on the stomach is desired, or if we wish the drug to act rapidly, it should be given on an empty stomach. On the other hand, drugs which are in any way likely to irritate the stomach or disturb digestion should be given after a meal, so that they may be diluted by the gastric contents. In the case of drugs given for the express purpose of influencing digestion, the time at which they are taken depends on the circumstances of each case. Thus alkalis given to correct acidity are ad- ministered at a short interval after a meal; hydrochloric acid, to remedy defective gastric secretion, during meals; saline aperients, again, should be taken in the morning, while fasting. Drugs given in small bulk and soluble form are more rapidly absorbed than when insoluble or much diluted. Dosage.—The two principal factors influencing dosage are the Age, or size, of the patient, and Susceptibility. Age.—Strictly speaking, it is the bulk of the patient, rather than his age, which should affect the dose ; but in practice not much account is usually taken of this, further than that on the whole a somewhat smaller dose of a drug is generally given to a woman than to a man. In the case of children the usual custom is to give a fraction of the adult dose equal to —^p^, where a; = age. Thus if a drachm be the adult dose of a remedy, to a child of _^ 4 + r2' or one fourth of a drachm- Other methods of reckoning the dosage for children have been suggested, but the above, which is applicable to most drugs (the chief exceptions are noted below), is as simple and satisfactory as any. In old age smaller quantities of most drugs (except aperients) are required than in the young adult, but no definite i-ules can be laid down. Susceptibility.—This is influenced chiefly by age, sex, certain physiological conditions, and personal idiosyncrasy. Age. — Children, as is well known, are peculiarly intolerant of certain remedies, yet bear relatively large doses of others. In the former category the chief place must be given to opium, which ought to be administered to infants and young children with great caution. At one year ^ to 1 minim of laudanum is an average dose; compound tincture of camphor may be given during the first year to the extent of one minim for each month, while at four we should oi'der