447 PYO- PyO-.—In compound words j)yo- (Gr. ttws, pus, or the first milk) means relating to pus; e.g. pyocenosis (discharge of pus), pyocyte (a pus corpuscle), pyopericardiuni (pus in the pericardium), 2'>!/opoiesis (pyogenesis), pyori'hoea (a purulent discharge), pyoscheocele (a suppurat- ing scrotal hernia), etc. PyOCya.nin.—A blue colouring matter (Cj^Hj^NO.,) derived from blue-coloured pus (bacillus pyocyaneus), becoming yellow on oxidation {pyoxanthose). See Fluids, Patho- logical Examination of {Pus) ; Pigments of THE Body and Excreta {Bacterial Pigments, Pyocyanin). PyodermitiS.—A skin disease charac- terised by the production of pus. See Skin, Bacteriology of {Pyodermia). PyOgrenesiS. — The formation of pus; pus-forming bacteria are termed pyogenic. See Bladder, Injuries and Diseases op {Inflamma- tion, Causes); Knee-Joint, Diseases of {Ttiber- culous Disease, Formation of Abscesses). Pyohaemothorax. — The accumula- tion of pus and blood in the pleural cavity. Pyoktanin.—Methyl violet and methy- lene blue have both been called pyoktanin (from their antiseptic properties), and have been used for antiseptic purposes in cystitis, diphtheria, conjunctivitis, etc. Pyometra*—The presence of pus in the uterine cavity. See Uterus, Malignant Tu- mours OF {Cancer of Cervix, Results, Retention of Secretion). Pyonephrosis.—The presence of pus in the pelvis (and substance) of the kidney. See Ascites {Distinction from other Conditions); Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Movable Kidney, Perinephritis, Pyonephrosis); Uterus, Non-malignant Tumours of {Fibroids, Compli- cations). PyophthalmuS.—A collection of pus within the eyeball. Pyopneumothorax. —The presence of pus and air in the pleural cavity. See Dia- phragm, Surgical Affections of {Inflammatory, Subphrenic Abscess, Diagnosis); Pleura, Dis- eases OF {Pnethmothorax). Pyorrhoea.—A purulent discharge. See H^matemesis {Causes); Mouth, Injuries and Diseases of Jaw {Chronic Suppuration, Pyor- rhoea Alveolaris) ; Teeth {Pyorrhoea Alveolaris). PyOSalpinx.—The presence of pus in the Fallopian tube {salpinx). See Fallopian Tubes {Purulent Salpingitis) ; Gonorrhceal Infection {Complications); Menstruation and its Disorders {Menorrhagia and Dysmenorrhoea, Causes); Pelvis, Hematocele and H^ematoma {Diagnosis). PyOSCOpe.—An instrument for estimat- ing the richness of milk in cream (Gr. ttvo's, the first milk, or colostrum). Pyothorax.—Pus in the pleural cavity ; empyema. See Pleura, Surgical Affections OF {Empyema). Pyoxanthose or Pyoxanthin.— A yellow pigment found in pus, derived from pyocyanin {q.v.). Py ram id.—The term applied, in Anatomy, to various structures in the body (belonging to the kidney, nervous system, etc.) which have the pyramidal form; e.g. the pyramids of Mal- pighi and of Ferrein, and the pyramids of the medulla. PyramidaliS. — The name given, in Anatomy, to certain muscles having a pyramidal form, such as the pyramidalis abdominis and the pyramidalis nasi. Pyrenaemia.—The state of the blood in which the red corpuscles have nuclei (Gr. Trvpijv, a kernel or nucleus). Py renin.—A modification of the karyo- plasm (modified protoplasm) of the nucleus of the cell. Pyrethri Radix.—Pellitory root or pyrethrum, the dried root of Anacyclus p)yreth- rum, causes in the mouth a burning or pricking sensation followed by the secretion of saliva; it consists of inulin and volatile oils and resins; there is an official preparation, the tinctura pyrethri; and the drug is sometimes added to tooth-powders. Pyretic.—Febrile (Gr. mp^TO';, burning heat); the term is more familiar in the word antipyretic. PyretO-.—In compound words ^yreio- (Gr. TTvpeTos, burning heat) means febrile or relating to fever; e.g. pyretogenesis (the production of fever), pyretology (the science of fevers). Pyrexia.—Fever, or the febrile state (Gr. TTvpecrau), I am feverish). See Abortion {Causes); Alcohol {Indications); Anemia, Pernicious {Symptoms, Temperatim-e); Children, Clinical Examination of {Temperature, Pyrexia); Heart, Affections of Myocardium and Endocardium {Etiology, Thermal); Invalid Feeding {Food in Pyrexial States); Joints, Diseases of {Tuber- ciilo^is Disease, Pyrexia); Lung, Tuberculosis OF {Constitutional Symptoms); Pediculosis {Pediciilosis Corporis, Symptoms); Pulse {Char- acters in Pyrexia); Rheumatism in Children (Nervous Affections, Hyperpyrexia); Suppuration {Symptoms, Constitutional, Pyrexia); Typhoid