505 RELAPSING FEVER continue till the thermometer registers only 94 or even 92 degrees. After the crisis the patient enters on the "first period of apyrexia," or the " inter- mission." All the symptoms of the previous week have disappeared. A man who a day or two previously has been absolutely helpless, delirious, possibly in the "typhoid state," declares himself quite well, and is with difficulty persuaded to remain in bed. But on about the fourteenth day of the disease, that is to say, roughly speaking, a week after the crisis, the relapse starts as suddenly as did the original fever. The relapse, or second paroxysm, except that it is usually a day or two shorter in duration, is simply a repetition of the first paroxysm. Once again the fever commences with rigors, headache, and giddiness, and the temperature rapidly rises. The pulse is often, if anything, more rapid than in the first attack, but this appears to have little significance, Rabagliati having noted pulses of even 160 in favourable cases. The thirst, jaundice, and vomiting may be as bad as ever, but, broadly speaking, the relapse is, as a rule, slightly less severe than the first paroxysm. The patient usually voids a greater quantity of urine than in his first attack, and this increase is most frequently noticed just before the crisis, one of Muirhead's patients having passed 84 oz. in the twenty-four hours. The second crisis is in every way comparable to the first. The temperature falls with equal rapidity, and the sweating may be even more severe, sudaminal rashes being of common occurrence. Subnormal temperature for some days after is the rule, and there may be a considerable amount of prostration. The second period of apyrexia, which usually coincides with the period of convalescence, is now reached. Occasionally there may be, however, a second or even a third relapse. If such is the case, the symptoms are, as a rule, milder. The convalescence is at times protracted and interrupted by complications. Complications and Sequels. — Pharyngitis is a common complication. Vomiting and diarrhoea may be so severe as to assume the importance of complications. Bronchitis is not uncommon, and occasionally pneumonia has been noticed, ffidema glottidis and laryn- gitis are also met with. Epistaxis is frequently observed. Delirium is most frequently seen just before the crisis, but occasionally persists through the whole fever. Insomnia is of common occurrence. The most important sequela is ophthalmia, which seems very liable to occur in convalescence. Glandular enlarge- ments in the neck, groin, and parotid are not unusual. Diagnosis.—The most certain method is microscopic, the detection of the spirillum settling the question finally. Apart from this, diagnosis depends on the presence of an epidemic, on a sudden onset of high fever, with giddiness, slight jaundice, and vomiting, and on the marked crisis. The fever is most likely to be confused with influenza, typhus, and malaria. The occurrence of the relapse removes any difficulty. Prognosis.—This may be said to be uniformly favourable except in old persons and complicated cases. The death-rate seldom exceeds 6 per cent. Severe diarrhoea, marked jaundice, and excessive prostration are the worst symptoms. Treatment.—It seems to be generally agreed that there is nothing which influences the course of relapsing fever. All that can be done is to treat symptoms and complications as they arise. A tonic treatment with strychnine or mix vomica has been recom- mended. Insomnia should be appropriately combated. Quinine and other drugs have been tried without success with a view of preventing the relapse. Rela.X£ltion.—Reduction of tension or contraction {e.g. muscular), or loosening {e.g. relaxation of the pelvic joints). Relig^iOUS Insanity. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Systematic Delusions, Religious). Remak's Ganglion.—A plexus of nerves in the wall of the sinus venosus of the heart. See Physiology, Circulation {Heart, Intra-cardiac Mechanism). Remak's Sign.—The double sensation resulting from the prick of a pin, experienced in tabes dorsalis. Remak's Type (of Paralysis).— Paralysis affecting the muscles of the arm (deltoid, biceps, brachialis anticus, supinator longus). Remission.—The period during which there is a temporary abatement of the symptoms of a disease, especially of the fever accompanying malaria. Remittent Fever. See Malaria {Nomenclature) ; Tropics, Unclassed Fevers OF {Non-Malaricd Remittent Fever); Undulant Fever {Synonyms). Remote Action. —The indirect or secondary effect of a drug, that which is the result of the primary or direct action of it; thus convulsions are a remote effect of curare, the drug causing in the first place paralysis of the respiration. Renal.—Relating to the kidneys ; e.g. 7-enal asthma, renal calculi, renal cirrhosis, etc. See Kidney, Physiology of ; Kidney, Surgical