PHYSIOLOGY—NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 61 >f the stomach (Fig. 161). This is done by iutting- out a V-shaped piece along the great airvature, the apex being towards the pylorus i,nd the base being left connected with the ;tomach wall. By a series of stitches the open- ng thus made in the stomach is closed up (top ine of AAs in Fig. 161), while the cut edges of ;he V-shaped flap are stitched together to form I tube. The one end of this is made to open ipon the skin surface A, A, and by folding in -jhe mucous membrane the deep end is isolated :rom the stomach. Thus a pouch is formed still connected with the nerves and vessels of the itomach, the condition of which represents the jondition of the whole stomach. The condition of the stomach varies greatly n fasting and after feeding. A. Stomach during Fasting The organ is collapsed, and the mucous mem- brane is thrown into large ridges. It is pale in colour because the blood-vessels are not dilated. Movements are not marked and the secretion is scanty, only a little mucus being formed on the surface of the lining membrane. B. Stomach after Feeding When food is taken, (1) the blood-vessels dilate, (2) a secretion is poured out, and (3) movements of the organ become more marked. 1. Vascular Changes.—The arterioles dilate, and the mucous membrane becomes bright red in colour. This is a reflex vaso-dilator eff'ect, impulses passing up the vagus to a vaso-dilator centre in the medulla, and coming down the vagus from that centre. Section of the vagi prevents its onset. 2. Secretion.—There is a free flow of gastric juice from all the glands in the mucous membrane. {a) Characters of Gastric Secretion. — The gastric juice is a clear watery fluid, which is markedly acid from the presence of free hydro- chloric acid. In the dog the free acid may amount to 0'2 per cent, but in man it is less abimdant, and when the gastric juice is mixed with food the acid rapidly combines with al- kalies and with proteins, and is no longer free. In addition to the HCl, small quantities of organic salts are present. Traces of proteins may also be demonstrated, and with these two enzymes are associated—one a proteolytic or protein-digesting enzyme, pepsin, the other a milk-curdling enzyme, rennin. (6) Course of Gastric Digestion—(1) Amylo- lytic Period.— The action of the gastric juice does not at once become manifest. For half an hour after the food is swallowed the pytalin of the saliva goes on acting, and the various micro- organisms swallowed with the food grow and multiply, and thus there is a continuance of the conversion of starch to sugar which was started in the mouth, and at the same time the micro- organisms go on splitting the sugar to form lactic acid, which may thus be regarded as a normal constituent of the stomach during the first half-hour after a mixed meal. (2) Proteolytic Period.—Before the amylolytic period is completed, the gastric juice has begun its special action on proteins. This may be readily studied by placing some coagulated protein in gastric juice, or in an extract of the mucous membrane of the stomach made with dilute hydrochloric acid, and keeping it at the temperature of the body. The protein swells, becomes transparent, and dissolves. The solu- tion is coagulated on boiling—a soluble native protein has been formed. Very soon it is found that, if the soluble native protein is filtered off", the filtrate gives a precipitate on neutralising, showing that an acid pjroteate (ineta-protein) has been produced. If the action is allowed to con- tinue and the acid proteate precipitated and filtered oft', it will be found that the filtrate gives a precipitate on saturating with common salt, showing that a proto-proteose has been formed. Along with this a certain amount of hetero-proteose is also formed. It is character- ised by being precipitated on neutralisation and by being insoluble in distilled water. On filtering off" these, the filtrate yields a precipitate on saturating with sulphate ammonium, indi- cating the formation of a deutero-proteose, and, if the filtrate from this be tested, the presence of a protein may be demonstrated. Peptone has been produced. These changes may be represented in the following table :— Coagulated Protein. I Soluble Native Protein. I Acid Proteate (Meta-protein). Proto-proteose. Hetero-proteose. I I Deutero-proteose. Deutero-proteose. I I Peptone. Peptone. The process is one of breaking down a complex molecule into simpler molecules, probably with hydration. The object of this was formerly supposed to be to allow of the diff"usion of the protein in the form of peptone through the wall of the intestine. It is now known that absorption is not due to diffusion, and it is more probable that the change to the simplest protein molecule is a step to the more complete disintegration of the molecule which seems necessary before it can be built into the special protoplasm of the body of the particular animal. On certain proteins and their derivatives the I gastric juice has a special action. On collagen