342 PSOKIASIS and the ointment of perchloride or biniodide of mercury rubbed in every day. It should be thoroughly understood that there is no routine treatment as far as drugs are concerned. Their proper selection and ad- aptation, not only to each patient, but to each region or even patch of disease, only comes with practical experience, and after this their application must be thorough, and the strength or medicament altered according to the effect produced. It is always wise to begin with a weak preparation and increase the strength gradually. Where the patient will give himself up to treatment with a trained nurse, and the frequent supervision of an experienced practi- tioner, most cases of psoriasis, however extensive, can have the eruption removed in three or four weeks. AVhere the patient carries out his own treatment, hammering on with one prescription, three or four months to a year is the usual period, and even then failure often results. Many patients, however, prefer treatment at spas, and when they are situated at high alti- tudes the invigoration of the climate is an im- portant adjunct. In other cases, the results are not superior to what can be obtained at home if the patient will devote as much time to the treatment. They are best for wealthy patients who cannot or will not give up their social or business engagements unless they leave home. The baths are of two classes, thermal and sulphur. At thermal stations, such as Leuk or Aix-les-Bains, the treatment consists in pro- longed immersion in weak alkaline hot waters. In sulphur baths, such as are found at Aix-la- Chapelle, Bareges, Harrogate, Strathpeffer, etc., in addition to the thermal action the sulphur acts as a microbicide. Very acute cases are not suitable for these baths, and they should always be taken under medical supervision, or they will often do more harm than good. A few spas contain arsenic. They are: Levico, beautifully situated in the South Tyrol, near Triente, 4880 feet above the sea-level. It is the strongest arsenical spa known, and there are two sources; the strongest contains yV of ^ grain of arsenious acid to the pint and 4 grains of iron salts, chiefly persulphate. The dose is one tablespoonful. The weaker spring contains grain of arsenious acid to the pint and 8 grains of proto- and persulphate of iron. The im- ported waters can very well be taken, and as a matter of fact the water is brought down from a mountain behind Levico in pipes. La Bourboule in the Puy de Dome, France, being more accessible, is better known. The arsenic is in the form of arseniate of sodium, 28 mg. to the litre, or between one and a half to two grains to the gallon. The other constituents are lithium, sodium, and potassium chloride, sodium bicarbonate, lime, iron, and free carbonic acid. A large tumblerful is the average dose. At Royat some of the waters are of a similar character, but weaker. The strongest is Saint Victor, which contains about one-sixth of the quantity of arsenic found at La Bourboule, but more iron. At these spas, thermal treatment is usually combined with internal imbibition of the arseni- cal springs. Psorospermosis or Psorosper- mia,SiS.—Diseases due to the presence of psorosperms or coccidia ; coccidiosis. See Para- sites (Protozoa, Coccidiida); Liver, Diseases OF (Calcification of); Mammart Gland, Dis- eases OF (Paget's Disease of the Nipple, Morbid Histology). Psyctialgia.—Melancholia or (literally) mental pains (Gr. ypvxrj, mind, aAyos, pain). See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms (Types of Episodic Insanity, Melancholia). Psychiater.—A mental physician or alienist, psychiatry being the treatment of mental diseases. Psycho-. — In compound words psycho- (Gr. ^l/vxq, the mind) means relating to the mind ; e.g. psychocoma (mental stupor), psychokinesia (impulsive insanity), p>sychoparesis (mental en- feeblement), psycho-physics (experimental psycho- logy), and psychotherapy (the treatment of dis- ease by mental suggestion). Psychoses.—Diseases of the mind. See Senile Insanity (Psychosis of Se7iility); Puer- PERiUM, Pathology (Puerperal Insanities). PsyC h rosest h es i a. — The subj ective sensation of cold (Gr. ij/vxpo-;, cold). Psychrometer.—The wet and dry bulb thermometer for calculating the dew-point (Gr. ij/vxpos, cold). See Metbrology (Hygrometry). Psychrophobia. —Excessive fear of cold, especially of cold water (Gr. if/vxpos, cold). Psychrotherapy.—The treatment of disease by means of cold. Pterion.—The region of the skull in the neighbourhood of the lower end of the coronal suture where it comes into relation with the squamous part of the temporal bone and with the great wing of the sphenoid; a small fonten- elle (antero-lateral) may be found here in early life. PterocarpiaLlg^num.—Red sanders- wood; red sandal-wood. The heart wood of Pterocarpus santalinus, found in Ceylon. The chief constituent is the red crystalline principle, santalin. It is contained in Tinctura Lavandulae Composita. It is used as a colouring agent. Pteryg'ium.—The adhesion of a triangu-