264 PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—INTRA-UTEEINE DISEASES, DEATH OF FCETUS so long as the placental tissue is normal and the circulation in the umbilical cord not interfered with. In fact, as has been already stated, the integrity of the placenta is the great safeguard of foetal life; consequently, when the placenta is the seat of hfemorrhages or of fibrous or myxomatous changes, intra-uterine death is very probable. Convolutions and knots of the umbilical cord, unless drawn very tight, do not produce foetal death. Habitual death of the unborn infant is an occasional and a very distressing occurrence; its causes, in order of frequency, are syphilis, maternal anfemia, uterine diseases and displacements, alcoholism, renal and cardiac maladies, and "individual predis- position. " Occasionally habitual alternate death of the foetus may be recorded, and sometimes it has been noted that only foetuses of the male or of the female sex died in utero, those of the other sex being born alive. There seems now to be no doubt that intra- uterine death, like post-natal death, is followed by rigor mortis; but it is quite likely, that on account of the feeble development of the muscular system, the rigidity may be less marked and of shorter duration than that seen in the adult or child. If foetal death occur between the third and fifth months, the com- monest post-mortem change would appear to be mummification, a drying up and shrivelling of the foetal tissues without putrefactive breaking down. If such a mummifying foetus be sub- jected to pressure, either from a tumour in the uterus or (more commonly) from a living and growing twin, then it becomes flattened and is known as the foetua compresm& s. papyraceus. Maceration is the commonest result of intra- uterine death in the later months of gestation ; it also is a non-putrefactive process. It is characterised by a softening of all the tissues and an infiltration of them with blood-stained serum ; by desquamation of the cuticle, and by the formation of blebs or bullte on the skin which contain yellowish fluid; and by the presence of blood-stained serum in all the body cavities. There may also be the changes due to the disease from which the foetus succumbed, e.g., in syphilis, the yellow line at the junction of the shaft and epiphysis of the long bones due to osteo-chondritis. The umbilical cord is often swollen and the placenta atrophic or cedematous, while the liquor amnii is of a dirty green colour from expelled meconium. Rarely true putre- faction occurs in utero with the development of gases ; it is usually subsequent to rupture of the membranes, for the germs of ijutrefaction very uncommonly gain entrance save through the vagina of the mother. Calcification is very rare. The diagnosis of intra-uterine death is one of the most difficult tasks that fall to the lot of the obstetrician. As a rule, the dead foetus is ex- pelled from the uterus about fourteen days after it has succumbed; then, of course, the expul- sion of the dead and macerated body enables the diagnosis to be made. But sometimes the dead infant is retained for weeks and even for months in utero, and it becomes as important as it is diflncult to be sure that death has occurred, and that we are not dealing with some other con- dition, e.g. a tumour of the uterus. There is no one certain sign of foetal death similar to the certain sign of foetal life (the hearing of the foetal heart); and the diagnosis must be largely based on negative signs and symptoms. Among the circumstances which help in the formation of a diagnosis may be enumerated the history of the occurrence of foetal death in a previous preg- nancy in the same patient; the presence of syphilis or of some acute febrile or infectious disease, or the incidence of a traumatism, and, in a word, the existence of any well-known cause of foetal death; the presence of various vague maternal sensations, such as a feeling of cold- ness and weight in the pelvis, absence of foetal movements, especially following upon a period of unduly active movements ; diminution in the size of the abdomen and uterus, retrogressive changes in the mammary glands and abdomen, occurrence of passing labour pains, impossibility of hearing the foetal heart and of detecting foetal movements; the disappearance of various grave symptoms, such as vomiting and albumin- uria, which had been in evidence before the death of the foetus; and, finally, it is possible that the occurrence of acetonuria and pepton- uria may assist in the making of a provisional diagnosis. The treatment of intra-uterine death is intimately associated with the treatment of the causes of it (maternal, paternal, and foetal). As a matter of experience, the birth of a dead foetus does not seem to be attended with much danger, a fact which is explicable by the aseptic nature of the post-mortem change and by the involuntary changes in the placenta and uterine walls which usually precede the expulsion of the infant. Affections of the Generative Organs I. Malformations of Uterus and Vagina 265 II. Abnormalities in Position and Re- lations ..... 266 Hernia, Procidentia, Versions and Flexions, Anteversion, Pendu- lous Abdomen, Retroversion, In- carceration, Irreducible Retro- displacement, Sacculation III. Pathological Changes . . . 269 Cancer, Fibroid Tumours, Ovar- ian Tumours in Pregnancy The coiu-se of pregnancy and of labour may be seriously aiTected by anomalous conditions of the uterus and vagina due to defects of develop- ment, to abnormal positions of the organs, and