QUARANTINE 453 cargo, although there had been no sickness on board the vessel. The last Quarantine Act was that of 1824, which placed the whole system in the hands of the Privy Council, and though subsequently the actual working was carried out by Her Majesty's Customs, it remained in their hands till its final abolition by the Public Health Amend- ment Act, 1896. But for a long period it had been in abeyance, remaining only on the statute book in order to avoid interference with our shipping by foreign powers. While nominally the power was in the hands of the Privy Council, who had no machinery for the purpose, the actual work of protection of the country against infection from abroad was under the control of the port sani- tary authorities and their medical officers. Port sanitary authorities were first constituted by the Public Health Act of 1872, and their powers have been slowly but gradually extended. In 1893, at the International Sanitary Congress, when Great Britain was so ably represented by the late Sir E,ichard Thome Thorne, the question advanced one great step. To his able advocacy of medical inspection as a substitute for quarantine, involving as it does the consideration of the health of the crew of a vessel and the sanitary condition of the vessel itself, rather than the health of the port from whence she has come, this conference in a great measure owed its successful resvilts. All the great European Powers finally agreed to the convention. The main points were, that in the case of " infected " vessels the sick were to be removed to hospital, the healthy landed for observation for a period not exceeding five days, and the vessel disinfected. "Suspected" vessels were to be subject to medical inspection, and disinfection of such articles as considered necessary; drinking water to be changed, and the bilges disinfected. " Healthy " vessels were to be admitted to free "pratique" whatever the nature of their bills of health. An "infected vessel" was defined as one on which a case had occurred within seven days of arrival, while a " suspected " vessel was one on which cases had occurred on the voyage, but not within seven days. Sir Richard Thorne Thorne, agreeing to the above on behalf of this country, expressly stipu- lated that observation should not necessarily imply detention, but that this would be covered by registration and notification of the addresses of all persons on board such vessels. In 1896 the Public Health Amendment Act finally abolished quarantine, and placed the whole system of medical inspection in the hands of port sanitary authorities under the control of the Local Government Board. A Local Govern- ment Board order soon followed, defining the powers of port sanitary authorities and regulat- ing their procedure. This order, though modi- fied in several details, still practically governs the system. It defines an "infected" vessel as one on which cholera, yellow fever, or plague has occurred during the voyage, or during the stay of a vessel in the port of departure, or in a port on the course of such voyage. The officer of customs who visits the vessel, if he has any reason to suspect the vessel to be so infected, has power to detain her, and must give notice to the Medical Officer of Health, who shall thereupon visit her. There is, however, an important section which gives power to the medical officer to visit any vessel for the purpose of ascertaining if she is infected, whether she has been visited by the customs officer or not. Under this section the Medical Officer of Health can visit every vessel coming from an infected port. The only satisfactory method of working this system is in conjunction with the customs oificer at the appointed boarding station. In this way all the necessary precautions for the protection of the public health can be taken without hampering commerce by requiring an incoming vessel to be detained for two separate visits. This means, if properly worked, that a Medical Officer of Health must be always on duty, and accompany the customs officers on their visit for fiscal and statistical purposes. In the port of London this is carried out by having a special staff" of boarding medical officers who are on duty in turn for twenty-four hours every third day. Whether on his own initiative or informed by the customs officer, the medical ofiicer visits a a suspected vessel and examines it. If he finds the vessel to be infected, he serves a certificate to that effect on the master, who thereupon must moor his vessel in such place as required, and must carry out the instructions of the medical officer. No person may leave the vessel till he has been medically examined ; those found to be suffering from cholera, yellow fever, or plague are removed to hospital under the con- trol of the medical officer, any suspected cases being detained for any period not exceeding two days for the purposes of diagnosis. All those found healthy are required to furnish their names and addresses at their intended places of destination, and are then allowed to leave. These names and addresses are forwarded to the sanitary authorities of the places of destination concerned, and thus afford each authority an opportunity of keeping itself in- formed as to the health of such persons for so long a period as may be considered advisable. By the terms of the order, the vessel and all effects are disinfected by the master of the vessel in accordance with the instructions of the medi- cal officer, though in practice the disinfection is at once carried out by the officers of the sanitary authority. There are also special powers to deal with