eye stimulates the endings of the sympathetic, and also contracts the vessels, thus producing dilatation of the pupil. Atropine also stimu- lates the dilator pupillse, but also paralyses the endings of the third nerve in the sphincter pupillse, causing the most extreme form of mydriasis. Eserine and pilocarpine, on the other hand, produce myosis by stimulation of the endings of the third nerve. In post- diphtheritic and alcoholic neuritis the pupils may be somewhat sluggish to light. Opium, again, causes contraction of the pupil in most stages of its action, and chronic opium-takers may sometimes be detected by means of their pin-point pupils. Chloroform anaesthesia also causes contraction of the pupils in proportion to the degree of antesthesia up to a certain point, beyond which rapid dilata- tion occurs from paralysis of the pupil-contract- ing centre. Deep sleep similarly produces contracted pupils by means of cessation of tonic action of the pupil - dilating centre. Psychical states in general react on the pupil through its centres in the pons, and the pupil may be seen to vary rapidly in size in different stages of emotion, anger contracting the pupil, and love causing dilatation, according to Sir Samuel Wilks. In proof of the effect of anger in contracting the pupil he quotes the contrac- tion of the pupils that occurs in a parrot which has been annoyed. This case is, however, not comparable to that of man, for the parrot has voluntary power over the contraction and dilatation of the iris, and atropine has no effect in dilating its pupil. In hysteria and neur- asthenia the pupils may be slightly unequal, though some inequality is often physiological, and in hysteroid states oscillations of the pupil, known as hippus, may be met with. This condition may also be met with in epileptics. A certain amount of rhythmic oscillation of the pupil is normal after exposure to light, strong contraction at first being succeeded by slight dilatation, the size of the pupil oscillating until it comes finally to rest in the contracted state. This is produced by the initial contrac- tion shutting out a large proportion of the light entering the eye, and thus diminishing the stimulus; hence the succeeding dilatation, which again lets in more light, which again causes contraction. Occasionally a condition known as the paradoxical pupil reaction is seen, in which, under the stimulus of a strong light, though the pupil at first contracts, the succeeding oscillations are followed by consider- able dilatation, which persists in spite of the continuance of the stimulus of the light falling on the retina. This paradoxical pupil reaction may be met with in the early stages of general paralysis of the insane, and, if well marked, will be therefore of bad prognosis. In the elucidation of nervous diseases the condition of the pupil is often of the utmost I, THE 435 importance, and it is therefore necessary to have a knowledge of the minute anatomy of the pupil - reflex arcs for contraction and dilatation, as well as of these centres. The light reflex, starting from the retina, passes up special fine fibi'es in the optic nerve, which undergo a semi-decussation at the chiasma like the visual fibres, passes up the optic tract of each side, and leaves the tract just anterior to the external geniculate body, passing by the anterior brachium to the grey matter of the anterior corpus quadrigeminum, where the fibres must make connection with nerve-cells, since ascending degeneration resulting from lesion of the optic tract cannot be traced farther than the grey matter on the surface of the corpus quadrigeminum. From this point to the third nerve-nucleus lying beneath the floor of the anterior end of the aqueduct its course is not certainly known, but in all probability it passes by means of Meynert's fountain decussation to the third nuclei of the same and of the opposite sides. The anterior end of the nucleus is specialised as the sphincter pupillte centre, and it is generally supposed that the centres of the two sides are united by commissural fibres. From the nucleus the efferent part of the reflex arc is the third nerve, ciliary ganglion, and short ciliary nerves to the iris. Lesions of any portion of this reflex arc will have the effect of abolish- ing the pupil reflex, whether the endings of the third nerves are paralysed by atropine or in disease of the optic nerve. Owing, however, to the semi-decussation of the fibres at the optic chiasma, and perhaps also to the commissural union of the centres in the third nucleus, there is a consensual reaction of both pupils when only one is exposed to light. By means of test- ing both the direct and consensual reflex to light in each pupil separately, much information may be gained both as to the site of a lesion causing blindness, and of one producing loss of the light reflex. For example, in optic atrophy of one eye following gunshot injury of the orbit, light thrown on the blind eye will not produce con- traction of either pupil, but light thrown on the good eye will cause brisk and equal contraction of both pupils, since the stimulus can pass up both optic tracts, and both third nuclei are affected. Both pupils will also contract equally on convergence. In such a case there is there- fore loss of consensual pupil reflex to light in the good eye, whereas the consensual reflex is unimpaired in the blind eye. In such a case the injury must lie in the afferent portion of the reflex arc, and further, it must lie between the retina and the optic chiasma, since a lesion of the optic tract does not abolish the direct pupil reflex in one eye completely, but will affect the corresponding halves of both retinte, producing the phenomenon known as the hemiopic pupil of Wernicke. When light is focussed on the antesthetic half of either retina no pupil reaction