107 PLAGUE information. It is said to have started in Eastern Asia, and to have spread to Asia Minor, Northern Africa, and Europe, reaching the Crimea in 1346 ; by 1349 and 1350 it had overrun the whole continent of Europe. Hecker estimates the loss of life in this pandemic at 25 millions, about a quarter of the then popula- tion of Europe. Plague, with which is probably included several other epidemic diseases, con- tinued to be prevalent in Europe throughout the fifteenth, sixteenth, seventeenth (in which occurred the Great Plague of London), and eighteenth centuries, sometimes aflf'ecting small areas, at other times in the form of a pandemic. Towards the latter part of the seventeenth century plague appeared to be gradually re- treating from Europe, and from the middle of the eighteenth century only the south-eastern parts of the continent were permanent seats of the disease. In the nineteenth century plague was epidemic in this portion of the continent from time to time till 1841, when, with the exception of an outbreak in 1879 in Astrakhan on the borders of Asia, plague disappeared from Europe till the localised epidemics which have occurred during the last few years. Several endemic centimes of plague have been recognised throughout the world, most of them for a long period, the chief of them being as follows:— (1) The district of Assyr, in Arabia, on the eastern shore of the Red Sea. (2) Portions of Persia and Mesopotamia. (3) Southern China, especially the province of Yun-nan on the Tibet frontier. (4) The districts of Kumaon and Garhwal, Upper India, on the southern slopes of the Himalayas. (5) The district of Kisiba (German East Africa), and an adjoining locality situated in the south of the province of Uganda, to the west of Lake Victoria Nyanza. (6) The Transbailtal Province, Eastern Si- beria, and Mongolia. (7) More recently Dr. Thiroux has added the Island of Reunion, where he alleges that plague, locally known as Lymphangite infectieuse, has existed in a mild form for many years. The present history of plague distribution starts from the year 1894, when the disease assumed a new phase. Previous to this, plague had for a long period been confined to the nomadic tribes in Northern Persia and Central Asia, the Arabs in Assyr, and the Bedouins in Mesopotamia. The fresh characteristic which plague then assumed was to attack large and populous cities in Southern China and India, such as Canton, Hong-Kong (1894), and Bombay (1896). Travelling down to Canton from Yun- nan, near Tibet, the disease spread to Hong- Kong and thence to Bombay. From Hong- Kong and Canton many parts of China have become infected, and from Bombay plague has spread over a considerable portion of the Indian peninsula; in 1902 the epidemic wave extended over districts in India never before infected during the present pandemic, and as many as 80,000 cases and 61,000 deaths from plague have been reported from the Punjab in a single month (March). Since 1897 Japan, the Philip- pines, Honolulu, Madagascar, British East Africa, Aden, Mauritius, Australia, South America, and South Africa have sufifered, and nearer home Oporto, Alexandria, Port Said, as well as other towns, have become infected. Cases are con- tinually being reported from the Levantine cities, and these, together with the repeated cases of the disease occurring on board ships arriving in European ports, make plague a very distinct danger to this country. Localised out- breaks, fortunately on a very small scale, have already occurred in Glasgow and Liverpool, but were soon suppressed by the authorities. The geographical distribution of plague at the present time, together with a history of recent epidemics, is considered at length in a special plague volume just issued by the Medical Officer to the English Local Government Board. 4. Modes of Entry and Means of Spread A. Modes of Entry.—Plague may enter the body in three ways, by—(1) Inoculation; (2) Inhalation; (3) Ingestion. (1) Inoculation. — The commonest mode of entry of the plague bacillus into the body is by the skin. This probably does not take place through unbroken skin, but through abrasions of various sorts, such as wounds, scratches, etc., and the bites or stings of insects. It is not necessary to suppose that the insect itself intro- duces the infection, but it is probable that this may enter through the bite, either by being already on the skin when the insect bites, or by subsequent contamination of the wound. The irritation of the bite may sometimes pro- duce scratching, which may be done with an infected finger, and in this way inoculation may occvir. The rings worn on the toes in India and elsewhere, which are often associated with the presence of sores on the toes, may create a channel of entry for plague infection. In con- nection with this fact, however, it must be noted that it is the inguinal and femoral glands of those, such as Europeans, who usually go abovit booted which are chiefly affected. The Indian Plague Commission, in investi- gating this point, found that there was a re- lation between the area of skin sui'face draining into a particular set of glands and the frequency with which those glands were affected. They found that while the areas of skin surfaces which drain respectively into the neck, axilla, and groin stand to one another approximately as 1 : 1 "8 : 5, the hospital statistics at their disposal showed that the relation between the numbers of primary buboes in the cervical,