PUERPERIUM, PHYSIOLOGY OF 348 Peripheral Neuritis {Puerperal Neuritis); Pulse (Arterial Pressure in Puerperal Eclampsia). Physiology B. I. Changes in the Maternal System Physiology of the Puerperium 348 1. Temperature and Skin 348 2. Circulatory and Respiratory Sys- tems ..... 349 3. Digestive System .... 351 4. Excretory System 351 5. Nervous System .... 353 6. Lactation ..... 353 7. The Lochia ..... 354 Changes in the Pelvic Organs {Involu- tion) ..... 355 1. TAe Uterus 355 (a) Clinical Features 355 (6) Anatomical Features 356 i. Macroscopic . 356 ii. Microscopic 357 2, The Uterine Appendages and Liga- ments ..... 358 3. y%e Vagina .... 358 4. Bladder .... 358 5. Abdominal Walls . 359 6. Evidences of Recent Delivery 359 II Management op the Puerperium 1. First Duties: the Binder: After- pains ..... 359 2. Cleanliness: Douching 360 3. Diet . . . \ 360 4. Regulation of the Bladder and Bowels ..... 361 5. The Breasts: Nu?-sing . 361 6. Examinatio7i of the Pelvic Organs 362 7. Getting up and going out 362 The puerperium is the period of recovery from childbirth, and is also known as the "lying-in." It may be said to begin with the expulsion of the placenta, and to comprise clinically the first month and anatomically the first six weeks after delivery. It possesses a twofold interest: from the physiological and anatomical stand- point, remarkable changes in the maternal system supervene on the completion of labour; from the clinical standpoint, the management of the puerperium requires the most careful attention, in order to shield the patient from present danger and to avert harmful results in the future. This natural division of the subject will be followed here, on the lines of the index. I. Changes in the Maternal System The rapid transition from the condition of carrying and nourishing a child in utero, with the modifications of nutrition, circulation, and excretion entailed thereby, to the condition in which mother and child have an independent existence, has a marked influence on the whole maternal system ; and this influence is accentu- ated by the changes incidental to the progress of involution and the establishment of lactation. A. Physiology of the Puerperium.—The be- ginning of the puerperivim is characterised by the effects of the eff'ort of labour. Fatigue, which may amount to prostration, is combined with the feeling of rest and relief following exertion and pain; the skin, pulse, and tem- perature testify to the recent muscular effoi-ts, and the patient is usually content to lie in a condition of bodily and mental inactivity. The immediate and later systemic changes now de- mand our consideration. 1. Temperature and Skin.—Immediately after delivery there is a rise of temperature, which is usually slight, but which varies with the char- acters of the labour, and especially with its duration. From some observations on 600 cases at the General Lying-in Hospital, made for the purpose of ascertaining what relationship existed, I found (1) that the duration of the first stage of labour has only a slight influence on the sub- sequent temperature, except in those cases where the membranes rupture very early; when this occurs, and the first stage lasts one or several days, the temperature after delivery is often high, even when the second stage is rapid. (2) The influence of the duration of the second stage is more marked; the longer the second stage, the higher is the temperature after labour. The time of day at which delivery takes place has a slight influence on the temperature, but less than is attributed to it by Schroeder. To estimate this factor under conditions as similar as possible, I analysed 300 normal cases of multipara} in which the second stage of labour lasted less than an hour. Dividing the twenty- four hours into periods of four hours each, 50 cases were taken of delivery within each period, and the average temperature in each group of 50 cases was obtained, coming out as follows :— Hour of delivery: 12 night to 4 a.m. : Temp. 99° 4 A.M. to 8 A.M.: ,, 98'6° 8 a.m. to 12 noon: ,, 98-6° 12 noon to 4 P.M.: ,, 98-7° 4 P.M. to 8 P.M. : „ 98-9° 8p.M.tol2night: „ 98-6° After the administration of chloroform during labour the subsequent temperature is relatively low, even when the second stage has lasted long, and has been terminated by forceps. The temperature during the remainder of the lying-in period presents no diff"erence, in normal cases, from that of an ordinary healthy person. It was formerly taught that during the first twelve hours the temperature rises, that it falls during the next twelve hours, and that, after remaining stationary thereafter for twenty-four hours, there is a second rise, corresponding to the development of lactation. This rise was said to last two days, and to then give way to the ordinary temperature, which was somewhat higher than that of perfectly healthy persons,