PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—DISEASES OF PLACENTA AND CORD 251 when the serotina is intact. There is no uni- formity about their size and shape ; the largest appear to involve an entire cotyledon; there may be many small ones scattered through an otherwise healthy placenta. Under the micro- scope the hsemorrhagic areas are seen to consist mainly of blood-clot in which are scattered a few atrophied or distorted villi; the villi are more numerous at the margins than in the csntre of the haemorrhage. It may be objected that such a condition as this is not haemorrhage, because the blood is still contained in the inter- villous spaces and has not escaped from its normal channels. But it differs from mere con- gestion or engorgement of vessels, inasmuch as the surrounding structures (villi) are disturbed, and in part destroyed, by the process. Except in a technical sense, it is interstitial haemorrhage. These haemorrhages do not affect the functional activity of the placenta to an extent sufficient to react unfavourably upon the foetus. It is quite possible that they are produced during labour by the influence of the uterine contrac- tions upon the maternal circulation through the placenta. A case has been recently reported by Dr. Blacker, in which an extensive haemorrhage of this kind occurred in a very young placenta, from cardiac disease, without inducing abortion or causing the death of the foetus. (b) Large effusions of blood into the placenta are much rarer than the interstitial haemor- rhages just described. Such effusions are prob- ably produced more rapidly, and therefore break Tip the placental tissue to a much greater extent than the interstitial ones. In consequence, irregular cavities containing blood-clot are formed in the substance of the placenta, limited in recent cases by compressed and broken villi, and in older cases by layers of fibrin forming a false cyst wall. In some of these cases the haemorrhage is foetal from ruptui-e of a branch of the umbilical vein or artery in the placental tissue, and sometimes the cavity communicates with the circular sinus (maternal). After ac- cumulating in the placental substance the blood may burst through the serotina, causing some separation from the uterine wall; such an occurrence might cause external haemorrhage. The foetus is born dead when haemorrhages of this kind exist in the placenta. If abortion does not immediately follow its occurrence the effused blood undergoes the usual changes from clotting, absorption, or partial organisation and degeneration. The causes of large placental haemorrhages are by no means fully known. In a case observed by the writer the mother suffered from albuminuria during pregnancy, and the portions of the placenta unaffected by the haemorrhage showed extensive pathological in- farction, as is so commonly the case in albumin- uria. But the whole subject of placental heemorrhage still requires a great deal of sys- tematic work. (Edema.—Oedema of the placenta usually results from disturbances of the foetal circulation or changes in the foetal blood, and is therefore associated with general oedema of the foetus, and due to the same causes as this condition. Cases of maternal dropsy have also been recorded in which the placenta was oedematous : in these cases the cause would appear to be maternal; but more often placental oedema is due to a foetal cause. Instances may be found of ob- struction to the arterial return from the placenta by antenatal closure of the foramen ovale, or thrombosis of the vimbilical and hypogastric vessels before birth, in which both the placenta and the foetus were oedematous. The placenta of acardiac monsters is also frequently oedematous. Within recent years several cases of foetal and placental dropsy have been carefully re- corded, in which there was present a marked excess of leucocytes in the foetal blood ; in one of these cases, recorded by Liefart, the mother suffered from albuminuria and dropsy, which rapidly cleared up after labour. Possibly in these cases the morbid condition of the foetal blood was due to the increased toxicity of the maternal blood, which has been shown to exist in the albuminuria of pregnancy. Virchow and Franck have observed that in general dropsy of the foetus of bovine animals the thoracic duct and mesenteric lymphatics are often absent, but this point does not appear to have been inves- tigated in the human foetus. An oedematous placenta is larger and heavier than normal, and undergoes a great diminu- tion in weight when incised and drained of fluid. The normal weight of the organ is 16 ounces; in the case reported by Liefart the oedematous placenta weighed 67 ounces. In colour it is pale, and in consistence unusually friable and soft. Microscopically the villi are found enormously increased in size and closely packed together, so that the size of the inter- villous spaces is much reduced, and they there- fore contain comparatively little blood. Many of the foetal vessels are thickened or throm- bosed, and the stroma of the villi is poor in cells and contains abundant fluid in its spaces. Frequently marked fatty degeneration of the chronic epithelium is also present. Usually the foetus dies in wtei'o, although this event is not by any means of invariable occur- rence. Oedema most seriously impairs the functional capacity of the placenta, but as it is never idiopathic we cannot tell precisely what effect it exerts upon the nutrition of the foetus. The morbid conditions associated with it may be sufficient to destroy the foetus. Pathological Infarction.—It has already been stated that during the last two months of intra- uterine life certain changes referable to senility occur in the foetal placenta, resulting in the formation of small solid bodies in the spongy placental substance termed " infarcts." Under