PUBERTY 344 and with the development of mind and body to the highest perfection possible to the individual. Signs of Puberty.—In boys the "breaking" of the voice is one of the earliest signs of puberty. A boy's singing voice usually re- sembles a woman's soprano, but the note is less flute-like, more vibrant, and of clarionet quality. At puberty the larynx elongates, the vocal cords are at first relaxed, the voice is for a time hoarse. Then readjustment takes place, and the man's voice appears, usually an octave lower than the boy's. The speaking voice goes through similar changes; it becomes hoarse, and finally much deeper than in childhood. Concurrently the external genitalia grow and become more vascu- lar. A considerable development of hair takes place on the face and pubes, and in a less degree on the ai'ms and chest. Connected with this is a great development of the sebaceous glands of the skin, leading in many cases to an eruption of acne on the face and shoulders. In girls menstruation is usually the first and most important sign of puberty. It occurs normally at varying ages from 11 to 16. As a rule it appears about 13. Within what may be called normal limits its early appearance is a sign of vigour, its postponement a sign of re- tarded and imperfect development, or of poor nutrition. Women of the best physical type are generally in advance of their age in youth and behind it in middle life. Menstruation in them begins early, it is painless and moderately profuse, and it lasts till 50. It is quite excep- tional for menstruation to be painful for the first year or more of its occurrence. Dysmenorrhoea usually begins eighteen months or more after the first appearance of the catamenial loss. For a time, in most young girls, menstruation is the only sign of any considerable physiological change. They are still children in thought, feeling, and tastes. It is difficult to determine how much of the gradual change from childhood to adolescence is really due to the changed con- dition of the organs of the reproductive system, or how much of it ought rather to be attributed to the development of the nervous system gener- ally and to the increasing influences of education and social and family life. In the opinion of the present writer a good deal of exaggeration is present in the writings of physiologists on this point. Girls of 14 and 15 are not, as a rule, troubled with anything that can be called sexual feelings. They are practically as free from them as they are at 7 or 8. Moreover, in the small minority of young women under observation who have never menstruated, and who presumably have either no ovaries or very undeveloped ovaries, the writer has not been able to recognise anything exceptional in their demeanour, in their desire for sympathy, affec- tion, or admiration, or in their appreciation of pretty garments. If the entire mental organi- sation of women were based upon sexual develop- ment, as some writers would have us believe, women who are without the most important part of the reproductive system ought to be much more unlike other women than they actually are. Similarly, in the curious type of women who may fairly be called " masculine " —the women who are genuinely, and from no affectation of their own, really like men in their habits of mind, their virtues and their defects —the writer has not been able to trace anything abnormal on the sexual side of their bodily development. On this side they are real women; on every other side they closely re- semble men. It has to be admitted that the resemblance is a genuine one, and not the result of any "apeing" of men. Many women of this curious type have done their utmost to be ultra-feminine in dress, etc. We all re- member Sydney Smith's inquiry, " Who is the gentleman in white muslin on the sofa'?" in reference to a well-known woman who strove through a long life to be like the sex she belonged to physiologically, but not mentally. If the feminine qualities and characteristics are based solely upon the sexual organisation it is difficult to understand cases where mind, general formation of body, and temperament seem to belong to one sex, and the special dis- tinguishing organs of sex to the other. They seem to suggest that the connection between the sexual system and the bodily and mental characteristics usually accompanying it may be less direct and immediate than is commonly supposed. In the two above-mentioned groups of what may be called " freaks" women are feminine without the fundamental feminine organs, or they are essentially masculine in spite of possessing them. Some correlation, which usually connects the sexual type of mind and body with the sexual organs, seems to be absent. Precocious and Retarded Puberty. —Puberty is occasionally precocious in both sexes. In boys very marked precocity has often been part of general imperfection, both mental and bodily, as in Dr. Campbell's and Dr. Wood's cases. In girls it is not rare for menstruation to appear long before the usual date of puberty. In many of these cases the phenomena of menstruation stand alone and are not accompanied with other signs of precocious maturity. Children of from 1 to 7 years of age have had regularly recur- ring menstrual loss without any obvious abnor- mality of development. In another class of case, however, there has been seen very remark- able growth and size with development of the breasts and labia, and then precocious men- struation. Here there has been a physiological anomaly of development of which the pre- cocious menstruation was but a part and a sign. Dr. Morse, of Harvard, has collected and published 30 cases of these two groups of pre- cocious children. Among these there was one