405 PULSE, THE hold that the conditions necessary for the pro- duction of the dicrotic wave are absent in early Fig. 47.- -Another form of pseudo-monocrotic pulse. The dicrotic wave is greatly exaggerated. life. These conditions, they say, are elasticity of the great vessels combined with low tension Fig. 48.- -Hyperdicrotic pulse becoming monocrotic from increased rapidity. of the peripheral circulation, and a sharp con- traction of the heart. In the infant they FlO. 49.—Pulse of the new-born infant (Ozanam). (Incorrectly called monocrotic.) believe that, owing to the relatively less strong heart, the arteries are not distended to such an Fig. 50.—Pulse of an infant after lisature of the umbilical cord. (Indicates a relatively high blood pressure.) extent as to cause a thorough recoil, and, further, that there is a marked resistance to the peripheral circulation in the kidney. The writer's tracings fi'om the pulse of in- fants do not show an absence of dicrotism, and the pulse-ciirve does not indicate a low arterial pressure. Sphygmograms made in the manner already described show clearly that the pulse of young infants is of the type associated with a i-elatively high blood pressure (Figs. 50, 52, and 53). Dicrotism is as marked in the sphygmogram of the new-born infant as it is in any high-pressure pulse. A tracing was obtained from the posterior tibial artery of a foetus during the process of " turning," and in it the position of the dicrotic notch is clearly indicated (Fig. 51). Even before birth, then, the pulse-curve would seem to be marked off in this way into systolic and diastolic portions, when we employ suitable means of instrumental examin- ation. The sphygmogram shown in Fig. 52, which was taken from a healthy boy six days old, brings out clearly all the features which characterise a high-pressure pulse- tracing in an adult. The systolic wave rises in a slanting direction, and the di- crotic notch occupies a high position on the down-stroke. The instrumental division of the systolic wave into two summits is just apparent in some of the curves, but in the tracing, Fig. 53, from an older child it is very well marked. To find the explanation of this high-pressure type of curve, which is characteristic of the very young infant, attention may be directed to the striking resemblance which exists between it and that obtained in aortic stenosis in the adult. The tracing from a premature infant, and some which I have taken from babies a few hours after birth (Fig. 54), compare equally Fig. 51. -Tracing from the posterior tibial artery of a foetus (Shows the dicrotic notch e.) well with those from a case of aortic stenosis, and perhaps still better with the type obtained from some cases of aneurysm affecting the arch of the aorta. The analogy to the latter is a specially apt one, because the conditions giving rise to this form of pulse-wave in both instances are remarkably similar. We refer to the rela- tion which exists between the size of the heart and the width of the aorta, and also to the fact that there is relatively less blood in the arterial system, and hence a smaller pulse at the wrist. Beneke has shown that the volume of the in- Fio. 52.—Pulse of a normal infant 6 days old. (Indicates a relatively high arterial blood pressure.) fant's heart is to the width of its ascending aorta as 25 :50, whereas before puberty it be- comes as 140: 50. There is thus in both con-