PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF—DISEASES OF PLACENTA AND CORD 25S exceedingly small. It has been shown to occur, however, in women affected with chronic pulmonary phthisis, or with acute miliary tuberculosis. Cases occurring under both of these conditions have been recorded by Schmorl and Kockel, Lehmann, and Londe. Placental tubercle possesses the same general characters as tubercle of other organs. The nodules are found in the substance of the cotyledons more often than upon the surface, and are more abundant in the marginal than in the central parts. They are usually firm and fibrous in texture, but sometimes caseating. Under the microscope they are seen to contain characteristic giant cells, and tubercle bacilli can be recognised by the visual differential staining reactions. Inoculation experiments upon rabbits and guinea-pigs show that the bacilli are active. Schmorl describes the tubercles as occupying two distinct positions in his cases ; usually they were upon the surface of the villi, encroaching upon or obliterating the adjacent intervillous space. Sometimes, however, they were situated in the stroma of the villus, the surface epithelium covering it being intact. In almost all the recorded cases the maternal disease was so advanced that the mother died either during labour or very soon afterwards. In the six cases recorded by Schmorl, and Kockel, and Lehmann, the foetus died soon after birth, and a post-mortem examination was made. In only one case, however, was tubercle found in the foetal organs, and in this case there were characteristic deposits found in the lungs, liver, spleen, and left kidney, and microscopically the tubercle bacillus was readily recognised. In all the other cases, not only could no tubercle be found in the body of the foetus, but inoc- ulation experiments were also attended by negative results. The blood from the tubercular placenta was, on the other hand, usually in- fective. From these facts it would appear that the foetus is to a certain extent protected from infection from the maternal blood by the placenta, the organisms being detained there as in a filter. In only one of the recorded cases is it stated that the foetus died in utero before the onset of labour. The diagnosis of placental tubercle is im- possible except by the microscope. It does not destroy the foetus, and gives rise to no symptoms which can be recognised during life. Tumours of the Placenta.—New growths are among the rarest diseases which occur in the placenta. A Norwegian writer, Alin, succeeded in collecting records of 23 cases from the literature of all countries, and 6 other cases have been since reported, making a total of 29 in all. As reported by the various writers, these tumours numbered, myxo - fibroma (myxoma fibrosum, of Virchow), 14; fibroma, 5; angioma, 5; fibromyoma, 2; sarcoma, 3. Many of the earlier cases are, however, insufficiently reported, and the nature of the growth remains open to doubt. It will be noticed that all the above are varieties of connective tissue tumours; no new growth arising in epithelium appears to have ever been repoi'ted. The malignant uterine growth known as deciduoma malignum cannot be regarded as a tumour of the placenta, even if the current theory of its origin in foetal epithelial cells be accepted. Tumours of the placenta do not exert such a markedly unfavourable influence upon the foetus or the mother as might at first be supposed. Out of the 29 cases a living foetus was born in 25 ; the remaining 4 were born dead ; a foetal mortality of 1 in 7 cannot be regarded as a high mortality for a serious placental lesion. Labour was not unfavourably influenced in any case. The frequency with which myxo-fibroma occurs in the placenta is very marked in comparison with the other new growths; it is the only one which need be described in detail. Myxo-fibroma (myxoma fibrosum).—Although the commonest form of placental tumour it is a rare disease. It occurs as a firm, rounded swelling, usually in the substance of the placenta, and forming a protuberance upon both surfaces, or in the case of growths of smaller size, upon the maternal surface only. Less often the tumour forms a pedunculated mass attached to the maternal surface, and has a more or less definite branching arrange- ment. The foetal surface of the tumour is covered with the amnion, which may be stripped off it, showing that the membrane is not in- volved in the tumour. Often there is a distinct fibi'ous capsule, and occasionally there are multiple growths. The microscopic characters of the growth are not uniform, and are described in very different terms by different writers. In the main it appeal's to consist of altered villi. The villi are enormously enlarged—upon this point there is practical unanimity—by increase of their stroma. The characters of the altered stroma appear to vary, but speaking generally, the change is one of myxomatous and fibrous new formation, the relative proportions of the myxomatous and fibrous tissues being variable. The chorionic epithelium does not alter, and is often retained upon the enlarged villi. Some- times the vessels of the affected villi are much enlarged, forming the variety of the growth called myxoma fibrosum telangiectodes. The growth is of course benign in all cases, and the parts of the placenta not involved in it are healthy. Diseases of the Membranes. — Decidual Endometritis.—This condition is a disease of the early ovum, affecting the decidua in all parts, and occurring at a period prior to the formation of the placenta. Two distinct forms are described, viz., the glandular and the