350 PUERPERIUM, PHYSIOLOGY OF day after delivery, rising about 10 beats a day till it returned to normal. Two of the cases were multiparse, and one a primipara. He mentioned that he had seen many other cases of this phenomenon, of which he was unable to offer any explanation. M'Clintock, in 1861, stated that, in a large proportion of cases of normal convalescence, the pulse scarcely devi- ated at all from the standard of health : with the reaction succeeding to the shock of par- turition, and with the coming of the milk, there might be a rise of a few beats; but even this temporary acceleration was more frequently absent than present. He continually met with cases in which the pulse did not exceed 72 all through childbed; and many other cases he had met with where it was as low as 60, 54, 48, and even 44. But this morbid slowness he regarded as constitutional, and not depending on any condition peculiar to childbed ; and he added that these patients recovered well. A more detailed study of the question was made by Blot in 1864. The following is a resume of some of his conclusions :—Slowing of the pulse is generally observed in healthy lying- in women. The patients on whom he made his observations had, apart from the puerperal state, an ordinary physiological pulse-rate. Most frequently the pulse-rate oscillates between 44 and 60; three times he saw it fall to 35. The slowing is not influenced by diet, by uterine contractions, or by the duration of the preced- ing labour; and it persists during the time often improperly described as that of " milk- fever." It is more often found in multiparse. It generally begins in the first twenty-four hours after labour; becomes more pronounced, then remains stationary, and finally disappears gradually. The duration of the slowing is usually from 10 to 12 days. It is a very favourable prognostic sign. It is not to be explained by nervous exhaustion, for sphygmographic obser- vations undertaken in conjunction with Marey showed that it is related to the increase in arterial tension which follows labour. Louge, whose conclusions agree in the main with those of Blot, describes three types of the puerperal pulse: in the first type it oscillates between 72 and 80, and is never slower; in the second the general rate is 72 to 80, but it may drop at times to 60 or 58, returning to the normal; in the third type the pulse becomes gradually slower, till it oscillates between 46 and 50, the maximum slowing being on the seventh day. Olshausen found that in 348 cases the pulse- rate was as follows :— Over 60 in 128 cases, or 36'8 per cent 51-60 in 164 „ 47-1 41-50 in 53 „ 15-3 40 or under in 3 ,, 0'8 „ Hence a pulse below 60 was found in 63 per cent of cases. Falaschi described it as occurring in 25 per cent of cases; Louge found it in 33 per cent of multiparse, and in 25 per cent of primiparse. Blot, on the other hand, considered it to be the general rule. The above conclu- sions have become crystallised in the teaching of most of the text-books of midwifery. Thus Spiegelberg says: " The pulse-rate, which had increased during labour, diminishes immediately after it, then rises again, and on the second, third, or fourth day becomes markedly slowed. The rate then varies between 44 and 70; indeed, a frequency of less than 40, even of 30, has been noticed ; the usual figures are 44, 48, and 56." Within the last few years the older teach- ing has been challenged, notably by Probyn- Williams and Cutler, and by Heil. From an investigation on 100 cases at the General Lying- in Hospital, Probyn-Williams and Cutler found that the average pulse-rate during the puer- perium was never lower than 72, and was often nearer 80 than 70; not one case presented features corresponding to the above description by Spiegelberg. On examining the records of 20 cases at Queen Charlotte's Hospital, their conclusions were confirmed. Their 100 cases presented the somewhat curious feature that the pulse-rate was higher in the morning than in the evening. Heil's investigations also com- prised 100 cases ; he found that in only 12 per cent of cases was the pulse-rate less by at least 10 beats during the Ij^ing-in than during preg- nancy. He concludes that it cannot be ad- mitted that there is during the puerperium a physiological retardation of the pulse to any- thing like the extent generally taught; for though the pulse may be slow, the same thing may occur during pregnancy or in ordinary health; it is in no way characteristic of the lying-in period. In the face of these conflicting views, Varnier set himself to investigate the matter afresh; and his observations led him to the conclusion that in 72 per cent of cases there was an undeniable slowing of the pulse during the lying-in. We must necessarily conclude from these diverging results that the pulse-rate dur- ing the puerperium presents great variations, depending no doubt in some degree on varying conditions of observation. Investigations on a more extended scale are required. For the present, the view that most nearly expresses the results of the majority may be considered to be this : that during the lyinfi-in period the pulse-rate is frequently lower than in the non- puerperal state, and almost always lower than during pregnancy; the most common 2}ulse-rate is 60 to 70, and the instances i7i which it is lower than 50 must be regarded as quite exceptional. Until slowing of the pulse has been un- equivocally demonstrated to be the general rule, it is perhaps futile to discuss at length the cause of such slowing. It will suffice to enumerate some of the views propounded.