199 POST-MORTEM METHODS examine, firstly, the Stomach and Duodenum. Note the size of the stomach and presence of thickenings in its walls. It is dilated in stricture of the pylorus, small in stricture of the cardiac orifice or in general scirrhus of its walls. Remove the ligature and allow the contents to flow out into some receptacle. These may be food, mucus, bile-stained material, clotted blood, or " coffee-grounds." For investigation of poisons, etc., refer to article on " Toxicology." Wash out the stomach and duodenum, and slit them open, the former along its greater curvature, the latter along its convexity. If a stricture be present, preserve it intact. Examine the mucous membrane of the stomach. Distinguish post-mortem digestion from gastric ulceration. The former occurs at the dependent part of the wall, hence usually at the cardiac end posteriorly. The walls become gradually thinned from digestion of the coats from within outwards, and if an opening exist in the centre of the thinned area, it has thin, frayed-out edges. Gastric ulcers are rounded, "punched out"j if chronic they possess thickened edges, and are most commonly met with near the lesser curvature on the posterior wall towards the pylorus. Their base is formed by submucous or muscular coat, or by some subjacent organ, such as pancreas, which the ulceration has exposed. Hcemorrhage may come from a gastric ulcer : from ulceration over varicose veins at the lower end of oesophagus—for example, in cirrhosis of the liver: from rupture of an aneurysm : from ulceration of a cancer: or the blood may have been swallowed. In acute gastric catarrh, the mucous membrane is congested, swollen, oedematous, and covered with tenacious mucus. In chronic gastric catarrh the walls are thickened, the rugae are prominent, and numerous rounded, mammillated prominences may be present. Tumours.—Papilloma at the cardiac orifice; tubular, hard and soft cancers at the orifices or in the body of the organ are met with. Tubular cancers are usually flat, the edges raised and slightly overhanging, their centres ulcerated. Hard cancers show great and firm thickening of the mucous and submucous coats, and hypertrophy of the muscular coats; they tend to contract. Soft cancers are characterised by their abrupt, thick, rampart-like edges, their fungation, soft consistence, and great tendency to ulcerate in the centre. Carcinoma of the stomach may undergo colloid degeneration. Squamous epithelioma may spread from the oesophagus to the cardiac end of the stomach. Duodenum.—Ulcers similar to those in the stomach are not unfrequently met with in the first part. Catarrhal inflammation shows characters similar to catarrh of the rest of the alimentary tract. Stricture may occur at the entrance of the biliary and pancreatic ducts; and tumour growth, non-malignant or malignant, may also occur there, the latter often as an extension from the head of the pancreas. Lay the liver on its upper surface and arrange the duodenum so that no kinking of the common bile-duct can take place, and by pressure on the gall-bladder endeavour to force bile downwards into the duodenum. If it do not pass, lay open the bile-ducts carefully throughout their whole length, and examine for stricture, compression by scar tissue or tumours, or for the presence of calculi blocking them. Next lay bare the pancreas from the front ; note its consistence, and any pronounced en- largement, then slice it longitudinally to deter- mine whether any tumour-growth be present, and transversely to determine the amount of fibrous tissue present. Note whether it be softened and hsemorrhagic (hsemorrhagic pan- creatitis) or show suppuration or gangrene. It is not necessary in ordinary cases to expose its duct. Occasionally the pancreas is found rup- tured in cases of abdominal injuries. The pancreas weighs from 3 to 4 ounces in the adult. The gastro-hepatic omentum may now be divided and the liver separated and examined. The Liver.—The normal average weight of the liver is 3 lb. 5 oz. in the male, and 2 lb. 12 oz. in the female. It measures transversely from 10 to 12 inches, antero-posteriorly from 6 to 8 inches, and its greatest thickness is from 3 to 5 inches. Relatively it is larger in the child than in the adult. It is of a chocolate colour, and its substance can be distinguished through the capsule, which is thin, smooth, and glistening. The lobules, which vai-y in size from Jg- to -2V of an inch, can be faintly distinguished. On the cut surface the openings of numerous large veins are seen. When laid on a plane surface the organ flattens out. Morbid Conditions.—The capsule may show localised or general fibrous thickening. The surface may show transverse or antero-posterior grooves, the result of compression, for example by corsets. The organ may be displaced from the same cause. It may be ruptured from injury. Degenerations and Infiltrations of the liver. Cloudy Swelling. — This usually occurs in death with high temperature. The organ is paler than normal, the capsule tense, the cut surface smooth and glistening, with the in- dividual lobules somewhat enlarged and outlined by a rather indefinite pale zone. Fatty Infiltration.—The organ is enlarged, brown or orange in colour, the consistence lessened, the individual lobule much increased