PUERPERIUM, PATHOLOGY OF 381 small exudation in the left parametrium. An enlargement of the uterus was also observed, but was supposed to be due to subinvolution. She had not long left her bed when she was obliged to return to it again in consequence of fever and pains in the right hypogastrium, where a tumour as large as a goose egg had formed in the neighbourhood of the iliac crest. It was soft and tender, and, being supposed to be an abscess, was incised, but no pus escaped. It consisted of a soft spongy substance, of which about a handful was removed, leaving a cavity at the bottom of which lay the bare and roughened bone. On microscopic examination this tissue showed large multinucleated round cells, with spindle cells and numerous apoplexies. Soon after this operation pulmonary symptoms set in, with cough and dyspnoea, and she died seven months from the commencement of her illness. On post-mortem examination the uterus was found to be infested with dark purple-red spongy nodules varying in size from that of a walnut to that of a large apple. The mucous membrane was smooth and nowhere perforated by the growths ; metastases were found in the iliac fossa, lungs, diaphragm, and ribs. The left lung was compressed by a hsematothorax ; microscopic examination of the uterine tumours showed numerous apoplexies, large nucleated round cells, and cells resembling decidual giant cells, suggesting the idea that here was a new growth of the decidua belonging to the group sarcomata which had never before been described. Clinical Features.—The clinical features of this disease are thus summed up by Sanger :— 1. A birth, abortion, or hydatidiform mole followed by— 2. Constant or repeated haemorrhages. 3. After this, and generally following an ex- amination or intra-uterine manipulation, putrid discharges with fever. 4. Increasing size and irregular shape of the uterus. 5. Rapidly progressing and towards the close intensely marked anaemia. 6. Recognisable metastases, especially in the vagina. 7. Cough, dyspnoea, bloody expectoration, and other symptoms of pulmonary metastases and haematothorax. 8. Rapid course of the disease, which usually proves fatal within six or seven months. The first point of importance is the connec- tion of this disease with pregnancy; in almost all recorded cases it has come on after an abor- tion hydatidiform mole, or very rarely after delivery at term. In about half the cases it has followed the expulsion of a hydatidiform mole— a remarkable fact of much importance with regard to its etiology. The second point is haemorrhage, which either continues after the expulsion of the ovum or commences shortly afterwards. In a few cases it did not occur for a considerable time, and in one i-ecorded by Whitridge Williams it was altogether absent, the first evidence of the disease being metastatic deposits in the vagina and lungs. In the majority of cases, however, it is the most pro- minent symptom, so that the patient soon be- comes profoundly anaemic. The surface is pale, and in places slightly oedematous; the face especially assumes a pallid, icteric, cachectic appearance. When the tumour sloughs the discharge be- comes offensive and septic fever sets in. It is therefore of the utmost importance to observe the strictest antiseptic precautions in dealing with tliese cases. On physical examination the uterus is found enlarged, often irregular in shape, and in some cases the os is sufficiently dilated to admit a finger, in which case the growth may be directly felt. The course of the disease is one of marked malignancy; in fact, it is the most rapidly fatal of all malignant uterine growths, death occurring from haemorrhage, septic infection, or pulmonary complications within a few weeks, rarely months, after the first symptoms have been observed. Pathological Anatomy.—The uterus is usually found infested with new growths, varying in size and colour, but generally of a dark purple- red. They involve the muscular tissue of the uterus, so the peripheral margin is ill defined, and after removal the uterine wall appears thinned. The growth is soft and, where not coloured with blood, of a greyish-red hue; it closely resembles placental tissue in its irregular fissured surface, its fibrous appearance on section, extreme vascularity and numerous apoplexies, but it is much softer and more friable, and its uterine surface shows a remarkable tendency to slough. Microscopically these growths are composed of a fibrous reticulum presenting an alveolar and cavernous structure containing numerous apo- plexies, two varieties of cellular elements, and sometimes chorionic villi, but no glands, blood- vessels, or lymphatics. The two varieties of cells contrast remarkably. The one are large individual cells varying from round or polygonal to spindle shape, the nuclei are large, and the outline of their cell protoplasm is clearly defined; they resemble Langhans' cells. The others are protoplasmic masses of various shape which contain a number of irregularly shaped nuclei rich in chromatin, but with no line of separation between the cells, and resemble the syncytial layer which forms the superficial covering of the chorionic villi. Both varieties of elements show a marked tendency to retraction of their proto- plasm and vacuolation; mitotic figures ai'e fre- quently observed in the cells, but nowhere in the protoplasmic masses. Metastases are generally found in the vagina, lungs, and other parts, and, as a rule, present