216 POST-MORTEM METHODS Or add the fuchsin solution to the carbolic acid in a test-tube until precipitation begins. On heating, the turbidity disappears. Filter some of the stain into a watch-glass. Heat gently until all turbidity or surface metallic shimmer disappears, then drop in the film or section, face down. Continue heating gently, until a bubble of steam rises, then keep hot for five minutes. Remove the film or section. Wash in tap- water and decolorise thoroughly in spirit or alcohol. Complete decolorisation in 25 per cent sulphuric acid, allowing to act for five minutes. Wash in tap- water. For contrast stain use alkaline methylene blue, or aqueous methylene blue, made by adding a few drops of stock solution to distilled water until a deep blue is obtained. Dehydrate, clear, and mount. Tt is important to commence decolorisation with alcohol, as this aflbrds a fairly accurate means of differentiating the tubercle bacillus from other "acid-fast" (acid-resisting) organisms. Spores.—If the above stain be allowed to act longer—fifteen to twenty minutes—it may be ;ised for demonstrating spores in organisms which projaagate by that method, weaker sulphuric acid (1-5 per cent) being vised to decolorise. Flagella.—For methods of staining flagella the reader is referred to any of the text-books on practical bacteriology. There is a considerable number of diseases in which one may hope for help in diagnosis by adopting the above procedures—for example, suppurations, abscesses localised or spreading, gonorrhoea, periostitis and osteomyelitis, ery- sipelas, pneumonia, tuberculosis particularly pulmonary, leprosy, influenza, anthrax or malig- nant pustule, acute spreading gangrene, tetanus, plague, actinomycosis. Although given a list of such favourable length, the reader must not conclude that, provided the staining methods be carried out correctly, he will be able therefrom to formulate a diagnosis in every case he examines, conditions clinically similar being frequently caused by bacteria which are quite dissimilar. Still, in the majority of cases one may expect assistance, and in very many one can make an accurate diagnosis from such examinations. In abscesses one may expect to find most commonly cocci singly, in clusters, or in chains. The films should be stained with a simple stain, or by Gram's or Weigert's methods. The pyo- genic cocci retain the stain by the latter methods. To determine their identity they must be separated by cultivation on suitable media. Chains (streptococci) are usually found iu acute, rapidly spreading abscesses. Suppurations occurring during the course of pneumonia and typhoid, whether of soft parts or bone, may be caused by the organisms associ- ated with these diseases. The diplococcus of pneumonia (Sternberg and Frankel) may often be readily distinguished by staining methods, its double lanceolate shape and capsule marking it out from other cocci present, especially if stained by Gram's method; but if bacilli are found in abscesses during typhoid fever one must not conclude without very careful investi- gation, for which great experience and special methods are requii'ed, that these are the bacilli of typhoid, as many other organisms may be present. In empyema the diplococcus of pneu- monia should be looked for (see p. 151). In periostitis and osteomyelitis bacteriological investigation of the pus is usually not carried out to diagnose its presence, as that depends more on clinical data, but to determine its character so as to direct treatment. The most common organism found is the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, but streptococci may be found, and their presence in certain cases may call for the use of anti-streptococcic serum. Where the suppuration is tuberculous in origin one may frequently by Ziehl-Neelsen's method demonstrate the presence of the tubercle bacillus. Gonorrhoea.—When a suppurative urethritis with production of creamy greenish yellow pus occurs shortly after connection, one may hope by staining simply with methylene blue or thionin to find gonococci of characteristic double character in the protoplasm of the pus cells. This absohitely confirms the diagnosis, the only organism which might cause confusion—so far as is known—being a diplococcus occurring in puerperal cystitis, and this stains by Gram's method, whereas the gonococcus becomes de- colorised. In later stages the bacteriological diagnosis cannot be so confident, and cultivation in Wertheim's medium has to be employed. This is composed of a mixture of human blood and agar. Its method of employment need not be referred to here. In erysipelas, fluid from the vesicles at the spreading edge or obtained by puncture may be examined by staining or cultural methods, and found to contain streptococci. Pneumonia.—The " rusty " sputum should be examined by "simple" stains or by Gram's method to demonstrate the diplococcus with its capsule. Pulmonary Ihiberculosis (clin. phthisis pul- monalis).—The sputum from a suspected case mixed with 1-20 carbolic acid if desired, should be placed in a flat glass dish, and the small yellow points picked out and crushed between cover-glasses, or, if these be not prominent, a drop of the yellow part of the sputum should