93 PHYSIOLOGY—APPENDIX: OKGANIC CHEMISTRY When each hand links to the one-handed hydrogen atom, Methane— H H—C—H is formed. I H By taking away a hydrogen atom from two methane molecules and linking these molecules together Ethane— H H I I H—C—C—H is produced. I I H H By further linking more and more of these molecules together, similar molecules containing three, four, five, or more carbon atoms are produced. When each carbon has its due proportion of hydrogen atoms it is saturated, but if two hydrogen atoms are let go, the unoccupied hands of the carbon may join and form an unsaturated molecule, thus :— Ethane becomes Ethylene H H I I H—C = C—H When one hydrogen atom is taken away and the molecule has a hand ready to link with some other substance a radical is constituted, and these are known as Methyl, Ethyl, etc. Alcohols.—When the two-handed oxygen atom 0 linked to hydrogen H, and thus forming the hydroxyl molecule OH, is linked to the vacant hand of the radical, an alcohol is formed, e.g.— H (H) H—C—C—0—(H) I I H H Ethyl Alcohol. When the terminal carbon is thus oxidised a Primary Alcohol is formed; but if a middle carbon atom is oxidised, a Secondary Alcohol is produced— H OH H I 1 I H—C—C—C—H Secondary Propyl Alcohol. 1 I I H H H But the oxidation may involve more than one carbon atom, and thus the Polyvalent Alcohols are produced— OH OH OH 1 I I H—C—C—C—H Glycerin. I I I H H H Aldehydes or Aldoses.—When from a primary alcohol the two hydrogens marked above in brackets are removed, the vacant hand of the oxygen links to the vacant hand of the carbon to form an Aldehyde or Aldose— H H—C—C=0 I I H (H) Ethyl Aldehyde. Ketones or Ketoses.—These are formed in the same way from the Secondary Alcohols, thus :— H 0 H I II I H—C—C—C—H I I H H Acetone, the Ketose of Secondary Propyl Al- cohol. Acids. — If the hydrogen of the aldehyde marked in brackets is replaced by hydroxyl, OH, an acid is produced— H H—C- I H 0 _C_0—H Acetic Acid. The carboxyl group to the right of the dotted line is characteristic of the acids. The oxidation may be carried on at each end of the line and the divalent acids are thus produced 0 0 H—0—C—C—0—H Oxalic Acid. If in the radical of one of these acids a hydrogen is replaced by hydroxyl, OH, an oxy-acid is formed, thus :— H H 0 1 I II H—C—C—C—0—H I I H H Propionic Acid may be converted to the two lactic acids called (a) and {fi) oxy-propionic acid, according to the carbon which is oxidised H OH 0 H—C—C—C—0—H I I H H OH H 0 H—C—C—C—0—H and I I H H Similar oxy-acids are formed from the divalent acids.