207 POST-MORTEM METHODS vessels, or bronchi, following the lines of the lymphatics. In the former there is also generalised miliary tuberculosis throughout the body ; in the latter this does not usually exist, and the spread is more a local one. Hcemori'hagic infarctions occur as consoli- dated areas, full of blood, pyramidal in shape, with the base to the pleura, over which there may be localised pleurisy. If a section be made the occluded vessel of supply can usually be seen near the apex of the infarcted area. If necessary, the upper air and food passages may now be removed for examination. Extend the median skin incision upwards nearly to the symphysis menti, dissect away the skin on either side, and remove the soft structures left in the superior mediastinum and neck, as far up as the level of the hyoid bone. Then pass a narrow-bladed knife upwards through the floor of the mouth and free the soft parts from the lower jaw-bone all round; or, if it be ad- visable, for the sake of appearances, to retain the anterior part of the tongue in situ, cut it across about its middle. Draw down the loosened parts through the opening made, then cut across the soft palate at its junction with the hard palate, and detach it with the pillars of the fauces from the base of the skull. Con- tinuing to drag gently upon these, free the remaining attachments of the pharynx to the vertebral bodies, and remove all the parts in one mass. Laying them down on a flat surface, with the posterior surface upwards, slit up the oeso- phagus and pharynx with scissors; then, in a similar manner, open up the larynx and trachea. Note congestion of the surfaces, ulcerations, diphtheritic exudations, and new-growths. In the later period of life the cartilages of the larynx and trachea are frequently ossified, sometimes show calcification or necrosis, the last condition being usually of tubercular or syphilitic origin. Next, turn the parts so that their anterior surface is upwards, examine the thyroid gland chiefly as to atrophy in cretinism or myxoedema, or enlargement in goitre, or new-growth. The cervical or mediastinal glands may either be examined at this stage or before removal of the cervical structures from the body. The walls of the thorax and the spinal column are now exposed, and may be examined more particularly. First, examine the portion of aorta remaining for atheroma, aneurysm, or contraction. Removing this, note whether fracture or dis- location of the vertebrte exist, and, passing out- wards, examine the ribs for fractures or exostoses. In rickets the costo-chondral junctions are greatly enlarged, forming beaded projections—• "rickety rosary "—which are most apparent on the inner surface. Sewing up the Cavities.—The examination of the abdomen and thorax being now complete, it remains to restore the body, so far as is possible, to its former appearance. Remove all fluids from the cavities, replace such organs as are not required for further examination, and pack the thoracic inlet with absorbent wool. Replace the sternum, and with a few stitches secure it in position ; then care- fully sew up the skin incision, so that no fluid can escape. This is best accomplished by using a continuous " out-and-in " suture, passing the needle thi'ough the skin always from within, and pulling steadily on the cord so as to keep the stitches tense. The closer the stitches the better the result. They should not be farther apart than half an inch. Tie the last stitch securely so that it cannot possibly slip. Then remove all traces of blood from the skin surface, and place a layer of absorbent wool along the line of the skin incision, fixing it, if necessary, with a few turns of bandage. This will prevent soiling of the shroud. Head and Spinal Cord.—Examination of the brain and spinal cord may proceed after the thorax and abdomen have been closed. Where the spinal cord has to be examined, remove it before the brain. This order is of special importance when the course of ascend- ing or descending degenerations has to be investigated. Turn the body on its face, and, standing on its left side, draw the integuments as far as possible to that side; then, with firm pressure on the knife, and inclining it outwards, cut down on the left side of the vertebral spines, so as to separate with one sweep all the soft structures down to the laminae from occiput to sacrum. Passing to the other side, and drawing the integuments to that side, through the same skin incision and in the same manner clear the laminae of the right side from sacrum to occiput. Then saw completely through the laminae, near the articular processes. If this be properly accomplished the subsequent procedure is easy. In the lumbar region cut through one of the interspinous ligaments and the corresponding ligamenta subflava; then inserting the closed points of the cutting bone-forceps between the spines, lever up the upper spinous process. The laminae generally separate easily, and then, grasping the loosened vertebral arch with lion- forceps, or with the left hand protected by a towel, pull upon it, at the same time snipping with the bone-forceps through the laminae which are not yet divided. The arch of the atlas vertebra is usually very hard and resistant. Note any fracture of the vertebral ai-ch or haemorrhage into the surrounding tissues or into the spinal canal. In the dorsal region a layer of protective fat is usually found lying upon the dura.