Dr. Nichols' Soap. 37 BRILL'S SEaTaLt! and as it contains oxalate of lime it should not be used by rheumatic persons, nor those troubled with a tendency to stone in the kidneys or bladder. ^\'heatmeal made into puddmgs forms the basis of the most substantial sweet dishes that we have. WHEATMEAL MOULD.—Mix three parts of a pint of milk with one part of water, pour half of this mixture into a saucepan, and boil. Mix i oz. of wheatmeal, or Fo.jd of Health, with the remainder of the mixture of milk and water, and make itint: a batter. Add sugar and spice to taste. Pour this into the boiling milk and wato.-, LO..k five minutes, and then pour into a mould which has been rinsed out with cold water. Serve when cold, and eat with stewed fruit. CHOCOLATE WHEATMEAL MOULD.-Use a bar of chocolate to a pint of milk. Break the chocolate into bits, put into a saucepan with a quarter-pint of boiling water, and thoroughly dissolve the chocolate. Mix i oz. of wheatmeal, or Food of Health, in three-quarters of a pint of milk, and pour into the saucepan. Cook five or ten minutes, and pour into a cold mould as before. More sugar than that con- tained in the chocolate is not necessary. Eat when cold. WHEATMEAL FRUIT MOULDS.—Well stew any kind of summer fresh fruit, rub through a sieve, thicken with wheatmeal flour, or Food of Health, allowinf»- i oz of meal to each pint of fruit juice, add a little sugar, boil about five minutes, and pour into a cold mould. Eat when cold. In winter use the juice of three oranges, to the pint of water, or the juice of one lemon to the pint of water, sweeten to taste" and prepare as above. When making a mould of fresh fruit a double saucepan or an enamelled one should always be used, as the fruit acids attack the metal of ordinary pans, dissolve some of it, spoil the fiavour of your dish, and in the case- of tinned or copper vessels are positively injurious. WHOLEMEAL SWEET BATTER.—Stew, until well done, dried or fresh fruits in sufiBcient water to barely cover them, and pour into a pie-dish ; make a fairly thick batter of wheatmeal flour-, or Food of Health, milk, and one or two eggs (whisk the latter before adding) ; pour this over the fruit, and bake for an hour. Som& add little bits of butter to the batter before cooking ; this makes the dish" tastier but not more wholesome or nourishing. BOILED WHEATMEAL BATTER.—Make a batter as above, add to it a few f-ultana-s, a little sugar and spice, pour into a pudding basin, tie a cloth over boil for an hour, and cat with a sweet sauce. ' WHOLEMEAL BREAD PUDDING.-Soak brown bread in cold milk and water - when soft, reduce to a pulp; add sultanas, chopped fine almonds, a little sugar and a whisked egg. Put into a buttered pic-dish, put a few bits of butter on the' top bake in the oven till brown at the top, turn out on to a flat dish, and cat with a sweet sauce. BOILED WHEATMEAL PUDDING.-Make same as the above, but leave out the butter, and boil in a cloth or basin. WHOLEMEAL CABINET PUDDING—Thinly butter slices of wholemeal bread pick over some sultanas, chop fine some almonds ; put the bread in layers in a pie- dish, sprinkle the almonds, raisins, and a little sugar between each layer until the dish is nearly full ; beat up an egg with some milk and pour over the bread until the top layer is just covered ; bake about half-an-liour. This must be avoided hv the bilious and those inclined to skin eruptions. WHOLEMEAL FRUIT PUDDING.-Line a' deep dish or basin with slices of wholemeal bread cut a quarter of an inch thick ; pour into the disli any kind of hot stewed fruit until it is full ; cover with a layer of l)rcad, put a plate over it so as to press the contents of the dish together, and let cool. Turn out and servo with white sweet sauce. A little soaked sago may be mixed with the fruit and cooked with it, as it helps to bind the contents togelhcr. Farinaceous puddings arc made with starchy products, such as rice, sn^o tai)ioca macaroni, semolina, hominy, etc. They arc apt to prove constipating, and should not be used by those having any tendency to constipation, p Ics, varW ve ns or varicocele To correct lliis ten.lency, mix sultana.s or currants with them or eat them with stewed, fresh, or dried fruits. ' . ^^^^ PUDDING—Put washed rice into a jMc-dish. cover with cold water nlaoo in the oven, and let ,t cook until the rice is nearly soft throughor 1 eat uJ oS egg with nnlk, mix with this a little cinnamon or other flavouring, aS Zr it over the ncc. Add sugar to taste, and bake until set. When the egg is left out