34 Dr. Nichols' Food of HealtS: BRILL'S SEA SALT. Macaroni boiled as above may be mixed with grated cheese, and made hot in the oven. MACABONI AU GRATIN.—Put a pound of macaroni into plenty of hoiling water, with an onion. Allow this to boil for about an hour, or till the macaroni is thoroughly tender. Drain the macaroni thoroughly ; put it into a dish ; add some butter or oil, and several tablespoonfuls of cream; mix grated cheese and some salt with it, and sprinkle some crumbs of stale bread, more gi-ated cheese, and some pounded boiled chestnuts over it. Brown the dish before the fire. The chestnuts give a very nice flavour to it.—J. Malcolm, in " Dietetic Reformer." Very nice, but toasted cheese is not good for dyspeptics. MACARONI WITH TOMATO SAUCE.—Break the macaroni into pieces, put it into hoiling water, and let it boil till swollen out, when it will be quite tender. An hour's fast boiling will probably be requisite. Have ready a sauce made of milk (a breakfast cupful), some butter, one large or two small onions cut into small shreds, and some tomatoes or tomato sauce. Mix all these together, and cook till the onion is quite dissolved. Then, having drained the macaroni thoroughly on a . sieve, add it to the sauce in a stewpan, and warm the whole till thoroughly mixed. Add salt to the taste. By way of variety some grated Parmesan or other cheese may be added to the sauce.—J. Malcolm, in " Dietetic Reformer." TOMATOES, BAKED.—Pour boiliug water over the tomatoes to loosen the skin; peel; cut in thick slices, and place them in a well-buttered baking-dish, with a little salt and pepper, and butter in bits. Cover with bread-crumbs, in which mix grated cheese and powdered sweet herbs. Bake twenty or thirty minutes. Or stew over fire, stirring in the bread-crumbs and seasoning. EICE FRITTERS.—With boiled rice mix a little flour and beaten egg; make into thin cakes, and fry in oil or butter. Vegetarians who like to imitate flesh foods make " Bread Steaks."—Soak slices of bread, or toast, on a flat dish, in a little milk or cream, till rather soft; season as liked ; beat up an egg or two; dip in the slices, and fry in a little butter. Serve with brown gravy or any mild sauce. BATTERS. These dishes take the place of omelets and frequently of pies, to both of which they are in many particulars similar. The batter is used to keep the ingredients together, and adds to their wholesomeness. SAVOURY BATTER.—Mix two eggs, milk, and wholemeal flour, or Food of Health, together, flavour with pepper and salt, add one grated onion, pour into a pie-dish, and bake for an hour. Eat with baked potatoes and vegetables. Milk pudding may form a second course. POTATO BATTER.—Thoroughly wash some potatoes, do not peel, cut in thin slices, fry in butter or oil, chop up onions, which fry, and add to the potatoes. Put all into a pie-dish, pour over a batter made from two eggs, milk and wholemeal flour, or Food of Health, with pepper and salt to taste. Bake an hour or an hour and a half, and eat with vegetables. Bread pudding, wheatmeal blancmange, or breaxl and fruit may be eaten afterwards. This dish must be avoided by the bilious or those of weak digestion. VEGETABLE BATTER.—Cut fine any kinds of mixed vegetables, such as carrots, lurnipg, onions, ])arsiiips, beetroot, celery, etc., add an ounce of butter, and cook Blow y in a small quantity of water. When done put into a pic-dish, strain ofi; v,.r , li may remain. Mix this with the batter, pour tlie batter over the v,rL 1 i',-*^"'^ ^'^'^'^ foi' an hour. Eat with vegetables and bread ; have milk or bread pudding afterwards. non^P^^^i i*'^ ^^!SURRECTION BATTER.—All kinds of cold vegetables, cold mus \£'Z\ r or cold soup, may be used for making this. The vegetables poured ovor 11';^' ^1'^ ^'^'■'""8 ingredients well mixed together. The batter is tables musH,^ ul ■ baked for an hour. When soup is used the vcge- or tinned tomn>oo'"° , '•''"'^ "sed for making batter. Frial onions, wholcBome od, !. nmi, ° r"^^ Pfilatnble. This is a pleasant way of using up without voKoiai.C . ^Mi '^o"l<l otherwise be wasted. Eat with or ^ ^'ca , milk pudding or broad and fruit may be taken afterwards.