38 Dr. Nichols' Food of Health. BRILL'S SEA SALT. the rice may be mixed first of all with milk and water, sugar and flavouring. When sultanas are used, these should be put to soak along with the rice. Lemon peel, bay leaves, almond flavouring, or vanilla may be used to give variety to the taste of this pudding. To make it a more perfect food when the rice is cooked, some sweet wheatmeal batter may be poured over it, and the whole baked until •done. SAGO, TAPIOCA, SEMOLINA, AND HOMINY PUDDINGS are made like rice pudding. They should be eaten with stewed prunes. MACARONI PUDDING.—Boil macaroni in water until soft, strain off the water, put the macaroni in a pie-dish, then add the egg, milk, sugar, and flavouring, all beaten up together. Bake until brown at the top. VEGETABIAN CHRISTMAS PUDDING.—Mix together one pound of finely- ground wheatmeal flour, or Food of Health, two pounds of stoned raisins, one pound of sultanas, half a pound of sugar, quarter of a pound of mixed peel, quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, a dozen bitter ones, a pound of shelled Brazil nuts, a pound of wholemeal bread crumbs, half a pound of scraped carrots, two ounces of soaked sago, four eggs, and a teaspoonf ul of mixed spice. Moisten with milk until it is of the consistence of very thick porridge, and mix well. Grease some pudding- basins with olive oil or butter, fill with mixture, cover with a wholemeal crust, boil six hours, and then it is ready. Eat sparingly of it in the middle of the day, but not at all in the evening, for if eaten at night any but the lightest diet may •cause nightmare or stomach troubles. BLANCMANGES.—These cold dishes are best fitted for summer use. Being made from starchy compounds, they are apt to prove constipating, unless made with wholemeal preparations, and should always be eaten with stewed fruit. Corn- flour, arrowroot. Food of Health, or rice flour are the substances used. Mix milk and water in equal parts, and bring to the boil in a saucepan, then stir in any of the flours named above, cook a short time until it thickens, pour into a cold mould, and let it get cold. Then turn out on a dish and serve with stewed fruit. SEMOLINA AND SULTANA BLANCMANGE.—Make this like ordinary blanc- mange, but with semolina flour, and stir in a few sultanas while cooking. Eat when cool. WHEATMEAL PANCAKES.—These dishes are rich with fat, and must therefore be used sparingly. Make a batter of wholemeal flour, or Food of Health, eggs, and milk, and add a. little sugar. Make your frying-pan hot, put into it a little olive oil or butter. When this is hot, pour in a small cupful of the batter, and let it spread all over the bottom of the frying-pan. Cook until brown on the under side, and mind it does not stick to the pan, then turn and cook on the other side. Serve hot, eat with a little sugar and lemon juice. Or make a sauce by boiling some slightly acid preserve in a little warm water, strain through a sieve, and serve it in a sauce boat. SWEET OMELETS are made like pancakes, but before removing from the frying- pan some jam, preserve, or marmalade is spread over the pancake, which is then rolled up as if to make a roly-poly pudding. Eat whilst warm. Pancakes and omelets should not be eaten by the bilious or those troubled with skin diseases. FRUIT PIES.—These arc made from fresh ripe fruit of any kind, or even of such ctricd fruit as prunes, etc. Most fi-uits are first stewed, then a small quantity of sugar added, covered with a wholemeal crust and baked. A very nice crust is made with wholemeal flour, or Food of Health, and oil in this way ; to one pound of wholemeal flour allow a small teacupful of olive oil, mix the oil and flour together in a basin, rubbing the oil in as butter is done, add just enough warm water to make the flour into a dough, roll out thin, and cover the fruit, etc., with this. ^aJp""^ '^'oif'cd by those with a tendency to skin eruptions or biliousness. STEWED FRUIT AND BAKED CUSTARD.—Stew fresh or dried fruits, put them aiiiic bottom of a pic-disli, soak half a small teacupful of tapioca over night, and pour this over the fruit,, and mix. Then beat up one egg, mix it with a pint of hrin;, f *u" V P,"*- " tablcspoonful of cornflour, or wheatmeal, or Food of Health, tiiniLo I , .^'ow fire, and pour this custard over the mixture of fruit and tapioca, bake in the oven until brown on the top. xnuUnn^^^J.f^^^^—V'''^ ^''•'i stewed fruit, or with any kind of firm Willi cKgs they must be used sparingly by the bilious,