25 Dr. Nichols' Soap. BRILL'S SEA SALT. PRACTICAL COOKERY. Most cookery books give too many recipes. You want a dozen or so of good dishes; why be obhged to select them from two or three hunched ? I have already given instructions for making bread, porridge, and for preparing greens, fruit, etc. The following recipes will be found useful, and sufficient for all ordinary purposes. SOUPS. _ This wholesome form of food should not be taken by every one. Soup IS best for invalids and for those delicate persons who require food that may be easily digested and absorbed, and it is also good as the commence- ment of a meal for tho.se who have been a long time without food. Those persons who suffer from acidity or rising of sour fluid into the mouth, and those troubled with much wind, must take soups spai ingly Most people have an idea that to make soup there must be meat or meat stock, or annual basis of some kind. This is a mistake To use the watery extract obtained by boiling bones adds very little to the- nourishmg properties of soup. But the water that vegetables have been boi ed m is extremely useful and nutritious, and English housewives make a great mistake in throwing it away. When cauliflowers, carrots turnips, onions, celery, haricot beans, macaroni, etc., have been boiled the water m which they were cooked should be saved and used as stock for vegetable soup. Another good stock is the water in which bran has been boiled for some hours and strained off. A good stock for soups is made by boiling a pound of wheat bran in a gallon of water, or in that proportion. Stir the bran into cold water • let it come slowly to the boiling point, and then simmer for two hours' Strain through a linen cloth, and bottle for use. If a little salt and a few pepper-corns and cloves are added half-an-hour before straining they will flavour the stock, and prevent fermentation. The celebrated soups of Count Eumford were made of barley peas onions, turnips, carrots, potatoes, sugar, vinegar, and cuttings of' t^fcaie bread, properly seasoned. They were rather thick and very nourishin"- and so cheaply made that he was able to feed his Bavarian soldiers and the^ beggars he converted into industrious workers, on five farthings A little sugar may enter into the composition of all vegetable souna if its sweetness be balanced by an equivalent dash of vinegar Lime or lemon juice or sorrel may be better, but they may be too dear The basis of a rich flavour for soups and stews is made by frvine- chopped or cut onions, with a little oil or butter, and some sucrar anrV vineg.ar. Stir until it is brown ; then add to it the stock, or the''water and other ingredients. Every cook should have a good hand-mill to grind wheat, barley rice etc at need A good coffee-mill will answer ; but a larger one will .save time. Hand-mills can be had from Gs. or 30s. to 50s. They soon NichoS ^"""^^"''^'■ ''^ ^'"'"''^''^ ^'SS^'y i'o^ Bavaria." By Dr.