20 Dr. Nichols' Food of Health. BRILL'S SEA SALT. An easier way is to put the eggs into a saucepan of cold water, half a pint to each egg. Set over a fii-e hot enough to make the water boil in three or four minutes. As soon as the water boils, remove the saucepan, and let the eggs remain in the water one minute. They will then be delicately and beautifully cooked from yolk to shell. To poach eggs, break the shell, and drop them carefully into a shallow pan of boiling water, watching them until they are well set and done through, but still tender. There are tin frames made to assist this operation. Scrambled eggs are good if carefully managed, and not overdone. Break the eggs into a saucepan, in which a lump of butter is melted, or a little oil made warm. Add a little salt and pepper, and stir gently over a moderate hre until the whole is set, and is tenderly but sulEcienfly cooked. As there is no danger of overdoing this, it is one of the best ways of cooking eggs. Tomatoes and Eggs.—Cut fresh tomatoes into pieces, or take the solid part of a tin of tomatoes, put into a saucepan, heat through, then add one or two beaten up eggs, pepper, salt, and a bit of butter, cook until set, eat with dry wholemeal bread. OMELETS. It is said that every Frenchman, and of course every Frenchwoman, can make a good omelet. It is certain that not one English professed cook in a thousand ever makes a decent one. Most are flat, tough, leathery, indigestible abominations. Put a frying-pan over a hot fire, with a lump of butter, or its equiva- lent ^ of good olive or other vegetable oil. While it is coming to the cooking point, break your eggs—one to four or five, according to the quantity required, or the size of your pan—into a basin with a little seasoning : salt, pepper, sweet herbs, chopped parsley, mushroom pow- der, etc., as you like them. Some prefer them quite jjlain. Add a tablespoonful of milk for each egg; some think a little corn flour or Food of Health in the milk an improvement. Beat tlie eggs together gently—not too much. Pour into the hot pan and stir the egg about very gently until it sets evenly all over, raising the edges to keep it free, find to see when it is cooked to a light brown, when with a large knife or slide dexterously turn one half over upon the other, and slide the folded omelet upon the hot dish in readiness; put on the hot cover, and serve immediately. Savoury Omelet.—Soak wholemeal bread in cold milk and water nntil soft, then rub smooth, grate an onion, beat up an egg, and add a tew flavouring herbs, and pepper and salt to taste. Mix the whole togetlier, put in a pio-di.sh, place a few small pieces of butter on the top, ami bake about half an liour, or until done. Eat with vegetables and potatoes. Milk pudding or bread and fruit may be eaten afterwards. Tomato Omelet.—Tliis i.s made in jilnio.st tlie same way as the «avoury omelet, but without tlie addition of flavouring lierbs. Two --tyerage-sized tomatoes are cut up fhie, and mixed with the ingredient.^ Kiv-en above. Wlien tinned tomatoes are used the juice may be made "oc, and the bread soaked in it instead of milk and water.