A FEW WAYS OF PREPARING DR. NICHOLS' FOOD OF HEALTH. (Eegistered Teade Mark.) 8d. Per lb. Packet. MODES OF PREPARATION. BREAKFAST OR SUPPER DISH. Into half a pint of Boiling water, carefully licpt hoiling, sift from the left hand, stirring with the right, 2 oz. or two large table-spoonfuls of the Food OF Health ; boil gently about ten minutes, always stirring. When done, pour into a soup plate, and let it stand for a few minutes; eat with cold or hot milk and powdered sugar, or mth cream, stewed fruit, golden syrup, etc. COST-ONE PENNY. The very best and most delicious mode of preparing the Food is to proceed as above, using Boiling Milk instead of Water, and taking special care that it does not burn. Those who SQflEer from Constipation had better have if made with Water only. ANOTHER WAY, Proportions, 2 oz. or two large table- spoonfuls of the Food of Health to half a pint of water (or milk and water). Have boiling two-thirds of this quan- tity ; with the remaining third mix into a batter the 2 oz. of Food of Health. Pour into the boiling water, and stir from five to ten minutes. Tlie directions must le imjMeitly followed. MOULDED. Poured into wet Moulds it may be eaten cold with sweet or sour sauce or syrup ; cut in slices it may be fried in a little oil or butter, and eaten with syrup ; mixed with a beaten egg and milk, it may be fried in fritters. Good in every way, the simjAer form-l are lest for delicate stomachs and weak digestions. BLANC MANGE. Beat two table-spoonfuls with an egg- and stir into a pint of boiling milk, sweeten and flavour to taste ; simmei- five minutes, stirring well, and pour mto a wet mould. Eat cold, with sugar, or cream, or fruit syrup. PUDDINGS. _ With milk and eggs, and sweetened. It makes a delicious and healthy pud- ding, which may be improved lay the addition of well-soaked raisins, chopped and soaked figs, apples pared whole or in shces, or any pulpy fruit. INFANTS' GRUEL. Beat up a dessert-spoonful with juat enough milk to moisten it, and stir it into half a pint of slightly sweetened boiling milk and water, equal parts- gently boil five minutes ; can be sti'ained ]f desired. This food will relieve most cases of constijmtiun in infants without other ajierients. POPOVERS. Beat the Food of Healtli with milb and eggs, with a little salt and sugar into a light batter ; pour iulo buttered' cups or small deep tins, and bake in a quick oven. WAFERS. The Food of Health may be mixed with water or milk, with a little salt and sugar, if so liked, rolled out thin and baked into delicious wafers. BREAD AND BISCUITS. Mixed u]i with baking ]jowder and milk, or a little oil or butter, it makes delightful bread, cakes, or biscuits. Sold by Grocers and Chemists Everywhere. THE NICHOLS-BRILLC07LTM9rEASTCHEAP, LONDON, E.G.