Dr. Nichols' Soap. 21 BRILL'S SEA SALT. PULSE. Peas, beans, and lentils are, as shown in our diagrams, exceedingly rich in nitrogenous, or iiesh and tissue forming material. It is from these that the vegetarian derives whatever may be lacking in rice, potatoes, and the cabbages and turnips on which he is popularly sup- posed to live. The truth is that wholemeal wheat bread, oatmeal porridge, and many kinds of fruit, contain all the elements of nutrition in very nearly the proportions required. Still, we do well on the whole to eat green peas, green or "French" beans (in their pods), and to use a certain proportion of dry peas, haricot beans, or lentils. They form the richer part of soups; they enter into the composition of vegetable stews ; and peas pudding, or baked beans, are a far " heartier " kind of fcod than any kind of flesh or fish, and make a meal for a ploughman or athlete, for useful labour, or that which is merely ornamental. As soups, pulse should be modified by lighter articles, at least three parts in four of farinaceous, or vegetable elements—say, one part of dry, pure beans, or lentils, to three (still dry weight) of barley, rice, potatoes, turnips, onions, etc. A much-advertised, and therefore high-priced, food is composed of one part lentils and three parts barley. Another advertised food is made of bakers' bread, rusked and ground into powder. They are not bad foods, but the best is not worth Is. a pound and is inferior to Food of Health. All the ripe varieties of pulse require much cooking. Peas may well be cooked into soup or pudding. Haricot beans should be soaked all night, and the water thrown away, because containing an acrid preserv- ing matter in the outer shell. Then in fresh water they should be stewed or baked until quite tisnder. The American wood-choppers let them stay all night in the iron-2)ot in a fire-hole, with coals heaped on the cover, and so have a hot and hearty breakfast. They season with a lump of salt pork or bacon. Vegetarians use instead a little nice oil or a lump of butter. For soups, it is convenient to have pea, bean, or lentil flour. It saves time, and, if bought at the grocer's, it may probably be quite sufliciently adulterated with some cheap cereal. We recommend all these very " hearty " and highly nitrogenous foods to be used in strict moderation. THE ADVANTAGES OF A VEGETARIAN DIET IN CERTAIN FEBRILE STATES. Dr. E. B, SHULDHAM writes in the Homaippathic World ;— "Amongst the variety of good things which refreshed him (his patient) durin? his lUness, Dr. Nichols' ' Food of Health' played a leading part. I can fully understand how well such food would agree with him. It is soft without heing insipid ; light, and yet nourishing withal. I heard by chance that one of the allopathic practitioners resident in Guildford had been cured of an old-standin? dyspepsia by this 'Food of Health.' A pleasant farina had triumphed over the mingled forces of bismuth, the mineral acids, and the vegetable bitters."