Dr. Nichols' Soap. 23 BRILL'S SEA SALT. children to kill, roast, and eat them—whence, coming down from earlier times and customs, we may have derived the question whether certain deceased persons have " cut up well." The word vegetables, used in the greengrocer sense, with an appli- cation to cabbages, turnips, potatoes, etc., has been a thorn in the flesh of the vegetarians, who have vainly tried to find a better designation. I consider it good enough, and am well satisfied with the name which belongs to one of the great kingdoms of nature, living, as I do, almost entn-ely upon the products of the vegetable kingdom, though availing myself to a small extent of the industrious gatherings of cows, fowls, and bees, which have the goochiess to supply me with milk, butter, cheese eggs, and honey—all real products of vegetation, and all to be had without the sacrifice of life. Certainly there is a wide difference between getting a glass of milk from a friendly cow, an egg from a hen, or some honey from an over- flowing luve, and kiUing, roasting, and eating fowls or cattle. Vegetables, so called, though not generally rich in nutritive elements yet contain certain necessary principles of diet. Potatoes are eminently anti-scorbutic. No ship's crew ever got the scurvy if well provided with fresh or even dried potatoes, and other vegetables or fruits Spinach and other greens and salads promote the action of the bowels Leaves as of the cabbage, lettuce, etc.; stalks, as of celery and rhubarb; tubers, as of the potato, sweet potato, or yam; bulbs as the onion and lily; roots, as of the beet, carrot, parsnip, and turnip- and the vegetable maiTow, squash, and pumpkin, may be considered as substitutes for fruits, and possess many of their virtues. The tomato one of the best of all, is truly a fruit, and one that has decidedly medi- cinal properties, so that for dyspeptic and liver complaints we may well have a tomato cure, and get well by living for a time on brown bread or Food of Health Biscuits, say, and lipe, raw tomatoes—a quite suffi cient and very healthy diet. ^ Two nice and excellent vegetables, of the class gi-eens, are seldom seen m shops or markets, but can be freely gathered by the roadside in country places. Spring nettles, gathered when tender, and lightly boiled, or rather steamed, in their own sufficient moisture, with a spoon- ful of water to begin, and served on toast, make, with a bit of butter and a squeeze of lemon or dash of vinegar, as nice and healthy a dish of greens as any epicure could desire. So do dandelions before they blossom. Take a table-knife and cut off the root just below the leaves, so as to keep the mass of leaves together; pick over, wash, and boil or steam till they are tender and eat as other greens. They are slightly bitter, and considered medicinal —as are a]l_ greens, vegetables, and fruits. In fact, people who live on good food, in proper quantities, and breathe pure air, avoid noisons and have cleanly and healthy habits, generally never need nasty drugs' nor any medicines but those found in the fields, gardens, and orchards +l.5d'r^f'^Ti,^'''f'r?^'''l' ""'P^'-^S^^' '-^i^l most vegetables are the better for the addition of_ a little sugar in cooking, whidi improves both their flavoiir and nutritive properties. A squeeze of lemon-iiice or a few drops of vinegar may be added in the eating. This applies also to vegetable soups and stews. 11 '^^"^ w