8 Dr. Nichols' Food of Health. BRILL'S SEA SALT. FOOD DIAGRAMS. HESE show at a glance the proportions of Flesh and Tissue forming, or nitrogenous elements, albumen, fi brine, gluten, etc.; Heat and Force producing, or carbonaceous elements, oil, sugar, starch, etc. ; Bone and Teeth forming, as lime, phosphates, etc.; and Water, in several common foods, according to the best chemical authorities (see opposite). From these diagrams the reader can gather at a glance the relative value of several types of food, by observing the proportions of the matter which builds up the various organs of the body, and repairs their daily waste, that which keeps up animal heat, and gives force and activity, and the proportion of water, which, though a necessary element, can be got for considerably less than what is often paid for it in beef and mutton. Diagram No. 1 shows the proportions of bone, brain, muscle, and other tissue-forming, and heat or force-forming matter in wheat, the king of grains. Rye, barley, and maize vary a Httle from wheat, the latter, especially, containing more oil. In wheat the proportions are almost precisely what the human system requires, and it is therefore called the staff of life. Wholemeal, brown, or " Graham " bread, as it IS called in America, which was once made by all English bakers, is the best that can be made—easy of digestion, a preventive of, and cure tor, constipation, and affording perfect nourishment to every organ of the body. No. 2. The common white bread of the baker has lost a large portion ot its tissue-forming elements in the bran, shorts, grits, etc., thrown out by the miller, so that it consists largely of starch, and causes starvation and constipation. No- 3 is Scotia's favourite food, with a good supply of brain and mascle, and great heat and force. No 4, the staple food of more than half the human race, i-equires to eaten with dahl, peas, beans, lentils, milk, or eggs, to supply a larger «f ^ligestlo ^^^'^^"^■fo'^^ing elements. It is a pure food, and very easy No. 5. The potato, though low in tissue-making material (nitrogen), contain.s considerable carbon, in the form of starch, and some excellent l.r*^''n ®^«°ients. Much of tlie water is thrown off in cooking, especially in baking. Ncs. 6 and 7. Peas and beans—haricot and other dry benns are