Dr. Nichols' Food of Health. BRILL'S SEA SALT. SOUPS FOR INVALIDS may be prepared from bran water ; what is called the stock of the soup should be made from bran ; eight ounces of bran should be boiled in a quart of water, till it simmers down to a pint; it should then be carefully strained. It should be made fresh every day, and should be used as the stock for invalids'soup. Bran water allays irritability of the stomach and prevents vomit- ing ; it is the best thing to be mixed in the milk for infants."—y/te Veqctarian Almavac for IS82. POTATO SOUP. —This very easily made and nourishing dish is thus prepared : Peel and cut raw potatoes into a saucepan, allow a pint of water for each pound of potatoes ; shred in an onion or two, add a little pepper and salt to taste, boil until the potatoes are done, and then rub the whole through a sieve, warm again and serve. Eat with wholemeal bread, or wholemeal bread toast. This soup may be made more nourishing by using milk and water in equal parts instead of water only. It can be made richer by adding a little butter, and very savoury by frying the onions in butter, and adding them to the soup before serving. Those who do not like onions, or who are averse to the odour that they give the breath, may chop- some parsley fine, and add to the soup instead. VEGETABLE SOUP.—Cut fine any kind of vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, onions, potatoes, celery, parsnips, tomatoes, artichokes, cauliflowers, or whatever vegetables are in season. Boil them well in a suitable quantity of water, thicken with whcatmeal flour or Food of Health, add pepper and salt to taste, and eat cool with brown bread. For invalids the vegetables, when cooked, may be rubbed through a colander or hair sieve. This soup may be varied in many ways : pearl barley, groats, rice, hominy, macaroni, semolina, vermicelli, or other farinaceous flour or product may be used to thicken it or give it variety. A Uttle butter added just before it is served makes it richer, but not more wholesome. If the onions or vegetables are fried before being added, they make the soup very savoury, but may cause it to repeat or give rise to slight biliousness. PEA, BEAN, OE LENTIL SOUP.—These soups are made in very much the same way -■as the vegetable soup, but a little lentil, pea, or bean flour is added as well as, or instead of, the wheatmeal flour ; or whole peas, beans, or lentils may be used. These soups are more flatulent than those made of fresh vegetables, and should not be ftjsed by persons inclined to flatulency. Soaked tapioca or sago is useful to thicken soups, and makes them more nourishing. In winter, soups may be eaten warm, but never hot; and in the summer time they may be taken quite cold. FRUIT SOUPS.—In summer these dishes are enjoyable. Any kind of ripe fruit is "boiled in water; wheatmeal, semolina, sago, or tapioca is added to thicken it, and ti little sugar may be added ; it must be eaten cool with wholemeal bread, toast, or wholemeal rusks. A winter fruit soup is made by cutting wholemeal bread into bits, boiling in water until it is thoroughly soft; apples are then cut into this, and the soup is again boiled until the apples arc dissolved ; a little sugar, cinnamon, or other spice may be added. Eat when cool with wholemeal bread. A':i?.—All soups can be advantageously thickened with Food of Health, which should be added half-an-hour before serving. " VEGETABLES." TURNIPS should be boiled in plenty of water. To mash, i>ut them in a saucepan ovei the hre, with a bit of butter, or sour milk, or cream, salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar ; mash until rather dry, and serve. ^""^ ^o'^^ YOUNG BEETS, when the crop is thinned out, make a wlu "Jf of greens, cooked and served like spinach. The tender ica,\ cs oE rhubarb the same. Thov nnfJ^^^ll^''".'^"'"^'^ '^^ England as a vegetable, are very sweet and nutritious. t.Iain r 1 • '"'^^ «l<in« on. and scraped afterwards. May be either ham ^'^t-'c vinegar being added ; fried they make imitation bu?to^°^,!.^"'■^ u^^o'^p'^ water with n little salt till tender, and served with ftiKl RtcwcTl w .7 -n"^"^crcd dish with a little milk or gravy ; cut in quarters, Ml-'vnish oniona n^), ,' '!V^''^':' Vm>^T, and a little flour. The large and mild cnmt of t.a,tc rcno?voL° i T •'^"^^ l^ilcd or steamed like a pudding. A ijtoj-cccivcsaml retains the flavour. Or first boil, then bake in a paper.