Dr. Nichols' Soap. 19 BRILL'S SEA SALT. guarantee that pure nutriment is being supplied. The analysis of the chemist shows that it contains everything necessary for the perfect sustenance of life, and in such a combination and state as to be readily assimilated by the system. This can only be said of very few manu- factured articles. On analysis we find that Food of. Health contains a large proportion of cai-bonaceous materials for heating the body, and for being used up in the production of bodily and mental force. Nitrogen- ous matters are present in it in fair quantity; these allow various tissue changes to occur, and build up the muscles. Mineral matters are also found in abundance; these are useful for keeping the blood of proper consistence, and for building up the bones and teeth. The mineral matter is in such a combination that it does not throw down or deposit lime salts in the system, but rather has a tendency to dissolve excess of those already there, and thus prevent the premature stiffness of old age. Besides having such a perfect combination of elements in an organised state, we find that it contains a certain amount of insoluble fibres Avhich are useful in separating the particles of food, and so allowing the gastric and various intestinal juices to penetrate and dissolve out all its nourishment. These insoluble particles are also invaluable as they help to fill up the great length of intestines found in the human being. By their presence and also by the fact that they are mildly stimulating to the muscles in the walls of the intestines, these insoluble particles cause daily action of the bowels—a most important act for good health. When Food of Health is taken once daily, constipation and its accompanying evils of in- digestion, hsemorrhoids, varicose veins, back pains, etc., can scarcely exist Food of Health can be used in a variety of ways by both the hale person and the invalid. Healthy persons find it makes a good and wholesome porridge for the breakfast or lunch meal. It can also be made into biscuits and cakes. It forms a good thickening for soups. It makes good blanc-manges, and readily enters into combination with other articles. Wherever white flour is used this may be advantageously employed instead. Invalids will find that Food of Health made thin and with milk is far more nourishing and staying than three times the quantity of beef tea, mutton or chicken broth, or any dissolved meat or meat juice. These latter stimulate the vital forces and use up the vitality, but Food of Health nourishes without stimulating, and thus adds to the store of life in the ailing one. OP COOKING EGGS. There are a hundred ways of cooking eggs. They are boiled in the shell, poached, scrambled, fried,and made into omelets; but in whatever way they are cooked, great care should be taken not to make the white of the egg hard, and therefore difficult of digestion. The common mode of boiling eggs is a very bad one. The e<r^ is plunged into boiling water, and allowed to remain, the water stillToil- mg, from three minutes for soft, to five for hard boiled. The result is that the white, next the shell, is always hard, even when the yolk is quite soft. *^ If the eggs are placed in water at 180° Fahr., and kept at that temperature ten minutes, they will be tenderly and evenly cooked This requires a thermometer, and is some trouble.