27 Dr. Nichols' Soap. BRILL'S SEA SALT. A baked potato should be taken with a towel in both hands, as soon as done, and slightly broken. This prevents it from shrinking and becoming soggy. To bake or steam, the potatoes should be nearly of the same size. Cut in thin slices, potatoes, well cleansed, and fried in nice olive oil, are very good eating. Steamed potatoes mashed, or, better, reduced to a pulp with two strong forks, with a little cream or milk and butter, salted to taste, make a good dish, which may be enriched or varied by the addition of boiled onions, turnips, carrots, or well-stewed peas, or beans, or lentils. Savoury Potato Batter.—Cut onions and potatoes into slices, fry in oil or butter, fill a pie-dish with them; make a batter from 'whole- meal or Food of Health, egg and milk ; pour over and bake in the oven for an hour. We know a musical composer and author whose favourite dish is a compound of potato, Spanish onion, and oatmeal. He considers it the richest and most satisfying or nutritious dish in the world; and as potatoes can often be bought for |d. a pound, the onions for a penny, and oatmeal for 2d., it is not dear living. SALADS. Dietetic—Salads are invaluable in cases of gout, rheumatism ^all- stones, stone in the kidney or bladder, and in a gravelly condition of the water and impure condition of the system. Salad dressing may come in here as well as anywhere. At the period of the French Eevolution of '93, a noble emigre got a good living by going to great houses in London before dinner parties and dressino^ the salad. " In this way:—For a salad for four persons, put into a suitable dish a. teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of powdered white sugar, and a laree-. teaspoonful of made mustard, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs. Some prefer to have also one raw egg, a tablespoonful of olive oil, and" a small boiled potato, a tablespoonful of chopped shalot or onion. "Work them, well together ; then add a little vinegar—just enough to neutralise the- sugar. Mix well with the salad, which may be of lettuce, or dandelion alone, or mixed with sorrel, tomatoes, potatoes, boiled beet root etc. as sold by the greengrocers. ' ' The salad is commonly eaten just before the " sweets," but vegetarians make it a central dish, and eat it at any time after the soup or make a meal of it and bread. ' Cold potatoes may be chopped up with cold beet root, carrots turnips or cabbage, or all together, and heated with a lump of butter or a httle' oil in a frying-pan or saucepan, with salt, pepper, a sprinkle of seasoned sweet herbs to taste, and served hot. This dish is excellent eatincr and none the wor.se for a little mustard, and a few diops of lemon iuice or vinegar. •* ^ A savoury sauce for many vegetable dishes may be made by puttin^r n'^^ I r iT. fi' Po^^lfed sugar, oil, vinegar, salt, and mustard^ and .shake all together. Of the sauces sold at shops, mild ones, like the Eeadmg are to be preferred to the very hot ones like the Worcester- v^^u'^f ^^'^ sauce-but we see no harm in making food palatable by the moderate use of natural flavours.