35 Dr. Nichols' Soap. BRILL'S SEA SALT. VEGETABLE PIES. These dishes must be used sparingly as the crust is apt to cause acidity, heart- burn, and lie heavily on the stomach. Those who are troubled with spots, pimples, or any skin eruptions should abstain from them. POTATO PIE.—Slice potatoes and onions, stew with a little water until nearly done, put into a pie-dish, flavour with herbs, pepper, and salt, add a little soaked tapioca, and very little butter, cover with wholemeal crust and bake an hour. In making the least objectionable pie-crust use only a quarter of a pound of butter, or a proportionate quantity of olive oil to one pound of wheatmeal, or Food of Health. Roll or touch with the fingers as little as possible, and mix with milk instead of water. Eat this with green vegetables. Bread pudding, wheatmeal blancmange, or bread and fruit may be eaten after\^-ards. VEGETABLE PIE.—This is made like the vegetable batter, but a crust is put over the vegetables instead of the batter being poured over them. Soaked sago or tapioca adds to its nourishing qualities. Mushrooms or hard boiled eggs give variety, if desired. Bread or milk puddings may be eaten afterwards. TOMATOES AND ONION PIE,—Cut tomatoes and Spanish onions in flices, put into a pie-dish in alternate layers, add a little soaked tapioca, pepper and salt, and a little butter to taste. Put in sufficient water to make gravy, cover with whole- meal crust, bake an hour and a half, eat with baked potatoes and bread. Bread or milk puddings may be eaten afterwards. SAVOURIES. MACAEONI is one of the most nutritious farinaceous foods. It is made from Italian wheat, which contains more flesh-forming matter than butcher's meat. In the manufacture of macaroni, some of the bran is removed from the flour, but the meal left is still very rich in flesh-forming matter. As the coarser particles of the bran have been taken away, macaroni is slightly constipating, and must therefore always be eaten with green vegetables, onions, or fruit. Macaroni should always be boiled before being made into various dishes. It may be cooked in plain water, or in milk and water ; a little salt may be added by those who use it, and care' .should be taken to use just enough water to cook it in, so that when the macaroni is done, little or no fluid may be left, but if any does remain it should be saved for sauce, stock for soup, etc., as it contains valuable nutritive material. Macaroni takes from twenty minutes to an hour to cook, according to the kind used. That which is slightly yellow is to be preferred to the white, as the latter is usually poorer than the former in mineral salts and flesh-forming substances. From 2 to 4 oz. may be regarded as the amount to be allowed at a meal for grown-up persons. A very simple, nourishing, and satisfying meal can be made from macaroni plainly boiled ; it may be eaten with any kind of vegetables, or baked potatoes, or fried onions, and, if desired, with onion, caper, or parsley sauce. ' MACAEONI BATTER is made by putting cooked macaroni into a pie-dish. Make a thin batter with wholemeal flour, or Food of Health, milk, and one egg," flavour with a little pepper and salt, pour this over the macaroni, and then bake until the top is nicely browned. Eat with vegetables and sauce. MACAEONI CHEESE is made in the same way as the batter, but grated cheese IS sprinkled over the macaroni before the batter is poured on. Allow an ounce of cheese for each person. MACAEONI SAVOURY.—Put boiled macaroni into a pie-dish, fry some Spanish onions, mix these with the macaroni, pour the batter over, and bake. This makes a very tasty dish. Eat with green vegetables. Macaroni cheese or savoury should not be eaten by bilious or dysnentic nersons nor by persons troubled with any skin complaint. Those afflicted with constina.' ion' varicose veins, or piles had better not cat macaroni at all. Rice, sago, tapioca, oi' ?nlwS'"^ivhi° r,! be eaten after a macaroni dish, as both coui'scs tend to constipate Wholemeal bread pudding, or fruit and wholemeal bread, should always form the second course. o^uuiu nnJ'non^nnSt.-r'^ "l-f'^ ^^^^ when mixed with nitrogcnous tnlT; • • P 1 f °^ '^'"^ '^oth nourishing and sustaining. First wash the nee in cold or tepid water, and then throw it into boiling waterf About