14 Dr. Nichols' Food of Health. BRILL'S SEA SALT. of honour at Lord Mayors' feasts, was wheat boiled whole, and eaten with iTiilk and honey. It takes time to boil soft, but when well done is delicious and most healthy. Wheat set in a jar in the oven to swell and soften is good eating, with a little sugar and cream, and stewed raisins, stewed figs, baked or stewed apples, etc. There is one rule in cooking all ground cereals—oatmeal, wheat- meal, maizemeal, etc. The meal must be gradually stirred into boiling water, which must be kept all the time boiling, so that each grain may encounter at once a heat of 212°. This heat instantly bursts the .starch globules. When this is not done the porridge tastes raw and pasty. If the oatmeal or other meal is very coarse it does not so much matter. Coarse oatmeal may even be soaked all night, and then put into the oven to cook. How long ? The " Food of Health " sprinkled from the left hand and stirred into boiling water—kept boiling—with the right is perfectly cooked in ten minutes. Oatmeal is better if cooked twenty minutes, maizemeal and hominy require still longer cooking. Double saucepans are convenient in cooking many delicate dishes—those made with milk and eggs for example—because they are thereby kept from burning. But they are not good for porridge, because the water in the inner com- partment never boils—never has a heat of 212°. Here is a secret, however, worth more than a psnny. Raise the boil- ing point of the water in the outer compartment, and you will make that in the inner one boil. How to do it: increase its specific gravity ; add common salt, a spoonful at a time to the outer water until the inner pan boils. Then add a little more to secure brisk boiling; and keep the onter salted Avater for future iise, adding a little now and then to supply the waste by evaporation. So much for soft bread known as poriidge, and the more liquid kinds called gruels. Some of my patients find soft food harder to digest than dry. They can eat toasted brown bread, or the Food of Health Biscuits, and digest them perfectly without heartburn, sour stomach, or eructations, but find porridge more difficult. Why? For two reasons. They eat por- ridge faster, because they are not obliged to chew it, so that it has no beginning of digestion by being mixed with saliva in the mouth. Such patients should live on food that requires chewing, or eat porridge as they would bread. A good plan is to take a bit of bread Avith every spoonful of porridge, and so secure the first conditions of digestion—the use of the teeth and perfect insalivation. JNow Dr. Nichols' Food of Health Biscuits can be purchased every Where, giving to dyspeptics, consumptives, and all invalids the best food in Its purest form. Prom Mr. W. T. RAXWORTHY, 4S, Theobald Road, West Croydon :- l'<>mb]c tc.stirnonv\?H'' r'^^"™'''' tl.at T now (after thirteen years'trial) bear my yir. ■ Thf. in 1^1 •' f?'"'^'** lasliiiR boon conferred upon the Britush pubhe, used with fl T,','-^ Nichols' 'Food of Ileallh.' which wc have tbroTiKli cx(.oR«;v„ ^"V ''"'^ '■'^'"•s of adult infirmity and loss of vitality ' Pi'^k-me-^n .^tW T?, T°"J- "'^''^ O-y wife and I) have foun.l no l>cttcr ttiry «oap'Vnnc/n ;n 'r Wc have also used your ' t-ani- known-wo feel thaU^fTt were i^wZin^ ""K'^^ to be universally ^ ^ were u would be universally used.''