Dr. Nichols' Food of Health. BRILL'S SEA SALT. GINGEEBREAD.—"Wlieatmeal or flour 3 lb. ; butter 6 o?,.; brown sugar { lb. ; ■Ti'ound ginger 2 oz. ; treacle lb. ; baking powder \ oz. Rub the baking powder Tiito the flour; add the sugar (rolled) and ginger ; mix all into a paste with the treacle and butter (warm) ; and bake on warm buttered tins. SWEET SAUCE.—For Puddings or Tartu.—A pint of milk; when almost boil- ino-, stir in 1 oz. cornflour dissolved in a little cold milk. Keep stirring, and boil tea minutes ; then add two or three lumps of sugar. This is the best substitute for cream with cooked fruit. If to be used with dried fruit pudding, two bay- leaves boiled in the milk is an improvement, or some essence, but it is diflacult to ■get good essences. PUDDING SAUCE.—A dessert-spoonful of arrowroot or potato-flour ; raspberry- syi-up or lemon-flavour ; sugar, spice, and ^ pint water. Moisten the arrowroot in a little cold water ; pour on the rest of the water, boiling ; stir till clear ; add the -sugar and syrup, or flavour by rubbing a lump of sugar on the rind of a lemon. The juice also will improve it. DESSERT.—This is only mentioned to be condemned, as it leads to over-eating. Make a meal of fruit, or nuts, or both with bread, but do not have a good meal of something else and then eat these afterwai-ds. If you do, sooner or later you will suffer for it. BEVERAGES. "WHAT SHALL WE DRINK?" Chemically and physiologically—that is, naturally—the only real drink is water. Pure water alone is the basis of the salivary, gastric, and pancreatic secretions -which dissolve all food, and aid its conversioQ into blood, and thence into all the tissues of the body. This needful water is found in milk, the juices of fruits, and more or less m all vegetables used for food, some of which contain 90 per cent, of pure water filtered by the spongioles which absorb it from the earth. What we add to water is food —sugar, milk, fruit juices, or more or less deleterious substances, cocoa, tea, coffee, and alcohol. Alcohol is a poison that demoralises and destroys great numbers : tea and coffee excite the nerves, and are often causes of disease. ITiose who live upon a bland vegetable diet, taking very little salt, and eating rfreely of fruits, may have no need of more water than they contain. The proper indication that more is needed is thirst, and thirst is best allayed and the want of •the system supplied by j>ure soft ivater—the only natural dnnk and the best •of medicines. j. When the water is hard or impure, the best resource is filtered ram water, or distilled water. LEMON WATER is made by squeezing the juice of half a lemon into a tumbler •of warm or cold water ; to this is added just enough sugar to take off the tartness. ^Some peel the lemon first, then cut in slices, pour boiling water over the slices, .-L,'ratc in a little of the peel, and add sugar to taste. COCOA This is best made by putting half a teaspoonful of any good coco^ •such as Cadbury's, into a breakfast cup ; boiling water is then poured over this and stirred ; one tablespoonful of milk must be added to each cup, and one teaspoonful •of sugar where sugar is used, or one or two teaspoonfuls of condensed milk and no •extra sugar. BRAN TEA.-Mix an ounce of bran with a pint of water ; boil for half an 'iour, -^ttrain, and drink cool. A little orange or lemon juice is a pleasant adrtition. When this is used ns a drink at breakfast or tea, a little milk and sugar may ue •added to it. CHOCOLATE.-Allow one bar of chocolate for each cup of fluid. Break tlic chocolate in bits, p„t, into a saucepan, add a little Iwiling water, put on the nrc, and stir until tlm. chocolate is dissolved, then add rest of fluid, and poi\ ^ o\ .i minutcH. I'our the chocolate into cups, ana add about one tiibl&spoonful ot irc.su milk to each cup, but no extra sugar. The milk may be added to the cliocoJote whilst boiling if desired.