26 Dr. Nichols' Food of Health. BRILLi'S SEA SALT. pay their cost in freshly ground wheat, coarse or fine for bread or porridge. Salt should be used, if at all, in careful moderation. Its excess is injurious. It causes or aggravates some diseases, and many believe they are " better without it." Peppers and spices may excite and irritate, but their chief danger is in the temptation they give to excess. The flavoiu' of stews and soups may be improved by a slight addition of the milder sauces—like the " Reading," or sweet herbs, celery, etc.— and almost every soup or stew is the better for a little vinegar. Boiled rice, boiled macaroni, or vermicelli, or pearl barley, or Food of Health, may be added to thin vegetable soups with advantage. Pea flour, or lentil flour, facilitates the making of soups; but it is to be feared that most of such flours are like most mustards, pretty heavily adulterated with cheap farinas, which are not, however, unhealthy. "With a hand-miU you can make your own. Celery—roots, stalks, leaves, or seed—gives a nice flavour to soups. All the leaves may be saved to dry or bottle. Sweet herbs may be used with discretion. All delicate flavours should be added late in the cooking, or they will be dissipated. "When a soup is too thin it can be thickened by adding a little corn starch, or wheat flour, or Food of Health, stirred into cold milk, and then to the boiling soup. Some prefer a beaten egg, stii-red in just before serving. In both soups and stews different vegetables require diff'erent periods for cooking. Carrots need two hours ; celery an hour; turnips half an hour ; shalots ten minutes ; potatoes according to size. Skim-milk and butter-milk, both rich in flesh-forming materials, may enter into the composition of vegetable soups with advantage. A little oil or a lump of butter also improves the flavour. POTATOES. The potato is the best gift the new world gave to the old. Smokers think the best was tobacco, but that is their' blunder. The Irish are sometimes blamed for living almost entirely on the potato, but they had «ome excuse. Nothing else would give them so large a crop, and that it is good food they have shown by producing large, strong men and most beautiful women. A baked potato closely resembles bread, and to simply bake them in their jackets is one of the best modes of cooking them. If thoroughly washed with a good brush, the skins, and what lies jnsfe under, are tho best part of them, being richest in the mineral salts wliich make them so good an anti-scorbutic, which salts may be wasted by caroless peeling and too watery cooking. Next best to baking is to steam tliem in their jackets, or with them brushed or carefully scraped ofl". A proper steamer can be bought of any tinman, or ho will make you a false bottom full of holes for your pot or saucepan. A few pebbles and a plate will answer the purpose, with a little water below it, to make the steam. Tf boiled, it is well to turn off the water just before the potatoes are <lonf), wliich i.s wlion you can put a fork through the largest, and let bako a bit, in the hot kettle for a fini.sli.