Dr. Nichols' Soap. 13 BRILL'S SEA SALT\ Decorticated bread, made of wheat with the outer skin rubbed ofF, may be best for a few persons with irritable bowels, but for most, and for all in the least liable to constipation, the whole meal is best. The usual mode of making bread light is by fermentation, a process of decay. By it a portion of the starch is first converted into suo-ar, then into alcohol and carbonic acid, the globules of which make bread light, and if the fermentation is continued, into acid, which makes it sour. Unleavened bread is sweeter and more nutritious than leavened. The sooner fermentation is checked by heat, the better the bread; but bakers want to make big loaves, and use alum to keep them from becoming sour. _ Good, wholesome bread is made of rye, barley, and maize, or their intermixtures. Yankees revel in Boston Brown Bread, made of rye and Indian corn maize. Barley bread used to be common in Cumberland • oat cakes are still eaten in Scotland and Lancashire. ' Clean, nice bread is the aerated, mixed with water into which carbonic acid has been absorbed under pressure. Mix a basin of meal or flour qmckly with a bottle of soda water, and you have aerated bread. Baking powder, thoroughly mixed with the meal, when the mass is wetted, generates carbonic acid. If it be made of pure bicarbonate of soda and tartaric acid in exactly neutralising proportions, it will make light and tasty bread. ' " Dr. Nichols' Bread-raiser " is simply a carefully-made baking powde^ combining the best materials in accurate proportions. Light thin cakes, called " gems," are made of the whole meal of wheat by beating air into a thin batter of meal, as one beats e<^gp The batter is then dropped upon hot irons and quickly baked. These cakes are crisp and dehcious. Scotch griddle or girdle cakes, made of oatmeal spread thin and baked over the fire, are similar. American "Johnny cake" and "hoe cake" is made of Indian corn-maize meal mixed with water, and spread about an inch thick on a shallow tin or the broad negro hoe, and baked by being set before the fire, and eaten hot. The best bread is made of good wheat freshly ground and quickly baked. Perhaps the very best is that made of fresh meal, not too fine simply mixed with water, and baked in the most primitive way as it was before the tent of Abraham. To this day, the common bread of the East is made of the whole meal of wheat, ground by the women in a hand-mill every morning, mixed with water and baked at the fire This IS the principal food of some of the hardiest and strongest men in the world. Such bread, with a handful of dates or figs, or a bunch of grapes, makes a pure, delicious, and most healthful diet. Porridge is a kind of bread boiled instead of baked Oatmeal porridge IS the favounte breakfast of Scotland, and may be found over most of the north of England and Ireland. In America a similar dish called "mush, is made of Indian corn meal or hominy, or coarsely ground wheat meal. The most perfect mush or porridge in the world especially for dyspeptics, or persons disposed to constipation is that made of the "Eood of Health," which differs from all other cerjfoods by its peculiar mode of preparation. "Erumenty," a favourite food of our ancestors, which had the place