28 Dr. Nichols' Food of Health. SAVOURY SAUCES. Flesh eaters have the gravy of meat to eat with their vegetables, and when they give up the use of flesh they are often at a loss for a good substitute. Sauces may be useful in more ways than one. When not too highly spiced or seasoned they help to prevent thirst, as they supply the system with fluid, and when made with the liquor in which vege- tables have been boiled they retain many valuable salts which would otherwise have been lost. When foods are eaten in a natural condition no sauces are required, but when food is changed by cooking many persons require it to be made more appetising, as it is called. The use of sauces is thus seen to be an aid to help down plain and wholesome food, and being fluid they cause the food to be more thoroughly broken up and made into a porridgy mass before it is swallowed. From a health point of view artificial sauces are not good, but if made as I direct very little harm will result. Wheatmeal Sauce.—Mix milk and water together in equal propor- tions, add a grated onion, and boil; rub a little fine wheatmeal flour or Food of Health into a paste with cold water. Mix this with the boiling milk and water, and let it thicken; add a little pepper and salt to taste. Eat this with vegetables. Parsley Sauce.—This is made as the above, but some finely chopped parsley is added five minutes before serving. Caper Sauce.—Leave out the onions, otherwise make as wheatmeal sauce. Add capers and cook ten minutes after adding them. This goes very well with plain boiled macaroni, or macaroni batter, or macaroni with turnips, etc. Boiled Onion Sauce.—This is made as wheatmeal sauce, but plenty of boiled and chopped onions are mixed in it. This goes well with any plain vegetables. Tomato Sauce.—Cut up fresh or tinned tomatoes, cook with water and finely chopped onions; when done rub through a sieve, boil up again, thicken with wheatmeal flour or Food of Health made into a paste with water. Add a little butter, pepper, and salt. Eat with vegetables or savoury dishes. Brown Gravy.—Put a tabiespoonful of butter or olive oil into a fry- ing pan or saucepan, make it hot, dredge in a tablespoonful of fine wheatmeal flour or Food of Health, brown this, then add boiling water ■with pepper and salt to taste. A little mushroom or walnut ketchup may be added if desired. Eat with vegetables or savouries. Fried Onion Sauce.—Chop fine an onion, fry, add wheatmeal or Food of Health, and make into a sauce like brown gravy. Herb Sauce.—Make like brown gravy, and add mixed herbs a httle b?foro .serving. The last tluoe .sauces mu.st be used with great caution or not at^all l)y tlio.se who are troubled with heartburn, acidity, biliousness, or SKua oniptions of any kind. Tlio water in which vegetables (except cabbage or potatoes) have been >»iioa 18 better for making sauces than ordinary water. BRILL'S SEA