Dr. Nichols' Food of Health. 30 BHILL'S SEA SALT. RECIPES FOR BREAD AND OTHER SIMPLE AND HEALTHY FARINACEOUS PREPARATIONS. WHOLE WHEATMEAL BREAD.—Baking powder J oz.; wheatmeal 2 lb.; a little salt; cold water 1 pint. Mix the powder well with the meal, then pour the water on gradually, stirring it quickly with a wooden spoon into a light dough of such consistency as will scarcely bear kneading, which it will not require. Put it into a tin, or make it into a round loaf, and bake it immediately. "WHOLEMEAL YEAST BREAD Put in a bread mug about 7 lb. wholemeal flour. Make a hole in the centre of the flour, and into this pour a quart of warm water, in which about ^ oz. of German yeast has been dissolved. Gradually mix flour and yeast together until well mixed into a dough, and allow to ferment ar. hour before the fire. Then add a little more warm water, and a little salt, 1 or 2 tablespoonfuls, according to taste. Knead well again, let stand another hour in front of the fire, then fill your bread tins from this, and bake from an hour and a half to two hours. This bread is not spongy and light, but it is wholesome. FRUMENTY, once a kings' dish, as we know from the tale of Tom Thumb, and a food of our robust ancestors in autumn, is wheat soaked over night, and boiled until it cracks open. Eat with honey, sugar and milk, or treacle, or stewed raisins. DURHAM PUDDING.—Soak 1 lb. of wheat in 2 quarts of water for twelve hours; then stew in a jar in the oven till tender; add ^ lb. raisins, or other fruit, and bake till done. FRITTERS, or Fried Cakes, are made of wheatmeal, buckwheat, maizemeal, or best of all, of Food of Health. Mix baking powder with the meal, wet with milk or water to a soft batter, and fry in oil or butter. Eat with golden or any fruit syrup. OATMEAL PORRIDGE.—Sprinkle and stir oatmeal into boiling water, keep briskly boiling, until of the consistence of cream, and boil twenty minutes. Eat with milk, and flavour with a little salt, if eaten. WHEATMEAL PORRIDGE.—Same as above; but care that the water boils is TOore necessary. Wheat cooks in ten minutes. Eat with milk and stewed fruit, or baked apples and bread. Wheatmeal, Wheaten Groats, or Dr. Nichols' Food of Health, prevent and cure ■constipation, and are prepared as above found. OATMEAL STEWED.—Put into a moderate oven, in a stone jar, I lb. of rough Scotcli oatmeal with a quart of water. Take out and stir up at intervals. It requires to be in the oven for about one hour and a half ; it is then delicious, and eats like cream. It will keep sweet and fresh three days. OATMEAL PUDDING.—Add a pint of round oatmeal to a quart of new milk warmed. Stir the oatmeal into the milk, and let them stand all night. Butter a basin, put in the oatmeal .and milk, stirring in a spoonful of baking powder, then tic over a well-floured cloth, and boil fully two hours. If eaten as a pudding, serve with custard sauce, with black currant jam sauce, or with treacle sauce. If eaten as meat—and good " meat " it is—then use tomato sauce. Tinned tomatoes cost 7(1. to [)d. a tin ; a quarter of a tin, fried with butter, flour, salt, and water for ten minutes, will be enough for three or four adults, or half-a-dozen cliiklreii, giving a meal of the most wholesome and nutritious character at the lowest possible cost.—ir. Gib.w,i Ward. 8TE FOR PIES AND PUDDINGS.-A pound of flour or wheatmeal, or Food of Health 2 oz. butter, a Icaspoonful of baking powder, and 2 oz. powdered white sugar. Mix the baking powder well with the flour ; rub in the butter ; add B pint wa er; mix with a wooden spoon, but do not knead it; then take out of the bowl ana roll, fold in three and roll af^ain, and if not sufficiently smooth, roll a third time.—A good short crust can be made with 6 oz. flour, 3 oz. ground rice, 1 oz. nom i '"^'Y' "".'^ '^"•'tc. Hub together : mix with a little cold milk.—Some 2 07 oiFf'' ,^?''n° "'^ pastry. The best Lucca oil should be obtained ; 5»thorm.cr°T,iv!i-?'-V''-, ^^"^ "''^"^^ °* oil well into the flour, SO that the oil ""gify tlistnbutcrt among the dry flour ; then mix with water and roll out.