London: LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, and LONGMANS. acton's cookery-book thoroughly revised. New Edition, enlarged, with numerous Plates and Woodcuts (many additional) in fcp. 8vo. price 7s. 6c?. MODERN COOKERY FOR PRIVATE FAMILIES. Eeduced to a System of Easy Practice in a Series of carefully tested Eeceipts, in which the Principles of Baron Liebig and other eminent writers have been as much as possible applied and explained. By ELIZA ACTON. Newly revised and much enlarged Edition. OPINIONS OF TEE NEW EDITION. " This is indisputably the most copious and complete work that has yet met the lii'ht on the subject of cookery. Mrs. Rundell and her fair associates must all do homage to Miss Acton, who has provided a volume entitled to the lofty designation of an encyclopaedia. We have here no fewer than thirty-two chapters on soups, flsh, Bhellflsh, gravies, sauces, salads, forcemeats, boiling, roasting, &c.; beef, veal, mutton and lamb, pork, poultry,'game, potted meat3,!vegetables, pastry, omelets, boiled pud- dings, baked puddings, eggs and milk, sweet dishes, preserves, pickles, cakes, confec- tionery, dessert dishes, syrups, ooflfee, chocolate, bread, foreign and Jewish cookery, with a chapter on the mysteries of trussing ; to all which is added or prefixed a disi Bertation on carving, comprising no fewer than twenty-six cuts or plates, presenting the divers articles to be cut or carved, and the method of going about it. . • . The preparation of this volume may be viewed as the performance of a great public ser- vice. As to young ladies, they should make it their study : They will find more here that concerns the wife and mother than in all the romance with which the shelves of our circulating libraries groan." Beitish Bannbb. " A new and greatly enlargedledition of Eliza Acton's Cookery has just appeared,!em- bellished with numerous woodcuts, and enlarged by the addition of a great number o^ newfreceipts. We need not say that this is one of the most useful of our English publi- cations on domestic economy containing as it does all that the housekeepers or cooks of the middle classes can require to know. The authoress informs the public that in the present edition she has availed herself of the instructions upon cookery given by men of science, and especially by Baron Liebig ; we'can only express a hope that our cooks will appreciate the advice. Miss Acton adds what is of much more interest, thalt efforts are being made, by the establishment of well-conducted schools, for the early and eflicient training of our female domestic servants. Let us trust that her expec- tations may soon be realised, and that we sliall be provided with a race of cooks not too ignorant to use the good advice which they find in the many good cookery books now within everybody's reach. We would even commend the subject to the Board of Health, as one which most especially comes within their line of operation ; for it is of little use to purify the atmosphere we breathe until general health is improved by rendering what we eat conducive to nutrition rather than to indigestion. In no counti-y do better raw materials of food exist than in England ; nowhere can be found better flour, better.meat, better fish,better vegetables, we will even add better fruits. Nowhere in the world, notwithstanding these advantages, is to be found worse cookery than among tour middle classes. But we hope and believe that some improvement in this respect is beginning to take place, and I'above all that some serious attempt will be made to teach our lower orders how to economise) and best employ the materials of food which they possess. Had our peasantry been even de- cently taught the rudiments of good plain cooking, we should never have heard the heartrending tales of starvation at Scutari caused by the uneatable provisions sup- plied to our neglected troops. Gaedenek's Chroniclk.