1 22 Baked and Boiled Puddings. two ounces of butter ; two ounces and a half of sugar ; puff paste. Boil in a quart of new milk tlie peel of a large lemon cut as thin as possible, then strain it tlirough muslin, and stir in the sugar and sago. Set it over a slow fire, and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Tlien put it into a basin to cool. Add the butter and the eggs well beaten. Put it into a pie- lish with some rich puff paste round the dge, and bake it for an hour in a moderate 3ven. Semolina Pudding, Time, ten minutes. 584. A pint and a half of new milk ; half a teacupful of semolina ; orange mar- malade. Put a pint and a half of milk over the fire, and when boiling stir in half a cupful of semolina, and continue to stir it over the fire for ten minutes ; then put it into a mould to cool; turn it out, and serve with jam or marmalade round it. It is delicious iced. Strawberry and Crumb Pudding. Time, to bake, half an hour. 585. A quart of new milk ; four eggs ; a little nutmeg ; two ounces of sugar ; one small pot of strawberry jam ; half a pound of bread-crumbs. Batter a pie-dish, and put a small pot of strawberry jam at the bottom, then a good layer of bread-crumbs. Well beat four eggs, stir into them two ounces of powdered sugar, and a little grated nutmeg ; add a quart of new milk, and stir it over the fire until it is sufficiently thick, pour it over the preserve very gradually, and bake the pudding in a very moderate oven. A Plain Swiss Pudding. Time, to boil, four hours. 586. Eight ounces of bread-crumbs ; six ounces of beef-suet; half a pound of apples ; six ounces of sugar ; juice and peel of one lemon ; and a pinch of salt. Chop very fine six ounces of beef-suet, and mix it well with eight ounces of bread- crumbs, half a pound of apples, pared, cored, and minced fine ; add eight ounces of powdered white sugar, the juice of one lemon, and the peel grated, with a pinch of salt. Well mix all the above ingredients, and put it into a buttered mould, boil it, and when done, turn it out and serve. Cheap Spongecake Pudding. Time, to bake, half an hour. 587. Three penny spongecakes ; peel and juice of half a lemon; one egg; a small piece of butter; a very little sugar and milk. Soak the cakes in a little milk, and mix them with the juice and graetd peel of h.alf a lemon, a piece of butter, a very little loaf sugar, and one egg. Beat all together, and bake it in a quick oven. Spongecake Pudding. Time, one hour. 588. Cherries; almonds, or raisins ; some small spongecakes soaked in wine ; and some rich custard. Butter a mould thickly, stick it all over with dried cherries, almonds, or raisins. Fill the mould three parts w'ith small spongecakes soaked in wine, and fill up the mould with a rich custard. Then butter a piece of paper, put it on the mould, tie it securely over, and boil it. Plain Souffle Pudding. Time, half an hour. 589. Three-quarters of a pint of new milk : two ounces of butter ; two spoonfuls of flour ; three eggs. Put three-quarters of a pint of new milk into a stewpan, and when it boils add two spoonfuls of flour mi.xed smooth with a little milk ; boil it up again, and set it to cool. Then take the yolks of three eggs well beaten, stir them in, and the white! whipped to a very stiff froth. When all are thoroughly well mixed together, butter a baking dish, put it in, and bake it in a quick oven. Plain Suet Pudding. Time, two hours and a half to three hours. 590. One pound of flour ; four ounces of beef-suet ; a pinch or two of salt; half a pint of water. Chop the suet very fine, and mix it with the flour, and a pinch or two of salt, and work the whole into a smooth paste with about half a pint of water. Tie the pudding in a cloth, the shape of a bolster, and when done, cut it in slices and put butter between each slice. Or boil it in a buttered basin, turn it out when done, and serve it whole and without butter. One or two beaten eggs added to the above, with a less quantity of water, may be used. Plain Tapioca Pudding. Time, one hour. 591. One ounce and a half of tapioca ; a pint of milk ; three eggs ; sugar to taste; grated lemon peel. Soak an ounce and a half of tapioca in cold water until soft, stirring it now and then; well-beat three eggs with sugar to