Mushroom Ketchup—Hot Sauce—Lemon Vinegar. 63 ^lallots cut into pieces, a head of garlic, hvo quarts of vinegar, and the lialf pound of salt; let them stand for a fortnight, stirring them twice a day. Strain off the liquor, put it into <a stewpan with the anchovies, whole pepper, half an ounce of cloves, and a quarter of an ounce of mace ; boil it, skimming it well. Strain it off, and when cold pour it clear from any sediment into small bottles, cork it down closely, and store it in a dry place. The sediment can be used for flavouring sauces. To Make Mushroom Ketchup. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 198. One peck of mushrooms; half a pound of salt; half an ounce ofblack pepper ; a quarter of an ounce of all-spicc ; half an ounce of ginger and two blades of mace to every quart of liquor. Break the mushrooms into a large earthen pan, strew over them half a pound of salt; place them in a cool oven all night. The ne.\t day strain off the liquor, measure and boil it for a quarter of an hour. To each quart of liquor add one ounce of pepper, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, half an ounce of ginger, and two blades of mace, and let it boil quickly for nearly half an hour. When cold put it into bottles, cork them down, and dip the necks into resin. Mixed with equal proportions of soy and lemon pickle, it is a delicious flavouring for any gravy. Hot Sauce, resembling "Worcesterahire Sauce. ' Time, ten days. 199. Three-quarters of an ounce of Cay- enne pepper; one quart of vinegar; two tablespoonfuls of soy ; three cloves of garlic ; five anchovies ; three cloves of shallots. Mix well and rub through a sieve three- quarters of an ounce of Cayenne pepper, two tablespoonfuls of soy, three cloves of garlic pounded, five anchovies bruised fine, and three cloves of shallots pounded, add one quart of vinegar. Strain, and keep it corked up for ten days, then bottle it up for use. It can be strained or not, as preferred. Lemon Vinegar. Time, nine weeks. 200. Two dozen and a half of lemons ; four ounces of garlic ; one handful of horse- radish ; one gallon of vinegar ; one ounce of mace ; half an ounce of cloves ; one ounce of nutmeg ; half an ounce of Cayenne ; half a pint of mustard seed. Grate off the outer rinds of the lemons with a piece of glass, cut them across but do not quite separate them; work in as much salt as you can with the fingers; spread them on a large pewter dish, and cover them quite over with salt ; then put them into a cool oven three or four times until the juiee is dried into the peels ; they must be hard but not burned. Then put to them the garlic peeled, the horseradish sliced, and again place them in the oven till there is no moisture left. As the salt dis- solves work in more. Put the vinegar into a stewpan with the cloves pounded, the mace beaten fine, the nutmeg cut into slices, and the Cayenne and mustard slightly bruised, and tied in a muslin bag. Boil all these ingredients with the vinegar, and pout it boiling hot on the lemons. The jar must be w'ell closed, and let stand by the fire for six days, shaking it well every day. Then tie it down and let it stand for thres months to take off the bitterness. When it is bottled, the pickle must be put into a hair or lawn sieve two or three times, till it is as fine as possible. After the lemon pickle is cleared off, add about one quart of boiled vinegar to the remaining ingredients, and after ii; has stood for some time it is excellent for hashes, &c. &c. This pickle may be put into white sauce, one spoonful being sufficient; two spoon- fuls for brown sauce. It is also good for fish, fowls, or any made dish, care always being taken to put it in before the sauce is mixed with cream, or the acid may curdle it. Nasturtiums used as Capers. 201. Besides being great ornaments to our flower-gardens, nasturtiums supply us with a useful adjunct to frugal tables. They save the expense of capers. Gather the seeds ("cheeses” country children call them) of the nasturtiums, and keep them a few days on a paper tray ; then put them into empty pickle bottles, pour boiling vinegar over them, and leave them to cool. When cold, cover them closely down. They will be fit to eat the next summer in lieu of capers, with boiled mutton. To Make Vinegar. Time, a quarter of an hour to boil. 202. To one pound of ebarse sugar one gallon of water; a piece of toasted breoid ; two tablespoonfuls of yeast. Mix the sugar and water well together and boil it for a quarter of an hour, skim- ming it well all the time. Then put the liquor in a cup. When it is about new milk warm, toast a piece of bread, wet it well with yeast, and put it in the liquor. Next day pour it into a clean cask and set it in