Sauces. a cupful of cream or milk ; a very little Cayenne, and salt. Remove the dark shell of the chestnuts, and scald them until the inner skin can be easily taken off. Then put them into a stewpan with the stock, the lemon peel cut very thin, and a very little Cayenne pepper and salt. Let it simmer until the chestnuts are quite soft. Rub or press it througii a sieve, add the seasoning and cream, and let it simmer for a few minutes, stirring it constantly, but taking care it does not boil. Common Onion Sauce. , rime, nearly half an hour. 181. Four or si.v nice white onions, ac- cording to size ; half a pint of hot millc ; one ounce of butter ; saltspoonful of salt, and pepper to your taste. Peel the onions and boil them till they are tender, press the water from them, and chop them very fine. Make half a pint of milk hot, pulp the onions into it, add a little piece of butter, a saltspoonful of salt, and pepper to your taste. Maitre-d’Hotel Sauce. Time, one minute to simmer. 182. Half a pint of melted butter; one teaspoonful of chopped parsley; one lemon ; Cayenne and salt to taste. Melt the butter, add to it the strained juice of a lemon, the parsley and seasoning, and let it just boil. Horseradish Sauce for Boiled Mutton or Koast Beef, rime, two or three minutes. 183. A wineglass of good cream ; a tea- spoonful of mustard ; a stick of horse- radish ; half a tumbler of vinegar ; a little salt. Mix a stick of grated horseradish with a wineglass of cream, a teaspoonful of mustard, and a pinch of salt, then stir in half a lumbler of the best vinegar, and a pinch of salt. Bruise them with a spoon, and when thoroughly mixed together, serve in a tureen. Mint Sauce for Boast Lamb. 184. Two tablespoonfuls of chopped green mint ; one tablespoonful of pounded sugar : and a quarter of a pint of vinegar. Pick and wash the green mint very clean, chop it fine, mix the sugar and vinegar in a sauce tureen, put in the mint, and let it stand. Tomato Sauce. Time, one hour and five minutes. 185. Six tomatoes; half an ounce of celery ; one ounce of butter; one ounce of 61 bacon ; half an onion ; a bay-leaf; a bunch of thyme ; a little salt, pepper, Cayenne ; half a pint of broth ; and a little flour. Take out the seeds and remove the stalks from six tom.atoes, put them into a stewpan with half an ounce of celery, one ounce of butter, one ounce of bacon, half an onion cut into slices, a bay- leaf, a bunch of thyme, pepper, salt, and Cayenne ; stew it gently until tender, then stir in the flour, moisten with half a pint of broth, boil it up for flve or six minutes, strain it through a sieve, and then put it back into the stewpan to simmer until rather thick. Serve it with meat or poultry. Arrowroot Sauce for Plum Puddings. Time, fifteen minutes. 186. One dessertspoonful of arrowroot; two of sifted sugar ; a glass of white wine ; juice of half a lemon ; half a pint of water. Rub very smoothly a dessertspoonful of arrowroot in a little water, or in a glass of white wine, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, add the pounded sugar, and pour gradually in half a pint of water. Stir it very quickly over a clear fire until it boils. Serve it with plum pudding. This sauce may be flavoured with any- thing you prefer. White Wine Sauce. Time, five minutes. 187. Half a pint of melted butter ; four teaspoonfuls of white wine ; the peel of half a lemon ; sugar to your taste. Add to half a pint of good melted butter four spoonfuls of white wine, the grated rind of half a lemon, and the sugar pounded and sifted. Let it boil, and serve with plum, bread, or boiled batter pudding, &c. Sauce for Polka Pudding. Time, five minutes. 188. Three ounces of fresh butter; one cupful of powdered sugar ; three glasses of sherry. Beat the three ounces of butter with the sugar to a cream ; add to it three glasses of sherry ; mix it well. Boil it, stirring it in- cessantly in one direction till it is done. Serve it boiling hot. The pudding is served quite cold with hot plates. To Mix Mustard. 189. Two ounces of mustard ; boiling water ; half a teaspoonful of sugar. Mix the mustard and sugar with boiling water till it is thick and smooth, .add the water slowly to the powder. The sugar may be omitted, but we prefer it, as it softens the mustard.