70 To Boil and Stew Mutton, To Roast a Neck of Kutton. Time, one hour. 239. Take four pounds of the middle or the best end of a neck of mutton, trim off part of the fat, cut the bones short, and see that it is Ihorovghly jointed. Place it at some distance from a nice brisk fire, dredge it with flour, and baste it frequently. Just before it is done, set it nearer to the fire, and dust a little salt over it. Pour off the drip- ping, and put a little boiling water into the pan. Dish up the joint, and strain the gravy over it. Seia'e it with currant jelly, separately. Mutton Kebohbed. rime, according to the weight. 240. Loin of mutton ; a small nutmeg, pepper, and salt; some bread-crumbs ; a bunch of sweet herbs ; yolks of three eggs ; half a pint of gravy ; two spoonfuls of ketchup ; a teaspoonful of flour ; two ounces of butter. Take all the fat out of a loin of mutton,' and off the outside also if too fat, and re- move the skin. Joint it at every bone. Mi.'f half a small nutmeg grated with a little pepper and salt, bread-crumbs, and minced herbs. Dip the steaks into the yolks of ' three eggs, and sprinkle the above mi.vture all over them. Then place the steaks to- gether as they were before they were cut Iisunder, tie them, and fasten them on a small spft. Roast them at a quick fire, set a dish under, and baste them with a good piece of butter and the liquor that comes from the meat; and throw some more of the seasoning over. When done enough, take it up, and lay it in a dish ; have half a pint of good gravy ready besides that in the dish, and put into it two spoonfuls of ketchup, and rub down a teaspoonful of flour with it. Let this boil, and pour it over the mutton, but first skim off the fat well. Mind to keep the meat hot till tfie gravy is quite ready. Boiled Leg of Mutton. Time, a quarter of an hour to the pound. 241. Cut off the shank bone, trim the knuckle, and wash and wipe it very clean. Then put it into a saucepan with enough cold water for it to swim in, set it over a good fire. As the scum rises, skim it off care- fully. Boil the joint for two hours and a half, or according to its weight. When tlic joint is taken up, put a frill of cut paper round the shank bone. Mash some turnips with a little piece of butter and cream, and form them into the shape of eggs, and gar- nish the edge of the dish alternately with the turnip balls and with cairots cut into circular forms. Serve caper sauce in a tureen. To Stew a Neck of Mutton. Time, two and a half to three hours. 242. Four or five pounds of neck of mut- ton ; rather more than a pint of water ; a little Cayenne ; pepper and salt; two sprigs of parsley. Trim the fat from a neck of mutton, and put the latter into a stewpan with a little pepper and salt, and rather more than a pint of water ; let it simmer very gently. About twenty minutes before it is served, take nearly all the broth from the meat, and when , it is cold skim off the fat, add a little Cay- enne pepper, and two sprigs of chopped parsley to the broth, let it boil for twenty iminutes, thicken the gravy with a little but- ter rolled in flour, and pour it over the meat when sent to table. The exact quantities of water and season- 'ing must be regulated by the size of the joint, as some necks of mutton weigh sLx or seven pounds, in which case an extra half hour must be allowed for it to simmer. Breast of Mutton and Green Peas. Time, two hours and a half. 243. A breast of mutton ; one quart of green peas | a bunch of sweet herbs ; pep- per and salt to taste ; one shallot or onion. Select a breast of mutton not too fat, and cut it into small square pieces , dredge it with flour, and fry it a fine brown in butter ; then add the herbs and shallot or onion cut into thin slices ; just cover the whole with water, and set it over a slow fire to stew until the meat is perfectly tender. Take out the meat, skim off all the fat from the gravy, and strain it over the meat into the stewpan, and make the whole very hot. Just before serving add a quart of young green peas, previously boiled, or add them with the strained gravy, and let the whole boil gently until the peas are done. Mutton Cutlets with Tomato Sauce. Time, twelve minutes. 244. Some cutlets from the neck of mut- ton ; two ounces of butter ; a little pepper and salt. Trim the neck of mutton before you cut off the cutlets [i.e., cut off from the joint the scrag and three inches of the rib bone); then take off the cutlets, shape them by chopping off the thick part of the chine- bone, beat them flat to about a quarter of an inch in thickness with a chopper, cut oft an inch of fat from the top of the rib bone. Season them with pepper and salt. Beat