11" Baked and Boiled Puddings. a quarter of a pint of milk; one ounce or more of candied peel. Mi.x the milk and treacle first ; put the soda witli the suet, flour, and peel; rub all these together dry. Pour the milk and treacle in, and boil it in a basin. Ginger Pudding. Time, three hours. 546. A quarter of a pound of suet ; .tialf a pound of flour ; a quarter of a pound of moist sugar; one good teaspoonful of ground ginger. Chop a quarter of a pound of beef-suet very fine ; mi.x it with the flour, sugar, and ginger. Mix all dry. and put it into aw'ell- buttered basin. Boil it three hours, and, when done, turn it out, and serve with white wine sauce. Golden Pudding. Time, two hours and a half. 547. Quarter of a pound of flour ; quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs ; quarter of a pound of suet; quarter of a pound of sugar ; quarter of a pound of marmalade ; one egg. Mix these ingredients well together, put them in a buttered basin, and boil for the specified time. To Make Hasty Puddings. Time, twenty minutes. 548. Half a pint of milk ; one egg ; one heaped tablespoonful of flour, and a little salt ; half a teacupful of cold milk. Put half a pint of fresh milk into a sauce- pan to boil : beat an egg, yolk and white together well, add to it a good tablespoon- ful of flour and a little salt, beat the egg and flour together with a little eold milk to make a batter. Pour it to the boiling milk, and keep stirring it until it is well boiled togetlier. Oatmeal Hasty Pudding. Time, twenty minutes. 549. Half a pint of boiling milk ; half a teacupful of cold milk ; one dessertspoonful of flour : one of oatmeal; a little salt. Boil half a pint of milk, beat the flour and oatmeal into a paste with cold milk, add to it the boiling milk, and keep stirring it always in the same direction till it is done. Jam Eoly-poly Pudding. Time, two liours. 550. Half a pound of suet crust; half a pound of jam. Make a light suet crust and roll it out rather thin, spread any jam over it, leaving a small margin of paste where the pudding joins. Roll it round and tic it in a floured cloth, put it into boiling water, and in two hours it will be ready to serve. Josephine Puddings. Time, half an hour. 551. The weight of three eggs with their shells on in flour, sugar, and butter ; two small lemons. Beat the butter to a cream, then add gradually the sugar pounded, .and the grated lemon peel ; stir in the eggs well beaten, and then the flour dried before the fire. Beat all well together, lialf fill some well buttered cups or moulds, with the mixture, and put them into the oven the moment the flour is added. Bake them in a quick oven for half an hour, or longer should it be a slow one. Serve them quickly with wine sauce poured over them. Plain Boiled Lemon Suet Pudding. Time, to boil, three hours and a half. 55ii. Three-quarters of a pound of bread- crumbs ; six ounces of beef-suet; four ounces of flour; a quarter of a pound of fine moist sugar ; one large or two small lemons ; three eggs ; and milk. Add to three-quarters of a pound of bread-crumbs, six ounces of suet finely chopped, the sugar, and the peel of the lemon minced or grated, with the juice strained ; mix all thoroughly together, and then stir into it three well-beaten eggs, and sufficient milk to m.ike the whole into a thick batter, pour it into a buttered mould, and boil it for three hours and a half. Serve with sifted sugar over it, wine sauce in a tureen. Aunt Louisa’s Pudding. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 553. One pint of grated bread ; a quart of milk ; six ounces of loaf sugar ; two ounces of fresh butter ; peel and juice of one lemon ; five eggs. Pour over a pint of grated bread a piaC and a half of warm milk, stir it well toge- ther, and then add the remainder of the milk, the peel of a lemon grated, the pounded sug.ar, the butter, and the yolks of five or six eggs well beaten ; mix .all thoroughly together, pour it into a dish, and bake it c.arefully. Put the juice of the lemon into a basin, add three ounces of sifted sugar, beat it well, and stir it into the whites of the eggs whisked to a very stiff froth. Pul a layer of apricot ])reserve over the top of the pudding, pile the whisked whites of eggs over it, and place it in the oven to bake lightly.