66 Ox-check and Ox-Tongue. quarter of an inch thick each, flatten them and give them a round form. Melt some butter in a saut^-pan, lay the fillets in it, and season them with pepper and salt. Just before you send them to table, ]3ut the pan ovoi a good fire and dress them quickly. Turn them the moment you see a little gravy bubble up, on their surface. They are done when, on pressing them, you find they resist the fork. Place them in a small pile on a dish, or round a little heap of mashed potatoes. Pour a little gravy into the saute-pan to detach the glaze formed at the bottom of it, add a table- spoonful of Espagnole or any other sauce, reduce this gravy a little over the fire, and serve with a squeeze of lemon juice. Or instead of lemon juice, add to the sauce a few fried mushrooms. Or beat into the Espagnole sauce and gravy a piece of anchovy butter about the size of a walnut. Or the centre may be filled with tomato sauce. We must beg our lady readers who are obliged to keep house economically, not to be frightened at the idea of having fillets de bcEuf (which are seldom seen in middle- class houses), at their table. A little ordi- nary care, attention, and practice will enable a tolerable .cook to do them well, and they are especially nice dishes. Moreover, they give two fresh dishes from one joint. Use the under-cut of the sirloin, we will say, for example, on the Saturday for fillets de boeuf, and you have your sirloin still ready for the spit on Sunday. It is true that for them you must have a tolerably large joint, but in a large family a good-sized joint is economical, because it wastes less by drying up in cooking. For small families a small dish of fillets de boeuf may be made from a joint weighing ten pounds or even less. Ox-cheek Stewed. Time, seven hours altogether. 214. Plalf an ox-head ; a bunch of sweet herbs ; one head of eelery ; some pepper and salt; one small onion ; one glass of port wine ; four cloves ; three pints and a half of water. Well wash part of an ox-head, and let it soak in cold water for several hours ; then put it into a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs, a little pepper and salt, one small onion, a head of celery cut into slices, and four cloves ; pour in about three pints and a half of water—or rather more, and set it over a gentle fire to simmer slowly. When tender, take out the head, and cut the meat from it in rather small pieces ; strain the |;ravy and put about the third part of it into a stewpan with a glass of port wine, some forcemeat balls, and the pieces of head. Make all very hot and serve it up quickly. To Dress a Bullock’s Heart. Time, two hours. 215. One heart; veal stuffing ; half a pint of rich gravy. Soak a bullock’s heart for three hours in warm water; remove the lobes, and stuff the inside with veal forcemeat; sew it securely in ; fasten some white paper over the heart, and roast it for two hours before a strong fire, keeping it basted frequently. Just before serving, remove the paper, baste and froth it up, and serve with a rich gravy poured round it, and currant jelly sepa- rately. Ox-Tongue. Time, one hour to warm; two hours and a half, if large, to simmer. 216. Choose a plump tongue with a smooth skin, which denotes the youth of the animal. If it has been salted and dried, soak it before you boil dt for twenty hours in plenty of water. If it is a green one fresh from the pickle, soak it only three or four hours. Put it into cold water, let it gradually for one hour ; then let it slowly simmer for two hours and a half. Plunge it into cold water in order to remove the furred skin. Bend it into a nice shape with a strong fork ; then trim and glaze it if it is to be sert'ed as a cold tongue, and ornament the root with a frill of cut paper or vegetable flowers ; when hot garnish with aspic jelly. If it is to be served hot, as an enirie, it must be wrapped in a gjeased paper and warmed again in hot water, after removing the coating ; serve, when thus garnished, with macaroni or tomato sauce. Ox-Cheek Cheese—A homely American Keceipt. Time, four hours. 217. Half an ox-head ; one teaspoonful of fine salt; half a teaspoonful of pepper ; one tablespoonful of powdered thyme; enough water to cover the head. Split an ox-head in two, take out the eyes, crack the side bones, and lay it in water for one whole night. Then put it in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover it. Let it boil very gently, skimming it care- fully. Wdien the meat loosens from the bones take it from the water w'ith a skimmer, and put it into a bowl. Take out every particle of bone, chop the meat very fine, and season it with a teaspootiful of salt, and half a teaspoonful of pepper ; add a table- spoonful of powdered thyme. Tie it in a