Mutton Cutlets—Haricot of Mutton. V jp the yolk of an egg, dip a brush in it and pass it lightly over the cutlet, and then dip it in bread-crumbs. Melt two ounces of butter in an omelet-pan and put the cutlets in it ; set it over a gentle clear fire for five ;ninutes, turn them, do them for five minutes longer, lay them on a clean cloth, then put them in a dish in a circle, one lean- ing over the other, with some good tomato sauce in the centre. Mutton Cutlets. Time, to stew, seven minutes ; to broil, ten minutes. 245. One pound and a half of chops from the loin ; a sprig of thyme and parsley ; yolk of one or two eggs ; bread-crumbs ; salt and Cayenne pepper to taste ; two ounces of butter ; juice of a small lemon. Cut about a pound and a half of cutlets from a loin of mutton, take off about an inch from the top of each bone, and from the thickest end ; melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan, season the cutlets, put them in, and let them stew for a short time without allowing them to gain any colour. Mince a little thyme and parsley fine, and bind it with the yolk of one or two eggs. When the cutlets are nearly cold spread the minced herbs over them, and sprinkle each cutlet thickly with grated bread, and a very little Cayenne pepper. Put them carefully on a gridiron over a clear brisk fire, and broil them a fine brown. Serve them on a hot dish, and squeeze over them the juice of a small lemon. Mutton Cutlets a la Maintenon. Time, fifteen minutes. 246. Some cutlets from the neck or loin ; a bunch of thyme and pansley ; some bread- crumbs ; pepper and salt. Cut about a pound and a half of the neck or loin of mutton into delicate cutlets, and chop each bone short ; trim them neatly, and put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, and a little thyme and parsley chopped fine ; season with pepper and salt; /•y them lightly and then take them out to cool, after which take some fresh chopped parsley and some bread-crumbs ; spread them evenly over the cutlets with a knife, wrap them in buttered papers, and broil them over a clear fire. Serve them up in the papers with gravy in a tureen. These cutlets are said to have been invented by Madame de Maintenon in order to tempt the waning appetite of Louis XIV. The fat of the dressed meat is absorbed in the papillotes. They may also be served with- out ^avy. Mutton Chops Broiled. Time, ten minutes. 247. Cut some chops from the best end of the loin or neck, but the loin is preferable, trim them neatly, removing the skin and fat, leaving only enough of the latter to make them palatable ; let the fire be very clear before placing the chops on the gridiron, turn them frequently, taking care that the fork is not put into the lean part of the chops ; season them with pepper and salt. When just finished cooking, put a piece of fresh butter over each chop, and send them to table on a hot dish, or sen'e with any sauce you like over them ; but in that case the chops become an cnMc. Haricot of Mutton. Time, nearly one hour. 348. Two pounds of loin of mutton ; two onions ; half a pint of gravy ; one glass of port wine; two dessertspoonfuls of mushroom ketchup ; two turnips ; two carrots ; half a head of celery ; a large piece of butter ; a little flour ; pepper and salt. Divide the chops of a loin of mutton, and take off the superfluous fat, cut two onions into rings, and fry them with the meat a nice brown in a good sized piece of butter ; thicken a half pint of gravy with a little flour, and pour it over the chops. Set them at the side of the fire to stew slowly for three- quarters of an hour, or rather more. Par- boil two carrots, two turnips, and half a head of celery, cut the former into shapes and the celery into slices, and add them to tlie meat about twenty minutes before serving. Pour in a glass of port wine, two spoonfuls of ketchup, and, after boiling it once up, serve it hot. Irish Stew. Time, about two hours. 249. Two pounds and a half of chops; eight potatoes ; four small onions ; nearly a quart of water. Take about two pounds and a half of chops from a loin of mutton, place them in a stewpan with alternate layers of sliced potatoes and layers of chops, and four small onions, and pour in nearly a quart of cold water ; cover the stewpan closely, and let it stew gently until the potatoes are ready to mash, and the greater part of the gravy is absorbed ; then place it in a dish, apd senc it up very hot. Hashed Mutton. Time, one hour and twenty minutes. 250. Some cold mutton ; one pint and a half of water ; fourteen pepper corns ; font