3° The Breakfast Table. A Dish of Mackerel. Pike are served in many ways. Mackerel should always be sent to table head to tail. Divide the meat from the bone by cutting down the back lengthwise ; the upper part is the best. All small fish, such as pilchards, herrings, smelts, &c., are served whole. Whitings when fried have the tail curled as in the en- graving. They are sent whole. Fried Whiting. When baked, the back and belly should be slit up, and each slice gently drawn downwards ; by this means fewer bones will be given. Remember that constant practice is re- quired to make a good carver. With it and a little care and observation, it will become easy and even pleasant to you to carve ; and will greatly add to the comfort and nicety cA the home dinner-table. THE BREAKFAST-TABLE. A lady’s taste and nicety are very per- ceptible at the breakfast-table. She should never allow a soiled table-cloth to appear on It. The linen should be fresh and sno^vy white, the silver brightly cleaned, the tea, coffee, or cocoa nicely made, and, if pos- sible, fresh flowers and fruit should adorn the table. A nicely-laid, pretty, appetizing breakfast is a great promoter of good temper and harmony through the ensuing day. A soiled table-cloth, tough cold toast, weak tea, bitter coffee, &c., are enough to jierange both the temper and digestion of those who have to submit to such domestic Snflictions. Let our homes ever be bright, sunny, and charming ; and that such may be the case open the day with a cheery and well-arranged breakfast-table. At the head of the table place the break- fast cups and saucers, the tea cups at the left hand side, the coffee cups at the right hand side. The teapot and coffee-pot stand in front of the urn. The slop-basin and milk-jug should be placed on the left. The cream and hot milk to the right. Put hot plates by the broiled bacon, chops, cStc., and a smaller plate, knife, and fork to eacli person. Bread should be put on a wooden patter. Salt-cellars occupy the four corners. Hot rolls should bebrought in covered with a table-napkin. Dry toast should never stand longer than five minutes before serving. Buttered toast becomes soppy and greasy if too long kept before it is served. Large joints, as cold ham, cold beef, &c., should be put on the sideboard or a side table. And now to proceed to the especial pro- vince of our book—Lf., the proper prepa- ration of our breakfast food. We will begin with the tea and coffee. Tea contains in its leaves as soluble substances—caseine, an essential oil to which it owes its taste and odour ; a small amount of tannin ; more or less colouring matter according to the species of the plant, and a little gluten. Now to ex- tract the due proportions of these substances quite boiling water is needed, and the tea should not stand too long. Never boil the tea leaves ; the excessive heat would cause the essential oil, which is the flavouring matter, to fly off, and the boiling would e.x- tract too much of the tannin, which is dis- agreeable and astringent. Long standing also extracts too much of the tannin, and gives a dead, senna-like taste to the tea. To Roast Coffee. I. Have either a Patent Roaster, or the Irish mop roaster. To every three pounds of coffee you put in the roaster add a piece of good fresh butter, a little larger than a marble, and two teaspoonfuls of powdered sugar; then roast the berries. This little addition develops the aroma of the berry. Many people prefer having chicory added to their coffee—the proportion is .about a quarter of a pound of chicory to a pound of. coffee. Excellent Coffee for three Breakfast Cups. s. Four tablespoonfiils of ro.astcd coffee berries ; three teacupfuls of boiling water. Take four tablespoonfuls of roasted coffee berries and put them in the oven till well warmed through ; then ^ind them. Put the coffee in the pot, which should have a