Curries—Meat Pies and Puddings. 94 oven. Serve it witli boiled rice in a separate disli. This curry is very little, if at all known in England, and it is remarkably delicate and nice. Sansartees—Cape cf Good Hope, Time, ten minutes to boil. 396. The fillet end of a leg of mutton ; a little salt ; a very small bit of garlic; a spoonful of curry powder; juice of one lemon. Take the fillet end of a leg of mutton, cut it into small square pieces, lay them in an earthen pan, add salt to your taste, a small portion of garlic, and a spoonful of curry powder, squeeze a lemon over all, and let it stand (covered over) during the night. Put fat and lean pieces alternately on a skewer, then broil them directly and serve on rice, boiled as for curry. Lobster Curry. Time, half an hour. 397. One large lobster ; one large onion ; a piece of butter ; three dessertspoonfuls of curry paste ; juice of half a lemon ; a pint of broth, or more if required. Hoil a nice large lobster, or procure one ready boiled, break tlie slid), cut it down the back, pick out all the flesh, and cut it into small pieces. Cut a large onion into slices, and fry it brown ; then stir in the curry paste mi.xed smooth, pour in the broth, or stock, and boil it up until rather thick. Put in the pieces of lobster, stir all well together, cover it close, and stew it for rather more than half an hour if required, taking care that it is sufficiently moist ; adding a few spoonfuls,of broth if too dry. When ready to serve, add the juice of half a lemon, and serve it up hot with a dish of boiled rice. To Curry Eggs. Time, twenty minutes. 398. Ten eggs ; one onion ; two dessert- spoonfuls of curry powder ; a quarter of a pint of cream ; some arrowroot ; nearly a pint of medium stock or good broth. Fry one large onion or two,small ones a nice brown in butter, then add the curry powder and stock or good broth, and set it over the fire to stew slowly until the onions are tender. Thicken the cream with a little arrowroot, stir it in, and let all simmer for a few minutes. Then add ten or twelve hard-boiled eggs cut in halves. Make them hot without allowing them to boil, and arrange them on the flat ends on a hot dish with the sauce over them. MEAT PIES AND PUD- DINGS, VOLS-AU-VENT, &c We believe that it is utterly impossible to teach verbally how to make good paste or pie-crust; a lesson from a good cook would be worth whole volumes on this subject. Some general directions, however, may be given on this important art. First, the cook should have smooth cold hands—very clean —for making paste or crust. She should wash them well, and plunge them in cold water for a minute or two in hot weather, drying them well afterwards before beginning her paste. The pastiy .slab, if possible, should be made of marble ; if it is a wooden paste- board it should be kept scrupulously clean. The crust used for homely pies need not be as delicate as that used for company ; it may be made of clarified beef dripping or lard instead of butter. Be very careful about the proper heat of the oven for baking pies, as if it be too cold the paste will be heavy, and have a dull look ; if too hot, the crust will burn before the pie is done. Try if the oven is hot enough by holding your hand inside it for a few seconds; if you can do so without snatching it out again quickly, it is too cold ; it is best, however, to try it by baking a little piece of the crust in it first. Always make a small hole with a knife at the top of the pie to allow the gases gene- rated in it by the cooking to escape. This aperture is also useful for pouring gra\'y into the pie when it is done, if more is required. The hand of ,a pastrycook should be light, and the paste should not be worked more than is absolutely required for mixing it. We give first three plain receipts for pie crust, such as people of small means can use, and will find good, and also instruc- tions for clarifying dripping, so as to render it fit for making pie-crusts. To Clarify Beef Dripping. 399. Put the dripping into a basin, pour over it some boiling water, and stir it round with a silver spoon ; set it to cool, and then remove the dripping from the sediment, and put it into basins or j.irs for use in a cool place. Clarified dripping may be used for frying and basting eveiything except game or poultry, as well as for pies, &c. To Make a Short Crust with Dripping. 400. One pound of flour; three-quarters of a pound of clarified beef dripping; one