Wines and Syrnps. horsei-adisli. bay leaves, nutmeg, and salt, and pour it over the gherkins, cover them closely over and let them stand twenty-four hours, then put them in a stew- pan, and set them over the fire to simmer until they are green, taking care they do not boil, for that would spoil their colour ; then put them into jars or wide-mouthed bottles, and cover them over until they are cold. Tie the corks over with leather, and set them in a dry place. ^ 1 ) To Pickle Eed Cabbage. 705. To one quart of vinegar, one ounee of whole pepper. Remove the coarse leaves from some red cabbages, and wipe them very clean ; cut them in long thin slices or shreds, and put them on a large sieve, well covering them with salt, and let them drain all night; then put them into stone jars, and pour over them some boiling vinegar and whole peppers ; cover them over, and set them by for use. WINES AND SYEUPS. Very Superior Elder Wine. Time, thirty-five minutes to boil. 706. Five gallons of ripe elderberries ; ten gallons of water ; three pounds and a half of moist sugar to every gallon of water and juice ; whites of five or six eggs ; half a pound of ginger ; six lemons. Boil the five gallons of ripe elderberries in ten quarts of water for a quarter of an hour ; then strain them through a hair sieve, not pressing the berries. Measure the liquor into the boiler, and to every gallon add three pounds and a half of moist sugar with the peels of five or six lemons and the strained juice, and let it boil twenty minutes. When scalding hot, add the whites of five or six eggs well beaten, stirring the liquor well; fill the cask. When the whole is sufficiently cooled, put some yeast on the top of the cask, or a piece of toasted bread with yeast spread on it. When ready to be bunged up, hang half a pound of bruised ginger tied in a muslin bag in the middle of the cask. Let it remain for two months, and then it will be fit to bottle. Cowslip Wine. Time, half an hour to boil ; thirty-six hours to ferment ; to remain in the casks six weeks. 707. To every gallon of water allow three pounds of loaf sugar, the juice of one lemon, the peel of two, and one Seville orange, one gallon of cowslip flowers, or pips : to every five gallons of wine, a bottle of brandy, and a crust of toasted bread with three large spoonfuls of yeast. Put the peel of the lemons and the oranges, with the strained juice, into a large pan. Boil the sugar and the water together for half an hour, and pour it over the juice and peel. When lukewarm, add the cow- slip flowers, or pips picked from the stalks, and to every five gallons of wine put about three large spoonfuls of thick >cast spread on a crust of toasted bread. Let it ferment thirty-six hours ; then put all together into a cask with the brandy, let the cask be close stopped, and stand six weeks before you bottle it off for use. Mock Champagne. Time, to work, three weeks ; to stand, six months. 708. To every quart of grapes, one quart of water ; to every gallon of juice, allow three pounds of loaf sugar ; half an ounce of isinglass to every ten gallons of wine, and a quart of brandy to every five gallons. Pick the grapes when full grown and just beginniag to change colour, bruise them in a tub, pour in the water, and let them stand for three days, stirring once each day ; then press the fruit through a cloth, let the juice stand for three or four hours, pour it carefully from any sediment, and add to it the sugar. Barrel it, and put the bung slightly in ; at the end of three weeks, or when it has done working, put in the isinglass, previously dissolved in some of the liquor. Stir it for three days once a day, and at the last stir- ring add the brandy. In three or four days, bung it down close, and in six months it should be bottled, and the corks tied down, or wired. Ginger Beer. Time, one hour to boil. 709. Five pounds of loaf sugar ; three ounces of powdered ginger ; three gallons of water : five lemons ; a quarter of a tca- cupful of yeast; slice of toasted bread. Boil the sugar and ginger in three gal- lons of water for one hour. When it is cold, add the juice and peels of five lemons, and a quarter of a teacupful of yeast on a .slice of toasted bread, l.et it stand in a tub covered with a thick cloth for two or three days. Then strain it through a thick cloth, and bottle it. It will be rc.'idy to drink in four or five days after it is bottled. If it is wished In i)c very strong of ginger, 1 more may be added.