44 Soles and Eels. Filleted Soles. Time, ten minutes. 77. Two soles; one egg; and bread- vrumbs. Take two soles, divide them from the backbone, and remove the head, fins, and tail. Sprinkle the inside with salt, roll them up from the tail end upwards, and fasten then with very small skewers. If small or middling-sized soles, put half a fish in each roll. Dip them into the yolk of a well beaten egg, and then into bread-crumbs ; then into the egg a second time, and again sprinkle them with crumbs ; fry them in hot lard, or in clarified butter. Instead of rolling the fish they may be cut into pieces, and arranged in the form of a pyramid in the centre of a dish, and gar- nished with parsley and slices of lemon. Boiled Soles. Time, eight to ten minutes. 78. Two soles ; a large handful of salt in one gallon of water. Well wash and clean the soles, cut off the fins, and put them into a fish-kettle with salt and water. Let them boil slowly, and then simmer until done, which must be ac- cording to the weight of the fish, a large one requiring about ten minutes, a medium size eight. When done,, serve them on a napkin, with the white side uppermost. Garnish with slices of lemon and parsley. Anchovy or shrimp sauce are usually sent to table with boiled soles, but may be varied at pleasure. Fried Soles. Time, eight minutes. 79. Two soles ; one egg ; a few bread- crumbs. Remove the skin from the dark side of the soles, clean them, and wipe them dry, and dredge a little flour over them ; brush them over with the yolk of a well-beaten egg, dip them into bread-crumbs, and fry them of a light brown, in sufficient boiling fat for tliem to swim in. When done, lay them on a cloth to absorb the grease ; dish them on a napkin neatly folded, and garnish with fried parsley. Plain melted butter or shrimp sauce may be sent to table with them. Eels Spitchcocked. Time, half an hour, or till the skin turns up. 80. Two or three eels ; some chopped parsley ; pepper ; salt ; a little sage ; juice of half a lemon ; eggs, and bread-cnimbs ; a little mace ; and a little warmed butter. Skin two or three large cels, open them on the belly side, and dean them thoroughly; remove the backbone, and cut them into pieces three or four inches long; strew over them, on both sides, some chopped parsley, a very little sage, pepper, salt, a little mace pounded fine, a little warmed butter, and the juice of nearly half a lemon ; dip each piece carefully in egg and bread- crumbs ; fry them in a pan of boiling fat, and serve them on a hot dish, in a circular form, with piquante sauce (or any other you like) in the centre. Baked Eels. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 81. Four large eels ; some veal stock ; a bunch of savoury herbs ; a sprig of parsley ; two glasses of port wine ; juice of a small lemon ; salt and Cayenne ; one tea- spoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Skin, empty, and thoroughly wash the eels, cut off the heads, and divide them into rather short pieces, wipe them very dry, dip each piece into a seasoning of Cayenne, salt, minced parsley, and a little powdered savoury herbs ; put them into a deep dish, cover them with veal stock, put a thick paper or cover over the dish, and set it in the oven until the eels are tender. Skim off the fat, take the pieces of fish carefully out on a hot dish to keep warm, and stir into the gravy the wine, strained lemon juice, and sauce ; make it just boil up, and pour it over the fish. Garnish with sliced lemon. Boiled Eels. Time, half an hour. 82. Some small eels, and a little parsley and butter. The small eels are the best; do them in sufficient water to cover them, add a bunch of parsley; when tender, they are done. Serve them up in a shallow tureen, with parsley and butter sauce poured over them. Fried Eels. Time, eighteen or twenty minutes. 83. One large cel, or two small ones; one egg, and a few bread-crumbs. Pri'p.ire and wash the eels, wipe them thoroughly dry, and dredge over them a very little flour; if large, cut them into pieces of about four inches long, brush them over with egg, dip them into bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat. If small, they should be curled round and fried, being first dipped into egg and brcad-cnimbs. Serve them up garnished with fried parsley. Boiled Conger. Time, half an hour. 84. White conger eel; bread-crumbs;