37 Anc/iovy and Shrimp Toast. sherry; tliree teaspoonfuls of made mustard ; a piece of butter the size of a walnut ; a teaspoonful of flour ; one small onion ; a pinch of Cayenne. ParboH the ears. Make a forcemeat of an anchovy, sage, parsley, a quarter of a pound of finely chopped suet, bread-crumbs, pepper, and salt. Mi.x and bind it with the beaten yolks of two eggs. Raise the skin of the upper side of the ears, and stuff them with it. Fry the ears in fresh butter to a nice brown. Pour away the fat, and drain them. Make the following gravy ; add to half a pint of rich stock, or gravy, a glass of sherry, three tablespoon fuls of mademustard, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, rolled in flour, one small onion whole, and half a saltspoonful of white pepper. Put this gravy with the ears into a stewpan, and cover it closely ; stew it gently for half an hour, shaking it often. I'hen take out the onion, place the ears carefully in a dish, and pour the sauce over them. If you require more than two ears, the same quantity of sauce will do for four. Pigs’ Feet Soused. Time, one hour and a half. 36. Two feet; one teaspoonful of salt; three quarters of a pint of vinegar ; a quarter of a pint of the water in which they are boiled ; si.x pepper corns ; a little all- spice ; four cloves ; a little mace. Scald the feet and scrape them clean ; if the covering of the toes will not come off without, singe them in hot embers, until they are loose ; then take them off. Some persons put the feet in weak lime-water to whiten them. Having scraped them clean and white, wash them and put them into a pot of warm, but not boiling water, with a little salt. Let them boil gently till by turning a fork in the flesh it will e.asily break, and the bones are all loosened. Take off the scum as it rises. When they are done take them out of the water and lay them in vinegar enough to cover them, adding to it a quarter of a pint of the water in which they were boiled. Add whole y..epper and spice with cloves and mace. Put them in a jar and cover them closely. Soused feet may be eaten cold from the vinegar, split in two from top to toe ; or they may be split in two, dipped in flour, and fried in hot lard; or they may be broiled and buttered. But in the latter case they should be nicely browned. Anchovy Toast. 37. Six or eight anchovies ; one and a half ounce of butter slices of toast. Bone and skin six or seven anchovies. .\fter washing them very clean, pound them in a mortar with an ounce and a half ol butter, and then rub them through a sieve ; lake some thin slices of bread, and cut them out with a tin cutter, into squares or rounds; fry them brown in a little butter, and spread over them (when cold) the anchovy mixture. Wash some anchovies, cut them in four, and put a piece on the top of each slice of toast: serve on a napkin garnished with crisped parsley. Shrimp Toast. Time, half an hour. 38. One quart of shrimps ; three quarters of a pint of water ; one ounce and a half of butter ; ha'f a teaspoonful of flour ; a pinch of Cayenr e, more or less, according to taste ; a squeeze of lemon ; two eggs. Shell the shrimps, bruise their heads, and boil them in three quarters of a pint of ■ water for half an hour. Strain this liquor off from them through a fine sieve. Melt an ounce and a half of butter as directed before. Add to it, as soon as it begins to simmer, a little Cayenne to your taste. Shake the whole together till the colour of the butter and flour darkens, then pourintff it gradually and carefully the liquor in which the heads were stewed. Boil this sauce, and just as it reaches boil- ing point put in the shrimps, and let them get hot quite through. Have ready a toast cut from the bottom crust of a loaf more than an inch thick, a little hollowed out and fried in fresh butter. Make a liaison, or thickening, of the yolks of two eggs ; stir this in just as you are about to take up the shrimps, and spread the shrimps on the toast. Add a squeeze of lemon, if you like it, to the mixture. Another and simple way is to use nearly the same quantities thus :—omitting the water in which the heads are boiled. Two ounces of butter; a teaspoonful ol flour. Melt the butter, warm the shrimps in it, throw in a little Cayenne, and five drops of anchovy essence, and serve on the toast. Broiled Mushrooms. Time, eight minutes. 39. Sufficient flap mushrooms for a dish ; : pepper and salt ; a piece of butter. Wipe your mushrooms very clean with a piece of flannel, and salt; peel the tops, and cut the stalks partly off. Put them over a very clear fire, and broil them lightly on both sides. When done, arrange them on a dish ; dust a little pepper and salt over them, and put a pieeu of butter on each