Whiting—Mnllcis—Trout— Carp. 42 Fried Whiting. Time to fry, ten minutes. 6;:. Egg; bread-crumbs; and a little dour. Clean the whitings, take off the skin, turn them round, and fasten the tail into the mouth ; dry them in flour. Bmsh tliem over with an egg well beaten, roll them in bread ci umbs, and fry them in liot lard, and serve them on a napkin, garnished with fried parsley, and shrimp or anchovy sauce, separately. To Boil Whiting. Time, ten minutes for large fish. 63. Four or six whitings ; some anchovy SEiuce, or plain melted butter ; and three ounces of salt to each gallon of water. Tlioroughly cleanse the fish, and lay them in the fish-kettle, with sufficient water to cover them. Bring them slowly to a boil, and simmer for five or six minutes, or for a longer time should your fish be large. Dish them on a folded napkin, and garnish with bunches of double parsley. Serve with an- chovy sauce, or plain melted butter. Red Mullets in Papers. Time, twenty-five minutes. 64. Two mullets ; one ounce of butter ; one teaspoonful of Harvey's sauce ; one glass of wine ; four truffles ; six mush- rooms ; a little parsley ; a little shallot ; one teaspoonful of lemon juice ; a little flour ; three eggs ; one spoonful of cream ; a little nutmeg. Place the mullets in a sautd-pan with the butter, sauce, and wine. Balte them in the oven slowly for ten minutes. Take the fish out of the pan ; strain off their liquor ; add to it the truffles, mushrooms, oacslev. sJiallot, nutmeg, lemon juice, and flour ;' stir all together over the fire for six or eight minutes, then add a liaison pf three well beaten yolks of eggs and a spoonful of cream. 'lake two sheets of letter paper, oil them well, lay the mullets on them and spread an equal proportion of sauce over each. Then fold the papers over them and roll the edges together to fasten them. Broil the mullets over a slow fire, suffi- ciently to brown them on both sides, and warm them through, but be careful not to burn the paper. When done serve them on a napkin. To Dress Mullets. Time, twenty-five minutes. 65. Three red mullets ; four spoonfuls 01 anchovy sauce: a bttle pepper and salt; one tablespoonful of chopped shallot; one of chopped parsley ; one spoonful of chopped mushrooms ; four tablespoonfuls of claret; a piece of glaze the size of a walnut. Take three red mullets, place them in a tin in the oven with four spoonfuls of an- chovy sauce, a little pepper and salt. Put into a deep saul^-pan a tablespoon- ful of chopped shallot, the same of parsley, the same of chopped mushrooms, four table- spoonfuls of claret, a piece of glaze the size of a walnut. Stew them well together. J When the fish is baked, pour this sauce over ] them. I Red Mullet Baked. i Time, twenty-five minutes. < 66. Two mullets ; some essence of an- cho^’ies ; a piece of butter ; a little flour; and the juice of half a lemon. Fold each mullet in oiled or well buttered paper, tie the ends, pass the string over them, and bake in a small dishin a moderate oven. Make a sauce of the hquor that comes from the fish, with a piece of butter, j a little flour, a teaspoonful of essence of <( anchovies, and the juice of half a lemon. Boil it and serve it in a sauceboat, and the fish in their paper cases. I Trout Boiled. Time, twenty to thirty minutes. 67. The fish; one winegl.assful of vinegar; water, salt, and a piece of horseradish Rub and wipe the fish very dry them, put 1 into a fish-kettle of boiling water with a ; wineglassful of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls 1 of salt, and a piece of horseradish. Boil I them slowly for twenty minutes or half an hour, taking care that the skin is not broken, and serve them on a napkin with anchovy (, sauce, or plain melted butter. j| Baked Carp. ^ Time, one hour and a quarter. In season from March to October. j 68. One large carp ; forcemeat; egg j bread-crumbs ; a little butter ; one pint o\ i stock : half a pint of port wine ; two onions j two bay-leaves ; a bunch of herbs ; six an- | diovies ; one teaspoonful of mustard ; one of soy ; a little salt ; Cayenne ; and apiece of butter. Clean and scale a large carp ; put a stuffing as for soles dressed in the Portu- guese way, and sew it up ; brush it over witli tlie yolk of an egg, and cover it with bread- crumbs, then drop some oiled butter ever it. I’lace the carp in a deep earthen dish, witit a pint of stock, two onions sliced, twD bay-leaves, a bunch of hcibs, half i. pint of port wine, and si.x anchovies;