83 Roast Duck and Poivl, fill it with sage and onion stuffing, and fasten it in securely at both ends by passing the rump througli a slit made in the shin, and tying the skin of the neck into the back of the bird. Roast it before a nice brisk fire for an hour and a half if small; one hour and three-quarters or two hours if large. Keep it frequently b.isted, and when done remove the skewers, place it on a hot dish, and pour a little good gravy round it. Send up some in a tureen. Serve with apple sauce To Stew Giblets. Time, one hour and a half. 320. One set of giblets ; a buneh of par- sley and thyme ; a few sage leaves ; pepper and salt; one onion ; a quart of gravy; a wineglass of wliite wine. Thoroughly clean and wash the giblets, cut them into pieces, and stew them for an hour and a half in a quart of gravy, adding a bunch of thyme and parsley, an onion, a few sage leaves, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. When done, put them into water, and trim tliem ready for sen'ing. Strain tlie gravy through a fine hair sieve, add a glass of white wine, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut rolled in flour. Boil the giblets up in the gravy, and serve thetn quickly. To Truss andEoast a Duck. 321. Ducks are trussed in the same manner as geese, except that the feet must be left on and turned close to the legs. To Eoast a Duck. Time, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. 322. A couple of ducks ; sage and onion stufsng. Ducks should always hang for one day, and even longer if the weather be sufficiently cold to allow it. Stuff one with sage and onion stuffing, season the inside of the other with pepper and salt. Put them to roast at a clear bright fire, and keep them con- stantly basted until done. A short time before serving, dredge over them a little flour, and baste them with butter to make them froth and brown. Serve them very hot, and pour round (not over them) a little good brown gravy. Serve a little of the same separately in a tureen. Green peas should always be sent up with roast ducks, if in season. Stewed Duck. Time, two hours and a half. 323. A couple of ducks or one duck ; forcemeat ; three sage leaves ; two onions ; one lemon ; a glass of port wine. Take a duck, pick, draw, and stuff it with forcemeat, adding three sage leaves chopped fine. Clean and wash the giblets, and put them into sufficient water to cover them. Make from them a gravy for the duck, add two onions chopped very fine, and a season- ing of pepper and salt. Let the grav^ simmer until it is strong enough, then put the duck into a stewpan, pour the gravy and onions over it, and stew it slowly for about two hours, adding a glass of Dort wine just before it is done. Dish it up and squeeze the juice of a lemon over it; pour the gravy round, and serve it with 5'ried bread. To Truss a Eoast Fowl. 324. The fowl must be picked and singed ; the neek cut off close to the back. Take out the crop, and with the middle finger loosen the liver and other parts at the breast end ; cut off the vent; draw the fowl clean ; wash out and wipe the inside quite dry; beat the breastbone flat with a rolling-pin. Put a skewer in the first joint of the pinion and bring the middle of the leg close to it. Put the skewer through the middle of the leg and through the body, and do the same on the otlier side. Put another skewer in the small of the leg, and through the sidesman. Do the same on the other side, and then put another through the skin of the feet, which should have the nails cut off. Clean out and wash the gizzard, remove the gall bag from the liver, and put both liver and gizzard in the pinions. To Eoast a Fowl or Chicken. Time, one hour for a largo one ; three- quarters of an hour for a small one ; twenty-five minutes for a chicken. 325. One large fowl or two small ones; some brown gravy ; butter, and flour. When the fowls ai'e trussed for roasting, singe them carefully, and wipe them clean ; put a piece of buttered paper over the breasts, and roast them at a clear fire, keeping them frequently basted. Just before they are done remove the paper, dredge them with flour, and baste them with butter warmed in the basting-ladle until they arc nicely browned and have a frothy appearance. Then place them on a hot dish, pour a little brown gravy ovet them, and serve the remainder in a tureer, with another of bread sauce. To Eoast a Fowl—Family Eeoeipt. Time, one hour. 326. A large fowl ; two or three table- spoonfuls of bread-crumbs ; half a pound of butter ; pepper and salt. -- G2