To Stctv Vegetables—Salads. 105 and of a round form, on a little stalk. They grow very fast, and the upper part and stalk are white. As the size increrises, the under part gradually opens, and shows a fringy fur of a very fine salmon-colour, which continues more or less till the mush- room has gained some size, and then turns to a dark brown. These marks should be attended to, and likewise whether the skin can be easily parted from the edges and middle. Those that have luhite or yellow fur should be carefully avoided, though many of them have the same smell (but not so strong) as the right sort. Stewed Mushrooms. Time, twenty-one minutes. 464. Button mushrooms ; salt to taste ; a little butter rolled in flour; two table- spoonfuls of cream, or the yolk of one egg. Choose buttons of uniform size. Wipe them clean and white with a wet flannel, put them in a stewpan with a little water, and let them stew very gently for a quarter of an hour. Add salt to taste, work in a little flour and butter, to make the liquor about as thick as- cream, and let it boil for five minutes. When you are ready to dish it up, stir in two tablespoonfuls of cream, or the yolk of an egg, stir it over the fire for a minute, but do not let it boil, and serve. Stewed button mushrooms are very nice, either in fish stews or ragouts, or served apart to eat wth fish. Another way of doing them is to stew them in milk and water (after they are rubbed white), add to them a little veal gravy, mace, and salt, and thicken the gravy with cream or the yolks of eggs. Mushrooms with Artic^ okes. Time, about twenty minutes. 465. Six large mushrooms ; six button mushrooms ; six artichoke bottoms ; salt, butter, and flour. Clean and peel the mushrooms and cut the stalks off. Put one on each artichoke- bottom, and a button mushroom on it. Set them in a stewpan with a little water, and let them stew gently. Add salt to taste. Thicken the liquor with butter rolled in flour, and let it just boil for two or three minutes. A couple of lablespoonfuls of cream improves the liquor. Seakale. 'J'ime, twenty minutes. 466. Some toasted bread ; and melted butter. Tie the seakale up in bundles, and put it into a stewpan of boiling water with a tea- tpoonful of salt; let it boil for about twenty minutes, or until tender. Drain and serve it up on a slice of toast, with a tureen of melted butter. Salsify, or Vegetable Oyster. Time, to boil, thirty to forty minutes. 467. Six ounces of butter ; two dessert- spoonfuls of white sauce ; a little pepper and salt ; some vinegar or lemon juice. After you have washed and scraped the salsify very white, throw it into very weak vinegar and water, or lemon juice and water, for a few minutes ; then put it into a pan of boiling water with two ounces of butter, a little salt, and a tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon. When it is quite tender, put it to drain on a sieve ; then cut it into short pieces, and again put it into a stewpan with the white sauce, the remainder of the butter, and a little lemon juice. Sh.ake it over the fire for a few minutes until it is well mixed and very hot, and serve it piled high in the centre of a dish, garnished with crofltons arranged round it. Horseradish. 468. Wash the horseradish very clean, and lay it in cold water for nearly an hour ; then scrape it into very fine shreds with a sharp knife. Place some of it in a glass dish, and arrange the remainder as a gar- nish for roast beef, or many kinds of boiled fish. Salad. 469. Yolk of one or two raw eggs ; one or two young onions, or leeks ; three table- spoonfuls of salad oil; one of vinegar; some lettuce ; and slices of beetroot ; salt, and mustard. Take the yolk of one or two raw eggs, according to the size of the salad you require, beat them up well, add a little salt and mustard, and chop up one or two young onions, or leeks, about the size of grass, then add the salad oil and the vinegar, and beat the whole up into a thick sauce. Cut in the salad, and put thin slices of beetroot at the top. Sprinkle a little salt over it, and do not stir it up till the moment you use it. For a small salad three dessert- spoonfuls of oil, and one of vinegar, will do. Summer Salad. 470. Three lettuces ; a good quantity of mustard and cress ; some young radishes ; boiled beetroot; hard-boiled eggs. Wash and carefully remove the decayed leaves from the lettuces and mustard and cress, drain them well from the water, and cut tliem and the radishes into small pieces ; arrange them on a dish lightly with the mustard and cress mixed with them, and