To McH Lard—To PicJdc Pork. for a week in pickle, turning and nibbing the pickle into it once each day. Let it lie for half an hour in cold water before it is dressed to improve tlie colour ; then put it into a large pot, or stewpan, and well cover it with water. Let it boil gradually, and skim frequently as the scum rises. Cn no account let it boil fast, or the meat wdl be hardened, and the knuckle end will be done before the thick part. When done, serve it on a hot dish with a garnish of turnips, or p.arsnips. A peas-pudding must be served with boiled leg of pork, and greens as vege- tables. It may be boiled in a cloth dredged over with flour, which gives it a very deli- tate appearance, but in that case the water in which it was boiled cannot be used as a stock for pea-soup, and is thus wasted. To Boil Bacon. Time, one hour and a half for two or three pounds. 295. If very salt, soak it in soft water two hours before cooking. Put it into a saucepan with plenty of water and let it boil gently. If a fine piece of the gammon of bacon, it may, when done, have the skin, as in hams, stripped off, and have finely-pow- dered bread-raspings strewed over it. To Steam Bacon, Time, twenty minutes to the pound. 296. It is a mistake to boil bacon. It should be steamed. No waste then takes place as to quantity, and the flavour is quite preserved, while the bacon is much more tender, as it cannot well be spoiled by too quick boiling. Scrape the outer rind or skin well, wash the bacon, put it in a steamer over a pot of boiling water, and steam it for as long as required by the weight. Serve it with veal ■ or fowls, or (in the kitchen) by itself with ; greens. To Melt Lard. 297. Strip off all the skin from the inner part of a pig, put it into a jar, and place it in a large saucepan of boiling water. Let It simmer gently over a bright fire, and as it melts, take it gently from the sediment. Put it into nicely cleaned bladders for use ■ • ^ place. Thesmaller the bladders are. the better the lard keeps. If the air reaches it, it becomes rank. This is ■ most useful for frying fish (it is used instead of oil). Mixed with butter it makes fine ; pie crust. Pickled Pork. lime, three-quarters of an hour to four pounds. 2?^ The belly part is considered delicate. 79 It should be nicely streaked. Boil it gently. Serve it with greens as a garnish round it. A Hand of Pork. Time, one hour. 299. If the pork should be very salt, it will require to be soaked for nearly two hours before boiling. Boil it and serve with greens and peas-pudding in a separate dish. Bladebone of Pork. Time, ten minutes. 300. One teaspoonful of pepper and a little salt; a piece of butter the size of a walnut ; one teaspoonful of mustard. A bladebone of pork is taken from the bacon hog. The less meat left on it in moderation the better. It must be boiled, and when just done, season it with pepper and salt. Lay a piece of butter on it and a teaspoonful of made mustard. Serve it quickly as hot as possible. The fore-quarter of a young pig of four or five months old, cut for roasting as you do lamb with the shank trussed close, should be roasted as lamb, and will eat something like it. Pigs’ Tongues. 301. Partially boil the tongue in order to remove the skin. Pickle them as you would pickle a ham ; lay them one on the top of each other under a heavy weight. Cover the pan in which you place them, and let them remain for a week, then dry them, and put them into sausage skins. Fasten them up at the ends, and smoke them. Pigs’ Pettitoes. Time, forty minutes. 302. Feet, heart, and hver of a pig; a small piece of butter (size of a walnut); half a teaspoonful of pepper ; a little salt: one round of toasted bread. Put them in just sufficient water to cover them, add the heart and liver, boil them ten minutes, then take out the liver and heart, and mince them small, return them to the feet, and stew until quite tender ; thicken with flour and butter, season with pepper and salt, and serve up with sippets of plain or toasted bread ; make a pyramid of the minced heart and liver, and lay the feet round them. When pettitoes are fried they shouU be first boiled, then dipped in butter, and fried a light brown. To Boast a Pig’s Head. Time, to roast, half an hour. 303. Half an ounce of sage ; one table- pepper^ ^dessertspoonful of