Stocks for Soups. 51 When cold, all the fat must be taken off, and it must be poured clear from the sedi- ment. When the soup is required to be very rich, the jelly from a cow-heel, or a lump of butter rolled in flour, must be added to the stock. The stock-pot should never be suffered to be empty, as almost any meats, (save salt meats) or fowls make stock ; the remnants should never be thrown anywhere but into the stock-pot, and should too much stock be already in your possession, boil it down to a glaze ; waste is thus avoided. Medium Stock. Time, five hours and a half. 120. Four pounds of shin or gravy beef ; two pounds of bones ; five ounces of lean bacon or ham bone ; two ounces of butter ; one large onion ; five cloves | one turnip ; two carrots ; a bunch of savoury herbs ; one head of celery ; pepper and salt; five pints of water. Put about two ounces of butter into a stewpan, then add the beef and bacon cut into very small pieces, the bones, and any trimmings of meat, &:c., that you may have ; one onion stuck with fine cloves, a turnip, carrots, herbs, seasoning of pepper and salt, and a head of celery cut into pieces about three inches long; pour in about three- quarters of a pint of water ; cover the pan, and place it over a quick fire until the bottom of it is covered with a glaze ; taking care to stir it frequently. Then pour in the re- mainder of the water, and let it simmer slowly for about five hours ; skim it very clean whilst boiling, and when done, strain’ it through a very fine sieve, and it will be fit for use. Cheap Stock. Time, six hours. 121. Three or four quarts of the liquor in which mutton or beef has been boiled ; any bones of dressed meat; trimmings of poul- try, meat, &c. ; two large onions ; five cloves ; pepper and salt to taste ; one tur- nip ; two carrots ; a head of celery; a bunch of savoury herbs ; a sprig of parsley; two blades of mace. Put any bones of roast beef, trimmings of meat, and poultry into a stewpan ; add a head of celery cut into pieces, two onions stuck with cloves, a turnip, carrot, savoury herbs, with a sprig of parsley, two blades of mace, a few pepper corns, and a little pepper and salt ; pour in four quarts of the liquor m which any meat has been boiled ; set it over a slow fire, and let it simmer gently for quite six hours. Remove all the scum the moment it rises, and continue to do so until the stock is clear; then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and it will be fit for use. Bone Stock for Soup. Time, two to three hours. 122. Bones of any meat which has been dressed, as sirloin bone, leg of mutton bone, &c. &e. ; two scraped carrots ; one stick of celery; enough cold water to cover the bones, or enough of the liquor left from braising meat to cover them ; one spoonful of salt. Break the bones into very small pieces, put them into a stewpan with the carrots and celery ; cover them with cold water, or cold braise liquor ; and let it boil quickly till the scum rises ; skim it off and throw in some cold water, when the scum will rise again. This must be done two or tliree times, till the stock is quite clear ; then draw the pan from the fire and let it stew for two hours, till all the goodness is extracted from the bones. Strain it off and let it stand alt night. The next day take off the grease very carefully, not leaving the least atom on it, and lift it from the sediment at the bottom of the pan. It will then be fit for use. To Clarify Stock or Soups. 123. The whites of two eggs to about four quarts of stock or soup ; two pints and a half of cold water. Whisk the whites of two very fresh eggs with half a pint of water for ten minutes ; then pour in very gently the four quarts of boiling stock or soup ; whisking it all the time. Place the stewpan over the fire; skim it clear ; and when on the point of boiling whisk it all well together ; then draw it to the side, and let it settle till the whites of the eggs become separated. Strain it through a fine cloth placed over a sieve, and it will be clear and good. Plain Beef Soup. Time, four hours and a half. 134. Five pounds of the leg or shin of beef ; one gallon of water ; a teaspoonful of salt ; two heads of celery; five carrots; three onions ; four turnips ; two tomatoes, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Cut about five pounds of a leg or shin of beef into two or three pieces, and put them into a stewpan with a gallon of water and a tcaspoonful of salt. Let them boil slowly, and when the scum has risen, skim it well ; place it at the corner of the stove, and let it simmer steadily, so as to continue a regular heat for about four hours, then add tw^ heads of celery, and five carrots cut small, two tomatoes, three onions sliced and fried, E a