Venison Pasty—Lark^ Sparroiv^ Pigeon, and Rook Pic. 97 or stock if you have it ; put a paste border round the edges of the dish, and cover it with puff paste about half an inch thick. Omament and glaze the top, make a hole in the centre, and bake it. Venison Pasty. Time, to stew, three hours and a half ; three hours to bake. 412. A neck, or shoulder of venison ; a quarter of a pint of port wine ; three shal- lots ; three blades of mace ; pepper and salt ; nine allspice ; a little veal stoclc or broth : raised pie crust. For the gravy.—A glass of port wine ; juice of a small lemon ; a piece of butter, and flour; some stock from the stewed venison. Take either of the above parts of venison, remove the bones and skin, and cut it into small square pieces. Put them into a stew- pan with three shallots, pepper, salt, mace, and allspice. Add a quarter of a pint of port wine, and sufficient veal broth, or stock to cover it; put it on a gentle fire, and let it stew until three-parts done. Then take out the neatest pieces of venison for the pasty, and put them into a deep dish, in a ' cold place, with a little of the gravy poured ' over them. Pour the remainder of the ; gp"avy over the bones, &c., and boil it for a ■ quarter of an hour. Cover the pasty with : some raised pie crust, ornament the top i in any way you please, and bake it in a : slow oven. Wlien done, have ready the 1 gravy left from the bones, strain and skim it I clean, add a glass of port wine, the juice of . a small lemon, and a piece of butter rolled i in flour. Pour it into the pasty, and serve. Pie of Larks or Sparrows. Time, to bake, one hour and a half. 413. A dozen small birds ; a mmpsteak ; a small bunch of savoury herbs ; the peel of : half a lemon ; a slice of stale bread ; half . a cupful of milk ; six eggs ; pepper and • salt; two ounces of butter ; puff paste. Make a forcemeat with the slice of bread = soaked in milk, and beaten up, a small bunch of savoury herbs chopped fine, and • the peel of half a lemon minced, a season- ing of pepper and salt, a piece of butter, and the yolks of six eggs ; mix all together, : put it into a stewpan and stir it over the fire ■ for a few minutes until it becomes very stiff, ■ then fill the inside of each bird. Line a : pie-dish with the mmpsteak, seasoned with •piepper and salt and fried lightly ; place the thirds on it, cover them with the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs cut into slices, and pour in a sufficient quantity of gr.avy. Put a ; paste round the edge of the dish and cover it over with the same, glaze it with the yolk of an egg brushed over it, make a hole in the top, and bake it. A Plain Pigeon Pie. Time, to bake, one hour and a quarter. 414. Two or three pigeons ; a rumpsteak ; pepper and salt; a little gravy ; two ounces of butter ; puff paste. Lay a rim of paste round the sides and edge of a pie-dish, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over the bottom, and put in a thin beefsteak ; pick and draw the pigeons, wasb them clean, cut off the feet, and press the legs into the sides ; put a bit of butter, and a seasoning of pepper and salt in the inside of each, and lay them in the dish with their breasts upwards, and the necks and gizzards between them ; sprinkle some pepper and salt over them, and put in a wineglass of water; lay a thin sheet of paste over the top, and with a brush wet it all over ; then put a puff paste half an inch thick over that, cut it close to the dish, brush it over with egg, ornament the top, and stick four of the feet out of it, and bake it. When done, pour in a little good gravy. You may put in the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs, or leave out the beefsteak, if you think proper. Book Pie. Rooks must be skinned and stewed in milk and water before being put into the pie-dish; they may then be treated as pigeons. Epicures assert that only the breast must be used, but if when the rook is drawii and skinned it is laid on its breast and an incision made on each side of the spine of about a finger width, and that piece removed, the whole of the bird is wholesome food, that being the really bitter part. 415. Four rooks ; half a pound of puff paste; pepper ; salt ; three hard-boiled eggs : about two ounces of butter ; a sma)' piece of mmpsteak. Lay the mmpsteak in the pie-dish, cut the rooks as directed, and lay them in the dish well seasoned, add the butter in knobs and some hard-boiled eggs. Bake as you would a pigeon pie. Oyster Patties. Time, twenty minutes in all. 416. Light puff paste ; two dozen large oysters ; one ounce of butter rolled in flour; half a gill of good cream ; a little grated lemon peel; a little Cayenne pepper ; salt; one teaspoonful of lemon juice. Roll out puff paste less than a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into squares with a knife, n