9^ Lobster Patties—Beefsteak Pudding. cover wiili it eight or ten patty-pans, and put upon each a bit of bread the size of a walnut; roll out another layer of paste of the same thickness, cut it as above, wet the edge of the bottom paste and put on the top, pare them round and notch them about a dozen times with the back of the knife, mb them lightly with yolk of egg, and bake them in a hot oven about a quarter of an hour. When done, take a thin slice off the top, and with a small knife or spoon t;;kc out the bread and the inside paste, leaving the outside quite entire. Parboil two dozen large oysters, strain them from their liquor, wash, beard, and cut them into four, put them into a stewpan with an ounce of butter rolled in flour, half a gill of good cream, a little grated lemon peel, the oyster liquor strained and reduced by boil- ing to one half, a little Cayenne pepper and salt, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice ; stir it over the fire five minutes, fill the patties, put the cover on the top, and serve. lobster Patties. Time, twenty minutes. 417. Some puff paste ; a hen lobster; one ounce of butter ; half a tablespoonful of cream ; half a tablespoonful of veal gravy ; one teaspoonful of essence of an- chovy ; the same of lemon juice ; one table- spoonful of flour and water ; a little Cay- enne pepper and salt. Roll out the puff paste about a quarter of an inch thick, and prepare the patty-pans as for oyster patties ; take a hen lobster already boiled, pick the meat from the tail and claws, and chop it fine, put it into a stew- pan with a little of the inside spawn pounded in a mortar until quite smooth, with an ounce of butter, the halfspoonful of cream, the same of veal gravy, essence of anchovy, lemon juice, Cayenne pepper, and salt, and a tablespoonful of flour and water. Let it stew five minutes, fill the patties, and serve. Veal and Ham Patties. Time, a quarter of an hour. 418. Six ounces of ready dressed lean veal ; three ounces of ham ; one ounce of butter rolled in flour ; one tablespoanful of cream ; one of veal stock ; a little grated nutmeg and lemon peel ; some Cayenne pepper and salt; a spoonful of essence of ham : one of lemon juice ; puff paste. Chop about six ounces of ready dressed lean veal, and three ounces of ham, very small, put it into a stewpan with an ounce of butter rolled in flour, a tablespoonful of cream, the same of veal stock, a little grated nutmeg and lemon peel, some Cayenne pepper and salt, a spoonful of essence of ham and lemon juice. Mix all well together and stir it over the fire until quite hot, taking care it does not burn. Prepare the patty-pans as for oyster patties, and bake theiq in a hot oven for a quarter of an hour; fill with the mixture and serve. Moulded Veal, or Veal Cake. Time, half an hour to bake. 419. Slices of cold roast veal; slices of ham ; three eggs ; some gravy ; two sprigs of parsley ; pepper and salt. Cut a few slices of ham and veal very thin, taking off the skin from the veal, chop two sprigs of parsley fine, and cut the eggs hard-boiled into slices. Take any nice shaped mould, butter it, and put the veal, ham, eggs, and parsley in layers until the mould is full, seasoning each layer with a little pepper and salt, placing a few slices of egg at the bottom of the mould at equal distances, fill up with good stock and bake it. When cold turn it out, and serve on a folded napkin, garnished with flowers cut out of carrots, turnips, and a little parsley Beefsteak Pudding. Time, to boil, two hours, or a little longer. 420. One pound and a quarter of flour ; half a pound of chopped suet; one tea- spoonful of salt; two pounds of steak ; salt and black pepper to taste ; one gill of water. Put a pound, or a little more, of flour in a basin, and mix it thoroughly with some very finely-chopped suet ; put in a good heaped saltspoonful of salt. Mix it to a paste with water ; flour the pasteboard, the roller, and your hands. Take out the lump of paste, and roll it out about half an inch thick. Butter a round-bottomed pudding-basii), line it with paste, turning a little over the edge. Cut up the steak into small pieces, with a little fat, flour them slightly, season highly with pepper and salt, then lay them in the basin, pour over them a gill of water. Roll out the rest of the paste, cover it over the top of the basin, pressing it down with the thumb. Tie the basin in a floured pudding-cloth, and put it into a saucepan in a gallon of boiling water, keep it continually boiling for nearly tw'o liours, occasionally adding a little more water. Take it up, untie the cloth, turn the pudding over on the dish, and take the basin carefully from it. Ser\'e- Some persons, of delicate digestion, like this pudding boiled without a basin, on account of the superior lightness the crust