io6 Curing Bacon, Hams, &c. any of the salad mixtures you prefer poured j under, not over them. Garnish with boiled beetroot, cucumbers, and hard-boiled eggs cut into slices, and some vegetable flowers. .Slices of cold poultry, or fl.akcd fish, may be added to a summer salad, and are ex- tremely good. Lobster Salad, One hen lobster; lettuces ; endive ; mustard and cress ; radishes | beetroot; cucumber ; some hard-boiled eggs. Pour the salad mixture into the bowl,, w'ash and dry the lettuces and endive, and cut them fine ; add them to the dressing with the pickings from the body of tic lobster, and part of the meat from the shell cut into small pieces. Rub the yolks of two or three hard-boiled eggs through a sieve, and afterwards the coral of the lobster, then place the salad very lightly in the bowl, and garnish it with the coral, yolks of the hard-boiled eggs, sliced beet- root, cucumber, radishes, and the pieces of lobster. Place as a border hard-boiled eggs cut across, with the delicate leaves of the celery and endive between them. CURING BACON, HAMS, &C.-POTTING, COLLARING, &c. The important art of pickling or salting meat calls for the housekeeper’s best atten- tion. There are many modes of doing it, both in England and America. In England, North and South make bacon in a different manner. In Hampshire, Wiltshire, and Berk- shire, they singe the hog. In Yorkshire, Lin- colnshire, &'c., they scald the hog. Great care must be taken in preparing the meat for salt- ing. It must be carefully examined to see that it is fresh and good, then wiped, sprinkled with salt, and afterwards left to drain a few hours before it is rubbed with the salt. The meat will thus be thoroughly cleansed from the blood ; which wilt prevent it from turn- ing and tasting strong. It should then be placed in the pickling pan and turned every morning, r.lso it should be rubbed with the pickle. The cover of the pickling-pan should fit very closely and have a weight on it to keep it down. If a large quantity of salt meat is frequently required, the pickle may be boiled up, skimmed well, and when cold poured over any meat that has been sprinkled and well drained as above directed. To Cure Bacon. Time, three weeks. 472. One pound of saltpetre ; one pound of bay salt; one gallon of coarse salt; one pound of salprunella ; one pound of moist sugar. Pound the salprunella and bay salt very fine, mix the coarse salt and the sugar w'cll together, and rub it into your bacon, hams, and cheeks, putting all in the same brine. Turn and rub the bacon for a week every day : afterwards every other day. Let it temain in the brine three weeks, and then Send it to be smoked or dried. Large sides V)f bacon take a month to dry, small ones llirec wecKs. To Cure Hams. 473. For two large hams one pound ol common salt; three ounces of bay salt; tw'o ounces of saltpetre; one pound of coarse brown sugar; one quart of stale strong beer or ale. Boil all the above ingredients in the quart of beer or ale, and when cold pour it on the hams and turn them every d.ay for a fortnight ; then smoke them well. To Pot Beef. Time, three hours and a half. 474. Two pounds and a half of lean beef ; five ounces of butter ; pepper ; salt ; mace. Take a piece of lean beef and free it from the skin and gristle, put it intoacoveied stone jar with three dessertspoonfuls*of hot water, and stand it in a deep stewpan of boiling water to boil slowly for nearly four hours, taking care that the water does not reach to the top of the jar. When done, take it out, mince it fine, and pound it in a mortar with a seasoning of pepper, salt, and pounded mace. When smooth and like a thick paste, mix in some clarified butter and a very little of the gravy from the jar, press it into pots, pour butter over the tops, and tie down for use. To Pickle Pork. 475. One-third of saltiJctre ; two-thirds of white salt. Some people prefer pork pickled with salt alone (legs especially), others in the following manner:—Put a layer of salt at the bottom of a tub ; then mix the salt and saltpetre beaten ; cut the pork in pieces, rub it well with the salt, and lay it close in the tub, with a layer of salt between everj layer of pork till the tub is full. Have a cover, just large enough to fit the inside of I the tub, put it on, and lay a great weight