To Boil Vegetables. 102 water, with the above proportion of salt; and when it boils, lay in the asparagus, and boil it quickly for fifteen minutes, or until it is tender. Have a thin slice from a loaf nicely toasted, cut it in square pieces, dip Miem in the asparagus water, and put them in the dish. Take up the asparagus, lay it on the toast with the white ends outwards, and the points meeting in the centre. Serve f'ith melted butter in a tureen. To Boil Cauliflowers. Time, twelve to fifteen minutes, longer if very large. 442. A tablespoonful of salt to each gal- lon of water. Make choice of some cauliflowers that are close and white, pick off all the decayed leaves, and cut the stalk off flat at the bot- tom ; then put them with the heads down- wards in strong salt and water for an hour, to draw out all the insects. Drain them in a colander, and put them into a saucepan with plenty of fast boiling water, keep the pan uncovered, and boil them quickly until tender, which will be from twelve to fifteen minutes, or longer if they are very large. Skim the water clean, and when done, take them up with a slice, and serve, with sauce in a separate tureen. To Boil Brocoli. Time, ten to fifteen minutes if small; twenty to twenty-five minutes if large. 443. Two or three heads of brocoli; two quarts of water ; and a little salt. Strip off all the dead outside leaves, and cut the inside ones even with the flower; cut off the stalk close, and put them into cold salt and water for an hour before they are dressed to cleanse them from all insects ; put them into a large saucepan of boiling salt and water, and boil them quickly for about twelve or fifteen minutes with the pan uncovered. When tender, take them care- fully out, drain them dry, and serve them with a little melted butter poured over them, and some in a separate tureen. To Boil large Cabbages. Time, half an hour to three-quarters. 444. A tablespoonful of salt to half a gallon of watcT. Pick off all the dead leaves, and cut the stalk as close as possible from the cabbages ; rut them across at the stalk end, or if very large divide them into quarters. Soak them /I cold water to get out any insects, and ilrain them dry ; then put them into plenty t)f fast boiling water, with the salt and a very rmall piece of soda ; press them down in vvater once or twice, keep them un- covered, and let them boil quickly until tender. When done, lake them up into a colander to drain, covering them over, and, when dry, sen.'e them neatly arranged on a hot dish. To Boil Brussels Sprouts. Time, ten to twelve minutes after the water boils. 445. Some sprouts ; a tablespoonful of salt; half a gallon of water. Pick carefully off all the dead leaves from a pint of Brussels sprouts, and wash them clean ; then put them into a saucepan of boiling salt and water, with a very small piece of soda. Boil them very quickly, with the pan uncovered, until tender; then drain them through a colander, and serve them arranged in a light pile in the centre of the dish, with a tureen of melted butter. Cabbage with Forcemeat—a la Francaise. 446. A large cabbage ; a slice of bacon ; a sprig of thyme ; two carrots ; one bay- leaf : some gravy ; pepper and salt; minced meat or forcemeat. Take off the outer leaves, and cut off the stalk from a fine cabbage ; scald it in hot water for ten minutes, make a hole in the middle, by the side of the stalk, and fill it and between each leaf\'i\'d\ minced beef, or mutton highly seasoned, or with some sau- sage forcemeat, bind it round neatly, and stand it in a stewpan with some gravy, a slice of bacon, a sprig of thyme, the ba}'- leaf, and two carrots ; let all stew gently, and when done place the cabbage on a dish, untie the string, and pour the strained gra\-y round it. Garnish with carrots and turnips, and serve it up very hot. To Boil Spinach. Time, ten to fifteen minutes to boil the spi- nach ; four or five minutes to warm. 447. Two large basketfuls of spinach ; a piece of butter the size of an egg ; pepper and salt. Pick the spinach very clean, and put it into several waters until not a particle of grit is remaining; then put it into a irn'large saucepan, with just sufficient water to pre- vent its buiTiing, sprinkling in a large spoon- ful of salt. Press it down with a wooden spoon several times, and when it is quite tender, drain it in a colander, and chop it up very fine ; then put it into a stewpan with a piece of butter the size of an egg, and a little pepper. Stir it over the fire until very hot, put it into a dish, and garnish with sippets of bread, or press it into a hot mould and turn it carefully out. Lay poached eggs at the top.