F30 Sweet Dishes. Ilie flat side downwards. Whisk the white Df egg quite firm, spread it over them, then Strew some lemon peel cut very thin and in shreds, and sift double-refined sugar over the whole. Bake them half an hour, and then place them on a hot dish, and serve them quickly. Rice and Pears. Time, one hour and a half. 635. One breakfast cup and a half of rice ; one pint of milk ; a large tablespoon- ful of sugar ; three eggs ; a little cinnamon and nutmeg ; baked pears. Boil the rice till tender in the milk, then put in the cinnamon, sugar, and nutmeg. Take it up, let it get nearly cold, beat the eggs well, and mix them with the rice. Butter a mould, put the rice in, tie it down tightly in a floured cloth, and let it boil for an hour. Turn it out ; lay round it baked pears. Garnish it with slices of lemon stuck into the rice. A Charlotte de Pommes. Time, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. 636. The crumb of a stale loaf; apple marmalade ; apricot jam. Butter a plain mould, and line it with thin slices of the crumb of a stale loaf dipped into clarified butter, joining each slice neatly to prevent the syrup from escaping, which would spoil the appearance of the Charlotte when done. Then fill the mould with apple marmalade and apricot jam ; cover the top with slices of bread dipped into butter, and on the top of the bread put a plate with a weight on it. Set the mould in a quick oven from three-quarters of an hour to one hour, according to the size. Turn it out with care, having drained any butter from it before it is taken from the mould. Sift loaf sugar over it, or cover it with clear jelly, and serve it hot. A Cake Trifle. 637. A Savoy cake, or a Naples cake ; a pint of milk ; yolks of four eggs ; whites of two ; two ounces of sugar ; one teaspoonful of peach water ; any jam you please. Take a Savoy, or Naples cake; cut out the inside about an inch from the edge and bottom, leaving a shell; fill the inside with a custard made of the yolks of four eggs beaten with a pint of boiling milk, sweetened with two ounces of powdered sugar, and flavoured witlr a teaspoonful of peach water. Lay on it some strawberry, or any other jam you may prefer ; beat the whites of two eggs, with a little sifted sugar, until they will stand in a heap. Pile it up on the cake ever the preserve, and serve. To Make a Eich Trifle. 638. Eight spongecakes ; four ounces of macaroons ; four ounces of ratafias ; three ounces of sweet almonds ; the grated peel of one large lemon; a pot of raspberry jam ; half a pint of sherry, or raisin wine; three wineglasses of brandy; one pint of rich custard. For (he Whip.—One pint of cream ; whites of two eggs ; one glass of white wine : three ounces of loaf sugar. Put the cream, pounded sugar, glass of white wine, and the whites of two new-laid eggs into a bowl, and whisk them to a stiff froth. As the froth rises take it off with a skimmer, and put it on the reversed side of a sieve to drain, and when the whole is finished, set it in a cool place until the next day. Then put the spongecakes at the bottom of the glass trifle-dish ; then the macaroons and the ratafias, and pour over them the wine and brandy. Wlien well soaked, grate over them the peel of a large lemon, then add the almonds blanched and cut into thin shreds, and the raspberry jam. Pour over the whole a pint of rich custard, and pile the whip lightly over the top. Or- nament it with flowers or with crystallized fruits of any bright colour. Tipsy Cake. Time, one hour and three-quarters or two hours, to soak the cake. 639. One large round stale spongecake ; one glass and a half of brandy ; sufficient sherry or raisin wine to soak it; juice of half a lemon; three ounces of sweet almonds ; one pint of rich custard. Place a large spongecake in the glass dish in which it is to be served ; make a small hole in the centre, and pour in over the cake a sufficient quantity of sherry or raisin wine (mixed with a glass and a half of brandy and the juice of half a lemon), to soak it thoroughly. Then blanch two or three ounces of sweet almonds; cut them into long spikes, stick them all over the cake, and pour round it a pint of very rich custard. Meringues. 640. Whites of four small eggs; half a pound of finely-powdered sugar ; lemon or vanilla flavouring. Whisk the whites of four small eggs to a high froth, then stir into it half a pound of finely-powdered sugar; flavour it with vanilla or lemon essence, and repeat the whisking until it will lie in a heap; then lay the mixture in lumps on letter paper, in the shape of half an egg, moulding it with a spoon, laying each about half an inch apart. Then place