27 Hoiv io Stew and Fry. When fish are broiled without paper, great care should be taken to have the grid- iron very hot before they are put on it, and to rub the bars with butter. To preserve the skin of the fish entire when broiled, it should (after being washed and cleansed) be nibbed well with vinegar, dried in a cloth, and floured. The flour will keep it from adhering to the bars. A cinder or charcoal fire is best for broiling fish. Wliile you are broiling sliees of cold meat, put into a hot dish a piece of butter the size of a walnut and a teaspoonful of ketchup— melt them together, and lay the meat from the gridiron on the gravy made by these ingredients as soon as it is done. How to Stew. Stewing is a wholesome, exxellent, and economical mode of cooking. Very little fuel is used for it, and meat so prepared is both digestible and delicious. But boiling is not stewing; and we warn our readers that all we have said in praise of it may be reversed if they let the stewing-pan do more than simmer very gently. Stewing is best done over a regular stove ; but when a cook can command only an old-fashioned kitchen- range she must place her stew-pan on trivets high above the fire, and constantly watch it, and move it nearer to, or further from the fire. Stewing must of course always be done over a slow fire, and tiie steiv-pan lid should shut quite closely. It should be kept at a gentle simmer, without letting it boil, and it must stew for several hours, according to the weight of the meat, which is not to be considered done until it is quite tender. Sometimes the cook stews the meat in ajar, placed in a stew-pan full of water, and thus extracts the pure gravy unmixed with water. We have, also, a recipe for stewing meat and vegetables to- gether, without water being put in the jar with them, thus making an excellent soup from the union of the pieces of the meat and the water contained in the vegetables. How to Fry, Cooks should always have two frying-pans, and a third, not much bigger than a large plate, for omelets, fritters, &c., if they have no saute-pan. The pan must be kept deli- cately clean and nice ; the butter, dripping, lard, or oil in whicli the fish, meat, &c., is fried must always be boiling hot before the meat is put into tlie pan. The rule is that a sufficient quantity of fat must be heated thus in the pan, io cover the steak, chop, or whatever is to be fried—frying being ac- tually boiling in fat instead of water. Mutton cliops do not require any fat in the pan with them ; they have enough in them- selves, but they must be often turned and moved about to prevent them from burning. Of course we speak only of chops cooked quite plain—i.e., without being egged and bread-crumbed. Cut and skin the chop nicely, and season it with a little pepper before putting it in the pan. Lamb cutlets, and lamb chops, must be egged and bread-enimbed twice, in order to look well. Steaks should be cut three-quarters of an inch thick for frying, and should be pep- pered, but not have salt put on them before they are dressed, as it makes them hard. When done, a little salt is sprinkled lightlj' over them. Cutlets, a la maintenon, and mullet arf fried in buttered paper covers. The first process in frying is to put enough dripping or butter in your pan to cover the chop or steak when the butter is melted. Then the fat must be made to boil in the pan, and when at its greatest heat the sub- stance to be fried must be plunged into it. The pan must then be lifted from the fire for a minute or two, to prevent the outside from getting black before the inside is dressed. Fish must be well dried before frj'ing, in a cloth well sprinkled with flour; or first they may be wiped well, thoroughly dried and dredged with flour. Then an egg is well bmshed over them, and finely-grated bread, or biscuit, is sprinkled over them. The fat should be gjiite at boiling-point (when it will no longer hiss or bubble) before the fish is put in, and it should be well covered by the liquid butter, or oil, which, by-the-bye, is much the best for fry- ing fish in, but of course it is expensive. Hog's lard, and dripping are also used in economical kitchens. The frying-pan should never be left for a moment till the fish is done. In kitchens where strict economy is de- manded, it is usual when liver and bacon are to be dressed to fry the bacon yrsl, which will leave enough fat in the pan for the liver to be put in without either butter or dripping, but this mode, though econo- mical, is veiy coarse, and we do not recom- mend it. The liver will be more delicate if it be fried before the bacon. To GIaz3. Glazing is done by boiling down good rich beef slock till it is reduced to Iho con- sistence of a thin, bright brown paste. Of course all fat and sediment must first be removed from the stock before it is boiled down for glaze. It should be done over a quick fire, boiled fast till well reduced, then changed into a smallcv stew-pan, and should