49 Soups. the same way : they require no sauce, unless it may be a little lemon pickle or ketchup. Baked Gurnets. Time, thirty or forty minutes. 116. Two gpjrnets ; two or three slices of bacon ; one onion ; half a pint of melted butter ; two tablespoonfuls of Harvey sauce. Stuff the gurnets with veal stuffing, sew lliem up with packthread, and put the tail found the fish's mouth, as you do the whit- ing or haddock. Put them in a baking dish, cover them with thin slices of bacon, and bake in a hot oven for about half an hour, or longer if they are large fish. When done, put them on a dish, and serve with sauce over them, made of the onion, melted butter, and Harvey sauce. Fish Cake of Cold Fish. Time, two hours. 117. The remains ofanycoldfish; as cod ; soles : turbot, &c. ; a bunch of sweet herbs ; bread-crumbs ; cold potatoes; a sprig of parsley ; one or two eggs ; pepper and salt; quite half a pint of water. Pick the meat from the fish with two forks, and mince it very fine ; mix it well %vith equal quantities of bread-crumbs and cold mashed potatoes, and season it highly with pepper and salt. Rit the bones, heads, and trimmings of the fish into a stewpan, with the sweet herbs, parsley, and a little pepper and salt; pour over it about a pint of water, and let it simmer slowly for an hour and three-quarters, or longer if not done enough. Make the minced fish, bread, and potatoes into a cake, binding it with the white of a beaten egg ; brush it over with the yolk, strew it well with bread- crumbs, and fry it lightly. Pour over it the strained gravy, and set it over a gentle fire to stew slowly for nearly twenty minutes, stirring it occasionally. Garnish it with slices oflemon. SOUPS. The cook who would succeed in sending good soup to table must take care that she has strong and excellent stock ready for it, and the economical housewife will soon find that stock does not a/wry/r require meat to be bought for its production. The water in which mutton has been boiled, the liquor left from dressing a calf’s head, the bones taken from rplled ribs of beef, or from any boned joint, hare or poultry, will make excellent stock for a family soup. Fish bones will also produce a good jelly for it. The trimmings of large joints or cutlets, the shanks of mutton, tlij shank of a ham, the large bone of the sirloin of beef, will all add to the stock-pot, and supply a good foundation for her soup. O.x. cheek carefully managed, and sheep's head and trotters, also make excellent stock with a flavouring of ham or anchovy for the soup. Soup should never be made with hard water, unless it is of green peas, in which case the water must be hard to preserve their colour. The rule as to quantity is : a quart of water to a pound of meat without bone ; but whenever this quantity of water is diminished the soup is increased in strength and rich- ness. Meat should be put into the soup-kettle with vay little water at first, and with a piece of butter to keep it from burning. It should be let stew very slowly till the es- sence of the meat is extracted. "Very long, very slow stewing, is the certain way to pro- cure good soup. " I'he more haste the worst speed " is the proverb of the soup-kettle. Skim the soup frequently also, and do not let it cool until it is quite made. Let the. meat of which your soup is made be freshly killed, and very lean, every particle of fat should be removed from it. Onions should be put in the soup soon after it is begun to be made ; herbs, carrots, and celery, three hours afterwards ; turnips, or any delicate vegetable, just before the soup is finished. When celery is out of season, the seeds of the plant, tied up in a piece of clean muslin, will give the flavour equally well. To Colour Soups. A piece of bread toasted very brown may be simmered in the soup for a short time before it is done, and will give it a brown colour. The ordinary colouring, however, is done by putting a little burnt brown sugar into it. The sugar should be put into a saucepan with a piece of butter tlie size of a walnut, and a glass of ketchup ; it should be melted together, and then put into the soup-kettle. For those who do not dislike them, burnt onions arc an improvement, both as to colour and flavour. Colouring to be kept for use is made thus ; a gill of water, a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, and half an ounce of roll butter, should be set over the fire in the smallest frying-pan and stirred till it is of a bright brown colour ; add to it half a pint of water, boil and skim it, let it get cold, and then bottle and cork it down for future use. The flavouring of soups must in a great measure depend on the cook ; her taste, therefore, should be discriminating and 'i