136 Preserves and Piekles. <n the pan for half an hour, then divide it into cakes, put them on a baking tin, and bake them in a well-heated oven. Brown Bread Biscuits. Time; si.x or seven minutes. 674. One pound of coarse brown flour ; two ounces of butter ; and a little water. Make the butter and water boiling hot, add it to the flour, keeping it very firm. Roll the biscuits out, not too thin, and bake them in rather a quick oven. Lemon Biscuits. Time, fifteen minutes. 675. One pound and a half of flour ; a quarter of a pound of butter ; one pound and a half of loaf sugar ; three lemons ; two eggs. Dry well before the fire a pound and a half of flour, rub into it a quarter of a pound of butter as fine as possible, mix with it a pound and a half of loaf sugar pounded, and the peel of tliree lemons chopped very fine. Well beat two eggs ; add to them the juice of two lemons, and stir thoroughly. Put the mixture into the flour, and mix all well together till you have a stiff paste ; roll it out to the thickness of a penny piece. and divide it into biscuits with a paste cutter. Bake them on a tin. Tliese biscuits should be kept in a tin box near the fire till wanted, as they are apt to give. Ginger Biscuits. Time, seventeen or eighteen minutes. 676. Eight ounces of flour ; four ounces of butter; four ounces of loaf sugar; yolks of three eggs, and some ground ginger. Beat the butter to a cream before the fire; add the flour by degrees, then the sugar pounded and sifted, and a flavouring to taste of ground ginger, and mix the whole with tlie yolks of three well-beaten eggs. When thoroughly mixed, drop the biscuit mixture on buttered paper, a suffi- cient distance from each other to allow the biscuits to spread, and bake them a light colour, in a rather slow oven. Plain Biscuits. Time, ten minutes to bake. 677. One pound of flour ; half a pint of milk ; two ounces and a half of fresh butter. Dissolve the butter in the milk made warm but not hot, and stir it into the flour to make a firm paste, roll it out thin, and cut it with a plain tin shape or a tumbler ; prick each biscuit and bake. PRESERVES AND PICKLES. To Preserve Damsons. Time, to boil and simmer, one hour. 678. Ten ounces of loaf sugar to every quart of fruit. Pick the stalks from the damsons, and put them into a stone jar with the loaf sugar pounded fine and sprinkled between each layer of damsons very thickly. Tie the jar over securely, and set it in a deep st'ewpan of cold water. Bring it slowly to a boil, and then let it simmer until the damsons are soft without being broken ; pour oflf the juice, and boil it for about a quarter of an Wur. Put the damsons carefully into pots. Strain the juice through very thick double muslin, or through a jelly-bag, and pour it over the damsons which have been pre- viously set to cool. When the jam is cold, cover the pots over with brandy papers, and the tops with paper moistened with the white of an egg. Damson Chees3. Time, one hour and a half, to boil. 679. To every quart of damsons allow a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar ; and to every pound of pulp add half a pound of sugar. Gather the damsons when full ripe, put them into a jar, and to every quart of damsons put a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar pounded. Bake them in a moderate oven until they are soft ; then rub them through a hair sieve. To every pound of pulp add half a pound of loaf sugar beaten fine. Boil it over a slow fire, and stir it all the time. Pour it into shapes; tie brandy paper over them, and keep them in a dry place. They will not be fit to use for three or four months. All cheese may be made by this receipt except greengage, which does not require so much sugar. Bed Goosebe' ry Jam. Time, one hour and a quarter. 680. Three pounds )f loaf sugar; six pounds of rough red gooseberries. Pick off the stalks and buds from the gooseberries, and boi them carefully but quickly for rather mor . than half an hour, stirring continually; then add the sugar pounded fine, and boil the jam quickly for half an hour, stirring it all the‘time to