Jellies and Stveet Dishes. 12S’ Take any tin mould that will serve to form a basket, and rub it over with fresh butter to prevent the eandy sticking to it. Dip the cakes in the barley-sugar, which must be kept hot, and fasten them together with it, each row of cakes being cold and firm before the next is put on ; then take it from the mould and keep it in a dry place until wanted. Fill it with a whipped straw- berry cream which has been drained on a sieve the preceding day, and put into the whip ripe strawberries. JELLIES AND SWEET DISHES. The Foundation of all Jelly. 634. One shilling packet of Nelson’s gelatine ; half a pint of cold water; one pint of hot water ; the peel of five lemons ; one small stick of cinnamon; six cloves ; juice of six lemons ; half a pint of sherry ; a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar ; whites of five eggs. Take a packet of gelatine, dissolve it in half a pint of cold water, and then add a pint of hot water, the peel of five lemons without the pith, a small stick of cinnamon, the cloves, the juice of the lemons, the sherry, and the loaf sugar. When done, clarify it with the shells and whites of five eggs. If you wish to make any other kind of jelly omit the sherry, and add for instance orange juice for orange jelly, or the juice of strawberries, cherries, pineapple, or any other fruit. The jelly takes its name from its flavouring. No jelly of several colours should be set warm, as the different colours run and weaken it extremely. Calf’s Feet Jelly. Time, to boil the feet, until reduced to one quart; to reboil the jelly, a quarter of an hour. 625. Two calf’s feet ; two quarts of water; half a pound of loaf sugar ; one pint of white wine ; a wineglass of brandy ; four lemons ; whites of four eggs. Cut two feet in small pieces after they have been well cleaned and the hair taken off. Stew them very gently in two quarts of water till it is reduced to one quart. When cold, take off the fat and remove the jelly from the sediment. Put it into a saucepan with half a pound of loaf .sugar, a pint of white wine, a wineglass of brandy in it, four lemons with the peel rubbed on the sugar, the whites of four eggs well beaten and their shells broken. Put the saucepan on the fire, but do not stir the jelly after it begins to warm. Let it boil a quarter of an hour after it rises to a head ; then cover it close, and let it stand .about half an hour; after which, pour it through a jelly-bag, first dipping the bag in hot water to prevent waste, and squeezing it quite dry. Pour] the jelly through and through until clear, then put it into the mould. Jelly from Cowheels. Time, to boil the cowheels, seven hours, or until reduced to three pints; boil five minutes after the wine is added. 626. Two cowheels ; one gallon of water; one pint of white wine; half a pound of loaf sugar; juice of five, peel of four lemons ; whites of si.x eggs. Put two thoroughly clean cowheels into a stewpan with a gallon of spring water, and let it boil until reduced to three pints. When cold, skim off the cake of fat, and take the jelly carefully from the sediment at the bottom ; put the jelly into a stewpan with the white wine, loaf sugar, and the juice of the lemons. Beat up the whites of six eggs ; throw them into the jelly ; stir it all together, and let it boil five minutes. Then pour it into a jelly-bag, and let it ran on the peels of four lemons placed in the basin the jelly runs into, as the peel will give a fine flavour and colour. If not perfectly clear, run it through again. Pour it into a mould, and turn it out the next day. Orange Jelly. Time, until it almost candies. 627. Peel of two Seville, two China oranges, and two lemons ; juice of three of each ; a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar ; a quarter of a pint of water ; two ounces of isinglass. Grate the rinds of the Seville and China oranges, and lemons ; squeeze the juice of three of each ; strain it, and add the juice to the sugar and the water, .and boil it until it almost candies. Have ready a quart of isinglass jelly made with two ounces of isinglass ; put to it the syrup, and boil it once up. Strain off the jelly, and let it stand to settle before it is put into the mould. Clear Apple Jelly. Time, one hour and a half to boil the apples ; a quarter of an hour the jelly. 628. Two dozen and a half of pippins; one quart of spring water to every pint of