Sauces— G/asc— Gravies. 59 Oyster Sauce. Time, five minutes. 165. One dozen of oysters ; half a tea- ftupful of good gravy ; half a pint of melted toutter. Stew the beards of the oysters in their rown juice with half a teacupful of good clear ^jravy ; strain it off, add it to the melted t Dutter—which should be ready—put in the coysters, and let them simmer gently for tj;hree minutes. Shrimp Sauce. Time, five minutes. 166. One pint of shrirrfps ; half a pint of melted butter; essence of anchovies, one i/.easpoonful; Cayenne, just a pinch. Mi.v the essence of anchovies and Cayenne v.,vith half a pint of melted butter ; add the point of shrimps (picked) to the melted but- t;er when boiling ; then set it on one side of 1' he fire till the tiny fish are heated through, lout do not let it boil again. A very little pbiece of lemon improves this sauce. Sauce Blonde for any Fish. Time, thirty-si.x minutes. 167. A cupful of melted butter ; three tvablespoonfuls of good stock ; two mush- .”ooms ; a sprig of parsley ; one onion ; one i-.-emon ; one glass of wine ; yolks of three I rggs ; pepper ; salt; and mace. Put a cupful of melted butter and three I-ablespoonfuls of stock into a stervpan with :.i sprig of parsley, an onion cut into slices ; t 'WO mushrooms minced very fine, a lemon c ;ut into thin slices, and a glass of white '• vine. Set this sauce over a slow fire, and let i: t stew for half an hour ; then add the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and stir the pan over the fire for five or si.x minutes ; strain I he sauce through a sieve, and serve it with liny fish. Anchovy Sauce for Fish. Time, four minutes. 168. Three dessertspoonfuls of anchovy essence ; half a pint of melted butter ; sea- ■ ;oning to your taste. Stir three dessertspoonfuls of anchovy es- ; ;ence into half a pint of good melted but- 1 er, add a seasoning to your taste, and boil i t up for a minute or two. Use plenty of 'Cayenne and a little mace in this sauce. Mayonnaise Sauce. 169. Yolks of two eggs; one lemon; ' lalad oil; one spoonful of pepper ; one : ipoonful of salt; same of moist sugar. A Mayonnaise is simply a French dressing : or salad. Mix the yolks of two or three eggs with the pepper and salt ; then work together with them the salad oil; mix it so thoroughly that it may appear a perfect cream. Keep by your side a lemon cut in two. As soon as the oil and eggs begin to mix, squeeze in the lemon juice, add more oil, drop by drop, then more lemon juice, till the mixture is finished. Add the oil by degrees, not all at once. Let it be a per- fect cream before you use it. Use a wooden spoon, and mix in a cool place. Glaze. Time, till it becomes a jelly. 170. Boil some very strong clear gra-vy or jelly over a quick fire to the thickness of cream, stirring it constantly until it will adhere like jelly to the spoon. It must then be immediately poured out of the stewpan : the greatest care is required during the time of thickening to prevent it from burning. When required for use, dissolve it by plac- ing the jar (or whatever it may be kept in) in boiling water, and brushing it over the meat two or three times, when it will form a clear varnish. Any kind of very rich stock can be boiled down to a glaze. To be used for hams, tongues, &c. To Brown Flour. Time, five minutes. ■ 171. Put some flour in a pan or dish, and set it in the oven or over the Are. Stir it about that it may not burn ; but let it brown well. Keep it in a dredging box for brown- ing ordinary gravies. A Cheap Brown Gravy. Time, two hours. 172. One pound of gravy beef; one sheep’s melt; pepper and salt ; one small onion ; a little celery, and a tablespoonful of ketchup. Take a pound of gravy beef and a sheep's melt, cut it into slices, dredge them with flour, and fry them lightly in butter ; then pour in hot quite a pint of water. Add a seasoning of pepper and salt, a small onion, and a piece of celery cut into slices. Set the stewpan over the fire, and let it stew slowly for two hours. Skim it well; strain it; add a spoonful of ketchup, and set it by for use. Kidney Gravy. Time, one hour and three-quarters. 173. Four kidneys ; two ounces and a half of butter ; a few sweet herbs ; a little salt and Cayenne ; one tablespoonful of ketchup; half an onion ; one pint of water. Slice four kidneys, cut them into pieces and dredge them with flour ; put them into