To Boil Vegetables. JO3 Boiled Turnips. Time, one hour to one hour und a quarter ; young ones, twenty minutes. 448. Turnips ; a spoonful of salt to every half gallon of water. Pare the turnips, and cut them into quar- ters, put them into a stewpan of boiling water, and salt in the above proportion, and boil them until quite tender; then drain them dry, and rub them through a colander with a wooden spoon (add a tablespoonful or two of cream, or milk), and put them into another stewpan with a large piece of butter and a little white pepper ; stir them over the fire until thoroughly mixed and very hot. Dish them up, and serve them with boiled mutton, &c. Turnips may be served whole, plainly boiled, if very young. To Boil French Beans. Time, moderate size, fifteen to twenty minutes. 449. French beans ; a little salt; and water. Take as many French beans as you may require, cut off the tops and bottoms, and rem.ove the strings from each side ; then divide each bean into three or four pieces, cutting them lengthways, and as they are cut put them into cold water with a little salt. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, drain the beans from the cold water, and put them in. Boil them quickly with the saucepan uncovered, and as soon as they are done drain them in a colander. Di.sh and serve them with a small piece of butter stirred into them. To Boil Broad Be'.ns. Time, a quarter of an hour if young ; twenty to twenty-five minutes if of a moderate size. 450. One peck of beans ; one tablespoon- ful of salt; and half a gallon of water. After shelling the beans put them into a saucepan of boiling salt and water, and boil them quickly for a quarter of an hour if young, or longer if of a moderate size. When done, drain them on a colander, and serve them with parsley and butter in a separate tureen. Boiled bacon should always be served with broad beans. To Boil Haricot Beans. Time, two hours to two hours and a half. 451. One quart of beans ; a piece of butter the size of a walnut; half a gallon of water; a spoonful of salt. Shell a quart of haricot beans, and soak them in cold water for three or four hours; then put them into a large pan of cold water and salt in the above proportions, and when boiling, draw them to the side to simmer for two hours, or longer, if necessary. When done, drain the water from them, and let them stand uncovered until dry; then add a seasoning of pepper and salt, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut ; shake them over the fire for a few minutes until hot; then turn them carefully out without breaking the haricots, and serve them quickly. To Boil Beetroot. Time, one hour, one hour and a half, or two hours. 452. Beetroot; vinegar; salt; and pepper. Winter beets should be soaked over night, and before boiling washed very clean ; then put them into a stewpan of boiling water, and boil them quickly. If not very large, one hour will be sufficient for them, but if large, a longer time must be allowed. When done, put them into cold water, and rub off the sldns with your hands ; then cut them into thin slices, put them into a dish, and pour over them some cold vinegar; add a little salt and pepper. If served with cold or boiled meat, mix a large tablespoonful of butter with a cupful of vinegar ; season with pepper and salt, make it very hot, and pour it over the beet- roots. If beetroot is in the least cut or broken be- fore dressed, the colour will be gone entirely. Boiled Vegetable Marrow. Time, ten to twenty minutes. 453. Some marrows ; one tablespoonful of salt to half a gallon of water. Peel the marrows and put them into a saucepan of boiling water and salt. When tender, take them out, cut them into quarters if large, if not, halve them. Seiwe them in a vegetable-dish on toast, with a tureen of melted butter sent to table with them. Vegetable Marrows—Another Way. Time, ten or twenty minutes ; if large, half an hour to three-quarters of an hour. 454. Some vegetable marrows; two ounces of butter ; a little salt ; and some melted butter. Cut the marrows into four or six pieces ; peel them neatly, and boil them in a stew- pan of water with a little salt, and about two ounces of fresh butter. When done, drain them on a sieve, and serve them on a hot dish with some melted butter iiourcd over them ; or the marrows may be cut in halves, and shaped at the top in a point, aj for Jcru.salem artiehnkes. When done, ap