132 Baking Biscuits and Cakes. mustard ; two of salt; two tablespoonfuls of butter. Mi.x all the above ingredients as smooth as possible in a soup plate, put with it the cold meat, or whatever you wish to devil. Stew it gently until thoroughly warmed, and then you will have a good devil. Eamakins. Time, to bake, a quarter of an hour. 647. Two eggs ; one teaspoon ful of flour ; two ounces of melted butter ; two ounces of grated cheese ; two tablespoonfuls of cream. Mix a teaspoonful of flour with two ounces of grated cheese, two ounces of melted butter, two tablespoonfuls of cream, and two well-beaten eggs. Stir all together, and bake it in small tins. You may add a little Cayenne pepper if you please. A Fondue. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 648. A quarter of a pound of butter ; three tablespoonfuls of flour ; three gills of cream ; one ounce of Parmesan cheese ; four eggs. Mix a quarter of a pound of butter with three tablespoonfuls of flour; add to it three gills of cream, and stir it over the fire till thoroughly cooked. Add sufficient grated Parmesan cheese to flavour it. Break four eggs, separating the yolks from the whites ; add the yolks well-beaten to the above mixture. Whisk the whites very firm ; put them on the mixture, and bake in a moderately-quick oven. Toasted Cheese. Time, ten minutes. 649. Cut equal quantities of Gloucester cheese, and having pared it into extremely small pieces, place it in a pan with a little Oiilk, and a small slice of butter. Stir it over a slow fire until melted and quite smooth. Take it off the fire quickly, mix the yolk of an egg with it, and brown it in a toaster before the fire. Welsh Eabbit. Time, ten minutes. 650. Half a pound of cheese ; three table- spoonfuls of ale ; a thin slice of toast. Grate the cheese fine, put to it the ale, and work it in a small saucepan over a slow fire till it is melted. Spread it on toast, and send it up boiling hot. Mock Crab—Sailor Fashion. 651. A large slice of Gloucester cheese; a teaspoonful of mustard; the same of vinegar ; pepper and salt to taste. Cut a slice of Gloucester cheese rather thin ; but of good size round. Mash it up with a fork to a paste, mix it with vinegar, mustard, and pepper. It has a great flavour of crab. BAKING BISCUITS AND CAKES. An oven to bake well should have a re- gular heat throughout, but particularly at the bottom, without which bread or cakes will not rise, or bake well. An earthen basin is best for beating eggs, or cake mixture. Cake should be beaten with a wooden spoon, or spatula ; butter may be beaten with -the same. Eggs should be beaten with rods, or a broad fork ; a silver fork, or one made of iron wire, is best, as it is broadest ; eggs should be clear and fresh for a cake. It is well, as a general rule in cake mak- ing, to beat the butter and sugar (which must be made fine) to a light cream ; indeed, in the making of pound cake, the lightness of the cake depends as much upon this as upon the eggs being well beaten ; then beat tire eggs and put them to the butter, and gradually add the flour and other ingre- dients, beating it all the time. In common cakes, where only a few eggs .arc used, beat them until you can take a spoonful up clear from strings. In receipts in which milk is used as one ingredient, either sweet or sour may be used, but not a mixture of both. Sour milk makes a spongy light cake ; sweet milk makes a cake which cuts like pound cake. To blanch almonds, pour boiling water on them, and let them remain in it until the skins may be taken off; then throw the almonds into cold water to whiten them, drain them from the water, but do not wipe them ; the moisture will prevent their oiling. In making cakes, if you wish them to be pleasing to the palate, use double-refined sugar, although light brown sugar m.akes .a very good cake. For icing cakes, the sugar must be rolled and sifted, or pounded in a mortar. To ascertain whether a cake is baked enough, if a small one, take a very fine splint of wood and run it through the thickest part ; if not done enough, some of the doughj or unbaked cake will be found stickingto it; if done, it will come out clean.