Fish. 38 ynushroom. Place them before the fire for f./cw minutes to melt the butter, and serve tliem up quickl/. To Cook Kippered Salmon for Breakfast. Time, about five minutes to broil the salmon. 40. Half to tliree quarters of a pound of kippered salmon ; a little pepper. Have ready a well heated gridiron (the bars of which should be greased), and a nice clear fire. Cut the salmon into narrow bars of convenient size, wrap them in buttered writing paper, and broil, turning them once or twice. Serve on a very hot dish, laying the pieces across each other. Finnon Haddocks. Time, about ten minutes. 41. These fish, which arc much esteemed, are dressed open on account of one side being thicker than the other. They are generally bought prepared for cooking, and only require a little soaking before they are put on the gridiron. When done lay the fish on a hot dish, and put a little cold fresh butter on it. To Cook Bed Herrings and Bloaters. Time, five minutes. 42. Scrape them and wipe them nicely ; cut them from head to tail ; lay them open ; broil them on a greased gridiron for about ii.v minutes, turning them as required. ''iVlien they are done, lay them open on a /lot dish, and put a little butter on them. To Broil Black Puddings. Time, five minutes. 43. Make little diagonal cuts in the skin of the black pudding with a knife. Broil it over a brisk fire, turning it often. Serve it very hot. Sausages. Time, twenty minutes. 44. Prick the sausages with a large needle or fine skewer all over, this will prevent the .skin from cracking, broil them over a gentle fire for about twenty minutes. Serve very hot on toast. We prefer putting them into hot water for one minute before dressing, to e.xtract the oil from the skin. Directions for making sausage meat will be found under Ihc head of Pokk. FISH. Fi.siiisa delicious adjunct to the dinner table, and in some families may suffice for a good dinner by itself; but it requires nice id careful dressing. What can be more unappetizing than a fish brought to table broken all to pieces, as we liave seen it, or not half done—salmon red with blood—cod nearly raw—or mackerel not properly cleaned? It is a wicked waste of the pro- vision God has made for his creatures to thus spoil it, when a little attention and study may preserve it for us. And first, let great care be taken to well clean the fish before it is dressed. It is better to let the fishmonger clean it for you ; but if you are compelled to do it for your- self, take care that you slit it enough, so as not to leave any blood, &c., on the back- bone. We have been obliged to send fish from our own table untasted inconsequence of a careless cook neglecting this part of her duty. In almost all kinds of fisli the portions to be removed .are the gills, the alimentary or- gans, and the settlement of slime and other Impurities inside and outside the fish. Dex- terity must be used to cleanse the inside thoroughly without making too large an in- cision, which disfigures the fish when it comes to table, and may make it, if it is for boiling, water)'. The sound, which adheres to the bone, must be left undisturbed, but cleansed ; the hard and soft roe must also be left in their places ; and care must be taken not to injure the liver, but, with most fish, to replace it. Especial care must be taken not to break the gall, as that renders the fish very bitter. As a medium in which to fr)', there is nothing better than pure oil, but it is ex- pensive, because the fish must have abun- dance in the pan or it will not turn out well, and wear the bright gold hue that should characterize fried fish. If it be found inconvenient to use oil, plenty of good dripping or lard will do as well. Butter is apt to turn fish black and make them soft. It is utterly useless, however, to provide fine oil or clear fat for frying, if the pan be soiled or smoked, for that will spoil the colour and the flavour too of the fish, be it dressed as carefully as it can be in other respects. Fish-kettles, with plates of con- venient sizes, and kept scrupulously clean, are likewise necessary : also a gridiron for broiling. These utensils are requisite for the methods of dressing fish which are generally most popular. Supposing you chance not to have a fish- kettle and yet wish to dress fish by boiling, you may manage thus : put the fish in a circle on a dinner plate, and tie a napkin over it; then put it in a l.arge s.axicepan. When it has boiled long enough, t.ake it up carefully fy ih( cloth, drain ofif all thewatej