To Roast, Bake, and Boil Pork. 77 butcher's prepared for tlie spit ; but in case our readers should ever have occasion to scald and clean it for themselves, we will give a few directions Make ready a large pan of scalding water. While the water is boiling, put the pig into cold water for ten minutes; plunge it into the boiling water (holding it by the head), and shake it about till the hairs begin to loosen in the water. Take it out, dry it, and with a coarse cloth rub the hairs backwards till they are all removed. When it is clean, cut it open ; take out the entrails, and wash it thoroughly in a large pan of cold w'ater. Dry it in a cloth ; remove the feet at the first joint, leaving a little skin to pull over the bone. Fold it in a very wet cloth until you are ready to put it on the spit To Roast the Pig. Time, one hour and a half to two hours. 281. Half a pint of melted butter ; two ounces of fresh butter ; three-quarters of a pint or one pint of sage and onion force- meat. When the pig is well cleaned, make a forcemeat according to previous directions, or a veal stuffing forcemeat if preferred. Sew it up with a strong thread; truss it as a hare is trussed, with its fore-legs skewered back and its hind-legs fprward. Dry it well and rub it with a little flour. Set it before a clear brisk fire, arrange under it a dripping- pan and basins to catch the gravy. Bas’.e it with a little pure olive oil, or with its own gravy, rubbing it occasionally (when you do not use oil) with butter. When it is done, cut off the head, split it in halves, divide the pig with a very sharp knife down the centre, lay the backs together, put the ears on each side, and the halves of head at each end of the dish. Pour a very little thin melted butter and a squeeze of lemon juice over it. Send some of the same gravy and melted butter (seasoned with a little Cayenne) to table in a sauce tureen. Sauces to be eaten with it—bread sauc?, or tomato sauce, or apple sauce, as preferred. To Bake a Pig, Time, two hours. 282. Wash the pig very nicely, rub it with butter, and flour it all over. Well butter the dish in which you intend to bake it, and put it into the oven. When sufficiently done, take it out, rub it well over with a buttered cloth, and put it in again to dry. When it is finished, cut off the head and split it open ; divide the pig down the btick in halves. Lay it in the dish back to back, with one half of tho head at each end, and one of the ears on each side. Take off tTio fat from the dish it was baked in, and yon will find some good gravy remaining at the bottom : add to this a little veal gravy, with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and boil It up. Send it up in a tureen. A stuffing of bread-emmbs, chopped sage leaves, pepper and salt, should be put into the inside before it is baked, as is done for roast pig. Chine Roasted. Time, twenty minutes to the pound. 283. Half a pint of pork stuffing ; half a pint of apple sauce. Score the skin deeply, stuff the chine with pork stuffing, and roast it gently by a clear fire. To Boil a Chine. Time, a quarter of an hour to the pound, and twenty minutes over. 284. Lay it in brine for nine or ten days, turning it every day. When it is ready, put it into a saucepan, and more than cover it with water. Let it boil slowly, skimming it well. Send it to table when done, garnished with small well-trimmed cauliflowers or greens. To Roast a Leg of Pork. Time, twenty minutes to one pound. 285. The leg to be roasted should not weigh more than six or seven pounds. Score the rind or skin with a sharp knife all round the joint, place it at some distance from the fire, turn it constantly and baste it well. It will yield sufficient dripping to baste itself without butter. If the crackling and fat are not kept on, the joint will not require so long a time to roast it. Sauce : brown gravy, or tomato. To Roast a Leg of Pork the Old Fashioned Way with Stuffing. Time, twenty minutes for each pound. 286. Sage and onion stuffing ; a piece of butter. Select a fine small leg of pork, keep the skin on, and score it in regular stripes of a quarter of an inch wide with the point of a sharp knife ; cut a slit in the knuckle, raise the skin, put under it some nice sage a-nd onion stuffing, and fasten it in with a small skewer; put it at some distance from this fire, and baste it frequently. Just before it is done, moisten the skin all over with a ,.little butter, dredge it with flour, and place it near the fire to brown and crisp. When done, put it on a hot dish, pour a little gravy made in the dripping-pan round it, and serve with apple sauce.