75 Calf's Head—Roast Vear. (.\refully scrape off all the hair. Many tooks use scalding water only, but M. Soyer (whose name is a perfect authority) recommends the resin, and it certainly facilitates the operation, though it is not indispensable. Then take out the eyes, saw (Jie head in halves lengthways through the skull. Take the brain and tongue out. Half a calf's head is generally enough to ser\'e at one time, but a whole head is a very handsome dish. Break the jawbone, re- move the gums containing the teeth, and then lay the head in a large panful of warm water to disgorge. Calf’s Head Boiled. Time, to soak, one hour and a half; to simmer, one hour and a half. 269. Half a calf's head | half a pint of melted butter with -parsley ; one lemon ; a pinch of pepper and salt. Soak the half calf's head in cold water for an hour and a half, then for ten minutes in hot water before it is dressed. Put it into a saucepan with plenty of cold water (enough for the head to swim), and let it boil gently. When the scum rises skim it very carefully. After the head boils, let it simmer gently an hour and a half. Serve it wth melted butter and parsley over it, and garnish with slices of lemon and tiny heaps of fried parsley (see engrav- ing). Ham shoula be served with calf's head, or slices of bacon. Calf’s Brains and Tongue. Time, to boil ten or fifteen minutes. 270. A little parsley and thyme; one bay-leaf; a little pepper and salt; two tablespoonfuls of melted butter or cream ; juice of a quarter of a lemon ; a pinch of Cayenne. Separate the two lobes of the brain with H knife, soak them in cold water with a little salt in it for an hour ; then pour away the cold water and cover them with hot water; clean and skin them. Boil them then very gently in half a pint of water, take off the scum carefully as it rises. Take them up, drain and chop them, and put them to warm in a stewpan with the herbs chopped, the melted butter or cream, and the seasoning. Squeeze a little lemon vuice over them ; stir them well together. Boil the tongue ; skin it ; take off the roots ; lay it in the middle of the dish, and serve the brains round it. Hashed Calf’s Head. Time, one hour and a half. 271. Cold calf’s head; a bunch of savoury herbs ; two blades of mace ; a little Cayenne ; pepper and salt ; one lemon ; a gill and a half of slicrry, or any wliitc wine; two dessertspoonfuls of mushroom ketchup ; one onion ; one carrot; one quart of broth, or the liquor in which it was boiled. Cut the meat from the remains of a boiled calf's head, into small round pieces of about two inches across. Put a quart of broth or the liquor in which the head was boiled into a stewpan with a carrot, one small onion, two blades of mace, and a bunch of savoury herbs, and boil it until reduced to nearly half the quantity ; then strain it through a hair sieve, and add a glass and a half of white wine, the juice of a lemon, two des- sertspoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Lay in the slices of head, and when gradually well heated, let it just boil up. Then serve it on a hot dish, with rolled bacon and forcemeat balls as a garnish. Boast Loin of Veal—Plain. Time, three hours. 272. Take about seven pounds of the kidney end of a loin of veal, fasten the flap over the kidney with a small skewer, run the spit through the thick end lengthways, cover the veal with buttered paper, and place it before a good fire to roast. Just before serving, remove the paper, and froth it up by dredging it with a little flour, and basting it with butter. Pour melted butter over it when placed on the dish, and serve. The kidney and fat may be sent to table separately on a toast if preferred, but it is not very usual to do so. To Boast a Breast of Veal. Time, one hour and a quarter. 273. Take off the tendons from a breast of veal, skewer the sweetbread to the joint, and cover it with buttered paper, place it to roast for an hour and a quarter, or accord- ing to its weight. Serve it with melted butter and gravy, and sliced lemon. It can be roasted without the sweetbread, whicli as well as fTie tendons will serve for an entree. Boast Shoulder of Veal. Time, twenty minutes for each pound. 274. A shoulder of veal; some oyster or mushroom sauce. Remove the knuckle from a shoulder ot veal for boiling, and roast what remains as the fillet, either stuffed or not witli veal stuffing. If not stuffed, serve it with oyster or mushroom sauce, and garnish witli sliced lemon.