How to Make Bread and Rolls. 34 and a half to two hours, according to the size. German Yeast Bread. Time, one and a half to two liours. 13. Two quarterns of flour ; one table- spoonful of salt ; two ounces of dried Ger- man yeast; a cupful of water ; a pint and a half of warm water. Dissolve the yeast in a small cupful of cold water, and then add it to a pint and a lialf of warm water. Put the flour well mixed with the salt into a dgpp bread pan ; make a hole in the middle of the flour, and pour in the water and yeast; knead it up quickly, and let it stand near the fire covered over with a thick cloth for one hour ; then divide it into loaves, and bake them accord- ing to their size. You may make up a much larger quantity of flour, and bake the loaves two or three at a time, if care is taken not to keep the dough too warm. How to put Potatoes in Bread. Time, three hours. 14. Two pounds of potatoes ; half a pint of yeast; one ounce of sugar to one bushel of flour. Take two pounds of potatoes, boil them well, mash them, and, if dry, add a little water ; when so cold as not to scald the hand put in half a pint of yeast and one ounce of sugar. In three hours the mixture will be ready, and will suffice for a bushel of flour. Bread with Potatoes. 15. Half a gallon of potatoes ; five gallons of flour; some yeast ; and a little warm water. The evening previous to baking in the morning the dough must be set as follows :— The half gallon of potatoes must be rubbed through a sieve to five gallons of flour, the same quantity of yeast added as you would for common bread, and a little warm water. Cover it up to rise, knead it, and proceed as usual. To Make Brown Bread. Time, one or two hours, according to weight. 16. Three parts of second flour ; the fourth part of rye ; a little milk ; and the right pro- portion of water. Take three parts of second flour, and the fourth of rye, lay it one night in a cool place, and the next morning work it up with a little milk added to the water. Set it at a proper distance from the fire to rise, and then make into loaves and bake. Eico Bread. Time, to bake, one and a half to two hours. 17. One and a half pound of wliole Caro- lina or Patna rice ; fourteen pounds of flour; half a pint of yeast ; three ounces of salt; three quarts of water. Put the whole rice into a large stew-pan with three quarts of water ; boil it slowly for quite five hours, and then beat it to a smooth paste. Mix it while warm with the flour, adding the salt and the yeast, and proceed in the same manner as in making other bread, setting it to rise by the fire, &c. Tea Cakes or Loaves. Time, half or three-quarters of an hour. 18. One egg ; two ounces of butter ; half a pound of flour; two or three knobs of sugar. Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar pounded, and mix it with one beaten egg. It will make two small loaves for tea or breaMast. Breakfast or Tea Rolls. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. 19. One pound of flour ; a quarter of a pound of butter ; one tablespoonful of good yeast; one egg ; a little warm milk. Rub the butter into the flour, then add the yeast, breaking in one egg, both yolk and white. Mix it with a little warm milk poured into the middle of the flour ; stir all well together, and set it by the fire to rise, then make it into light dough, and again set it by the fire. Make up the rolls, lay them on a tin, and set them in front of the fire for ten minutes before you put them into the oven, brushing them over with egg. This paste may be used for fancy bread. Breakfast or Tea Cakes Hot. Time, half an hour. 20. Six handfuls of flour ; hair' a pint of milk ; a small piece of butter ; two ounces cd German yeast ; one egg. Put the flour in a basin, with half a pint of milk, and a small piece of butter ; warm the milk ; in the winter increase its tempera- ture. Mix two ounces of German yeast in a little cold water ; add it to the milk and batter; make a hole in the flour, and pour the mixed milk and yeast Ttito it, stirring it round until it is a thick batter; add to it one beaten egg ; cover it over, and set it before the fire, keeping it warm. When it has risen a little, mix it into a dough, knead it well, put it again in the warm, and when it has risen a great deal form your rolls. They will take nearly half an hour to bake, or