Baked and Boiled Pjiddinas. 121 Lemon Eice. Time, half an hour to boil the rice ; two hours to stew the peel. 576. Half a pound of rice ; one quart of new milk ; one lemon ; sugar to tasie. Boil the rice in a quart of new milk and some white sugar till it is very soft; put it into a mould, and set it in a cold place. Peel a large lemon very thickly, cut the peel into shreds about three-quarters of an inch long, put them into a little water, boil them Up, and drain them from the water. Then pour a teacupful of fresh water over the lemon shreds, squeeze and strain the juice of the lemon, add it with some white sugar to the water and shreds, and let it stew gently for two hours. When cold, it will be a .syrup. Having turned out the jellied rice from the mould on a dish, pour the syrup gradually over it, taking care that the shreds of lemon peel are equally distributed over the whole. Plain Eatafia Pudding. Time, to bake, twenty minutes. 577. A little sherry or raisin wine ; one spongecake; yolks of five, whites of two eggs ; one pint of milk ; two ounces of sugar; a little nutmeg; four ounces of ratafias ; any preserve you like. Put into the bottom of a buttered dish a si.xpenny spongecake cut across, and sprinkle over it four ounces of ratafias ; then pour over them the wine, and when soaked, add a layer of preserve. Whisk the yolks and whites of the eggs, mix them with the sweetened milk and a little flavouring if you like, pour it over the soaked cake, put the ratafias on the top, and bake it. Boiled Eaisin Pudding. Time, to boil, four hours and a half. 578. Half a pound of flour ; half a pound of bread-crumbs ; half a pound of beef- suet ; half a pound of raisins ; three ounces of sugar : two ounces of citron ; four eggs ; half a teacupful of milk ; a little nutmeg ; and ground ginger; one tablespoonful of brandy. Chop half fi pound of kidney-suet very fine ; add it to the bread-crumbs with a little grated ginger and nutmeg, the raisins stoned, the sugar pounded, and the citron cut into slices. Mix it all together, and then stir with it the well-beaten eggs, the milk, and a tablespoonful of brandy. Beat the mixture well together, and boil it in a floured cloth. Economical Eaisin Padding. Time, to boil, four hours. 579. One pound of flour; half a pound of suet I ten ounces of raisins, and some milk ; two ounces of sugar. Chop half a pound of suet very fine, and mix it with the flour dried ; stone the raisins, and stir them into the flour and suet with two ounces of fine brown sugar. Mix all well together, and pour in sufficient milk to make it into a rather stiff paste, tie it in a floured cloth, and put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it. When done, serve it with sifted white sugar over it. Boiled Ehubarb Pudding. Time, two hours to two hours and a half. 580. Four sticks of rhubarb ; four ounces of moist sugar ; rather more than half a pound of suet crust. Line a buttered basin with a good suet crust, wasli and wipe a few sticks of rhubarb, and pare off the outside skin, cut it into small pieces, fill the basin with it, strewing in the moist sugar, and cover it with the crust. Pinch the edges together, tie over it a floured cloth, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil from two hours to two hours and a half. When done, turn it out of the basin and serve. Snow Ball—for Children. Time, one hour. 581. Half a pound of rice ; one quart of water, or milk. Pick all imperfections from half a pound of rice, put it in water, and rub it between the hands ; then pour that water off, put more in, stir it about, let the rice settle, and then drain it from the water. Put the rice in a two-quart stewpan with a quart of water or milk, cover the pan, and let it boil gently for one hour, or until the water or milk is all absorbed. Dip some teacups into cold water, fill them with the boiled rice, and press it to their shape ; then turn them out on a dish, and serve with butter and sugar, or wine sauce. Boiled Sago Pudding. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 582. Two ounces of sago ; one pint of milk ; five eggs ; two Naples biscuits ; one glass of brandy ; sugar to taste. Boil the sago in the milk until it is quite tender. When cold, add five well-beaten eggs, the biscuits, brandy and sugar, beat all together, and put it into a buttered basin. Boil it three-quarters of an hour, and serve it with wine sauce poured over it. Baked Sago Pudding. Time, one hour. 583. One quart of milk ; four tablespooir fills of sago ; peel of one lemon ; five eggs