Curries and Indian Dishes. 93 , of meat. Set it over a brisk fire, and stir it well together for ten or twelve minutes. 'When done, serve it with a border of boiled :rice round the dish, or rice in a separate I dish. Veal Curry. Time, one hour and a half. 391. One pound and three-quarters or ttwo pounds of lean veal ; one Spanish .onion, or two small common ones ; one l.largc sour apple ; a piece of butter the size .of a large walnut ; two dessertspoonfuls of ccurry powder ; one teaspoonful of flour ; 'ijuice of half a lemon ; a pint of water. Cut a Spanish onion, or two small ones, ianto very small pieces, and a large sour .-.apple into thin slices ; put them into a stew- rpan with the butter, and stir it about until nightly browned. Then mi.v in the curry ppowder, the flour, and a pint of water ; add tihe veal cut into very small square pieces, .reasoned with salt, and stir it round several titimes, that it may be well covered with the ccurry mixture. Put it over the fire to stew sfelowly for an hour and a half, or until the weal is tender. Squeeze in the juice of half aa lemon strained, stir it round, and serve vvvith rice in a separate dish. Hindostanee Curry. Time, nearly two hours. 392. Two pounds of meat (beef, veal, or aany other you prefer) ; one pint and a half cDf water; four tablespoonfuls of curry foowder ; two onions ; one root of garlic ; ihhree ounces of butter ; two tablespoonfuls CDf cocoa-nut milk—or good cream ; ten iklmonds ; six cloves ; a blade of mace, a snmall piece of cinnamon, and a few car- ddamom seeds ; juice of one lemon. Boil the meat in a pint and a half of uvater, till about half done, then take it out, r.ind skim the broth ; and put to it the t;loves, mace, cinnamon, and cardamom weeds. Cut the meat into small square pieces, roll them well in the curry powder, rind fry them a nice brown in some butter. 1 ilut up the onions and the root of garlic, '.and fry them also until brown, but separate i rom the meat. Then add the whole to the Mroth, with the cocoa-?iut milk or a little :pod cream, and the almonds blanched and oounded. Cover the pan closely over, and ■ et it stew gently over a slow fire until well nixed and very hot; and just before serving iqueeze in the juice of a lemon. A Babbit Curry. I Time, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. 393. One rabbit ; one large spoonful of : :urry powder ; half a dessertspoonful of curry paste ; one large onion, or two small ones ; one ounce and a half of butter ; a rasher of bacon ; one large sour apple ; a very little flour ; one pint of good broth or stock. Cut one large onion, or two small ones, with a large sour apple into slices, and fry them a nice brown in about an ounce and a half or two ounces of butter ; then stir in the curry powder and paste, and pour in a pint of good broth or stock. Divide the rabbit, and cut the joints into rather small pieces, split the head, dredge it with flour, and add it to the other ingredients, with a large slice of bacon cut into little square bits. Cover the stewpan, set it over the fire, and let it stew gently for about three- quarters of an hour, or until the meat will leave the bones easily, and the sauce is thick. Pour off any fat, and sen-e it with boiled rice in a separate dish. Ballacbony, 394. One hundred prawns ; a little vine- gar ; two ounces of green ginger ; half an ounce of Chili; peel of four lemons ; two ounces of salt; juice of two lemons ; four onions ; two or three ounces of butter. Boil a hundred prawns, take off the shells and clean them, then grind them in a curry stone with sufficient vinegar to keep the stone wet. Take one ounce of green ginger, half an ounce of Chili, and the peel of four lemons, pound them separately ; then take two ounces of salt and the juice of two lemons, and mix all the ingredients with the prawns. Cut four onions in rings, and fry them with about two or three ounces of butter to keep them from burning. When the onions become soft and the ballachony dry, take it out and let it cool. To keep it any length of time, it must be put in jars with oravge leaves on the top, and closed up with bladder. Bobotee—A Delicate Kind of Indian Curry. Time, half an hour. 395. One onion ; one ounce of butter ; one cupful of milk ; one slice of bread ; six or eight sweet almonds ; two eggs ; half a pound of minced cold meat or undressed meat ; one tablespoonful of curry powder. Slice an onion and fry it in butter, soak in milk a small slice of bread, and grate six or eight sweet almonds, beat two eggs into half a cupful of milk, and mix the whole zudl together, with half a pound of minced meat, a small lump of butter, and one table- .spoonful of curry powder. Rub a pie disli with butter and the juice of a lemon, qnd bake the curry thus made in not too hot an