.5^ Vegetable Soups. the round in four. Cut leeks in slices. Cut celery in half-inch lengths, the delicate green leaves impart a fine flavour to the soup. Take the skins from tomatoes and squeeze out some of the seeds. Add a lump of sugar to soups of vegetables or roots, to :often them and improve the flavour. Green-Pea Soup for Lent. Time, two hours. 147. One quart of old green peas; one pint of young peas ; two quarts of water ; two lettuces ; one onion ; a sprig of mint; three ounces of butter; a liandful of spinach ; and a little pepper and salt. Boil in two quarts of water one quart of old green peas, and a large sprig of green mint, until they will pulp through a sieve. Put to the liquor that stewed them a pint of young peas, the hearts of two lettuces, a handful of spinach cut small, one onion, and three ounces of butter, melted with just enough flour to keep it from boiling, then add all together, and boil the soup for half an hour. Serve with fried bread. Pea Soup. Time, three hours. 148. One pint of split peas ; three quarts of spring water ; si.x large onions ; outside sticks of two heads of celery ; one bunch of sweet herbs ; two carrots ; a little dried mint; a handful of spinach ; a few bones, or tiny pieces of bacon ; pepper and salt to your taste. Boil all these vegetables together till they are quite soft and tender ; strain them I through a hair sieve, pressing the carrot pulp through it. Then boil the soup well for an hour with the best part of the celery, and a teaspoonful of pepper, add a little dried mint and fried bre.ad, with a little spinach. A few roast-beef bones, or a slice of bacon will be an improvement. Green Pea Soup. Time, two hours and a half. 149. Three cos lettuces ; three cucumbers ; one pint of green peas ; a sprig of mint ; one onion ; a little parsley ; four ounces of fresh buttw ; half a pint of thin gravy. Cut up three cos lettuces, pare and slice three cucumbers, add a pint of young green peas, a sprig of mint, one onion, and a little parsley. But all into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and let it stew half an hour, then pour in half a pint of thin gravy, stew it for two hours, thicken it with a little lump of butter rolled in flour, and serve. Winter Pea Soup—Plain for Family use. Time, four hours and three-quarters. 150. One pint of split peas ; three quarts of water ; a pound and a half of beef ; one handful of spinach ; one slice of ham or bacon ; a few cloves ; a little mace ; half a bunch of mint ; one lump of sugar ; one saltspoonful of pepper ; same of salt, or to your taste. Boil one pint of split peas in three quarts of water till quite soft. Then stew in the soup a pound and a half of beef and a slice of bacon, with the handful of spinach, the cloves and mace. Let it stew for two hours, rub it through a sieve, then stew in it half a bunch of mint and a little spinach cut in shreds, with pepper and salt to your taste, and a lump of sugar. Serve with fried bread cut into dice, on a separate dish. Common Carrot Soup. Time, four hours and a half. 151. Thirteen ounces of scraped carrot to a quart of gravy. Boil as many red carrots in water as you require until tender ; then cut up the red part and pound it very fine. Weigh it, and to every twelve or thirteen ounces of pounded carrot add a quart of gravy soup, or rich stock, mixed gradually with it; season with a little salt and Cayenne ; strain it through a sieve, and serve it very hot with fried bread cut into dice in a separate dish. Brown Onion Soup. Time, three hours. 152. Six large Spanish onions ; five quarts of water ; a little pepper and salt; a penny roll; yolks of two eggs ; two spoonfuls of vinegar. Skin and cut in thin rings six large Spanish onions, fry them in a little butter till they are of a nice brown colour and very tender ; then lay them on a hair sieve to drain from the butter. Put them into a stewpan witli five quarts of water, boil them for one hour, and stir them often ; then add pepper and salt to your taste. Rub the crumb of a penny roll through a colander, put it to the soup, stirring it well to keep it smooth as you do so. Boil it two hours more. Ten minutes before you ser\’e it, beat the yolks of two eggs with two spoonfuls of vinegar and a little of the soup ; pour it in by de- grees, and keep stirring it all the time one way. It will then be ready to ser\'e. This soup will keep three or four days. Potato Soup Time, three hours. 153. One pound and a quarter of shin of