Food in Season. II FOOD IN SEASON FOR EACH MONTH OF THE YEAR. January. Meats.—Beef, mutton, veal, pork, house- iamb. Poultry.—Pheasants, partridges, hares, rabbits, woodcocks, snipes, turkeys, pullets, capons, fowls, and pigeons. Fish.—Oysters, prawns, crabs, lobsters, crayfish, whitings, smelts, sturgeon, skate, turbot plaice, thornback, flounders, perch, tench, and carp. Vegetables.—Cabbage and sprouts, sorrel, endive, spinach, beet-root, celery, potatoes, parsnips, turnips, brocoli, shallots, lettuces, cresses, salsify, cucumbers, and asparagus ; mushrooms all the year. Fruits.—Pears, apples, nuts, grapes, medlars, and walnuts. February and March. All meats and game as in the former month, with the addition of chickens and ducklings. Fish.—Exactly as last month, excepting cod, which is not supposed to be quite so good up to July'. Vigetables.—Just the same as the previous month, only now you have kidney beans. Fruits.—Apples and pears, and forced strawberries. April, May, and June, —One Quarter. .'l/m/j.—Beef, mutton, veal, lamb, and in June venison. Poultry.—Pullets, fowls, chickens, duck- lings, pigeons, rabbits, and leverets. Vegetables as before, only in May early potatoes, peas, radishes, French beans, early cabbages, carrots and turnips, cauliflowers, asparagus, artichokes, and all kinds of salad, but this is forced. Fruits.—In June, strawberries, cherries, melons, green apricots, currants, and goose- berries for tarts only. Fish.—Cz.xx>, soles, tench, smelts, cels, trout, turbot, lobsters, chub, salmon, her- rings, crayfish, mackerel, crabs, prawns, and shrimps. luly, August, and September.—Second Quarter. Meats.—These arc not different from the former months, except pork, which com- mences in September. Poultry.—Pullets, fowls, chickens and rabbits, pigeons and green geese, leverets, turkeys, poults, the two former months ; wheatears and geese in September. Fish.—Cod, haddocks, flounders, skate, thornback, mullet, pike, and carp, eels and shell fish, but no oysters ; mackerel in July, it is not so good in August. Vegetables.—All as the previous months ; peas and beans. Fruits.—July, strawberries, gooseberries, pineapples, plums of all kinds, cherries apricots, raspberries, melons, damsons, white and red currants, pears, apples, grapes, nectarines, and peaches. In August and September peaches, plums, filberts, figs, mulberries, cheriies, apples, and pears, nectarines, grapes, pines and melons, strawberries. October. Meats do not differ ; this is the season for good doe venison. Poultry and Game.—Fowls of all kinds as the former quarter, pheasants from the ist October, partridges, larks, hares, wild ducks late in the month, teal, snipe, widgeon, and grouse. Fish.—Dories, smelts, pike, perch, hali- but, brills, carp, salmon, trout, barbel, gudgeon, tench, all shell fish. Vegetables are now as in January month. Fruits.—Peaches, pears, figs, bullaces, grapes, apples, medlars, damsons, filberts, walnuts, nuts, quinces. November. Meats.—Beef, mutton, veal, pork, house- lamb, doe vension. Poultry, game, fish, vegetables, and fruits. —As the last month. December. Meats.—As the former month. Poultry.—Geese, turkeys, pullets, pigeons, capons, fowls, rabbits, hares, snipes, wood- cocks, larks, pheasants, sea-lowls, Guinea fowls, wild ducks, teal, widgeon, grousq and dunbirds. Vegetables.—As in the last month. Fish.—Turbot, gurnet, soles, sturgeon, carp, gudgeon, eels, codlings, dories, and shell fish of all kinds.