J34 Cakes, Plain Cake. Time, one hour, or one hour and a half. 660. One pound of flour ; a quarter of a pound of beef dripping ; a quarter of a pound of moist sugar ; two eggs ; two spoonfuls of yeast; two ounces of caraway seeds. Rub the flour, beef dripping, and moist sugar well together ; beat up the eggs ; add the yeast and caraway seeds, and beat up all well together. Bake in a tin. Plain Short Bread. Time, twenty-five to thirty minutes for three cakes. 661. One pound of flour; half a pound of butter ; three ounces of brown sugar. Mix these ingredients and roll them out thick, and bake. Plain Plum Cake. Time, two hours and a half. 662. Two pounds of flour ; three spoonfuls of yeast; four eggs ; three-quarters of a pound of sugar ; one glass of sweet wine ; one teaspoonful of ginger ; peel of one lemon ; one pound of currants, or a few caraways. Rub eight ounces of butter into two pounds of dried flour ; mix it with three spoonfuls of yeast—not bitter—to a paste, and let it rise an hour and a half; then mix in the yolks and whites of four eggs beaten se- parately, one pound of sugar, some milk to make it a proper thickness, a glass of sweet wine, peel of a lemon grated, and a tea- spoonful of ginger. Add at the last a pound of currants washed and dried, or a few caraway seeds. A Eich Plum Cake. Time, two hours or more. 663. One pound of fresh butter; twelve eggs ; one quart of flour; one pound of moist sugar ; half a pound of mixed spice ; three pounds of currants ; one pound of raisins ; half a pound of almonds ; half a pound of candied peel. Beat the butter to a cream with your hand, and stir into it the yolks of the twelve eggs well beaten with the sugar ; then add the spice and the almonds chopped very fine. Stir in the flour ; add the currants washed and dried, the rasins chopped up, and the candied peel cut into pieces. As each in- gredient is added, tlie mixture must be beaten by the hand ; then butter a paper, place it round a tin, put in the cake, and bake it for two hours, or more, if re- quired. Eaisin Cake. Time, one hour and a quarter. 664. One pound of flour ; one pound ol sugar ; one pound of butter ; six eggs ; one wineglass of brandy in which rose-leaves have been steeped ; one small nutmeg; one small teaspoonful of soda or saleratus ; one pound of raisins. Beat a pound of butter to a cream, and add it to the same weight of flour, and of sugar pounded fine and stirred into the yolks of six eggs ; then beat in the whites whipped to a stiff froth, a glass of brandy, a small nutmeg grated, and a stjiall tea- spoonful of soda or saleratus dissolved in a tablespoonful of hot water. Beat the whole together until it is light and creamy ; then add a pound of raisins stoned and chopped. Strew a cupful of flour over them l^fore putting them into the cake ; line a tin with buttered paper ; put in the cake mixture, and bake it in a quick oven. Canadian Cakes. Time, fifteen minutes to bake. 665. A pound and a half of sifted flour ; one pound of loaf sugar ; one pound of fresh butter ; ten eggs ; two tablespoonfuls of orange-flower water; two tablespoon- fuls of wine or brandy ; half a pound of currants ; peel of half a grated lemon. Mix a pound and a half of sifted flour with a pound of powdered sugar ; rub into it a pound of fresh butter, then add ten well beaten eggs, two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, and two tablespoonfuls of wine or brandy, with half a pound of well cleansed and dried currants. Beat the mixture untl it is light and creamy, have some square tins lined with buttered paper, put the mix- ture into them half an inch deep, and bake in a quick oven. When served, cut it in squares or diamonds. This cake may be iced, but it must be marked as it is to be cut, before the icing is done. Sledmere Gingerbread. Time, three-quarters to one hour. 666. Half a pound of butter; half a pound of sugar ; half a pound of treacle: one pound of flour ; half an ounce of ginger ; one teaspoonful of carbonate of soda: four eggs. Put the butter, sugar, and treacle into a saucepan together, and place it over the fire to melt. Then beat four eggs, and stir the melted butter, sugar, and treacle into the eggs, add the powdered ginger anf' carbonate of soda. Stir all together into the flour, and bake.