Various Soups. <52 and the sweet herbs tied up in muslin. The turnips should be added half an hour before serving. If any portion of the meat is required for the table, take it from the soup about a couple of hours before dinner. Let the remainder be left in the soup, which must be strained through a hair sieve before it is served. Soupe et Bouilli. Time, eight hours. 125. Two pounds and a half of brisket of beef; two pounds of the leg of mutton ; piece of beef; one gallon of water ; one onion ; two carrots ; two turnips ; one leek ; one head of celery ; three cloves ; a little whole pepper • one French roll; one head of endive. Take about two pounds and a half of brisket of beef, roll it up tight, and fasten it with a piece of tape. Put it into a stewpan with two pounds of the leg of mutton, piece of beef, and a gallon of water ; let it boil slowly, skim it well, and put in an onion stuck with cloves, two carrots, two turnips, a leek, a head of celery cut into slices, with some whole pepper.;,- Cover the stewpan close, and stew the whole very slmoly for seven hours. About an hour before it is served, strain the soup quite clear from the meat. Have ready a few boiled carrots cut into wheels, some turnips cut into balls, the endive, and a little celery cut into pieces. Put these into a tureen with a roll, dried after removing the crumb. Pour the soup over these boiling hot, add a little salt and Cayenne, remove the tape from the beef, and serve it on a separate dish. A very Cheap Soup. Time, four hours. 126. One pound and a half of lean beef; six quarts of water ; three onions ; six tur- nips ; thyme ; parsley ; pepper and salt ; a half pound of rice ; one pound of potatoes; one handful of oattneal. Cut the beef into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with the water, onions, and the turnips ; add a bunch of thyme and parsley, a seasoning of pepper and salt, half a pound of Patna rice, a pound of potatoes peeled and cut in quarters, and a handful of oatmeal. Let all stew for four hours, and serve. Cottage Soup Baked. Time, three or four hours. 127. A pound of meat; two onions ; two carrots ; two ounces of rice ; a pint of whole peas ; pepper and salt ; a gallon of water. Cut the meat into slices, put one or two at the bottom of an earthen jar or pan, lay on it the onions sliced, then put meat again, then the carrots sliced. Soak the pint of peas all the previous night, put them in with one gallon of water. Tie the jar down, and put it in a hot oven for three or four hours. Poor Man’s Soup. Time, one hour and ten minutes. 128. Two quarts of water ; four spoonfuls of beef dripping ; an ounce and a half of butter : a pint basinful of raw potatoes ; a young cabbage ; a little salt. Put two quarts of water in a stewpan, and when boiling throw in four spoonfuls of beef dripping and an ounce and a half of butter, a pint basinful of raw potatoes sliced, and let them boil one hour. Pick a young cab- bage, leaf by leaf, or the heart of a white cabbage, but do not chop it small, throw it in and let it boil ten minutes, or till the cab- bage be done to taste, though when boiled fast and green it eats much better. Season it with a little -salt, and pour it over thin slices of bread in a tureen. A Frencli Receipt. Pot-au-Feu. Time, three hours. 129. Three quarts of water; four pounds of meat; two teaspoonfuls of salt; three small carrots ; three middling-sized onions (one being stuck with two cloves) ; a head of celery ; a bunch of thyme ; a bay-leaf, and a little parsley, tied together ; two tur- nips ; a burnt onion, or a little browning. Put the meat into a stock-pot full of water, set it over a slow fire, and let it gently boil, carefully taking oft" the scum that will rise to the top. Pour in a tea- cupful of cold water to help the scum to rise. When no more scum rises, it is time to put in the vegetables, which you should have ready washed and prepared. Cut the carrots in slices, stick the onions with cloves, cut the turnips each in four pieces. Put them into the pot, and let them boil gently for two hours. If the water boils away too much, add a little hot water in addition. A few bones improve tlie soup very much. It is not necessary to keep the pot veiy closely covered. It is better to raise the lid a little ; it facilitates the operation. Gravy Soup. Time, seven hours. 130. Seven pounds and a half of gravy beef; two pounds and a half of veal; two ounces of butter ; six quarts of water ; one large carrot: one small turnip ; three onions stuck with twelve cloves; half a head of