72 Haggis—Sheepss Head and Trotters—Lamb. allspice ; a bunch of savoury herbs ; half a head of celery ; a large piece of butter ; a spoonful of browning. Take some cold leg or shoulder of mut- ton, or any cold mutton that you chance to have, and with a sharp knife cut it into thin slices. Put the bones into a stewpan with half ahead of celery cut into slices, a bunch of savoury lierbs, a few pepper corns, four allspice, and a pint and a half of water ; set it over the fire, and let it simmer gently' for about an hour. Cut the onion into rings, fry them a nice brown, and put them into the stewpan with the bones and herbs. Let all simmer together for ten or twelve minutes, then strain it through a hair sieve, and when cold take off the fat. Put the slices of meat dredged with flour into the stewpan, add the gravy with a spoonful of browning, and two of walnut ketchup ; make it very hot, but do not let it boil. Serve it with sippets of toasted bread round the dish. Haggis. Time, two hours. 251. The heart, tongue, and part of the liver of a sheep ; rather more than half the weight in bacon ; one French roll; rind of a lemon ; two eggs ; a glass of wine ; two anchovies ; pepper and salt. Mince the heart, tongue, and part of the liver of a sheep with rather more than half the weight in fat bacon, add to it the cramb of a French roll, grated, two anchovies chopped very fine, the rind of a lemon, grated, a little pepper and salt, a glass of wine, and two eggs well beaten ; stir it thoroughly together, put it into a well but- tered mould, boil it for two hours, place it on a dish, and serve. Sheep’s Head. Time, two hours. 252. One head; two onions ; two carrots ; two turnips ; a piece of celery ; five cloves ; a sprig or two of thyme ; one bay-leaf; one ounce of salt ; a quarter of an ounce’ of pepper ; three quarts of water. Put the head into a gallon of water, and let it soak for two hours or more ; wash it thoroughly, saw it in two from the top. Take out the brain, cut away part of the uncovered part of the skull and the ends of the jaws ; wash it well. Put in a stewpan two onions, two.carrots, a stick of celery, or a little celery-seed tied up in muSlin, five cloves, a bouquet of thyme with a bay-leaf, one ounce of salt, a quarter of an ounce of pepper, and three quarts of water. Let the head simmer in it very gently. Take out the vegetables and bunch of herbs, Skim off the fat. Dish it up. Have the brain .ready boiled (it will take ten minutes to do), chop it up fine. Warm it in parsley and butter, put it under the head and serve. Sheep’s Trotters—very simple; Time, three hours. 253. Four trotters ; one tablespoonful of flour ; a saltspoonful of salt. Perfectly cleanse and blanch the trotters, taking care to remove the little tuft of hair which is found in the fourche of the foot. Beat up a spoonful of flour and a little salt in the water you use for cooking them in, and let them stew till the bones come out easily. LAMB. Boast Fore-Quarter of Lamb. Time, for ten pounds, two hours and a half. 254. Cut off the scrag from the shouldei; saw off the shank bone, and also the chine bone along the fillet of the leg, and joint it thoroughly ; partially saw the rib bones, and break the bone of the shoulder, twist it round, and fasten it with a skewer from be- neath the breast. Cover the lamb with but- tered paper, and spit it evenly ; roast it before a quick fire according to the weight. Just before removing it from the spit, dredge it with flour and a little salt, and baste it with butter to make it froth up. Twist a cut paper round the shank bone, place it on a hot dish, and pour round it a little gra\y made in the dripping-pan. Serve it with mint sauce in a tureen. A cut lemon, some Cayenne, and a piece of fresh butter should always be ready for use when the shoulder is separated from the ribs, to be laid be- tween it and them. Boned Quarter of Lamb. Time, a quarter of an hour to each pound. 235. One pound of forcemeat; melted butter. Bone a quarter of lamb, fill it with force- meat, roll it round, and tie it with a piece of string, cover it with a buttered paper, and roast it. Serv’c it with melted butter. Boast Target of Lamb. Time, one hour and a quarter, or according to weight. 256. A little butter, flour, and salt. A target is only the breast and neck joints not separated. Tlie flap bones must be taken from the neck, the chine bone sawed off, and the ribs well chopped. Cover it with buttered paper, place it in an even