To Dress Rabbits. 87' hour, if a large one, basting it well with butter. Before serving mix a spoonful of flour with four of milk ; stir into it the yolks of two well beaten eggs, and season with a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt ; baste the rabbit thickly with this, to form a light coating over it. When dry, baste it with butter to froth it up, and when done place it carefully in a dish, and pour round it some brown gravy, boiled up with the liver minced, and a little graied nut- meg. Serve with gravy in a tureen, and red jelly. A rabbit can be baked instead of roasted, and will require the same time in a good oven. To Truss Boiled Babbits. 347. After w'ell cleaning and skinning a rabbit, wash it in cold water, and then put it into warm water for about tw'enty minutes to soak out the blood. Draw the head round to the side, and secure it with a thin skewer run through that and the body. To Blanch Babbits, Fowls, &c. 348. To blanch or whiten a rabbit or fowl it must be placed on the fire in a small quantity of water, and let boil. As soon as it boils it must be taken out, and plunged into cold water for a few minutes. Boiled Babbit. Time, a very small rabbit, half an hour; medium size, three-quarters of an hour ; a large rabbit, one hour. 349. A rabbit; six onions ; liver sauce, or parsley and butter. When the rabbit is trussed for boiling, put it into a stewpan, and cover it with hot water, and let it boil very gently until tender. When done, place it on a dish, and smother it with onions, or with parsley and butter, or liver sauce, should the flavour of onion not be liked. If liver sauce is to be served, the liver must be boiled for ten minutes, minced very fine, and added to the butter sauce. An old rabbit will require quite an hour to boil it thoroughly. To Fricassee Babbits Brown. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 350. Two young rabbits ; jjcppcr ; salt; flour and butter ; a pint of gravy ; a bunch of sweet herbs ; half a pint of fresh mush- rooms if you have them ; three shallots ; a spoonful of ketchup ; a lemon. 'lake two young rabbits, cut them in small pieces, slit the head in two, season them with pepper and salt, dredge them with flour, and fry them a nice brown in fresh butter. Pour out the fat from the stewpan, and put in a pint of gravy, a bunch of sweet herbs, half a pint of fresh mushrooms, if you have them, and three shallots chopped fine, season with pepper and salt, cover them close, and let them stew for half an hour. '1‘hen skim the gravy clean, add a spoonful of ketchup, and the juice of half a lemon. Take out the herbs, and stir in a piece of butter rolled in flour, boil it up till thick and smooth, skim off the fat, and serve the rabbits garnished with lemon. An Economical Way to Dress a Babbit. Time, one hour. 351. A rabbit; half a pound of pickled pork ; an onion ; an ounce and a half of butter ; a little flour ; and some forcemeat balls. Divide and cut the rabbit and pork into slices, shred the onion fine, and fry the whole a nice brown. Then put them into a stewpan with just sufficient water to cover them. Season it highly with pepper and salt, and let it simmer for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. Then thicken the gravy with a piece of butter rolled in flour. Add a few forcemeat balls, and let it again simmer until the gravy is the consistency of thick cream. To Truss Woodcocks, Snipes, and Wheatears. 352. Pluck and wipe them very clean outside ; truss them with the legs close to the body, and the feet pressing upon the thighs ; skin the head and neck, and bring the beak round under the wing. Woodcocks and Snipes. Time, twenty to twenty-five minutes. 353. Some woodcocks, or snipes ; butter ; bread toasted ; two slices of bacon. After the birds are picked and trussed, put a thin layer of bacon over them, and tie it on, run a bird-spit through them, and tie it on to a common one. 'Poast and butter a slice of bread, and put it under them for the trail to drop on. Baste them continually with butter, and roast them, if large, for twenty-five minutes, if small, five minutes less. Froth them up, take up the toast, cut it in quarters, put it in the dish, and pour some gravy and butter over it. 'Fake up the woodcocks and put them on it, with the bills outwards. Serve with plain butter sauce in a tureen. Snipes arc dressed the same as woodcocks, only roast the large ones twenty minutes, small ones a quarter of an hour. Wheatears. Time, about a quarter of an hour. 3S4- A slice of toasted bread ; one lemon; half a pint of good brown gravy.