140 Pickles. Piccalilly. Time, ten weeks altogether. 699. One pound of ginger; one pound of garlic ; one pound of black pepper ; one pound of mustard seed ; three-quarters of an ounce of turmeric ; a little Cayenne pepper ; one quart of vinegar. Take a pound of ginger, let it lie in salt and water one night, then cut it in thin slices; take one pound of garlic, peel, divide, and salt it three days, then wash and dry it in the sun on a sieve ; take the pound of black pepper, the mustard seed, and the turmeric bruised very fine, and a little Cayenne pepper, put all these ingredients into a quart jar, with the vinegar boiled and poured over them, and when cold fill the jar three parts full, and let it stand for a fort- night. Everything you wish to pickle must be salted and dried in the sun for three days. The jar must be full of liquor, and after it is finished for use, stop it down for six weeks or two months before fit for use. The vinegar must be thrown over when the spices and garlic are hot. Walnuts Pickled Black. 700. Walnuts ; vinegar. For the Pickle.—To every two quarts of vinegar—half an ounce of mace ; half an ounce of cloves ; the same of black pepper, Jamaica pepper, ginger, and long pepper ; two ounces of salt. Gather the walnuts when the sun is on them and before the shell is hard, which may be known by running a pin into them. Put them into strong salt and water for nine days, stir them twice a day, and change the water every three days ; then place them on a hair sieve, and let them remain in the air until they turn black ; put them into stone jars and let them stand until cold, then boil the vinegar three times, let it become cold between each boiling, and pour it over the walnuts ; tie them down with a bladder and let them stand three months. Then make a pickle with the above proportions of spice, vinegar, and common salt, boil it ten minutes, pour it hot on the walnuts, and tie them over with paper and a bladder. To Pickle Mushrooms. 701. Some button mushrooms ; pepper and salt ; two or three cloves, and a very little mace ; some vinegar. Gather some mushroom buttons, wipe them very clean with a piece of flannel dipped in vinegar, then put them into an iron saucepan with pepper, salt, two or three cloves, and a very little mace pounded ; let them stew over the fire, and after they have produced a great deal of liquor, let them stand by tjie fire till they have con- sumed all that liquor up again ; but the saucepan must be shaken now and then to prevent their sticking to the bottom. Put them into large-nosed bottles, and pour cold vinegar that has been boiled over them, and then cork them up. They will keep for seven years. If the vinegar should dry away, add a little more. Should they be wanted to put over a broiled fowl or veal cutlets, take a few out of the bottle and pour some boiling water over them to take off the sourness, then put them immediately over the cutlets. To Pickle French Beans. 702. French beans ; vinegar ; a blade of mace; whole pepper and ginger; two ounces of each. Gather the beans when they are young, and put them into strong salt and water until they become yellow ; drain the salt and water from them, and wipe them quite dry. Then put them into a stone jar with a small piece of alum, boil the vinegar with the mace, ginger, and whole pepper, and pour it boiling on the beans every twenty- four hours, preventing the escape of steam. Continue this for a few days until they become green. Put them by in bottles for use. To Pickle Onions. 703. Onions ; vinegar ; ginger ; and whole pepper. Take some nice onions ; peel and throw them into a stewpan of boiling water, set them over the fire, and let them remain until quite clear, then take them out quickly, and lay them between two cloths to dry. Boil some vinegar with the ginger and whole pepper, and when cold, pour it over the onions in glass jars, and tie them closely over. To Pickle Gherkins. 704. Twm quarts of water; one pound of salt ; two quarts of white wine vine- gar ; a quarter of an ounce of cloves ; a quarter of an ounce of mace ; half an ounce of allspice ; half an ounce of mustard seed : half a stick of horseradish ; three bay leaves ; two ounces of ginger ; half a nutmeg ; and a little salt. Put the salt and w'ater into an earthen jar, and throw in the gherkins ; let them remain for two hours, and then drain them on a sieve, and when thoroughly dry put them into jars. Boil the vinegar with the cloves, mace, allspice, ginger, mustard seed,