6; Spiced Beef—Broiled and Steived Steak. tloth and press it with a weight. When fold, it may be cut in slices for dinner or supper. The gravy remaining will make a rich broth if a few vegetables be stewed Vi it. Spiced Beef. Time, according to weight. 218. The thin part of the ribs of beef; half an ounce of cloves ; half an ounce of mace ; half an ounce of black pepper ; half an ounce of Jamaica pepper ; and some chopped parsley. Take the thin part of a piece of beef, after the rib piece (called the flap) has been cut off, if any of the ends of the bones are left take them out. Rub it Well wth salt, and let it lay in pickle two days ; then tak§ the above quantities of spice and a little chopped parsley, and spread the whole equally over the beef; roll it up neatly and tie it very tight. Set it in a stevvpan over a moderate fire, and let it stew slowly till quite tender. Then press it well, and when cold it wll be fit to sen'e. The spices are to be laid on whole. Beef Liver for Gravy. Time, twenty-four hours. 219. The liver must be first hung up to drain; after that salt it well and leave it twenty-four hours in a dish. Then hang it up to drain, and when it has ceased drip- ping hang it in a dry place for use. It is e.\cellent for gravy to cutlets and all made dishes. Broiled Steak. Time, eight to ten minutes. 220. Rumpsteak; one ounce of butter ; one tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup ; pepper and salt. Rumpsteak is best for broiling and frying ; beefsteak for stewing. Take care that the butcher cuts the steak the right thickness—i.e., about three- quarters or half an inch. Divide it in halves. Place the gridiron over a clear fire, and rub the bars with suet to prevent the meat from adhering to them. Place the two steaks on it and broil them, turning them freqently with the steak-tongs, or if with a fork, carefully pricking it tlirough the fat. If the keak itself is pricked, the gr.ivy will run out, and it will harden. Have ready a hot dish on which you have placed a lump of butter the size of a large walnut, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a little salt and pepper. Lay the steaks (rubbing them lightly over with butter) on the dish, and serve as quickly as possible. Kumpsteak Fried. Time, twenty minutes. 221. Broiling is tlie best mode of cooking stealcs and chops ; if, however, you prefer a steak fried, do not cut it quite as thick as for broiling, and leave a little fat on it. Put some clarified dripping in tlie par? and let it boil ; then lay the steak in th( boiling fat and fry it, moving the pan about to prevent it from burning ; when one side is well done, turn it on the other with you; meat tongs—if you do not possess a pair; turn it with a fork, but take care not tQ stick the fork into the juicy part of the steak ; put it in the fat or in the edge of the meat. When the steak is done, lay it on a hot dish, with a little made gravy, ora lump of butter and a tablespoonful of ketchup. Season with pepper and salt. Tomato sauce is sometimes eaten with beefsteak. Steak Stewed in a Plain Way. Time, forty minutes altogether. 222. Half a pint of water ; one onion , a spoonful of walnut ketchup ; a little caper liquor ; a piece of butter rolled in flour, and some pepper and salt. Fry the stealcs in butter a good brown, then put in a stesvpan half a pint of water, one onion sliced, a tablespoonful of walnut ketchup, a little caper liquor, pepper and salt. Cover the pan close, and let them stew slowly. Thicken the gravy with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and serve them on a hot dish. Beefsteak and Oysters Stewed. Time, one hour and twenty minutqs. 223. A pound and a half o? beefsteak ; two ounces of butter ; half a pint of water. a dozen and a half of oysters ; five dessert- spoonfuls of port wine ; pepper and salt. Put into a ste\vpan a pound and a half of beefsteak, with two ounces of butter and a little water ; when the meat is a nice brown, pour fn half a pint of water, a little pepper and salt, and the liquor strained from the oysters. Set the pan over a mode- rate fire, and let the meat stow gently ; tlien add five dessertspoonfuls of port wine, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and the oysters. Stew it all together till the oysters are done, and serve it up very hot. Bubble and Squeak. Time, twenty minutes. 224. About one pound of slices of cold boiled beef ; one pound of chopped potato; one pound of chopped-up cabbage—both previously bviled ; pepper, s.nlt, and a little butter, F a