Cod—Salt-fish. 41 T« Pickle Salmon. Time, twelve or fourteen hours. 54. One ounce of whole black pepper; one ounce of whole allspice ; four bay- ’ leaves ; some salt ; with equal quantities of vinegar and the liquor in which the fish was boiled. Remove the bone from a boiled salmon, or part of one that has been boiled, and lay it in a dish ; boil a sufficient quantity of the liquor the fish was boiled in, with the same quantity of vinegar ; one ounce of black pepper ; one ounce of allspice ; four bay leaves ; and some salt. When cold pour it over the fish ; and in twelve or fourteen hours it will be fit for use. Cod’s Head and Shoulders. Time, half an hour or more. 55. Cod’s head and shoulders ; four ounces of salt to each gallon of water ; a little horseradish. Rub a little salt down the bone and the thick part of the fish, and tie a fold or two • of wide tape round it to prevent its brealc- i ing. Lay it in a fish-kettle with sufficient I cold water to cover it, with salt in the above proportion ; add three spoonfuls of vinegar ,ind a little horseradish. Let the water be brought just to the verge of boiling ; then liraw the fish-kettle to the side of the fire, ■ to simmer gently till the fish is done ; which > can be ascertained by trying it with a fish : slice, to see if the meat can be separated . easily from the bone ; skim it well aiid care- : fully. When done, drain it and slip it off t the fish strainer on a napkin neatly folded in a dish. Garnish with double parsley, ; .'emon, and the roe and liver of the col. If the cod be crimped, it will require a •shorter time to dress it. Picked Cod. Time, fifteen minutes. 56. About one pound and a half of dressed cod ; a little oyster and egg sauce ; two hard '■ boiled eggs ; and four parsnips, or some • mashed potatoes. Rick about a pound and a half of dressed ■ cod-fish into flakes, and put it in layers, with a little oyster and egg sauce alternately, in a ■stewpan. Make it thoroughly hot. When it is done, pile it in the centre of a dish, and ■serve with mashed potatoes in a wall round it, browned with a salamander ; or garnish it with .slices of hard-boiled eggs, and par- -snips cut into shapes. Salt Cod. Time, one hour. 57. Put the cod in water the night before it is wanted, and let it soak all night ; boil it: lay it in a dish ; and send it up hot, with egg sauce. If it be preferred, instead of the egg sauce, boil parsnips quite tender, mash them with butter, cream or milk, and spread them round the salt fish. If the cod be very dry, soak it for several hours, lay it out to dry in a cold place, and then soak it again for a number of hours. This double soaking is said to soften the driest fish. Salt Fish the Second Day. Time, twenty minutes. 58. The remains of salt fish previously dressed ; same quantity of mashed potatoes and parsnips ; a quarter of a pound of butter ; a little Cayenne ; one egg. Pick the remains of the fish into small flakes ; butter the bottom of a pie-dish, place it in alternate layers with the mashed parsnips and potatoes; sprinkle a little Cayenne in the dish. Bake for about twenty minutes in the oven ; turn it out on a dish ; garnish with a hard-boiled egg cut in slices, and pour over it a little melted butter, or in- stead of the sliced egg, use egg sauce. Cod Sounds Boiled. Time to boil, half an hour. 59. Cod sounds ; half a pint of milk. Soak the cod sounds in warm water half an hour, then scrape and clean them ; boil them in milk and water until tender ; when done, serve them on a napkin with egg sauce. The salt must not be soaked out of the sounds unless for fricassee. Broiled Cod Sounds. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 60. Lay the cod sounds for a few minutes in hot water, rub them with a little salt, clean them until they look white, and give them a gentle boil. Take them up, dry them, flour them, sprinkle salt .and pepper over them, and broil them. Serve them with melted butter and mitstard, or whatever sauce may be preferred. Baked Hake. Time, varying with size. 6r. Be very careful in cleaning your hake, then stuff it with veal stuffing, sew it up with packthread, egg and bread-crumb it over, set it in a b.aking dish, and put it into a hot oven. Let it bake till the fish parts easily from the bones. It is impossible to fix a time unless the size of the fish were Stated.