Mutton^ Veal, Pork, and Rabbit Pics. o6 layer with pepper, salt, and a very little Cayenne pepper, fill the dish sufficiently with slices of steak to raise the crust in the middle, half fill the dish with water or any gravy left from roast beef, and a spoonful of Worcestershire sauce ; put a border of paste round the wet edge of the pie-dish, moisten it and lay the crust over it. Cut the paste even with the edge of the pie-dish allround, ornament it with leaves of paste, and brush it over with the beaten yolk of an egg. Make a hole with a knife in the top, and bake it in a hot oven. Mutton Pie. Time, to bake, one hour and a half or two hours. 407. Two pounds of a loin of mutton ; pepper and salt ; a little forcemeat ; three mutton kidneys ; and gravy made from the bones ; paste. Strip off the meat from the bones of a loin of mutton without dividing it, and cut it into nice thin slices, and season them with pepper and salt ; put a pie-crust round the edge of a pie-dish, place in it a layer of mutton, then one of forcemeat, and again the slices of mutton with three or four halves of kidneys at equal distances; then pour in a gravy made from the bones seasoned and well cleared from fat. Moisten the edge with water. Cover with a paste half an inch thick, press it round with your thumbs, make a hole in the centre, and cut the edges close to the dish, ornament the top and border according to your taste, and bake it. Veal and Oyster Pie. Time, to bake, one hour and a half. 408. One pound and a half of veal cut- lets ; three-quarters of a pound of ham ; half a hundred of oysters ; a cupful of weak gravy or broth ; peel of half a lemon ; pepper and salt; puff paste. Cut a pound and a half of veal into small neat cutlets, and spread over each a thin layer of minced or pounded ham, season them with pepper, salt, and grated lemon peel, and roll each cutlet round. Line the edge of a pie-dish with a good paste, put a layer of rolled veal at the bot- tom, over the veal a layer of oysters, then of veal, and the oysters on the top ; make a gravy with a cupful of weak gravy or broth, the peel of half a lemon, the oyster liquor strained, and a seasoning of pepper and salt; cover a crust over the top, ornament it in any way approved, egg it over, and bake it in a moderate oven. When done, more gravy may be added by pouring it through the hole on the top through a funnel. and replacing an ornament on it after the gravy is added. Cheshire Pork Pie. Time, one hour and a half. 409. Two pounds of pork ; three ounces of butter ; si.v or eight pippins ; two ounces of sugar : pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; half a pint of white wine ; enough puff paste. Take the skin and fat from a loin of pork, and cut it into thin steaks ; season them with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; line a pie- dish with puff paste, put in a layer of pork, then of pippins pared and cored, and about two ounces of sugar ; then place in another layer of pork, and half a pint of white wine, and lay some butter on the top ; cover it over with puff paste, pass a knife through the top to leave an opening, cut the paste even with the dish, egg it once, and bake it. Chicken Pie. Time, to bake, one hour and a quarter. 410. Two small chickens ; some force- meat ; a sweetbread ; a few fresh mush- rooms ; a cupful of good gravy ; a little flour and butter; four eggs; some puff paste. Cover the bottom of a pie-dish with a puff paste, upon that round the side, lay a thin layer of forcemeat; cut two small chickens into pieces, season them highly with pepper and salt ; put some of tke pieces into the dish, then some sweetbread cut into pieces and well seasoned, a few fresh mushrooms, and the yolks of four or five hard-boiled eggs cut into four pieces, and strewed over the tops. Put in a little water, and cover the pie with a piece of puff paste, glaze it, ornament the edge, and bake it. When done, pour in through the hole in the top a cupful of good gravy, thickened with a little flour and butter. A Plain Eabbit Pie. Time, to bake, one hour and a quarter. 411. A large rabbit; three-quarters of a pound of rather fat bacon; a sprig of parsley ; pepper, salt, and one shallot; puff paste. Skin and wash a fine large rabbit; cut a into joints, and divide the head. Then place it in warm water to soak until tho- roughly clean ; drain it on a sieve, or wipe it with a clean cloth Season it with p>epper and salt, a sprig of parsley chopped fine, and one shallot if the flavour is lik^ (but it is equally good w'ithout it). Cut theTjacon into small pieces, dredge the rabbit with flour, and place it w'ith the bacon in a pie- dish, commencing with the inferior parts of the rabbit. Pour in a small cupful of water,