119 Baked and Boiled Puddings. of milk, or cream ; one pound of beef marrow ; four eggs ; a wineglass of brandy ; sugar and nutmeg to taste ; two ounces of citron. Grate sufficient stale bread to fill a pint basin, pour over it a pint of boiling milk, or cream. When cold, slice into it a pound of beef marrow very thin ; add four well- beaten eggs, sugar and nutmeg to taste, and a wineglass of brandy. Mix all well together, and boil it in a buttered mould two hours. Cut the citron into very thin shreds, and when the pudding is served, stick the citron over it. Nottingham Padding. Time, to bake, one hour. 560. Six large apples; two ounces of sugar ; one pint of batter for pudding. Peel the apples, and take out all the core ; fill them up with sugar, and place them in a pie-dish. Cover them with a light batter, and bake. Norfolk Dumplings. Time, to boil, a quarter of an hour. 561. Take about a pound of dough from a baking of light bread, and divide it into small pieces, mould them into dumplings, drop them into a saucepan of fast boiling water, and boil them quickly. Send them to table the instant they are dished up with wine sauce, or melted butter sweet- ened. Orange Pudding. Time, twenty minutes. • 562. A piece of butter the size of a walnut: five yolks of eggs ; rind and juice of two oranges ; two teaspoonfuls of pow- dered white sugar, or to your taste ; puff paste. Put a small piece of butter into a stew- pan ; break into it the yolks of five eggs, then grate the rind of the two oranges into it, and squeeze the juice in through a sieve to catch the seeds and pulp. Add as much lump sugar as will make it pleasant, the quantity depending on the .acidity of tlic oranges, and stir it over the fire till it becomes as thick as custard. Line a tart- dish with puff paste, put in the orange custard and bake it. Polka Pudding. 563. Four tablespoon fills of arrowroot ; one quart of new milk ; four eggs ; three ounces of butter or three large spoonfuls of rich cream ; three ounces of bitter almonds ; two tablespoonfuls of orange or rose water. Mix four spoonfuls of arrowroot in a pint of cold milk. When quite smooth add four eggs well beaten, and either three ounces of butter cut into small pieces or three large spoonfuls of rich cream. Pound three ounces of bitter almonds in two tablespoon- fuls of orange or rose water to prevent their oiling. Boil the remaining pint of milk, and when quite boiling add it to the mixture, stir it till quite smooth and thick, and put it into a mould. Ice it if con- venient, otherwise keep it in a very cold f place till wanted. Turn it out, and serve it with the polka pudding sauee. Christmas Pudding. Time, to boil, six hours. 564. One pound of raisins ; one pound of currants ; a quarter of a pound of sul- tanas ; one pound of suet ; three-quarters of a pound of bread-crambs ; one pint of milk ; ten eggs ; three-quarters of a pound of citron and orange peel mixed ; one small nutmeg ; one glass of brandy. Stone the raisins and divnde them, wash and dry the currants and sultanas, and cut the peel into slices. Mix all these with the bread-ci-umbs, flour, and suet chopped very fine, add the grated nutmeg, and then stir in the eggs well beaten, the brandy, and the milk. When the ingredients are well blended, put the pudding into a mould, tie a floured cloth over it, and boil it. When done, turn it out, and serve it with burning brandy over it, or arrowroot sauce. Plum Pudding. Time, three hours. 565. Six ounces of raisins ; six ounces of currants ; six ounces of bread-crumbs ; six ounces of suet ; half a nutmeg ; a little lemon peel; five eggs ; half a wineglass of brandy. Mix these ingredients together, and put the pudding into a mould, and boil it. A Good Plum Pudding without Eggs. Time, to boil, four hours. 566. One pound of raisins ; half a pound of suet; one pound df flour ; four ounces of bread-crumbs ; two tablespoonfuls of treacle ; one pint of milk ; nutmeg, and grated ginger. Chop the suet very fine, and mix it witl the flour. Add the bread-crumbs, ginger and nutmeg, and the raisins stoned, and mix it all well together with the milk and treacle. Put it into a basin, ot floured cloth, and boil it. Pease Pudding. Time, three hours and a half, 567. A pint and a half of split peas' quarter of a pound of butter; pepper, and salt; three yolks, and one whole egg.