85 Pigeons—Partridges—Pheasants. fne butter in the dripping-pan, and poured round them, adding a spoonful or two of gravy. Jugged Pigeons. Time, three hours. 333. Some pigeons ; two hard-boiled eggs; a sprig of parsley ; the peel of half a lemon ; the weight of the livers in beef suet ; the same of bread-crumbs ; pepper ; salt; and nutmeg ; one egg ; one ounce and a half of butter; one head of celery ; a glass of white wine ; a bunch of sweet herbs ; four cloves. Pick and draw four or six pigeons, wipe them very dry, boil the livers a minute or two, then mince them fine, and bruise them with a spoon, or beat them in a mortar ; mix them with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, a sprig of parsley, and the peel of h.alf a lemon all shred fine ; the weight of the livers in beef suet chopped as fine as pos- sible, the same weight of bread-crumbs, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg ; mix it well together with a well-beaten egg, and a little fresh butter. Stuff the pigeons and the crops with this forcemeat, sew up the vents, and dip the pigeons into warm water ; dredge over them some pepper and salt, and put them into a jar with the celery, sweet herbs, cloves, and beaten mace, with a glass of white wine. Cover the jar closely, and set it in a stewpan of boiling water for three hours, taking care the water does not get to the top of the jar. When done, strain the gravy into a stewpan, stir in a little butter rolled in flour, boil it up till it is thick, and pour it over the pigeons. Garnish with lemon. To Fricassee Pigeons Brown. Time, one hour. 334. Five or six pigeons ; half a blade of beaten mace ; pepper and salt ; one pint of gravy or broth ; a glass of port wine ; a bunch of sweet herbs ; peel of half a lemon; three shallots ; two ounces of butter; a spoonful of flour; juice of half a lemon ; and at/ew pickled mushrooms. Cut’ the pigeons into quarters, season them with half a blade of beaten mace, pepper, and salt. Fry them a light brown in butter, and l.ay them on a sieve to drain, then put them into a stewpan with a pint of gravy or broth, a glass of port wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, the peel of half a lemon, and three shallots chopped fine. Cover them closely and stew them half an hour, then stir in a piece of butter rolled in flour, season with pepper and salt, add a few ; pickled mushrooms, squeeze in the juice of 1 a lemon, and add a lew forcemeat balls I . boiled. Let all stew together for ten minutes, skim the gravy, put the fricassee on a hot dish, and garnish with lemon. To Truss a Partridge. 335. Partridges should hang a few days. Pluck, draw, and wipe the partridge in- side and out, cut off the head, leaving suffi- cient skin on the neck to skewer back, bring the legs close to the breast—between it and the side bones, and pass a skewer through the pinions and the thick part of the thighs. If the head is left on, it should be brought round and fixed on the point of the skewer, but it is generally removed from the bird. To Roast a Partridge. Time, twenty-five to thirty-five minutes. 336. Partridges ; butter ; gravy. When the partridges are plumply trussed, roast them before a clear fire, basting them very frequently, and frothing them up with a little flour and butter just before serving them. Pour a little gravy over the birds, and serve them with bread sauce and gravy in tureens. Broiled Partridges. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. 337. Partridges ; gravy ; butter ; pepper ; salt ; Cayenne. Thoroughly pick and draw the partridges, divide each through the back and breast, and wipe the insides. Season them highly with pepper, salt, and a very little Cayenne, and place them over a clear bright fire to broil. When done, rub a piece of fresh butter over them, and serve them up hot with brown gravy. To Truss a Pheasant. 338. After the pheasant is picked and drawn, wipe it inside with a damp cloth, and truss it in the same way as a partridge. If the head is left on, as it ought to be, bring it round under the wing, and fix it on the point of the skewer. To Roast a Pheasant. Time, from half an hour to one hour, according to size. 339. A pheasant ; butter ; flour ; brown gravy, and salt. After the pheasant is trussed, spit it, and roast it before a clear quick fire ; baste it frequently with butter, sprinkle over it a little salt, and dredge it lightly with flour to froth it nicely. When done (which will be in about half an hour, or longer if a large bird), serve it up with a litlie good brown gravy poured round the pheasant, and the remainder in a tureen, with another of broad saucQ.