82 Boiled and Hashed Turkey—To Truss a Goose. passing it through the opposite pinion and lliigh. On the otlicr side put a skewer in die small part of the leg, close on the out- side of the sidesman, and push it tlirough. Idlean the liver and gizzard, and tuck them between the pinions, and turn the point of the pinions on the back. Pass a string over the points of the skewers, and tie it securely at tlie back to keep the bird neat and firmly trussed. Cover the breast with a sheet of nicely buttered white paper. Place the bird on the spit or roasting jack, and set it at some distance from the fire, which should be a very good and bright one. Keep the heat well to the breast. Put a quarter of a pound of butter in the dripping-pan, and baste it frequently to ]irevent it from drying too much. Just before it is finished dressing, remove the paper, dredge it lightly with flour, and baste it with the butter, so as to brown and froUi it. Serve it with good brown gravy poured over it, and garnish with small fried sausages or forcemeat balls. Sauce : bread sauce. Boiled Turkey. Hen turkeys are best for boiling; they should hang quite four days before they are dressed. Time, large turkey, one hour and three- quarters ; smaller, one hour and a half. 315. To truss a boiled turkey. Cut the first joint of the legs off, pass the middle finger into the inside, raise the skin of the legs, and put them under the apron of the birff. Put a skewer into the joint of the wing and the middle joint of the leg, and run it through the body and the other leg and wing. The liver and gizzard must be put in the pinions. Then turn the small end of the pinion on the back, and tie a pack- thread over the ends of the legs to keep Jhem in their places. Having trussed the turkey for boiling, put it, wrapped in a clean cloth, into sufficient hot water to more than cover it. Bring it gradually to a boil, and carefully remove the scum as it rises, or it will spoil the appearance of the bird. Let it simmer very gently for an hour and a half, or for a longer time if of a large size. When done, serve it on a hot dish with a little celery sauce, oyster sauce, or with parsley and butter; put a small quan- tity of either over it, and send the other up in a tureen separately. Turkey Hashed. Time, one hour for the gravy. 316. Cbld roast turkey; pepper ; salt; half £i pint of gravy; a piece of butter the size of a walnut ; a little flour ; a spoonful of ketchup ; peel of half a lemon. Cut the breast of a cold turkey, or any of the white meat, into thin slices. Cut off the legs, score them, dredge them with pepper and salt, and broil them over a clear fire a nice brown. Put half a pint of gravy into a stewpan with a little piece of buttei rolled in flour, a spoonful of ketchup, some pepper and salt, and the peel of half a lemon shred very fine. Put in the white meat, and shake it over a clear fire till it is tho- roughly hot, place it in a dish with the broiled legs on the top, and sippets of fried bread round it. To Broil the Legs of a Turkey. Time, a quarter of an hour. 317. The legs of a turkey; a little pepper; salt ; Cayenne ; and a squeeze of a lemon. Take the legs from a cold roast turkey, make some incisions across them with a sharp knife, and season them with a little pepper, salt, and a pinch of Cayenne. Squeeze over them a little lemon juice, and place them on a gridiron well buttered, over a clear fire. Mdien done a nice brown, put them on a hot dish with a piece of butter on the top of each, and serve them up very hot. To Truss a Goose for Roasting. 318. Pick and stub it clean. Cut the feet off at the joint, and the pinion off at the first joint. Cut off the neck close to the back, lea\nng the skin of the neck long enough to turn over the back. Pull out the throat and tie a knot at the end. Loosen the liver, &c., at the breast end with the middle finger, and cut it open betw'een the vent and nimp. Draw out all the entrails e.vcept the soal or soul, wipe out the inside wdth a clean cloth. Beat the breastbone flat w'ith a rolling-pin, put a skewer into the wing, and draw the legs up close, put a skewer through the middle of the legs and through the body, do the same on the other side. Put anothci skewer in the small of the leg, tuck it close down to the sidesman, run it through, and do the same on the other side. Cut off the end of the vent, and make a hole large enough for the passage of the nimp, as by that means you will better secure the seasoning in its place. To Roast a Goose. Time, a large goose, two hours ; a smaller one, one hour and a half. 319. Sage and onion stuffing; some good gravy. After the goose is prepared for roasting,