Cookery for ike Sick. Port Wine Jelly, Time, fifteen or twenty minutes. 718. One pint of port wine ; one ounce of isinglass ; one ounce of sugar ; a quarter of a pint of water. Put the isinglass and sugar into a quarter of a pint of water. Set it over the fire till the isinglass is dissolved ; then add the wine. Strain it through a jelly bag or a clean piece of muslin into a jar or mould, and let it set. It is best to put it into a jar, to cover it till cold, and give a piece about the size of a walnut two or three times a day to the patient. This jelly may be made to drink hot thus :— Put a teaspoonful of melted isinglass to one wineglass of port wine, adding one clove and a lump of sugar. Make it hot Over an etna. A Strong Broth. Time, nearly four hours. 719. One pound of veal; one pound of beef ; one pound of the scrag end of a neck of mutton; a little salt; three quarts of water. Put the above quantities into three quarts of water, with a little salt, and a few whole peppers. Boil it until reduced to one quart. Calf s Feet. Time, four hours. 720. Two calf's feet; two pints of water ; one pint of new milk; a little lemon peel or mace. Put the ingredients into a jar, cover it down, and keep it in the oven for four hours. When cold, remove the fat. Flavour it with lemon peel or mace, as preferred. This is very strengthening if taken the first thing in the morning and the last at night. Isinglass. 721. Isinglass should be put into the invalid's tea, morning and evening, a good pinchful for a teacup. It should be intro- duced as much as possible into the food of the weak, as it is most strengthening. Ordinary Beef Tea. Time, three or four hours. 722. Two pounds of gravy beef; two pints and a half of water ; a little salt. Cut two pounds of gravy beef into slices, and put it into a jar with two pints and a half of water, and a pinch of salt. Cover it over. Set it in a warm oven for three or four hours. When done, strain it through a fine sieve, and set it in a cold place, warming a small portion when required. ■Very Strong Beef Tea. Time, four hours. 723. Cut two pounds of lean beef into small square dice, put it into a jar or a basin without water, cover it over, stand it in the oven for three or four hours, till every drop of gravy is out of the meat. Then mix this rieh stock with boiling water to the strength required. NonrisMng Sonp for Invalids. Time, two hours. 724. Two pounds of lean veal or beef ; a quarter of a pound of pearl barley ; a little fresh celery, or celery seed ; a little salt. Boil two pounds of lean veal, or beef, with a quarter of a pound of pearl barley in a quart of water very slowly, until it becomes the consistency of good cream ; flavour it with a little fresh celery, or celery seed, and salt. Strain it when done through a fine hair sieve, and serve. This soup will only keep until the next day, therefore not more than the quantity required must be made. Gloucester Jelly. Time, two hours. 725. One ounce of powdered rice; one ounce of sago ; one ounce of pearl barley; one ounce of isinglass ; one ounce of eringo root; one ounce of hartshorn shavings. Simmer these ingredients in three pints oi water till reduced to one pint; strain it. Pieces may be cut from this jelly and taken in tea or broth, or in a cup of new milk, as preferred, every morning. Gruel of Patent Groats. Time, ten minutes. 726. Two dessertspoonfuls of patent groats : one pint of water ; a wineglass of brandy or any other spirit, or of white wine. Mix two dessertspoonfuls of patent groats in a basin with only sufficient water to work it into a cream ; then pour over it a pint of boiling water, stirring it all the time ; stir it over the fire until sufficiently thick. 'VSnien done, sweeten it to taste, and add either a glass of_ white wine, brandy, or any other spirit, with a little grated ginger or nutmeg. Gruel. Time, a quarter of an hour. 727. Two tablespoonfuls of oatmeal; half a blade of mace ; a piece of lemon peel; three-quarters of a pint of water or milk ; a little sugar. Mix two spoonfuls of oatmeal very smooth in a little water, and put it gradually to three-quarters of a pint ; add a little lemon pircl, and half a blade of mace ; set it over