113 Baked and Boiled Puddings. warmed, sweeten it to your taste, and beat all well together. Lay a puff paste round a dish, pour in the mi.xture, and bake it a light brown. Amber Pudding. Time, three hours to boil. 515. Three eggs ; their weight in sugar, butter and flour ; juice of one or two lemons ; peel of one grated. Work the butter with your hand till like cream, then add the flour, sugar, and beaten eggs by degrees, then the juice of one or two lemons, with the peel grated. Butter a mould thickly, and when the ingredients are well mixed, pour it in, taking care that the mould is quite full. Butter a piece of white paper, cover it over the top, tie it well over with a cloth, and put it into a saucepan of fast boiling water. The Alexandra Pudding. Time, half an hour. 516. Three eggs ; three ounces of sugar ; three ounces of bread-crumbs ; half a lemon ; a teacupful of milk ; a little jam ; puff paste. Line a pie-dish with puff paste, and cover the bottom with apricot or strawberry jam, mix the bread-crumbs, pounded sugar, juice of the lemon, and the peel grated with the milk and the eggs well beaten ; beat all thoroughly together, pour it into the dish over the jam, and bake it. Anna’s Pudding. Time, one hour and a half to steam. 517. A quarter of a pound of suet; a quarter of a pound of bread-cnimbs; one tablespoonful of ground rice ; three ounces of loaf sugar; two eggs ; peel of a lemon. Chop the suet very fine, and add to it the stale bread-crumbs, the ground rice, and the peel of the lemon grated. Mix it well together with the yolks of two eggs well beaten. Butter a basin, and place the in- gredients in it. Steam it. When served, pour over it a little melted butter and sugar, with half a glass of white wine, or serve the sauce in a tureen. Baked Arrowroot Pudding, Time, one hour to one hour and a quarter. 518. Three dessertspoonfuls of arrowroot ; a pint and a half of new m-ilk ; peel of half a lemon; a piece of butter the size of a walnut; moist or loaf sugar to taste ; three eggs, and a little nutmeg ; puff paste. Mix into a rather thick smooth batter three spoonfuls of arrowroot with a little cold milk. Put the remainder of the milk into a clean saucepan with the peel of half a lemon, and sugar to taste. When it boils, strain it gradually into the batter, stirring it all the time, adding a piece of butter the size of a walnut. When nearly cold, stir in three well-beaten eggs, and pour the whole into a pie-dish, round wdiich has been placed a border of puff paste. Grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake it in a moderate oven. If boiled, it will take the same time. Bread Pudding. Time, one hour or more. 519. A pint of bread-crumbs ; some new milk ; peel of a lemon ; a little nutmeg ; a piece of cinnamon ; sugar to your taste ; four eggs. Take a pint of bread-crumbs ; put theni into a stewpan with as much milk as will cover them ; add the peel of a lemon grated, and a little nutmeg and cinnamon. Boil it for ten minutes, and then sweeten it tb your taste. Take out the cinnamon, and stir in the four well-beaten eggs. Beat all well together, and bake it for one hout. If boiled, it will require rather more than an hour. Bread and Butter Pudding. Time, to bake, one hour. 520. Slices of bread and butter; eigftv teaspoonfuls of white sugar ; a laurel leaf; a pint and a half of mik ; three eggs. Put into a deep dish that will hold a quart very thin slices of bread and butter, only half filling it. Stir into a pint and a half of cold milk eight teaspoonfuls of wliite pounded sugar, a laurel leaf, and three eggs well beaten. When all are well mixed, pour it into the dish over the bread and butter, and bake it in a quick oven. An Economical Bread Pudding. Time, to bake, one hour and a half. 521. Any pieces of bread, crumb an( crust ; half a pound of raisins or currants peel of a small lemon grated ; a little nut meg ; two eggs ; sufficient hot water 01 milk to soak the bread. Take any pieces of bread that may be left from making stuffing or from other dishes, cut it into very small pieces, and pour over it sufficient boiling water or milk to soak it; then beat it smooth with a fork, and stir into it three ounces of fine moist sugar, a little nutmeg, the peel of a lemon grated, and half a pound of raisins or cur- rants. Mix all well together with two or three beaten eggs, and bake it in a buttered pie-dish. Bakewell Pudding. 522. Some puff paste ; raspberry or any other preserve; yolks of eight and whit'-i' l