Pancakes and Fritters. taste, and mix them with a pint of cold milk ; stir the tapioca into it, and pour the whole into a buttered pie-dish. Grate the peel of a lemon on the top, and bake it in a moderate oven. Welsh Pudding. 592. Half a pound of butler; yolks of eight, ^v•hites of four eggs ; six ounces of sugar ; peel of one lemon ; puff paste. Melt half a pound of butter gently, beat with it the yolks of eight, and the whites of four eggs, six ounces of loaf sugar, and the peel of a grated lemon. Put a puff paste into a dish for turning out, pour in the above, and nicely balce it. Sir Watkin’s Pudding. Time, eight hours ; two hours for a small one. 593. One pound of marrow; one pound of sugar ; one pound of bread-crumbs ; four lemons ; and eight eggs. Mix the marrow ^vith the sugar, bread- crumbs, peel of the lemons grated, and the juice strained. Beat the yolks and the whites of the eggs separately, and add them to the other ingredients, and boil it in a basin or mould for eight hours. A small one can be made with a quarter of the quantity and boiled for two hours. Yeast Dumplings. Time, twenty minutes. 594. Some dough ; butter ; and sugar. Take some dough from the baker’s, and set it to rise before tlie fire, covered closely over, for ten or twelve minutes. Divide it into as many pieces as you may require, roll them into balls, and drop them into a large saucepan of boiling water. Twenty mi- nutes will be long enough to boil them. They must be sent to table the moment they are done, or they will become heavy, and when eaten they should be divided with forks, and not with a knife. If made at home, the dough may be mixed with milk instead of water. They may be served with sweet sauce or eaten with gravy. 1 2J Or— Time, half an hour. 593. One pound and a half of flour ; one tablespoonful of baker's yeast; one teaspoon- ful of salt ; one of warm milk. Make a dough of a pound and a half of flour, the spoonfulof yeast, the salt, and the spoonful of warm milk. Set it in a warm place to rise for hvo hours. When light, flour your hands, knead it down, and make it into balls the size of a small teacup Have a large saucepan of boiling water, take off any scum that may have, risen in boiling, drop' the dumplings in, and boil them fast for half an hour, take them up with a skimmer, and serve with boiled meat or with a sweet sauce of butter and sugar. They must be served as quickly as possible after they are taken out of the water. Hard Dumplings. Time, half an hour. 596. Half a pound of flour ; a little milk or water ; a pinch of salt. Mix half a pound of flour into a stiff paste with a little milk or water and a pinch of salt. Roll it into balls, and throw them into boiling water ; or make it into a roll, boil it in a cloth, and when done, cut it in slices with butter between. Yorkshire Pudding. Time, one hour and a half. 597. One pint and a half of milk ; seven tablcspoonfuls of flour ; three eggs ; and a little salt. Put the flour into a basin with a little salt and sufficient milk to make it into a stiff, smooth batter, add the remainder of tlie milk and the eggs well beaten. Beat all well together, and pour it into a shallow tin which has been previously rubbed with but- ter. Bake it for an hour, then place it under the meat for half an hour to catch a little of the gravy that flows from it ; cut the pud- ding into small square pieces, and serve them on a hot folded napkin with hot roast beef. PANCAKES AND FRITTERS. Pancakes should be eaten hot. They should be light enough to toss over in the pan. Sno'M will serve instead of eggs for pancakes. It should be taken when just fallen, and quite clean. Two tablespoonfuls of snow will supply the place of one egg. Time to fry a pancake, five minutes. When- ever the time differs on account of the in- gredients it will be specified. Common Pancakes. Time, five minutes. _ S98. Three eggs ; one pint of milk ; suffi- cient flour to make a batter; a pinch of salt; and a little nutmeg. Beat three eggs, and stir them into a pint of milk ; add a pinch of salt, and sufficient flour to make it into a thick, smootli batter;