58 Sauces and Gravies. slices of bread in your tureen, and pour the soup over. The Young Fisherman’s Soup. Time, two hours. 158. One pound (each) of any fresh-water fish, of different kinds ; one tomato ; two carrots ; one leek ; two onions ; a bunch of sweet herbs ; one teaspoonful of Chili vine- gar ; one teaspoonful of soy ; enough water to cover the fish ; two turnips ; one head of celery ; pepper and salt to taste. Take a pound (each) of all the fish you may have caught in your day's fishing, such as carp, dace, roach, perch, pike, and tench, wash them in salt and water ; then put them in a stewpan with a tomato, two carrots, one leek, two fried onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; put as much water to them as will cover them, and let them stew till the whole is reduced to a pulp, which will be in about three-quarters of an hour. Strain off the liquor, and let it boil for another hour. Have ready two turnips and a head of celery, cut into small pieces and previously boiled ; ■add them to the fish soup, with the Chili vinegar and soy, pepper and salt to taste. SAUCES AND GRAVIES. The thickest saucepans should be used for this operation, and only wooden spoons should be used for stirring. Remember, also, that your saucepan must be exquisitely clean and fresh if you would have your sauce a success, especially when it is melted butter. Let your fire be clear and not too fierce. RECEIPT FOR MELTING BUTTER. The Author’s Way. Time, two or three minutes. 159. Two ounces of butter ; a little flour; and about two tablespoonfuls of water. Put about two ounces or two ounces and a half of butter into a very clean saucepan, with two tablespoonfuls of water, dredge in a little flour, and shake it over a clear fire, one way, until it boils. Then pour it into your tureen, and serve as directed. Common Egg Sauce. Time, twenty minutes. 160. Two eggs; a quarter of a pint of melted butter. Boil the eggs for twenty minutes, then take them out of the egg saucepan and put them in cold water to get cool, shell them, and cut them into very small dice, put the I minced eggs into a very hot sauce tureen, and pour over them a quarter of a pint ol boiling melted butter. Stir the sauce round to mi.x the eggs with it. Fennel Sauce. Time, ten minutes. 161. Half a pint of melted butter ; a small bunch of fennel leaves ; a little salt. Strip the leaves of the fennel from their stems, wash it very carefully, and boil it quickly (with a little salt in the water) till it is quite tender ; squeeze it till all the watei is expressed from it; mince it very fine, and mix it with hot melted butter. Parsley Sauce. Time, six or seven minutes. 162. Half a pint of melted butter ; a bunch of parsley (about a small handful). Wash the parsley thoroughly, boil it for six or seven minutes till tender, then press the water well out of it ; chop it very fine ; make half or a quarter of a pint of melted butter as required (the less butter the less parsley, of course), mix it gradually with the hot melted butter. Imitation Parsley Sauce. When parsley is not to be procured. Time, ten minutes. 163. Half a pint of melted butter; one small teaspoonful of parsley seed ; a little salt. Tie a little parsley seed up in a clean piece of muslin, and boil it ten minutes in water ; use the water it has been boiled in, and which it will strongly flavour, for melting your butter instead of the pure water. You had better taste the parsley water before using it, to try whether the flavour is strong enough or too strong. When the butter is made thus, chop a little boiled spinach very fine, and add it to the butter to look like parsley. We may add here that the seeds of celery used in the like manner will give a perfect flavour of that vegetable to any gravy, soup, sauce, &'c., and may be used when the root cannot be procured. An Excellent Lobster Sauce. Time, ten minutes. 164. One hen lobster with coral; two- thirds of its weight of good cream ; one< third of fresh butter. Cut the lobster into small pieces, mix it with the coral, and put it into half a pint o\ good cream, and a quarter of a pint o( melted butter.