i09 To Make Tarts. Paste for Custards. 489. Six ounces of butter ; half a pound of flour; yolks of two eggs ; three table- spoonfuls of cream. Rub six ounces of butter into half a pound of flour. Mix it well together with two beaten eggs and three tablespoonfuls of cream. Let it stand a quarter of an hour ; then work it up, and roll it out very thin for use. To Ice or Glaze Pastry, or Sweet Dishes. 490. \Vhites of two eggs to three ounces of loaf sugar. To ice pastry, or any sweet dishes, break the whites of some new-laid eggs into a large soup plate, and beat them with the blade of a knife to a firm froth. When the pastry is nearly done, take it from the oven, brush it well over with the beaten egg, and sift the pounded sugar over it in the above pro- portion. Put it again into the oven to dry or set, taking care it is not discoloured. Or beat the yolks of eggs and a little warm butter well together, brush the pastry over with it when nearly baked, sift pounded sugar thickly over it, and put it into the oven to dry. For raised, or meat pies, theyo/ks of eggs must be used. Ked Currant and Raspberry Tart, rime, to bake, three-quarters of an hour. 491. A pint and a half of picked red cur- rants ; three-quarters of a pint of raspber- ries ; a quarter of a pound of moist sugar ; half a pound of puff paste. Pick the currants and raspberries from their stalks, mix them together in a pie-dish with the moist sugar. Wet the edge of the dish, place a band of puff paste round it ; wet that also. Cover the top with puff paste, pressing it round the edge with your thumbs. Cut the overhanging edge ‘ off evenly. Then scallop the edge by first chopping it in lines all round, and then giv- ing them a litt/ twist at regular intervals with the knife. Take the edges you have cut off, flour them, roll them out, and cut them into leaves to ornament the top. Egg it over and bake it. When done, dredge it with white sugar, and salamander it. Cherry Tart. Time, to bake, thirty-five to forty minutes. 492. About one pound and a half of cherries ; half a pound of short crust; moist sugar to taste. Pick the stalks from the cherries, put a tiny cup upside down in the middle of a deep pie-dish, fill round it with the fruit, and add moist sugar to taste. Lay some short crust round the edge of the dish, put on the cover as directed before, ornament the edges, and bake it in a quick oven. When ready to serve, sift some loaf sugar over the top. Gooseberry Tart. Time, to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. 493. One quart of gooseberries ; rather more tlian half a pound of short crust ; five or six ounces of moist sugar. Cut off the tops and tails from a quart of gooseberries, put them into a deep pie-dish with five or six ounces of good moist sugar, line the edge of the dish with short crust, put on the cover, ornament the edges and top in the usual manner, and bake in a brisk oven. Serve with boiled custard or a jug of good cream. Cranberry Tart. Time, to bake, three-quarters of an hour 01 one hour. 494. One quart of cranberries ; one pint of water; one pound of moist sugar ; puff paste. Pick a quart of cranberries free from all imperfections, put a pint of water to them, and put them into a stewpan, add a pound of fine brown sugar to them, and set them over the fire to stew gently until they aiu soft, then mash them with a silver spoon, and turn them into a pie-dish to become cold. Put a puff past round the edge of the dish, and cover it over with a crust; or make an open tart in a flat dish with paste all over the bottom of it and round the edge ; put in the cranberries ; lay cross bars of paste over the top, and bake. Rhubarb Tart. Time, to bake, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. 495. Some stalks of rhubarb ; one large teacupful of sugar ; some puff paste. Cut the large stalks from the leaves, strip off the outside skin, and cut the sticks into pieces half an inch long. Line a pie-dish with paste rolled rather thicker than a crown- piece, put in a layer of rhubarb, strew the sugar over it, then fill it up witli the other pieces of stalks, cover it with a rich puff paste, cut a slit in the centre, trim off the edge with a knife, and bake it in a quick oven. Glaze the top or strew sugar over it. Plain Apple Tart. Time, to bake, one hour, or, if small, half an hour. 496. Apples ; a teacupful of sugar ; peel of half a lemon or three or four cloves ; hall a pound of puff paste. Rub a pie-disli over with butter, line it