Prazvns—Cockles—Mtissels—Herrings. 48 them out as you would oysters ; cover them with beaten egg and bread-crumbs, well seasoned with pepper, salt, and minced parsley, and fry them nicely. Put them to keep hot, dredge flour into the frying-pan to take up the grease, mix in water enough for gravy, season with pepper and salt, thicken it if required, make the scallops hot in it, and serve them with the gravy together. Lemon pickle may be added. They may also be floured and fried ; and then stewed. Tj Boil and Serve Prawns. Time, ten minutes. 108. Prawns ; strong salt and water; one large China orange ; sprigs of double parsley. Boil your prawns for ten minutes in a stewpan of boiling salt and water, and then drain them dry. Put a large China orange into the centre of a dish, and stick the prawns thickly over it, commencing at the bottom, with their backs upwards. At the top place three with the backs down, and a sprig of double parsley arranged between them and at the edge of your dish. To Boil Cockles and Periwinkles. 109. Put them in a stewpan, with only a small quantity of water, to prevent the pan from burning ; when the shells open, the fish will be done. To Pickle Cockles. no. Equal quantities of vinegar ; with Aie liquor from the cockles ; one blade of mace ; and some salt. Wash your cockles clean, and put them in a stewpan, cover them close; set them over the fire, and shake them till the shells open, then take them out ; let the liquor settle till it is clear ; then add an equal quantity of wine and vinegar, a little salt, and a blade of mace. Boil this pickle and pour it over your cockles ; put them in jars or bottles, and cover them close. To Stew Mussels. Time, ten minutes. III. One pint of mussels ; half a pint of liquor ; one blade of mace; a small piece of butter rolled in flour. Clean the,'Shells thoroughly with repeated washings, and cook them until they open, as mentioned above. Pick them out of the shells, and as you do so save the liquor that runs from them, and pick out from each one the little hairy appendage to be found at the root of the little member shaped like a tongue. To the mussels, thus prepared, put half a pint of the liquor saved, and if there is not enough of it, eke out the quantity with a little of the liquor in which they were boiled, poured off clear. Put in a blade of mace, thicken it w ith a piece of butter rolled in flour, let them stew gently for a few minutes, and serve them on toast. To Boil Herrings. Time, twenty minutes. In season from May to October. 112. Some scraped horseradish ; vinegar, and salt. Clean and wash the fish ; dry them in .1 cloth, and rub over them a little vinegar and salt. Skewer them with their tails in their mouths, lay them on a strainer in a stewpan, and when the water boils put them in, and let them continue simmering slowly for about twenty minutes. When they are done, drain and place them in the dish with the heads turned into the centre, garnish with scraped horseradish, and serve with parsley and butter sauce. To Bake Herrings. Time, one hour. 113. Two herrings ; a large spoonful of pepper ; twelve cloves ; a teaspoonful of salt ; two bay-leaves, and some vinegar. Clean and wash the herrings, lay them on a dish or board, and rub well over and into them a spoonful of pepper, one of salt, and twelve cloves pounded. Lay them in an earthen pan, cover them with vinegar, add two or three bay-leaves, and tie them over with a thick paper. Put them into a moderate oven, and bake them for an hour. To be eaten cold. To Dress Eed Herrings, or “Yarmouth Bloaters.” 114. Choose those that are large and moist, split them open without any soaking, and either place them on a gridiron over a slow cinder fire, or hang them on the hooks of a cheese-toaster to brown. If they have hard roes, open them and put pieces of butter into the fish, closing them up to melt the butter. Fried Herrings. Time, six or eight minutes. 115. Clean and scale the fish, and dry them thoroughly in a cloth. When they arc quite dry, fry them to a bright colour. The herring, being so rich a fish, should be fried with less butter than fish of most kinds, and well drained, and dried after\vards. A nice sauce to eat with herrings is sugar, mustard, and a little salt and vinegar. Some serve melted butter, but herrings are too rich to eat with a rich sauce. Crisp parsley may be used as a garnish. Fry sprats in