6o Gravies and Sauces. (Stewpan with two ounces and a half of flutter, a few sweet herbs and lialf an onion. Sliakc these over tlie fire for six or eight minutes, and tlien add about a pint of water. Let it simmer for an hour and three- quarters, skimming it carefully ; strain the gravy, and set it by for use. This gravy can be made from one beef kidney instead of four sheep’s kidneys. Gravy for Hashes, &c. rime, two hours and a quarter. 174. The bones and cuttings from any cooked joint ; a little salt and pepper ; twelve whole allspice ; a bunch of sweet herbs ; a piece of butter ; one small onion ; half a head of celery; water; and two tablespoonfuls of ketchup. Break the bones, and put them into a stewpan, with any spare cuttings of meat pou may have ; add a little pepper, salt, and twelve allspice, half a head of celery, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and simmer it for about two hours, with sufficient water to cover it. Cut a small onion into slices, fry it in a piece of butter, and boil it up with the gravy for fifteen or twenty minutes. Strain it into another stewpan, with two tablespoonfuls of walnut ketchup, and a piece of butter rolled in flour, boil it up, and it will be ready for your meat. Gravy for Minced Veal. Time, one hour and a quarter. 175. Any cold dressed veal, and bones ; a pint and a half of w'ater ; peel of half a lemon and the juice ; a little mace ; salt ; one small onion ; and a tablespoonful of ketchup. Put into a stewpan the bones of some dressed veal, and any cuttings of the veal you have ; pour in a pint and a half of water, add the peel of half a lemon cut very thin, a little mace pounded, some nutmeg, salt, and one onion. Let it all simmer slowly for an hour and a quarter, or until it is a good gravy. Strain it through a sieve ; then stir in a spoonful of ketchup, the juice of half a lemon, and thicken it with a piece of butter and a little flour. Boil it up, and it will be fit for use. Jugged Gravy. Time, eight hours. 176. Two pounds of shin of beef ; three , slices of lean ham ; two shallots ; half a head of celery; one blade of mace; a bunch of sweet herbs ; one carrot; a little salt and whole pepper; one quart of water; one tablespoonful of ketchup ; one of soy. Cut two pounds of shin of beef, and three slices of ham or bacon, into small pieces ; I put them into a stone jar, with alternate I layers of shallot, celery, and carrot, cut into slices ; seasoning of salt, pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs, chopped up. Pour ■ in a quart of water, tie the jar closely down to prevent the steam from escaping, and set it in a moderate oven for eight hours ; then strain the gra\y. Stir in a table- spoonful of ketchup, and one of soy, or a glass of port wine, and when cold take off the fat carefully from the top. Gravy for a Goose or Ducks. Time, three hours. 177. One set of giblets ; half a pound of beef ; three sage leaves ; one onion ; some whole pepper and salt ; a glass of port wine ; three pints of water. Put one set of giblets and half a pound of lean beef into a stewpan, with three sage leaves, one onion, some whole pepper, salt, and three pints of water, and boil it for three hours ; then add a glass of port wine, with a .spoonful of flour mixed smooth to thicken it, and boil it again for two or three minutes. Bread Sauce for Rcast Turkey, or Game. Time, one hour and a half. 178. One pint of milk ; breakfastcupful of stale bread ; one onion ; a little mace, Cayenne, and salt; one ounce of butter. Peel and slice an onion, and simmer it in a pint of new milk until tender, break the bread into pieces and put it into a small stewpan. Strain the hot milk over it, cover it close, and let it soak for an hour. Then beat it up smooth with a fork, add the pounded mace, Cayenne, salt, and an ounce of butter ; boil it up, and ser%'e it in a tureen. The onion must be talven out before the milk is poured over the bread. Apple Sauce. Time, twenty minutes. 179. Eight apples; a small piece of butter, and sugar. Pare, core, and cut into slices eight good boiling apples ; put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to moisten and prevent them from burning, boil them until suffi- ciently tender to pulp. Then beat them up smoothly with a piece of butter, and put sugar to your taste. Chestnut Sauce for Turkey or Fowls. Time, one hour and thirty-five minutes. 180. Half a pint of veal stock ; half a pound of chestnuts ; peel of half a lemo»f