IIT Pastry and Mince Meat. and then beat them to a paste with twice their weight in pounded loaf sugar ; then add the pulp and the juice of the oranges with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, beat all these ingredients well together, line some patty-pans with rich puff paste, lay the orange mixture in them, and bake them. Lemon Puffs. Time, six or eight minutes to bake. ( 504. One pound and a quarter of loaf sugar ; peel of two lemons ; w hites of three eggs. Beat and sift a pound and a quarter of loaf sugar, and mix with it the peel of two lemons grated, whisk the whites of three eggs to a firm froth, add it gradually to the sugar and lemon, and beat it all together for one hour. Make it up into any shape you please, place the puffs on oiled paper on a tin, put them in a moderate oven, and bake. Jersey Wonders. 505. A quarter of a pound of sugar ; ten ounces of butter; one pound of flour; three large or four small eggs ; a little nutmeg. Work the sugar and butter together till quite soft, throw in the eggs tliat have been previously well beaten, and then add the flour and a little nutmeg, knead twenty minutes and let it rise ; then roll it between your hands into round balls the size of a small potato, but do not add any more flour ; flour your pasteboard lightly and roll out each ball into a thin eval the size of the hand, cut with a knife three slits like bars in the centre of the oval, cross the two centre ones with your fingers, and draw up the two sides between, put your finger Ihrough and drop into it boiling lard, which must be ready in a small stewpan. Turn them as they rise, and when a nice brown, take them up with a fork, and lay them on a (ray with paper underneath them. The lard must be boiling before putting them in ; a stewpan wide enough to put three in at once answers best, and when the lard would froth too much add a little fresh before putting in any more. When all ars done, save the lard in a basin, as it wil', answer, by adding a little more fresh, to use again. MINCE MEAT. Apple Mince Meat, 506. One pound of currants ; one pound of peeled and chopped apples ; one pound of suet chopped fine ; one pound of moist sugar ; quarter of a pound of raisins stoned and cut in two ; the juice of four oranges and two lemons, with the chopped peel of one ; add of ground mace and allspice each a spoonful, and a wineglass of brandy. Mix all well together and keep it closely covered in a cool place. Egg Miuee Meat. 507. Six hard-boiled eggs shred very fine ; double the quantity of beef-suet chopped very small ; one pound of currants washed and dried ; the peel of one large, or two small lemons minced up ; six table- spoonfuls of sweet wine; a little mace, nutmeg, and salt, with sugar to your taste ; add a quarter of a pound of candied orange and citron cut into thin slices. Mix all well together, and press it into a jar for use. Lemon Mince Meat. 508. One large lemon; three large apples ; four ounces of beef-suet; half a pound of currants ; four ounces of white sugar ; one ounce of candied orange and citron. Chop up the apples and beef-suet; mix them with the currants and sugar; then squeeze tlie juice from a large lemon into a cup. Boil the lemon thus squeezed till lender enough to beat to a mash ; add it to the mince meat. Pour over it the juice of the lemon, and add the citron chopped fine. BAKED AND BOILED PUDDINGS. For boiled puddings you will require either a mould, a basin, or a pudding- cloth : the former should have a close- fitting cover, and be rubbed over the inside with butter before putting the pudding in ft, that it may not stick to the side; the cloth should be dipped in boiling water, and then well floured on the inside. A pudding-cloth mu.st be kept very clean, and in a dry place. Bread-puddings should be tied very loosely, as they swell very much in boiling. The water must be boiling when the pudding is put in, and continue to boil until it is done. If a pudding is boiled in a cloth it must bo moved frequently whilst boiling, otherwise it will stick to the saucepan. Tliere must always be enough water to cover the pudding if it is boiled in a cloth ;