29 Carving Pheasant.—Clear the leg by inserting tlie edge of the knife between it and the body, then take off the wings, b to A, but. do not remove mueh of the breast with them, you are thus enabled to obtain some nice slices ; the pheasant is then carved as a fowl. The breast is first in estimation, then the wings, and after these the merrythought; lovers of game prefer a leg. Partridge.—Separate the legs, and then divide the bird into three parts, leaving each leg and wing together. The breast is then divided from the back, and helped whole, the latter being helped with any of the other parts. When the party consists of gentlemen only, the bird is divided in halves by cutting lengthwise right through from the centre. Quails, Landrail,Wheatears, Larks, and all small birds are served whole. Wild Ducks and Widgeon.—The breast of these fowls being the best portion, is can-ed in slices, which are removed, and a glass of old port wine is poured in ; the half of a lemon seasoned with Cayenne and salt should then be squeezed in, the slices relaid in their places, and then served, the joints being removed the same as in other fowls. Pigeon (breast). Pigeon. — Like woodcock, these birds are cut in halves, through the breast and back, and the half is sent to the person helped. Partridge. Pigeon (back). FISH. Fish should never be touched with a steel knife, and fork, are used for carving it. It requires more care than knowledge to help fish—the prin- cipal thing is to avoid breaking the flakes. In carving a piece of salmon as here engraved, cut thin slices, as from A to B, and help with it pieces of the belly in the direction marked from c to D; the best flavoured is the upper or thick part. Fish slices, or a silver fish knife Cut of Salmon. Turbot.—Cut flat pieces as marked in the engraving without moving the bone; the fin, which is esteemed a delicacy, is always served with it. All flat-fish, such as plaice, brill, Johndory, &c., are carved in the same manner; soles are cut either into halves, or, if very large, are divided into three, cutting them across right through. Flounders are served whole. Cod’s Head and Shoulders.—Carry the knife from A to B, and then along the line to c, help slices accompanied by some of the sound, which is to be found lining the back, and which you may obtain by passing the knife under the backbone at C ; serve also a piece of liver. Cod’s Head.