go Made Dishes. into a stewpan, and cover them with water ; skim it clean as the scum rises, and when it boils put in a little salt, the pepper, Cay- enne, two carrots, a bunch of parsley, and two onions stuck with eight or ten cloves. Let the pan boil gently until the tails are tender, wliich will take about from two and a half to three hours ; then strain the gravy from the meat, thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and serve it up with the tails in a tureen, or the tails may be placed on a hot dish, and the gravy poured over them. Rechauffe of Salt Beef. 372. A bottle of piccalilli ; slices of cold beef ; a little flour ; a gill of water ; pota- toes ; a little cream, or butter. Cut large and thin slices of cold silver side of beef. Pour out on a dish some of the sauce or vinegar of the piccalilli ; drop a little vinegar into it to make it thinner. Dip the slices of beef into it ; flour them ; lay them on a dish. Pour the water over them ; warm them in an oven, or before the fire. Mash some potatoes with a little cream, or butter. Lay the punfe on a dish ; place the slices, when hot, on it, and serve. Lambs’ Sweetbreads—An Entree. Time, thirty-five minutes. 373. Some lambs’ sweetbreads; rather more than half a pint of good gravy ; bread- crumbs ; egg ; one glass of sherry. Thoroughly clean the sweetbreads and soak them in water for nearly an hour, then throw them into a basin of boiling water, which will blanch them and make them firm. Put them into a stewpan with some water and let them stew slowly for fifteen minutes, then dry them well on a clean cloth. Cover them with the yolk of an egg or two, pass them through bread-crumbs, and brown them in the oven. When done, put them on a liot dish and pour over tliem rather more than half a pint of good gravy boiled up with a glass of sherry. Sheeps’ Kidneys. Time, si.x to eight minutes. 374. Five or six kidneys ; pepper and salt; bread-crumbs and butter. Cut eacli kidney through without dividing it, take off the skins, and season highly with pepper and salt ; dip each kidney into melted butter, and strew bread-crumbs over them ; pass a small skewer through the white part to keep them flat, and broil them over a clear fire. Serve them witli the hollow part uppermost, filling each hollow with a piece of butter. Toad in a Hole. Time, one hour and a quarter. 375. h. chicken; some veal stuffing; three eggs ; one pint of milk ; some flour. Draw, bone, and truss a cliicken, fill it with a veal stuffing. Make a batter with a pint of milk, three eggs, and sufficient flour to make it thick ; pour it into a deep buttered dish. Place the fowl in the centre of the batter, and bake it in the oven. Serve in the same dish. Or—Of Cold Meat. Time, one hour and a quarter. 376. Some slices of cold roast mutton ; three or four sheeps' kidneys ; one pint of milk ; a large cupful of flour ; two eggs. Cut some nice slices of cold roast mutton, season them well with pepper and salt, and divide the kidneys into four. Mix with the milk sufficient flour to make a smooth batter, adding to it two well-beaten eggs. Butter a pie dish, pour in a little of the batter, then lay in the slices of meat and kidney ; pour over them the remainder of the batter, and place the dish in the oven to bake, for an hour and a quarter. When done, serve it quickly, fii the dish in which it was baked. Beef Rissoles. Time, ten minutes. 377. Some slices of cold roast beef; rather more than half their weight in grated bread ; a bunch of savoury herbs ; two or three eggs ; rind of a lemon grated ; half a pint of good brown gravy. Take some slices of rather lean cold roast beef, and mince it very fine; season it highly with pepper and salt ; and add a few savoury herbs chopped fine, and the peel of half a lemon, with rather more than half the weight of the beef in bread-cnmibs. Mix all well together, and bind it with two eggs well beaten into a very thick paste. Form it into balls, egg and bread-crumb them, fry them a nice brown, and serve them with good brown gravy poured round them. More frequently they are sent up dry^ on a cloth garnished with fried parsley. Minced Veal. Time, one hour and a quarter altogether. 378. The remains of cold fillet, or loin of veal ; a pint and a quarter of water ; half a teaspoonful of ininced lemon peel ; a tea- spoonful of lemon juice ; a little mace if the flavour is liked ; white pepper and salt to taste; three tablespoonfuls of milk; a bunch