Sausages— Saveloys—Blaek Puddings. 8o Hoil it till tender enough to take the bones out. Then cliop .some sage fine, mix it with the pepper and .salt, and rub it over the head. Hang it on the spit, and roast it at a good fire. Baste it well. Make a good gravy and pour over it. Apple sauce is eaten with it. Pig’s Head Boiled. Time, one hour and a half. 304. This is the more profitable dish, though not so pleasant to the palate ; it should first be salted, which is usually, done by the pork buteher; it should be boiled gently ; serve with vegetables. Pig’s Cheek. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 305. Pig’s eheek; one ounce of bread- crumbs. Boil and trim in the shape of ham, and, if very fat, earve it as a eoekle-shell; glaze it well, or put over it bread-crumbs and brown them. Oxford Sausages. 306. One pound of lean veal; one pound of young pork ; one pound of beef suet ; half a pound of grated bread ; peel of half a lemon ; one nutmeg grated ; six sage leaves ; one teaspoonful of pepper; two of salt; a sprig of thyme, savory, and mar- joram. Take a pound of lean veal, and the same quantity of young pork, fat and lean to- gether, free from skin and gristle, and a pound of beef suet; ehop all separately as fine as possible, and then mix together ; add the grated bread, the peel of half a lemon shred fine, a nutmeg grated, a teaspoonful of pepper, two of salt, and the sage leaves, thyme, savory, and marjoram, all chopped as fine as you can ; mix all thoroughly to- gether, and press it down into a prepared skin. When you use them, fry them in fresh butter a fine brown. Serve as hot as possible. The Cambridge Sausage. Time, nearly one hour. 307. Quarter of a pound of beef; quarter of a pound of veal; half a pound of pork ; half a pound of bacon ; half a pound of suet ; pepper and salt; a few sage leaves ; sweet herbs. Chop the meat into small pieces, and the suet as fine as possible ; season it highly with pepper and salt, a few minced sage leaves and sweet herbs. Take a delieately- clean skin, fill it with the sausage meat, and tie the ends securely. Prick it lightly in several parts, and put it in boiling water to boil for nearly an hour when required. Bologua Sausages. 308. Three pounds of lean beef; tfirge pounds of lean pork ; two pounds of fat bacon ; one pound and a half of beef suet; pepper ; salt; a sprig of thyme ; and ground maee. Take thrqe pounds of lean beef, the same of lean pork, two pounds of fat bacon, and a pound and a half of beef suet; put the lean meat into a stewpan of hot water, and set it over the fire for half an hour, then cut it small, each sort by itself, shred the suet, and bacon or ham, each by itself. Season with pepper, thyme cTiopped fine, and ground mace ; fill ox skins with it, tie them in lengths, and put them in a beet brine for ten days ; then smoke them the same as ham or tongue. Rub ground ginger or pepper over the outside after they are smoked, and keep them in a cool, dry place. Saveloys. Time, half an hour to bake. 309. Six pounds of pork ; one pound of common salt; one ounce of saltpetre ; three teaspoonfuls of pepper ; twelve sage leaves; one pound of bread-crumbs. Remove the skin and bone from six pounds of young pork, and salt it with the saltpetre and common salt ; let it stand in the pickle for three days, then mince it up very fine, and season it with pepper, and twelve sage leaves chopped as small as pos- sible ; add to it the grated bread, and mix it all well together, fill the skins, and bake them in a slow oven for half an hour. They may be eaten hot or cold. Black Puddings. Time, to soak, one night; to boil, half an hour. 310. Rather more than one quart of blood ; one quart of whole groats ; crumb of a quartern loaf; two quarts of new milk; a small bunch of winter savory and thyme, about half a teaspoonful of each ; two teaspoonfuls of salt ; one teaspoonful of pepper ; six cloves ; half a teaspoonful of allspice ; half a nutmeg ; a little grated ginger ; three pounds of beef suet ; six eggs ; three ounces of pork fat. Stir the hot blood with salt till it is quite cold, put a quart of it or rather more to a quart of whole groats, to soak one night. Soak the crumb of a quartern loaf in rather more than two quarts of new milk made hot. Chop fine a little winter savory and thyme ; beat up and strain six eggs; chop three pounds of beef suet; mix the suet, the herbs, and the seasoning of pepper, salt, allspice, cloves, ginger and nutmeg