40 Brill—John Dory—Salmon. salt, tacn put more sauce, then more fish, till the whole is used up. Sprinkle bread- crumbs over it, and bake it in a hot oven /or twenty minutes. Brown it, and serve it in the same dish. Other flat fish, which are no less popular in their way than the king of fiat fish, the turbot, are the brill, the plaice, the flounder, the dab, the sole and the marble sole. The brill is said by some to be almost equal to the turbot, and is dressed in the same way. Tlie plaice, however, when large and fine, is little if at all inferior to this more popular fish. A large plaice boiled, or a small one fried, are not to be despised ; but they are less firm in the flesh than the turbot and the sole, on wh^ch account they are less gene- rally liked. The flounder, the fluke or mayock fluke of Edinburgh, the butt of Yarmouth fishermen, the carrclct of the French, is a sea-fish, but ascends rivers and lives in salt, brackish, or fresh water. The Thames flounders are especial favourites. Flounders which are brought to market are generally small, but specimens have been known weighing as much as four pounds. The dab, the saltieof the Scotch, la limande of the French, is a nice little fish, which is brought to the London market in great abundance : it is usually about eight or ten inches long. All flat fish are very tenacious of life. They should be thick, and very firm and stiff, and the eyes should be bright. THE BRILL. A large brill is with difficulty to be dis- tinguished from a small turbot when very ivell cooked. It is longer and not so round. In season from August to April. Brill. Time, ten to twenty minutes. 49. One brill; four ounces of salt to each gallon of water ; a tablespoonful of vinegar. Thoroughly clean and remove the scales from a fine fresh brill; do not cut oft the fins, but rub it over with the juice of a lemon and a little salt ; set it in a fish- kettle with sufficient cold water, a handful of salt, and a tablespoonful of vinegar to cover it ; bring it gradually to boil, and then simmer for ten or twenty minutes, according to the size of the fish. Skim it well, as great care is required to preserve the beauty of its colour. Serve it on a napkin, and garnish with lemon, curled parsley, and horscradi.sh ; sprinkle some lobster coral over the fish, and send it to table with lobster sauce in a tureen. To Boil the John Dory. Time, three-quarters of .an hour. 50. Four ounces of salt; one gallon of water. Prepare the fish as you do a turbot. Put it into a fish-kettle with sufficient water to cover it, with the salt in proportion to the quantity of water ; bring it to the boil, and let it simmer gradually for about three- quarters of an hour—more or less according to the size of your fish. Serve it in a neatly folded napkin, and garnish with curled parsley and slices of lemon alternately. Lobster-sauce, shrimp-sauce, or plain melted butter can be sent up with it in a tureen. Boiled Salmon. Time, according to weight. 51. One salmon ; four ounces of salt to one gallon of water. Salmon is put into warm water instead of cold, in order to preserve its colour and set the curd. It should be thoroughly well dressed to be wholesome. Scale it; empty and w.ash it with the greatest care. Do not leave any blood in the inside that you can remove. Boil the salt rapidly in the fish-kettle for a minute or two, taking off the .scum as it rises ; put in the salmon, first trussing it in the shape of the letter S, and let it boil gently till it is thoroughly done. Take it from the water on the fish-plate, let it drain, put it on a hot folded fish napkin, and garnish with slices of lemon. Sauce: shrimp or lobster. Send up dressed cucumber with salmon. Middle Slice of Salmon. Time, ten minutes to the pound. 52. Middle piece or slice. Boil slowly in salt and water. Salmon should be put into warm water, which makes it eat firmer. Boil gently. Serve on a napkin. Sauce : lobster, shrimp, or plain melted butter and parsley. Broiled Salmon. Time, ten to fifteen minutes. 53. Slices from the middle of a salmon ; one tablespoonful of flour ; a sheet or tw' of oiled letter-paper; a little Cayenne pepper. Cut slices of an inch or an inch and a half thick from the middle of a large salmon ; dust a little Cayenne pepper over them ; wrap them in oiled or buttered p.aper, and broil them over a clear fire, first rubbing the bars of the gridiron with suet. Broiled salmon is extremely rich, and really requires no sauce. The slices may also be simply dried in a cloth, floured and broiled over a clear fire ; but they require the greatest care then to prevent them from burning. The gridiron is always rubbed with suet first.