74 Lamb Cutcets and Chops— Veal. serve it on a folded napkin with fried parsley. Cold lamb is so excellent that it is often preferred to hot-dressed joints. It is quite a mistake to prepare it by any of the modes of dressing up cold meat. It should be eaten cold with mint sauce and a nicely- made salad. Lamb Cutlets and Green Peas. Time, eight or ten minutes. 265. Two, or two and a half pounds of the. best end of a neck of lamb ; bread- crumbs ; two eggs ; pepper and salt; two ounces of butter ; half a peck of green peas. Take the cutlets from the best end of tire neck ; chop off the thick part of the chine bone, and trim the cutlets neatly by taking off the sldn and the greater part of the fat, scraping the upper part of the bones per- fectly clean. Brush each cutlet over with well-beaten yolk of egg, and then sprinkle them with fine bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt. After this dip them separately into a little clarified butter. Sprinkle more crumbs over them and fry them, turning them occasionally. Have ready half a peck of green peas, nicely boiled, and arranged in a pyramid or raised form in the centre of a hot dish. Lay the cutlets before the fire to drain, and then place them round the green peas. Lamb Chops. Time, eight to ten minutes. 266. Chops from the loin ; pepper and salt ; a mould of mashed potatoes. Cut the chops from a loin of lamb ; let them be about three-quarters of an inch tliick. Broil them over a clear fire. When they are done, season them with pepper and salt. Ilave ready a mould of nicely mashed potatoes in a hot dish ; place tlie chops leaning against them, and serve very hot. Or they may be served garnished only with fried parsley. VEAL. To Roast a Fillet of Veal. Time, four hours for twelve pounds. 267. Veal; half a pint of melted butter ; a lemon ; half a pound of forcemeat. Take out the bone of the joint, and with a sharp knife make a deep incision between the fillet and the udder. Fill it with the forcemeat or veal stuffing. Bind the veal up in a round form, and fasten it securely with skewers and twine. Run the spit as nearly through the middle as you can ; cover tlie veal with buttered paper, and put it at some distance from the fire at first, advancing it as it becomes dressed. Baste it well, and just before it is done, take off the paper, dredge a little flour over it, and baste it well with butter to give it a fine frothy appearance. Remove the skewers, and replace them with a silver one ; pour over the fillet some melted butter, with the juice of half a lemon and a little of the brown gravy from the meat. Garnish with slices of cut lemon, and serve with either boiled ham, baeon, or pickled pork. Or garnish with croquettes of potato in the form of pears with parsley stems, as in engraving. Fricandeau of Veal. Time, two hours and a half or three hours. 268. Three or four pounds of the fillet of veal ; a few slices of bacon ; a bunch of savoury herbs ; two blades of mace ; twa bay-leaves; five allspice ; one head of celery ; one carrot ; one turnip ; lardoons •, pepper to taste ; one pint of gravy or stock. Cut a thick handsome slice from a fillet of veal, trim it neatly round, and lard it thickly with fat bacon, as shown in the en- graving. Cut the carrot, turni;^, and celery into slices, and put them into a stew- pan with a bunch of savoury herbs, two blades of mace, five allspice, and two bay- leaves, with some slices of bacon at the top. Lay the fricandeau over the bacon with the larded side uppermost, dust a little salt over it, and pour round it a pint of good gravy or broth. Place it over the fire, and let it boil, then let it simmer voy gently for two hours and a half or three hours over a slow fire, basting it frequently udth the gravy. Take out the fricandeau when done ; skim off the fat, strain the gra\’}', and boil it quickly to a strong glaze, cover the fricandeau with it, and serve it up very hot, upon a puree of green peas. Be careful that the gravy does not touch the fricandeau, but that it only covers the bacon and other ingredients at the bottom of the dish. CALF’S HEAD. A calf's head may be bought ready »or cooking from the butcher's, but as it isas well to give directions for the cook under all pos- sible circumstances, we will say here that if she has a calf 's head to prepare ivith the hair on it, she must have ready a pan of scalding water to remove it. She will find the liai. easier to get off if she powders it with resit after letting it soak a little while in warn water. She must then plunge it into tltt scalding water, holding it by the ear, ano