78 To Roast Pork—To Steam, Boil, and Bake Ham. To Eoast a Loin of Pork. Time, two hours and a half. 287. Take a loin of pork of about five pounds, and score it with a very sharp knife at equal distances, place it at a good distance from the fire, to prevent the skin from becoming hard, and baste it very frequently all the time. When done, make a little gravy in the dripping-pan, pour it round the meat, and serve with apple sauce in a tureen. A loin ,of pork may be stuffed with sage and oniori, or the stuffing baked and served separately, if the flavour be not objected to by the family. To Soast a Sparerib of Pork. Time, one hour and three-quarters for si.x pounds. 288. Score the skin, put the joint down to a bright fire to roast, rub a little flour over it. If the rind is kept on, roast it without a buttered paper over it ; but if the skin and fat are removed, cover it with a buttered paper. Keep it frequently basted. About ten minutes before taking it up, strew over it some powdered sage ; froth it with a little/ butter, and serve with gravy strained over it, and apple sauce in a tureen. Pork Griskin. Time, a quarter of an hour to each pound. 289. A griskin is usually very hard. It is well before you roast it to put it into as much cold water as will cover it, and let it just boil, take it off the moment it boils ; rub a piece of butter over it and flour it, then set it in a Dutch oven before the fire to roast a nice brown. To Steam a Ham. Time, twenty minutes to each pound. 290. If the ham has been hung for some time, put it into cold water, and let it soak all night, or let it lie on a damp stone sprinkled with water for two days to mellow. Wash it well, put it into a steamer—there are proper ones made for the purpose— over a pot of boiling water. Steam it for as long a time as the weight requires, the pro- portion of time given above. This is by far the-best way of cooking a ham. It prevents waste and retains the flavour. When it is done, skin it and strew bread-raspings over it as usual. If you preserve the skin as whqje as possible and cover the ham when cold with it, it will prevent its becoming dry. To Boil a Ham. Time, four or five hours. 291. A blade of mace ; a few cloves ; a sprig of thyme ; and tw’o bay leaves. Well soak the ham in a large quantity ol water for twenty-four hours, then trim and scrape it very clean, put it into a large stew- pan with more than sufficient water to cover it ; put in a blade of mace, a few cloves, a sprig of thyme, and two bay leaves. Boil it for four or five hours, according to its weight ; and when done, let it become cold in the liquor in which it was boiled. Then remove the rind carefully without injuring the fat, press a cloth over it to absorb as much of the grease as possible, and shake some bread-raspings over the fat, or brush it thickly over with glaze. Serve it cold, garnished with parsley, or aspic jelly in the dish. Ornament the knuckle with a paper frill and vegetable flowers. Or to Serve Hot. Time, four hours for ten pounds. 292. Before placing your ham in soak, run a small sharp knife into it close to the bone, and if when withdrawn it has a plea- sant smell, the ham is good. Lay it in cold water to soak for twenty-four hours ff it has bung long, changing the water twice ; but twelve hours is the usual time for a York- shire ham. Before boiling, wash it thoroughly, and trim it neatly, removing any rusty parts. Cover it well with water, bring it gradually to a boil, taking care that it continues to do so (t^it not too fast), and as the scum rises skim the pot carefully, or it will fall and spoil the appearance of the ham. When it is done draw off the skin, and sift bread- raspings over the ham. Place a frill of paper round the knuckle, and serve. To Bake a Ham. Time, four hours. 293. Take a medium-sized ham, and place it to soak for ten or twelve hours. Then cut away the rusty part from underneath, wipe it dry, and cover it rather thickly ovej with a paste of flour and water. Put it into an earthen dish, and set it in a moderately- heated oven for four hours. When done, fake off the crust carefully and peel off the skin, put a frill of cut paper round the knuckle, and raspings of bread over the fat of the ham, or serve it glazed, and garnished with cut vegetables. Some persons infinitely prefer a baked ham to a boiled one, but w'e think it bettei boiled or steamed. To Boil a Leg of Pork. Time, a quarter of an hour for each pound, and half an hour over. 294. Procure a nice small compact leg ol pork, rub it well with salt, and let it remain