124 Fitters. fry them in boiling fat, roll them over on each side, drain and serve them very hot, with lemon and sugar. Snow Pancakes. 599. Four ounces of flour ; a quarter of a pint of milk ; a little grated nutmeg ; a pinch of salt ; sufficient flour to make a thick batter; and three large spoonfuls of snow to each pancake. Make a stiff batter with four ounces of flour, a quarter of a pint of milk, or more if required, a little grated nutmeg, and a pinch of salt. Divide the batter into any number of pancakes, and add three large spoonfuls of snow to each. Fry them lightly, in very good butter, and serve quickly. Batter for Fritters, 600. Eight ounces of flour; half a pint of water ; two ounces of butter ; whites of two eggs. Mi.x eight ounces of fine flour with about half a pint of water into a smooth batter, dissolve the butter over a slow fire, and then stir it by degrees into the flour. Then add the whites of two eggs whisked to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly in. Arrowroot Fritters. Time, about half an hour. 6or. Two pints of new milk ; ten ounces of arrowroot ; a little vanilla ; yolks of eight eggs ; sugar to taste ; bread-crumbs ; greengage or apricot jam. Put the milk in a good-sized stewpan over the fire until it boils ; have the arrow- root ready mi.xed, and stir it into the milk as quickly as possible, add the vanilla and yolks of eggs, the sugar the last. Stir it for about twenty minutes over a quick fire ; then put it into a deep cutlet-pan, and bake it about ten minutes in a quick oven. When it is quite cold, cut out the fritters with a round cutter, and egg and bread-cmmb them, glaze and send them up quite hot, with greengage or apricot sauce in the dish. Apple Fritters. Time, si.\ minutes. 602. Yolks of seven eggs; whites of three ; one pint of new milk ; a little grated nutmeg ; a glass of brandy ; and sufficient flour for the batter; six apples. Beat and strain tire yolk’s of seven eggs, and the whites of three ; mix into them a pint of new milk, a little grated nutmeg. a pinch of salt, and a glass of brandy. Well beat the mixture, and then add gra- dually sufficient flour to make a thick batten Pare and core six large apples, cut them in slices about a quarter of an inch thick, sprinkle pounded sugar over them, and set them by for an hour or more ; dip each piece of apple in the batter, and fry them in hot lard about six minutes ; the lard should not be made too hot at first, bii must become hotter as they are fr)’ing. Serve on a napkin with sifted sugar ovei them. Apricots are extremely good done in the : same way. Cake Fritters. 603. A stale pound-cake ; strawberry ot any other preserve ; a few spoonfuls of' cream. Cut a stale cake into slices an inch and a . half in thickness, pour over them a little: good cream, and fry them lightly in fresh , butter; and when done, place over each 1 slice of cake a layer of strawberry or any other preserve. Bread Fritters. 604. A quart basinful of bread ; one: quart of milk ; two eggs ; half a nutmeg ; one tablespoonful of brandy; one of butter ; a little salt. To a quart basinful of stale bread broken small, put a quart of boiling milk, cover it for ten or fifteen minutes. When quite soft, beat it with a spoon until it is smooth, add two well-beaten eggs, half a nutmeg: grated, a tablespoonful of brandy, one of butter, and a little salt. Beat it light ; make an omelet-pan hot, put in a small piece of butter, and when dissolved pour in sufficient batter to run over the pan ; let it fry gently. When one side is a fine brown turn the other, put butter and sugar with a little grated nutmeg over, lay one on the other, cut them through in quarters, and seire them hot. Orange Fritters. 605. Three oranges; batter; pounded sugar. Take the peel and white skin from three large oranges ; then cut them across into; slices, pick out the seeds, and dip each slice of orange into a thick batter. Fry them nicely, and ser\’c them with sugar sifted over each.