114 Baked and Boiled Puddings. i)f two eggs ; a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar ; a little almond flavour, or the peel and juice of two lemons. Line a dish with puff paste, and put in it raspberry or any other preserve, about half an inch thick. Mi.'c with a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar the grated peel and juice of two lemons ; then stir in the yolks of eight and the wliites of two eggs well beaten, and lastly tire butter, which only re- quires melting and pouring off clear. Stir all together until it is thoroughly mi.xed, then pour it over the preserve, and bake in a quick oven. Half the quantity will make five or si.x puddings, baked in buttered saucers lined with puff paste. Boiled Batter Pudding. Time, to boil, one hour and a quarter. 523. One pint of milk; one ounce of butter; three eggs; two tablespoonfuls of flour. Mix two spoonfuls of flour to a smooth batter with a little cold milk, then add the remainder of the milk, and stir in the butter, which should be previously dis- solved ; add three well-beaten eggs, and when the batter is perfectly smooth, stir in a pinch of salt; pour it into a buttered basin, tie it over very lightly with a cloth dredged with flour, and plunge the basin into a saucepan of boiling water. Move the basin about for two or three minutes to prevent the flour settling in any part, and boil it. When done, turn it out of the basin, and serve it with wine or sweet sauce. Cheap Batter Pudding. Time, to bake, one hour ; to boil, two hours. 524. Three eggs ; sis dessertspoonfuls of flour: one quart of milk ; two tablespoon- fuls of sugar ; one of butter; half a nut- meg ; a little salt and essence of lemon or peach water. Beat the eggs with the flour until very light, then stir into it very gradually a quart of new milk, add the butter dissolved and the sugar, flavour it with a teaspoonful of essence of lemon or peach watef, and half a nutmeg grated. Beat it all well together, and bake it in a buttered basin or mould for one hour. Wlien done, turn it out and serv’c, or it may be boiled for two hours and served with white sauce. Wyvern Puddings. Time, to bake, twenty minutes. 525. Three-quarters of a pint of milk ; .ihree eggs; enough flour to make a thick batter ; raspberry jam. Make a nice batter of the milk, flour, and eggs. Butter some patty-pans. Pour the batter into them till they are three parts full. Bake them. When done, place them on a folded napkin, and put jam on the top of them. Beaulieu Puddings. Time, half an hour. 526. Six ounces of fresh butter; eight dessertspoonfuls of flour; three ounces of pounded sugar; peel of half a lemon grated; six bitter almonds ; ten sweet; two ounces of candied citron or orange peel; one spoonful of brandy. Mix eight dessertspoonfuls of flour wuh six ounces of fresh butter beaten to a cream ; add the sugar pounded, the peel of half a lemon grated, the bitter and sweet almonds blanched and cut into long shreds, and the citron or orange peel cut into slices ; mix all thoroughly together, adding a spoonful of brandy, put it into patty-pans or small moulds, and bake lightlj'. A Plain Cabinet Pudding. Time, one hour. 527. Three ounces of stoned raisins; four eggs ; peel of a lemon grated; one pint of milk ; slices of bread and butter; sugar to taste. Stone three ounces of jar raisins, and arrange them over the inside of a buttered pudding basin, then nearly fill the basin with slices of bread and butter with the crust cut off, and sprinkle the grated lemon peel over each slice. Add the eggs well beaten to the milk, sweeten to taste, and pour it over the bread and butter, let it stand for a quarter of an hour, then tie a floured cloth over it, boil for an hour, and serve with cabinet pudding or sweet sauce. Cabiuet Puddle g. Time, to steam, one hour. 528. Seven or eight small spongecakes; a large cupful of white wine ; three ounces of loaf sugar; seven eggs ; one quart of new milk. Pour a large cupful of white wine over seven or eight small spongecakes to soak them through. Sweeten a quart of new milk with about Ihree ounces of loaf sugar, stir into it seven well-beaten eggs, and mix it well together, pour k over the soaked spongecakes, and then carefully turn the whole into a buttered mould, tie it securely over and steam it. Serv'e it with the cabinet pudding sauce given below. Cabinet Pudding Sauce. 529. Yolks of two eggs ; two tablespoon- fuls of pounded sugar; four or five spoonfuls of white wine.