A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. dans les autret Poissons, I ejou xxv. Art. I. r'ght Brachial, and the two Ccphalics, are observed to arise by a common trunk. , The Aorta in birds, which bends to the right immediately upon its leaving the Ventricle, gives out two branches, of which the left always takes precedence in point of origin. These two branches, like the divisions of the ascending Aorta, also send off the Brachial and Cephalic branches of their own sides. The Aorta, in Cuvier’s Class of Reptilia, divides differently according to the Orders and Genera of the class. In some, the heart has two Auricles, and two Ventricles, imperfectly divided. In others, marks of division disappear, and the heart has dis- tinctly but one Auricle and one Ventricle. In some of the Orders where there are two, three Arteries issue from the heart, which would be very nearly the appearance that we see in some of the class of Mammalia, were the two Aortas to open by sepa- rate mouths from their Ventricle. In others, two Arteries issue from tlie heart, which approaches nearer to the appearance that we see in Man, and in those Mammalia that most nearly re- semble him. In others, the Aorta, instead of the branches that send off the Arteries of the opposite sides, divides into two se- perate trunks, that afterwards unite. The Aorta of the Ray proceeds from the Heart, directly At- lantad, sends off near its origin two lateral branches, and after- wards terminates in other two. These four branches are each d i- vided into smaller branches, which running along the Branchial Arches, on their concave side, and sending Ratnuli to the folds that radiate from their convex side, are afterwards united in a common trunk that runs along the Vertebral Column, on its Sternal aspect This last description is from a preparation that is now before me, and Cuvier, who describes'the other Arteries of the Genus Ray, concludes with saying, Telle est la distribu- tion generate des Artfcres dans la Ruin. Elle est peu different*