AUDITORY NERVE AND LABYRINTH 334 elements in the labyrinth. The condition pre- sents itself frequently in sportsmen and marks- men as the result of excessive shooting, the left ear being in them the more exposed, and consequently the more markedly affected. The treatment consists in suitable change of occupation (not, for instance, as in a case of the writer's, from that of a naval gunner to that of a boilermaker !) or in the plugging of the ear during shooting, or, it may be, in the adoption of the form of powder and sporting weapon which gives the least report. This, though often beneficial, is not always so, and the de- generation once started has been known to be progressive. Improvement has, in the writer's experience, been followed in cases treated for him by Dr. Lewis Jones by means of the con- tinuous electrical current. The negative pole is the one applied to the tragus. A single exposure to a violent explosion has frequently produced a similar form of deafness. In one instance suction to the meatus has afforded relief apparently by drawing out the in-driven tympanic structures. As a rule the damage is in these cases permanent. Labyrinthine Deafness resulting from Chronic Nephritis. — Morf's investigations would indicate that this is due to a toxic rather than an inflammatory, circulatory, or oedema- tous change, the deafness fluctuating with the evidences of urcemia. In the writer's experience it is usually associated with a very considerable amount of vertigo. In general the treatment is that appropriate to the uraemia. In practice the symptoms, especially the vertigo, seem to yield most readily to iodide of potassium, with a " milk and fish diet." Chronic Labyrinthitis, Secondary to Middle - ear Disease. — We find a chronic inflammatoi'y degeneration of the nervous ele- ments in the internal ear in the more advanced stages of chronic nonsuppurative inflammation of the middle ear, especially when of the sclerotic type. It may be due to extension of the arthritic disease from the stapedio-vestibular articulation—rheumatic, osteo-arthritic, gouty, syphilitic, or otherwise,—or it may be, with this arthritis, a concomitant result of a tropho- neurotic disturbance. It is to be recognised by a diminution of bone-conduction succeeding to the previous increase, with the persistence of the negative Rinne, and the loss of hearing for the highest tones. There is then better hear- ing for middle tones than for any others. The treatment consists primarily in the avoid- ance of local manipulations which do more harm than good, the counteracting of the special dyscrasia present, and the maintenance or ex- altation of the patient's nerve tone. We must mainly depend on the administration of strych- nine (of which large doses are better borne if covered, as advised by Lake, with small doses of chloral hydrate), combined with dilute hydro- bromic acid and arsenic in whatever form is best borne. Residence at an altitude is specially beneficial. Chronic Labyrinthitis associated with Chronic Suppurative Inflammation of the Middle Ear.— This is usually of tuberculous nature, but it may arise in the course of any depressing disease, such as scarlet fever, measles, typhoid, diph- theria, or diabetes. The microbic invasion often extends through the fenestra rotunda, causing speedy disorganisation of Corti's elements, or the bone may be primarily attacked, and spreading caries or necrosis result. Besides damage to the auditory structures, there is frequently involvement of the facial nerve, occasionally erosion of blood-vessels, infection of the meninges, sinuses, or brain. The signs of its existence are, in addition to the long-stand- ing fetid suppuration from the middle ear, extreme diminution of hearing power by bone- conduction, frequent disturbance of equilibrium, the presence of carious spots on the promontory, or the extrusion of fragments of diseased bone. The treatment locally consists in the use of antiseptics, especially iiTigation with perchloride or biniodide of mercury. Constitutionally the therapeutic and hygienic measures indicated by the dyscrasia must be carried out. Various Special Forms op Nerve-Deafnbss Tabetic Auditory Nerve-Deafness.—This is one of the less common complications of loco- motor ataxy, and may be due to a degenerative neuritis in the nerve-trunk, an affection of the auditory nucleus, or a syphilitic labyrinthitis. Neuritis, which has been found post-mortem, would be indicated by a nerve-deafness in which the loss of hearing was greatest for tones other than the highest; the nuclear affection by im- plication of neighbouring nuclei (the sixth with conjugate deviation to the opposite side); the labyrinth by the intensity of the deafness, most marked for the highest tones and the rapid onset, as compared with the gradual develop- ment of the others. The primary diagnosis, would, of course, depend on the coexistence of the signs of locomotor ataxy, which may be overlooked if not kept in mind, and which should therefore be sought for in every case of nerve-deafness. The degree of deafness undergoes slight variations like the other symptoms in tabes, and there is little to recommend beyond the constitutional treatment appropriate to that disease. Sympathetic Nerve - Deafness. — For some reason or other disease of one ear, whether of the conducting or the perceptive part, exercises an injurious influence on the opposite one, this showing itself as what may be well described as a sympathetic "nerve-deafness." It occurs