415 BLOOD, PHYSIOLOGY AND CLINICAL INVESTIGATION OF The mode of transformation of the nucleated red blood-corpuscle (erythroblast) into the non- nucleated one (erythrocyte) is still a subject of controversy. Some believe that the nucleus leaves the cell byji process of extrusion, basing their opinion upon the fact that transition changes can be seen showing the gradu;d passage outwards of the nucleus. Others liold that the nuclear matter breaks down and dis- solves in the cell (karyolysis), and they describe appearances, especially in preparations stained with methylene lilue, that seem to support their view. They affirm that extrusion of the nuclei, when it occurs, is artificial. Ehrlich believes that the first view is true for the nor- moblasts, and the second for the megaloblasts. It seems likely that the nuclear matter does undergo at least partial degeneration, before it is extruded, and thus some nucleoid matter may be left in the cell. With regard to tlie white fi/ood-corpusdes, it is most important to know their centres of for- mation after birth. In adult life the seats of formation are the same as in embryonic life, except that the thymus gland after birth gradually becomes inactive. There are three great developmental centres, lymphatic glands (including all collections of lymphoid tissue), spleen, and bone marrow. Many hold that the lymphocytes are the forerunners of all the other forms, and in early embryonic life this may be true; but the view held by another section has much to support it, namely, that the granular cells (myelocytes) formed in the bone marrow- are the forerunners of the true granular cells of the blood, while the lymphocytes which are formed in the germinal centres of the spleen and lymphatic glands pass into the circulating blood in the same form, and do not develop into the granular leucocytes. The nuclei of the large lymphocytes may imdergo indentation and finally fragmentation without any appearance of neutrophilous granules in the cytoplasm. There is no doubt that the lymphocyte may at least pass through its developmental course without passing through a stage similar to the neutro- philous polymorphic leucocytes. Much can be said in support of each view, but one may say that our fuller knowledge of the two great types of leucocythsemia has strengthened the latter view. One cannot draw definite conclusions simply from seeing cells that might possibly be transition forms between lymphocytes and granular leucocytes. Judg- ment must be based upon results of experiment, such as removal of spleen, pathological lesions of the blood-formative parts (e.f/. of bone marrow, spleen, lymphoid tissues) and develop- mental history. The subject is still, however, mih judice. Physiological and Pathological Variations. —Those affecting the red cells have already been mentioned, while the main alterations in the leucocytes will be I'cferred to in other articles (see leucocj'tosis, leucocytluemia). Here a reference will simply be made to some of the conditi(jns leading to an increase or a decrease in their numbers. An increase affecting prac- tically all the varieties of white cells occurs in different physiological conditions, for example, in the digestion leucoci/tosis, occurring about four hours after a meal, in the nnvly horn and in pregnancy. Two great tyjjes of leucocytosis may be distinguished, namely, one affecting especially or entirely the non - gmnular cells (passive leucocytosis, i.e. an increase in the non-amoeboid cells, the lymphocytes), and the other affecting the granular forms, either those which are present normallj' in the blood, or those which, under normal conditions, do not leave tlie marrow, the myelocytes (active leucocytosis, i.e. of the amooljoid cells or their forerunners). I. Lymphocytosis [Passive Leueocytcjsis).—By far the most important condition in which this occurs is the lymphatic form of leucocythajmia ; but a relative lymphocytosis occurs also in children's diseases, such as rickets and whooping- cough, and also in hereditary syphilis. It occasionally occurs in secondary anfcmia in the adult. II. Active Leucocytosis. — The most common form is the polymorphic neutrophilous leucocy- tosis, where the eosinophilous cells and lym- phocytes may be both relatively and absolutely diminished. This occurs luider different physio- logical and pathological conditions, especially well marked in the infectious diseases. By an eosinophilous leucocytosis one means both a relative and absolute increase in the true eosinophilous cells. The most important pathological condition in which this occurs are asthma, certain skin affections, and in helmin- thiasis. A very important point in these conditions is the appearance of Cluu-cot-Leyden crystals in fseces or sputum. The views that are held as to the mode of prodiiction of these different forms will be discussed in the article on leucocytosis. The passage of myelocytes from the marrow into the blood occurs most markedly in medul- lary leucocythfemia. III. Leucopenia or diminution in the nvimber of the white corpuscles is usually due simply to an altered distribution of the cells, as in the preliminary hypoleucocytosis after injection of animal extracts, when the leucocytes have been withdrawn to the pulmonary capillaries, and are there heaped up. A diminution due to an increased breaking down of the cells must be rare. The decrease in the numbers in the blood may be due to a diminu- tion in their withdrawal from the marrow or from a decreased functional activity of the same. In some cases, after injection of nucleic acid there seems to be, in comparison with the