403 BLADDER, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF causes, or the result of slouf^liiu^' after difficult labour. Symptoms.—In vesico-jil)floiiuii;il fistula there is a discharge of urine, often mixed with pus, from the external opening, which generally causes excoriation of the surrounding skin. In vesico-intestinal fistula, ftecal matter often passes into the bladder, setting up cystitis, and in some cases gas also makes its way into the viscus from the bowel, bubbles of air as well as ftcces being then expelled with the urine (" pneumaturia "). The Treatment in these cases must be con- ducted on general principles. If there is any cause of obstruction to the escape of the urine per urethram, it should if possible be removed. In recto-vesical fistula) due to malignant disease, whether originating in the bladder or rectum, colotomy will often afford relief by preventing the passage of faeces into the bladder. When due to simple ulceration, the same operation by leaving the bladder free from irritation will often enable the fistula to heal, and when this has taken place the artificial anus may suVj- sequently be closed by a plastic operation. In vesico-abdominal fistula} of a non-malignant nature, scraping or refreshing the margins of the track, and afterwards keeping the bladder empty by retaining a catheter or frequently drawing oflp the urine, will often be followed by healing. The Female Bladder. The jirevimis description of morbid conditions of the bladder holds good for male and female bladders alike, but owing to the anatomical differ- ences and' their associated clinical features, a short article indicating their leading points is here given. Anatomy and Physiology.—The urethra, which is only If inch in length and very dilat- able, is closely incorporated with the lower portion of the anterior vaginal wall, while the posterior wall of the bladder is separated from the upper portion of the vagina, the cervix and the lower portion of the uterine body by loose connective tissue which permits of free move- ment of one viscus upon the other. The anterior surface of the upper part of the uterus rests upon the upper part of the bladder. The periton- eum, firmly attached over the fundus of each organ, dips down between them in the utero- vesical pouch, where it is loosely attached. When empty, the bladder lies behind the pubic symphysis, more or less to one side. Its outline, in sagittal section, is oval when contracted, Y-shaped when relaxed. As the bladder fills, it pushes the uterus backward and obliterates, more or less, the utero-vesical pouch. Being relatively broad at the base, it does not rise above the pelvic brim until it contains consider- ably over 3xij. of fluid. Early in labour the l)la(lder is pulled up above the brim and remains an abdominal organ until parturition is com- pleted. Pathology.—The shortness of the female urethra accounts for the ease with which the bladder becomes infected, and for the facility with which foreign bodies are introducecl. Calculi are found less frequently in the female than in the male liladder, because they escape when still small by the short wide female lu'ethra; sometimes, however, becoming im- pacted at or near the meatus. Owing to its relation to the vagina, the bladder is said to be injured occasionally in coitus. Substances from the neighbouring reproductive organs may enter the bladder, e.g. pus from pelvic abscess, bones from ectopic gestation, pessaries from the vagina. Contraction of the bladder during micturition often causes pain by pulling upon inflamed pelvic structures, while a full bladder causes discomfort by pressing on them. Pelvic tumoui-s mechanically obstruct the movements of the bladder, causing irritation and frequency of micturition. By occupying the pelvis, they cause the bladder to rise when full into the abdomen, when they frequently cause retention by compressing the urethra against the symphysis. For example, in normal pregnancy frequency of micturition is common, while in retroversion of the gravid uterus the bladder is lifted above the pubes and retention frequently results from pressure of the cervix upon the urethra. Malignant disease of the reproductive organs rapidly invades the bladder, and is the most frequent cause of vesico-vaginal fistula. Prolonged pressure of the head against the symphysis during labour may cause slough- ing of the tissues, resulting in fistula. The early use of the forceps has greatly lessened the frequency of fistulfc of this kind, which are now hwt seldom seen. Lacerations of the bladder produced directly Ijy obstetric instruments are still less common. AVhen the pelvic floor fails in supporting the viscera which rest upon it, there is downward displacement of its anterior portion, and the anterior vaginal wall, with the urethra and the lower part of the bladder, bulges out at the vaginal orifice. Irritability and frequent micturition are the first symptoms of this downward displacement of the bladder, which is accompanied by retroversion and downward displacement of the uterus. This condition of " sacro-pubic hernia," more generally known as prolapsus uteri, must be distinguished from the much rarer condition, true cystocele, usually seen in old people, in which the lower part of the bladder, covered by the vaginal wall, bulges out at the vaginal orifice, the uterus and the upper portion of the bladder remaining in their normal position. Examination — (a) Bimanual. — With two fingers in the vagina and the other hand on the abdomen, vesical calculi and foreign bodies can be discovered unless very small; tenderness is recognised and inflammatory thickening of the bladder-wall may be estimated.