204 ANKLE-JOINT, REGION OF—INJURIES AND DISEASES inwards, giving rise to a condition of flat-foot, the so-called tabetic club-foot. Diagnosis in these cases requires care, because at the time of occurrence of the complication the signs of locomotor ataxia may not be evident to casual inspection. The disease is most liable to be mistaken for rheumatoid arthritis, but, independently of the other signs of ataxia, it can usually be distinguished by the abundance of the effusion in the early stages, by the rapid progress of the disease, and by the freedom of movement in most cases. Treatment.—In the earlier stages rest upon a splint may do something to check the disease, and it is possible that the removal of the fluid l)y means of an aspirator may act beneficially. In the later stages the rapid progress may be some- what stayed by the use of splints. Excision of the joint is to be avoided, and the same remark is usually applied to amputation. Southam, how- ever, has recently recorded four cases of Charcot's disease of the ankle and tarsus in which he has removed the limb with excellent results. Loose Bodies.—These are very uncommon in the ankle-joint. When they do occur, they may give rise to symptoms similar to those caused by loose bodies in other joints {vide " Knee-joint"). Under such circumstances they should be removed through an incision with antiseptic precautions. Some years ago a case came under our notice, in which, as a result of an injury, a portion of the articular cartilage of the astragalus became detached, and formed a loose body in the joint. This was removed, and the patient made a complete recovery. Ankylosis.—Fibrous ankylosis may occur in the ankle-joint as a result of injury, as a result of one of the forms of septic synovitis, especially the gonorrhoeal variety, or from tuberculous arthritis. Bony ankylosis may occur in cases where the cartilages are destroyed by suppura- tive or tuberculous arthritis. Treatment.—In cases of fibrous ankylosis some benefit may result from forcible wrenching under an anaisthetic, followed by daily massage and friction with liniments. In severe cases, and in cases of bony ankylosis, no operation, with the object of restoring movement, is likely to be of service, but, if the foot be in bad position, an attempt may be made to rectify the latter. Hysterical Disease.—The ankle is not in- frequently the seat of hysterical joint-disease. In most cases it is said to have arisen in a sprain or other injury, more or less trivial. The diagnosis from organic disease of the joint must rest upon the absence of the objective signs of disease, and, if necessary, upon an examination under an anaesthetic. Treatment must be directed to improvement of the general health, and to encouraging the patient to use the joint. Blistering, passive movements, massage, and the faradic current may be of service. Diseases of the Tarsal Bones and Joints The tarsal joints may be the seat of simple inflammatory, pyogenic, tuberculous, syphilitic, rheumatoid, or gouty disease ; they are also sub- ject to tabetic arthropathy. The tarsal bones are not infrequently the seat of tuberculous deposits, and occasionally of sarcomatous growths. With regard to these aff'ections, except tuberculous disease and new growths, it is unnecessary to add anything to the remarks which have already been made in connection with the ankle-joint. Tuberculous Disease.—In the great majority of cases tuberculous disease of the tarsus com- mences in the bones as a tuberculous osteo- myelitis, and involves the joints secondarily. The joints are first affected in a few cases. Of the bones the calcaneum is the one which is most often involved, the disease usually starting in front of the posterior epiphysial line, and in many cases remaining for a long time strictly limited to this situation. After a time, however, the astragal o-calcaneal or the calcaneo-cuboid joints may be invaded. With the exception of the calcaneum, the cuboid and the astragalus are the most subject to disease. When commencing in the astragalus, tuberculous disease is most important, as it is very apt to extend rapidly to the neighbouring joints. The scaphoid and the cuneiform bones may also be the primary seat of trouble, and in such cases the disease is apt to spread widely, because these bones enter into the formation of the complicated medio-tarsal joint. The anterior and posterior tibial tendon-sheaths are sometimes invaded. It would appear that phthisis is especially apt to supervene in cases of tuberculous disease of the tarsus. The symptoms presented by these cases are swelling, pain, tenderness, and more or less difficulty in walking. Local heat and redness of the skin are inconstant. The seat of the swelling varies considerably with the exact origin of the disease, but as a rule it is most evident on the dorsum and at the sides of the foot, and is only slightly recognisable on the sole. When suppuration occurs the pus usually points in the same situations. Treatment.—In the early stage the treatment is practically the same as for tuberculous disease of the ankle-joint. Operative measures, how- ever, must not be long deferred, for, owing to the complicated structure of the tarsal joints, the disease is apt to spread widely, and, more- over, in the early stage the tuberculous process is often limited to one part, and can be cured by a simple operation, whilst in the later stages the whole tarsus is involved, and extensive removal is necessary. Operation should be undertaken at once if there are signs of sup- puration, or if the disease spreads in spite of rest and local treatment. It should be a rule to remove too much rather than too little when operating upon these cases. If the whole of