331 AUDITORY NERVE AND LABYRINTH (/■) "Word-deafness" indicates a lesion of the upper left temporo-sphenoidal convolution (in left-handed patients the right one). Pathological Nature ok the Lesions.—We are guided in this very much by the mode of onset, thus :— A sudden onset is characteristic of hiemor- rhage, congestion, or ana3inia, whether trau- matic or idiopathic, embolism or hysteria. A rapid, onset with fever is seen in the various forms of the acute labyrinthitis, without fever in such rapid effusions as occiu- in syphilitic affections of the labyrinth. A gr^adual onset suggests the slower inflam- matory or degenerative changes resulting from habitual exposure to noises, sclerosis of the middle ear, toxic agencies, plethora, aniemia, degenerations of the central nervous system, tabes dorsalis, new growths and old age. A conrjenital defect indicates imperfect develop- ment or ante-natal disease. Special Diseases of the Labyiunth and Auditory Nerve-Appara'I'US In the following account, such pathological details as are available are treated with the utmost brevity to allow space for points of clinical and practical importance. Anaemia op the Labyrintpi and Auditory Nerve generally arises from causes such as rapid and considerable loss of blood, continuous defective nutrition, or rarely from local causes, such as occlusion of the auditory artery by pres- sure of a tumour, embolism, or thrombosis. Small h;emorrhages have been found in the labyrinth in cases of pernicious and simple auicmia. It is recognised as a " nerve-deafness " associ- ated with pallor, faintness, and the other general signs of aufemia, with humming, often pulsating tinnitus. The symptoms are relieved by food, by rest in the recumbent posture, and, for the time, by inhalation of a small quantity of nitrite of amyl. The most characteristic instances occur in hospital practice in the persons of poor widows. Treatment consists in good nourish- ment, judicious use of alcoholic stinnilants, iron, arsenic, chloride of anunonium, luemo- globin prepai'ations, and inci'casing doses of strychnine or nux vomica. Congestion of the Labyrinth and Auditory C!entres occurs alone, but is often the accom- paniment of congestive affections of the middle ear or of the encephalon, whether arising from inflammatory or neuro - vascular causes. We frequently find this last factor in action during the climacteric, or other periods of nervous dis- turbance. It also arises from conditions in- creasing the arterial tension (chronic interstitial nephritis, gout, etc.), or impeding the venous return (goitre, heart disease, aneurysm, etc.). The characteristic features are in general "nerve-deafness," with evidences of plethora. such as florid complexion, headache, rushing or pulsating noises in the head, impaired sleep, attacks of vertigo, or loss of blood. The symp- toms are i-elieved by purgatives, and are made worse by lying down, hearty eating, alcoholic stimulants, mental excitement, or for a time by the inhalation of nitrite of amyl. In arterial congestion the tinnitus is usually pulsating, and it is checked by compression of the vertebral arteries by means of the finger and thumb of one hand in the hollows behind, and slightly below the mastoid processes. In venous con- gestion there is more of a rushing noise, and pressure on the vertebrals has a less marked effect. Treatment consists in the removal, if pos- sible, of such causes as have been mentioned. In general, the diet will need regulation or reduction ; aperient drugs or waters will have to be ordered. The most valuable remedies are the bromides, and in many cases, especially the climacteric, a combination of bromide of potas- sium with the compound decoction of aloes will be found reasonably palatable and therapeuti- cally of the utmost value. In cases of arterial tension, small doses of calomel, ^ to ^- a grain once or twice a day, with a milk and fish diet, are very efficacious. Relief sometimes follows depletion of tlie turbinated bodies. Pressure may be exerted on the vertebral arteries by small conical pads in the suboccipital hollows above mentioned, kept in their place by means of a strap round the forehead. Pilocarpin is sometimes beneficial in these cases, but in the anremic ones it is to be rigorously tabooed. Vaso-Motor Oscillations in the Auditory Circulation.—In some cases we find auditory and equilibrial disturbances in the same indi- vidual, presenting at one time congestive, at another antemic characters, which we may attri- bute to vaso-motor instability from whatever cause ai'ising. Among the most frequent causes are abuse of tobacco, sexual excitement and nervous exhaustion. The removal of the cause is the primary indication. This may be accom- panied by the administration of small doses of nerve tonics, such as arsenic, strychnine, ignatia, and, perhaps best of all, camphor, which may be administered in doses of five to ten minims of the strong (Rubini's) solution in half a wine- glassful of milk three or four times daily. Bromides must be prescribed with caution. The bromide of arsenic (Clemens' solution) witit strychnine and hydrobromic acid combine well. The application of the continuous current to the "sympathetic" in the neck has been strongly recommended. H.EM0RRHAGE I.VTO THE LaBYRINTH. Tllis is the lesion typical of "Meniere's disease." It may occur in the course of any of the L;eneral diseases which lead to haemorrhages, such as leucocythaemia, purpui'a, whooping-cough, and simple or pernicious ana'mia, but also, apart