475 BRAIN, AFFECTIONS OF BLOOD-VESSELS a'deiua of the'Viraiu follows exiictly the same laws as ffideina of other organs, because we have in the lirain very abundant lymph channels with ventricles and their connections, preventing probably in great measure actual effusion into the brain itself, except luider conditions which are scarcely consistent with life. Of course, in speaking of oedema of the l)rain general a'flema is meant, because partial or local axlema only arises in connection with local disease. It is likely that in severe conditions of hyperiemiaof the brain some degree of oedema is always present. Si/mjHoms.—It is said that in conditions in which the effusion is general and infiltrating the intelligence is suddenly or slowly interfered with, according to the manner of occurrence of the oedema. Occasionally general convulsions are present, also twitching or rigidity, and even delirium. The oedema which accompanies senile wasting of the brain and which is compensatory does not give rise to symptoms, but it is likely that the only condition in which true a>dema can be definitely proved is a condition associated with cerebral tumour, with intense intracranial pressure, and in such conditions the symptoms of the oedema are entirely masked by the general sj'mptoms resulting from the presence of the intracranial growth. It is really useless to try to particularise the symptoms of cerebral ffidema. Etiolo(iy.—The etiology of the condition is sufficiently dealt with in what we have already said, and it may be stated generally that it is conceivable that oedema may occur in any con- dition in whicli there is hyperajmia. Patltological Anatomic.—If the brain has been infiltrated with serum it is usually pale, softer, and wetter than usual, and on section of the substance a small quantity of sei'Oiis fluid may be seen to run out. The fluid in the ventricles is increased, and the perivascular spaces are dilated and distended. These lesions, it will be seen, differ ^•ery little from the jjhenomena met with as a result of cadaveric maceration, and certain authors have regarded it as such. The diagnosis and treatment have been sufficiently dealt with in what has been iilready said. Cerebraf, H.emorrhage When cerebral hiemorrhage is spoken of, what is usnall}' meant is bleeding occurring into the substance of the brain. Meningeal hiemorrhage, on the other hand, although it may sometimes also aft'ect the brain substance, is usually spoken of under that name. Hfemorrliage ma}' also occur into a cavity in the brain, one or other of the ventricles, and then it is sometimes spoken of as ventricular hfemorrliage. But from the clinical point of view all those three varieties— hixnuorrhage on the surface of the Ijrain, occur- ring originally from the membranes, tuemorrhage into the substance of the brain, and luemorrhage into the \entricle,s, whii'h may be primary or may ))e secondarj' to hiem')rrhage into the brain substance—all three are so closely allied in their clinical symptoms that it is impossible to draw a hard and fast line between the difterent varieties. Etiology.—Cerebral hiemorrhage is the result of the rupture of a vessel, usually an artery, and is almost always a result not only of conclitions of pressure, etc., \mt also of disease of the vessel wall. Atheroma of arteries is a condition occurring as a result of increasing age and strain upon the vascular sj-stem. Such arteries undoubtedly rupture occasionally, partly on account of the unyielding character which atheroma imparts to the vessel wall, partly also on account of the conditions of high pressure, of which proljably the atheroma itself is one of the effects. But it is most likely that cereltral hajmorrhage, in the sense in which we are at present considering it, is most frequently the result of the rujjture of minute aneurysms, so-called miliary aneurysms, which form upon cerebral vessels as a residt of weakening of the muscular wall, some e\'en say of inflammation in it, and of increase in the blood pressure. It is verj' likely that atheroma of the large arteries may facilitate the production of such aneurysms by increasing the force and sudden- ness of the pulse - wave which reaches the smaller arteries. No doubt, also, the un- suj3ported character of the cereliral vessels, in which sucli aneurysms are most apt to occur, facilitates the occurrence of such a change. Of the conditions associated with high l)lo()d jjressure and the consequent occurrence of the changes alluded to in the Ijlood-vessels, and of actTial rupture of these, renal disease is by far the most important, and whether such renal disease is a cause of the vascular changes or a merely associated condition, its presence is of the utmost importance as a means not only of diagnosis, but also in refei'ence to suggestive treatment. It should also be mentioned that the endarter- itis which is associated with syphilis may lead to ruj^ture of vessels. This seems to be the case p;irticularly in children who are the subjects of inherited syphilis, although no doul)t the acquired disease has also similar results. Yet it must be recognised that, as a rule, the eftect of endarteritis, as it occurs at all events in :icquired syphilis, is to lead to throm- bosis—to blocking of vessels rather than to their rupture. As to the excitiii;/ causes of cerebral h;emor- I rhage, sudden and severe exertion of any kind, especially if it be unusual, is one of the com- monest causes. Alcoholic over-indidgence has been immediately followed by the ru2:)ture of a cerebral vessel. It also has occurred during I straining at stool and under excitement. But i although all those factors have to be considered