ASEPTIC TREATMENT OF WOUNDS 295 bacterium. The infection probably came from the air in both instances. It is, however, impracticable in surgical practice to use steam on every occasion. There- fore, boiling water, or water to which 1 per cent of washing-soda has been added, is used for towels, utensils, drainage-tubes, and instruments. The washing-soda (1 drachm to the pint) removes grease and albumen, and by raising the temperature of the water renders it a most efficient disinfectant. It also lielps to prevent oxidation. An immersion of thirty minutes is required to ensure sterility. Boiling oil and glycerine have also been used for the disinfec- tion of instruments (Miguel and Tripier). Boil- ing water and washing-soda can be obtained in every dwelling. Instruments endure a great deal of boiling if they are properlj' plated with nickel. Knives must have metal handles, and the blades should be protected lest they become gapped and blunted during ebullition. It is safer not to use the same instruments for more than one operation. After use they ought to be thoroughly scrubbed with soap and water, ready for disinfection. It is convenient to have scissors and pressure forceps with joints which allow the two halves to come apart. I do not use bayonet-jointed instruments myself, l)ecause 1 have often seen them come apart during operations, and within the abdomen. The aseptic instruments are placed at once ni 2 per cent carbolic lotion. The surgeon takes them out of this, uses them, and puts them back again. It is a sign of ineptitude when instruments are promiscuously sijuandercd over towels, undisinfected garments, or tables. For emergency operations, the utensils may be scrubbed with soap and water, and flamed with alcohol. The perfection of some instrunients would hi- greatly impaired by the violent expansion and contraction caused l)y boiling. Lithotrites, urethrameters, urethratomes, endoscopes should be washed and scrubbed scrupulously clean with hot water and soap, and the various parts thoroughly wiped over with a little pure car- bolic acid, or immersed in a dish of pure car- bolic acid. Tliis may require to be slightly warmed, or mixed with a small proportion of water or glycerine to keep it li(juid. The car- bolic acid is washed off with 2 per cent carbolic lotion, and the instrument dried with a sterilised towel, and oiled with a little sterilised olive oil. Catheters and sounds should be made of material which can be sterilised by heat. Olivary bougies, bullet - headed bougies, and gum-elastic catheters would be desti'oycd by such treatment. All danger of infection is obviated by using neu^ instruments with per- fectly smooth and polished surfaces. These should be soaked in sublimate or biniodide of mercury lotion, and lubricated with glycerine or sterilised oil. It is not necessary to add chemicals to oil or glycerine, because the mixture is inert. The instruments used in ophthalmic surgery require most delicate handling. M'Gillivray says that new instruments, and instruments that have been used for aseptic cases, bear boiling for two and a half minutes in 1 per cent solution of soda. They are then dried with a sterilised cloth and stored in aseptic boxes in an air-tight cabinet. Before use they are again immersed for two and a half minutes in boiling water. This amounts to Tyndall's " intermit- tent sterilisation." Bacteriological tests show that instruments treated in this way are sterile. Hypodermic syringes ought to be made with asbestos or metal plugs, so as to be disinfected either by dry heat or by boiling. Usually the needle and syringe are boiled in a test-tube. Hypodermic solutions ought to be sterile. They are safest when made with tabloids and steri- lised water. The skin ought to be disinfected with biniodide of mercury and spirit lotion (1 in 500) before the injection. This applies to subcutaneous, intravenous, and intramuscular injections. Disinfection of ligatures and stitures.—Twisted or plaited silk are favourite iiiaterials for sutures. The stoving and bleaching which the silk undergoes in the process of manufacture are well calculated to render it sterile. Absolute certainty is easily attained by boiling the silk in water for not less than twenty minutes. It is convenient to wind the silk upon a glass reel, and care should be taken not to have too great a bulk, lest the heat fail to penetrate. It is not necessary to use carbolic lotion. The carbolic acid is merely evaporated by the heat. House- surgeons and others often commit the bhuider of putting the silk into the soda solution along with the instruments. The alkali removes some part of the silk and renders it rotten. After the silk has been sterilised it is kept in 5 per cent carbolic lotion, and never touched except with sterilised fingers or instruments. Silk treated in this manner was sterile on forty consecutive occasions. Silkworm gut or fisliing-gut is jieculiarly well ada])ted for suturing wounds. It is especially useful in operations for tlie repair of hare-lip, cleft-palate, or ruptured perineum. It bears heat well, and is only made more supple and tough by soaking in carbolic lotion. It is there- fore stei'ilised the same as twisted silk by being- boiled in water for not less than twenty minutes, being subsequently kept in 5 per cent carbolic lotion. Fishing-gut treated in this manner was sterile thirty-five times in thirty- seven. It is clearly rather difficult to disinfect. Catgut is very difficult to disinfect and rather unreliable. I have seen recurrent ha?morrhage more tlian once in cases in which it has lieen used for ligatures. But for circumcision, plastic