135 ANEMIA, PERNICIOUS inuHt make us careful in pronouncing a case cured, and careful too in drawing conclusions from isolated cases as to the ros^dts of treat- ment. As regards the elements of prognosis to lie derived from examination of the blood, Caljot has a useful table, wiiich I reproduce :— Severe [rapidly fatal) 1. Extreme progressive anfemia. 2. High colour-index. 3. Increase in size of red cells. 4. Degenerative changes in red cells. 5. Numerous megaloblasts. 6. Few or no normoblasts. 7. Lymphocytosis. Less severe {slower course) 1. Remissions. 2. Normal or low colour-index. 3. Normal-sized or small cells. 4. No degenerative changes. 5. Numerous normoblasts. 6. Few megaloblasts. 7. Normal percentage of polymorphonuclear cells. Of these the most important are, in my opinion, the first, second, fifth, and last. Morbid Anatojiy Post - mortem Appearances. — The pallor, oedema, petechite, etc., have already been de- scribed. Thesubcutaneousfat is usually increased in amount, and is often of a much deeper yellow tiian normal. The muscles are atrophied ; pale, normal, or deep-red in colour in different cases. There is obviously little blood in the body, it is pale and watery, the serum sometimes stained with htemogloliin. The heart is often enlarged, and the cavities dilated. The epicardial fat is large in amount, and the muscle is soft, friable, and shows marked fatty degeneration. Tliis is not usually uniforndy distributed, but occurs in patches, giving rise to the " tabby-cat stria- tion." The l)lood-clots in the heart are small and light in colour, or altogether absent. The aorta and large vessels may show fatty jaatches, and these have been found also in the smaller vessels. The huigs are often oedematous, but show no other constant change. The stomach is pale, and the walls may be greatly thinned, while the ruga; are nearly obliterated, or tlie walls may be thickened and hard with prominent rugic. Microscopically examined, the mucous membrane always shows signs of degeneration, differing in amount in different cases. Tlie glands may be shorter than normal, and their epitlielium shows fatty degeneration with dis- appearance of the oxyntic cells, and in extreme cases the glands may have disappeared alto- gether, and tlie stomach be lined simply by a flattened epithelium. Along with this epithelial degeneration tliere is more or less increase of connective tissue. The cirrhosis may be con- fined to the submucosa, or may involve the mucosa as well, and cause distortion of the remaining glands. Similar appearances are often fotuid in lioth tiie small and large intestines. The villi are short, the Lieberklihnian crypts in both intestines also sliortened, and with degenei-a- tive changes in their epithelium, and there aie usually very few leucocytes to be found in tiie mucosa; the connective tissue is also often increased. The liver is usually large, fattily degenerated, and if the cut surface or sections be treated with ferrocyanide of potassium and hydrochloric acid a blue coloration appears which is evidence of the presence of large quantities of iron loosely combined in the cells of the outer and middle zones of the lobides. The iron is accumulated in granidar masses on the side of the cell next the bile capillaries, not next the blood capillaries. The amount of iron present in the liver is sometimes ten times the normal, a proportion which is never approached in any other anaemic condition. The spleen varies much in size and appearance, but shows no constant change of importance beyond the presence of an unusual amount of iron-contain- ing pigment. The lymphatic glands are small, and I have several times found the mesenteric glands almost completely converted into fat. The kidneys are usually large and pale ; tlie epithelium is generally fatty, and may contain a varying amount of iron. The brain is almost always veiy pale, ljut may show capillary h;emorrhages occasionally. In the sjnnal cord there is often marked degeneration and sclerosis in the posterior median columns, or the wliole of the posterior columns, and sometimes also the posterior part of the lateral columns. These changes are generally most marked in the cervical region, and the grey matter and nerve roots are not affected. The bone-marrow pre- sents very striking alterations. The fatty mari'ow in the centre of the long bones is replaced by red marrow, and when this is ex- amined microscopically it is found to contain numerous poikilocytes, relatively few leucocytes, and great numbers of nucleated red corpuscles. A similar change is found in the aiuemia result- ing from hfemorrhage, for instance, but tlicre the nucleated corpuscles are normoblasts; in pernicious ansemia a large proportion are megaloblasts. Ehrlich maintains that tliis is a reversion to the emliryonic type of blood forma- tion, and this preponderance of megaloblasts in the bone-marrow explains their presence in tlie blood in greater numbers than the nornublasts, and explains also the relatively large size of the red corpuscles formed from them. Tlie clianges in the marrow are of course regenerative ; but the megaloblastic type is a very unsatisfactory kind of lilood-regeneration, because it is much slower than the normoblastic, and because it produces large red corpuscles, whose respiratory