67 ADRENAL GLANDS anaemia may in carcinoma of the stomacli. But in such a case the patient is really suffering from two morbid entities, malignant disease and Addison's disease. It is not to be wondered at, therefore, that these cases do not run the ordi- nary chronic course of Addison's disease. Sometimes both the glands are extensively infiltrated with secondary growth, and yet no symptoms have been set up; occasionally in tuberculosis the same thing is seen. Such cases are at first sight somewhat ditRcult to explain, but it is probable that the patients have died of the primary disease before secondary symptoms due to the secondary adrenal changes have had time to develop. Symptoms suggesting Addison's disease have more often been noticed iis a result of secondary growths in the adrenal bodies than in primary malignant disease of the organs; probably be- cause primary growths are not only rarer, but rather less likely to involve both glands. Still, some of the characteristic symptoms have been observed in primary malignant disease of the adrenal bodies. 5. Li a very few cases symptoms thought to correspond to those of Addison's disease have been found associated with the presence of ex- travasation of hJood into the sul)stance of the organs. 6. In 12 per cent of the eases of Addison's disease the adrenal bodies have been foimd to be normal. In some of tiiese the parts in the neighbourhood have been invaded by lymph- adenomatous or other growth, surrovmded by adhesions or exposed to pressure. Under such conditions the nerve-fibres of the solar plexus and the semilunar ganglia may be irritated or destroyed, while the veins and efferent lym- phatics of the adrenal bodies may also be com- pressed and the passage of fluid through them interfered with. Those cases resembling Addison's disease, where after death the adrenal bodies and all the neighbouring structures are described as quite normal, are difhcnlt to explain. It may be suggested that though anatomically normal the glands were functionally inadequate, or that the diagnosis of Addison's disease was open to doubt. The Conditiox of the Sympathetic Nerves AND Ganglia in the immediate neighbourhood of the adrenal bodies in cases of Addison's disease has naturally attracted mnch attention, since it has been widely held that the symptoms of the disease were due to irritation of, and sub- sequently the degeneration of, the semilunar ganglia and branches of solar plexns, and thus only indirectly to the lesions in the adrenal glands. To the naked eye the semilunar ganglia and solar plexus may, on careful dissection, be found to be enclosed in dense fibrous adhesions, and the nerves running into the fibrous mass to be thickened. On the other hand, as in cases of simple atrophy of the adrenal glands, the nerve ganglia and fibres may appear absolutely healthy. The results of microscopic examination on this point are not harmonious ; in a minority the sympathetic is found to be normal, while in the majority changes have been described. But it is important to remember that many of these changes correspond with what is normally seen in the semilunar ganglia of adult human beings. A microscopic examination should always be made at the same time of the semilunar ganglia of another person of the same age, and the sections of the two compared. It may be safely said that the conditions of the semilunar ganglia and adjacent sympathetic nerves in Addison's disease are so inconstant that the changes described in them cannot Ije regarded as causal factors in the manifestation of the disease. Other ANATOiMiCAL Changes. — Besides primary tuberculosis elsewhere in the body, especially in the lungs, the mesenteric and retro-peritoneal glands may lie tuberculous. The lymphoid follicles at the pyloric end of the stomach may be unduly prominent, and occasionally, by breaking down, may give rise to small ulcers in the mucosa. The lymphoid follicles in the intestine may also be exag- gerated. The spleen is sometimes enlarged and softened, suggesting some toxic condition ; this enlarge- ment, however, is not constant, and hence it is probably the result of a terminal infection, such as so commonly proves fatal to patients with chronic disease. The thymus gland is sometimes persistent and enlarged ; this may l)e a mere coincidence, but it is interesting to note that it is enlarged in exophthalmic goitre, sometimes in myx- oedema, cretinism and acromegaly—diseases of other "ductless glands." Pigmentation of the peritoneum and even of the intestinal mucosa has been met with in exceptional instances, but is probably due to cured tuberculous inflammation that has left no other evidence of its existence, and is not analogous with the pigmentation of other parts of the body. A few isolated reports of a softened condition of the brain and of degeneration in the spinal cord have been published, but no importance can be attached to them until more ample observations are forthcoming; they may have been merely accidental. The heart is flabby, pale, and may be atrophied. Thus in a woman, aged twenty-eight, who died of the disease, it weighed only 4| ounces. Pathology.—The relation between the mot- bid lesions in and about the adrenal bodies on the one hand, and the manifestations of the disease on the other, is a subject of great theo- retical interest. Space does not allow of a full discussion of the problems, and I may perhaps