243 APHTHA (3) aphthte tropicfu, sprue ('/."•). IS''e Foot AND Mouth Disease ; Lung, Tuberculosis of {Complications) ; Measles {Cmnpluxitions). Aphthaco - Gastro - Enteritis Tropica. .sVr Si'uuk. Apiol.—(I) A non-volatile oil obtained from the seeds of pai'sley, believed to act as an emraenagogue; (2) a suljstance derived from Petroselinmn satii'um and used in dysmeiiorrlnea. Aplasia.—Defective or delayed formation of a pai-t of tiu' body. ApneumatOSiS. —■ Atelectasis ; defec- tive inllatidii and expansion of the lungs. See Asphyxia ; Medicine, Forensic (Infanticide). Apnoea. See Asphyxia ; Respirai'ion. ApoCOdeine.—An alkaloid with pro- perties like tiiose of codeine, from which it is obtained ]>y the action of zinc chloride. See Opium. ApoliinariS.—An alkaline mineral water, oljtained in lihenisii Prussia. See Mineral AVaters. Apolysin.—An antipyretic and analgesic medicine (laonoparaphenatidin-citric acid), used in doses of from 5 to 30 grains. Apomorphine (see Alkaloids; Opium; PiiARJiAcoLouY).—Apomorphine, made by heat- ing morphine hydrochloride with liydrochloric acid, occurs as small greyish needles, soluble 1 in 50 of cold watei-. Dose—oV'tV O^JP'^' dermically); yV " 1 S^'- i^^J tlie mouth). Prepara- tion—Injectio Apomorphina) Hypodermica 1 per cent. It must be freshly prepared. Dose— 5-10 m. Apomorphine is the most ])owerful emetic we possess. It is prompt and certain, acting solely on the vomiting centre in the medulla. In cases of poisoning it is the best emetic to employ, and should be given hypo- dermically in full doses. It neither irritates the stomach nor causes depres.sion. It may also be given by the mouth in chronic bronchitis with dry irritating cough. It moistens the bronchial secretion and facilitates the expectoration of viscid nnicus. Apoplexy. See Alcoholism (Acute, Diaijiidsis) ; Arteries, Diseases of ; 13rain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Cerehral Hcemor- rharje); Brain, Tumours of ; Hemiplegia ; In- .SANiTY (Etiological Varieties); Lungs, Vascular Disorders (Pulmonary Embolism); Myasthenia Gravis {Diagnosis); Nephritis ; Sunstroke ; Unconsciousness. ApoStoii's Treatment. See Elec- tricity ; Uterus, AoN-MALHiNANr Tumours {Electrolysis in Fibroids). Appendectomy and Appen- dicectomy. See Appendicitis (Treatment, Operati vc). Appendicitis. Introduction ...... 24.'! Anatomy—Descriptive and Minute . 244 ^'Etiology . . . . . .244 Micro-Organisms .... 245 Morbid Anatomy ..... 245 Results of Infection by Micro-Organ- isms with General Symptoms . 246 Formation and Results of Abscess . 247 Clinical Types of Appendicitis, with Description of Various Symptoms . 247 Palpation of the Appendix . . . 248 Progress of the Case .... 248 Recurrent or Relapsing Appendicitis . 249 Diagnosis ...... 249 Prognosis ...... 250 Treatment ...... 250 Appendicitis CoMPLicATiN<i Pregnancy . 254 See also Broad Ligament, Diseases of ; Colic ; Hip-Joint, Diseases of (Diaf/nosis) ; Hysteria ; Kidney, Surgical Affections of (Perinephritis); Leucocytosis ; Liver, Abscess OP the ; Peritoneum, Acute Peritonitis ; Pneumonia (Diagnosis); Post-mortem Methods ; Rheumatism, Acute ; Stomach, Surgical (Per- forating Ulcer of Duodenum) ; Tetany ; Trades, Dangerous (Lead Poisoning); Typhoid P'ever (Complications). The term appendicitis is one which, originating in America, is now applied to all those affections which are comprised under tlic names of typ//- litis, peri-tyjJditi.% epi-typhlitis, para-typhlitis, etc. All have their origin in the appendix, and it is very questionable whether a case of in- flammation about the Ccecum, not due to tuber- culous or cancerous disease, ever occurs without being secondary to disease of the appendix. Typhlitis, as a disease j^er se, that is, originat- ing in the cfecum, does not occur except very rarely ; I myself have never seen such a case. Some thought, until quite recently, that ster- coral cajcitis was exceedingly common, and now most people doubt whether it ever existed, and it is unknown to pathologists. In m3^ long experience I have never yet seen at a post- mortem, in the dissecting - I'oom, or at an abdominal operation, such a thing as impaction of fiieces in the ca?cum, or even a loaded csecum. Occasionally small scybalous masses may be felt moving freely about, and li(juid faeces may be occasionally met with, but unless there is some obstruction of the bowel lower down, from malignant or other disease, the caecum is nearly always empty. Impaction of fajces in the cajcum has been recognised by clinicians, never by pathologists or abdominal surgeons. Again, as Hawkins remarks, if fajcal impaction ever