ACTINOMYCOSIS 54 that the chief source of infection must be found in infected grasses, and more specially in those of the genus Hordeum. There are very few cases indicating the possibility of contagion from cattle to cattle or from cattle to man. There is no evidence to show the occurrence of infection through the meat of diseased animals. The mamma may becotoe aflected in the human siibject, in cattle, and in swine, and it has been surmised that the disease might be conveyed by milk, but there has been no record of cases showing that this form of infection had ever occurred. There is no evidence to show that the disease has ever been inherited. Experimental Actinomycosis.—Experimentally the inoculability of the disease has been fully demonstrated. Actinomycotic pus obtained from human cases has been found to cause actinomycosis when in- troduced into the peritoneal cavity of rabbits, guinea-pigs, and calves. The guinea-pig and the calf are more readily infected than the rabbit; carnivora are generally refractory. Transmissibility from cattle to cattle by in- oculation has been demonstrated by Johne and by Ponfick. Wolff and Israel have shown that cultures of the actinomyces grown outside the body may produce the disease when inoculated into the peritoneum of rabbits and guinea-pigs. Occurrence and Prevalence—Geographical dis- tribution.—Both in man and in the lower animals the disease seems to be most prevalent in Germany, Austria, Italy, Russia, and North America. Cattle are also frequently affected in certain parts of England. Actinomycosis has also been observed in France, Belgium, Holland, Australia, etc. Distribution in the Animal Kingdom.—Bovidse seem to be most liable to the disease. The statistics from various abattoirs on the Con- tinent show that the proportion of cattle affected varies from 0"01 per cent to 2 per cent. In some herds in England 8 per cent of the animals have been found affected with various forms of actinomycosis (Crookshank). Swine and horses are also liable, but less than cattle. Cases have occurred in elephants, sheep, and even the dog (one case), but, generally speaking, so far as we know, the carnivora are practically immune. In man the disease is comparatively rare, but it is not without practical importance. In the thirteen years from 1879 to 1892, about 450 cases have been published, and most of these have been recorded from 1886 to 1892. Influence of sex and age.—Males are affected in the proportion of 73 and females of 27 per cent. The disease is most common between the ages of twenty and thirty, rare before ten and after sixty, but it may occur at any age. Influence of occupation.—There is apparently no class or occupation free from liability, but about 75 per cent of the recorded cases have been in persons who by their occupation had to deal more or less directly with cereals, e.g. farmers, labourers, peasants, coachmen, grooms, millers, etc. Treatment.—Various methods have been used, such as counter-irritation, mercury, arsenic, tuberculin, and other bacterial products, but iodide of potassium seems to be the only drug which should be relied upon; it seems, in fact, to have quite a specific action. The favourable results obtained by Thomassen have since been confirmed by Nocard, Ransom, M'Fadyean, and others. The dose for man is 30 to 60 grains daily (for cattle the dose is four times larger). Actinotherapy. The employment of rays of light in therapeutics. See X-Rays. ActOl. Lactate of silver. ACU preSSU re. ^S^eehaemorrhage, Treat- ment OF. Acupuncture. — The treatment of nervous affections (neuralgia, sciatica, lumbago) and of aneurysm (rarely) by the introduction of fine needles into the tissues; not often employed at the present time. Acute.— The antonym of chronic; sharp, severe. See Bone, Diseases of ; Bronchitis ; Gastro - Intestinal Disorders ; Intestines, Diseases of ; Joints, Diseases of ; Liver {Acute Yellow Atrophy); Nephritis ; Orchitis ; etc. AcyesiS.—sterility in the female. Adder Bite. See Snake-Bite in the British Isles. Addison's Disease. See Adrenal Glands ; Adrenalin. Addison's Keloid. See Sclerodermia. Adductor-Jerk.—Contraction of the adductor muscles of the thigh. See Tendon- Jerks. Adenase.—A supposed enzyme convert- ing adenin into hypoxanthin. Adenasthenia. — Deficient glandular activity. Adenia. See Lymphatic System (Z^/m^oA- adenoma). Adenin.—A crystalline alkaloid (C^H^Nj) obtained from the pancreas and spleen ; amino- purin. See Liver, Physiology of; and Gout. Adenitis. See Lymphatic System, Physio- logy AND Pathology. Adenocarcinoma.—Adenoid cancer. See Tumours {Epithelial Group).