157 ANESTHETICS—A.C.E. MIXTUKE mask, the anaesthetic being spilt on from a drop bottle. I have foiuid Allis's open inhaler very useful for this mixture. The dangers of the A.C.E. mixture are those incident to chloroform, although they are lessened by the dilution of that ingredient in the mixture. The A.C.E. mixture is taken easily by chil- dren, and is convenient for use in parturition. It should be given to the patient only in the supine position, and well diluted with air. No apparatus is necessary, but the employment of one of those mentioned above prevents waste, and enables the administrator to control the supply according to the requirements of the case. It is a useful plan, if nitrous oxide gas is not available, to connnence with the A.C.E. mixture from a cone or Skinner's mask, and as soon as excitement appears continue and main- tain the anaesthesia with ether from a Clover's or Ormsby's ether-inhaler. Any duskiness shows the dilution of the vapour is insufficient. Deaths under this mixtuix' have been imputed both to jiriniary syncope and to neuroparesis from poisoning of the centres in the medulla oblongata. Various other jiixtukes of ether and chloro- form have been proposed and found favour in some cliniques. Their behaviour depends upon the proportion of chloroform present in them. Thus— Vienna mixture—6 parts of ether to 2 of chloro- form, or, in hot weather, 8 parts of ether to 1 of chloroform are used. Richardson's mixture—2 of chloroform, 2 of alcohol, and 3 of etber. Dr. Schleich (Berlin) has introduced mixtures of sulphuric ether, petroleum ether, and chloro- form in the following proportions :— (Slight anii'sthesia). Parts. II. III. (Mediuin). (Deep). Parts. Parts. Sulphuric ether . ISO Petroleum ether . 15 Chloroform. . 45 Boiling-point . .38° C. 150 15 45 40° C. 80 15 30 42° C. His view is th.it by giving a mixture, the boiling-point of which is nearly the temperature of the body, its inspiration is easily achieved, and it I;rapidly leaves the body without produc- ing any deleterious effects. The theoretical views have not, however, been altogether sup- ported by clinical experience. Schleich used the mixture from an Esmarch's mask. No. I. is suggested for light transient anaesthesia in the case of minor surgery, II. when a medium or somewhat deeper anaesthesia is deemed neces- sary, and III. when profound surgical anaes- thesia is required. Schleich claims that no unpleasant complications or after-effects have attended the use of his mixtures, but a some- what extended employment of them in some of the hospitals in the United States has not wholly borne out his contention. Nitrous Oxide Gas.—This anaesthetic is valu- able for short operations about the mouth, giving a period of anaesthesia of from twenty to forty seconds in duration, when, however, the face mask can be taken off" the face, and reapplied from time to time, or when the nitrous oxide is mixed with air or oxygen a more prolonged period of aiuesthesia may be obtained, limited indeed only by the amount of gas procurable. Eor very lengthy operations the cost of the material and the difficulty of conveying large numbers of the steel bottles in which the gas is kept renders its use inadvisable. Gas mixed with air or oxygen has been used for operations for the relief of empyema thoracis, for radical cure of hernia, and many other major operations. There is more muscular rigidity than in the case of ether or chloroform, but it is alleged the after-affects are slight. Gas may be given from a gasometer or from steel cylinders in which it is compressed into a liquid. Upon turning the screw tap closing the cylinder the pressure is removed, and the liquid at once becomes gasiform. The gas is made t<> travel along a tube into the Catling's bag, whicii has a capacity of two gallons, and is respired from this bag by the patient through an accu- rately fixing face-mask. It is possible to give nitrous oxide by the " open method " in cases in which patients are terrified by a closely applied mask. Flux's ^ plan is to tuck a towel below the chin and back to the ears and up to the level of the eyes, taking care that close apposi- tion takes place all round the lower part of the face. Gas is then allowed to fall down from the delivery tube of the gas apparatus into the space between the towel and the face. As the gas is heavier than air it sinks, displacing the air, and the patient inspires it quietly. Flux has devised celluloid masks which rejjlace the towel. The open method, although very suc- cessful in some cases, does not, in my opinion, ensure so perfect or deep an anaesthesia as when a mask fitting tightly on the face is employed. The signs of anaesthesia mider gas are, slow regular respiration, stertorous breathing, and spasmodic twitching of the muscles. Slight dilatation of the pupils and fixation of the ocular globes occur in full anaesthesia, phenomena which are best seen when the gas is given combined with air or oxygen. It is, however, always wise to give air intermittently with nitrous oxide gas to avoid asphyxial complications. This can be done by admitting air when muscular jactita- tion commences by opening the air inlet valve or lifting the face-piece for one inspiration. When Hewitt's-method of giving nitrous oxide with oxygen is employed a special apparatus devised by him is requisite. It consists of a bag- divided into two, each half being connected by tubes respectively with the nitrous oxide or oxygen supply. The gases are allowed to mingle 1 Lancet, 4th Feb. 1899.