ALCOHOLISM 10.3 likely sources of relapse should be controlled— letters inspected on being opened by tiie patient, clothes and luggage searched, private interviews with friends or strangers forbidden. Having disposed of the patient somewhere where treatment can be furthered, there are certain measures which can be carried out with advantage in nearly all cases. Tiiese are de- signed to promote recuperation in the cortical mechanisms and in other organs, and are simply a general plan of hygiene. Metabolism should be increased and excretion pushed by as much open-air exercise of an interesting kind as will just not unduly fatigue, by a somewhat generous diet which is not rich and which is less than usually nitrogenous, l)y large quantities of liquid, by daily warm baths, and if necessary by drugs which help the excretory processes. At the same time tonic treatment must be carried out. Hours of food and of sleep must be regular. The heart must be watched and its action assisted if necessary. Frequently antemia must be combated, and the nervous system must be toned up by the usual nerve tonics. It is too often forgotten that sensory stimuli of all sorts which do not approach severity of shock, and which do not exhaust by being unduly pro- longed or too massive, are the natural tonics of the cortex—cold showers, skin friction, and the manifold energies of bright and open surround- ings. All such measures can hardly be applied without a special attendant or companion. It is futile to hand an alcoliolic over to a man or woman whose time is almost fully occupied in necessary business or domestic details. Particular.—Special symptoms call for special treatment in alcoholism as in other diseases, indeed, it is a disease in which it is no disparage- ment to confess that we are treating symptoms. There is no possibility of directly treating the lesion which is the organic basis of the com- \ plaint. At the same time a great deal is done to promote recuperation if we carry out the sug- gestions just concluded. Space forljids that we should consider each symptom in detail. It is only possible to consider those which usually offer the most serious difficulty. In breaking the alcoholic habit—and that is a necessary step whatever the complications may be — the question nearly always arises as to whether it should be done suddenly or gradu- ally. A considerable body of opinion, especially in America, condemns the abrupt method. Per- haps the American constitution is not suited to it. In this country evil consequences are un- j common. We need, therefore, have no liesita- ; tion in recommending an abrupt withdrawal of alcohol in every case in whicii there is no col- lapse. Only, we must watch the patient very closely for the forty-eight hours immediately following. Even if the pulse should fail, or if a nervous depression lie imminent, these can usually be met withoiit resorting to alcohol. Digitalis, strychnin, caffein, and otiier stimulants are then of great value. But under no circum- stances should the patient be told what is being administered. That injunction applies to tlic whole of the drug treatment of alcoholism. To treat the volitional defect which has been occa- sioned by the alcoholic habit it is convenient to have regard to two aspects of volition — disci- pline and incentive. In the first instance the whole life of the patient must be methodically ordered. He must keep quite regular hours, and the conventional rules of dress, manner, and general conduct must be strongly insisted on. When the patient has recovered from the inuuc- diate effects of alcohol this regime must be particularised. A time-table of occupation should be given to the patient, and he should be made to carry it out however great his disincli- nation. It is the character of alcoholism that the patient does not do what he has deliberately resolved to do. The further stage refers to the development of incentive. Wliat that may be depends largely upon the individual. But obviously it is not enough simply to develop a I disciplined character in the patient. For ex- ample, it is the disaVjility of treatment in an asylum or retreat that the later requirement cannot easily be met. We must leave it to the clergyman, or to a relative, or to the inspiration of a public life to teach oia- patient some large interest which will be at once an impulse and a conscience. A very great value lies in the power which attaches to a personal influence. For nearly every alcoholic some one can be found who will exercise a profound and effective influ- ence over him. That person is often not of the patient's household. In many cases some kind of suggestion is vahiable. I have known a case in which the surreptitious introduction of per- manganate of potash into the patient's urine and vomit effected a saving fear of internal hfemorrhage. Not a few cases have been suc- cessfully treated by graduated injections of apo- morphia, wliicli are made to appear to induce a sickness which only follows upon drinking. A great future in my opinion lies before hypnotism in the treatment of alcoholism. It has a thera- peutic value which is not sufficiently utilised by the physician who is not a specialist. Some cases are amenable to hypnotic treatment to a remarkable degree, and, after the first experience of it, are really "cured." When the memory is impaired it is wise to educate it specially by ajipropriate exercises, and in particular to teacli the patient to observe carefully, and if necessary to take a note of facts until he discovers what things he is most likely to forget, and then to devise an effective reminder. Sleeplessness is often a troublesome symptom. Paraldehyde is very useful, but patients are extremely apt to develop a paraldehyde habit. That indeed applies to all sedatives. But it is especially true of drugs which have a pronoiuiced taste or