76 AGLAUKOPSIA Agrlaukopsia. See Colour Vision {Green-blindness). Ag'lobulia.—A decrease in the number of red cells in the blood, with an increase in the quantity of serum. Ag'tOSSia.—Absence of the tongue. See Tongue {Malformations). Ag^na.thy.—Absence of the lower jaw with approximation of the external ears; otocephaly. See Teratology. Ag'Ony.—The struggle sometimes preced- ing death ; intense bodily or mental suffering. See Post-mortem Methods {Agonal Intussuscep- tion). Agoramania.—The impulse to take to the open fields. See Insanity. AgfOraphobia.—The fear or horror of open spaces. See Hynoptism ; Insanity ; and Neurasthenia. AgrafFe.—An instrument for holding the edges of the wound together, e.g. in hare-lip operations, in episiorrhaphy, perineorrhaphy, etc. Agraphia.—A defect in the power of writing words or letters. See Aphasia and Hemiplegia. Agropyrum. —The dried rhizome of Triticum (couch - grass); used in the form of decoction or liquid extract, as a urinary sedative in cystitis and gonorrhoea. Agrypnia.—Sleeplessness. Ague. See Malaria and Spleen {Ague- cake). AgU ri n. — Theobromino - sodii acetas ; a diviretic resembling diuretin in its action, but it may cause renal irritation (casts). Ahiolo. See Balneology {Turkey). Ainhuin.—Definition.—A chronic morbid process confined to the toes and ultimately resulting in the spontaneous amputation of the affected part by constriction. Geographical Distribution.—Ainhum (a negro word signifying "to saw"), on its first recogni- tion by Da Silva Lima in 1866, was supposed to be peculiar to the negroes of Brazil. It is now known to have a much wider range, both racial and geographical, being found among Polynesians, Mongolians, Semitic races, and Asiatic Aryans. Cases have been reported from India (Lower Bengal, Orissa, Madras), Ceylon (Colombo), China (Swatow), the South Sea Islands (?), British Guiana, the southern states of the American Union, Trinidad, Madagascar (Nossi-Be), the West Coast of Africa (especially among Kroo- men), the Transvaal, Algeria, Egypt, and Syria. Our knowledge of the geographical range of ainhum is still very imperfect, and is still further obscured by the chronicity and latency of the disease, which, in consequence, may develop or be seen at a place far from the endemic area in which it was originally acquired. In some dis- tricts it is fairly common; whilst elsewhere over the vast endemic area it is but sparingly scattered. Apparently it is most prevalent in the coast regions. We know nothing positive as to the influence of climatic conditions in the production of ainhum. It appears to be more frequent in males than in females, in adults than in children ; neverthe- less, it attacks women, and occasionally has been seen in the very young. Da Silva Lima thought ainhum had a tendency to run in families, and records instances in which several members of the same family were affected; how far this was owing to a common exposure to certain local conditions, or how far it may have depended on a common family susceptibility, it is impossible to say. Guyot described a case of what he calls congenital ainhum ; most probably it was an instance of some form of congenital deformity. Symptoms.—Ainhum usually commences as a chap at the inner angle of the digito-plantar fold of the little toe. The chap gradually extends as a slowly deepening furrow, until, surrounding the base of the toe, the two extremities of the furrow meet on the dorsal or, rather, outer surface of the member. The distal part of the toe swells, becoming round or ovoid, and looking as if the part had been constricted by a string tied tightly round the proximal end. The toe assumes a lipomatous consistency, the phalanges becoming absorbed. As a rule, the bottom of the groove is not ulcerated, but is covered by a thick layer of epidermic scales which, when removed, may disclose a somewhat raw but, usually, non-bleeding surface. Injury or neglect may lead to suppuration and ulceration at the bottom of the furrow, in which case there will be inflammatory redness, swelling, and much pain. In time the pedicle becomes so slender that it allows the swollen toe to dangle about and get in the way in walking, thereby causing pain and inconvenience. The patient then generally chops it off. The resulting wound rapidly cicatrises. The little toe is the one usually affected, but the others may be attacked, either together (rarely) or one after the other. The constriction generally passes through the first interphalangeal articulation, but it may affect the metatarso- phalangeal joint, or even the continuity of a phalanx. It never attacks the ungual phalanx or distal articulation. It may recur in the stump of a previously partially-amputated toe. One foot may be attacked after the other.