102 ALCOHOLISM a systematic form, are described by Bevan Lewis, who also selects the intermedio-lateral group and Clarke's vesicular column as the most frequent seat of cell degeneration. The posterior nerve- roots occasionally participate, but probably not by a spread from the periphei'al nerves. To summarise, we nuist take note chiefly of the wasting and disappearance of nerve-cells, with fatty and pigmentary degenerations, the arteritis and aneurysmal changes in the vessels, and the sclerosis of the subpial and fifth cell- layers. The pathological changes that may be present in the various viscera are referred to in the article "Alcohol," and also under their respective headings. Treatment of Alcoholism.—Social. — All authorities are agreed that the treatment of alcoliolism should be chiefly prophylactic. It therefore becomes the function of physicians to bring about a state of society in which the risk of incurring alcoholic diseases is minimised. That is as properly a part of public health as is the prevention of infectious disease. But apparently this is a subject which only a few can approach in a scientific spirit. Apathy on the one hand and fanaticism on the other charac- terise much of the literatiire \ipon the question. It is perhaps not within the province of medi- cine to attempt to revolutionise the habits of a whole nation; but it certainly is our function to interfere with conditions which make alco- holism almost a certainty to many. The moder- ate spirit of scientific physicians would approve that we should in the first instance direct our energies to the development of a popular opinion, and to the passing of laws, which have a distinct medical reference. For example, no one of authority denies the evil effect of impure drinks, and accordingly the faculty might insist that the sellers of alcoholic drink which contains in- gredients which are not supposed to be in it, and which are deleterious, should come under the same condemnation as those who publicly defraud or injure the commimity by adultera- tions of any other kind of food or drink. Spirits taken from bond, wines, and beers should be certified free from poison before being off"ered to the public. But to some individuals, notably children and dnmkards, any form of alcoholic drink is in the natiu-e of a poison. It therefore becomes the duty of the profession to devise means to prevent an indiscriminate supply of liquor to .such persons. It ought to be a crime to give alcohol habitually to children without medical advice, and such a practice should come within the Acts which relate to cruelty and neglect towards children. The only sure pre- ventive of continued indulgence by drunkards is compulsory detention in a home. The faculty has for long insisted that a measure to make that legal is a necessity. But perhaps we may arrive at it better by easy stages. The last Inebriate Act made it legal to detain those who, being habitual drunkards, commit grave crime, j or who are four times within a twelvemonth i convicted of petty drunken offences. A useful j measure would be one wliich would entitle the | bench to convict a person of habitual drunken- j ness on the evidence of medical and other wit- i nesses by private, or, if preferred, by public I trial, and thereupon to bind the patient over ■ under a caution to abstain from drink, and to report himself to the authorities periodically for a term. Failing compliance with such orders the patient might then be liable to compulsory detention ; and any one who had supplied liquor ■ knowingly to such an one should be liable to | fine or imprisonment. Such forms are sug- i gested, not because they are widely approved, I but because it seems proper that a work on ' general medicine should point out to the profes- i sion the kind of measures which it may be their j part to busy themselves with. At all events it should be recognised as a principle that our first \ duty as physicians is if possible to devise ; measures which are for the j^revention and 'I treatment of disease, but which do not interfere with the habits of the multitude who are not, and who are not likely to become, the sxibjects | of alcoholism. j Personal.—General.—The general treatment ■ of an alcoholic patient refers chiefly to the choice of a place where he will reside. If any possi bility offers to make it feasible to send him to a ' hospital or retreat, such a procedure is nearly always best. Although inebriate homes and J asylums can at the best only commence the ' patient's cure, discipline and certain sobriety can be there obtained which are very difficult if he remain at large. But if there are reasons why such a course cannot be followed, much i good is often obtained by boarding the patient with some one who will control him. Almost no case can be successfully treated at the i patient's own home. On the other hand, it is ' usiially difficult to find a house where one can be sure that treatment will be what one desires, j An out-of-door life is in my opinion essential for I simple alcoholism. 1 Where the case is complicated by paretic j symptoms a hospital method of treatment is ' essential; but even then the fresh - air plan I should be followed as much as possible. The I one necessity is that those in charge of the case I should be in a position to enforce the doctor's \ orders, and that they should conscientiously do so. It is often, for example, necessary to take I physical control of a patient, to restrain him ] perhaps by locking him into a room. As that ] is illegal, the person in charge must be pro- I tected, and it is the duty of the physician to see I that every emergency is provided for. Nothing j should be left only to the patient's good inten- , tion. The trustful policy at least in the early . stages of treatment is almost never proper. All