BRAIN, SURGERY OF 5U In case of tumour of the brain the tumour must be removed, or, where that is impossible, the removal of a large area of the skull, with opening of the dura, and the encouragement of a hernia of the brain, may be the only means to give relief. Where, as in meningitis with efltusion, the compression is general, and due to an increase in cerebro - spinal fluid, relief can often be afforded by draining the subarachnoid space or the lateral or fourth ventricles, or by drainage of the spinal canal by lumbar puncture or incision. The other general indications for treatment are to keep the patient quiet in a dark and cool room, to open the bowels with croton oil or enema, to look to the condition of the bladder, and, if necessary, use the catheter, and to keep the patient sustained by nutritive enemata. If cyanosis become very marked, free abstrac- tion of blood by venesection is advisable. Remember that death ultimately happens by failure of the respiration, and that it is possible by the use of artificial respiration to keep the patient alive for a considerable time, and so, possibly, to afford time for the performance of an operation for the relief of the compression. Inteacranial H.emorrhage Intracranial bleeding may be spontaneous or due to injury. In spontaneous hsemorrhage or apoplexy the bleeding usually comes from the lenticulo-striate artery. Occasionally aneurysms of the cerebral arteries may give way and cause haemorrhage, or vessels in close relation to tumours of the brain may be the source of the bleeding. In spontaneous haemorrhage the bleeding usually takes place into the substance of the brain or into the ventricles, is usually out of reach of the surgeon, and, except by ligature of the common carotid artery on the same side as the lesion in cases which are becoming progressively worse, little can be done. Traumatic intracranial haemorrhage may occur either between the dura mater and the bone (subcranial), between the dura mater and the cortex (subdural), or into the substance of the brain or cavity of the ventricles (cerebral or intraventricular). (1) Subcranial or Extradural Hjemorrhage. —This is the commonest variety of intracranial haemorrhage. In the large majority of cases the bleeding vessel is the middle meningeal artery. This vessel soon after its passage through the foramen spinosum divides into its anterior and posterior branches, and the bleeding point is usually either in the trunk of the vessel or in its anterior branch—the posterior branch being at fault only in about 7 per cent of the cases. The bleeding is usually caused by a fracture of the skull running through the anterior and lower part of the parietal bone, or by a spicule of inner table driven into the vessel; but occasionally bleeding from the middle meningeal artery or its branches may take place without any fracture, and may even happen on the side of the head opposite to the blow, in which case it is due to contre-coup. Traumatic haemorrhage may happen from wounds of the large sinuses of the brain, viz. the longitudinal, lateral, or cavernous, the last- named being probably the one most commonly damaged, as it lies in very close relation to the base of the skull, and is likely to be torn in basal fractures. The veins of the diploe and middle meningeal veins are occasionally the source of haemorrhage; and in very rare cases the internal carotid artery may be woimded by punctured wounds through the orbit, bullet wounds, or fractures of the base. When this happens ligature of the com- mon carotid is the only resource. Symptoms of Suhcr'anial Hmmorrhage.—These depend very much on the size and nature of vessel wounded. While the force of arterial bleeding is sufficient to strip the dura mater from the skull, and so make room for a large clot which may cavise symptoms of compression, the bleeding from a vein is more likely to be stopped by the resistance offered by the adhesion of the dura to the skull. Therefore large haemorrhages when they are extradural are usually from the middle meningeal arteries, and not from the sinuses. The injury which has caused the haemorrhage may or may not be sufficient to stun the patient and cause temporary imconsciousness. If it do so the patient usually recovers his senses, and there is a "lucid interval " before the symptoms of compression commence. This lucid interval is usually of some hours' duration, the time of the onset of compression symptoms depending on the size of the vessel wounded, and varying from an hour or two to two or three days. The patient, who is usually stunned by the accident, recovers consciousness, but in an hour or two, as the clot enlarges and presses on the brain, becomes drowsy and stupid; this state of matters steadily progresses until complete coma is reached. There is usually at first paralysis of that side of the body opposite the clot; and the pressure, which may at first be localised, for example, to the centres controlling the muscles of the face, may gradually extend up the Rolandic area, affecting in turn the centres for the arm and leg, and eventually may cause a general com- pression of the whole hemisphere, and later of the whole brain, and a resulting paralysis of both sides of the body. If the clot pass downwai'ds, as it frequently does, towards the base of the brain, the pupil of the eye on the same side as the clot dilates and ceases to react to light.