252 APPENDICITIS the wall of the abdomen should be made use of. I have now used M'Burney's incision, which is called the " criss-cross " or " gridiron " incision, in a great many cases', and have never yet seen a hernia result. It makes a perfectly safe wound, because at only the point of crossing of the two incisions is there any through com- munication between the skin and peritoneal cavity—no nerves or muscles are cut and no anaesthesia follows. It must be confessed, in cases where more room is needed owing to difficulties which have arisen, the incision has to be enlarged into a straight one, so that an ugly wound is the result; but the necessity for changing the incision in oi'dinary interval cases will not often arise. I have had to change the incision only once in two years ; the case did perfectly well, and no hernia resulted. Another objection which has been urged against this operation is the number of assistants required. Many other incisions are recommended—the oblique incision inside the anterior superior spine, beginning a little above the line drawn from the anterior superior spine to the umbilicus; of course such an incision may be enlarged up and down as required. After-Treatment.—The patient should be kept in bed and perfectly quiet for at least three weeks. For twelve hours after operation nothing should be taken into the stomach but occasional sips of hot water—an enema of soap-suds and turpentine (oj--Oj.) should be administered on the second day ; this usually gives great relief. If this is not effectual, salines should be given by the mouth. Liquid food may be taken on the second day, peptonised milk, or milk and lime-water, and afterwards milk, toast, etc., till finally, after the first week, the patient can eat almost anything. The dressing in these cases need not be removed till the sixth or seventh day, when stitches are removed. In the interval cases convalescence is rapid and uninterrupted. I never advise the wearing of a truss afterwards if the wound heals without suppuration. Operation in Acute Cases.—The indications for operation in acute cases have already been given. It is always better to operate if one is in doubt, for early operations are comparatively safe. I have never repented having operated too early, but have been sorry in many cases in my early experience that operation had been postponed to a period when it was too late. In acute cases, when we cannot tell before- hand whether or not pus is present, a direct incision through the abdominal walls is to be preferred. The incision should be made outside the edge of the right rectus muscle, commencing almost an inch above a line drawn from the umbilicus to the anterior superior spine of the ilium; the incision should be parallel to Pou- part's ligament, and about two inches internal to the anterior superior spine. Of course, if there be a tumour, the position of the incision may be changed to the most prominent part of the tumour. The writer has frequently opened the abdomen in the middle line with benefit on account of the situation of the tumour being more central than usual. In some cases also where the inflammatory swelling is higher up and more posterior, an incision is made more above the anterior sujjerior spine than below it. It is always well at first to make a small incision, having its centre opposite the spine, and then extend it upwards or downwards as occasion may require. Having cut through the abdominal wall and come down on the trans- versalis fascia and peritoneum, these should be divided, and now the inflammatory area, of which the appendix is the centre, should be searched for; but first, the general peritoneal cavity should be carefully protected by the introduction of sterilised gauze pads between the parietal peritoneum along the edge of the wound and that covering the intestines. When this has been carefully done, the inflammatory area should be examined; the adhesions, if operation has been performed early, are usually soft and easily separated, and soon a gush of stinking or sero-pus is seen welling up into the wound; this should be swabbed out with gauzes as soon as it appears and until it ceases—the gauzes, of course, should not be used again without being sterilised. Now the appendix is searched for, and is commonly seen lying in the abscess cavity ; it is usually en- larged, red, and inflamed, with a perforation, and perhaps gangrenous. The appendix can be easily separated with the finger, for the adhesions in which it is embedded are usually soft. It should be traced up to its attachment to the colon, and its mesentery should be tied off with a single ligature if not too broad—in sections, if broad. A ligature should now be placed around the appendix itself, one-eighth to one-quarter of an inch from the caecum, and treated as described in the interval operation. M'Burney recommends that the appendix should be cut off before a ligature is applied, and that a probe should always be passed into the csecum to show the patency of the stump, for in some cases he has seen an impervious stricture between the section and the cavity of the colon. In some cases there will be no perforation or gangrene and no pus, the inflamed appendix will easily be turned out of its bed of soft and easily broken-down adhesions ; in other cases, again, the distal end is so embedded in old inflammatory tissue that it cannot easily be shelled out with the finger—in such a case the csecal end should first be freed, and then the appendix dissected down from there to its apex. In some cases, again, the appendix is attached to intestine at the point of an old perforation, and the separation has to be undertaken with