BRAIN: CEREBELLUM, AFFECTIONS OF 526 of the organ either by way of the middle peduncle into the pons, to the surface, becoming subarachnoid, and spreading up imder the tentorium, or it may burst into the fourth ventricle. Sniall htemorrhages have usually been found in the region of the nucleus dentatus. It is exceptional to meet with a primary hccmor- rhage of the peduncles, although the middle peduncle may become involved in the way already described, or blood may extend for some distance along its fibres as a result of a h hemor- rhage in the pons. The branch which the superior cerebellar artery siipplies to the corpus dentatum is that which usually gives way, thovigh rupture of a branch of the posterior cerebral artery has been responsible for extra- vasation into the cerebellum. A cerebellar htemorrhage may cause rapid coma, terminating in death; but, on the other hand, premonitory symptoms have been known to commence as long as forty-eight hours before the definite evidence of onset. The most notable of these have been headache, giddiness, and turning of the head to one side. Headache is also a prominent symptom of the actual attack ; the pain is felt suddenly at the back of the head and neck. Oft - repeated vomiting is another symptom that occurs early, and which is very rarely absent, while vertigo is also com- mon. Rotation, which is an exceedingly rare symptom of cerebellar disease in man, has been met with more commonly as a symptom of hsemorrhage than of any other affection of the organ. The extravasation has been found in the middle or superior peduncle, or in one hemi- sphere, and the direction of rotation is said to have been fi-om right to left when the hsemor- rhage has been on the right side of the cere- bellum, and from left to right when it has been on the left side. In the absence of actual rota- tion there may be a fixed position towards the side of the lesion with the head turned to that side. In patients that have been able to walk, a reeling gait or a tendency to swerve to one side instead of preserving a straight line has been noted, and with htemorrhage in one lateral lobe there has been a subjective feeling of falling to the opposite side. The pupils are as a rule con- tracted, though they may dilate before death ; the globes may deviate and may lose their parallelism, and there may be constant rapid nystagmus. Nothing constant has been found as regards the loss of motor power in these cases; in some there has been none, while in others hemiplegia has been present, but with no uniformity as regards the side affected, for sometimes it has been on the same side as the lesion, whereas in other cases it has been on the opposite side ; a state of things that is possibly accounted for by the fact that the hsemon'liage is sometimes limited to the cerebellum, while in other instances it involves the pons as well. Priapism has been observed in cases of hsemor- I'hage into the middle lobe, but is probably due to secondary interference with the pons and medulla. Softening is also rare, and in consequence of the free anastomosis of the vessels of the cerebellum, only a limited area is usually affected. The softening may result either from thrombosis or embolism, and is most frequently met with in the area supplied by the posterior cerebellar artery, in which the thrombus may originate, or there may be extension of a clot to this artery from the vertebral. Necrotic softening of the cerebellum may occur without giving rise to any symptoms, while in cases in which the cerebellum is only one of the parts affected in consequence of occlu- sion of the vertebral, any symptoms that may result from the cerebellar condition are obscured by the more urgent phenomena that result from affection of the pons and medulla. But when a cerebellar artery alone has been occluded, inco- ordination of movement has sometimes been a symptom, as has hemiplegia on the same side as the softening, in one case accompanied by weakness of the facial muscles on the hemiplegic side. Abscess.—^Ordinai-y and pysemic abscesses may of course occur in the cerebellum as in the cere- brum, but a detailed description of these con- ditions is unnecessary, as they have been dealt with in the article on inflammatory conditions of the brain. Tumour.—Tumours are very common in the cerebellum, notably tubercular, gliomatous, and sarcomatous growths. Cysts are also met with, and when not parasitic or the result of old hcemorrhage, they are iisually consequent on degeneration and breaking down of a new growth ; simple cysts are rare. Tumours may be situated in any part of the organ ; they are commonly found deeply seated on one lateral lobe, or the middle lobe may be chiefly involved. A not uncommon position for growths originating in the region of the floc- culus is on the external surface lying between the cerebellum and pons, while growths originat- ing in the cerebellum may extend along its middle peduncle and infiltrate the pons and medulla secondarily. Tumours more or less limited to one or other of the peduncles of the cerebellum have been only very exceptionally met with. Symptomatology.—As we are not here con- cerned with abscess of the cerebellum, and as the symptoms which result from hsemorrhage and softening have already been alluded to, the following account of the symptomatology of cerebellar disease, while not wholly inapplicable to other affections of the organ, is intended to relate mainly to tumours, wlaile the manifesta- tions which attend atrophy of the organ are reserved for subsequent and separate considera- i tion. Sufficient has been said on these subjects