18 ABDOMINAL ANEURYSM large and occupy the greater part of the left half of the abdomen, and in other cases, again, no definite tumour can be made out, but only a fulness on the left side which may give rise to a dull note on percussion, and extend from the seventh intercostal space to the crest of the ilium and laterally from the axillary line to the middle of spine. 2. Pressure Si/mptoms, . either Direct or In- direct.—(1) Pain is the earliest and most con- stant symptom. It often exists long before the patient seeks advice, and generally pei'sists to the last. It varies much in character, and it is often of neuralgic character, occasionally very severe; it may occur in paroxysms and resemble "colicky pain," closely simulating renal colic. The localisation and extension of the pain vary with the situation and growth of the aneurysm. The pain may be situated in the back over the spine and be of a gnawing character; if aneurysm is situated in the upper part of the aorta, the pain extends to lower i"ibs, or epigastrium : often the pain is in the lumbar region ; it may by pressure on the lumbar or sacral plexus cause neuralgic pains along the course of nerves, and pain in the thigh, knee, and toe are not un- common in abdominal aneurysm; the pain sometimes affects the testicle and penis. In some cases of false aneurysm, where the blood infiltrates the psoas muscle, pelvic pain is com- plained of. The pain is either the referred pain, as seen in other visceral diseases, or due to pressure on the nerves, at other times due to displacement of the organs by the growing aneurysm. Other pressure symptoms are— (2) Weakness in the legs which may amount to complete paraplegia—this symptom may be due to the aneurysm causing erosion of the vertebrae, and pressing on the cord, or to obstruction of the abdominal aorta, which either by causing anaemia of the spinal cord, or more likely, as shown by recent experi- mental investigation, by cutting off the blood - supply from the muscles and nerves, may produce a paralysis simulating transverse myelitis. (3) Dyspnoea, due to upward extension of the aneurysm compressing the lungs. If the aneurysm is large the lungs may be very much compressed and the physical signs on examina- tion may simulate pleural effusion. It must be noted that in some cases of abdominal aneurysm hydrothorax of the left side has been noticed, and this probably due to obstruction of veins and lymphatics. Persistent cough and extensive bronchitis have also been frequently noticed. 3. Common symptoms relating to the stomach and intestines are vomiting, flatulence, constipa- tion ; haematemesis may occur in ruptifre of the aneurysm into the stomach or duodenum, or it may be due to embolism in the arteries; con- stipation is a common symptom, pain in the rectum, and in rarer cases melaena (rupture or obstruction to or embolism in the superior mesen- teric artery). D3'sphagia has been noticed in a few cases in which aneur^'sm grew upwards or compressed cardiac end of stomach or oesophagus. 4. The kidneys may be displaced downwards or latterly and be pressed upon. This may give rise to albuminuria (venous congestion); hsema- turia (renal infarcts or compression of renal artery); suppression of urine has been noticed in some cases in which the abdominal aorta above the renal artery was more or less ob- structed by the aneurysm. If the ureter be pressed up or dragged by the displaced kidney, hydronephrosis may result. Cystitis and painful micturition have occasion- ally been observed. 5. Pain in the testicle occurring in paroxysms has already been noticed. In some rarer cases atrophy of one testicle (obstruction of spermatic artery) has been noticed (Walshe). 6. Pressure on the iliac vein may cause oedema of one lower extremity, and this was also noticed in an arterio-venous aneurysm (communication between iliac vein and abdominal aorta); pres- sure on the vena cava inferior causes oedema of both legs, and with or without oedema of the abdominal walls and ascites. 7. In females pressure symptoms may also be noticed in connection with the uterus and its adnexa. 8. Other symptoms in abdominal aneurysms difficult to explain are inequality of the pupils and also spinal myosis. This, I think, is more likely to be due to syphilis, which we know forms an important factor in the etiology of aneurysm. Hoarseness and aphasia have been noticed. The cause of this has not been clearly made out, and in one case in which these symp- toms were noticed no affection of the recurrent laryngeal and nothing abnormal in the larynx was to be found at the autopsy (Hamilton Deekins). Apart from these symptoms one notices in abdominal aneurysm secondary symptoms, such as palpitation, occasionally quick pulse, signs of dilatation or hypertrophy of the heart, not due to the aneurysm, but due to arterio-sclerosis, paroxysmal or persistent cough, often rise of temperatui-e (perhaps due to the action of blood- ferment in the false aneurysm); owing to the excessive gnawing pain, which occurs sometimes when the vertebra3 are eroded, the patient cannot move and holds his spine stiffly. The pain due to the pressure on the nerves may cause permanent contraction of the muscles; the patient often loses flesh to a considerable extent and has a pale cachectic appearance ; this, however, often occurs only late in the disease. As syphilis and arterio-sclerosis are often etio- logical factors in the causation of an aneurysm,