410 BLOOD, PHYSIOLOGY AND CLINICAL INVESTIGATION OF ducts of that organism. With regard to the chemical nature of the substances which give the serum this antitoxic property, we know but little, and the same is true with regard to their place and mode of formation. Recent work on pneumococcal infection points to the proba- bility that the bone marrow is one of the seats of formation of the immunising substance. Whether it be a product of the leucocytes or not, it is at present impossible to say. There is another point of importance in the physiology of the blood which I shall now refer to. One must bear in mind that the way in which the different inorganic and organic con- stituents are combined in the circulating blood must be very different from that which we find to occur in the blood when examined after death. The albumin and globulin do not circu- late free in the plasma, they are in all proba- bility more or less loosely bound to many of the salts which are present. They undoubtedly play a part in the transmission of the gases in the blood. The greater or less firmness with which sodium chloride is united to serum globulin may have to do with a decrease or increase in the amount of salt retained in the plasma, and hence a corresponding alteration in its amount in the urine. Up to the present, reference has exchisively been made to the plasma and its constituents; 1 shall now very shortly refer to the importance of the solid elements, a description of the general form and structure of the red and white cells being given later. The most important character of the red cells is that they contain the oxygen-carrier of the blood, haemoglobin; but we must not forget that there are other proteids present in these cells which also play a distinctive role in their life-history, viz. those present in the stroma. Of special interest in this respect are the alterations in the form of the red cells in and outside the body, all point- ing to their great elasticity. They are also resistant bodies, partly physically in virtue of their elasticity, and partly vitally, preventing, for example, diffusion inwards of solutions of iron and manganese, although permitting glucose readily to pass in. Alterations in the form of these cells by increasing or decreasing the sur- face area with or without alteration in their volume may lead to a disturbance in their respiratory capacity. Under certain conditions, to be afterwards described, the staining reactions of the protoplasm may be altered, while under other conditions nucleated forms (erythroblasts) may appear in the circulating blood. The white cells, although much less numerous than the red ones, have also important func- tions to perform, and in disease constitute a more important element than the latter. They are assimilative organisms, and affect by altera- tions in their metabolism the general body metabolism. The fact that certain of them show marked phagocytic properties has resulted in the term " blood scavengers " being applied to them. But they are more than destroyers of what is effete, they are also secretory cells, as shown especially in the granular forms, where undoubtedly the production of substances essential for the general body welfare goes on. A. Corpuscular Elements and Granules Red Blood Corpuscles or Erythrocytes are small, round, non - nucleated discs, which are thinner in the centre that at the periphery, so that when seen lying edgewise they show a dis- tinct indentation on both sides. On microscopic examination the convex periphery is first of all brought into focus, and only later are the rays passing through the centre intercepted by the objective. They are of light yellow tint, with a slight admixture of green, and when examined quickly in a fresh specimen are seen to have a smooth contour, and to be soft and elastic. When the cover-glass is tapped, they roll across the field, altering their course when they come in contact with a white corpuscle. Very shortly afterwards, they begin to run together to form smaller or larger rouleaux. Those at the edge of the preparation begin rapidly to show irregu- larity of outline, and, as drying proceeds, all become distinctly crenated. This shrinkage of these elastic cells is due to the increased concen- tration of the plasma from evaporation, water passing from the corpuscles to the denser salt solution outside. The average diameter of these cells is 7'5 [j. ; only rarely are smaller or larger forms to be met with in normal blood. A great deal of caution has to be observed in speaking of the minute structure of these cells, as it is extremely difficult to distinguish artificial and degenerative appearances from normal ones in stained films. The older views simply referred to the stroma with the haemoglobin contained in it, the " oikoid" and " zooid" of Briicke. Recent work is supporting the view that a peripheral can be distinguished from a central part, the former containing the mass of the hsemoglobin, the latter the residue of the degenerated nuclear matter of the erythroblast —" nucleoid." It is important to remember that the peripheral part stains most deeply with eosin, partly because it contains more haemoglobin. In pathological conditions, when the red cells do not stain so deeply with eosin as normally, this diminution is not due to an altered character of the hsemoglobin, but to a decrease in its amount. The fo7 m of the cells may be markedly altered in various diseases, the most important varia- tions being found in the anaemias, in the condi- tion known as poikilocytosis. Cells of normal size are to be seen along with large and small ones, all except the smallest showing the distinct dell in the centre. There are also to be seen a variety of the most bizarre forms, some present-