519 BRAIN, SURGERY OF Occasionally a subacute or delayed form of meningitis occurs in which the symptoms do not follow the injui-y till after the lapse of some weeks, or even longer. These cases do not, as a rule, run such an acute course as those first described, nor do they require siich a vigorous line of treatment. 3. Cerebral Abscess Cerebral abscess is met with occasionally in the frontal or parietal lobes of the brain after injury, and especially after penetrating wounds, such as gunshot wounds, which carry in foreign bodies, such as hair, etc., into the substance of the brain. Abscess may also occur as the result of contusion from direct injury or from contre-coup, the organisms spreading along the lymphatics or blood-vessels from the surface into the deeper parts, or being deposited by the l)lood-current in the parts weakened by injury. In other cases the abscess may be metastatic, and secondary to some suppurative focus at a distance, as in pysemia; or it may spread from septic osteitis, e.r/. necrosis of the cranial bones due to syphilis, tubercle, etc. By far the commonest cause of cereljral abscess, however, is chronic suppurative otitis media. In those cases following injury the abscess usually runs an acute course, and has no limit- ing capsule. In most cases, however, which follow middle ear disease, the abscess is chronic and encapsulated. It may lie latent for months, or even for years, without causing any marked symptoms, and then, by a sudden increase in size or by biu'sting, may draw attention by causing compression of the brain or meningitis. Symptoms of Cerebral Abscess.—If resulting from injury the abscess runs an acute course. On the second or third day after the wound there is severe headache, the temperature rapidly rises, rigors may take place, and symp- toms which at hrst simulate those of meningitis are present. Compression symptoms shortly follow, and the patient, if unrelieved, dies coma- tose in the coiu-se of a week or ten days. When the abscess is secondary to suppurative otitis media, or similar causes, the symptoms are somewhat different, and the case runs a subacute or chronic course. The characteristic symptoms of a chronic cerebral abscess are headache, drowsiness, vomit- ing, a (/iV^y tongue, a subnm-mal temperature, and optic neuritis. (a) Headache is usually severe and sometimes excruciating, though in some cases it may be entirely absent. It is usually general at first, liut subsequently is felt chiefly over one side of the head, and there may be marked tenderness on pressure or percussion over the area overlying the abscess. The pain may be constant or intermittent, occasionally coming on in severe paroxysms. (b) The patient is drovisy and much inclined to sleep. When asked questions he may take a long time to answer, and speaks in a markedly slow and deliljerate manner. (c) The digestive system is much disturbed, as evidenced by an entire loss of appetite, con- stipation, and an extremely dirty tongue and foul breath. (o?) Vomiting is apt to occur without a feeling of nausea, and in no relation to meals; the patient frequently vomits immediately on wak- ing up from sleep. (e) The temperature is, as a rule, distinctly subnormal (96° to 97° F.) unless there is accom- panying meningitis. If cerebral abscess and meningitis coexist, the latter obscures the dia- gnosis by causing a high temperature. This is particularly the case if the meningitis be liasal. (/) The pulse is slow and apt to intermit. ((/) The Tesp)iration in the later stages is apt to take on the Cheyne-Stokes' character. (li) There is optic neuritis in most cases, most marked on the affected side. The pupil on the affected side is apt to be dilated and insensitive to light. (?') Epileptiform attads may occur. {j) Localising symptoms may be present, due to pressure or irritation by the abscess of the sensorimotor areas. The commonest positions in which chronic abscess occurs in the In-ain are the temporo- sphenoidal lobe, the cerebellum, and the frontal lobe. Abscess in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe is very common after mastoid disease, and is due to an extension upwards of the suppuration through the roof of the tympanic ca-saty. Interference with smell or taste (for which senses the centres are situated in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe) is not often marked, as the other healthy side of the l)rain takes up the duties of the diseased side to a considerable extent. There may be sufficient pressure exerted by a temporo- sphenoidal abscess to cause paralysis of the muscles of the face or arm of the opposite side ; and if the abscess be situated on the left side of the head the speech centre in the third frontal convolution may be aftected. Abscess in the cerebellum is frequently second- ary to lateral sinus phlebitis with infective thrombosis. This is a commoner result of mastoid disease in adults than in children, as in the latter the mastoid cells are not fully de- veloped till about puberty, and consequently the pus from the middle ear does not tend to spread into the mastoid prominence, and so come in close relation with the sigmoid sinus as it does in the adult. In cerebellar abscess optic neuritis is well marked, vomiting is specially frequent, and there is usually retraction of the head. Abscess in the frontal lobes is apt to show little distinctive sign except, perhaps, interfer-