ANEURYSM 166 of the vessels affected were well known. No doubt was felt but that this condition, which is present in the great majority of aneurysms, was the passive cause of the dilatation — imiform loss of strength and of elasticity leading to fusiform aneurysms, local weakening by burst- ing of an atheromatous focus or shifting of a calcareous plate resulting in a saccular pouch. Against this view it was pointed out that aneurysm is a disease of early middle life, ather- oma of late middle and old age; that atheroma is very common in all countries, but aneurysm is not; that atheroma is equally common in women and in men, but aneurysm is far more frequent in men ; that aneurysms occur in which there is no atheroma or none in association with the aneurysm. Good answers were not difficult to make. Atheroma is not very rare under thirty, and is commonly found in cases of aneurysm in young adults. It is difficult upon any theory to account for the varying incidence of aneurysm in different countries. Atheroma is equally common in the two sexes only after middle life; before this, far commoner in men. Lastly, it was not asserted that atheroma was the only cause of aneurysm. Many years ago v. Recklinghausen advanced the view that the essential lesion in aneurysm was rupture of the media. His pupils, Eppinger and Manchot, have done much to establish it by the frequency with which they have demon- strated ruptures of the elastic lamellse in early aneurysms. They regard the presence of ather- oma in cases of aneurysm as fortuitous. What is essential to the production of an aneurysm is either congenital or acquired weakness of the media, so that it will rupture under some strain to which it may be exposed. Thoma has made an exhaustive study of arterio-sclerosis. Its histology is very complex, and consists of fatty degeneration of connective tissue and muscle cells and granular change of elastic fibres; occasionally ruptured elastic fibres; frequent localised or diffuse inflam- matory foci, the result of injuries and strains; and lastly, fibroblasts and young connective tissue, indicating efforts at repair. Thoma concludes that the most striking lesions of endarteritis deformans are to be regarded as compensatory for less obvious, weakening lesions, chiefly of the media. Aneurysm, according to this view, occvirs only when the compensation fails. Among other proofs of the compensatory nature of arterio-sclerosis Thoma showed that gelatine casts of atheromatous vessels, made under normal blood-pressure, have smooth sur- faces ; they should have lumps opposite the plaques if these were weak spots. The very frequent association of aneurysm and arterio-sclerosis does not necessarily imply that the latter is the cause of the former: they may both be the result of the same cause, viz. weakness of the media, and arterio-sclerosis may really be preventive of aneurysm. If atheromatous plaques degenerate and burst, or calcify and are swept away, the compensation will, of course, be reduced considerably and a slighter strain will caiise dilatation. Syphilis is a cause of chronic endarteritis : is it a cause of aneurysm? It is best seen in the circle of Willis and its branches, where it pro- duces an endarteritis and tends to cause occlu- sion by irregular gummatous thickening. But it certainly may affect the aorta and great vessels rising from it, and gummata may pro- duce changes, such as stretching and rupture of the media, from which aneurysms arise. There can be no doubt that some aneurysms owe their origin to syphilis, but there is great doubt as to how many do, and as to whether the disease affects all vessels or only certain ones. Geographical Distribution. — This is by no means uniform. External aneurysms are said to be very rare in Germany and Belgium, more common in Italy and France, in which latter country it is said to be increasing, most frequent in Great Britain and Ireland and in America. Situation.—Aneurysms of the aorta seem to be three to four times as frequent as all " ex- ternal " aneurysms taken together. The thoracic aorta, especially the arch, suffers most frequently, because the pressure here is highest; chronic and acute arteritis are most common and severe; and it is liable to lateral strain through the great vessels arising from it, especially on the right. Of " external " aneurysms the popliteal is much the most common. Of 142 such aneurysms collected from recent reports of four London hospitals, 79 — well over half—were popliteal, 20 femoral (15 in Hunter's canal), 7 ilio-femoral, 8 axillary, 6 subclavian, 6 com- mon carotid. The striking excess of lower limb aneurysms over those of the upper limb may be connected with the higher pressure and less perfect nutrition which prevail in the former. Sex.—Of these 142 cases 11 were in females = 1 in 13. Age.—The age is given in 72 popliteal cases. There wei'e 2 at twenty-five or imder, 14 at thirty, 20 at thirty-five, making exactly half (36) by thirty-five ; the next five-yearly periods showed 11, 10, and 10; there were 3 before fifty-five, 1 before sixty-five, and 1 at seventy. The aneurysm age may be said to run from thirty to fifty, i.e. during the period before muscular strength fails, and when therefore the hardest woi'k and exercise are persisted in, but during which also vascular disease and degenera- tion begin and often reach a high development in those who are predisposed. It is true that atheroma is most common and most severe after fifty, but by this time loss of strength and energy necessitates the abandonment of the most laborious occupations. Occupation.—Aneurysms are most common among those whose occupations require the most