BONE, DISEASES OF 430 be defects or holes in the invohicrinii, which are called cloacce; they correspond, more or less, in position to the sinuses in the skin; hence in passing a probe down one of the sinuses, it usually passes through the corresponding cloaca, and strikes the dead bone lying in the interior of the involucrum. Where the periosteum has been more extensively destroyed there will be corresponding gaps or defects in the new case, or new l)one may only be formed in small patches here and there, or no new bone may be formed at all. The tissue cells and capillary loops on the internal aspect of the new case acquire the appearance of a lining of granula- tions, which, if in immediate contact with the dead Vione beneath, will eat into the surface, and partly absorb it; the dead bone in the process of separation may thus acquire a pitted, grooved, or worm-eaten appearance, and may undergo diminution in size. If the dead bone is merely in contact with pus, its surface remains smooth and intact. The separation of the dead bone from the living takes place at the line of junction between the two, and is achieved by the activity of the cells of the marrow, chiefly osteoclasts, which eat both into the living and into the dead bone, so that separation takes place at the expense of both ; idtimately the dead hone becomes loose, and in the macerated specimen will rattle about in its new case. The loose separated dead bone is called a sequestrum, and the latter presents on the surfaces and edges, with which it was originally continuous with the living, an eroded or worm-eaten appear- ance. The worm-eaten appearance of sequestra is produced at the moment of their separation, and not afterwards. In sequestra derived from the diaphysis one end frequently corresponds to the I, ossifying junction where the separation has taken place transversely. The separation of sequestra is more rapid at the spongy end of the shaft than towards its centre, where the line of separation is often oblique. Usually the sequestrum is dead white in colour, but it may be discoloured by the pro- ducts of decomposition. Sequestra are described as total, partial, superficial, central, cylindrical, tubular, annular, according to the extent, position, and shape of the bone which has perished. If the necrosis is central, and does not involve the surface bone, the latter becomes vascularised and canalised by cells and vessels which have to do with the separation of the dead bone beneath, while on its periosteal aspect it contributes, along with the periosteum, to the formation of the new case. Where the foci of suppuration have been scattered up and down the medullary cavity, and the bone has died in patches, several sequestra may be included by the new case ; the latter is then incomplete, and will be continuous with and fused here and there with those parts of the original shaft which have not died. Each patch or portion of dead bone is slowly separated, and comes to lie in a cavity lined by granula- tions, the sequestnun being again smaller than the portion of living bone which it represents. As a result of the participation of the marrow in the formation of new bone, the medullary canal may be obliterated at one or more points, or throughout its extent, resulting in great in- crease in the weight and density (sclerosis) of the bone. The new case is at first spongy and fragile, but in the course of time it becomes denser and stronger. Also, wherever the old bone has been rarefied and vascularised, there is subse- quent condensation and hyperostosis, often going beyond the normal. Wherever the periosteum has not been detached, the new bone which it forms is deposited on the original shaft in a gradually-diminishing amount, according to the distance from the seat of infection. It results in increase in the girth of the bone (hyper- ostosis). Spontaneous Fracture.—The juxta-epiphy- siary form has already been referred to. Spon- taneoxis fracture of the shaft proper may also occur before repair is complete (towards the end of sixth week), from standing on the limb, or by the action of muscles. It occurs at the site of necrosis, or where the bone is mined by rare- fying osteitis, and is usually met with in the femur in its upper or lower third. The fracture may involve both the old bone and the new case, or one or other of these alone. Short of fractiu-e, there may be bending or curving of the shaft from want of rigidity; this especially affects the new case, resvdting in great deformity and shortening of the limb. The Spontaneous Extrusion of a Seques- trum may occur from the pressure of granula- tions upon it, provided there be a cloaca large enough (or sequestrum small enough) and the cloaca is so situated as to favour its escape externally. The siu-geon has usually to inter- fere and perform the operation of sequestrotomy. The displacement or partial extrusion of a sequestrum may be the cause of serious com- plications, e.g. a sequestrum in the position of the trigone of the femur may perforate the popliteal artery or the cavity of the knee- joint. The capacity for the reproduction of hone which has heen lost varies. — Certain portions of bone normally covered by cartilage (e.g. head and neck of femur, astragalus), and bones which are entirely formed in membrane (flat bones of skull, upper jaw), are not reproduced. Certain differences are observed when the disease affects the long hones of young infants before the epiphyses are properly constituted ; the epiphysial cartilage is not as yet differentiated from the articular cartilage, and is in immediate relation with the capsule of the joint—in other