419 BLOOD, PHYSIOLOGY AND CLINICAL INVESTIGATION OF The glass wedge can bo moved in a horizontal direction, so that any jjart of it can be brought alongside the compartment of a divided inetal cylinder in which the diluted blood is placed. This metal cylinder is fixed on a small stage similar to that of a microscope and is divided into two e([iial compartments hy a partition. At the base it is closed by a glass plate, the wedge being moved horizontally l^eneath this and viewed by light which has been reflected up- wards from a white surface (a reflector covered with calcium sulphate). The blood is measured by means of a special pipette and then introduced into the proper compartment of the cylinder ; distilled water is added ;ind mixed uniformly witli the l)lood. Both compartments are finally filled up with distilled water. Although this instrument is exceedingly handy for rapid estimations, it is not very exact. Oliver^ Hcemoglohinomister.—This instrument is an adaptation of Lovil)ond's tintometer, which is so largely used at present for estimation of colour intensities of different fluids and solids used in the technical industries. A proper description of this most ingenious instrument and Oliver's modification of it would take up far more space than I have at my disposal, so the reader may be referred to Dr. Oliver's Croonian lectures, where the subject is fully discussed. It is l)ased upon the same principle as v. Fleischl's instriunent, far greater care, however, having been taken in the fixation of the colour standards. The blood, which is taken up by an automatic capillary pipette, is placed in a cell :md diluted with water until the mixture is level with the rim. The colour is compared with a series of circular tinted glass standards which have l)een most acciu'ately gradiuxted. Unfortunately even this method is fallacioiis, as all must be which are based upon comparisons of tint Ijetween coloured glass standards and diluted blood. If the glasses which are sent out with each instrument have not been ex- tremely carefully matched against the original standards (even supposing that the latter are exact) all the precautions which are afterwards adopted to prevent introduction of fallacious readings are thrown away. The nearer one gets to the original hfemoglobin standard the better. Those of us who have worked with the instru- ment can testify, however, to the rapidity and ease with which, after some experience, lifcmo- globin estimations can be made. Hoppe-Seyler's Colorimetric Method.—This is one of the most accurate methods for estimation of the blood pigment. Here the standard is a solution of carbonic oxide hremoglobin of fixed strength, and the blood which has to ))e examined is also saturated with this gas and the tint com- pared with the normal HbCO solution. If the blood solution be too dark the fluid is run out ity means of a tiil)e froui the glass chamber in which it is placed and diluted before it is sucked up again, and the tints again compared. The fluid used for dihition is water that has been saturated with carbonic oxide. Concentrated HbCO solutions in closed capil- lary tubes can lie obtained from the Strassb\u-g Physiological Institute. The glass chamber containing the l)lood to be examined is fixed in the same frame as that containing the standard HbCO solution. Greater accuracy can be attained l)y the use of Albrecht's telescopic arrangement with collimator tube. Estimation of luemoglobin by the spectro- photometer, although extremely exact, is of course impossiljle in clinical work. VI. Enumeration of Corpuscles. — The methods employed for this purpose consist in the estimation of the corpuscles in a fixed amoinit of blood that has been imiformly diluted with a fluid which preserves the cells. The instrument on the whole most suitable for this purpose is the Thoma-Zeiss hfemocyto- meter. It consists essentially of a chamber, the depth of which can be fixed, where the cells are comated over squares of known area. A tiny drop of the diluted blood is placed in a glass cell placed on a slide. On the floor of this cell there is a small, circular glass disc, upon the surface of which carefully measured microscopic squares have been niled. The point of import- ance is the fixation of the depth of the cell over this disc, with an acciu';itely grovnid glass gently pressed down over the drop. Newton's colour rings appear, and the depth is then O'l mm. The small quadrates are sq. mm. in area, so that the vohnne of diluted blood over each of these when the cover-glass is applied is ^wo cub. mm. Aroinid each group of sixteen small squares darker lines are drawn, in order to facilitate counting. By a rapid prick with a lancet blood is taken from the lobe of the ear, after due precautions have been taken to ensiu'e cleanliness, and then the jaoint of tlie carefully dried pipette is inserted into the drop of blood and the latter sucked up to the mark O'D c.mm. Any blood adhering to the end of the ^^ipette is removed by the point of the finger cautiously, and then the diluting fluid is drawn up to the mark 101 c.mm., the tube lieing gently shaken while this is being done. The narrow stem of the pipette is then emptied of diluting fluid by blowing through the upper end, and a tiny drop of the diluted blood in the bulb placed on the centre of the glass cell. Care has to be taken that the drop is not so large that it passes over into the circular valley at the top of the disc on application of the cover-glass. A carefully groinid cover-glass is then lowered on the drop, and gentle pressiire applied until Newton's I'ings appear and remain after withdrawal of the pres- sure. The corpuscles are allowed a few minutes to settle, and then they are counted in as large