ANEU But wlieii a nanuvv, long, oblique wound of the Buperficial parts leads to a considerable wound in a main artery, and when any pressure applied does not close the wound in the artery, a htematoma will form. Its size will vary witli the amount and duration of collapse, the magni- tude of the artery wounded, the size and direc- tion of the wound in it, and the laxity of the surroiuiding tissue and the efficiency of any pressure employed. The extreme results are-— (1) Such widespread extravasation into the part that the patient shows the effects of hicmor- rhage, whilst, locally, the circulation is increas- ingly impeded by the wound and press\ire of the hiematoma, luitil gangrene supervenes (for symptoms, vide antea) ; and (2) the rapid de- velopment of a swelling of no great size, and fairly outlined from the first, in which all the signs of aneurysm are present. Every stage between these extremes may be met with : the more diffuse the hsematonia the more marked will be the signs of circulatory difficulty, the lesH marked will be the signs of aneurysm ; but these appear as the hfijmatoma becomes circum- scribed, by a capsule of connective tissue and clot, while the marginal portion of the extrava- sation is absorbed. Pulsation and bruit are best marked in cases of considerable transverse, lateral woinid ; least marked with a small longi- tudinal wound or a complete division allowing the ends of tlie ;ii'tery to retract within the sheath. Ultimately a circumscribed hccmatoma may differ from an aneurysm only in its etiology. If untreated, it tends to rupture. Sometimes a lucmatoma will reach a great size without threatening the vitality of the part, i.e. its expansion is satisfied by the yield- ing of parts towards the surface; it may rupture here. It may also inflame and sup- purate. With regard to size, it is much more astonishing to see how frequently a woiuid of a great artery leads to a circmnscribed htematoraa than to find it giving rise to a diffuse one. Diagnosis.—From cellulitis and deep abscess, and from ruptured aneurysm, depends largely in the first case and entirely in the second upon the history. From malignant growth. This may sometimes arise. There is a history of a blow or injury to a limb, swelling follows and increases steadily ; there is a good deal of pain. The swelling is fairly outlined, elastic, not fixed to bone. No sign of bruising and none of inflammation. An incision may be necessary to make the diagnosis. Treatment.—The well-circumscribed form may, like the aneurysm it so closely resembles, be successfully treated by compression or proximal ligature ; it is equally true that these remedies may fail. The only certain cure is excision or incision of the sac ; and, seeing that the vessel is presumabh' healthy, there can be no qtiestion as to the ])ropriety of tying it as one would any other wounded artery. RYSM 177 But if proximal ligature is justifiable in cases of circumscri])ed hfcmatoma, it is a most danger- ous and inefficacious practice in the dift'use form in which the circulation is already much im- peded. Here control of the circulation, while the hajmatoma is split open freely, the wounded vessel foiuid and its ends tied, is the proper treatment. AiiTEKio- VnNuut^ Intercommunications Causes.—In the great majority of cases these are of traumatic origin, being due to stabs and cuts, not infrequently to gunshot wounds, rarely to contusions without wound, involving an arl- jacent artery and vein. Sometimes there has been no injury, the communication resulting from some disease {spontaneous). Bramann's examination of these cases shows that they were due either to a wound which had been over- looked or to perforation of a vein by an aneurysm. There does not, however, seem good reason for denying that the base of an atheromatous ulcer in an undilated artery may adhere to a vein, and, not finding sufficient suppoi't, may open into the vein — the opening, perh;ips, being brought about by some fall or strain ; indeed, this rather than pressure atrophy probaVily ex- plains the ojjening of a true aneurysm into a vein. Seats.—In Bramann's table venesection at the bend of the elbow was responsible for half the number of cases collected ; a few occurred after temporal arteriotomy. The distribution of the remainder shows that these lesions may occur wherever an artery and vein are liable to simulta- neous injury, no matter what the magnitude of the vessels. Thus Colzi {£. M. J. 1895, vol. ii. p. 184) has recorded a case of direct communica- tion between the aortic arch and the left in- nominate vein, the result of a stiletto wound ; the man lived for eleven years. This is prob- ably unique. The carotid and jugular in the neck, the carotid and cavernous sinus ("pulsat- ing exophthalmos," "orbital aneurysm"), the axillary and common femoral vessels are the great vessels most often affected after the brachial. Pathogeny and Morbid Anatomy.—When an artery and vein are woiuided contact is occasion- ally maintained, the edges of the wound unite, and a direct connnunication between the artery and vein results. Still more rarely the com- munication is indirect, being effected by an irregular, more or less spherical cavity opening at either pole into one or other vessel. This indirect communication is often called a varicose aneurysm, because the fibrous sac between the vessels feels and pulsates like an aneurysm. In this sac there is, as a rule, no clot. As results of the escape of blood from an artery into a vein we find : that the parts beyond suffer in their nutrition, the muscles degenerate and waste: that the veins dilat-e 12