307 ASPIRATOR, USES OF of passing the needle right through a collection of fluid without tapping it. With Potain's instrument the trochar must be in the fluid before the vacuum is opened. Should the flow suddenly cease, a flake of lymph or thick pus has probably blocked the needle. This may be dislodged by the use of a blunt stylet, or by reinjecting some of the fluid, according to the structure of the apparatus in use. Aspiration nuist be stopped at once should blood flow in any quantity, or should the patient show signs of collapse, or of irritative cough. In with- drawing the needle there is a risk of infecting its track by pus escaping from the point. This may to some extent be obviated by keeping the vacuum in action during the withdrawal. The puncture is bathed with an antiseptic lotion, and sealed with collodion. Should the needle meet with much resistance on its way in, it must be withdrawn and reintroduced at a different point. Any attempt to guide it past an obstruction by twisting is very apt to break it across. After use, the wiiole apparatus must be thoroughly cleaned with antiseptics, dried, and carefully put away. Needles should be washed through with hot water, then dried in a spirit flame, which prevents rusting. Avoid strong carbolic lotion for the purification of the needles both before and after use, as it coagulates albuminous fluids in the lumen, and leads to blockage. It is an advantage to pass a silver wire stylet into the lumen of the needle before putting it aside, to prevent occlusion by rust. Applications. — It must be said that the advent of the antiseptic principle into surgery has largely done away with the necessity for aspiration in many circumstances where it would otherwise have played a most important role. There are few conditions now where an aseptic incision is not better surgery than the blind plunge of an aspirating needle. The indications for the use of the aspirator naturally fall into two classes—(1) for diagnostic purposes; and (2) for therapeutic purposes. (1) For Diagnostic Purposes.—Positive find- ings have great value, but negative findings almost none, especially when a short fine liypodermic needle is employed. The fluid- containing cavity may be missed, the fluid may be too thick to pass through the needle, or no cavity may exist. Exploratory aspiration perhaps finds its most useful fields in detecting the presence of fluid in certain situations where physical signs are cither absent or conflicting, e.g. in the pleural cavity of children ; in the diagnosis between serous and purulent collections in the pleural cavity ; in doubtful effusions into joints ; and in distinguishing between abscesses, cysts, bursal, and other fluid swellings in various situations. When the needle has to traverse a presumably healthy serous space before reaching the part to be explored, the process becomes a dangerous one, and had better give j^lace to an exploratory incision. It is, therefore, not available for determining between hydatid cysts and abscess of the liver ; for deciding the character of fluid in the gall-bladder; for investigating pancreatic, mesenteric, ovarian, or other intra-peritoneal cysts. It is still more dangerous to introduce an aspirator needle into the lumen of the intes- tine. In all these conditions the risk of sudden rupture, or of slow leakage of septic material into the peritoneal cavity, precludes this method of investigation. With a healthy pleura, also, the danger of exploring tuberculous, gangrenous, hydatid, or other cavities in the lung is too great to w'arrant its use. The same comment applies to its employ- ment in the diagnosis of intra-cerebral collections, and of renal swellings such as hydro-nephrosis and pyo-iiephrosis. (2) For Therapeutic Ptirposes. — The objec- tions urged against aspiration as a diagnostic measure hold with equal force against its therapeutic use. There are, however, certain conditions where it is a valuable measure. Perhaps the commonest indication for its vise is in cases of simple in- flammatory effusion into the cavity, where marked benefit usually follows one or more aspirations. Also in cases where, from cardiac insufficiency or other cause, there is an exces- sive transudation into serous cavities, e.g. the peritoneum or pleura, this procedure finds a wide field of usefulness. Where pericardial effusion is interfering with the heart's action, a fine needle passed upwards and inwards through the fourth or fifth interspace, about one inch from the left side of the sternum, avoiding the internal mammary artery, which lies behind the costal cartilages, may give relief. In pmeumo- thorax the withdrawal of air may favour the re-expansion of the lung ; and in ha^mothorax from injury or malignant tumour, the with- drawal of blood may remove the mechanical embarrassment to the breathing. In cases of excessive eff'usion of inflammatoi"y fluids or blood into the cavities of large joints, the removal of even a small quantity often greatly hastens the absorption of the rest, and relieves pain. Firm elastic pressure is applied after aspirating. Large hcematomata in other situations are often more speedily absorbed after a quantity of the more fluid portion has been withdrawn by aspiration. Over-diste7ision of the bladder, from impassable stricture or enlarged prostate, may be relieved temporarily by aspirating in the middle line close above the pubis. The fluid should be drawn off" slowly, and the bladder should not be completely emptied, otherwise bleeding is apt to take place fi-om the veins of the bladder-wall suddenly deprived of the support of the urine.