BERIBERI 370 this point. Apparently the disease may be con- veyed from place to place, but in what way it passes from man to man, or in what way the disease is acquired in the endemic area, is still unknown. Heat and moisture have a distinct influence on the activity of the materies morbi; for whereas within the tropics, in the zone of perennial high temperature, beriberi occurs all the year round, in higher latitudes it occurs only during the summer months, disappearing dviring the cold season. In the tropics it is most pre- valent during the rains. In either tropics or sub-tropics a sudden fall of temperature, especi- ally if accompanied with a damp condition of the atmosphere, is apt during an epidemic of beriberi to be followed by the appearance of fresh cases, and to aggravate the symptoms in existing cases. Beriberi affects low-lying damp localities, whether it be in the country or in cities. Predisposing Causes.—New-comers to a beri- beric district are very prone to the disease ; the natives, however, are by no means immune. It attacks the robust as well as the feeble, the well-nourished rich man as well as the half- starved beggar. All ages, both sexes, and all races are liable ; the very young and the very old enjoy a relative immunity. Attacks of acute disease predispose to beriberi, so that this dis- ease is often found as a sequel or accompaniment of typhoid, malaria, dysentery, phthisis, syphilis. Pregnant and puerperal women are especially prone to the disease. Cause.—Nothing definite is known as to the actual agent which produces beriberi. Four sets of hypotheses have been advanced:—(a) That it is a form of malaria, of scorbiitus, of rheumatism, of anaemia, or that it is a helmin- thiasis. The facts do not harmonise with any such etiology. These and similar explanations of the phenomena of beriberi have now been definitely abandoned. (6) That it is the expres- sion of a type of physiological starvation— nitrogen starvation. The experience of the Japanese navy is quoted in favour of this hypo- thesis. Formerly the Japanese fleets were annually ravaged by beriberi. On adopting a more liberal dietary the disease almost imme- diately disappeared from the crews. Lately a Dutch writer attributes the liability of the prisoners in certain jails in Java to the use of decorticated rice—a rice, he maintains, deprived of an important nutritive element. Defective dietary may predispose to beriberi. But that it can cause beriberi is certainly not the case; for, could it do so, the disease would be a feature in every famine, it would affect the poor every- where, and it would always spare the rich, (c) That it is caused by the invasion of the body by a microbe. Many such parasites have been proclaimed, both bacteria and protozoa; but hitherto the evidence for any one of them being anything more than an epiphenomenon or, pos- sibly, the outcome of defective observation, is inconclusive, (c^) That it is caused by a toxine the product of a saprophyte living outside the human body, certain conditions of temperature, moisture, and of an organic culture medium being necessary for its proliferation. Such a hypothesis seems compatible with most of the peculiarities, both clinical and epidemiological, of beriberi. The analogy to the yeast plant, alcohol, and alcoholic neuritis is very close and suggestive. Such a hypothesis explains the rapid recovery in many cases of beriberi on the patient's removal from a tainted house, ship, or locality; a rapidity of recovery hardly com- patible with a parasitic theory of the disease. Incubation.—The incubative period of beri- beri has not been definitely ascertained. Recent observations show that the disease may appear in individuals coming from an vminfected local- ity in four or five weeks after arrival in an endemic centre. Formerly a residence of several months was considered necessary, but the obser- vations referred to tend to show that in highly infective localities a much shorter time suffices for the development of symptoms. Symptoms.—These vary very much according to the type of the disease, the stage of the dis- ease, the intensity of the infection, and the occur- rence or otherwise of intercurrent reinfection. Briefly, the clinical picture is one of a mul- tiple peripheral neuritis, most marked in the lower extremities, but very frequently extending to the hands and arms. To the paretic, parses- thesic, and analgesic symptoms usual in this condition a greater or less amount of oedema, varying from slight puffiness over the shins to general dropsy, is superadded. Besides this, the almost invariable occurrence of breathless- ness and palpitation affords evidence of the frequency in beriberi of implication of the neuro-muscular elements of the circulation, and especially of the heart. Beriberi may commence suddenly ; the patient, for example, having gone to bed apparently quite well, may wake up in the morning with the symptoms well marked. More generally there is a period of days or weeks during which vague pains in the limbs are experienced, together with muscular debility coming and going, a degTee of palpitation, perhaps diarrhoea, and it may be a slight but evanescent rise of tempei'ature. Rapidly, or more slowly, the feebleness of the legs and, generally, a very evident pre-tibial puffiness increase. The mus- cular weakness, always most marked in the muscles of the legs, may now rapidly or more slowly extend to those of the thighs, of the hands and arms, and, in a proportion of in- stances, to those of the trunk, including the diaphragm and intercostal muscles. The affected muscles are tender on pressure—some- times exquisitely so, and exhibit the reaction of degeneration on being tested electrically. The