346 BALNEOLOGY open the surface arterial system, to accelerate the pulse, and diminish the general blood- pressure. This condition may continue for many hours after the bath, with a degree of enervation and debility proportional to its temperature and duration. It is remarkable how tolerant the body is of sudden and extreme changes of temperature when the cutaneous circulation is opened by recent thermal stimula- tion. The Russian comes out of his sweating- chamber at 130° F. with a red-hot skin, and rolls in the snow or in iced water with impunity. These cold applications after heat restore tone, raise the blood-pressure, and prevent the enerva- tion and debility just referred to. The reaction of the blood-vessels both to heat and cold has been generally regarded as reflex, through the vaso-motor centre. Whilst this is no doubt true in the case of sudden and intense stimuli, such as that experienced on entering a cold bath, there is reason to believe that a local and direct reaction on the part of the contractile peripheral arterioles (the so-called coeur peri- pherique) also takes place. It is held that stimuli of cold and heat, especially those of a gentle and continuous character, produce locally in the vessel walls the movement of dilatation or contraction. Not only so, but the activity of the unstriped muscular fibres, whether of the blood- vessels, intestine, or bladder, is directly respon- sive to the application of heat or cold (Onimus). ((T) On the nervoxhs system.-—The influence of different degrees of heat on the nervous mech- anism governing glandular activity and vascular tone has been already alluded to. It remains to consider in what manner the temperature of baths affects the skin as an organ of sensation, and to what extent the nervous centres and the body at large are affected mediately through the skin. The sensation of bodily warmth de- pends on the fluctuations of cutaneous arterial supply, is relative in character, and in baths closely follows changes of temperature. (1) The impression of cold in cool or cold baths stimu- lates the respiratory and vaso-motor centres, and excites reflex muscular contractions and increased production of heat. (2) Baths slightly below blood-heat, and somewhat warmer than the skin (subthermal), produce a diffuse sensa- tion of warmth, in the same manner as frictions. On the whole, peripheral excitation is diminished and equalised. This is for most persons the pleasurable degree of heat. It is this mild, con- tinuous, thermal stimulation of the skin which is alluded to in the psychological definition— " Heat is a typical form of passive physical pleasure " (Bain). The massive sense of warmth, the titillation of so large an area, and the undu- latory movements of the water, have a calm- ing and soporific effect on mind and body. Subthermal baths are therefore usually sedative. (3) On the other hand, baths above blood-heat, like those consideraby below it in temperature, have an initial stimulant effect on the nervous centres. If the application of heat be continued, the muscles, both voluntary and involuntary, are relaxed, and the circulatory excitement rapidly becomes febrile, with profound enerva- tion and ultimate paralysis. These secondary and febrile effects of heat are not produced, even by the hottest thermal baths, if these are sufficiently brief, or followed by an adequate application of cold. It cannot be doubted that stimulant or seda- tive actions produced on the skin are participated in, through the nervous centres, by all parts of the body. Whether the nervous end-organs, and therefore the sensibility of the skin, be moderately and pleasantly affected, or more powerfully stimulated, by cold or heat, corre- sponding activities are produced elsewhere which affect the course of trophic and other tissue changes as well as the various secretory and excretory functions. The exact nature and sequence of these indirect activities have yet to be defined and elucidated; but the doctrine of the general action of baths through the peri- pheral sensory nerve-organs is the corner-stone of balneo-therapeutics. Effects of Moisture.— In most baths the action of heat and of moisture on the skin are conjoined. The first may be considered in general a stimulant, and the second a sedative influence, and the general character of the bath depends on the predominance of one or the other. Moisture softens and relaxes the skin, separating the dead epidermic scales and causing the deeper cells to swell by imbibition of water. Massage is often more effectual in connection with baths because it operates upon mollified tissues. Effects op Pressure.—In all immersion baths the body is subjected to a pressure additional to that of the atmosphere, and proportional to the depth and specific gravity of the bath. This pressure, unless counteracted by other agencies, causes contraction of the peripheral vessels and tends to drive the fluids to the deeper parts. It also hinders the respiratory movements. It has been estimated that the total additional pressure on an adult body in a bath of water amounts to from 500 to 600 kilogrammes. These facts have a bearing on the use of baths in circulatory disorders. III. The different Kinds of Baths and their Actions 1. Indifferent Thermal and Subthermal Baths.—Bath may be taken as typical of ther- mal, and Schlangenbad of subthermal, spas. The therapeutic effects of this large class of baths are mainly those of heat and moisture, which have been already discussed. No doubt the physical, and possilily the electrical, pro- perties of the water, and the presence of alkaline or siliceous, and especially of gaseous con- stituents, may modify the action. Thermal