ASTHENOPIA 309 circumstances. In reading, for instance, the letters appear to run together; a conscious effort is necessary in order to focus sufficiently sharply. Another complaint is of evei'ytliing becoming black before the eyes. Pricking, burning, or itching sensations in the eyes are also frequently described. Occasionally the train of symptoms which ciiaracterise asthenopia may be so aggravated after a time as to give rise to more general disturbance, nausea, faintness, etc. The Causes of asthenopia are various. They may be grouped under three heads:—(1) Ke- fractive, (2) Muscular, and (3) Neurasthenic. 1. Refractive Asthenopia.—All anomalies of refraction may be the chief or sole cause of the various symptoms indicative of a more or less rapid tiring from reading or other near work. The state of refraction which is, however, most apt to be associated with such symptoms, is hypermetropia. A hypermetrope is obliged to exert a greater effort of accommodation in order to focus for the reading distance than an emmetrope or myope. But this greater effort is easily made where the amplitude of accom- modation is considerable as compared with the degree of hypermetropia. Such an increased effort could not well cause asthenopia in young- individuals with a low or moderate degree of hypermetropia. Yet the veiy frecjuent asthenopia of young hypermetropes is often ascribed to this cause, notwitiistanding that Donders long ago gave the true explanation of the association which exists between hyper- metropia and accommodative asthenopia. It depends upon what Donders called the 7-eIative as compared with the abaohUe amplitude of accommodation. The relative amplitude of accommodation is the measure of the total ciuinge which can possibly be made in the accommodative effort, whilst binocular fixation is maintained for a certain definite distaiice. For every distance of binocular fixation there is a corresponding degree of relative amplitude of accommodation. It is possible in every case to increase the accommodation so as to focus for a nearer point than that fixed binocularly, and also to I'elax the accommodation so as to focus for a point further off. The relative amplitude of accommodation may then be looked upon as composed of two parts—the positive and the negative. In the ideal condition of refraction, or emmetropia, the positive portion of the relative amplitude is much greater than the negative for binocular fixation at the ordinary reading distance. But if the emmetrope should try to read very close he soon finds that he gets tired : his eyes "give out." He is then working inider adverse conditions: not on account of any difficulty there may be to maintain convergence, but owing to the positive element of the relative amplitude of accommodation being then too small to admit of a sustained effort. In other words, he becomes, in fact, under the circum- stances, asthenopic. Even attempts made, after this tiring, to read at a distance which can usually be done without any conscious effort, prove more or less difficult. Before they can be renewed with comfort the eyes must be rested. What in the case of emmetropia applies only to unnecessarily near work is actually, or more or less approximately, according to the degree of hypermetropia, applicable to work done at the ordinary reading distance (H"-14") in that state of refraction. For the reading distance the hypermetrope has a smaller surplus of positive relative accommodation, i.e. less reserve to fall back upon, and therefore more readily tires. In a good light and with large print, or other objects capable of forming sufficiently large retinal images when held at some distance from the eyes, no undue effort may be ex- perienced. Under less favourable conditions, when, for instance, small jjrint has to be read and the illumination is bad, a hypermetrope, of even a low degree, may be troubled with symptoms of asthenopia. The symptoms most characteristic of this, the accommodative form of asthenopia, are a dull, tired, sometimes aching sensation in the forehead over the eyes and the " running to- gether " of print when reading. But any of the other sensations already referred to may be complained of. The symptoms come on sooner or later according to the degree of the hyper- metropia, the conditions under which the work is done, and the age and health of the individual. The first tendency, whenever the effort of accommodation causes a difficulty, is to remove the book or other object further from the eyes. For a time this suffices. 13ut the overstraining having once been necessitated often causes a similar difficulty to assert itself, under the new conditions, after the lapse of some time. All these symptoms disappear very soon after correction {vide Refraction) of the hyperme- tropia. Another form of refractive asthenopia is that connected with astigmatism. The symptoms characterising asthenopia from this cause are pain referred to the eyes or forehead, and often a hot or pricking sensation in the eyes. There is usually at the same time some congestion of the ocular conjunctiva, though rarely to any mai'ked extent. The lower degrees of astig- matism more frequently give rise to this form of asthenopia than do the higher. It is more common, too, in cases in which the cornea has its greatest curvature in the horizontal or nearly horizontal meridian. The cause of the asthen- opia appears to be pressure of the lids on the cornea. By such pressure an iniconscious effort is made to overcome the astigmatism. The symptoms pass off on correction of the astig- matism.