BONE, DISEASES OF 451 The cartilage composing the tumour fre- quently undergoeis degeneration. Myxomatous clianges result in softening of the cartilage into ii glairy semi-fluid jelly ; if this change takes place throughout the tumour, the latter may present the appearances of a cyst. On the other hand the cartilage maj' become harder from calcification and from conversion into bone, which may resemble that normally formed from cartilage more or less closely. The most im- portant transition of all is that of the chondroma into sarcoma, the so-called malirpmnt chondroma or chondro-sarcoma; it is associated with the reversion of the cartilage to an embryonic type and the acquisition of greater vegetative activity, so that it may reciu' on removal, and parts of it may be carried oft' in the blood stream and give rise to secondary gnnvths, especially in the lungs. Clinically the typical chondroma is met with as a visible, slowly growing tumour. It is espe- cially met with in the bones of the hand, often in a multij^le form. Its surface may be smooth or lobulated. Its consistence may be dense and elastic like normal cartilage, or it may present areas of softening or of bone-like hardness. The soft jjarts move freely over it, except in relation to the superficial bones of the fingers, where the skin may become adherent and ulcerate and suggest a malignancy which does not exist. In more deeply seated bones the cliondroma is not recognised so easily and may be confused with sarcoma. When of large size they may press upon nerves or upon vessels, and may interfere •with tlie movements of joints. Their origin may be ascribed to injury. Ac- cording to Virchow they are more often met with in those who have suffered from rickets during childhood. The Prot/nmia varies with the type of tumour : so long as they are innocent they are very inno- cent, and grow verj' slowly or may even become stationary. Anything like active growth is an indication of malignancy, and they are then very malignant. Ill the Treatment of chondromata it is neces- sai-y to insist on the removal of the whole tissue of the tumour, even although it appears to be innocent. In periosteal gi'owths, especially if they are pedunculated, this is comparatively easy, unless an entire bone such as the scapula is involved, in which case it may be better to remove the bone as a whole. In the case of central tumours the external shell of bone is to be removed over an area sufticient to allow of the enucleation of the tumour in the interior. It may be better practice to resect the aftected portion of bone, or even to amputate the limb segment, especially in the case of the fingers. Should there be any suspicion of malignancy, early and high am[)utation is the procedure reconmiended. Fibroma is chiefly met with as a periosteal growth from the bones in relation to the mouth and pharynx, of which tlie simple epulis of the gum and the naso-pharyngeal polypus are well- known examples. They may be very vascular and cellular, and may show all transitions to sarcoma, or they may be very fibrous, and they may luidergo partial conversion into bone. Their diagnosis and treatment belong to the special regions in which they are met with. Myxoma, Lipoma, and Angioma are all very rare. They may be periosteal or central. Their exact nature is seldom recognised unless they are subjected to operative interference. Sarcoma is the commonest tumour of bone, and is therefore of great clinical importance. Two main types are to be difterentiated accord- ing to their origin in the interior of the bone or from the periosteum. Central or medvllary sarcomata originate in the marrow, and replace the spongy bone in their vicinity without giving rise to any changes in the exterior of the bone for a variable period. At a later stage the bone becomes enlarged or " expanded" and the tumoiu- tissue may be merely invested by a thin shell of new periosteal bone, or may erupt into the surromiding tissues. The tumour tissue usually respects the articular cartilage of the adjacent joint. The type of tumour tissue varies : it may be a soft, rapidly growing, small romid-celled sar- coma, or a firmer, more slowly growing spindle- celled sarcoma (fibro-sarcoma), or it may present a marked tendency to undergo ossification (ossi- fying sarcoma), or its vessels may underg(.) special development, so that it may pulsate, or it may largely consist of large giant cells ; the latter, which has long been regarded as a sar- coma and been named myeloid, is now placed in a class l:)y itself, especially by French writers, liecause of its innocent characters. Wliere the cells are arranged in alveolar spaces in the stroma, the condition may merit the designation of alveolar sarcoma, but may be more accurately classified with the endothelio- mata. The softer and more rapidly growing sarco- mata are liable to midergo degenerative changes and pigmentation from haemorrhage. Licpiefac- tion of the tumour tissue may occur \\'\t\\ the formation of cyst-like spaces. Periosteal or yjer^J^Aera^ sarcomata originate in the periosteum, usually on one aspect of the lionc in the first instance ; later they tend to surround the bone and give rise to a spindle- shaped thickening or tumour. The tumom- tissue is most often spindle-celled, but may l)e I'ound-celled or mixed. They vary consideralily in their progress: some are characterised by their tendency to erode the bone imderneath, others l)y the amount of new bone which they may form ; this new bone may amount to an actual framewoi'k or skeleton for the growth ; it usually assumes the shape of spicules radiat-