ATKOPHY, INFANTILE 324 Atrophy, Infantile. Definition ...... 324 Etiology ....... 324 Symptoms ...... 324 Morbid Anatomy ..... 325 Diagnosis ...... 325 Treatment ...... 325 Medico-Legal . . ' . . . .326 Synonyms.—Marasmus, Malnutrition, Ath- BEPSIA. Definition.—" Infantile atrophy " is the name applied to a condition of extreme wasting, associated with gastro ■ intestinal disturbance, seen in infants under a year or eighteen months. The course of the disease is usually chronic and for the most part ends fatally. Both tuber- culosis and hereditary syphilis give rise to malnutrition, and this may become extreme before death, but neither of these diseases as causes of infantile atrophy need be considered here. As a matter of fact, the term " infantile atrophy" is usually reserved for those cases which are dependent upon the failure of the digestive organs to make good the wants of the body incident to life, while at the same time there is an absence of any organic disease, except perhaps a catarrhal or wasted condition of the alimentary tract. It must be borne in mind that between chronic dyspepsia with malnutrition and infantile atrophy there is no hard and fast line. Etiology.—The chief factors in the produc- tion of infantile atrophy are : (1) Constitutional weakness or want of vitality. Infants born prematurely are apt to become atrophic, or the parents are weakly, and the infant inherits a tendency to dyspepsia. Some serious illness, such as an acute attack of summer diarrhoea or pneumonia, may leave the infant prostrate; it never recovers its full powers of digestion and gradually passes into an atrophic state. (2) Feeding with improper- food.—Infants fed at the breast of a healthy mother never suffer from atrophy, at least, if the surroundings are favourable, but it may happen that an infant fed at the breast suffers from semi-starvation, if the breast milk is poor in quality and deficient in quantity. It is the artificially fed infant that becomes atrophic, especially those who are given stale milk, boiled bread, or other starchy foods ; and when once a condition of serious dyspepsia has been set up and the infant's digestion seriously weakened, it continues to waste in spite of more wholesome food being supplied. This is especially true of infants under three or four months of age. (3) Unhealthy surroundings.—The infant's digestion is undoubtedly influenced by its sur- roundings. The infant born in a back street breathes the foul air of crowded and badly ventilated dwellings, it is exposed to cold, it lies all day and night in contact with damp and filthy napkins, it is a stranger to fresh air and sunlight, and too often to all the numerous little attentions and care which are such im- portant factors in preserving health. Warmth, cleanliness, fresh air, sunlight, beyond dovibt, greatly influence the digestive process. In the majority of cases of infantile atrophy, bad food and unhealthy surroundings are the chief means in producing the disease. It is among the infants born in the crowded tene- ments of a great city that atrophy most abounds. It is among the inhabitants of the lowest quarters of our cities that illegitimacy and early and improvident marriages are commonest, and the infants Ijom are not only constitu- tionally weak, but the parents are poverty- stricken and ignorant, and the infant is only too likely to be reared and fed under the worst possible conditions. It may liappen, however, that as long as the infant is fed at the breast of its mother it thrives fairly well, and is able to resist the evil influences of its surroundings. But before long, perhaps, the mother has to go to work, or for some other reason begins to give it artificial food, and at once its troubles begin. It suffers from dyspepsia and wasting; various foods are tried, boiled bread, condensed milk, dried milk foods, but all to no purpose, it loses weight with startling rapidity, and when it is reduced to little else than skin and bone, it is brought as a last resort to the out-patient room of a hospital. In other cases there may be a history of the most troublesome indigestion from the first, or the infant was doing well till it was attacked by diarrhoea, and having passed through the acute stage began to rapidly waste instead of convalescing. Symptoms.—The early symptoms are those in connection with indigestion ; of these, some- times gastric, at other times intestinal, are the most prominent; there is frequent vomiting, or colic with distension of the abdomen, or the stools are liquid and frequent. The infant is restless and in constant discomfort, and wears out the patience of its friends. The most characteristic and constant symptom is a pro- gressive loss of weight. In a few cases there is gradual loss of flesh without any marked symptoms of dyspepsia. When the disease is well marked, the infant's appearance is very characteristic; the face is sunken from the absence of subcutaneous fat, the skin hangs in folds and wrinkles, giving it a look of old age quite foreign to an infant. The ribs and spinal prominences stand out plainly when the infant is seen stripped, the rounded abdomen contrasts strangely with the narrow chest, and the diaphragm is seen during inspiration to draw in the lower part of the chest wall. The extremities are wasted, the skin hanging loosely on the bones, the feet and hands are cold and of a purplish colour from sluggish circulation o blood. The skin has an earthy tint, and th