301 ASHBY-DE-LA-ZOUCHE Ashby-de-la-Zouche. See Balne- OLUGY {Great Britain) ; Mineral Waters {Muriated Saline). Ashinoya.. See Balneol(.)gy (Ja-pan). Askern. See Balneology {Great Britain); MiNKHAi, AVa'I'ers {Sulphur). AspalaSOmuS.—A teratological state in which there is a lateral or median eventration, affecting chiefly the lower part of the abdomen ; the urinary organs, the genitals, and the rectum open externally by three distinct orifices (as in the mole). Asparag'US. ^S'ee Invalid Feeding ( Ff^p- talihx) ; I'RINK, Pathological Changes (0(/oi«-). Asperg'illuS.—An ascomycetous fungus found as a parasite in the external auditory meatus, eye, and lungs. See Cornea {Kerato- Mycosis Asperr/illina); Ear, External, Diseases OF; Expectoration {Parasites) ; Lungs, Para- sitic Affections of {As^jergillosis); Mouth {Parasitic Diseases of the Jaic) ; Pneumonia, Clinical ; Suppuration. AspermatiSm.—Deficiency of semen, or incomplete ejaculation of it. See Scrotum AND Testicle, Diseases of {Steriliti/). Asphyxia. {Asphyxia neonatorum {apparent still-birth)— Resuscitation., Artificial Respiration.) Definitions ...... 301 1'heno.mena of . . . . .301 Causes of ..... . 302 Resuscitation ..... 302 Introductory . . . . .302 Methods 303 Adjuvants ...... 305 Directions for Special Conditions . 306 Still-born Children. Drowning. Irrespirable Gases. Chloroform Inhalations. See also Bronchi, Bronchitis ; Convulsions, Infantile ; First Aid ; Hysteria {Disorders of Circulation); Medicine, Forensic {Death from Asphyxia); Myasthenia Gravis; New-Born Infant (Asphyxia Neonatorum) ; Raynaud's Disease {Local Asphyxia); Sunstroke ; Thymus Cland. Definitions.—Asphyxia, which etymologically means pulselessness, is the condition of the organism when consciousness has ceased in con- sequence of defect in the aeration of the blood. In the middle of the century a persevering- attempt was made to replace the term, on the ground of literary accuracy, by apnrea (respira- tionlessness). Apnoea is now, however, the name definitely assigned to the condition in which the respiratory movements are suspended in consequence of ovei'-aeration of the blood. The two terms are thus assigned to contrasted conditions. For the intermediate conditions a graduated scries of terms is used. Eupna'a is the condition of easy normal respiration; hyperpntea, deejjened respiration, such as fol- lows on exertion; dyspnoea, respii'ation in which the accessory muscles are called into play, orthopnoea is that variety of dyspnoea in which the respiratory distress is increased in the horizontal position. The Phenomena of Asphyxia may be pro- duced rapidly, e.g. by si;dden obstruction of the trachea, or may develop grad^ially. When the trachea is suddenly occluded, there is (1) a period of quiet of from twenty to thirty seconds, longer or shorter according as the obstruction was made at the end of inspiration or expira- tion. Respiratory movements of both inspira- tion and expiration then follow, and rapidly increase in depth and rate, until about a minute after occlusion there are powerful convulsions, expiratory movements predominating. Ex- haustion gradually sets in, and the respiratory movements change to a more inspiratory type, and become slower, longer, and irregular, until they gradually cease. (2) The arterial blood- pressure begins to rise immediately on occlusion and reaches a point far above normal. From this it quickly falls until below normal, and then more slowly it approaches zero. Till the early part of the fall of blood - pressure the heart-beats are forcible and slow, but afterwards become more rapid and feeble, and at length, some time after the stoppage of respiratory movements, cease. The venous pressure also rises enormously as the result of the slowing of the heart, and this rise is increased l)y the con- vulsive contractions of the muscles. The right heart dilates under this pressure, and ultimately, from this and the weakening of the heart-move- ments and the malnutrition of the heart-wall from the venosity of the l)lood supplied to it, becomes engoi'ged. (3) Fully a minute after the occlusion, consciousness is lost, the sphinc- ters are relaxed and urine and fteccs are usually voided. The reflexes are aliolishod in succession and muscular tone is lost. Di the production, of the phenomena consequent on defective aeration of the blood, two factors are operative, a deficiency of oxygen and an excess of carbonic acid. The controversy as to their relative importance is not entirely closed, but it seems clear that each can produce the hyperpnoea, the rise of blood-pressure and the unconsciousness, with the cessation of respira- tor}'^ and later of circulatory movements, which ends in death by asphyxia. Carbon dioxide excess is operative even when there is so much oxygen present that the blood retains its arterial colour, and simple decrease of oxygen below half the normal proportion inaugurates a similar series of phenomena. At the close of