ALCOHOL 85 of beer there is as much albumen as in 120 grammes of milk, and as much carbohydrate as in 100 to 150 grammes of bread (von Leyden). Again, fermentation, which is due to the yeast- cells, or more probably, as recently demonstrated by Wroblewski, to their ferment or enzyme, is checked before the carbohydrate is completely split up into its terminal products alcohol and carbonic acid. The constituents of beer are :— Water—90 per cent. Alcohol—3 to 5 per cent. Organic acids (lactic, succinic, propionic, and traces of acetic) reckoned as lactic acid— 0-116 per cent in German to 0-31 per cent in English beer. Sugar—0-40 to 0-90 per cent. Maltose and dextrose—4 to 5 per cent. Albumen—0-37 to 0-8 per cent. Extractives—4-99 to 7-23 per cent. Carbonic acid—0-1 to 0-2 per cent. Ash—0-18 to 0-28 per cent. Small quantities of glycerine, and of the aromatic, oily, and bitter principles of hops, including lupidin. It will be seen that beer is less acid than wine, although its large percentage of carbohydrate may give rise during digestion to greater acidity. German beers are lighter as well as less alcoholic than those brewed in this country. Their percentage of extractives by weight is estimated at 4-82 for Pilsener beer, and at 5-8 for ordinary Munich beer, against 6-8 for Lon- don porter, and larger amounts for Burton ale and for Scotch ale. This explains their greater digestibility and their smaller tendency to pro- duce gout and an abnormal deposition of fat. Their fermentation conducted at a low tempera- ture and other differences in their mode of pro- duction may also partly account for the fact that they are Ijetter tolerated by delicate stomachs. Cider varies greatly in its proportion of alcohol and sugar, according to the degree of fermentation which it has undergone. Rough or hard cider is the more highly fermented variety. Perry is analogous to cider. Von Leyden gives the following percentages for cider: — Alcohol, 4-72; acidity (reckoned as malic acid), 0-54 ; sugar, 0-21 ; extractives, 2-34. Table of the Alcoholic Strengths of various Wines and Beers (Roscoe). Port (old bottled). . . 20-2 per cent. Port (newly bottled) . .17-4 „ Montilla sherry (18-34) . . 16-3 Fine Marsala ' . . .17-0 Madeira .... 16-1 „ Beaune . . . . 13'r) „ Oberingelheimer . . . 9'4 ,, Rudesheimer Assmannshauser . Chateau-Lafite Ordinary Bordeaux Johannisberger (1842) Auerbacher . Burton ale . Edinburgh ale London porter Munich lagerbier . Schenkbier . Berlin weissbier 9-2 9-1 8-7 to 8-7 8-1 8-4 5-9 to 6-1 to 6-9 . 5-1 3-8 1-8 to 2-0 per cent. 6-4 5-7 5-4 The Physiology of Alcohol General Physiology. — Action upon cells, metabolism, ferments, and bacteria.—Paralysis is the primary effect of alcohol upon protoplasm, which it deprives for a time of its irritability, contractility, and sensibility, probably by de- hych'ation. Metabolism is checked as a secondary result. All cells are affected, and none so much as the oxygen-carriers ; but, unlike hydrocyanic acid, a yet stronger cell-paralyser, alcohol only partially arrests the power of the red blood cor- puscles to attract and to yield up oxygen. Nerve-cells are specially susceptible in varying degrees; and the function of glandular cells is readily inhibited. Ferments are not destroyed, but carried down from their solutions by absolute alcohol with the coagulated albumens, or locked up in the hardened and shrunken tissues immersed in it, and may be kejjt indefinitely for future use. Artificial digestions are arrested. Bacteria exhibit in different measures a remarkable power of recovery from their tem- porarj' alcoholic paralysis, in the case of some of them, even when this is due to immersion in boiling alcohol. A microbe has been discovered which grows in " faulty " rum. The addition of alcohol to impure water probably does not cor- rect its infectiveness, though it may favourably modify the liability of the individual to infec- tion. The Fate of Alcohol in the Economy.—(1) Its abscjrption.—Alcohol is absorbed by mucous membranes, rapidly by that of the stomach and intestine, readily also by the respiratory mucous membrane when it is injected or inhaled into the trachea, by the blood-vessels and lymphatics when it is injected subcutaneously, and by open wounds. Its absorption through the unbroken skin is regarded as doubtful (Richet). (2) Its combustion.—According to Jaillet, acetic acid is formed in the red discs and rapidly burnt to CO.^, and aldehyde, one of the by-pro- ducts, may be recognised in the breath by its smell, whilst in the stomach dilute alcohol is pai'tially converted into acetic acid and acetates —a change which is impeded by concentration or by alkaline fluids. Hence water is a better check upon inebriation than alkaline table waters (Richet).