INTRODUCTION Vll economised, and the work, as a Dictionary, has its value increased ; for the medical practitioner is thus enabled to make the best use not only of the fresh facts which the Encyclopedia makes known to him, but also of the information which he already has stored up in his memory. The most important advances in medical and surgical practice which have been made during the two years which have elapsed since tlie Encijdo'pccd.ia Mcdica was com- pleted, have been incorporated in the EnciiclopcdAa-Bidkmarij: in some instances new articles have been written by authorities specially qualified to deal with tlie subject; iu other cases, the new drug or remedy or view appears under its own name and is cross- referenced into the original article ; and in a few cases a new paiagraph—clearly marked off by square brackets—has been appended to the section as it appeared in tlie Encyclo- paedia Medica. In this way the integrity and continuity of the original articles have been preserved, and yet new material has been made available. To economise space, the literature lists have been omitted. In this volume the Editor has made himself responsible for the whole of the dictionarial as distinguished from the encyclopedic material : has written most of the articles of less than thirty lines in length ; and has added the new matter within square brackets. He hopes to deal similarly with the volumes about to be issued. The promised Supplement to the Eticyclopccdia Mcdica will also serve as supplementary matter to the present work. It is intended to issue it as a Qidnquennium of Medicine and Surgery, the first to appear in 1908 (five years after the completion of the Encyclopaxlia Medica, and immediately after the issue of the present Dictionary). It is believed that if the Encyclopedia and Dictionary of Medicine and Snryery be used in the ways indicated above, it will prove of great service to the practitioner of medicine who wishes to keep himself abreast of the times, who is not content to rely entirely upon old plans of treatment, but is hopeful that among the many new ones some have superior merits, and who takes more than a parochial interest in the progress of Medicine, Surgery, Midwifery, and the Specialties. His subject never grows old ; it never, save to the doctor whose interests are all elsewhere, becomes unattractive; each ojieration performed, each illness treated, each confinement attended has its own features of interest, its own degree of failure, its own suggestion of better accomplishment. The true doctor never ceases to be a student; his curriculum is continuous, and, as his experience grows, his opportunities of relieving suffering and saving life are limited only by his bodily and mental strength, and by the span of his own existence. To such a medical man the Encyclopedia and Dictionary of Medicine and Surgery is prepared to play the triple role of Colleague, Assistant, and Consultant, so far as these parts can be played by a book. J. W. BALLANTYNE.