ABDOMEN, INJURIES OF 5 Nature of the Lesion.—Tlie lesion in the abdominal wall may consist of simple bruising ; considerable exti'avasation of Ijlood from lacera- tion of the parietal vessels ; ruptured muscle, chiefly the rectus; or the tissues may lie more or less pulpefied, and sloughing of the jiarts may ensue. The lesions of the viscera consist of bruising, or partial or complete rupture. Every abdominal viscus—solid and hollow—has been ruptured, but tliose situated more deeply, such as the pancreas and duodenum, are less commonly the seat of injury than those more superficially placed. The omentum, mesentery, and great vessels may also be torn; in the last case the veins ai-e moi-e often affected than the arteries, because of their thinner walls. Ruptures of the kidney, ureter, and urinary bladder are considered under their respective headings. Modifying Circumstances.—There are many conditions which modify the effect of injuries on the different organs. The liver, from its friability, its large size, and its fixation by liga- ments, is vei'y liable to rupture. Such viscera, as the stomach and bladder, which are more stretched and in closer apposition with the abdominal parietes when distended, ai-e more susceptible to injury than when in an empty condition. On the other hand, the intestines, by their free mobility, frequently escape from the effects of even severe blows. The presence of disease — such as malarious spleen, or the pathological softening associated with ulcera- tion or growths — renders the organs affected more liable to rupture. Laceration of the stretched ligaments, or partial or complete rupture of the uterus, may occur from injury during pregnancy. The more fixed the organ, and the greater the stretching of its ligamentous attachments (from distension, etc.), the greater its liability to injury. To this rule, however, the duodenum and pancreas, from their deep position in the abdomen, are notaljle exceptions. Causes of Death.—Ruptures of the solid viscera usually cause death from shock or luemorrhage, whereas ruptures of the gastro-intestinal tract are more often fatal from the occurrence of septic peritonitis caused by the diffusion of their contents. Many forms of bacteria are normally found in the stomach and intestines which, under favourable circumstances, multiply rapidly and assume an increased virulence. Of these organ- isms the Bacillus coli comminiis is the most im- portant, and it is chiefly owing to its presence that the peritonitis is due in cases of rupture of the gastro-intestinal tract. The escape of the contents of the liollow viscera (gall-bladder, urinary bladder) may also result in peritonitis, though their contents are usually sterile; but the inflammatory condition in these cases is a secondary result of the lowered vitality of the peritoneum, which allows the entrance of bacteria from the intestines into the escaped fluids, where they then multiply. Means of Protection.—The manner of protec- tion from injury of the various viscera has already been indirectly alluded to when speak- ing of their mobility or fixation, position in the abdomen, etc. The solid viscera are furtiier pro- tected by the bony walls of the thorax and by the spinal column, but a considerable portion of the intestinal tract is almost entirely de- pendent for its protection upon the resistance of the soft tissues only. This resistance varies to some extent with the thickness of the parietes ; but the most important protection is aft'orded by the contractions of the anterior abdominal muscles, which, in the case of a well-developed person, are capable of oft'ering a very powerful resistance to a blow for which there is time to prepare. The position of the body (such as flexion) by which the blow may fall on the bony walls of the abdomen, and the prepared- ness of the recipient of the injury when the anterior abdominal wall is struck, are amongst the chief means by which the abdominal con- tents are protected. Influence of Nervous System.—The connection of the numerous sympathetic plexuses in the abdomen with the cerebro-spinal nervous system is one of supreme importance in the production of the phenomena of shock in association with abdominal injuries; and the fact that the shock in these cases bears no necessary relationship to the severity of the lesion demands the most cautious treatment in all contusions and wounds of this region. Blows upon the epigastrium are specially serious; and death has taken place from such accidents, though no intra-abdominal lesion was discoverable. The speedily fatal issue under these circumstances doubtless results from profound irritation of the nerves of the subjacent solar plexus inducing a most intense form of shock ; but the mental effects of terror may be regarded as an important contributory factor in many instances. On tiie otlier hand, shock may be absent or markedly delayed in cases where an injury, incompatible with life, has occurred —of this there are nimierous examples. Symptoms and Diagnosis (General). — After the receipt of an abdominal injury the patient usually complains of considerable pain, and ex- hibits the phenomena of shock to a greater or less degree. There is an anxious expression of countenance and restlessness, the surface of the body is cold and clanmiy, the abdominal walls are rigid, the pulse is frequent and feeble, and the respirations are superficial. Great thirst is frequently complained of, and vomiting is a common and early symptom. The persistence of vomiting is indicative of visceral complications; and should it contain blood it is suggestive of a lesion of the upper part of the gastro-intestinal tract. Rain is frequently excruciating ; and, though