ACCOMMODATION 34 gained would lie much less than that in accom- modation. (5) Alteration in the curvature of the Lens.— If a bright light be held in front of an eye in a dark room with proj^er precautions, three I'e- flected images are visible : one image, distinct and upright, reflected fi'om the anterior surface of the cornea ; another, much smaller and in- verted, reflected from the posterior surface of the lens ; and a third image, larger and upright, but less easily seen, reflected from the anterior surface of the lens. When the eye accommo- dates, the image from the cornea does not change; that from the posterior surface of the lens is altered very slightly, or not at all, while that from the anterior surface of the lens becomes distinctly smaller. This observation proves that during accommodation a change takes place in the lens of such a nature that its anterior surface becomes more convex ; it further proves that there is no change in the curvature of the cornea, nor to any marked extent in that of the posterior surface of the lens. An increase in the convexity of the anterior surface of the lens necessarily causes an increase in the refrac- tive power of the eye. The question arises, can the whole of the accommodative power be accounted for in this way ? Knapp observed in four individuals the dift'erence between the curvature of the anterior surface of the lens when at rest and when in a state of extreme acconnnodation, and calculated the range of accommodation that might be expected. He then tested the actual range of accommodation and found that it corresponded fairly closely with the range calculated. We may take it, then, as proved that the change in curvature of the anterior surface of the lens gives a sufficient variation in refractive power to account for the whole range of accommodation. We must now consider how this change is bi'ought about. It is at present generally accepted that the change in shape of the lens is dependent upon the contraction of the ciliary muscle, but the exact manner in which this change is effected is still a subject of controversy. The older views, that the iris or ciliary body pressed on the lens and so caused the change in shape, are unten- able, since accommodation takes place in the absence of the iris, and the ciliary processes do not touch the lens. Before discussing the two theories put forward to explain the mechanism of accommodation, which have received most support, viz. those of Helmholtz and Tscherning, it will be well to tabulate the more important observations that have been made. (a) Changes in the Lens.—-Its anterior surface moves forwards about '5 mm. during accom- modation, and at the same time becomes more convex, its radius of curvature changing from about 10 mm. to 6 mm. Tscherning, from very careful oVjservations of images reflected from diff'erent parts of the anterior lens sm-face and from entoptic phenomena, came to the con- clusion that the increase in convexity was not uniform, but more in the centre than at the periphery. In many of his observations he followed the experiments of Thomas Young. He estimated that at the centime the radius of curvature changed from 10 mm. to 5 or 6 mm., at 1'4 mm. from the centre the radius was only 8 mm., while at the periphery the curvature was actually diminished. These observations have been confirmed by Crzellitzer. The radius of curvature of the posterior surface changes very slightly, possibly from 6 mm. to 5 mm.; the position of this surface is probably not altered. Hess and Heine have observed that the lens becomes more movable on. accommodation, and that it is displaced slightly in a direction determined by gravity ; this mobility was more marked in an eye under the influence of esei'in, which causes spasm of accommodation. In cases of rupture of the suspensory ligament the lens becomes more globular and the i-efraction of the eye more myopic. (6) Changes in, the Choroid.—Hensen and Volkers noticed a movement forwards of the choroid on accommodation, greatest in the region of the equator. (c) Changes in the Iris.—The puijil contracts with accommodation, and the iris is pushed for- wards by the bulging lens near its pupillary margin. Cramer and Tscherning describe a circular groove in the iris during accommodation near its attachment, with the concavity directed backwards. (6) Intraocular Tension.—Manometrical ob- servations, taken simultaneously in the anterior chamber and in the vitreous body, show no difference of pressure at these situations, during acconnnodation. But in cases of keratocele, recession of the bulging membrane of Descemet has been observed by some during accommoda- tion, which has been taken to indicate a relative fall of tension in the anterior chamber. (7) IwanofF describes a great development of the circular fibres of the ciliary muscle in hyper- metropes, who use their accommodation a great deal, and a very slight development in myopes, who use their accommodation very little. This change, however, is said not to be constant, and in nearly all mammals, whose mechanism of accommodation is probably the same as in man, the circular fibres are either absent or nearly so. Of the two main theories of accommodation, that of Helmholtz is the older and the one generally accepted. Theory of Helmholtz.—According to this, when the eye is at rest, the suspensory ligament is in a state of tension, and exercises traction on the anterior capsule of the lens, thereby causing this body to become flattened anteriorly. The ciliary muscle has its more fixed attachment in front,