527 BRAIN: CEREBELLUM, AFFECTIONS OF ill the article on intracranial tumours to make it unnecessary to refer to headache, vomiting, vertigo, optic neuritis, the effects on the pulse and respiration, and coma. Experimeiitfd physiology has taught us two facts with regjird to the cerebellum about which there can be no cavil; the one is that lesions of the organ result in disturbances of equilibration, and the other that the influence which the cere- bellum exerts on the muscles of the body is mainly at any rate direct, and not crossed as in the case of the cerebrum, so that a lesion on one side of the cerebellum is responsible for certain defects in the limbs mainly on the same side. Disease of the organ in man amply bears out the experimental findings in regard to the first of these points, but in regard to the second, evi- dence of a most conflicting character is forth- coming ; nevertheless it behoves us to keep prominently in mind during our clinical investi- gations that a direct relationship between the cerebelkim and muscles does exist, so that we may give due weight to any clinical evidence which appears to accord with this fact. It seems scarcely credil:)le that an organ, lesions of which commonly cause profound disturbances of e(|uilibration, may be the seat of the disease, with practically no indication that such exists; nevertheless this is so, and, more- over, experimental physiology prepares us for what would otherwise seem to be an anomaly. So rapid and so perfect is the process of com- pensation after acute lesions of the organ that we can understand how disease which produces its effects slowly may allow of substitution and compensation taking place pari passu with the effects of destruction, so that the symptoms expected of such lesions may never appear. The congenital and other forms of atrophy of the cerebellum may be thought to militate against this view, in that disturbances of equilibration are so common and so persisting in such cases ; but in reality that this is to be accounted for by the concomitant defects present in the cere- Virum, in these cases is proved by the experi- mental fact established by Luciani that com- pensation is not effected after cerebellar lesions if the sensorimotor cortex of the Rolandic region of the brain is also destroyed. Distu7-bances of Uqui/ibr-atioti.—Both the most common and the most characteristic symptom of tumours and other affections of the cerebellum is some disturbance of equilibration. The patient is usually unsteady on standing, and further evidence of loss of power of maintaining his equilibrium is manifested by the mode of his progression, as the unsteadiness is then at its maximum, and the patient reels and staggers like a drunken man. Such persons walk with their lower extremities far apart, and the move- ments of the limbs are performed in an irregular and hasty manner, as if attempting to prevent the tottering trunk from falling. There is usually no constancy with regard to the direction in which patients with cerebellar tumour tend to fall; sometimes it is to the side of the lesion, and sometimes to the opposite side, or it may be in a backward or forward direction. Moreover, there is often no uniformity even in the same subject, there Vicing a tendency to fall in different directions at difterent times. Rotation as a symptom of cerebellar tumour, though not unknown, is exceedingly rare. Forced movements which compel the patient to lie on one side, so that if he is placed on the other he immediately returns to his former position, are not quite so rare ; but there has been no con- stancy as regards the side on which the patient has been compelled to lie in consequence of the forced movement preventing him from lying on the opposite side. In fact the same patient has at one time in the course of his illness been compelled to lie on one side, and at some sub- sequent period it has only been possible for him to lie on the opposite side. These forced move- ments and rotation are indicative of lesions of the superior and middle peduncles of the cere- bellum more commonly than of the organ itself. Although both rotation and forced moA^ements are so rare, it is not so uncommon to meet with a fixed attitude which may be of some diagnostic significance; the head is inclined to one side, so that the ear and shoulder are approximated, while there is some rotation of the head, causing the chin to point to the side opposite to that to which the head inclines. There may also be lowering of the shoulder with slight curving of the spine, with the concavity of the arch on the side to which the head is tilted. Certain cases in man corroborate the experimental evidence on this point in that the tumour of the cerebellum lias been found on the side to which the head inclines, but the sign is robbed of much of its value by the fact that the neoplasm is sometimes found on the opposite side of the cerebellum, and in other cases in the cerebrum it may be in some part so far forward as to preclude the possiltility that the attitude is the outcome of pressure on the superior peduncle of the cerebellum. Tremor is not a common symptom in cases of cerebellar tumour; nevertheless it occurs in the head and limbs, especially the superior ex- tremities ill some cases. It may resemble that seen in disseminate sclerosis, and when unilateral, may affect the arm on the side of the lesion ; l;)ut too much reliance must not be placed on this sign in localisation; for in some of the recorded cases unilateral tremor has lieen on the side opposite to the lesion. J/oto^' Paralysis.—The majority of cases of tumour of the cerebellum are unattended by any detectable paresis or paralysis of the limbs, but in some cases such defects are met with. In some of the patients the distribution of the paralysis is hemiplegic, in others paraplegic, or