265 ARTERIES, DISEASES OF who suffer from chronic constipation, and during an attack of so-called " biliousness" in others. The conditions which detei'mine arterial tension need not be enumerated, for the essential element in all is the presence of substances which act as toxins, and whose primary action is to cause constriction of blood-channels. The irritation and constriction lead to capillary fibrosis in the kidney, and in the arterioles and smaller arteries to a hypertrophy of the muscle coat and a fibrous hyperplasia of the intima. The amount and the character of the poison must vary widely, and so the length of time covered by the development of marked arterial change must proportionately vary. This leads to the second proposition, namely, that diet must be an outstanding factor in determining the vito-chemical composition of the blood. To diet may be added malt and spirituous liquors of all kinds. This is not the place to consider in detail the problems here suggested, but a general proposition may be safely formulated, and it is this, that if the intake of food or of such liquids as have been referred to is greater tlian can be promptly and efficiently dealt with in the primary and secondary digestion of the individual, the vessels feel the strain, and if this be continued or frequently repeated structural changes follow. The food elements which are generally accepted as producing the most dele- terious substances belong to the nitrogenous or proteid group, so that whenever a tendency to arterial thickening is recognised, the supply of such food is to be I'educed to a physiological mininnmi. The precise quantity has to be determined for eacli individual. This again is influenced by certain constitutional tendencies, as the rheumatic and gouty dyscrasia. There can be little doubt tliat premature arterial change occurs in families, but we take it that it is not the tendency to arterial change which is inherited, but rather a want of vigour of primary or secondary digestion, including the various excretory processes. The present writer has been long convinced that common forms of indigestion and constipation are the frequent cause of premature arterial changes. It thus becomes a matter of ]irime importance so to direct our patients that these factors may be reduced to a minimum. Diet, exercise, thorough bowi>l evacuation, and the condition of the skin call for regulation as soon as the physician is given the opportunity of recognising the begin- nings of change. If prompt action is desirable, the medicinal means at our disposal are mercurial laxatives to empty the bowel, while alkalies and iodide of potassium are often beneficial. Where arterial changes are already pronounced much may be done to arrest their progress, although the vessels cannot be restored to a normal con- dition. This can be effected by the same line of treatment; and it is sometimes surprising to find how much of the thickening of arteries is not due to structural alteration, but to the con- dition which has been described here as hyper- tonus. When this hypertonus is marked or is suspected, the use of the nitrites is followed liy very marked improvement; iodide of potassium is also useful for this purpose; and we have also had good results from belladonna or its alkaloid. Arteries, Injuries of and Lig^a- ture of. Stkuc'iuke ...... 265 Injuries ...... 266 Injuries of Special Vessels . . . 267 Ligation op Arteries .... 268 Head and Neck . . . .269 Upj^er Extremity . . . .273 Abdominal Iliac, etc. . . . 275 Lmver Extremity . . . .277 See also Aneurysm ; Aorta ; Brain, Surgery OF; Embolism ; Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries (Wounds of Axillary Artery). Greek apT-qpia = windpipe. These vessels were by the ancients supjDosed to contain air, as they are generally found empty after death. This error was exposed by Galen, who, by opening the arteries in a living animal, proved that they contained blood. Structure.—The greater number of arteries are enclosed in a connective tissue sheath, to which the outer coat of the vessel is loosely connected by filamentous processes. So loose, however, is this connection that when an artery is completely divided transversely its cut ex- tremities retract for some distance within the sheath. Apart from this sheath it is customary to describe an artery as having three coats, external, middle, and internal. External coat [Tunica adventitia]. This coat is composed chiefly of dense connective tissue with some admixture of yellow elastic fibres. The elastic tissue is most distinct in arteries of medium size and forms a more or less definite layer between the external and the middle coats of the vessel. Middle Coat [Tunica media] con- sists of non-striated muscular tissue arranged in a circular manner round the vessel. From this disposition it follows that when the middle coat is ruptured it tears in a circular direction. The thickness of the artery is due chiefly to the middle coat. It is a fact of imjjortance that in the larger arteries there is a considerable ad- mixture of connective and elastic tissue in the tunica media. Hence the contractibility of the arteries which is due to the muscularity of this coat is far more marked in the smaller vessels, and diminishes as the artery increases in size, becoming quite inconsiderable in the largest arteries. Internal coat [Tiuiica interna]. Tiiis coat is thin, transparent, colourless, and brittle, so that it readily breaks, particularly in the