208 ANTHEMIDIS FLORES flowers are the capitula of the Anthemis nohilis, and they contain an official volatile oil (Oleum Anthemidis), given in doses of |^ to 3 m. From the flowers and the oil is prepared the Extractum Anthemidis, used, as a carminative, in doses of 2 to 8 grains. Anthoxanthum Odoratum.— Sweet-scented vernal grass, the pollen of which precipitates asthmatic attacks. See Asthma ; Hay Fever. AnthraCOSiS.—Black phthisis, a disease of the lungs caused by the inhalation of coal and stone dust, etc. See Lungs, Pneumonokoniosis ; and Liver, Diseases op. Anthrasol. — A colourless coal-tar de- rivative, recommended in the form of a 10 per cent alcoholic solution in pruritus, or as an ointment (10 per cent to 20 per cent) in eczema and prurigenous skin diseases. Anthrax.^ See also Food [Unsoundness); Malignant Pustule ; Micro-Organisms ; Milk {Pathological); Pneumonia, Clinical ; Post- mortem Methods. I. Generalities Definition.—Anthrax is an infectious disease caused by the " Bacteridie du Charbon" (Davaine), Bacillus anthracis (Cohn), which occurs in the blood of infected individuals, and is also found in the soil or on various other materials after these have become contaminated. Varieties.—This disease may be either local {e.g. malignant pustule) or general (general an- thrax). Infection takes place by inoculation or con- tamination of wounds (external or cutaneous anthrax), by inhalation (pulmonary anthrax), or by ingestion (intestinal anthrax). The last two varieties together are usually designated under the name of internal anthrax. Besides man a great many vertebrate animals are liable to the disease. Hoofed quadrupeds and rodents are, generally speaking, very susceptible ; man offers a greater resistance to the disease. Affinities.—Anthrax has many clinical and pathological features in common with diseases in which there is rapid invasion of the blood- stream by bacteria (so-called septicsemias). Synonymy and Homonymy. — The general disease is known under various names : Anthrax, anthrax septicemia, anthracmmia, splenic fever, charbon, sang de rate (sheep), maladie du sang (cattle), fievre charbonneuse (horse and other animals), Milzbrand. Names used in reference to some of the varieties are frequently loosely employed to designate 1 (This disease is now generally known under the name of anthrax. Since 1881 it has, however, been returned in the Registrar-General's Reports under the name of Splenic Fever.) the disease as a whole, e.g. wool-sorter^ disease, malignant pustule. Under the name of oedenie malin, ou oedeme charbonneux des paupieres. Bour- geois has described a form of cutaneous anthrax which differs from malignant pustule; this dis- ease must not be mistaken for that described later under the name of malignant oedema by R. Koch. Li former days the terms charbon symptomatique, or symptoviatic anthrax, were used to designate what was thought to be a variety of the disease. Cases of true anthrax have undoubtedly been frequently included under these names ; they are, however, reserved by modern writers for another disease which is known in England as quarter-evil, and in Ger- many as Rauschbrand, and is caused by the bacillus Chauvasi (Rauschbrandbacillus). Under the name of rag-sorter's, or picker's, disease (maladie des chifFonniers, Hadernkrank- heit) various foi-ms of infection by inhalation of dust are included; a proportion of these cases is attributable to infection by the bacillus anthracis. Historical Note.—The study of no other disease has done so much for the development of our present knowledge of the causation and prevention of infectious diseases of bacterial origin. It is impossible in this article to deal fully with the historical aspect of the subject; the reader must therefore be referred to more extended accounts, such as have been given by Heusinger, Bollinger, Straus, and Bell, among others. From descriptions given by various ancient writers ^ of outbreaks of disease occurring among the lower animals and communicable to man, it is probable that these epidemics were due to anthrax, and it is generally accepted that the disease is one of great antiquity. The char- acteristic features of splenic fever were, how- ever, not clearly described before the publication of the classical treatise of Chabert (1780). The descriptions given by that author are so accurate that the nomenclature and grouping adopted by him have been retained to the present day. Two of his varieties (Charbon essentiel and Charbon symptomatique) are, however, now known to correspond in the main to a separate disease {see "Synonymy"). In 1823 Barthelemy (aine) proved that anthrax is a disease communicable by inoculation and ingestion to several herbivora, and that carnivora offer a great resistance to infection. In 1850 Rayer, in conjunction with Davaine, observed filiform motionless bodies, the length of which was about twice that of the diameter of a red blood corpuscle, in the blood of a sheep which had been inoculated with some spleen ' References to epidemics of disease resembling closely Anthrax and probably identical with it have been found in the writings attributed to Moses, Homer (1000? B.C.), Lucretius (110 B.C.), Virgil (70 B.C.), Dionysius of Halicar- nassus (54 B.C.), Ovid (43 B.C.), Plutarch (50 A.D.).