118 AMBLYOPIA coma occurring in both eyes, in which the main defects are central or paracentral, might be mistaken for tobacco amblyopia. Here again, however, there are usually some ophthalmo- scopic appearances which indicate the existence of something else than a true central amblyopia. The field of vision is also in glaucoma of this type, a by no means common type, restricted in some directions peripherally. The differential diagnosis of tobacco amblyopia in all cases presenting any doubt will depend, therefore, mainly on the equality of the visual defect in the two eyes, together with the absence of the ophthalmoscopic changes. Concomitant Conditions.—In making the sub- jective examination it is, however, necessary to bear in mind that certain concomitant conditions may modify the results obtained. An inequality of defect in the two eyes may be due to different conditions of refraction, to corneal nebulae, to changes in the deeper part of the one eye, or to some congenital weakness, the cause of which may not be apparent, but as to the existence of which there may be a sufficiently definite history. In testing for the scotoma with small green or red objects it may sometimes be found that a difficulty may be experienced in detecting any greater defect of vision for these colours than that which exists in the more peripheral portion of the field. This is the case where there is congenital red - green confusion, or so - called colour blindness, a condition which, as might be supposed from its frequency, is not so very rarely found to co-exist with tobacco amblyopia. In such cases, instead of using test objects of green or red, all that is necessary is to make use of yellow or blue ones. As, however, there is relatively less defect for these colours, the test objects used should be smaller, or less saturated, or the test with them made at a greater distance from the eye. The scotoma can in all cases be demonstrated and mapped out by using even a white object, if the same point be attended to, viz. what is essentially the question of the size of the corre- sponding retinal image. This must be much smaller than that formed of a coloured object, to admit of the object being recognised in its proper colour, as in this case one is practically testing the form-sense, or acuity, and not the colour-sense. Prognosis. — In an uncomplicated case of tobacco amblyopia the prognosis, quoad cceci- tatem, is always good. Complete blindness never takes place, although in some exceptional cases the central scotoma, which is a relative one, may become nearly absolute. The pro- gnosis, quoad restitutionem, depends upon how far the patient has given up the use of tobacco, upon the length of time the poison has been acting, and upon certain conditions of general health. As a rule four to six weeks elapse after giving up tobacco before any very definite im- provement begins. Sometimes even it is found that the patient seems worse for a week or two. The effect of the cumulative poison has not necessarily reached its height when treat- ment has been begun. After improvement has begun, however, it is usually rapid, so that in two to six weeks afterwards the vision may be practically normal, though there often remains for long some demonstrable defect in the light- sense. In cases in which recovery is unusually slow it will generally be found that tobacco has not really been given up. Where there is diabetes, however, recovery may, apart from this, be slow and incomplete. Again, in very long-standing cases even abstinence may not lead to complete recovery, though some improve- ment may be expected in the course of time. Treatment.—The main treatment consists in stopping tobacco. Although a diminution in the amount consumed or the substitution of a lighter quality may suflice to permit of recovery, it is always well to advise the giving up of smoking altogether. In some cases, without any change in the amount consumed, and merely as the result of some improvement in general health, the amblyopia may pass off. This, how- ever, should not influence one in counselling abstinence. In addition, some tonic treatment is usually advisable. This should include strychnine. Strychnine appears to lessen the crave for tobacco. During the first four weeks trinitrine may be tried in doses of the 2-^^ gr. twice or thrice daily. Afterwards iron in some form is useful. Lead Amblyopia and Aj\iAURosis.~In cases of chronic lead poisoning various retinal changes are met with, accompanied with corresponding- symptoms. These cases, however, do not properly come under the category of amblyopia in the sense in which it is here understood. Occasionally, however, there does seem to be some defect, mainly, too, of the central portion of the field, caused by chronic lead poisoning, which is at first altogether vmaccompanied by ophthalmoscopic changes. In these cases the prognosis is bad. Further deterioration of vision, with changes in the optic nerve and retina, follow. There is a form of amaurosis due to lead which is interesting in that, notwithstanding the complete blindness of both eyes, recovery almost invariably takes place. There can be little doubt that in such cases the blindness is caused by alteration of some kind in the visual centres. The poisoning has been supposed to be ursemic. Usually there are other marked symptoms of severe cerebral disturbances, accom- panying the amaurosis. Uremia, as a cause of amblyopia, or of even complete blindness, is met with either as a com- plication along with retinal changes, or alone. Where, in the course of an albuminuric retinitis,