488 BRAIN, TUMOURS OF relation to the pathology of cerebral tumours, it is essential to remember that in the adult, at any rate, the skull is practically a closed cavity whose walls are rigid and allow of no expansion. It thus follows that anything added over and above the normal contents of this cavity, which is already full, must of necessity make room for itself at the expense of all other structures con- tained in the cavity. Tumours accordingly occasion deleterious effects by their pressure on the brain tissue, the nerve roots, and the meninges. They no doubt make some room for themselves by destroying the nerve elements in the part they are growing, but sooner or later the tumour grows out of proportion to the amount of local destruction which it causes, and thus parts at a distance must of necessity suffer from its pressure. A tumour in one cerebral hemisphere does not merely exert its influence on that half of the brain, but, in virtue of the imperfect septum provided by the falx, it makes its effects felt on the opposite hemisphere also. So too a tumour situated below the tentorium of necessity produces the most serious consequences on adjacent structures, such as the cerebellum, pons, medulla, and certain of the cranial nerves, but it also has a serious effect on the cerebrum, in spite of the septum provided by the tentorium, owing to the increase of fluid in the lateral ventricles which is especially liable to occur in these cases. This leads me to speak of another way in which the contents of the skull are hampered for room in some cases of cerebral tumour, viz. by increase of the fluid in the lateral ventricles, consequent on dropsical effusion, the result of impediment to the return flow of blood from the choroid plexuses through the veins of Galen, together with interference with the exit from the ven- tricles. The lateral ventricles dilate to accom- modate the increasing amount of fluid, their increase in size, of course, taking place at the expense of the brain tissue. These pressure effects, however induced, of necessity derange the functions of the nerve elements, and are responsible for many of the symptoms to which cerebral tumours give rise. That to the increase of intracranial pressure is to be largely ascribed the general symptoms which result in these cases is proved by the fact that on trephining the skull, and thus relieving intracranial pressure, these general symptoms either disappear or are much mitigated. Leonard Hill's experimental observations lead him to conclude that the brain does not transmit pressure equally in all direc- tions, and that the cerebro-spinal fluid cannot transmit a local rise of pressure to other parts of the brain. This observer regards any patho- logical increase of cerebral pressure as of circu- latory origin; there is, according to him, a rise of capillary to arterial pressure at the seat of lesion consequent on obliteration of veins and capillaries by the foreign body. Moreover, it is not to mechanical pressure, but to cessation of blood - flow that he attributes the symptoms of compression, and anaemia of the spinal bulb is regarded as the cause of the major symptoms of this kind. The question of the relation of increase of intracranial pressure to optic neuritis is very complicated. Some attribute the condition of the optic papilla to increase of intracranial pressure, while others contend that the neuritis is the result of the spread of a process of tissue irritation to the optic nerves, which sets up an intense inflammation when it reaches the papilla. Neither view alone is wholly satisfactory; for, on the one hand, attempts to increase intra- cranial pressure experimentally fail to produce optic neuritis, while, on the other hand, relief of intracranial pressure by trephining is fol- lowed by subsidence of the neuritis when there is no reason to suppose that any irritative pro- cess acting before is not still in operation. There are symptoms which may persist in spite of any measures adopted with a view to relieve intracranial pressure; they are of two kinds, the one pointing to some local disturb- ance of function, while the other is indicative of a widespread derangement. The former group of symptoms is to be ascribed to the local effects of the neoplasm, whether those effects be of an irritative or destructive nature; in short, they depend on direct interference with the nerve elements by means of the tumour. The latter group, on the other hand, appears to depend on some irritative condition which spreads far beyond the limits of the neoplasm, either owing to disturbance of the vascular and lymphatic circulations in the brain, or by the dissemina- tion of irritative products derived from the new gi'owth. Symptoms.—The symptoms to which intra- cranial tumours give rise may be conveniently considered in two groups, general and localising, though lao hard and fast line separates the two, for under certain circumstances one or other of the general symptoms may have a localising value. The manifestations are usually gradual in onset; but it sometimes happens that the onset is sudden, and in some cases, but for the possible detection of optic neuritis, the pheno- mena are indistinguishable from those which result from vascular occlusion or rupture. General symptoms are such as are common to intracranial tiuuours, irrespective of their pre- cise seat, while localising symptoms are those which indicate more or less definitely the actual seat of the neoplasm. Of the general symptoms, headache, vomiting, and optic neuritis are prominent, while con- vulsions, giddiness, and mental disturbance belong to the same category. It must not be supposed that all of these symptoms, or even the first three mentioned, of necessity occur in every case of intracranial tumour, for, on the