496 BRAIN, TUMOURS OF situated elsewhere. The part in which such convulsions commence may indicate the seat of lesion, but when a destructive lesion is present the paralysis indicates the precise seat of the tumour, while the convulsions originate in parts contiguous to this. Moreover, some parts of the cortex appear to be more prone to discharge than others, so that even with a tumour situated at some distance from them they may, neverthe- less, be the iirst centres to discharge, as is the case in regard to the centres which are con- cerned with the movement of the head and eyes to one side, and those which have to do with the movements of the thumb and fingers. This being the case, the evidence obtained from con- vulsions has to be discounted when the dis- charge begins in any such highly sensitive centres. Convulsions which begin locally may remain limited to the part first in a state of spasm, or they may spread so as to involve the whole of the side, or may subsequently become bilateral. Instead of the cortical discharge manifesting itself by muscular spasm, it may only engender a subjective sensation of some kind which may spread up a limb and ulti- mately involve the whole of one side of the patient before any convulsions appear. Such sensory discharges are as good evidence of the seat of lesion in the centres which are concerned with the movements of the limb as if the initial phenomenon had been a muscular spasm. In some cases one of the special sense centres may be the seat of discharge, in which case the evidence thus supplied as to the locality of the tumour is that to be relied on rather than any information derived from any subsequent con- vulsions that may result. There may be loss of sense of position in the paralysed limbs, but this is not of any very great value as a sign of disease of the cortex, in that it also occurs when the lesion is in the internal capsule. Common sensibility is aff"ected in a way that it is im- portant to recognise. There is slight blunting to tactile impressions in the parts paralysed, and the apex of the limb suffers in greater degree than do the proximal segments; more- over, patients the subjects of such defect refer erroneously impressions which they do perceive, so that a touch on the backs of the fingers is perhaps referred to the back of the hand, while one on the latter situation is referred to some part of the forearm. Crura Cerebri.—The evidence on which we rely for the localisation of a tumour in the crus is alternate hemiplegia characterised by affec- tion of the limbs, and it may be the lower part of the face on the opposite side, while the muscles supplied by the third nerve are paralysed on the side of the lesion. When the third nerve is completely paralysed there is ptosis, external strabismus, and mydriasis; but there may be only a partial affection of the nerve, in which case the levator palpebrse and the internal rectus are most liable to be affected. Both third nerves may suffer in consequence of in- volvement of both crura by the growth, in which case the limbs on both sides may be affected. Instead of paralysis, the motor defect in the limbs in some cases is ataxic, while in others tremor has been present. Ansesthesia of the opposite side of the body does not usually result when a tumour involves the tegmentum, no doubt because new growths tend so much to displace rather than destroy the nerve elements. Pons.—The characteristic sign of a pontine lesion is alternate paralysis, in which the limbs are affected on the opposite side and the parts supplied by the fifth, sixth, or seventh cranial nerves on the same side as the tumour. Affec- tion of the auditory nerve is exceptional. The most common form of these alternate hemi- plegias is that in which there is facial paralysis of peripheral type on the side of the lesion and paralysis of the limbs on the opposite side ; but in order to bring about this coiadition of things the tumour must be situated in the lower half of the pons, so as to involve the nucleus or the roots of the facial nerve as they emerge from the nucleus. When the roots of the sixth nerve are affected, there is paralysis of the external rectus on the same side, with inability to turn the eye out; but if the sixth nucleus is involved, there is in addition affection of the internal rectus of the opposite eye, in so far as it is con- cerned in the act of conjugate turning of the eyes to the side of the lesion. In the paralysis which results from such a lesion, the eyes may be turned slightly to the opposite side, but in any case the patient is unable to turn them to the side of the lesion. Although affected in this way, the internal rectus usually retains its power of acting with its fellow on convergence. When a tumour irritates instead of destroying the sixth nucleus, spasm of the muscles may turn the eyes towards the side of the lesion. In the event of the fifth nerve being affected, its sensory portion is more liable to suffer than is its motor division, but not uncommonly both are affected, so that there results antesthesia of the face on the same side ; it may be preceded by neuralgic pains of similar distribution, and paralysis with atrophy of the muscles of mastica- tion on the same side. In so far as the paralysed limbs may be ansesthetic, in some cases there may be a crossed hemiansesthesia in which the face is affected on the side of the lesion and the limbs on the opposite side. Bilateral symptoms frequently occur as a result of tumours in the pons, either owing to secondary involvement by pressure on, or extension to, the opposite side of the organ when the growth is originally uni- lateral, or owing to the neoplasm commencing near the middle line. In such cases there may be bilateral paralysis of the limbs and tongue in addition to similar implication of the fifth,