ARTERIES, LIGATURE OF 278 in the adductor magnus muscle, which it pierces to become the popliteal artery below. One and a half inches below Poupart's ligament, the artery frequently here called the common femoral trunk divides into the superficial femoral artery, which continues the course of the parent vessel, and the arteria profunda femoris, which is chiefly spent in supplying the muscles of the thigh. The surface guide to the common and super- ficial femoral arteries is furnished by a line drawn from a point midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis to the adductor tubercle, the limb having been rotated outwards and abducted. In the upper four inches of its course the artery common femoral (above) and superficial femoral (below) lies in Scarpa's triangle, uncovered by any muscle, and here the vessel can be readily felt and compressed by the fingers. At the apex of Scarpa's triangle the sartorius muscle passing from without inwards overlies the vessel and continues superficial to it during the whole of the remainder of its coui'se. Under cover of the sartorius the artery lies in Hunter's canal, in which also are contained the femoral vein and the internal saphenous nerve. The femoral vein is throughout closely applied to the artery. At Poupart's ligament the vein lies internal to the artery, then as the artery descends the vein passes in a backward direction and slightly out- ward, so that at the apex of Scarpa's triangle it lies behind the artery, and in Hunter's canal it is placed to, its outer side. The deep femoral vein, one and a half to two inches below Pou- part's ligament, crosses behind the artery. Relation to Nerves.—In the groin the anterior crural nerve is placed external to the artery. Near the apex of Scarpa's triangle the internal cutaneous nerve crosses the artery, and in Hunter's canal the internal saphenous nerve lies in front of the vessel. Ligature of the Common Femoral Artery is an operation very seldom performed, as, though the artery is easily accessible and readily tied, experience has proved that ligature of the external iliac artery is less dangerous. Second- ary haemorrhage and gangrene of the limb have occurred with remarkable frequency after ligation of the common femoral artery. For aneurysm situated on the superficial femoral artery in its upper part, the external iliac is always to be tied in preference to ligature of the common femoral. For wound of the common femoral artery, however, in accordance with what has been above mentioned, the wounded artery itself must be doubly ligated, especially as ligature of the external iliac fails as a rule to arrest bleed- ing from the common femoral artery. Operation.—A 3-inch incision in the course of the vessel is so made that one inch lies above Poupart's ligament, and two inches below it. The skin and superficial fascia are divided, and the lymphatic vessels and glands and the saphena vein and its tributaries are carefully avoided. Next the fascia lata is incised verti- cally, and tlie femoral sheath opened and the artery isolated as near to Poupart's ligament j {i,.e. as far above the profunda femoris branch) 1 as possible. The vein lies to the inner side j isolated from the artery by a septum of the j femoral sheath. The aneurysm needle is there- \ fore to be passed from within outwards, avoiding j the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve \ which here lies in front of the artery. The artery may also be reached by an incision | parallel to and half an inch below Poupart's J ligament, but this method is inferior to the j incision in the line of the artery. i Ligature of the Superficial Femoral j Artery.—This vessel may require ligation for ! aneurysm of the popliteal artery, for wound of j the vessel, or for hsemorrhage lower down in the i limb. In every case in which the surgeon can select the site of ligature, this is to be performed at the seat of election, viz. at the apex of Scarpa's triangle. This is one of the most successful ligations of large vessels in surgery. Ligature of the Femoral Artery at the apex of Hcarpja's triangle.—The thigh being everted and ' the knee and hip flexed, an incision, 3 inches in length, is made in the line of the vessel with its centre placed 4 inches below Poupart's ligament. The superficial and deep fascise are divided, and the inner margin of the sartorius muscle demon- strated as it crosses the lower half of the line of incision. The muscle is then drawn outwards, and the sheath is exposed and opened on its antero-external aspect, care being taken to avoid the long saphenous nerve. As the vein lies behind, and somewhat internal to, the artery, the aneurysm needle should be passed from within outwards, and great care must be taken to avoid injury to the vein, an accident of serious import and comparative frequency. Ligature of the Femoral Artery in Hunter's Canal.—A 4-inch incision is made in the line of the vessel in the middle of the thigh. The skin, superficial fascia, and fascia lata are divided in the whole length of the wound, care being taken to avoid injury to the internal saphena vein, which, if seen, is to be drawn aside. The sartorious muscle which overlies the artery is recognised by the direction of its fibres (down- wards and inwards), and is drawn inwards. The strong aponeurotic covering of Hunter's canal is exposed, and slit up with caution, the pulsation | of the artery having been previously made out. The artery is now seen having the vein on its postero-external aspect, whilst the long saphenous nerve crosses superficial to the vessel from with- out inwards. The aneurysm needle is to be passed from without inwards. Collateral circulation after ligation of superfi- cial femoral artery. 1. Descending branch of external circumflex