ABDOMEN, INJURIES OF 10 (a) Non-penetrating Wounds (General He- marks).—These injuries do not present any very special features, beyond the fact that blood or pus may burrow extensively among the mus- cular planes. The phenomena of shock are as variable in these cases as they are in con- tusions of the abdomen. The essential point is to be certain that the wound does not involve the peritoneum; and, if necessary, the wound must be enlarged in order that all doubt may be removed. To ascertain this point the tissues must be carefully divided in following up the track of any instrument; and in so doing, we may be aided by the charred condition of the parts in gunshot wounds. All such examina- tions should be conducted with strict antiseptic precautions, lest any septic material should inadvertently be carried into the peritoneal cavity. The finger is the safest probe. Treatment.—Wounds of the parietes outside the peritoneum are treated upon ordinary principles; but it is desirable that every effort should be made to secure union by first inten- tion, and so lessen the tendency to ventral hernia from the subsequent stretching of the cicatrix. All divided muscles or aponeuroses, in the larger wounds, should therefore be accurately drawn together with catgut, and drainage-tubes avoided if possible. Where the wound cannot be satisfactorily cleansed of dirt, or septic material, it may be partially left open, in order that all inflammatory exudation may freely escape. The muscles should be kept at rest, as far as possible, by the application of strapping over the dressings. If the wound is a large one, rest in bed is necessary for about three weeks, and silkworm- gut stitches may be left till the end of this period, unless they are setting up inflammation. An abdominal belt should be worn for some months after the wound has healed. The occurrence of suppuration must be met by early and free incision, on account of the tendency of the pus to burrow between the muscTilar planes {vide "Abdominal Abscess"). When due to the presence of a foreign body, such as a bullet, this should be removed. Haemorrhage in this region must not be trifled with, or considerable extravasation may occur. It is most important in all cases where there is free bleeding to open up the wound, as far as may be necessary, in order to secure the vessel in the ordinary way. Non-penetrating wounds, complicated by rup- ture of the viscera, must be treated in the manner already considered for similar lesions compli- cating contusions. {h) Penetrating Wounds.—These injuries are generally caused by stab, puncture, or gunshot wounds. General Considerations. — Stab wounds are less often complicated by visceral injuries than gunshot wounds; the rapidly moving bullet goes through every viscus, whether full or empty, whereas the slow-moving instrument associated with a stab wound may push an empty viscus aside. Bullets passing through the lower abdomen, from side to side, are more serious than those travelling in an antero-posterior direction; it has been calculated that, in these cases, four to fourteen perforations of the intestine may occur. Stab wounds are generally larger than bullet wounds, and consequently we find prolapse of the omentum and viscera is more common in the former. Any of the abdominal viscera may be injured; but, for obvious reasons, the omentum and small intestine are most often wounded. Death commonly results from htemorrhage in cases of penetration of the solid viscera or lai'ge vessels, and from septic peritonitis in wounds of the gastro-intestinal tract. Septic peritonitis is produced by the escape of the intestinal con- tents ; but this extravasation by no means always occurs. It may be prevented by the mutual pressure of the coils of intestine, until the formation of adhesions shuts off the general peritoneal cavity from further chance of con- tamination ; or, in wounds under a thii'd of an inch in length, the perforation may become temporarily plugged by everted mucous mem- brane until pi'cventive adhesions have formed. The edges of a gunshot wound are, however, so liable to undergo sloughing that a secondary perforation usually occurs, even though the wound has been closed for a time by plastic lymph. Symptoms.—Shock and pain are as variable in penetrating wounds involving the viscera as they have been seen to be in contusions of the abdomen with intra-abdominal complications. Generally speaking, however, penetrating wounds of the viscera — as in subcutaneous- rupture of these organs—are accompanied by a more or less severe shock which tends to persist. Vomiting is common, and the ejected material may contain blood—a valuable piece of evidence if the wound is in the region of the stomach. Blood in the stools, or in the urine, may also afford some indication of the character of the penetrating wound. The abolition of the normal liver dulness, as a sign of intestinal perforation, is as unreliable as we have seen it to be in con- tusions complicated by visceral injuries. So, too, emphysema of the parietes in the neighbourhood of the woimd is rare, and not conclusive evidence of penetration of viscera; for it may occur in any oblique wound, by the movements of respiration, apart from any gastro- intestinal perforation. It is clear, then, that most of the symptoms which may accompany penetrating wounds ai'e uncertain indications of the amount of internal