380 BLACKWATER FEVER may occur without the administration of quinine. Later, the haemoglobinuric infection being seemingly spent, tlie administration of quinine, even in large doses, never causes it again, as it previously seemed to do. Thus we see that the connection of quinine to blackwater fever is not one of cause and effect, but merely one of coincidence. But the fact which cuts this theory at its very root is that blackwater fever breaks out at times in veritable epidemics amongst the natives of intertropical Africa, who are recognised to enjoy a certain immunity against malaria, and who certainly do not take quinine. The oldest and more widely accepted theory is that which considers blackwater fever to be the manifestation of a specially intense attack of "malaria." The admirable studies of the Italian school (Golgi, Marchiafava, Celli, Bignami, and others) which isolated tertian fever and quartan fever from the intricate group of so-called "malaria" made it evident years ago that blackwater fever had nothing to do with these two diseases, and it was argued, therefore, that it must be a mani- festation of severe festive - autumnal infection. But now we know that several diseases are con- founded under the most inappropriate name of summer-autumn fever. In Italy Grassi and Feletti distinguish three separate parasites in this group. Careful microscopical studies in other regions will probably lead to the discovery of other varieties, the existence of which may already be surmised from the different clinical features which the fevers of various places assume. We are therefore led to the conclusion that htemoglobinuria cannot be the manifesta- tion of a more intense attack of all and any of the already differentiated diseases, but that it is the peculiar and constant characteristic of one specific and as yet undetermined parasite. Recent studies in " malarial" and other diseases have taught us that each species of parasites gives rise to peciiliar symptoms which are always the same in kind, and differ only in degree. The difference in symptoms between tertian, quartan, and the ordinary malignant tertian of most tropical countries (sestivo- autumnal infection) is small when compared with that which exists between any of these diseases and blackwater fever. To expect a different symptomatology in a more severe attack of summer-autumn fever is not in accordance with fact. In the most per- nicious cases of summer-autumn fever we never find the symptoms peculiar to blackwater fever, and, on the other hand, all cases of blackwater fever, however grave, however mild, always exhibit the very same symptoms, with no other difference than that of intensity and dura- tion. Blackwater fever is extremely liable to re- lapses. Each relapse will be usually milder than the previous one, but they will all exhibit the very same symptoms of the original attack, thus proving, in the most evident manner, that to believe a mild relapse of blackwater fever to be a more severe attack of sestivo-autumnal infection is an untenable paradox. The reasons that led to the belief that black- water fever was a manifestation of a more intense infection of " malaria " are— 1. The disease is found in malarious regions. 2. It attacks those who have previously suffered from malarial diseases. 3. The parasites of malaria have been found in the blood of blackwater fever patients. We have already stated that, though co- endemic in several places, blackwater fever and the malarial diseases have their peculiar geo- graphical distribution. That those who have suffered from ordinaiy forms of malaria are chiefly attacked by black- water fever is certainly no proof of the identity of the two diseases. We do not believe tuber- culosis to be a peculiar manifestation of typhoid fever simply because it frequently follows in its wake. Experience has taught us unmistakably that if at the fall of the rainy season we send to the Congo or to the lower Shire or to Lake Nyassa a man who has suffered from malaria in India, China, or Australia, he will contract blackwater fever almost to a certainty, but that he will run no such risk however long he re- main in the malarious districts of Asia and Australia. The fact that malarial parasites have been found in the blood of patients suffering from blackwater fever is no better proof of identity. That we should find the tertian, quartan, and " festivo-autumnal " parasites in blackwater fever is what might be expected, for the ordinary malarial diseases and blackwater fever are in many places co-endemic, and, all being debili- tating diseases, one predisposes to the active manifestation of a latent infection of the others. No one would believe anchylostoma duodenale, tasnia saginata, or filaria noctivrna to be the cause of blackwater fever simply because they had been found in a blackwater fever patient. The very fact that both hmmamoeha vivax and the parasites of the summer-autumn group have been found greatly invalidates the theory of regarding any of them as the causative agents of liBemoglobinuria. Several observers noticed that the parasites which they most frequently found in cases of blackwater fever differed somewhat from those described by authors in malarial diseases, and they suggested that the parasites of htemo- globinuric fever might be a variety of the ordinary ajstivo-autumnal parasites. It seems to me that their descriptions of the parasites found in blackwater fever correspond exactly to those of the hematozoa found by