407 BLINDNESS form the guides. One of these strips, which is placed underneath the paper, is marked on the surface V)y two rows of groups of little pits, six pits in each group, corresponding to the possible points in the letters. The second strip, which is placed over the paper, is pierced by two rows of oV)long apertures corresponding to the groups of pits. Writing is carried out by means of a THE BRAILLE ALPHABET AND SOME CONTRACTIONS 1st line 2nd line 3r(l line 4tli line U nntu ( ell I eliild 1 , Qots rcpi [^rjt, 11 \j Liiu points of the Braif 1' Ipttpri B C D E F G H I J but Christ every IVolil Ood liave Jesus • - • • • • • ■ • • • • • ' • ' • • • • • L N 0 p Q R S T Lord not |„.n|.l.. quite right some that • • • • • • • • • ■ ■ a • • • - • ■ V X Y 7, and for ol the Witll very • • • • • ■ • • ■ • • • • • • • sli t)l wl, ed on o\v w slKlll tliis wliich will • - • • • • • • • • • ■ ' • • - • • • • • • blunt awl, which carries a little cap of paper before it into the little pits corresponding to the letter to be formed. When the paper is turned over, these are felt as little prominences. The READING is performed from left to right, conset]uently the writing, being done from the back of the paper, is from right to left; but this presents no practical difhcidty once the pupil has caught the idea that in reading and writing alike he has to go forward. When two lines have been written the brass guides are slipped down the paper and two more are written in the same manner. For communicating witli the outer world, Mr. lllingworth, headmaster of the Edinburgh Blind School, has recently recommended a very inexpensive typewriter which, he finds, answers the purpose satisfactorily. This is called the "Simplex," costs only 12s. 6d., and can be fitted with Braille characters, while it prints in Roman letters in ink. For printing, thin sheets of brass are embossed either by hand, as in writing on paper, or by an ingenious machine like a large typewriter, which embosses two sheets of brass at a time. This machine has only six keys corresponding to the six points of the letters, and by pressing the appropriate keys the desired letter is formed. Pressure on a foot- lever now embosses the letter on the brass sheets. The paper to be printed is damped and placed between the two sheets of brass. These are protected by indiarubl)er and pressed together in a litho-press, and a Vieautifully clear impression is thus obtained. Arithmetic is taught by means of a very ingenious frame, in which are rows of octagonal holes. A peg can be stuck into each hole in eight possible positions, thus representing the first eight numerals ; 9 and 0 are represented by sticking the peg upside down in positions 1 and 2. Various forms of kindci-garten work are made use of, and bead- work is specially recommended, as the handling of small beads trains the fingertips for afterwards feeling the dots of the Braille letters. Raised maps, models, natural history, and other specimens are all of value. When a blind child cannot at- tend a special sch(jol for the lilind, it is pro- l)al)ly Ijest for it to attend an ordinary school, where it will profit by the oral instruction, discipline, and intercourse with the seeing. If possible, some one at home should learn the Braille system, which is easily done, in order that the child may be taught to read and write. Many School Boards make special arrangements for teaching blind pupils. Books for the Blind.—It may be of interest, in conclusion, to mention, as examples, the prices of one or two books for the blind, of which a large number have now been printed. All the books of the Bible are published l)y the British and Foreign Bible Society. These vary in price from two shillings for the Gospel according to St. Mark to five shillings for the Psalms. Nelson's Royal Geographical Headers Are pulilished in five volumes at about four shillings per volume. A monthly magazine, Mora Jiicunda, is published in Edinburgh at one shilling per number. It contains sixty large pages of amusing and interesting matter, and has proved very popular. The first Braille musical monthly was started in Edinburgh in 1895, and also proved a great success. It is now published qiuirterly, contains twenty pages of selections from the best composers not already published in Braille, and is sold for one shilling per number. Occupations for the Blind.—The important subject of occupations can only be dealt with very briefly. A very large number of trades have been successfully carried on by lilind people, of which the chief are the making of baskets, brushes, bedding, cushions, mats, ship-