107 ALKALOIDS Regarding the ^^ubject from tlic most ticneral point of view, it may be said that tlie thera- peutic employment of alkaloids spells " playing with poisons," and therefore is a matter which properly demands a thorough knowledge of the very many actions exerted by them on a greater or less ninuber of the bodily organs, tissues, and processes, if their administration is to l)e correctly determined. As a rule, individual alkaloids influence one or other well-defined group of cells or tissue forms in a very prominent degree, the parts remaining often being but slightly affected. One alkaloid may, for instance, affect the cells of the anterior grey matter in the cord, while the cells of the posteri(jr eornua escape un- touched. Table ok ■i'he Chief Aci'ions of Alkaloids 1. Oil the nervous system. A. Motor mechanism. Stimulated by Nerve-eiKiings iMorpliiiia (B),l nicotina (B), pilooarpina Spinal corrl Brain Strychnina, morphiiia (B),bruciiia, thebaina Atropina, eseriiia, co- caina B. Sensory mechaitisiri. Nerve-endings Nicotina (B), veratrina (B) Brain Atropina,liyoscyamina, catt'eina, cocaina, morphina (B) C. Secretory mechanism. Nicotina, pilocarpina, eserina, morphina (sweat) D. On vagus centre. Depressed by Conina, atropina, spar- teina, cocaina, methyl-alkaloids. Eserina, morphina(L), a])omorphina, vera- trina, emetina, co- caina (large doses). Cardiac Respiratory Aconitina, veratrina, nicotina, delphiiiina, atropina (B), liyoscy- amina (B) Strychnina, ai)Omor- ])hina E. On accelerating cardiac centre. Cafl'eina, delphinina. F. (.)n vomiting centre. Apomorphina, emetina G. On vaso-motor nerves. Atropina (B), strych- nina, veralrina(B) H. On splanchnic nerves. Atrojiina (moderate doses) Aconitina, veratrina, (Ij), atropina, mor- phina, cocaina. Jlorphina (L), hyo- scina, cannabinina, lupulina. Atropina, morphina, niuscarina, strych- nina, (piinina. The same in large doses. Eserina, codeina con- ina, catt'eina,quinina, emetina. Morjthina. Atio|jiiia(L), lobelina, nicotina, veratrina (L), emetina, aconi- tina. Atropina(small doses). 2. On muscles. Increase power of work, catt'eina ; diminish this power, emetina, cocaina, quinina, apomorphina. 3. On the blood. Attecting the white corpuscles, veratrina and quinina ; the red corpuscles, quinina and allied alkaloids. 4. On the eye. Atropina and its allies, conina, gelsemina, mns- carina. aconitina, paralyse endings of third nerve; cocaina .stinmlates the endings of the .sympathetic ; these dilate the pnpil. Pilocarpina and nicotina stimulate the third nerve end- ings, and eserina .stimulates the muscle, contracting the pupil. 5. On the organs of generation. Strychnina, cannabinina an' aphrodisiacs ; most of the opium alkaloids, atropina and its allies, and cocaina-are anajihrodisiacs. Motor nerve endings are stimulated by pilo- carpina, briefly by morphina, and slightly by 1 (B) = Brietly ; (L) = L.atcr. strychnina : tiic motor spinal centres by strych- nina, brucina, and tliebaina ; and the cerebral motor cells l)y atrojjina and physostigmina.. The motor nerve endings are depressed by curarina, conina, atropiiui, niecjtina, hyoscya- mina, sparteina, cocaina, and a number of methyl compounds of the alkaloids of the pre- ceding group; the spinal motor centres l>y physostigmina, morphina (later), apomorphina, veratrina, emetina, lobelina {rf. talile). Sensory ner\ e terminations are stimulated by veratrina at first, the sensory and mental centres in the brain by atropina, hyoscyamina, cocaina, cafteina, and morphina (briefly) ; the sensory nerve endings depressed by aconitina, veratrina (later), atropina, morphina, and cocaina; the cerebral centres by morphina (later), hyoscina, cannabinina, lupulina. Tiie alkaloids which act ujxm the vaso-motor and secretory systems influence the nerve-Hbres themselves or their terminations, the local ganglia, the various secretory centres in the cord, and the vaso-constrictor, or the vaso- dilator, medullary centres. Thus pilocarpina, muscarina, and nicotina are sialagogues by local action, atropina and hyoscyamina anti - sialagogues ; sparteina con- tracts the renal afferent vessels locally, caftc'ina, acts either on the renal cells or on the nerves ending in them. To illustrate the actions of alkaloids upon the vaso - motor centres, the dilatation of blood-vessels by atropina, conina, lol)elina, their contraction by coruutina and strychnina may be adduced; while nicotina acts as a diaphoretic by influencing the sweat centres. Quinina and veratrina lessen the motility of leucocytes; quinina acts also upon the red blood corpuscles, rendering oxyhpemoglobin more stable, and thus diminishes metabolism. The pharmacological actions of many of the alkaloid.s, it is worthy of note, are mutually antagonistic ; this may l)e true of actions affect- ing the whole organism, of one organ, tissue, or one group of cells. Tlie La>r of Disso/ufion. — The progressive effects of many of the vegetable alkaloids after continued administration for some period of time, or if the dose given be increased, upon the various })ortions of the nervous system, appear in many cases to follow what has been termed a "law of dissolution ' ; i.e. nervous faculties and powers acquired by man more recently are influenced before those faculties less specialised, and therefore of earlier acquire- ment. Some drugs act only upon tlie more recently acquired faculties at ffrst, or affect them more profoundly, then in succession pro- ceed to act more and more upon the less and less specialised faculties and functions until the nervous mechanisms common and essential to all animal bodies are reached. Thus morphina ffrst influences the mental central areas—