495 BRAIN, TUMOURS OF only difficulty likely to arise with regard to acute meningitis is that of deciding whether a tumour co-exists in the tuberculous variety. A history of headache and vomiting for some time before the more acute symptoms became mani- fest is in favour of tumour, as is severe optic neuritis with much swelling of the disc, especially if the condition is detected soon after the apparent commencement of the meningitis. Chronic cerebritis may give rise to symptoms identical with those that result from tumour, as may internal hydrocephalus; but the former class of case is rare, and the latter only ex- ceptionally causes difficulty in diagnosis. When symptoms occur suddenly with cerebral tumours, especially hemiplegia, the question is raised as to whether a vascular lesion is alone responsible for the occui-rence; but care- ful inquiry will usually elicit a history of pre- existing symptoms of slow development, and the detection of optic neuritis would further tend to make the nature of the case clear. Cases of tumour, in which giddiness, vomiting, and deafness are prominent early symptoms, may for a time, at any rate, be mistaken for Meniere's disease, but diagnosis does not usually long remain in doubt. As has been said, the mental state in some cases of cerebral tumour resembles that of general jiaralysis of the insane, and the character of the speech may make the resemblance still greater; but headache, vomit- ing, and optic neui'itis, if present, indicate tumour. When jerky inco-ordination is a symptom, the case may be erroneously regarded as one of disseminated sclerosis, but in the latter disease the tremor usually affects both sides as opposed to one in tumour, nystagmus is common, and optic neuritis exceptional, and when present usually slight; atrophic pallor of the discs, on the other hand, is common. Moreover, head- ache and vomiting are very much less com- monly met with than in tumour. Those cases of tumour where general convulsions are the only symptoms for years, naturally cannot be dia- gnosed irom idiopathic ejnlepsi/iiutW optic neuritis or some other sign of the gross lesion is forth- coming ; hut the opposite mistake of supposing that fits having a local beginning of necessity mean a gross lesion, must be guarded against. Hysterical 7nanifestations may so mask the organic affection as to lead to errors in diagnosis, but this will usually be avoided by a determina- tion never to diagnose hysteria as the sole con- dition present, until every possible source of organic affection has been negatived. In the search for some sign of organic disease, optic neuritis or some other defect of like significance will generally be found. It is less likely that phenomena that are purely hysterical will be mistaken for the effects of an intracranial tmnour, for due regard to the special features which characterise hysterical manifestations in general as opposed to those of organic origin | should, as a rule, prevent this. Moreover, there are important distinctions even where the phenomena appear similar, in which connection the grouping of the symptoms may be of especial value. A knowledge of regional diagnosis of cerebral ^ disease in general, together with what has been said in this connection when the symptomatology of intracranial tumours was under consideration, must suffice as regards the information on which we depend for the localisation of a tumour. Many factors serve to make the problem a very difficult one. Apart from one of the " silent regions" of the brain being affected, the marvellous possibilities of com- pensation of which the nervous system is capable, result in a singular absence of localising symptoms in many cases. One of the greatest bugbears to localisation, however, is the general increase of intracranial pressure, which so dis- torts the clinical picture as to make accurate localisation an impossibility in a large proportion of cases. The instances in which the effects of vascular occlusion occur at some part remote from the seat of tumour are met with too, infrequently to make this possibility a serious, stumbling-block in localisation. Cortical and Sub - cortical Tumours.— Tumours near the surface of the brain afford the best chances of successful surgical inter- vention, so that it is important to recognise the special features which justify the localisation of a neoplasm in or just beneath the cortex. It is when a tumour is in, or contiguous to, the sensorimotor cortex of the Rolandic region of the brain that the most definite indications are supplied. Paralytic phenomena ai-e of much greater value in localisation than are those the result of over-action, for when there is paralysis the disease must involve the nerve centres con- cerned with the affected part, while convulsion may depend on irritation of some contiguous part. The special feature of paralysis of cortical origin is that it is limited in range, for, owing to the wide expanse of area on the surface of the brain, partial paralysis, such as a mono- plegia, is much more commonly met with here than where the motor fibres become collected within narrower limits in deeper parts of the brain. The lips and tongue are affected when the lowest part of the motor region is involved, the face when the part just above this is im- plicated ; the arm suffers most when the middle region of the Rolandic area is the seat of disease, while the leg is involved when tlie morbid pro- cess abuts on the longitudinal fissure. If the paralysis is entirely limited to the leg, then the probabilities are that the paracentral lobule is the seat of disease. The local commencement of a convulsion is the characteristic feature of tumour of the cerebral cortex, for such a mode of commencement is exceptional if the disease is ' For "Cerebellar Tumour" see "Cerebellum."