BRAIN, SURGERY OF 510 abscess formation, are occasional results of severe injury. Concussion of the Brain This term signifies a state of more or less complete arrest of the functions of the brain following injury to the head, and characterised by many of the symptoms usually associated with the condition of shock or collapse. It is usually caused by a severe blow or fall on the head, but may follow a fall on the but- tocks or even on the feet. The 'pathology of this condition, which is somewhat obscure, may in part at least be gathered from the chief post-mortem appear- ances, which are as follows :— (a) Minute punctiform haemorrhages scattered throughout the brain, and in some cases moi'e distinct extravasations of blood, or areas of actual disorganisation of brain tissue. (6) Anaemia of the brain. It has been sug- gested by Duret that this is due to the force applied to the skull causing a temporary de- pression on the surface of the bone, by which means the subjacent brain is compressed, and the cerebro-spinal fluid is forced out of the lateral ventricles and lymph spaces towards the base of the skull, and particularly into the fourth ventricle, the distension of which, by stimulating the restiform bodies, produces an- aemia of the brain. (c) Engorgement of the right side of the heart, lungs, and other internal organs. This seems to be due to vasomotor disturbances in the medullary centres, and consequent gravita- tion of blood to the portal system. Symptoms.—These vary with the severity of the injury. In mild cases all that is noticed is a temporary or momentary unconsciousness or giddiness, with a little confusion of mind, and occasionally a certain degree of pallor. These symptoms may be succeeded by headache more or less persistent and severe. In well-marked and more severe cases there is, immediately following the blow, sudden un- consciousness, more or less complete, and last- ing, it may be, several minutes, hours, or even days. During this time the patient may usually be roused by shouting in his ear, or by other strong stimuli, but in some cases the unconsciousness is complete. He usually lies flat on his back; his muscles are relaxed; the pulse is weak and fluttering; the respiration is irregular, shallow, and slow, occasionally marked by deep-drawn sighs ; the temperature is subnormal. The eyes are shut, and the conjunctival reflex is usually absent; the pupils are usually (but not always) contracted, and, except in very severe cases, they react to light. Other reflexes are usually present, unless the concussion is very severe, but they are usually slow, and somewhat difficult to elicit. The sphincters are often relaxed, and uncon- scious passage of urine and fseces may take place. The foregoing symptoms constitute what is called the first stage of concussion, sometimes called the stage of collapse. It may last for a very variable time, and may then pass, on the one hand, into more profound unconscious ness, in which the patient gradually sinks and dies; or the pendulum may swing back from collapse towards the other extreme, namely, irritation or iiiflammation of the brain, followed it may be by symptoms of compression. This state of things may be looked upon as an exaggeration of what takes place in all favourable cases during their second stage, or stage of reaction. This stage is characterised, first and foremost, by sudden vomiting; in rarer cases by an epi- leptiform seizure. The patient, who usually feels chilly when he first begins to regain conscious- ness, soon becomes warmer and of a better colour, his pulse and respiration improve, and conscious ness returns. The temperature is now apt to swing beyond the normal to about 100°, and the pulse to be- come full and bounding; headache is likely to supervene, and may last for some days. This state of matters, lasting for a variable time, tends in favourable cases to gradually subside to the normal condition, but on the other hand may go on to encephalitis, meningitis, or to more or less permanent interference with some brain function, such as loss of memory, in- capacity for work, or to neurasthenia. Contusion or laceration of the brain may be the result of a localised injury caused by the direct blow of a hammer, bullet, or some such instrument, smashing through the skull and impinging directly on the brain; or may be due to violence applied to the outside of the cranium, causing the brain to impinge against the inner surface of that side of the skull opposite to the site of injury. When this happens the brain is said to sufler by " contre-coup," and the injury affects a considerable area of brain. When the injury is strictly localised, its effects may be also purely local, such as interference with some motor or sensory centre of the brain. But in the large majority of cases an injury which is severe enough to contuse or lacerate the brain will also suffice to produce the con- dition of concussion, while the laceration of vessels frequently gives rise to haemorrhage fol- lowed by symptoms of compression. One usually therefore finds, at any rate for the first few days, the symptoms of laceration or contusion accom- panied by those of concussion and even of com- pression. When, however, the patient lives long enough, and the symptoms of compression do not mask entirely those of laceration, it usually happens from the second to the fifth or sixth day that