28 ABORTION 1. Is she Pregnant ?—The differential diagnosis of pregnancy is discussed under "Pregnancy." Tlie following points should be specially noted on vaginal examination. At the third month, the cervix of the gravid uterus is beginning to soften, whilst the body of the uterus is distinctly enlarged and expanded above the neck, the anterior and posterior walls being separated from each other. The walls are notably softened, as can be felt most clearly through the posterior fornix, or better still, by the middle finger passed farther up the back wall of the uterus through the rectum. If the examination be made with some care, a change will be found to take place at times in the uterine walls, which harden as a wave of contraction passes through their muscular fibres. 2. Is the Abortion inevitable ?—In trying to answer this question, three points fall to be noted. (1) The character of the pains. If these are weak, recurring at long intervals and con- trollable, the mischief may be averted ; where, on the contrary, they are strong, frequently re- curring and beginning to tell on the cervix, the abortion may be regarded as inevitable. (2) Dilatation of the cervix. This can be felt by the fingers which embrace it in the vaginal roof, and though cases have been noted where the external os has been so expanded that the lower end of the ovum could be felt through it, and yet the pregnancy has gone on to the full time, such a possibility cannot be counted on ; and when dilatation is present the abortion should be considered inevitable. (3) The amount of luBmorrhage has also to be taken into considera- tion. There are cases where there has been no appreciable pains, where the cervical canal and its orifices are still contracted, but where the blood-loss calls for active interference. If the amount lost on any one day be not great, yet if it recur time after time, it may be safest for the sake of the mother to further the abortive pro- cess instead of allowing her to go on getting her health undermined, to find some months later that she gives birth to a premature or poorly developed child that dies almost as soon as it is born. Prognosis However lightly some women may think of a " mishap" as they will call it, the experienced practitioner knows that it is attended with dangers both immediate and remote. Although rarely fatal, deaths have occurred from the severity of the hfemorrhage and from a septicaemia set up by septic abortion. But short of the supreme risk, there is the danger that the hfemorrhage maj^ so reduce the patient's strength that years will pass ere it be regained, and she is rendered liable to crural phlegmasias and pelvic inflam- mations. There is danger also that the in- volution of the uterus remain imperfect, so that it is permanently hypertrophied and perhaps displaced. Hence the gynecologist traces back many cases of chronic pelvic distress to the effects of a neglected abortion. Treatment The treatment of cases of abortion varies according as the aboi'tion is—1, Threatened ; 2, Progressive; 3, Delaj^ed; 4, Incomplete; 5, Recurrent. 1. Threatened or Evitable Abortion.— These are usually cases where there is some degree of haemorrhage, with uterine contractions in abeyance, and the cervix undilated. To arrest further mischief, the patient should be kept at complete rest until all haemorrhage and pain have ceased. The diet should be light and the bowels carefully regulated, and sedatives administered to relieve pain and allay muscular contraction, e.g. Tinct. opii 1- to 1 drachm, or an equivalent of morphia by the mouth or hypodermically. A general anaesthetic is sometimes of value until the sedative begins to act. Viburnum prunifolium (ext. liq. ^ to 2 drachms t.d.s.) is frequently serviceable in cases where the discharge continues in small amount, probably due to its sedative action on in- voluntary muscle. Bromides also may be tried. There are a few cases with marked flaccidity of uterine walls when small doses of ergot (ext. liq. Ill^x.), continued for two or three days, check the haemorrhage. Other styptics, e.g. sulphuric acid, etc., may be tried, but are usually worthless. Vaginal plugging may be resorted to for the arrest of the haemorrhage, but it is of greater service in cases of inevitable abortion. 2. Actual or Inevitable Abortion.—Where the pains are persistent, where the cervix is expanding, or where without notable uterine effort there is free or frequent haemorrhage, we judge the abortion to be inevitable. An active line of treatment must now be adopted. Three indications have to be fulfilled :—1st, to procure uterine activity ; 2nd, to restrain haemorrhage ; 3rd, to secure complete evacuation of the uterus. It hardly needs to be insisted on here that in all the measures we adopt we must seek to ensure an aseptic delivery with as much care as in the management of a full-time labour. With this view the treatment may be begun with the douching of the vaginal cavity for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes with an antiseptic lotion of bichloride or biniodide of mercury (1 in 2000-4000) or of carbolic acid (1 in 60-80), or of Condy's fluid, boracic acid, or even vinegar. \st. Promotion of Uterine activity.—Douching has a notable influence in stimulating and strengthening the action of the uterine muscle, especially when the stream of water is of a temperature of from 110° to 120° F. This may be further increased by the administration of ergot in full doses. One or two drachms of the