260 ARTERIES, DISEASES OF Acute aortitis and acute arteritis (syphilitic). Arteriosclerosis. Calcification of middle coat. Fatty degeneration of intima. Atheroma and Endarteritis Deformans.— The changes which characterise this condition are met with in arteries which vary as much in size as the arch of the aorta and the central arteries of the brain. When the condition is present in an extreme degree in the large arteries, it leads to great alteration in the normal appearances, and to so much deformity that the name endarteritis deformans has long been applied to it. The use of this term must not be regarded as implying that the morbid changes difter in kind from [those known as atheroma in smaller vessels, for they are as a matter of fact identical. The lesions which characterise both are the presence of localised areas of thickening of the tunica intima, with fatty or atheromatous degeneration of the thickened coat. The thickening of the intima consists of a hyperplasia of the subendothelial connective tissue. The atheromatous degenera- tion occurs first in the deeper part of this thickened intima, that is, in the part next the internal elastic lamina; but it may be scattered all through it, and it may be quite superficial and close to the lumen of the vessel. The atheromatous patches contain fatty and granular debris and fatty crystals. The patches tend to become infiltrated with calcareous salts. The atheromatous material may soften and form an atheromatous cyst, and the intima covering this may give way and allow the atheromatous material to escape into the circulation, an atheromatous ulcer remaining at the part. The condition may affect the arch of the aorta and its branches extensively; but no matter how extensive it be, it is always patchy. While atheroma is primarily an affection of the tunica intima, it leads to important changes in the tunica media. This coat becomes atrophied and attenuated, while the internal elastic lamina gets broken, and may entirely disappear at the seat of the atheroma. The atrophy implies weakening of the vessel wall, with the result that it yields before the pressure of the con- tained blood. This yielding leads to areas of dilatation, which may be so pronounced as to be sacculated {see "Aneurysm"); while if the atheroma be extensive the entire arch of the aorta, or a considerable tract of a large vessel, may be dilated. Such an area is an aneurysmal dilatation. Corresponding changes occur in arteries of all sizes, but in the small arteries the atheroma is either confined to or is most marked on one side of the vessel. This gives the affected portion of the vessel, when seen in transverse section, the classical " signet-ring " shape. As looked at from the outside the vessels, where affected, are opaque and greyish- white in colour, more or less thickened, and, if infiltrated with lime salts, rigid. Etiology.—Atheroma is said to begin as an inflammation, as a fatty degeneration, or as a mucoid degeneration. The essential character- istics are the thickening and fatty degeneration of the intima. The fatty or atheromatous change has of late been attributed to failure in the supply of nutriment to the thickened intima, the failure being attributed to the implication of the vasa vasorum. To this view, however, weighty objections can be found. Effects of Atheroma.—As has been already mentioned, aneurysm is one of the results of atheroma in the large arteries. Aneurysm is not, however, confined to these, but also occurs in smaller arteries, especially those of the brain. In this region aneurysms may act as tumours, while by rupture they become a source of cerebral hajmorrhage. Atheroma has other important effects, more especially in the brain and heart. In these organs the nutrition of brain and of heart tissue respectively is im- paired. This is due to the loss of elasticity in the arterial walls impairing the blood-flow in the part, and to a diminution of the lumen at the affected points. The nutrition of these organs may be still further and seriously injured by the occurrence of thrombosis. In atheroma of the aorta the mouths of the coronary arteries may be almost occluded by the thickening of the surrounding intima. The relation between heart-power and atheroma of the cerebral vessels is of great clinical importance ; on the one hand, strong cardiac action can be, and often is, the immediate cause of cerebral hfemorrhage ; while, on the other hand, enfeeblement of cardiac action may so impair the nutrition of parts of the brain as to produce motor and mental phenomena which are frequently mistaken for permanent injury. The impairment of nutrition is caused by the increased friction and consequent impedi- ment to the blood-flow though the atheromatous vessels. Another and still more serious danger is the occurrence of thrombosis. This per- manently cuts off the blood-supply to portions of brain, and leads to softening, and to motor or other manifestations dependent upon the part of the brain involved. The clinician has thus to guide his patient between the two dangers of too strong or of too feeble cardiac action, and from the risk which follows each—hajmorrhage in the one case, thrombosis and softening in the other. Endarteritis Obliterans—Syphilitic and Non-Syphilitic.—In endarteritis obliterans the essential characteristic is a progressive thicken- ing of the tunica intima without atheromatous degeneration. The thickening is formed by a hyperplasia of the subendothelial connective tissue; in some cases the endothelium itself shares in the hyperplasia, and is therefore in part responsible for the thickening. The