ARTERIES, INJURIES OF 266 transverse direction. It consists of three layers :— (1) A single endothelial layer, the cells of which have their long diameter in the direction of the vessel. (2) The sub-endothelial, a delicate layer of branched corpuscles lying in an almost homo- geneous matrix. This layer is most developed in the larger arteries, and is of great importance as being the seat of atheroma. (3) An elastic membrane, arranged chiefly as a longitudinal network with numerous perfora- tions, the fenestrated membrane of Henle. When an artery is ligated the ligature ruptures both the middle and internal coats. The outer coat, however, remains intact. Vessels and Nerves of Arteries.—The arterial coats receive small vessels, the vasa vasorum. These are distributed to the outer coat, but do not enter the middle or internal coats. Nerves are distributed to the coats of the vessels, but in health an artery is devoid of sensibility. Thk Injuries of Arteries may be considered under the headings—1. Contusions. 2. Lacera- tions and Ruptures. 3. Punctured Wounds. 4. Incised Wounds. 5. Gunshot Wounds. 1. Cmitusions of Arteries.—A slight con- tusion of an artery may not give rise to any after- effects, or it may be attended by inflammatory changes in the vessel wall which lead to thicken- ing of the coats of the artery and occlusion of its lumen. Should the contusion be sufficiently forcible to seriously injure the arterial wall the vessel may at the site of the injury become plugged by an adherent thrombus, which may also eventually lead to obliteration of the artery. 2. (a) Lacerated wounds of arteries are apt to be attended with dangerous results, particu- larly secondary haemorrhage should the wound become septic. There is as a rule but little primary haemorrhage, for in these cases in which an artery is stretched beyond the limit of its elasticity and tears, the middle and internal coats snap across and curl up within the vessel, the middle coat contracting closes the orifice, and the overstretched external coat covers it. The danger in these cases is lest the injury sustained by the vessel walls just above the level of tearing across be sufficient to cause them to give way. (b) Rupture of an artery may be partial, as, for example, when only the internal and middle coats of the vessel are severed, whilst the ex- ternal coat, though severely put on the stretch, remains intact. On the receipt of such an injury there is no primary haemorrhage, but secondary haemorrhage, the result of sloughing, or gangrene due to thrombosis of the vessel, are not uncommon results. If all three coats of an artery are completely torn across, the injury is that of a lacerated wound of the artery. From subcutaneous rupture of an artery a traumatic aneurysm may develop. 3. Punctured ivounds of arteries are danger- ous injuries, even though the wound be small in size. Any sharp - pointed instrument or splinter of glass, metal, etc., may cause a punc- tured wound of an artery. Hfemorrhage in such cases may not appear at once, or may be only trivial. Should, as not infrequently hap- pens, the instrument which inflicted the injury ' introduce sepsis into the wound, septic arteritis, 1 with ulceration and secondary haemorrhage, will ] result. In punctured wounds of arteries the internal coagulum does not form, owing partly ;! to the fact that retraction and contraction j cannot occur as in an artery which is completely j severed. The blood escaping from the hole in t the artery becomes diffused through the tissues, i; as, owing to the small wound in the skin, it ; cannot as a rule escape externally. 4. Incised ivounds of arteries are caused by ! sharp cutting instruments. Longitudinal ; wounds bleed but slightly. Transverse or | oblique wounds bleed profusely when the artery i is only incompletely divided, owing to the fact ' that contraction of the circular fibres of the j middle coat causes the wound to gape wider than it would otherwise do. In such cases the artery should be cut completely across. 5. Gunshot Wounds.—A bullet may cause a i contusion of an artery, may open into the j lumen of the vessel, or may completely sever it. Contused gunshot wounds of arteries may give rise to no primary haemorrhage, but secondary haemorrhage, especially in septic wounds, may be caused by sloughing of the arterial walls. j Perforation of an artery by a bullet generally causes profuse hjemorrhage. When the velocity of the bullet is sufficient to completely sever an artery, the division may resemble an incised j wound and the haemorrhage be formidable. j Not infrequently simultaneous injury to an \ artery and its companion vein is caused by a , gunshot wound. Gangrene or aneurysmal varix not infrequently follows such an injury. j Foreign substances, e.g. pieces of clothing, are \ apt to be carried into the wound by the bixllet j and to set up infective inflammation therein. ] The Treatment of injuries to arteries varies with the causes and symptoms of the lesion. In general any wound of an artery calls for ligature of the vessel above and below the point j of injury, and complete division of the artery between the two ligatures. In contusions complete rest and the mainte- ! nance of the warmth of the parts nourished by the artery are of prime importance in aiding in the establishment of the collateral circulation, in cases in which thrombosis and obliteration of the vessel at the site of injury are apt to occui'. The surgeon must ever be on his guard against j the serious accident of secondary haemorrhage. | In lacerated wounds and ruptures of arteries, even though the primary haemorrhage is trivial \