ALCOHOLISM 100 opinion, are cardiac. Hurried lieart and other disturbances of rhythm are very common, and disturbances of cardiac force. The thumjaing action of the heart may be very distressing, and cardiac failure, sometimes amounting to syncope, is even more common. These may or may not be associated with palpitation and with angina. Very common also are vaso-motor disturbances —-especially such localised congestions as occur in the skin, and which probably also occur in the viscera, and perhaps in the brain or meninges. Asthmatic conditions and hiccough are common. With regard to other viscera, the general rule applies that nervous disturbances in alcoholism are in proportion to the higher relations of vis- ceral mechanisms. In this connection it is suggestive to note the frequency of variations in the lachrymal and in the reproductive functions. In all probability the Vagus nerve and the Solar Plexus are the vehicles of disturbance in many of the functional disorders of the thoracic and abdominal viscera. Affections of the sympa- thetic nervous system are of peculiar interest in alcoholism, and have not been deeply studied. Much less problematical are the peripheral and muscular impairments which are commonly understood to signify an interference with the trophic function of nerves. Such a lesion has usually a definite relation to vascular conditions, as when pigmentation occurs. The tone of voluntary muscles is admittedly impaired in alcoholism. On a par with that is the flabby heart of many alcoholics and the atonic bowel. But, again, as in considering the liability to fatty and cirrhotic degenerations, it is impossible to appreciate the relative importance of an im- paired trophic function and of alcoholised blood. It seems not unreasonable to suppose that some visceral idiosyncrasies in alcoholism—cases in which non-nervous symptoms are conspicuous— are predisposed to by a neurosis of visceral mechanisms, though the subsequent disorder is not a neurosis. These are here regarded as complications. It is impossible to conceive of neuro-muscular relations without the implication that muscles depend upon energy of central origin for their dynamical capacity, and when, as in alcoholism, the central system is depressed, the muscle fibres are correspondingly depressed. A similar depression may occur in visceral, cutaneous, and other structures. But, as has been said, it is easy to exaggerate the importance of such an effect, and to depreciate the effect of alcoholised blood. Whatever the explanation, the important fact remains that healing processes are impaired in alcoholism, and all the tissues devitalised. Complications of Alcoholism. — What has just been said prepares for the remark that the alcoholic is abnormally prone to nearly all diseases,—that almost any other disease may complicate alcoholism. The most ordinary com- plications are digestive; the more grave are cardio-vascular, pulmonary, and nervous. Of i these grave aifections the more important are \ in the cardio - vascular system — fatty heart, ' cerebral haemorrliage, and thrombosis; iu the < respiratory system — pneumonia, phthisis, and ; bronchitis; and in the nervous — neuritis, hysteria, myelitis, and meningitis. The morbid ' changes which characterise these and other con- | ditions are considered elsewhere, as they are i really diseases in their own right, so to speak, j and not merely accessory to the dissolution of j the nervous system. Cirrhosis of the liver, for | example, which is perhaps the most distinctive i alcoholic affection of non-nervous tissue, is a I degeneration which may have almost no direct | relation with the lesion of alcoholism proper. j Pathology.—It must be admitted that up to , the present time we are not in possession of a ; histology of alcoholism which squares with the , clinical facts, although we are probably on the ,; verge of such a pathology. We must, accord- ; ingly, keep clearly in mind the phenomena of ^ which a pathological explanation is required, rather than commit ourselves to a conception of the morbid changes based upon results which every one admits to be far from complete. j At the outset we have to bear in mind that j the primary fact about alcoholism is the impaired j excitability of nerve mechanisms which character- ; ises it. That is not in contrast with the increased i instability of lower and surviving mechanisms. ; We must have regard to abolition of function i both in intoxication and in chronic alcoholism. \ Moreover, the morbid stability of the cortical I mechanisms is often of a systematic nature— ; that is, it partakes of a consecutive paralysis, | which implies a distribution of the lesion in ■ functional, and not merely in adjacent, areas, j But, though the impairment often follows a i course which suggests that the lesion is pro- \ gressing along lines of function, there are ■ undoubtedly symptoms which indicate also a | contagious spread of diseased processes. | Essentially the lesion of alcoholism is, in my . opinion, an affection of the nerve elements in the j cortex, but that must only be accepted as an j individual opinion. With such a premise we j must immediately observe that vascular changes, j especially in the higher centres, are most inti- ; mately related to the changes in the nerve-cell ; and its processes, and that the two go hand in ; glove to occasion alcoholic dissolution. It has ' previously been stated that gross vascular lesions j are to be regarded as complications, rather than ! essentials, of alcoholism. That statement may j now be modified so as to make it apply to ! apoplexy, embolism, local congestion, etc., which , is part of a general arteritis and associated ; possibly with Bright's disease. But midoubtedly i a great number of alcoholics escape disease of , the larger vessels. On the other hand, disease of the small cortical arterioles must be regarded j as essential, because of the very intimate relation \