ABDOMINAL TUMOURS, DIAGNOSIS OF 25 The Ovaries.—An ovarian cyst also occupies, as a rule, tlie middle line, though there may be a history of its commencement on one or other side. It produces a swelling of the abdomen which is most marked below the umbilicus. There is dulness in fi'ont and resonance in the flanks, the reverse being the case in ascites. The uterus is found to be of normal size. Sometimes a cystic tumour of the broad liga- ment simulates an ovarian tumour. The Fallopian tubes may also be the seat of tumours, such as malignant and tubercular growths, which can be felt through the abdomen; or they may become enormously distended by accumulations of clear fluid, pus, or blood. The possibility of an advanced extra-uterine pregnancy must also be borne in mind. Abdominal Typhus. See Typhoid Fever. Abducens Nerve. See Ocular Muscles, Affections of; PnYsiOLOcv. Abductor Paralysis and Spasm. See Larynx, Neuroses of. Aberystwit h. <SVeTherapeutics {Health Besorts). AbietiC Acid.—The chief constituent of resin (Resina), which is the residue left after the distillation of oil of turpentine from various species of Pinus. AbiOgfenesiS.—The doctrine that living matter may be produced b}' non-living matter; .spontaneous generation. Ablactation.—Weaning. See Infant Feeding ; and Puerperium, Pathology of. Ablepharon. — Congenital absence of the eyelids, real or apparent; the latter is better named Cri/ptophthalmus (Ballantyne). Abnormities. See Deformities, Tera- tology, and under various organs {e.g. Bladder, Cheek, Generative Organs, etc.). Abortifacient.—Producing or induciuii abortion. See Medicine, Forensic ; and Toxi- cology. Abortion. Definition and Frequency . . .25 Varieties of Product . . . .25 Moles Causes ....... 26 Ovular or Foetal Placental Maternal Criminal Symptoms and Diagnosis . . . .27 o f Pregnancy of Inevitable Abortion Prognosis ...... 28 Treatment . . . . . .28 of Evitable Abortion of Actual ,, of Deferred ,, of Incomplete ,, of Recurrent ,, Therapeutic Abortion . . . .30 Medico-Legal Aspects . . . .30 See also Chorea Gravidarum ; Curettage, Uterine ; Ectopic Gestation ; Labour, Opera- tions; MEDiciNE,FoRENSic(^/>or<?:o'n); Nephritis ; Pregnancy, Management of ; Pregnancy, Ovum AND Decidua, Affections of Generative Organs, H/EMORRHAGE ; Syphilis ; Trades, Dangerous ; and Uterus, Malignant Tumours of. Definition.—Abortion or Miscarriage (French Avortement, German Fehlgehurt) indicates inter- ruption of utero-gestation before the fostus is viable, as distinguished from the interruptions that occur during tlic last trimester of pregnancy when the infant expelled is viable. Sometimes the term "abortion" is restricted to the inter- ruptions that occur before the date of quicken- ing, and the designation " miscarriage" is applied to those that occur between the fourth and the seven months of gestation. All cases, however, where the ovum is addled or expelled before the sixth month are to be regarded as abortions. The abortion may occur at any date, but is more frequent at the third month. Statistics (Whitehead) would seem to indicate that four-fifths of all abortions occur between the second and fourth montlis. The occurrence most frequently coincides with a menstrual epoch. Frequency.—It is not easy to determine the frequency with which abortion takes place. The difficulty of determining the relative fre- quency of aborted to completed pregnancies is greatly due to the inattention of patients to their menstrual functions. A period passes without any loss of blood, and when it escapes six, eight, or ten weeks later in larger quantity than usual and mixed with what they take to be clots, they imagine that it is only an over- flow due to the delay, whereas in reality they had aborted. The following statistics may be given :— Abortion. Full-time labours. Hegar 1 in 8 or 10 Dcvilliers 1 in 3 or 4 Whitehead 1 in 7 (the average age being below thirt}'). Varieties of Product.—Jacquemier, without giving the reference, says Guillemot has pro- posed to group abortions according as the uterus casts its contents—(1) in the first three weeks, when the embryo is still a relatively small part of the ovum, and the abortion is to be designated Ovui.^\r : (2) between tliat date and the third month, when the different parts