BLADDER, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF .399 several times anil are often of some lenj;'tli, are composed of a delicate stroma of connective tissue, covered witli a basement-membrane and several layers of epithelial cells, and running in the stroma are numerous fine capillary vessels. The sessile growths (filjro-papilloma) are usually of firmer consistence than the pedunculated, especially towards their bases, containing a denser filtrous stroma, mixed with which there is often a quantity of unstriped muscular fibre. They present considerable variation in size, e.g. from a pea to a small orange, or even larger, and when pedunculated the pedicle may measure an inch or more in length. Though papillomata are essentially innocent tumours, often remain- ing so for many years, yet after a time, just as happens with similar growths in other parts of the body, they may change tlieir nature, especi- ally towards their l>ase, and take on malignant action. Undergoing either cancerous or sarco- matous degeneration, they then infiltrate the l)ladder-wall deeply, and growing rapidly, soon attain a large size, often completely filling the interior of the viscus. Papillomata are rarelj' met with before puberty, but are not inicommon at any age between 30 and 70 years. Symptoms. — In the early stage, attacks of painless hcfmaturia, with intervals of complete freedom from bleeding, are usually the only symptoms present. The urine is generally of a pinkish or bright red colour, and often con- tains distinct clots. The blood is usually pre- sent in greater quantities at the end than at the commencement of mictiu-ition, and at the very termination of the act almost pure blood may be passed. In the early stage the attacks of bleeding may last for a day or for several days, coming on without any warning or apparent cause, and then just as suddenly ceasing, but occurring again after a variable interval, often of some months. This condition of intermittent hcematuria may sometimes continue for years, but as time goes on the attacks become more frequent, recurring at shorter intervals and last- ing for a longer period on each occasion, until at length blood is never absent from the urine. As the hsematuria is at first luiaccompanied by pain or other symptoms, it will often be found that the patient has paid little attention to it. Sooner or later, however, as the growth increases in size, and especially if it involves or is situated in the neighbourhood of the neck of the bladder, acting like a foreign body, it becomes a source of irrita- tion and sets up chronic cystitis. All the symp- toms of cystitis then appear, micturition becoming l)ainful and frequent and pus appearing in the urine, which presents the usual evidence of the existence of this condition. Otlier Sj/mptoms ivhich may develop are as follows .—Difficulty in micturition, owing to the growtli blocking the vesical orifice of the urethra, most likely to occur when it is situated near the neck of the bladder, or when it is pedunculated. Retention of lu'inc, due to tlie same cause, or to impaction of clots of blood in the lu'cthra. Sudden stoppage in the flow of urine, due to either of the causes last mentioned. Protrusion of the growth from the external orifice of the urethra in females. Expulsion of portions of the growth in the urine, in the form of villous processes which have become detached from its surface; these appear as fine shreds of tissue, which, examined microscopically, show the characteristic structure of the villi, viz. a central axis containing one or more capillary vessels, and invested with several layers of epithelial cells. Owing to their soft structure it is usually impossible to detect a papilloma on sounding the bladder, on digital examination per rectum (ir \-aginam, or upon bimanual palpation. On examination %vith the systoscope the villous pro- cesses can be seen floating and moving to and fro in the fluid contents of the bladder ; they are usually of a pinkish or a rose-red colour, and their small vessels are sometimes distinctly visible. By this means not only can the presence of a growth be verified, but in many cases its situation, as well as its size and the nature of its connection, can be accurately estimated. It will often lie found that after a cystoscopic examination or sounding the bladder, bleeding- is excited or increased, and when copious, this is of itself always suspicious of the presence of a growth. If a hollow sound is used, or if the bladder is washed out throiigii a catheter, it will often happen that on withdrawing the instrument it will bring away a small portion of the growth in its eye. In the case of females a digital examination of the Ijladder through the dilated lu-ethra will always reveal the presence ■of a growth. In cases of papilloma, just as in other forms of vesical tumour, secondary chanr/es of a degenerative nature are sooner or later set up in the kidneys, in consequence of the back-pres- sure which is produced, when the growth offers any obstruction to the entrance of the urine into, or to its escape from, the bladder. The conditions most commonly met with are inter- stitial nephritis and hydronephrosis; when cystitis is present, septic inflammation may spread upwards along the ureters to the kidneys, setting up pyelitis, often accompanied by sup- puration in the substance of the gland. The prognosis in papillomata is, therefore, very unfavourable, for if allowed to run their course, which may last for years, as a rule they ulti- mately prove fatal. Though death may be due to mere loss of blood, a condition of profound anremia ) icing produced, and the patient's strength and vital power being reduced by this cause, as well as by the severe suffering clue to the supervention of cystitis, yet there is gene- rally superadded one or other of the renal complications just mentioned. In cases where the growth takes on a malignant action, the