356 BALNEOLOGY Cevennes mountains, has thermal and weakly alkaline carbonated chalybeate water, and sub- thermal " piscine " baths. Rennes-les-Bains (Dep. of Aude), lOIfi, carbonate and sulphate of iron springs. Orezza (Corsica) has gaseous chalybeate waters. See also Indifferent Waters, Bagneres de Bigorre. Sulphur Waters.—The following are thermal, and situated in the Pyrenees. They all contain sulphur in the form of sodium sulphide or sulphydrate in proportions varying from 1 to 7 parts in 100,000. Bagn^ires de Luchon, 3000. The waters (sulphide 5 to 7 parts per 100,000) are used internally and for baths, inhalations, etc.; Cauterets, 3200 (sulphide 1 to 2 parts) ; Eaux Bonnes, iHOO (sulphide 2 parts); Eaux Chaudes, "2050 (sulphide 0-8 part). I5areges, J/^OO (sulphide 4 parts), has highly stimulant thermal baths and douclies, the effects of which are aided by climate. The " baregine" or organic matter of the springs consists of an alga [Leptomitus sulphurarius) which is peculiar to thermal sulphur waters. St. Sauvbur, 2500 (sulphide 2 parts), sedative and subthermal baths. Ax-les-Thermes, 234-0 (sulphide 1 to 2 parts), Amelie-lbs-Bains, 920 (sulphide 1 part), and Vernet-les-Bains, 2060 (sulphide 4 parts). Uriage, 1350, is a subthermal spring in the Dauphine Alps, containing sulphuretted hydro- gen. Challes (Savoy), 880, possesses one of the strongest cold sulphur waters in Europe. The sulphur occurs as sodium sulphide (50 parts per 100,000), together with iodide and bromide. This water is much employed locally for the respiratory mucous membranes (pulverisations, inhalations, etc.) as well as internally {see Indifferent Thermal Waters, Aix- les-Bains). Pietrapola and Guagno (Corsica) are thermal sulphur springs containing about 2 parts of sulphide. Germany Indifferent Thermal Waters. — Wildbad, 14^0, in the Black Forest, temperature 91° to 104° F., subthermal and vapour baths and douches. Schlangenbad (Nassau), 900. The water (82° to 90° F.) contains nitrogen and oxygen gas, and is used for subthermal baths, which have a valuable alterative and sedative quality. The water of Badenweiler, I4OO, also in the Black Forest, has a temperature of 79° F. Landeck and Warmbrunn (in Prussian Silesia) are subthermal waters containing minute quan- tities of sulphur. MuRiATED Waters.—Nauheim (Grand Duchy of Hesse), 4OO, a subthermal (82° to 95-5° F.) muriated water with 1 to 3 per cent of salt, and rich in free carbonic acid gas. There is also a cold chalybeate. The baths subthermal, muriated or muriated and gaseous. There are also car- bonic acid gas baths. Kreuznach (Rhenish Prussia), 34.O. The waters are cold and contain chloride of sodium 1 per cent, and chloride of calcium O'l per cent. Douches, pulverisations, hot-air baths, etc. Homburg (Hesse-Nassau), 600, has cold muriated chalybeate springs, effer- vescent with carbonic acid gas. Wiesbaden (in the same province), 380, possesses muriated waters at 100° to 156° F., with a considerable gaseous element. The thermal baths are highly stimulating. Douches, vapour baths, etc. Kis- siNGBN (Bavaria), 600, a cold muriated water, containing much free carbonic acid gas and a small quantity of iron. Besides hot salt baths, mud baths, and inhalations, gas baths are here employed. Baden-Baden, 650, numerous ther- mal muriated springs (124° to 150° F.), with traces of lithimn and arsenic. Baths of various kinds, including thermal, hot-air, vapour, and local mud baths. Oeynhausen (Westphalia), 230, and Sodbn (Hesse-Nassau), 4-50, have sub- thermal carbonated muriated waters resembling those of Nauheim. See also Sulphur Waters— Aachen, and Chalybeate Waters—Pyrmont. Alkaline Waters. — Neuenahr (Rhenish Prussia), 760, has subthermal (96° F.) alkaline waters, employed for drinking, baths, and inhala- tions. Salzbrunn (Prussian Silesia), 1320, has cold alkaline waters. At Ems (Prussia), 300, there are numerous thermal (80° to 120° F.) alkaline muriated springs, much used internally and by inhalation for catarrhal conditions. Elster (Saxony), 1500, has a cold sulphated alkaline water containing much free carbonic acid gas. There is an effervescing chalybeate which is used for baths, and there are also moor baths. Calcareous Waters.—Wildungbn (Waldeck), 980, possesses cold carbonated waters (calcium and magnesium), with much free carbonic acid gas. Lippspringe (Westphalia), Jf.50, is a weak calcareous water at 70° F., with some nitrogen gas. Chalybeate Waters.—Schwalbach, 950 (in the Taunus range), has a strong cold carbonated effervescent chalybeate water, much used inter- nally and for baths. Peat baths are also given. At KuDOVVA (Silesia), 1270, there is an alkaline chalybeate, with peat and gas baths. Driburg (Westphalia) and Rippoldsau and other health resorts in the Black Forest possess valuable carbonated chalybeate waters. Pyrmont, 4^0, has both muriated and effervescing chalybeate waters, and provides gaseous-iron and moor baths. Sulphur Waters. — Aachen (Aix - la - Cha- pelle), 530. The thermal waters (113° to 133° F.) are muriated and sulphurous, and are used for drinking, baths, and inhalations. The baths are much employed as an adjunct to the mer- curial treatment of syphilis. At Weilbach (Hesse-Nassau), 440, the sulphur springs are cold and alkaline. Nbnndorf in the same province has very strong sulphTiretted waters and gaseous and sulphurous mud baths. At Mbinberg (Lippe Detmold) and Eilsen there