P.LOOD, PHYSIOLOGY AND C iLlNTCAL INVESTlGA'l^ION OF 421 alcoliol and ether for half au hour to two hours, osmic acid or forinahii vapour, 10 to 30 per cent alcohol formalin (Gulland), etc. Fixation hy means of alcohol and etker is a good clinical method, and for such a stain as Chenzinsky's methylene blue eosin perhaps the liest of all. Osmic acid is i;ood for rapid fixation of tho fresh blood for demonstration of blood plates, but it so disturbs tho staining properties of the granules as to render it often useless. Formalin vapour and 10 per cent alcoholic i'ormalin solution, as reconmiended recently by Gulland, are both valuable means of fixatit)n. They act rapidly, are exceedingly good for the demonstration of Itlood plates, and preserve tlie contour of the erythrocytes very well. Unfor- tunately they afi'ect the staining properties of the cells, especially in the case of triacid staining. The two methods that are most commonly employed for fixation of the moist films are those of Muir and (Julland. Muir's metliod. — A few seconds after the films have been taken, they are placed face downwards in saturated HgCl^ solution in 0-75 per cent NaCl for half an hour at a temperature of about 50° C. They are then taken out, washed thoroughly in normal saline, and then taken through 50 per cent alcohol in -75 per cent NaCl, and the rest of the alcohol series to absolute alcohol. They are then ready for stain- ing with alcoholic stains, or, after washing with water, for treatment with watery stains. This method is of great use for the study of leucocytic structm-e. It is not good for the study of the erythrocytes, or for the characters of the granules in the leucocytes. The red cells are frequently very much dis- torted, and the hcemoglobin is largely removed. In Gidland's wet method the films are left for three to four minutes in the following solution :— Absol. alcohol saturated with eosin . 25 c.c. Ether 25 c.c. HgClo in absol. idcohol (2 gms. in 10 c.c.) 5 drops then rapidly washed in water and stained as desired with saturated watery methylene blue, Mayer's luiematein or triacid, about f)ne minute being sufficient for either of them. This method is a rapid clinical one, and gives in many cases good results. It also, like the preceding one, distorts the erythrocytes. As to the different staining methods that are employed, there is no limit to their number. The choice will depend upon wliat 2''artictdar element in the film is going to be specially studied. If it be the specific granules in the cells, then watery alcoholic or glycerine solu- tions of the principal acid or basic stains are required. If it be for a general examination of all the elements in a film, the most useful stains are the triacid, eosin methylene blue and eosin hccmatein mixtures. The first is jjerhaps the best for the general characters of the granules and for use as a routine stain. Eosin and methylene blue, or methylene blue (saturated watery solution) alone, is exceedingly good for differentiation of nuclear structure and for basophilous granules. The former gives one of the most lieautiful blood pictures that are to be obtained. It is useful also for the study of degenerative changes in the erythro- cytes. _ Eosin and hsematein is an exceedingly good stain both for the red and white blood cor- jiuscles. It is also very useful for malarial blood. There are other methods for the examination of the morphological structure of the corpuscles which are useful for special purposes, e.g. fixation of the blood in Flemming's solution, and then taking the corpuscles wliich have settled and treating them by the paraffin method. The sections so obtained are treated in the usual way employed for ordinary tissues. In Biondi's section method the blood, after fixation in osmic acid, is mixed with agar-agar jelly, then hardened into alcohol, and embedded either in pith or paraffin. The block is then cut in the usual way. The objection to this method is the great dilution of the blood elements. III. Micro-Chemical Methods.—Glycogen.— Place the cover-glass film face iijDwards inside a small bell jar closed tightly below, and having within a few crystals of iodine. The action is finished in a few minutes and the film then mounted in la?vulose syrup. The glycogen- holding parts are stained mahogany lirown. [/SVe Glycogen Reaction.] Glucose.—Bremer suggested the employment of an eosin-methylene blue mixture for the diagnosis of diabetic blood. He said that the erythrocytes in such a case were not stained with eosin of the reddish violet or red brown tint, as with normal blood, but took on a yellowish green colour, or were unstained. This, however, has been shown now to be by no means a constant change in diabetes, and more or less the same alterations in tint of the red cells are noticed in other conditions. The same holds of Bremer's more recent methods with Biebrich scarlet and Congo red. Fat may be present in the form of droplets in the plasma, and also now and then in the leucocytes. Its character may be detected by its solubility in ether, blackening with 1 per cent osmic acid, and resistance to acetic acid. Pigment granules derived from hsemoglobin may be now and then seen in the plasma, as, for example, in cases of poisoning from sulphonal and potassium chlorate. They may be either crj'stalline or amorphous, and are distinguished by their brown tint. Charcot-Ley den crystals vary a good deal in shape, usually colourless rhombic plates or octa-