369 be specially noted : benzaldehyde (benzoic alde- hyde), benzamide (amide of benzoic acid), benzacetin (acetamidoethylsalicylic acid), benz- anilide (benzoic anilide), benzosalicin (salicin with benzoyl substituted for an atom of hydro- gen), and benzosol (gnaiacol benzoate). Berborine.—An alkaloid obtained from various species oF Berberis (e.g. Berberis aristata, B. lyc'mm), and having an uncertain pharma- cological action. The dried stem of B. aristata is among the official drugs of the Indian Adden- dum (1900) to the British Pharmacopoeia; of it there is a Liquor Berheridis Concentratus (dose, l to 1 fl. dr.), and a Tinctura Berheridis (dose, ^ to 1 fl. dr.); and it is used as an antiperiodic (in malaria), as a tonic, and in ophthalmia (locally). Berger'S Operation. See Shoulder, Diseases op {Interscapulo-thoracic Amputation). Bergeron's Disease. See Chorea. Beriberi. Gboghaphical Distribution, etc. . . 369 Causes and Symptoms .... 370 Diagnosis ...... 372 Treatment ...... 373 See also Gangrene. Definition. — A specific form of peripheral neuritis occurring endemically and, occasionally, as an epidemic of wide distribution. In addi- tion to the usual phenomena of multiple peri- pheral neuritis, it is specially characterised by localised or general oedema and marked liability to dilatation of the heart. Nomeudature.—Till recently much confusion existed with regard to this disease, principally on account of its being confounded with other morbid conditions, the diversity of its clinical features, and the multiplicity of names bestowed on it. Now we know that the " beriberi" of India, the " barbiers " of Mauritius, the " morbus innominatus" of Brazil, the " sugar-works sick- ness " of Bahia, the " bad sickness " of Ceylon, and the " kakke" of Japan, are only different names for the same disease. The derivation of the term beriberi is un- certain. It was first used in European literature by Bontius, in 1629, and is possilily derived from a Cinghalese word signifying "extreme weakness." Geographical Distribution.—Our knowledge of this is very incomplete. Formerly believed to be limited to south-east Asia, beriberi is now known to occur here and there practically all over the tropical and a large part of the sub- tropical world. It has also been recognised in higher latitudes, as in Saghalien, in Newfound- land, in the United States, in Australia, and in Ireland. A better knowledge of the disease may have contributed to its recognition in hitherto unsuspected places, but it is also quite possible that its wide distribution in recent VOL. I times may be owing to the increased communi- cation going on all over the world, and the consequent importation of the infection into places previously immune. We know from Chinese and Japanese records that in ancient times beriberi was a common disease in j^arts of China, and a rare one in Japan. At present this distribution appears to be reversed ; the disease is comparatively uncommon in China and very common in Japan. In the latter country its frequency has enormously increased during the last century. Lately it has appeared, apparently for the first time, in Australia, both among the aborigines and among the immigrant Chinese. It has also broken out in Fiji (in Japanese coolies), in New Guinea, in the Sand- wich Islands, in New Caledonia, and in certain other places where it was formerly, if we can trust the records, unknown. The most im- portant centres of the disease at the present day are probably Japan, the Malay Archipelago, and Brazil. In certain of the Netherlands Indies (Java, Sumatra) the mortality from beriberi among coolies, soldiers, and sailors, at certain times and in certain places, is very great. In India and Ceylon in modern times it has become, apparently, a comparatively rare disease. It is quite possible that a proportion of the cases of multiple peripheral neuritis met with in Europe, and which have been attributed to alcohol, arsenic, cold, and the toxines of better- known infectious diseases, are really beriberi. It has been recognised quite recently in certain lunatic asylums in Great Britain, the United States of America, and, possibly, in France. Epidemiolofiy.—Although confined as a rule to certain limited areas, at times it may extend as a widespread epidemic over vast regions ; this was the case in Japan, and in the Brazils in the early sixties. Usually it picks out jDarticular dwellings or particular districts. It is prone in the endemic area to break out among coolie gangs engaged on extensive engineering works ; especially where the hygienic conditions are defective, as at the Panama Canal and Congo Railway works. It is very common among the labourers in mines and plantations in tlie Malay country. The Dutch native troops at Atcheen have also suffered much from this disease. Collective dwellings, such as asylums, l)arracks, jails, hospitals, schools, arc prone to become beriberi centres. Ships are specially liable to become infected, the disease often appearing in the crews even on the high seas. Both ships and buildings may retain their infectiveness for years, and that notwithstanding energetic attempts at disinfection. In such buildings or ships, when the warm season comes round, fresh cases of the disease are apt to occur, or old- standing ones to relapse. The question of the contagiousness of beri- beri has Vicen much discussed; so far the data are insufficient to justify a definite conclusion on 24