ANEURYSM 176 The Injection of Coagulants.—The danger of embolism is so great and suppuration has so frequently ensued after injection of perchloride of iron (Pravaz) drop by drop from a screw syringe, that this method should not be em- ployed. A solution of fibrin-ferment has been tried without success, and Wooldridge's ferment appears to be too powerful to be safe. Injection of Ergotin around the sac is useless, and acts only as an irritant. Intramural H.-ematoma—Dissecting Aneurysm When, owing to some lesion of its inner sur- face, blood finds its way into the substance of the wall of the aorta, it " dissects " the outer from the inner layers as it forces its way onwards. Seat. — Primarily, almost confined to the aorta; secondarily, the hajmatoma may extend along any or several of the primary branches. In one case it extended from the ascending aorta to the left popliteal. It may start in other great arteries, e.g. iliacs, as in Oliver's case —in which there were four separate lesions in the ascending and descending aorta; and both iliacs. The rupture of the inner coats is usually in the ascending aorta (55 out of 73 cases), but it may be as low as the bifurcation. The tear is usually transverse in the ascending aorta, and may extend all round the vessel: usually it runs only about half-way round. In the descending aorta the tear is more commonly vertical. From the initial rupture the blood works its way in all directions in the substance of the middle coat. In the great majority of cases a second rupture soon occurs through the external coat, and blood is extravasated into a neighbouring cavity surrounding connective tissue or adherent viscus. In 8 or 10 per cent of all cases the second rupture occurs through the internal coats back into the aorta; the outer layer thickens, and life may be considerably prolonged. The appearance on section, in such cases, is that of one tube within another, touching nowhere or along a line of varying width at different levels. When this line widens to something like half the circumference the appearance of the section is like that of a doui)le aorta. Blood flows through the new channel, which acquires a smooth aspect and is said to be lined by endo- thelium. In cavities where there is no flow the blood coagulates, and red or white clot is found. Where the dissecting process passes the origin of vessels it tends to extend along the trunks. The smaller {e.g. intercostal) are often torn across, even the larger are often thrombosed. Vessels thus affected are usually highly athero- matous; chronic interstitial nephritis, aortic dis- ease, and hypertrophy of the ventricle are common. But, exceptionally, all these may be absent. Etiology.—Dissecting aneurysm appears to be a little commoner in males than females, and occurs in middle or advanced life. Sometimes a violent or distinct effort starts the trouble; but often the patient is sitting or standing quietly, doing nothing to raise the blood-pres- sure. This is often high, however, from renal or cardiac disease. The marked atheroma, which is usual, renders rupture easier; but in some cases there has been little or none. Then congenital weakness, fatty degeneration of the middle coat, perhaps connected with obstiniction of a vas vasis and pure trauma, are the explana- tions offered. Symptoms. — In the acute cases — sudden, severe pain, usually in the thorax, sometimes in the loins, and collapse, rapidly fatal or re- covered from until the complete rupture occurs. In the chronic variety the train of symptoms is as follows : sudden severe pain, often causing fainting (but sometimes no such pain occurs, as in Oliver's case). The pain is said not to radiate down the arm, and not to cause sense of con- striction of the chest. Gradually the patient recovers and returns to work. Then follow symptoms as of heart disease—oedema of the legs, dyspnoea, palpitation. The pain may recur now and again. Usually a rough systolic mur- mur is heard over the cardiac area and on left of spine. In such cases life has been prolonged even to eight years, external rupture or cardiac failure being the immediate cause of death. Anuria may result from blocking of both renal arteries. Tear or blocking of several lumbar arteries leads to sudden, perhaps tem- porary, paraplegia. Blocking of the innominate may cause hemiplegia. Absence of symptoms, or presence of such as have just been noticed, usually throws the observer off the scent. Treatment can be only symptomatic whether a diagnosis is made or not. Arterial H.-ematoma When an artery is wounded, and there is some obstacle to the free escape of blood, it accumulates around the artery and forces its way along the neighbouring areolar planes, forming a hfematoma or blood-tumour. Under certain conditions this swelling may exhibit pulsation, bruit, thrill, and other signs of aneurysm—hence it is often called a "traumatic aneurysm." A similar state of matters results when an undilated artery is ruptured subcuta- neously, or wounded Vjy a fragment in a fracture. The obstacle to the escape of blood upon the surface is the only difference between these cases and corresponding injuries of arteries in open wounds. We have seen that similar hsematomata may arise from the leaking or rupturing of an aneurysm. When a woiuid in a large artery is quite small, longitudinal or punctured, and pressure is well applied, it will heal; but yielding of the scar may occur, and a true traumatic aneurysm manifests itself as the extravasated blood is absorbed. It will have a sac from the begin- ninsi continuous with the arterial coats.