57 ADOLESCENT INSANITY But when we examine into the same facts in regard to the next period—from 51 to 75— when life has begun to ebb and the energies to decay, though it cannot be said that the hard work and the strains of Hfe are then so great as at the second period, we find that those who die, out of the 12 per cent wiiich have remained ahve, have fallen victims to the neuroses in the high proportion of 33 per cent. Cleaidy the brain is rapidly failing in its capacity through decline at this period. Curiously enough, and it is not easy to explain it, the sixth and seventh *'ages"—the "lean and slippered pantaloon," and the "last scene of all," the second childish- ness and mere oblivion, " sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans eveiything "—from 76 to 100, constituting 3 per cent of the population, do not die from nervous faiku'es in anything like the same proportion as the previous era, for only 14'8 per cent of the deaths then result from the neuroses. The general conclusions seem obvious. Nature finds it hard to l)uild up a sound work- ing brain with energising power enough and makes many failures in the attempt to do so, but when she succeeds and the organ reaches a fair standard of capacity at full development at 25 or so, it is not then apt to be overset till the natural period of its decadence is reached. When that occurs, a disproportionate number of men and women die of the neuroses. It is certainly not surprising that the brain and nerve-centres find development into full working- strength a hard process, looking to their infinite complexity, and their inconceivable delicacy of structure. Nor is it wonderful, considering the frequent adverse circumstances of human up- bringing and perhaps bad heredity with a not favourable environment, that the nervous centres are found so often of weak power and durability. And when we further consider the highest of all the brain's functions, that of mental action and its unthinkable relation to organisation, it is still less wonderful that failures and disturbances occur in the development and I'etrogrcssion of the mental protoplasm. Relation of the Abnormal to the Normai^. —The insanities of development and decadence cannot properly be understood if they are not looked at in reference to the normal charac- teristics and activities, mental and bodily, of the early and delicate periods of life. The psychology of childhood, long neglected, is now a favourite, almost indeed a fashionable study, not only by the philosopher and the physio- logist but by the teacher and the parent. It is a large and, as yet, only half-understood subject, and can only be referred to here. In relation to child-insanity—a very rare condition —the normal mental characters that are of most importance are the slight inhibitory power, the excitability, the vivid fancy, and the difficulty of most children in distinguishing lietwecn their fancies and facts, the great sensitiveness to some kinds of impressions and not to others, with the quick and often undue reactiveness, the keen amenability to sense stimuli, and the volatility of mind of children. These psychological characteristics, along with the tendency to that transient mental dissolution we call delirium, when the tempej-atiu-e becomes even slightly raised, taken together with the constant trophic changes which the mere growth and develop- ment of function of the brain imply, are the dominant points of the child's brain in action. But as the mental finictions are not then fully evolved, neither do we then find systematiscd insanity common. Then, what a change in the mental charac- teristics and activities of the brain do the advent and growth of sex produce! The intensification and special direction given to the affective faculties, the new organic cravings, the enlarged moral horizon, the new delights of the poetic and romantic in jioetry and literature, all imply an evolution of fimction of the highest kind that had lain dormant before. The actual nutritional concomitants of sex, such as menstruation and the reflex influences from the sexual organs on the brain, are often disturbing to its equable working. The sudden appearance of intense altruism and the uprising of the religious instinct in its fidl strength change the whole "character." Above all, the hereditary instincts and the hereditary weakness that all the former generations have handed on to a man or woman, come first into view as regards the mental and moral nature between 15 and 25, and bring along with them great risks of mental disturbance. Little con- sideration is needed to show that all these changes are not sudden or rapid, but take years for their full development. A man or a woman's " character," power of inhibition and of endurance, and force of will, do not really develop at 15 but between 18 and 25, and that is found to be the most dangerous time for the onset of developmental or true adoles- cent insanity. That is, therefore, far more an adolescent than a pubescent psychosis. It is often assigned to puberty as a cause, but puberty is commonly years past before ever it appears. The Insanities of Childhood, Puberty, and Adolescence must all be regarded together if they are to be rightly considered, ^^'e may have inmiuty in childhood, but it is very rare. Brain instability seems to be represented in childhood by a liability to that short and acute psychosis we call delirium. The more neurotic the child the greater tendency for it to pass into a delirious condition, especially at night, on a very slight rise of temperature. Many a child with a strong neurotic heredity will become delirious at night with a temperature of 99°. There are many distinct varieties of delirium — the muttering, the screaming, that