24 ABDOMINAL TUMOURS, DIAGNOSIS OF I intussusception there is a sausage-shaped tumour in the course of the colon which hardens during manipulation or during attacks of griping pain. The Spleen.—As a rule an enlarged spleen is easily felt; it projects as an oval solid tumour from below the left costal arch, and passes downwards towards the iliac crest and forwards towards the middle line. It is superficial and mobile, and can be felt to descend with each inspiration. The upper or anterior margin is usually thin, and presents one or two well- defined notches. The lower or posterior edge feels rounded, and is quite free. The greatest enlargement occurs in leucocythfemia, in which disease the spleen may extend into the right side and cause a general enlargement of the abdomen. Abscesses, cysts, and new growths of the spleen are rare. They produce swellings or projections from the surface of the organ. A movable spleen is sometimes present, and, in extreme cases, may occupy any region of the abdomen. It has been mistaken for a fibroid or an ovarian tumour. The Fa7icreas.—The diagnosis of a tumour of this organ is often very difficult. The stomach and colon should be empty, and the abdominal walls rendered as lax as possible. Cancer of the head of the pancreas sometimes gives rise to a tumour situated somewhere between the um- bilicus and the ensiform cartilage and usually to the right of the middle line. The tumour is fixed, deep-seated, hard and nodular, and does not move with respiration. The gall-bladder is often distended; there is rapid emaciation and often intense and persistent jaundice. A cyst of the pancreas often reaches a large size, and forms a rounded fluctuating tumour in the upper part of the abdomen ; rarely a cyst has developed in the tail of the pancreas and j^ro- duced a swelling in the left hypochondrium. It must be remembered that a swelling in the epigastric, umbilical, and left hypochondriac regions may be due to hsemorrhagic or other fluid accumulations in the lesser ^:<erito7ieaZ cavity. The Omentum.—Tumours of the omentum are felt as irregular lobular masses in the lower epigastric and umbilical regions. They are superficial, usually dull to pei-cussion, and rarely descend a little during inspiration. Tubercular deposits may form lumps above the umbilicus or sausage-shaped tumours which stretch across the abdomen. Cancer of the omentum may simulate cancer of the liver or stomach ; from the former it may be distinguished by a band of resonance between it and the liver, from the latter by a careful examination of the stomach, both when empty and when distended by inflation. The Mesenteric and Retro-Peritoneal Glands.— Tubercular or cancerous deposits may produce palpable firm masses which are more or less fixed, and are situated at or below the level of the umbilicus. In some cases a glandular mass transmits pulsation from the underlying aorta. Examination per rectum may detect cancerous glandular masses pressing down on its upper wall, and leading sometimes to partial obstruc- tion of the bowel, and ascites may coexist from cancerous disease of the peritoneum. The Kidney.—In some subjects, especially in children and women with lax abdominal walls, a healthy kidney may be felt by bimanual palpation, but as a rule a kidney that can be distinctly felt is either displaced or enlarged. A displaced—" movable " or " floating "—kidney may be felt as a smooth, slippery tumour in the lumbar or umbilical region, and rarely even in other parts of the abdomen. It may be pushed in almost any direction, but more easily up- wards than downwards. In women, in whom it occurs most frequently, it is liable to become enlarged and more tender to palpation during the menstrual period. Sometimes the enlarge- ment is due to hydronephi'osis, rarely to cancer. In a large number of cases of movable kidney there are no symptoms; in others there are neurasthenic and dyspeptic manifestations; while in a third series of cases the patient is subject to feverish attacks in which there are severe abdominal pains, shivering, and vomiting, and which nmy lead to considerable emaciation. A tumour of the kidney—the result of hydro- nephrosis, malignant disease, a cyst, or an abscess—fills up the loin and extends forwards towards the front of the abdomen. It rarely causes enlargement behind, and may thus be distinguished from abscesses and other lesions outside the kidney, which frequently cause much projection posteriorly. A renal tumour on the left side niay resemble an enlarged spleen ; a hollow may usually be felt between an enlarged kidney and the costal margin, whereas an enlarged spleen passes beneath the ribs. In front, too, of a renal tumour the colon is commonly felt as a soft or yielding structure, sometimes as a thickened cord. Inflation of the colon is frequently of aid in diagnosis. The anterior margin of an enlarged kidney is rounded, whereas that of an enlarged spleen is sharp and notched. A distended gall- bladder may resemble a fluctuating swelling of the right kidney; but the latter can be traced back towards the spine, whereas the former is superficial and rises and falls with the I'esjjiratory movements. The Uterus.—A uterine myoma, when large enough to rise out of the pelvis, produces a firm mass in the middle line; it is dull to percussion, and sometimes a loud systolic hum is detected by auscultation. T'he diagnosis has to be made from a distended bladder, from an ovarian tumour, and from a uterus enlarged from causes other than fibroid tumour, such as pregnancy, retention of menstrual fluid, etc.