BONE, DISEASES OF 437 ment predominates in the clinical features. The favourite seat is at the ends of the long tubular bones ; it is nearly always localised, and there are neither multiple lesions nor metastases. In the interior of the bone, areas of granula- tion tissue may be found in the marrow, of an orange yellow colour, along with exudation of serous fluid ; when the fluid accumulates in a circiuiiscribed area, the condition has been described as false abscess, lymph abscess, or cyst of bone. The formation of sequestra is excep- tional. In the periosteum there may l;)e a similar formation of granulation tissue with exudation of serous fluid between the periosteum and the bone, or between the layers of the periosteum (periosteal ganglion), or in the over- lying celhilar tissue, in cyst-like cavities. In the adjacent joint there may be exudation of similar fluid (synovitis sei'osa, hydrops articuli). ClinicaUy it is characterised by pain, more or less severe at one or other end of the affected bone, and fever, it may be as high as 104° F. at the onset, with rapid defervescence, and the formation of a fluctuating swelling. The in- flammatory phenomena are feeble; there is rarely any phlegmon, or reddening of the skin. The fluid rarely comes to the surface and per- forates the skin. The eft'usion may absorb, and the bone may be left more or less thickened (hyperostosis). The mildness of the general symptoms in comparison to the considerable exudation is chai'acteristic. IVie Diar/nosis is onl}' made on pTuicture of the collection of fluid. It is usually regarded as a haimatoma or an abscess. If the swelling is incised, there escapes a variable quantity of albuminous liquid, transparent, amber-coloured, viscous, it may be like hydrocele fluid or like synovia; there may be oil droplets fi-om the maiTow. The bone beneath is not always bare. Thei'e may be a good deal of blood mixed with the exudation, especially in those following more directly on injuiy. The prognosis is good, even although the onset of symptoms is quite acute. Treatment. — If the condition has been dia- gnosed, it will suftice to evacuate the fluid through a cannula, and inject 10-15 cc. of carbolic lotion (5 per cent), with or without intermediate wash- ing out with saline solution (NaCl | per cent). The injection of the carbolic lotion prevents infection of the track when the cannula is with- drawn. Otherwise the collection of fluid is incised with complete antiseptic precautions, the fluid evacuated, whether outside or inside the periosteum, within the bone or cavity of the joint. If the marrow is opened into, any foci of granulations or minute sequestra shotild be removed with the spoon. Healing is usualh- rapid and permanent. 3. Growth-Fever (Ficvre de Croissance).— A condition especially described by French authors (Bouilly, Keclus, Poncet), of the nature of an osteomyelitis, unattended with exudation, suppuration, or necrosis, and resulting in the increase of the growth of the bones in length. It may be the explanation of what are popularly known in this country as growing pains, and rheumatism, especially in the lower limbs of children and adolescents. It is to be regarded as an attenuated form of staphylococcus osteomyelitis, because in the same individual one of the affected bones m&j go on to suppuration, or it may be the result merely of a congestion of the marrow occurring during the course of infective diseases. It is not always a true infection of the marrow. Attention is directed to it from the remarkable stimulus which the growth of the skeleton may receive in young subjects during or shortly after an acute illness, e.g. typhoid. Opportunities of investigating the natui-e of the lesion are exceptional; sevei'al authors de- scribe the conversion of yellow into red lymphoid marrow, the greater vascularity of the marrow, especially in the region of the ossifying junction, and in those specially active, viz. those at the knee in the lower limb, and at the shoulder and wrist in the upper liml). It may affect the other bones of the skeleton. Clinical Features.—Two types are recog- nised, one without fever, and one with (growth- fever proper). 1. The Non-Fehrile Forms.—The child com- plains of vague, diffuse, evanescent pains, of lassitude, and of feeling tired in its limbs. The child may be luiable to go about. More often it complains of special pains in its limbs, often referred to the joints, after a long walk or violent exercise. The joints are found to be normal; there is tenderness over the epiphysial junctions. Where the epiphysial junction is intrasynovial, as is the case in the hip, the joint itself is the seat of tenderness. There may be pains in the shafts of the bones in relation to exaggerated activity of the deeper layer of the periosteum. The pains may disappear after a night's rest, or last several days, or may come ^uld go over a considerable period. Recovery is the rule with increase in stature. The condition is usually regarded as rheumatism. 2. TJie Febrile Form is more of the nature of an illness, and may be mistaken for many other febrile conditions. The child is not well, has no appetite, is weary and disinclined to get up. It has pains in its head, and in the vicinity of the joints of its limbs. At times, especially in the evening, the skin is hot and bm-ning ; the temperature may rise to 104°. The illness maj- be sudden and acute, of two or three days' duration, or it may be milder and more pro- longed, and there may be relapses, several ■ within a year. The increase in stature usually amounts to four to six inches in a year. The skin of the limbs may present " growth-strife " (vergetures de croissance), resembling the stria)