ANAESTHESIA 140 That the blood-pressure falls during ansesthesia is admitted by all. This fall is the regular sequel to the initial rise referred to above. The causa- tion of this fall is even yet matter of dispute, but whether it is purely a peripheral one due to vaso-motor processes, whether due to cardiac weakening, or the result of several causes is of less importance to practical men than is the recognition of the fact and the appreciation of the consequences arising from diminished arterial tension. The result of peripheral, arterial, and capillary dilatation with loss of tone leads to two important results, the gradual deportation of the blood from the arterial areas into the venous areas and the failure of nature's safe- guards to the effect of gravity upon the hydro- static equilibrium of the circulation. The experiments of Leonard Hill show that, given the due interaction of the heart and the peri- pheral resistance, posture as such can always be counteracted in the conscious individual. The erect position does not, under normal circum- stances, deplete the cerebral circulation of blood, nor does the elevation of the feet permanently raise the arterial tension in the dependent areas of the circulation. When, however, chloroform has been inhaled the vaso-motor control is gradu- ally lost, there is no longer a checked flow from the arteries to the veins, the safeguards are lost and the circulation becomes controlled by the influence of gravity. In the erect posture the brain grows anjemic, and when the head is ■depressed below the feet the brain vessels grow engorged. It therefore becomes a question not only of maintaining the dosage of chloroform within a safe limit as regards respiration, but also of checking the fall of blood-pressure so as to pre- vent interference with the normal safeguards. There is no doubt that when the heart muscle, or the nervous tissue of the central nervous system, are inadequately supplied with o.xygen- ated blood, as must happen at a certain point in the fall of arterial tension, that the vitality of their protoplasm is so lowered that even a small quantity of chloroform becomes a lethal one. This obtains both in ansemia of the brain and in asphyxial conditions. This danger be- comes greater in persons who are antemic at the time of the inhalation of the chloroform. Thus we see that to avoid chloroform fatalities we must recognise and avoid (1) over-strong, i.e. insufficiently diluted, vapours; (2) undue fall of blood-pressure, whether the result of cardiac weakness, e.g. acute dilatation ; or para- lysis of the vaso-motor centres ; (3) insufficient elimination of the inhaled chloroform and deprivation of the required oxygen. Whatever method of administration leads to one or other of such results is one fraught with danger. The eff'ects of insufficient dilutioia of chloro- form vapour diifer according to the strength of the vapour inhaled. If a concentrated vapour of chloroform is presented to a patient at the commencement of the inhalation the fibres of the vagi in the re- spiratory tract are excited and the breath is held. Struggling commonly occurs, the glottis is closed, and the right heart fails to empty itself, the veins fill while arterial pressure falls. The lungs grow exsanguinated, and the coronary arteries no longer supply the heart muscle with nourishment. The asphyxia arising from the prolonged holding of the breath, and consequent cutting off" of the oxygen supply, causes violent respiratory efforts, and several deep inspirations occur which rapidly convey a poisonous dose of chloroform to the heart muscle and nerve centres. The patient dies at once, respiration and circulation failing together.^ One or two gasps may ensue which are the result of the incoordinated efforts of the respiratory centres to initiate respiration, but which are wholly in- effectual. These and the quivering arhythmic contraction seen in the heart muscle, if the chest is opened in this stage, are alike useless in maintaining respiration and circulation, as the protoplasm of both muscle and nerve is de- stroyed. If the vapour is less concentrated the order of events is somewhat different. The chloroform in the pulmonary blood may pass through the heart and be carried into the cir- culation and so cause a fall of blood-pressure, and, by acting directly upon the medullary centres, destroy them. Whether or not the patient can be recovered in these cases depends upon the dose of the narcotic taken and the length of time it remains in the circulation. Finally, when an excessive dose of chloroform is taken by the inhalation of a vapour of a strength of over 5 per cent, but not sufficiently concentrated to cause spasm of the glottis, the blood-pressure falls gradually, the circulation slowly fails, and finally the respiration also ceases. This commonly occurs in the later stages of the inhalation, and is the result of inattention, as the phenomena of this form of accident are clear and patent to any one who is watching the patient. The immediate resort to artificial respiration in the last case rapidly restores circulation and eliminates the chloro- form. When the heart, however, has under- gone paralytic dilatation this recovery is less certain. In the presence of burning oil or ilhnuinat- ing gas chloroform undergoes decomposition, a nauseating, irritating fog fills the room and excites painful chest-ache, cough, and coryza. This is due to the presence of carbonyl chloride. The inhalation of this gas has caused death in the case of those engaged in assisting at the operation, although lao patient, so far, has died from it. Ether explodes and inflames if brought in contact with a light. Upon the kidneys both chloroform and ether 1 Hill, British Medical Jmirnal, April 17, 1897.