122 AMMONIA inhalation of the vapour (from the liquor ammonise) is generally successful in restoring the patient; and the medicine is sometimes used as a stomachic. AlTHTIOnia,CUITI.—A gum-resin obtained as an exudation from certain Umbelliferous plants {Dorema ammoniacmn, etc.). It contains a volatile oil, and is used internally, in doses of 5 to 15 grains, in chronic bronchitis with exces- sive and offensive secretion. For external use there is the Emplastrum Ammoniaci cum Hydrar- gyro, acting as a mild countei'-irritant. Mistura Ammoniaci, given in doses of h to 1 fl. oz., is a milky-looking emulsion. Ammonisemia, {see Unconsciousness). —Poisoning of the blood following upon extra- vasation or retention of urine; it is supposed to be due to the decomposition of urea which sets carbonate of ammonium free ; and it is charac- terised by gastro-intestinal disturbance, a small pulse, a subnormal temperature, and cerebral symptoms ending in coma. Ammonium and its Salts.— Ammonium (NH^) has not been isolated, but is supposed to exist as such in the salts formed by the union of ammonia with acids ; it is regarded as one of the alkaline metals, the others which are used medicinally being potassium, sodium, and lithium. (1) Ammonii Carbonas (sal volatile) may be given in doses of from 3 to 10 grains as a stimulant and expectorant in bronchitis, especially in the aged ; in larger doses (30 grains) it is an emetic ; its preparation, Spiritus Ammonise Aromaticus (spirit of sal volatile), dose ^ fl. dr. (if repeated), or 1 fl. dr. (for a single administration), is of great use as a stimulant in syncope, and is employed also as a carminative and stomachic. See also Toxicology. (2) Ammonii Chloridum (sal ammoniac) is most commonly employed for its power of in- creasing the secretion from mucous surfaces, such as the pharynx, larynx, trachea, and Eus- tachian tubes. It is given, therefore, by inhala- tion in chronic pharyngitis, laryngitis, bron- chitis, and otitis media; but it may be adminis- tered internally in doses of 5 to 20 grains for the same purpose and in the same diseases. It is usefully combined with liquorice (to con- ceal the taste), and sometimes with cubebs. (3) Ammonium Acetate is employed in the form of Liquor Ammonii Acetatis (Minderer's Spirit) as a mild diaphoretic and diuretic in nephritis and feverish states. Liquor Ammonii Citratis is used for the same purposes. Of both, the dose is the same, 2 to 6 fl. dr. (4) Ammonium Phosphate is given, in doses of 5 to 20 grains, for its power of dissolving uric acid in cases in which there is a tendency to the formation of uric acid calculi and in gout. (5) Ammonium Bensoate has the action of benzoic acid, and is given in doses of 5 to 15 grains. Ammonii Bromidum is used as a nerve sedative and hypnotic (in doses of 5 to 30 grains) when the corresponding potassium salt causes cardiac depression. Amnesia. tS'ee Aphasia ; Hysteria ; ayid Memory in Health and Disease. Amnioma.—A congenital cutaneous pro- jection due to antenatal adhesion of the amnion to the skin of the foetus. Amnion. See Fcetus and Ovum, De- velopment OF; Pregnancy, Ovum and Decidua {Affections of the Amiiion); and Teratology. AmniorrhOQa.—The premature escape of the liquor amnii; it has been called amnio- klepsis, when it is vmperceived. Amnitis, Amniosis, Amniotitis. —Inflammation of the amniotic membrane, usually with increase of the liquor amnii, but sometimes with almost complete absence of it. Amosbse.—Protozoa of the class Rhizo- poda ; they are found in the buccal and vaginal secretions, as well as in the fseces (in dysenteric stools) and in the urine. See Dysentery ; F^CES; Liver {Amoeba coli); and Parasites {Amoeba). A mce bo id ism.— The performance of movements resembling those of an amoeba; amoeboid behaviour. See Unconsciousness {Am.oeboidism of Nerve Cells). Amoebula.—The parasite of malaria in its early amoeboid state; an amoeboid spore. See Malaria. AmorphUS.—A variety of acardiac mon- strosity ; one of the allantoido-angiopagous twin terata ; the foetus anideus. See Teratology. Am pll iaster.—Thedouble star formed in the cell during mitosis. See Physiology {The Cell). Amphistomum. See Parasites {Helminths). Amphoricity.—The condition in which an amphoric sound (one resembling that pro- duced by blowing across the mouth of a bottle) is given forth on auscultation or percussion. See Chest, Clinical Investigation of the. AmpilOteriC.—Partaking of both char- acters, neither acid nor alkaline; neutral; 6.17. cow's milk when first drawn from the udder has an amphoteric reaction. Am pull it is.—Inflammation of the am- pulla of the vas deferens or of the Fallopian tube.