ACROMEGALY 46 characteristic. The head is larger, and the in- crease affects tlie bony and soft parts. The skull is larger, and the occipital protuberance stands out markedly. The face is enlarged and oval, the orbits and zygomatic arch prominent, the nose is increased in all directions, the septum forming a broad bar, but most prominent is the size and projection (prognathus) of the lower jaw ; the lower lip is prominent, the ears are often very large, and the cartilage of the ear is thickened. The hands are enlarged, but keep their natural outline, as the increase affects both the soft and bony structures, the fingers are broad like sausages, the nails rather small, the feet are large, the toes broad, especially the big toe. The skiagraph shows the enlargement to be due chiefly to the soft parts, the bones are only slightly enlarged, and show occasionally a few osteophytic deposits, the foreai'm is often increased in thickness, the rest of the extremi- ties not markedly affected. The vertebral column in fully developed cases shows pro- nounced kyphosis in the cervical region, and all the bones of the thorax show an increase in size ; the clavicles are broad and stand out, and the lower part of the sternum shows a marked prominence. The appearance of a patient suffering from acromegaly is thus very characteristic, and the affection may often be recognised at a glance. Of other symptoms we may mention— General stature.—It is noticed that many of the patients are above normal size (20 per cent, according to Sternberg); the skin and subcuta- neous tissue is found thickened over the affected parts, but not otherwise altered, so that there is a marked similarity of appearance and facial expression in the different patients, the nails are small, the hair shows no marked change, the perspiration is often increased. Occasion- ally the skin is like that of myxoedema. Respiratory system. — One often notices an alteration of voice, which becomes thick or husky, and this is due to an enlargement of the cartilages of the larynx and thickness of the mucous membrane ; patients often suffer from attacks of dyspnoea, partly due to rigidity of the thoracic walls, and partly due to weakened heart action. In many cases (mostly in women) an enlarged thyroid is noticed, in others the thyroid appears diminished. In a good many cases marked dulness of percussion over the sternum has been noticed, and this has been put down to the persistent enlargement of the thymus (Erb); in several post-mortem examina- tions (one of my own cases) a quantity of fat was found in the anterior mediastinum, but scarcely any glandular structure. The circulatory system shows in most cases, when the disease has existed for some time, distinct dilatation and weakness of the heart. Digestive tract. —Tongue very much enlarged, the mucous membrane and the lymphatic struc- tures in the pharynx thickened ; disturbances in the functions of the digestive tract, such as in- creased thirst, increased appetite, constipation, etc., are often noticed. The liver and spleen are often enlarged, also the lymphatic glands, superficial and deep. Urine.—In many cases sugar appears in the urine, sometimes only in small quantities and intermittently; in others pronounced diabetes may occur, and death from diabetic coma is not rare (Bury, Cunningham, etc.); in others, one has noticed diabetes insipidus (this has been described in tumours of the hypophysis, even when there was no acromegaly); albuminuria occurs frequently. Generative organs.—The penis, prepuce, labia, and clitoris are often enlarged; with the de- velopment of the disease amenorrhoea occurs (Sternberg). Nervous system.—Most of the symptoms are of functional nature, yet muscular atrophy of the type of progressive muscular atrophy has been noticed, sometimes only atrophy of a few groups of muscles ; on the other liand, head- aches, occasionally of very severe and persistent nature, vertigo, pain, and immbness in the extremities are very common symptoms; the patient often shows signs of mental depression, signs of neurasthenia, and occasionally mental aberration. The reflexes are generally normal, only rarely are they absent (Freund). Interesting are the changes relating to the eye. A tumour of the hypophysis being so often found in this disease, the optic nerves in their course are compressed either in or near the chiasma, and thus changes in the retina (atrophy) and disturl>ance of vision have often been noticed, the latter often giving an indica- tion as to the situation of the tumour; thus in a few rare cases bi-temporal hemianopsia has been noticed, in others homonymous hemianopsia with hemiopic reaction of the pupil; whilst in others either blindness from atrophy of both papillae or blindness in one eye and hemianopsia, or contracted field of vision of the other eye, form the principal symptoms. Other affections relating to the eye which have been noticed are thickening of the lids and tarsus, hypertrophy of the lachrymal glands and increased secretion of tears, exophthalmos either of one or of both eyes, paralysis of one or more ocular muscles. Affections of smell and taste have been noticed, and also deafness, probably due to diminution of the lumen of the meatus (Sternberg). Course and Termination.—The disease runs a more or less chronic course; it commences insidiously, and beyond slight pains and sensory disturbances the patient only notices that the feet and hands and head get larger, and that he requires a larger-sized boot, glove, or hat. In some cases the affection of the eyes arouses the