BRAIN, PHYSIOLOGY OF 465 thoso fur thf ;inii in the iutemiediate portion, aud those for the mouth, the tongue, lips, and laiynx in the lowest part. The nio\ements of tlie lower extremity are arranged along the margin of the great longitudinal fissure from before Ijackivards, as follows : hip, ankle, knee, great toe, and small toes. The movements of the arm are arranged/Vo?h. (dove dotmiwardx, as follows: shoulder, elbow, wrist, fingers, index, tliumb. The movements of lips, mouth, larynx, and pharynx are all represented on the ascend- ing frontal and parietal convolutions below the lowest anterior curve of the fissure of Rolando. Their relative position is indicated in the dia- gram, and need not lie specially described. x\dditional areas for the movements of the iiead and eyes to the ojjposite side are figured at the hinder extremities of the two upper frontal gyri. The lower frontal gyrus, in the left side, often termed Broca's convolutions, is the motor speech-centre {see " Aphasia "). The positions within the internal capsule of the conducting strands to and from the various areas of the cortex are of importance to the clinician. Speaking generally, the motor fibres occupy the " knee " and the anterior two-thirds (>f the posterior limb of the capsule, being therein distributed from before backwards, eyes, head, mouth, tongue, upper limb, trunk, lower limb. The position of the filires subserving various fmictions is indicated in the accompanying figure. The anterior liml) of the capsules con- veys fil)res from the non-excital)le remainder of the frontal lolie to the cells in the pons. The formation of these fibres is as yet unknown. Tiie posterior third of the hinder limb of the capsule contains the ingoing sensory fibres on their way to tiieir termini in the cortex, and also descending fibres of imknown function from the temporal loVie to the pons. Within the cerebral peduncle they are arranged from within outwards, as follows : arm, face, leg. Sexsory Centres.—These are not determined with the same degree of definiteness as the motor areas, owing, no doulit, to the greater difficulty of interpreting the results of ments in animals. Sight.—The centre for sight seems to most definitely ascertained, and both experiment and clinical observations indicate that in the neighbourhood of the calcarine fissure, especially in the cuneus and in the lingual and fusiform lobes, lies the " half - vision " centre. If this region is destroyed, blindness results in the opposite halves of the fields of vision of the two retinie (homonymous hemianopia). It has recently been rendered probable by Mackay and Dunlop that the " half colour-vision " centre is situated in the fusiform lobe (Fig. 2). Hearing.—The centre for hearing is in the middle of the first temporal convolution. The limited number of clinical observations available winch have been confirmed by post - mortem vol.. I experi- be the examination seem to indicate that destruction of the upper temporal convolutions jjroduces deafness in the opposite ear, but that this is soon compensated for—a result easily compre- hensi)_)le when the relations of the central paths from the auditory nerve are taken into con- sideration. In the section on the auditory nerve EYES OPEN E/ES TURN MOUTH OPENS HtA0S.tr[5 TURN HEAD TURNS TONGUE MOUTH RETR SHOULDER ELBOW WRIST FINGERS T HUMS TRUNK HIP ANKLE KNEE HALLUX rOES Fig. 5.—Horizontal section of left In-misiilii'ie of tlie brain of a monkey to show the excitable area of the internal cajisule ; the movements of the different parts of the body, and the order in which they were obtained when the fibres were stimulated electrically, are shown in the margin. C.N., Candato nuclens, and L.N., Lenticular nucleus of the corjms striatum; O.T., Optic thalamus; I.C., Internal capsule; M., Excitable or motor part; S., Sensory part; O.R., Optic radiations.— C. E. Beevok, Diseases of Nervous System. it is shown that the cochlear nuclens sends fibres to the posterior corpus quadrigemiinnn of its own side as well as to the opposite side, and as this ganglion is connected with the internal geniculate body and through this with the auditory cortex, compensation can be easily effected. Smell.—The centre for smell appears to be situated in the tip of the tincinate gyrus on the same, and probably, too, on the opposite, side. In disease of this region epilejitic fits marked by olfactory auras have been noted. Toveh and muscular .sen.se. — The centre for the perception of tactile impressions is ly some located in the gyrus fornicatus, by others in the " motor " cortex. It is certain that portions of the motor cortex may be removed without loss 30