ANEURYSM 181 wliich shows whether :i finger from such u w(juiid can control the first part of the snbclavian. 2nd, In a hacmatoma due to gunshot, Myles placed a temporary loop round the first part of the sub- clavian, and then, having obtained control of the circulation, he opened the h.cmatoma and tied the artery (3rd pt.) above and below the wound. The case recovered miinterruptedly. This necessitates two grave operations. Tlierefore it would seem that Synie's plan should be tried : if the ends cannot be secured during control by the finger a proximal loop may be added. If the direct attack is put aside, nothing remains but ligature on the proximal side or plugging. Theoretically one would prefer to tie the second part to the first, and the first part to the innominate ; but, according to existing statis- tics, ligature of the innominate and carotid comes out better than ligature of the first or second parts of the right sul)clavian. Aneurysm of the Third Part.—If it is possible to tie the third or second part, this should be done. If there is no room, the question is an extremely grave one. H. Allingham has pub- lished a successful ligature of the first part, but recurrence necessitated excision. Distal li(jature of the third part has once been done with success, the carotid being also tied, as compression of it lessened pulsation in the sa«. Ligature of the innominate and carotid (as a guard against distal haemorrhage) has been twice successful. Mitchell Banks also per- formed this operation successfully, but pulsa- tion recurred the same evening, and was strong l»y the third day. The first part of the sub- clavian was then tied, and the patient died of luTcmorrhage. Excision of the sa.c has been done twice suc- ciwsfully, by Schopf (this was really a high axillary consolidated aneurysm pressing on the plexus and taken for a tumour) and by Halsted, and unsuccessfully by Moynihan. Both Halsted and Moynihan resected a piece of the clavicle ; Halsted took it away with the aneurysm after he had tied the left subclavian " where it issued from the thorax." Moynihan sutvu-ed the piece of clavicle into place. His patient died from rupture of a small sac on the proximal side of the proximal ligature. The woiuid had healed, the patient was up, and the ends of the artery were well closed. Taking into consideration the freedom of the circulation in this region and the frequency with whicii pulsation recurs after the proximal ligature—than which no operation has been more deadly—primary excision seems to deserve a fair trial. Amputation at the shoulder, with ligature of the axillary as high as possible, is the last operative method in these cases. The aneurysm may have consolidated in one case out of five. HcBmatomata and Aneurysms on the Left Side. —For some reason unknown, ligature of the first and second parts of the subclavian has yielded far better results than on the right. Vertebral Artery.—Htematomata from stil- etto wounds have been pretty often recorded. They have sometimes been diagnosed as occi- pital, because pressure below the sixth costal tubercle acts upon both carotid and vertebral ; above this point the carotid only can be compressed. Treat by incision and plugging with iodoform gauze, or by 'ligature after cutting away an anterior tubercle above and below. ANEURYSiMS OF THE NeCK External Carotid.—Aneurysms of the ex- ternal and internal carotid are rare. I have notes of a case apparently due to embolism, and of another attributed to a blow. Their nature was obvious. The sac of the first mentioned pressed on the hypoglossal and caused hemiatrophy of the tongue. Ligature of the common carotid was the treatment, imtil surgeons recognised the danger of embolism and softening after this operation. Of eleven cases only five were cured, while three died. Ligatiu-e of the external carotid was done only once and failed (Delbet). The obvious reason for these failures is the excessively free anastomosis. Excision is indi- cated. If there is good reason for not perform- ing it, proximal ligature as near as possible to the sac should be done, and be followed by excision in case of failure. The common carotid should not be tied if there is room for a thread between it and the sac. Ixternal Carotid.—Aneurysms may be intra- cranial {q.v.) or cervical. The latter are very rare. They cause a swelling which bulges into the pharynx, pushing the tonsil and soft palate before it. The circulation in the mucosa is impeded, and the parts look smooth, tense, and purple, closely resembling an abscess—for which it has more than once been opened. It may press upon any of the many nerves by which it is surrounded, and interfere with the cerebral circulation. A loop on the artery may simulate an aneurysm. Treatment by compression is not very successful, and proximal ligature of the conmion carotid has had a high mortality. It would be better practice to tie the root of the in- ternal carotid when possible, and thus shut out the anastomotic circulation through the external. Common Carotid.—Causes.—Arterial hremato- mata are rare. Sometimes a twist or violent grip of the neck is regarded as the cause of tnie aneurysm, but usually no course is known. This aneurysm occurs often in young adults, and syphilis may sometimes be strongly suspected as the cause; it is decidedly the commonest external aneurysm among women. Seats.—By preference the bifurcation ; then the root in the right side : but aneurysm may occur anywhere except at the root on left side, no specimen of which is known.