BALNEOLOGY 354 for which a local application of heat may prove quite as stimulating as a general application would be for robust persons. V. Summary of the Chief Mineral Waters AND Baths [J)^ote.—In the following summary MT. sig- nifies Mean Temperature, and R. Rainfall ; and the figures in italics represent the altitude in feet of the station above sea-level.] Great Britain Thermal and Subthermal Waters.—Bath (Somerset), 100, R. 32, MT. 50-5°. The Aquae Sulis, or Solis, of the Romans, an indifferent thermal water, temperature 104" to 120° F. The waters, which are but little used internally, contain calcium sulphate and cai'bonate, and small qviantities of the chlorides of magnesium and sodium, in all 168 grains per gallon, with 4 grains of nitrogen gas. They arc used in various thermal applications, including immer- sion baths and douches, and by pulverisation and natural vapour baths, general and local (BerthoUet apparatus). Douches are combined with massage, as at Aix-les-Bains and Vichy. Buxton (Derbyshire), 1000, R. 48-2, MT. 46-2°, a subthermal water, temperature 82° F. The waters, which are weakly mineralised (27 grains per gallon), contain bicarbonates of calcium and magnesium, with considerable quantities of free nitrogen. There is also a chalybeate water. Immersion baths and douches are used at both the natural and at higher temperatures, with and without massage. At the natural heat the baths produce a sedative effect. Taken alto- gether, the Buxton treatment, in which climate is an important factor, is well adapted to con- ditions of weakness the result of chronic disease. Matlock Bath (Dei-byshire), indifferent water at 68° F. Bakewell (Derbyshire), Ji.00, in- different water at 60° F. Clifton (Somerset) has a " hot well " at 73° F. Mallow (County Cork), an indifferent water at 70°-72° F., the only warm spring in Ireland, and formerly much frequented. Sulphur WATER-i.—Harrogate (Yorkshire), 260-600, R. 28-5, MT. 46-5°, a bracing climate with a comparatively dry atmosphere. Cold muriated-sulphur and chalybeate waters. The sulphur waters are numerous, and mostly im- pregnated with salt. Sodium sulphide occurs in them in quantities varying from I to 5 or more grains, and sodium chloride from 116 to 893 grains per gallon. In the different chaly- beates the iron is found as carbonate, sulphate, and chloride. The waters are used externally and internally. There are also different forms of douche, with and without massage. Strath- peffer Spa (Ross-shire, Scotland), 200, R. 31, MT. 45-5°, sulphur and chalybeate waters, peat and douche baths. The climate is sheltered, cool, and bracing. Excepting Laurvig and some others in Norway, Strathpeffer is the northernmost of European spas. Many sources of sulphur water, containing a relatively small amount of solids, chiefly sulphates of calcium and sodium, and sulphuretted hydrogen 3 to 19 cubic inches per gallon. The chalybeate well contains 2-46 grains of the carbonate of iron. In addition to the sulphur baths, a low-pressure douche-massage is employed at Strathpeffer. The peat baths are prepared from disintegrated peat or moor earth taken from deep beds on the side of Ben Wyvis. Llandrindod (Radnor- shire), 700, R. 35, climate bracing and exhilar- ating, a cold muriated-sulphur and chalybeate spa. The amount of salt (163 to 334 grains) is considerably less than at Harrogate, and there is a relatively large amount of chloride of calcium (47 to 98 grains). The sulphur occurs as sulphuretted hydrogen (2 to 4 cubic inches). The chalybeate water is also nuiriated (chloride of sodium 278 grains) and contains 1"26 grains of ferrous carbonate to the gallon. The usual suljjhur-water and douche baths supplement the internal use of the waters. Llaxwrtyd (Breck- nockshire), 800, more sheltered than Harrogate, a pure sulplnn- water (chloride of sodium 60 grains, sulphuretted hydrogen 10 cubic inches). BuiLTH (Brecknockshire), about ^00, a more strongly muriated - sulphur water (chloride of sodium 878 grains per gallon). Moffat (Dum- friesshire), ^'^t^, mild sulphuretted and chalybeate waters. Lisdoonvarna (Co. Clare), 4-30, sulphur and chalybeate waters. Among other sulphur waters in Great Britain may be mentioned: AsKERN Spa (near Doncaster), with 10 to 15 cubic inches of sulpliuretted hydrogen ; Gils- land Spa (near Carlisle) ; Shap Wells (Westmoreland) ; Croft Spa (Yorkshire) ; and Dinsdale-on-Tees (Durham) ; also in Ireland, Lucan (Co. Kildare) ; Swanlinbar (Co. Cavan); and Ballynahinch (Co. Down). Muriated Waters.—Droitwich (Worcester- shire), 200, R. 26-5, MT. 50-3°. The brine of Droitwich is one of the strongest known, for like the Dead Sea it is nearly saturated with common salt. It contains 21,761 grains per gallon, whilst sea water, the most familiar of muriated waters and salt baths, contains 1946 grains. Like other highly muriated waters that of Droitwich can only be used externally, either as baths, or lotions, or compresses, or by pulverisation to the mucous surfaces. The stimidating effect of these outward applications is sometimes very valuable, and the sense of warmth experienced after the bath illustrates this effect, produced through the vessels of the skin. Nantwich (Cheshire), 150, a somewhat similar brine to that of Droitwich, used for immersion baths. Woouhall Spa (Lincoln- shire), 37, R. 22-7, a cold muriated spring, which may probably have a connection with the sea, containing 1330 grains of chloride of sodium, with 3 grains of bromides and a minute quantity