INVESTIGATION OF ABDOMEN, CLINICAL of the excreta, of any vomited material, and of fluids obtained by exploratory puncture. Sympioms, etc.—In most cases of abdominal disease the symptoms from which a patient suffers are referred to the abdomen, or to dis- turbance of the functions of some of its viscera, but it is important to remember that this is not alwaj's the case. For example, palpitation or irregularity in the action of the heart may be the chief manifestations of dyspepsia; con- vulsions may be produced by a worm in the intestines; tetany is occasionally the most prominent phenomenon in gastric dilatation; and a condition similar to pernicious anaemia is sometimes associated with atrophy of the stomach. Then many abdominal diseases tend to produce mental depression, and sometimes actual melancholia. The writer can recall one case of cancer implicating the posterior wall of the stomach, in which the prominent symptoms for many months were those of neurasthenia. On the other hand, symptoms referable to the abdomen may be initiated by disease else- where ; thus pain in the front or side of the abdomen may be due to pleurisy or to spinal caries; vomiting may result from acute peri- carditis, or from a tumour in the brain ; intense paroxysmal pain in the epigastrium, associated with severe vomiting, may be the chief, possibly the only, symptoms in the early stages of loco- motor ataxia. These observations show how necessary it is to make a careful study of all the symptoms presented by a case, and how important it is to keep our minds open and free from bias, not forgetting that pain in the abdomen may depend on lesions elsewhere, and that nervous phenomena such as convulsions, vertigo, or mental disturb- ance may be closely related to disease of some abdominal oi'gan. The doctrine of referred pain, which has been carefully studied by Ross, Mackenzie, Head, and others, is one of great importance, and will be noticed in the various articles dealing with diseases of special organs. In addition to the site of pain, its characters and associations re- quire investigation. As regards abdominal disease, pain reaches its greatest severity in acute peritonitis, and in the form of colic in cases of intestinal obstruction and of renal, or biliary, calculus. The time relations of pain, whether constant, intermittent, or periodic, its connections with the taking of food, with vomiting, with the passing of urine or fajces, are also points to be elicited. Thus the pain of uterine disease is often periodic; that of renal or biliary colic may begin and end abruptly; that of gastric ulcer usually ensues some time after taking food; while that dependent on cancer, or on aneurysm, may be more or less constant. In a similar manner the occurrence of vomit- ing, any peculiarities relating to digestion, to micturition, or to defsecation, are other questions that may require detailed investigation. Then inquiries as to the mode of onset and course of the symptoms, before the patient came under observation, often throw light on the nature and situation of the lesion. Thus the abrupt onset of colicky pain while the patient is walking or j^erforming an action may be the earliest sign of acute intestinal obstruction ; gradual and progressive weakness and wasting is often a striking fact in the history of abdominal cancer or tuberculosis. Questions should also be asked regarding the previous health of the patient, or any former illness, or any operations that may have been performed. A history of syphilis, for example, may give a clue to the nature of a nodular liver; a history of symptoms pointing to previous attacks of intra-abdominal inflamma- tion may elucidate the cause of an obscure case of intestinal obstruction, and so on. The habits, occupation, and place of residence, should also be ascertained. In illustration it will suffice to mention the relation of cirrhosis of the liver to over-indulgence in alcohol; the colic and symptoms of intestinal obstruction sometimes due to lead-poisoning, and the bearing of resi- dence abroad on the possibility of an obscure abdominal swelling being an hydatid cyst, or of an enlargement of the liver being caused by an abscess. Examination of the Patient.—Before pro- ceeding to examine the abdomen, it is desirable to make observations with respect to the general appearance and condition of the patient—to take the temperature, to feel the pulse, to inspect the tongue, to observe the colour and expression of the face, the attitude of the body, and the state of nutrition. Details regarding these points will be given in future articles, but I would emphasise the importance of beginning the examination by a careful inspection of the patient. For example, in many affections of the abdominal organs, the face expresses irri- tability or profound depression; in acute peri- tonitis it looks pinched and withered ; in severe ulceration of the bowels and in malignant disease the expression known as risus sardonicus, in which the upper lip is elevated, making a deep furrow on each side, curving down from just above the ala nasi towards the angle of the mouth, is often very conspicuous. Drawing up of the lower limbs suggests severe pain in the abdomen, as from peritonitis ; when one leg is drawn up there may be renal or biliary colic, or appendicitis, or localised pelvic inflammation. Again, much emaciation points to malignant disease or to tuberculosis; marked prominence of the venous radicles of the face with a sallow skin suggests hepatic cirrhosis; jaundice sug- gests disease of the liver, or in its vicinity; general dropsy indicates Bright's disease. Inspection of the Ahdomen. — The abdomen