288 ASCITES symphysis pubis, at first perhaps only when the patient is sitting np. Later it is present also in the recumbent position, and it can be traced round into the flanks. The upper edge of the dull area is now crescentic, with the concavity directed upwards. The continued increase of the effusion is marked by the progressive shrinking of the resonant area lying within this crescentic outline. In extreme cases the re- sonant area is finally limited to a small oval or pyriform patch situated between the umbilicus and the ensiform cartilage. In rare cases, usually when the mesentery is shortened by chronic peritonitis, the resonant area is com- pletely oblitei'ated. In all degrees of ascites the boundary-line between the dull and resonant areas will be observed to shift as the patient turns from one side to the other, the resonant intestines tending to assume the uppermost position. Over all the dull area in any stage of ascites, except perhaps when the fluid is confined to the flanks, a thrill or wave-shock can be recognised with one hand, if a sharp tap or fillip is applied elsewhere with the other. If the abdominal wall is thin, and the tension of the fluid is slight, the wave can even be seen. On the other hand, the thrill may be indistinct when the abdominal wall is fat or oedematous, and when the fluid is confined at a great pressure. Finally, fliiid may be recognised by vaginal examination, less easily per rectum. Douglas's pouch is depressed, the uterus is pushed down, and in extreme cases the posterior wall of the vagina has been known to present at the vulva. Certain sources of error in the recognition of ascites are to be noted. Not imcommonly, even in cases of large effusion, a band of complete or modified resonance is present in one or both flanks. This is due to gaseous distension of the colon, and, in distinguishing between ascites and a large cystic tumour, it must be discounted. In acute peritonitis some quantity of fluid may be present, as shown by a thrill, and as proved by operation, yet the normal resonance is scarcely impaired. The fluid here is confined in the interstices between adherent and distended in- testine, and it has little tendency to gravitate towards the lower parts, or to shift on change of the patient's position. Finally, a feeble thrill is sometimes obtained in the absence of ascites, when there is great tympanites or when the abdominal wall is very fat. Unlike a true fluid thrill, this may be prevented by the pressure of the edge of a book or piece of cardboard between the tapping and the receiving hand. Ascitic fluid is said to be " encysted " when it is confined by adherent intestine, mesentery, or omentum. It is then difficult to detect, unless it be in considerable amount and in contact with the front abdominal wall. Such a collection may produce an unsynmietrical enlargement of the abdomen. It yields a fluid thrill and a dull note on percussion, but it closely resembles a cystic tumour in that the dull area does not shift on change of the patient's position. Distinction of Ascites from other Con- ditions.—(1) In the case of free fluid, the chief difficulty lies in distinguishing between ascites and a large thin-walled ovarian cyst. Abdo- minal examination alone may be insufficient to decide the question, but resonance in the flanks (with the reservation already mentioned), an unshifting character of the dulness, and any appearance of asymmetry of the abdomen (the distance between anterior superior spine and umbilicus being greater on one side than the other), or unequal resistance on palpation, are points to be looked for as indicating a cyst. Thrill, moreover, is seldom so distinct over a cyst as in ascites, and the greatest girth of the abdomen is usually below the umbilicus. When ascites coexists with an ovarian cyst, and when a cyst ruptures and discharges its contents, the difficulty is obviously increased. Vaginal ex- amination, however, will reveal the close connec- tion of a cyst with the uterus, which is commonly displaced to one side or to the front. Paracentesis should never be performed in such a case for the purpose of diagnosis, but the characters of ovarian fluid must be borne in mind. Some difficulty may arise in the case of general colloid carcinoma of the peritoneum. Here there may be considerable uniform enlargement of the abdomen, with complete dulness, but a true fluid thrill is feeble or absent. The distinction between ascites and obesity, oedema of the abdominal wall, and tympanites may be made from the physical signs already detailed. (2) In the case of encysted ascites there may be great room for doubt, and many cases can only be cleared up by surgical exploration. A distended bladder and a pregnant uterus may easily be excluded, if the possibility of their occurrence is remembered. A dilated stomach or gall-bladder and the conditions of hydro- nephrosis and pyonephrosis are usually easily recognised. A small ovarian cyst, and still more a parovarian cyst, may present great diffi- culty, and diagnosis must rest on the history of the case and on the result of a vaginal examina- tion. Very rarely a cyst of the urachus, freely fluctuant, lying in the middle line above the symphysis, has attained dimensions which might lead to error. A pancreatic cyst lies above the umbilicus, mainly in the middle line, but some- times more to one side than the other, having deep attachments, slightly movable, especially from above downwards, not moving with respira- tion. It may be impossible to distinguish it by physical signs from a collection of fluid in the lesser peritoneal sac. In many cases also exploration alone will serve to distinguish an encysted ascites from omental and mesenteric cysts, whether traiimatic, sanguineous, serous, chylous, dermoid, or hydatid.