111 ALOPECIA such cases to observe a certain degree of atrophy of the skin and the hair follicles, and on regions such as the scalp the latter may be almost com- pletely obliterated. Frequently also the general pigmentation of the skin is diminished. The prognosis in such cases is bad, the hair being re- covered even in favourable cases only in patches. A patchy variety of alopecia is occasionally, although very rarely, caused by injuries. The injuries (apart from actual destruction of the skin by burns, etc.) which have been noted as the pi'ecursors of this variety of baldness are such as have involved the nerves. The conse- (juent baldness appears in the distribution of the nerves presumed to be affected ; thus, a blow From a cricket ball on the left car was followed by severe neuritis and a bald patch in the left parietal region, injuries in the neck and in the neighbourhood of the carotid sheath have been succeeded by baldness in areas of the scalp corresponding to injured nerves. So also sufferers from neuralgia sometimes develop patciies of alopecia in the distribution of the affected nerves. Such cases as these support a certain amount of experimental evidence advanced hy Joseph and Mibelli, who attempted to produce baldness by excising portions of nerves. Under the name of alojyecia circumscripta a peculiar form of baldness has been mentioned, in which the loss of hair occurs in small patches, usually depressed l)elow the surface and with a certain amount of loss of sensatif)n. In such cases the hairs become loose and can be detached I'cadily; ti-ophic alterations of the nails, such as change in colour, tiiickening, deformity, and separation from their beds, are described, and there is no iippearance of the gradual atrophy <if the hair so characteristic of ti'ue alopecia areata. Alopecia areata in its true form is usually readily distinguishable from the above-mentioned varieties of baldness. It is this disease which gives rise to by far the larger number of cases of patchy baldness. According to Crocker's statistics it forms about 2 per cent of all forms of skin disease in England, I'O per cent in Scotland, and 3 per cent in France. Si/m2)toms.—The disease is usiiall^y noted when it has already jjroduced a small round or oval patch of baldness on the scalp. It is on account <if the absence of premonitory symptoms that the actual commencement of the first patch is usually not observed. The patch, as it usually comes under observation, consists of a surface of remarkably smooth bald skin usually on the scalp. Its edges are well defined, and while the central portion is perfectly smooth, <levoid of hair, and shows the mouths of the hair follicles often somewhat diminished in size, the margins of the patch show hairs in actual process of atrophy. These short hairs have a peculiar shape very characteristic of this disease. The siiape is that of a point of exclamation or a minute Indian clu)). This peculiar appearance is due to the fact that the hair is no longer being produced healthily from the papilla, so that tlie youngest portions nearest the scalp are thinner and often less pigmented than the oldei- portion at a slight distance from the scalp. In process of time the papilla I'efuses to produce a hair which can be projected from the follicle, and in this way the skin becomes bald. The patches of baldness become usually multiple, sometimes being quite numerous, but in nearly all cases the disease commences as a single patch. They may increase to one oi' two inches in diameter, and then are likely to coalesce with neighbouring patches, and in this way areas of baldness with serjaiginous outline are produced. In addition to tiie rounded areas usually formed, the disease occasionally has a linear distribution; a very cliaractcristic form of it is that commenc- ing at the periphery of the hairy scalp and encroaching upwards all round, at length pro- ducing a l)and of baldness round the head. The peculiarity of the physiognomy so produced by the loss of hair—a bare band above the ears and round the occipital and frontal regions—is very readily recognised. Alopecia areata need not aft'ect the scalp only. It is frequently found on the face, producing characteristic baldness of the beard or moustache, and may occur, though less commonly, elsewhere on the l)ody. J'he progress of the disease is very variable ; in some cases, perhaps the majority, a few patches only are produced. In other cases the disease may become so extensive as to produce almost complete baldness. In certain cases the bald- ness may last for a few weeks only; in other cases it may persist for months or even years, and the liair still be reproduced ; in still other cases the baldness produced is permanent. It is stated that if the baldness lasts for over two 3'ears the likelihood of recovery is but slight. At the height of the disease the appearance of the bald patch is very chai'acteristic. We observe the central perfectly smooth surface stippled over with the mouths of the hair follicles, which become smaller the longer the disease pei'sists. This central region appears in chronic cases to be slightly depressed below the surrounding surface, and seems less pigmented than normal, and in some cases appears to show slightly diminished sensibilitJ^ On the periphery the short point of exclamation hairs can be seen. As the patch enters on the stage of recovery the point of exclamation marks are no longer visible; over the affected area a growth of fine unpig- mented lanugo is observed. This fine hair gradually increases in strength and in pigmenta- tion till, in favourable cases, the hair becomes perfectly restored. Occasionally the first crop or even succeeding crops of lanugo may be shed, the perfect growth becoming established only after several attempts. In certain cases of the