276 AETEEIES, LIGATURE OF indicate the absolute necessity of the trans- peritoneal methods in which alone the vessels can be readily seen. The course of the common and external iliac ai'teries may be indicated with sufficient accuracy by a line drawn from a point half an inch below and half an inch to left of umbilicus to a point midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the sym- physis pubis. The uppermost two inches of this line correspond to the common iliac, the remainder to the external iliac artery. The Transperitoneal Method.—An incision four inches in length (in a thin patient one inch less) is made in the mid line of the abdomen, or better, in the corresponding semilunar line (outer margin of rectus abdominis muscle) com- mencing one inch above Poupart's ligament and directed upwards. The parietes and peritoneum having been divided, the small intestines are pushed aside, and the pulsations of the artery being readily felt, the peritoneum covering the vessel is incised and the artery cleaned. The aneurysm needle is to be passed from the vein. If the vessel be ligated just above its bifurca- tion, care must be exercised lest it be included in the ligature or otherwise injured. Retro-peritoneal Method. — In this operation the peritoneum is stripped up so as to ligate the artery without incising the peritoneal membrane. An incision about six inches in length com- mences one inch above the mid point of Poupart's ligament, and is curved upwards and outwards so as to lie one inch internal to the anterior superior iliac spine and to terminate one or two inches above this point. The parietes are divided down to the parietal peritoneum. This is then to be detached in an upward and for- ward direction from the iliac fossa. The ex- ternal iliac artery is now readily demonstrated, and by following this vessel upwards the com- mon iliac trunk is reached. The areolar tissue surrounding the artery is carefully separated and the aneurysm needle passed from the vein, i.e. on the left side from within outwards, on the right side from without inwards. The ureter is rarely in the way, as it almost invariably adheres to the peritoneum and is raised with it. This operation labours under the disadvantage of giving an insufficient view of the artery and vein, and is distinctly more dangerous and difficult than the trans- peritoneal ligature, which is always to be pre- ferred. Ligature of External Iliac Artery.—This is the largest artery which is commonly ligated by the surgeon, and, considering the magnitude of the vessel, the results of ligature of the external iliac artery are remarkably good. The vessel reaches from the bifurcation of the common iliac artery and extends outwards to Poupart's ligament. The course of the common and external iliac arteries is sufficiently indi- cated by a line drawn from a point half inch below and to left of umbilicus to a point mid- way between the anterior superior iliac spine and the symphysis pubis. The upper two inches of the line represents the common iliac artery, the remaining portion the external iliac artery. The artery is in its whole course retro- peritoneal, the corresponding vein lies upon the inner side of the ai-tery except that at the upper end of the right artery the vein lies behind its artery, and the genito-crural nerve on its outer side. Just above Poupart's ligament the genital branch of the last-named nerve, the deep circumflex iliac vein, and the spermatic artery cross the vessel. The chief indications for ligature of this artery are aneurysm in the groin and secondary hsemorrhage from the femoral artery. Operation. — An incision, four inches in length, commences half an inch above and just external to the centre of Poupart's ligament, and extends outwards and upwards to a point one inch internal to, and one inch above the level of the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The skin and fascial aponeurosis of the external oblique, internal oblique, and transversalis muscles are divided in the whole length of the wound. The fascia transversalis now comes into view, and is most carefully incised without injury to the peritoneum. The latter mem- brane is now separated by means of the fingers of the operator from the fascia iliaca and drawn upwards and inwards. The fingers can now feel the pulsation of the vessel which lies still covered by the fascia along the inner margin of the psoas muscle. The surgeon now opens the fascia over the artery one to one and a half inches above Poupart's ligament, isolates the vessel from its sheath, and passes the aneurysm needle from within outwards to avoid injury to the vein. The artery may also be tied by the trans- peritoneal method through an incision in the lower part of the semilunar line. See ligature of common iliac artery. This method enables the surgeon more certainly to avoid injury to the vein. In the extra-peritoneal operation the peritoneum is not infrequently opened in error. The artery may also be ligatured through an incision parallel with and just above the middle third of Poupart's ligament. This method is easy of performance, but the vessel is exposed and ligated very near the two branches, deep circumflex iliac and deep epigastric, upon which the collateral circulation depends. It is there- fore not to be recommended. Collateral circulation after ligature of the external iliac artery. The internal mammary, lower intercostal and lumbar arteries, anasto- mose with the deep epigastric artery; the lumbar and lumbar arteries, circumflex iliac, internal circumflex with obturator and sciatic ; external circumflex with gluteal perforating