ANGINA PECTORIS that be cannot expand his ciiest, and yet if he is told to take a deep breath he will probably take one with perfect ease and feel all the better for it. Duration.—These symptoms sometimes come on very suddenly, last only a short time, and pass away suddenly. In other cases they come on suddenly, last over a period varying from several minutes to two or three hours, and then they may pass away either suddenly or gradually. Nature of the Fain.—This is variously de- scribed by patients. Some compare it to a severe pressure, like a heavy weight or like an iron hand compressing the chest. Others com- plain of a feeling of distension from within as if the heart would burst. Others describe it as of a stabbing character. Site.—The site of the pain is usually over the sternum, sometimes at its lower and some- times at its upper part. At other times it is more to the left, nearer to the apex of the heart. Occasionally the pain as it passes ofl' may leave the left part of the chest, while it still remains to the right side of the sternum. Radiation.—In severe cases it almost invari- ably radiates to some extent, generally down the left arm, sometimes down the right, some- times down both, and sometimes to the shoulders and up the neck as well. Pulse.—The pulse during this condition is almost always small. Some observers have stated that it is unaltered in strength or rhythm, but this, although it may possibly occur sometimes, is not a usual condition. A sphygmographic tracing shows that the pulse is very small, and on feeling it one may observe that the pulse wave is very slight. Occasion- ally the pulse is slow, but generally it is quick, not infrequently it is hard and somewhat difficult to compress. Etiology.—Amongst the predisposing causes of angina pectoris may be mentioned age and sex. True angina occurs more commonly in men than in women, and almost always after middle life. In perfectly young people, how- ever, symptoms very nearly simulating those of true angiua may occur. Just as in a perfectly healthy girl there may be the symptoms of paralysis, so there may be in a healthy girl the symptoms of angina pectoris. Angina pectoris is conveniently divided into two classes, true angina or false, or pseudo- angina. The true is a very serious, often fatal disease; the false is generally recovered from completely. True angina is a disease which chiefly affects men at or above middle age. Pseudo-angina chiefly affects young women. Other predisposing causes of angina are syphilis, gout, and rheumatism. Sypliilis leads to endarteritis, and so tends to render the arteries thicker, more friable, and more liable to become blocked. Gout has a somewhat similar action, and tends, moreover, to affect the kidneys and give rise to a high arterial pressure. Rheumatism aft'ects the valves of the heart, and by the changes that it induces there it tends to block the coronary arteries. Distension of the stomach, either by food or flatulence, increases the tendency to angina on exertion, and may indeed bring on an attack apart from any exertion. The passage of flatus either upwards or downwards usually gives some relief, and sometimes very great relief. Social Position.—It is said by some to be rare in hospital patients as compared with those in better circumstances. It is certainlj' far from uncommon amongst hospital patients, but 1 think that angina micomplicated by any gross lesion of the heart or vessels is more common amongst the wealthy than the poor. This is what one would naturally expect, for atheroma naturally leads to gross lesions in persons who are subjected by their daily work to severe muscular exertion, and consequent strain of the heart and vessels. Amongst the wealthier classes, men of literary pursuits are said to be especially liable to it, and this too is natural, for such pursuits are usually connected with sedentary habits, and lack of exercise, sometimes combined M'ith free-living, naturally tends to cause degeneration of the heart and vessels. Emotions.—Worry and grief are certainly predisposing as well as exciting causes. Diseases.—Infective diseases, such as typhoid fever, erysipelas, and pneumonia, predispose to angina by weakening the heart, but the worst of all is certainly influenza, which appears to me to have a speciflc power of attacking the heart, and weakening it as much in four or five days as typhoid fever will do in three weeks. Certain poisons, and especially alcohol, tea, and tobacco, predispose to angina. This is what one might d priori predict in regard to the latter two substances, for theine or caffeine, which is the active princijile of tea, and nico- tine, which is the active principle of tobacco, both act on the heart and vessels, stimulating them to increased contraction, and thus tending to cause a rise in the blood-pressure, such as forms one of the most important factors in the production of angina. Fxcitin;/ Cat/.^ies.—The exciting cause of an attack is generally some call upon the heart for extra exertion, which is made either by some unwonted effort or by some unwonted emotion. The effort which most frequently brings on the attack is that of walking upiiill, and more especially when this is attempted shortly after a meal. Distension of the stomach or intestines by food or flatulence may also bring on an attack even without exertion. Violent emotions tend to bring it on also, but all emotions do not tend to bring it on in the same degree. The softer emotions, pleasure, affection, love, and so