ANEMIA 131 the blood-fomiiug apparatus, or that such primary diseases exist, Vnit no sufficient cause for them has yet been found or agreed upon. The cause of one aniemia, that due to Ijothrio- cephahis, whicli is chnically indistinguisliable from pernicious anasmia, has quite lately been dis- covered, and we may hope that other varieties will l>e separated off. It is in the meantime to be borne in mind that we are not justified in regard- ing any anajmia as primary unless we have first exhausted every known means of ascertaining that it is not secondary to some lesion of organs or other influence. Generally the history and symptoms will help us ; sometimes we can make the diagnosis only from the examination of the blood, and that is in any case the most important. CoNDri'iON OF THE Blood.—The state of the lilood in ])rimary anajmias is elsewhere descrilied (see "Chlorosis," "Pernicious Antemia"). In secondary anaemia the condition of the blood de- pends more on the degree of aiuemia than on its catise, and in order to understand the condition it is well to recall what happens after a large htemor- rhage. Many of the changes found in anaemia are really regenerative. As soon as a large quantity of blood is lost a call is at once made on the tissue- lymph and on the bone-maiTow ; on the former mainly for fluid, on the latter for corpuscles. The exact physical nature of this process we need not discuss. The Ijauph taken into the blood is more watery than the normal plasma, so that a condition of hydi'tcmia ensues, and this continues luitil the original volume of the blood is restored. It is a process of dilution, and until it is completed, a time which depends on the amount of blood lost, the proportional amount of red corpuscles and haemoglobin is diminished. Large numbers of leucocytes are taken into the blood, partly with the lymph and from the lymphatic apparatus, partly from the bone-marrow, and their number in the blood is greatly increased (see " Leucocytosis"). The available fully-formed red corpuscles, of which there is always a certain number in reserve in the bone-marrow, are di'awn into the blood, and the erythroblasts ai-e immediately stimulated to pro- liferation, and form new red corpuscles rapidly, which are at once forwarded into the general circulation. If the original loss of blood has been slight, the new corpuscles may be quite up to the normal standard, but generally they are small and contain a subnormal amount of haimo- globin. If the loss of blood is very great, the corpuscles may show the appearance of poikilo- cytosis—may be pear-shaped, oval, horseshoe- shaped, etc.—but even then the majority of them will be smaller than normal. The smallncss of the corpuscles is probabh' an endeavour to make up for their diminution in number hj presenting as large a respiratory surface as possible. As might be imagined, these corpuscles, formed in a hurry, are apt to degenerate rapidly, and we find that they often are polychromatophilic. that is, they tend to take up basic stains as well as acid ones. When the loss of blood has been extreme, tlie demand for red corpuscles is so great that some of the nucleated erythroblasts from the marrow appear in the blood, but these are practically always normoblasts, an evidence that the regeneration of the blood is proceeding on normal lines, V)ut more energetically than usual. Megalobiasts are rarely found. After the process of dilution is finished, by which the normal volume of the blood is re- stored, the number of red corpuscles rapidly increases, and more slowly the amount of hajmo- glo1)in, and the albuminous part of the plasma is replaced. In chronic luemorrhagic conditions the same sequence of events occurs, but the regenerative endeavours of the marrow are constantly dis- coiu'aged Ijy fresh hajmorrhage, the nutritive fluid supplied to the erythroblasts becomes poorer in quality, and regeneration is feebler and less complete. In secondary anaemias from other causes than hsemorrhage the same changes are found, vary- ing in amount according to the severity of the case. In mild cases there may be nothing more than a lessened percentage of hajmoglobin with small size of the red corpuscles, but a normal number of them. In more severe cases the red corpuscles show poikilocytosis as well, and their number is diminished. It is only in very severe cases that nucleated red corpuscles are foimd ; these are almost always normoblasts, except wliere the antcmia is due to intestinal parasites, when megalobiasts may appear, and may be more numerous than the normoblasts. The Diagnosis is readily made from an ex- amination of the blood (Hjemocytometer, Hfemo- globinometer, fresh and stained films), in con- junction with the state of the cardio-vascular and other systems. Having determined the existence of ana;mia, it is frequently more difti- cult to say whether it he primary or secondary in origin. For this purpose the functions of the various organs previously referred to must be in tiu-n cai'efuUy investigated. Any one of them may be at fault. Among the causal factors most freq^iently overlooked are tubercle and rheumatism in young subjects, and Bright's disease and malignant disease in later life. This will be ftirther referred to in articles "Chlorosis" and " Pernicious Anaemia." Much help can be got from the study of the leucocytes in individual cases (see " Leucocytosis "). Treatment.—It is of the first importance to recognise that secondary anaemia is a symptom, and that its treatment depends entirely upon the disease which causes it. Accuracy in diagnosis is essential to success in treatment. Ana?mia resulting from too small an amount of proteid food must be dealt with very difterently from that due to gastric ulcer or gastric cancer. Similarly with the anaemia induced by such