ASTHMA 315 wards, and is accompanied by a croupous exudation." Weber attributed the symptoms of asthma to tumefaction of the bronchial rnucous membrane from dilatation of the blood-vessels through vasa-motor nervous influence, and Sir Andrew Clark suggested that they are due to congestive swellings of the mucous membrane coming and going with greater or less ra])idity, and analo- gous to the condition of the skin in nettle-rash, the swelling subsiding after free secretion. He recognised, however, a nerve discharge as the cause of these congestive swellings, and he thought the contents of the bronchi might excite some contraction of the bronchial muscles, but not sufficient to account for an asthmatic paroxysm. It is not possible to give the arguments which have been adduced for and against the views thus set fortii. The theory that bronchial spasm is the chief cause of the phenomena of the asthmatic paroxysm has most evidence in its favour, and certainly has not been rendered untenable by the ai'guments used against it. It receives support from the nature of the remedies found to relieve asthma. Chloral- hydrate and morphia, which remove spasm, are markedly beneficial, and the nitrites and atro- pine are largely used to allay the paroxysms. Now the nitrites relax the contraction of in- voluntary muscular fil)re, and Koy, in describing the influence of stimulation of the vagus on the bronchial muscles, points out that atropine causes a complete paralysis of the constricting fibres or of their terminal apparatus in the bronchi, so that after a very small dose, stimula- tion of the peripheral end of the cut vagus, which has previously caused strong contraction, no longer has any effect. Whatever may be the seat of the changes which immediately give rise to an asthmatic attack, there can be little doubt that disturbed innervation is the chief factor in causing asthma. The occasional alternation of asthmatic attacks with epilepsy, some forms of insanity, and various neuroses, the induction of paroxysms by emotion, and the influence which hal)it and expectation have at times on their occurrence, seem to show that the disturbance may have a centi'ic cause. It seems clear, too, that in a very large numl)er of cases the peripheral nerves participate in or are the main seat of the disturbance. This is shown by the curative effect which has been known to follow the removal of a polypus from the nose, and by the cessation of attacks which has been recorded on relieving pressure upon the vagus. It seems very probable that the peripliery of the vagus in the bronchi is not infreijucntl}' the special seat of irritation. But the conditions found after death in a paroxysm seem to indicate that desquamation and other changes in the bronchi play a part, in some cases at least, in tlie pro- duction of dyspnoea. Asthma is commonly made worse by catarrh. At times the disturbed innervation renders areas susceptible to certain irritants only. Thus, asthma may be caused in one by the pollen of grass and not by smoke, whilst in another exactly the reverse may be the case. Probably in many cases there is disturbed innervation both general and local. It may be that the muscles of the bronchi themselves are at times unduly susceptible to reflex irritation, but of this there is no absolute proof. There can be little doubt that the altered condition of the bi'onchi has in many cases some share in causing the dyspncea. Asthma seems in some cases hereditary, and neurotic inheritance doubtless plays a part in predisposing to it; so does sex. Males are more liable to asthma than females. Childhood is the period at which it most frequently appears, but it may come on at any age. Gout and syphilis and other disorders have no doubt a predisposing influence, though the method in which they act is obscure. It woidd seem as if some morbid nutritional influences may expend their energies in producing at one time the peripheral disturb- ances essential for asthma, at another time in causing eczema or some other cutaneous affec- tion, for cases ai'e recorded in whicli asthma and such affections have appeai'ed alternately. Diagnosis. — It sometimes happens that paroxysmal attacks due to laryngeal changes are nustaken for asthmatic attacks, but the stridor and the inspiratory character of the dyspnoea, usually present in laryngeal affections, will, as a rule, suffice to prevent a mistake of this kind. Physical examination will distin- guish between hysterical attacks simulating asthma and the real ailment. Fibrinous bron- chitis will not present much difficulty, but the dyspnaic attack which accompanies the casting off of the bronchial casts in this ailment might lead to errors unless the sputum be examined. The diagnosis of asthma from paroxysmal ura^mic and cardiac dyspnoea is usually easily made. The gasping breathing, more or less periodic, occasionally seen in uricmia, can hardly be mis- taken for asthma. Very rarely, however, paroxysms of dyspnoea occur in chronic Bright's disease, which cannot be distinguished from genuine asthma, and probably own the same cause. In cardiac dyspnoea, which is due to the influence of a disordered circulation on the lungs and nervous system, the bi'eathing is more panting, and generally increased in fre- quency ; the expiration is not prolonged, and there is an absence of that want of correspond- ence between the efforts made to dilate the chest and the entrance of air which is characteristic of asthma. But in cardiac diseases doubtless true asthma is at times present in connection with the condition of the heart. It may be tiiat, as Kingscote suggests, an enlarged heart