323 ATROPHY atrophy resulting from defective nutrition from v'ithout, others occur when the defective nutri- tion is due to faulty metabolism within, one of the most striking examples of the latter being diabetes niellitus. The special form of general atrophy or marasmus seen in infants is described under " Atrophy, Infantile." Local Atrophy.—The immediate nutrition of any tissue depends on the following four factors :— (i.) The influence of the central nervous system (brain and cord). (ii.) The state of the circulation, including the condition of vessel wall and of vaso-motor tone. (iii.) Tlie condition of the blood. (iv.) " The trophic energy of the tissue." The last factor, being dependent on hereditary qualities, is a varying one in different individuals, and is of considerable importance, and it, in turn, is largely influenced by the condition of the general trophic system. Almost all cases of local atrophj' are due to a disordered state of one or other or all of these factors, and in the investigation of every case the examination should be conducted along these lines. By reference to them a diagnosis of the cause can, as a rule, be readily made. Thus we find atrophy of groups of muscles in progressive muscular atrophy, poliomyelitis anterior acuta, ti'ansverse myelitis and other similar lesions, due to the loss of the trophic influence of the cells in the anterior cornua. In peripheral neuritis we find an illustration of atrophy resulting largely from diminished func- tional activity of the nerve-fibres. The atrophic changes seen in the bones and soft structures of the joints in chronic lesions of the brain and spinal cord, e.g. hemiplegia, tabes, syringomyelia and other diseases, are striking illustrations of neuropathic atrophy, while the atrophy of the hair and skin in some cases of alopecia and the white atrophic patches seen in morphoea are illustrations in the cutaneous system. As examples of atrophy from disuse or diminished functional activity, we find the muscles of a limb after amputation, the disused part of the alimentary canal in cases of oi'ganic stricture, or after colectomy, the muscles in the neighbour- liood of joints affected with tuberculous or other chronic disease, the atrophied left ventricle in advanced cases of mitral stenosis, and the corpora ([uadrigemina after excision of the eye. In other instances we find atrophy due to pressure and interference with nutrition, as in chronic venous congestion of the liver and other glandular organs. It is also important to indi- cate the part plaja^d by inflammation in the development of atrophy in diff'erent organs and tissues. Thus we find atrophy of the liver-cells in cirrhosis and acute yellow atrophy ; in the kidney in chronic interstitial nephritis ; in the optic nerve, retina, and choi'oid as the result of acute or chronic changes; and in the nasal mucosa in atrophic rhinitis (ozoena). A few cases of local atrophy are met with which do not admit of a satisfactory exj^lanation, e.g. atrophy of the thyroid gland in myxoedema and the rarer atrophy of the suprarenal in a few recorded cases of Addison's disease. While atrophy from disuse or diminished functional activity is common, a similar condi- tion occasionally follows excessive stimulation with increased functional activity. Cases of this nature are seen in the nervous, muscular, and glandular systems, and as examples may be mentioned atrophy with degenerative changes in the cerebral cortex, atrophy of the biceps, deltoid, or other muscles, and a similar condition in the sexual organs. While the existence of a causal relationship between the over-stimulation and the atrophy is in most instances undoubted, the exact etiology is not so clear. It is probable that faulty chemistry in the tissues plays a very important part, the excessive stimulation leading to the imperfect removal of waste products, the accumulation of which, if maintained, leads to a permanent alteration in structure and function. Differentia} Diagnosis.—This in most cases is readily arrived at by the ordinary methods of examination available ; in the case of the internal organs it may or may not be possible. It is, however, of greater importance to deter- mine the significance and cause of the condition. Cases dependent on structural alterations in the nerve centres or fibres are more pronounced than those of a simpler origin. The causal factors referred to under local atrophy should be each in turn carefully investigated. In cases of local muscular atrophy great assistance in diagnosis may be derived from the use of the galvanic current. The presence and degree of the reactions of degeneration is a valuable gauge of the cause, and an important guide in prognosis of these cases. Principles of Treatment.—From a study of the various causes referred to in the production of general and local atropine, it will be seen that no general rules can be formulated for treatment. The cause of either must in each case be removed if possible, and the nutrition of the affected parts maintained by every possible means. This latter is effected by the use of measures which improve the state of the circulation, general or local, and by means which .improve the genei'al and local neuro- muscular tone. Among these, in cases of local atrophy, are massage, various physical exercises, and electricity; and here, as in cases of general atrophy, the judicious use of the natural remedies of light, air, and water (hydropathy) may prove of the greatest service. The value of these measures on local and general meta- bolism, and their possible influence on the higher centres in the brain, must always be borne in mind.