245 APPENDICITIS males than in females. Dr. Ueo. Armstrong lias collected ol7 eases—in three the sex was not mentioned, in the remaining T^H, 340 were males and 174 females ; 209 cases wei-e between the ages of twenty and thirty ; other observers have found this affection raoi'e common between ten and twenty years. The probable reason that males are more liaVile to this disease than females is that males are more subject to traumatism, for pei'sons who lift heavy weights ;ind undergo much muscular exertion are more subject to the disease. Heredity also has some influence, for it is not uncommon to see two, three, or even four cases in one family. Errors and indiscretions of diet are apt to induce an attack, and one freijuently is told by patients that the attack came on after eating a, hearty meal or something that disagreed with them. This is especially the case in the form known as "recurrent appendicitis." Osier states that he has seen a number of cases in boys who have gorged themselves with peanuts, a favourite diet with the juveniles in the United States. It is held by some that those who have a rheumatic diathesis are more liable to the disease, but such has not been my experience. The appendicular lymphoid tissue has been compared to that of the tonsil. Typhoid and tuberculous ulcerations of the appendix sometimes occur, and it is impossible to tell them from the ordinary inflammatory eases. Malignant disease may also involve this part of the bowel as well as any other, and may often extend from ileo-csecal cancer. The presence of fteces in the appendix is not uncommon, and these may fill the lumen so that on squeezing the process a mould of fajces exudes. Enteroliths and f;ecal concretions are very frequent; how these are formed is still uncertain, micro-organisms are sujjposed to have something to do with their occurrence ; they may look like date or cherry stones, beans, seeds, and fi'om this resemblance the supposition came that foreign bodies were frequentl^y en- trapped in the appendix. If these concretions be allowed to dry, they can be easily crushed between the thumb and forefinger. These cause erosions and ulcerations of the mucous mem- branes, and so allow micro-organisms to infect the deeper tissues and produce an acute inflam- matory condition leading ultimately to peritoneal involvement. Some say that the ajipendix, being a glandular organ like the tonsil, is liable to follicular infections, exudative and ulcerative. Geo. F. Still states that the appendix vermi- formis is a common habitat of the thread-worm in childhood, in fact he is strongly of opinion that it is the chief breeding-place for these worms. Their presence in the appendix causes a catarrhal condition with great swelling and thickening of the apyiendix, and very often there is severe pain which may simulate ordinary appendicitis. Foretyn. bodicg, sucii as apple pips and other fruit seeds, bristles, pins, small shot, bits of bone, etc., are occasionally found. In 120 cases collected by the writer, only one had a foreign body, though 37 had enteroliths. In 174 cases collected by Archibald, only one foreign body occurred, and in one-third there were concretions. Micro - Organisms.—All the usual micro- organisms found in the intestines are seen here, the most constant being the bacillus coli, a normal inhabitant of the intestines. But the streptococcus pyogenes, staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, the proteus and bacillus pyocyaneus are also found—of course the most virulent is the streptococcus pyogenes. No doubt at first all infection is mixed, and in the early stages of the disease the strepto- coccus has most to do with the production of the severe symptoms ; bacteriological examina- tion in all eai-ly stages will reveal the presence of both sti'eptococcus and bacillus coli; later the temperature will fall and the colon bacillus will alone survive. The colon bacillus is a normal inhabitant of the intestinal tract, and when a lesion of the mucosa occurs the organism gains entrance into the deeper tissues, and the more depressed the vitality of these tissues, the more virulently the bacilli act. They may spread by the lymphatic channels, by the blood itself, through the capil- laries by penetrating their walls, and so lead to general septic infection. Streptococci act more locally, but the colon bacillus infects more widely, sometimes leading to a pylephlebitis and abscess of liver or lung, etc. There is now no doubt that wlien the colon bacilli collect in a blind pouch like the appendix, which probably has a stenosed exit, they become very virulent and cause attacks of inflammation. Morbid Anatoiny.—Every case of appendi- citis is due to an infection from bacterial inva- sion of the tissiies of the tube. The mucosa becomes eroded from pressure of enteroliths or concretions, and entozoa have been known to produce erosions. There ma}' be an abrasion of the epithelial layer of the mucosa from violent muscular movements, sudden twisting of the appendix, or even direct violence. I have several times seen direct violence cause appendicitis, especially in those cases where a concretion existed. 1 saw one case in a child of ten years of age, wiiich followed on a blow from a playmate : in this instance there was a large concretion. I operated on a lady for appendicitis, on whom the severe attack followed a blow from the handle of a bicycle ; in this case there was no concretion. Anything which leads to an abrasion of the mucosa will tend to induce bacterial invasion and hence infection. The severity of an attack of appendicitis is often determined by the virulence and extent of the infection and the resisting powers of the individual.