494 BRAIN, TUMOURS OF or some complication; but in certain cases a marked degree of wasting that cannot be ascribed to any of these causes seems to depend directly on the tumour, or its effects on the brain. Bed-sores.—The presence or absence of bed- sores largely depends on the care that can be bestowed on the patients. Urine. — Polyuria, glycosuria, albuminuria, peptonuria, and phosphaturia all occur, though the last is alone common, while the other con- ditions have occasionally been met with, more especially in tumours of the fourth ventricle. Before ascribing any localising significance to such symptoms, the possibility of their being accidental accompaniments must be excluded. Diagnosis.—Three main questions have to be decided when a cerebral tumour is suspected: whether a tumour is present, the part of the brain in which it is situated, and its probable nature. The difficulty of solving these problems is inverse to the order in which they have been enumerated, for while it is generally possible to decide the first question, the second can much less frequently be determined, while a positive decision on the third is of necessity considerably more remote. The presence of headache, vomiting, andopticneuritismakes atumour highly probable, but they are not conclusive proof of its existence, in that abscess, meningitis, cerebritis, hydro- cephalus, anaemia, renal disease, lead poisoning, and certain other conditions may be attended by these three symptoms. Even if symptoms like convulsions and giddiness are present, we are left with possibilities other than tumour to account for the manifestations ; when, however, focal or localising symptoms are added to those of general significance, diagnosis is much facili- tated. The exclusion of BrigMs disease depends on the presence of casts as well as albumin in the urine, a high tension pulse, and hypertrophied heart. Examination of the fundi may further aid in the elucidation of the problem, but not necessarily so, in that retinal changes may occur with cerebral tumours which are closely similar to those seen in albuminuric retinitis, and papil- litis without retinitis sometimes occurs in Bright's disease. In profound ancsniia, especially in young girls, the general symptoms of cerebral tumour may be present, in which case diagnosis depends on the absence of focal symptoms, the severe degree of anaemia present, and the fact that under treatment with iron, combined with good food and rest in bed, all the manifestations in- cluding the optic neuritis disappear. In some of these cases hypermetropia is also present, and its correction by suitable glasses results in ces- sation of the headache even before the other symptoms yield to the treatment directed to the anaemia. Ignorance of the fact that hyper- metropia alone may give rise to changes in the discs resembling early papillitis may lead to an erroneous diagnosis of tumour; with suitable glasses, the headache and congestion of the discs disappear. More difficult than either of these groups of cases, however, is that in which young women with amenorrhoea, especially if there is little or no anaemia, present the general symp- toms of cerebral tumour; indeed it may be quite impossible to an-ive at a positive diagno- sis. The exclusion of lead poisoning is usually not difficult, in that the symptoms of cerebral origin are usually preceded by other symptoms of saturnism. The patient's occupation or habits, a past history of attacks of colic, the presence of the blue line on the gums, wrist drop, and so on, serve to make the nature of the case clear. Abscess.—In some cases of chronic encapsulated abscess it may be quite impossible to arrive at a correct diagnosis, but in general the following points have to be relied on for a differential diagnosis between abscess and tumour. It is of primary importance to exclude the causes of abscess, more especially the more common ones such as chronic disease of the ear and nose. Trauma while in favour of abscess can have no great weight, for, as we have said, blows to the head play an important, if obscure, part in the etiology of certain tumours of the brain. The mode of onset and progress of the symptoms may supply us with information, for while tumour usually develops slowly and pursues a uniformly progressive course, an abscess usually gives rise to serious cerebral symptoms which appear rapidly, and which may be followed by a latent period in which little or no manifestations are forthcoming. But, on the other hand, some abscesses are insidious from the onset, progress slowly, and never give rise to characteristic signs. In any case where diagnosis is in doubt, the sudden occurrence of symptoms pointing to wide- spread meningitis or sinus phlebitis is naturally strongly in favour of abscess. With encapsulated abscess without concomitant meningitis, head- ache is less severe than in tumour, so too optic neuritis is both more frequent and more severe in tumour than in abscess. The absence of pyrexia does not exclude abscess, for without concomitant meningitis or sinus phlebitis the temperature may not only be normal but even subnormal throughout the whole course of an abscess. The position of the lesion, if indicated, is of some value in diagnosis, for in the vast majority of cases abscesses are either in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe or cerebellum, so that where the symptoms point to some other region of the brain as the part affected, the probabilities are much in favour of tumour. The difficulty of distinguishing meningitis is proportional to the chronicity of the process, and more especially to the degree of its limita- tion. A localised syphilitic meningitis may give rise to symptoms which are indistinguishable from those that result from tumour; but the