22 ABDOMINAL TUMOURS, DIAGNOSIS OF The correct diagnosis of a tumour of the abdomen implies a knowledge (1) of its site— that is, the organ or structure from which it grows or of which it is a part; and (2) of its patho- logical nature. This knowledge is only acquired by a careful study of the clinical history and pathology of the various lesions that aft'ect the walls of the abdomen and its contents; it will be set forth in future articles dealing with these subjects. At present it must suffice to indicate some of the guiding lines which are of assistance in diagnosis and to group together some of the chief features presented by tumours involving special organs or tissues. A few points of general importance in connec- tion with the subject may first be noticed. In the first place, a tumour does not always pro- duce a localised swelling, it may be big enough to cause a general and uniform enlargement of the abdomen; this happens, for example, in some cases of ovarian cysts, retro-peritoneal growths, enlarged spleen, etc. In the second place, the situation of a tumour does not neces- sarily correspond to the normal position of the organ or tissue involved by it; thus a small hard mass below the left costal arch may be due to cancer of the pylorus, a cylindrical swelling in the left flank to an ileo-ca;cal intussusception, and a large tumour in the left lumbar and iliac regions to a uterine fibroid or ovarian tumour. Then, again, the possibility that an abdominal swelling is merely caused by an accumulation of faeces should always be considered ; hence it is necessary to thoroughly empty the bowels before coming to a conclusion with regard to any abdominal tumour. Similarly, in doubtfiil cases, the possibility of the tumour being due to a distended bladder must be borne in mind. Thirdly, the existence of pidsation must be investigated. An aneurysm of the abdominal aorta produces a more or less defined pulsating tumour which with each pulsation will separate the fingers applied to its sides. Its site is usually above and to the left of the umbilicus, but it may take up any position on the left side, and even rarely be present on the right side. Increased aortic pulsation is frequently met with in antemic subjects, but this is not ex- pansile, and lateral pulsation is not perceptible. It is a good practical rule to exclude aneurysm when the presence of expansile pulsation is doubtful. New growths often receive an im- pulse from the aorta, but they rarely present lateral pulsation ; and when the patient rests on his elbows and knees the tumour falls away from the aorta, and its pulsation ceases to be felt. Lastly, the influence of the respiratory move- ments requires consideration. Any tumour which is connected directly or indirectly with the diaphragm may be felt to rise and fall during inspiration and expiration. Thus tumours of the liver and spleen descend when a deep inspiration is taken, while tumours of the omen- tum and bowels are commonly uninfluenced by it. Ill taking a survey of some of the chief features of abdominal tumours it is convenient to consider first tumours affecting the abdominal parietes, and, secondly, tumours occurring within the abdominal cavity itself. Tumours of the Parietes.—These may be caused by an excessive deposit of fat, by abscesses, by muscvilar contractions, and by new growths. The last - mentioned are rare, and when present are usually secondary to a neoplasm within the abdomen ; thus a cancer- ous growth about the umbilicus occasionally occurs when there is cancer of the stomach or omentum. A tumour of the parietes is usually recognised by its superfcial position ; it is also more appar- ent when the patient raises himself from the bed without the assistance of his hands, and is more easily felt when he assumes the knee- elbow position. With regard to swellings caused by muscular contraction the possible coexistence of visceral disease must not be overlooked. The so-called "phantom tumours"—referred to in a previous article—which are sometimes associated with an abnormal deposit of fat in the abdominal wall or in the omentum are occasionally mei'ely mani- festations of hysteria, but very often they are of reflex origin and depend on some inflamma- tory process such as pelvic peritonitis or other internal disease. Hence it is of the highest importance in such cases to 7iiake a complete examination of both the pelvic and abdominal organs. Tumours arising within the Abdomen.— The Liver. — In health, although the liver stretches across the upper portion of the abdomen, its lower edge is but rarely palpable, and it may be laid down as a reliable rule in practice that when the lower edge can be dis- tinctly felt the organ is either displaced down- wards or enlarged. The characteristic features of a swelling due to or connected with the liver are—(1) that it occupies mainly the right hypochondriac and epigastric regions ; (2) that it may be felt to descend during a forcible inspiration ; and (3) that the dulness, which is usually obtained by percussing over it, is continuous with that obtained over the hepatic costal region. Leaving out of consideration the various kinds of simple enlargement, such as those produced by cirrhosis or fatty degeneration, the usual causes of a prominent mass or swelling are— cancer, abscess, syphilis, and hydatids. Abscesses or hydatid cysts often produce a tense, round, smooth swelling, which usually implicates the right lobe of the liver, but the whole organ may be greatly enlarged and extend