308 ASPIRATOE, USES OF This procedure is not devoid of risk from leakage of urine along the needle track, especially in enlarged, thickened, and fibrous bladders. It should not be repeated more than a few times. Abscesses in hoemophylic persons, or the large heematomata which often occur in such patients, and are so slow to disappear, are better treated by aspiration than by the knife. In the course of certain operations, such as those for abscess of the liver, bronchiectatic cavities in the lungs, cerebral abscess, etc., after the organ has been exposed by incision, the aspirator is often a valuable aid in deter- mining the exact situation of the cavity sought for. In another group of cases aspiration is often permissible, although not always advisable. In evipyoRmata, for example, although it sometimes is followed by cure, especially in children and in pysemic cases, success cannot be depended upon, and is more likely to follow incision and drainage. This is also true of pyemic col- lections in joints and subcutaneous tissue, as well as in cases of fcold abscess in connection with tuberculous disease in bone or lymphatic glands. In chronic hydrocephalus and spina-bifida the value of aspiration is more than doubtful. In all abdominal conditions, such as hydatids or abscess of the liver, suppuration in the gall- bladder, pancreatic, ovarian, and other cysts, mesenteric or pelvic abscess, gaseous distension of the intestine, as well as in hydro- and pyo- nephrosis, and in acute abscesses generally, it is inappropriate. Aspirin.—The acetic acid ester of salicylic acid (acidum acetylo-salicylicum). It has been used as a substitute for salicylate of soda, and it is said not to have the same depressing action on the heart or disturbing effect on digestion (being insoluble in the stomach but not in the intestine). It has also been employed in glyco- suria, eye diseases, coryza, and as an analgesic. Dose, 5 to 15 grains. Assa,Uit. See Medicine, Forensic (Wounds, Rape). Asses'iVIilk. <S'ee Infant Feeding; Milk {Physioloy leal). Assimilation. See Physiology {Food and Digestion). Assimilation-Pelvis.—A pelvis in which the fifth lumbar or first coccygeal vertebra takes on sacral characters. Association Mechanism.— The mechanism in the brain for the storing of im- pressions so that they may be associated with present sensations. See Physiology {Nervous System). Assurance, Life. See Life Insurance; Nephritis ; Syphilis ; Vital Statistics. Astasia-Abasia.—A peculiar nervous disease, in which, without loss of consciousness, the patient suddenly falls forward when walking or sitting; it is a disorganisation or suppression of the co-ordinated movements concerned in walking or standing upright, and is paralytic or ataxic. See Abasia ; Hysteria {Motor Dis- orders) ; Thyroid Gland, Medical. AsteatOSiS.—Deficiency of fat or sebum, hence xerodermia is classified as one of the asteatoses. See Ichthyosis. Aster. See Physiology {The Cell, Mitosis). Astereog'nOSiS. — Loss of power of recognising the nature of objects by touching and handling them (stereognosis); stereoagnosis. Asthenia.—A state of weakness or prone- ness to be affected by disease. See Addison's Disease ; Myasthenia Gravis ; etc. Asthenopia. Introductory. ..... 308 Refractive Asthenopia .... 309 Muscular Asthenopia .... 310 Neurasthenic Asthenopia . . .310 See also Amblyopia ; Hysteria ; Nose {Nasal Neuroses). Asthenopia literally means weak vision (from a-, cr^evo? = strength, and ai<^). The weakness, however, which is designated by the term asthenopia is not one of defective vision {vide Amblyopia), but a want of the power to sustain an effort of vision. A person who is asthenopic is unable to get the full use of his eyes, because any attempt at doing so is accompanied by more or less marked symptoms of intolerance. This limited power of sustaining an effort to see is almost exclusively noticeable in connection with the use of the eyes for near objects. It therefore, for instance, shows itself when attempts are made to read or sew. The complaints made by asthenopes vary very much in their nature. This is partly due in any particular case to the cause of the asthenopia. It is also due to the different way in which different individuals feel and describe their symptoms. Some observe a tired feeling in their eyes which after some time, without amounting to actual pain, becomes more or less intolerable. In others, again, reading or other near work causes pain. This pain may lie referred to the eyes themselves or to the region over the eyes. Sometimes it amounts to headache. Sometimes what is noticed is an indistinct- ness of objects looked at, which comes on after some little time—sooner or later according to