224 ANTIRABIC AntirabiC.—Preventive of hydrophobia or rabies, e.g. Pasteur's immunisation treatment. See Rabies. Antisepsis.—-The prevention or checking of septic diseases by the use of chemicals which destroy, or arrest tlie growth of, the germs of these diseases; the distinction between anti- sepsis and ASEPSIS {q.v.) is not always carefully observed {e.g. in the case of heat). Antisia.iOg'Og'UeS.—-Drugs which check or prevent the secretion of the saliva, e.g. bella- donna, hyoscyamus, opium. See Pharmacology ; Salivary Glands, Disorders of. Antispasmodics. — Antispasmodics (dvTt, against; (nrda/jLa, a spasm) are remedies which relieve or prevent spasm. The term " spasm," as used in medicine, is applied to muscular contraction which is in some way excessive, useless, or injurious. Muscular spasm may be general or local; it may affect voluntary muscle, or involuntary; it may be "tonic" or " clonic " in character ; it may be the result of a great variety of conditions, some of which are mentioned below. Enumeration.—Antispasmodic remedies, ac- cordingly, belong to many classes, and find their appropriate uses in quite different cases. Among the more important may be mentioned—opium, belladonna, stramonium, cannabis indica, conium, lobelia, alcohol, ether, chloroform, amyl-nitrite, nitrite of soda, and nitro-glycerine : the brom- ides, iodide of potassium, valerian, asafoetida, musk, castor, galbanum, camphor. Among adjuvants may be mentioned—^warm baths, steam, cold sponging, friction, exercise, and certain tonic remedies such as arsenic, phos- phorus, quinine, zinc. Action.—Muscular spasm may be due to loss of control of the higher nerve-centres, whose function is to keep the lower (spinal) nerve- centres and the local neuro-muscular mechanisms in subordination (paralysis with spasm); or to irritative lesions of the higher motor centres (Jacksonian epilepsy); or to increased activity of the lower nerve-centres, either from local (strychnine poisoning) or reflex irritation (spasm associated with phimosis); or of the local neuro- muscular structures; or to general causes, whether psychic (hysterical spasm), toxic (ursemic convulsions), or nutritional (the spas- modic affections associated with rickets). Thus some antispasmodics act by stimulating the higher nerve-centres, as alcohol and ether ; cam- phor stimulates the brain, the spinal cord, the circulation, and respiration; belladonna soothes the respiratory nerves, while stimulating the respiratory centre ; conium paralyses the motor nerves; the bromides depress the motor (reflex) centres in the spinal cord ; amyl-nitrite produces vascular dilatation by paralysing the muscular coat or the ends of the nerves. Valerian and asafoetida possibly owe tfieir esteem in part to the volatile oil they contain, and in part to the mental effect produced by their disagreeable taste and odour. Uses.—Belladonna is used in diseases of the respiratory organs for the relief of spasmodic asthma, spasmodic cough of all kinds, and especially of whooping-cough ; in diseases of the genito-urinary organs such as chordae, the nocturnal incontinence of children, painful spasm of the bladder in calculus, cystitis, or jJrostatitis, and for renal colic ; also locally for spasm of the sphincter ani. Stramonium is chiefly used for spasmodic diseases of the respiratory organs. Chloroform may be administered in ursemic or puerperal convulsions, tetanus, the status epilepticus, severe chorea, renal or hepatic colic, and in spasmodic asthma. The Nitrites are used chiefly for relaxing arterial spasm. Amyl-nitrite is used largely for angina pectoris associated with high tension; it may also be useful in some cases of infantile convulsions, and in epileissy it may abort a fit coming on. It is sometimes useful in asthma. Asafoetida, valerian, and their allies are used chiefly in hysterical conditions ; also as enemata in intestinal colic with flatulence. Iodide of Potassium produces great benefit in some cases of asthma, especially in those as- sociated with emphysema and chronic bronchitis. Antipyrin is useful in cases of pertussis, and has been recommended for epilepsy. The effect of heat is recognised in the popular use of a warm bath in infantile convulsions; of cold, in the beneficial effects of the cold douche in laryngismus stridulus. Tonic and dietetic treatment has to be con- sidered in most cases, as is strikingly shown by their effects in the treatment of the convulsive disorders associated with rickets—convulsions, head-nodding, laryngismus stridulus, and tetany. Antistreptococcic Serum. —An antitoxic serum used (as a hypodermic injection) in diseases due to streptococci. See Puerperium, Pathology {Septicmmia); Therapeutics, Serum Therapy. Antithyroidin. — A serum obtained from an animal (sheep) which has had the thyroid removed; opposed in its action to thyroid feeding. Antitoxins. — Substances antidotal to the toxins of such diseases as diphtheria and tetanus; they are produced naturally in the blood in the course of these diseases and can be transferred to other organisms {e.g. the human subject) and give protection against or ameliora- tion of the disease. See Diphtheria {Antitoxin Treatment); Drug Eruptions {Antitoxin Rashes); Immunity ; Physiology ; Pneumonia, Clinical {Ajititoxin Treatment); Tetanus {Treatment); Therapeutics, Serum Therapy.