BRAIN, TUMOUES OF 492 varieties of paralysis that occur ; bilateral paralysis involving either the two lower ex- tremities (paraplegia) or all four extremities in which the arms suffer more than the legs is rare. The latter variety of paralysis results when the tumour is situated in a part where the motor paths are in such close proximity as to allow of their being both interfered with by a single lesion, so that the pons and medulla supply such cases. It is also said that tumours of the cerebellum by pressing on the pyramids may cause this combination of paralysis; but I question the truth of this, excepting when a tumour of the cerebellum invades the pons or medulla secondarily. When a hemiplegia is present it may be of the ordinary type, or less commonly one or other of the crossed varieties may be met with, the latter depending on a lesion of the crus cerebri, pons, or it may be cerebellum. The paralysis resulting fi'om the presence of a cerebral tumour may be progres- sive and permanent; on the other hand, as has already been said, that which follows an epilepti- form attack is fleeting, but it sometimes happens that without such attack paresis occurs temporarily, probably as a result of some oedema or other vascular disturbance in the immediate vicinity of the tumour. Local- ised paralysis may, of course, result from pressure on, or involvement of, one or other of the motor cranial nerves. Cranial Nerves.—Few of the localising symp- toms supply more trustworthy evidence than affection of certain of the cranial nerves. Un- fortunately, however, there is scarcely one of them that is not liable to succumb to some general influence, possibly increase of intra- cranial pressure, so that faulty evidence of the seat of a tumour may be thus supplied. We are prepared for deleterious effects from general pressure in the case of a small nerve with a long intracranial course, but in that large nerves may also suffer, there is a possibility that a neuritis comparable to that which affects the optic nerves may prove to be the cause at least in some cases. Much as the affection of individual nerves is thus robbed of value as an aid in localisation, the affection of some of them in certain combinations is almost free from this drawback, especially combinations in which parts of the functions of some of the nerves are alone affected, in which case a central defect may be regarded as almost certain. Paralysis of the third nerve results from tumours in the region of the crus. The fonrth nerve is usually affected in combination with others, the growth as a rule involving the corpora quadrigemina. Least reliance can be placed on paralysis of the sixth nerve as a localising sign, as one or both nerves may be affected in tumours of very different situations; but they are specially apt to suffer when the growth is subtentorial. If all the nerves supplying the miisdes of one eye are para- lysed, the tumour must be in the region of the sella turcica, and sight is usually lost in the same eye. Paralysis of the external rectus of one eye, and of the internal rectus of the other, results from tumour of the pons, in which case the eyes cannot be tiirned towards the side of the lesion, and the facial nerve may be affected on the same side. The fifth nerve is involved by tumours in or outside of the pons, and in addition to paralysis in the distribution of its motor and sensory branches there may be loss of taste. Like the fifth, the facial is also para- lysed by tumours in or outside of the pons, in the former case in conjunction with the sixth, and in the latter with the eighth. The spinal accessory is paralysed by tinnours in the region of the medulla oblongata, and if the neck muscles are affected the growth must be outside the medulla. Paralysis of the hypoglossal re- sults from tumours in very much the same situation as those which affect the spinal acces- sory ; indeed the two nerves commonly suffer together. Sphincters.—It is exceptional for paralysis of the sphincters to occur as a result of a cerebral tumour. Most of the accidents which happen in which the patients pass their evacuations under them are to be explained by the amount of mental hebetude present; but, on the other hand, exceptional cases are met with in which there is loss of control over the sphincters which cannot be thus explained. Tumours of the pons and medulla disturb these functions in a more direct way than do tumours in other situations, though loss of control over the sphincters has been sufliciently frequently met with in frontal tumours to make the fact note- worthy. Sensory Disturbance.—Some form of subjective sensation, in the sphere of ordinary sensibility or in that of one of the special senses, may be the initial phenomenon of an epileptiform attack, in which case it is the sensory disturbance, and not the subsequent convulsion, which is of signi- ficance as regards localisation. A general blunt- ing of sensibility which is met with where there is much mental hebetude is to be attributed to this rather than to any involvement by the tumour of parts of the brain concerned with sensory processes. Hemianwsthesia occurs when the posterior part of the internal capsule is pressed on or invaded by a growth, in which case hemianopsia may be an accompaniment. Tumours of the gyrus fornicatus also cause a similar disturbance of common sensibility. Apart from such gross defects, slighter loss is especi- ally liable to occur when the sensorimotor cortex of the Rolandic region is involved. There is very slight blunting of sensibility to tactile impressions most marked in the parts in which there is most motor defect, in addition to which impressions that are perceived are erroneously localised. When the fifth nerve is involved,