223 ANTIPYRETICS AND ANTIPYRP:TIC MEASURES bolisin are increased in the urine after they luive been taken, and they may thus help to free the Vjody from such substances. Indeed, neutral sulphates have been recommended to be L;'iven as adjuvants with the view of facilitating the excretion of ethereal sidphates. Another point to be rememljered with regard to these drugs is the frequent intolerance exhiVnted by patients to one or other of them. They should never be prescribed save in small doses to any ]iatient whose reaction towards them is not known. Tlie Application of Cold.—Abstraction of heat from the l)ody by immersion in cold water (in a cold bath the temperature of the water is l)elow 70° Fahr.), by sponging, packing, apply- ing ice, or evaporating lotions, constitutes the most satisfactory method for the reduction of fever through increase of heat-loss. This sub- ject, however, is fully treated of in another place (Hydro-Therapeutics). A warm bath, it may be added, reduces fever by the succeeding dilatation of the skin, blood-vessels, and increase of perspiration. Increasing Excretion of Fluid.—All the drugs which increase the secretion of sweat or dilate surface arterioles facilitate heat-loss. Opium, for example, and to a less extent morphia, ipecacuanha, annn(inii, and potassii acetas, nicotina, and antimonial salts act upon the sweat centres of the spinal cord ; pilocarpina and alcohol proliably influence the nerve-endings in the sweat-cells; while a number cause dila- tation of the arterioles through the vaso-motor mechanism. Alcohol.—One of the most potent antipyretics which we possess is the much abused and decried substance alcohol. Little need be said about its powers. It is invaluable in influenza, useful in catarrh, and, as an evidence of its value, it may be added, one of the best antipyretics in the pyrexia of phthisis ; absolute rest in bed, fresh air, and cognac constitute all the measures taken by the physicians in more than one sanatorium for pulmonary disease against pyrexia, and with striking success. Alcohol is supposed to act as an antipyretic through its mild diaphoretic and diuretic properties, and by its retardation of metabolic processes. It also most probably has some stinuilating effect upon the nerve-centres, which may be transient, but can be renewed by small doses frequently repeated; inciting thereby a more vigorous supervision of body temperature on the part of the thermotaxic centre. Secondary Aniipj/retics.-—By this term all measures taken or drugs given to remove from the body any existing cause, generally local in character, are denoted. They are as truly anti]>yretic, strictly speaking, as the drugs which act through the nervous system. A purgative often lowers or aids in lowering a high tempera- ture by removing the primary or the accessory causes of pyrexia. Any measures adopted for the relief of tension, in an abscess or elsewhere, are antipyretic. Uses.—The invariable and routine exhibition of antipyretic drugs is not to be commended. The presence of fever is only a sign of the existence of a cause, and in many cases removal of the determining cause is better practice than forcible subdual of the fever till what time the evil subsides or proves fatal. Where the temperature of the body has risen owing to the presence of poisonous sultstances in the blood, it is only reasonable to strive to remove them by inducing their expidsion, in the sweat, urine, or fioces, or if due to localised foci, to free them ) >y the knife; not to endeavour to suppress natvu'e's method of resistance by lowering the temperature through artificial and central means. On the other hand, some antipyretic drugs act on the causal agents of pyrexia as well as upon the heat-regulating mechanism. So fever in influenza, ague, and acute rheuma- tism appears to abate after the exhibition of special remedies by reason of their action on the poisons causing these diseases, as well as by their influence on the thermic mechanism. As phenazonum (antipyrin) and many other members of the same group of antipj'retic drugs act as depressants of the great nerve-centres in the medulla, it is imperative upon physicians prescribing them to thoroughly grasp the dangers which may accompany their use for the purpose of subduing feverish conditions; still more is it unwise to allow the public to make trial of them indiscriminately without advice. It is well in considering the advisability of attempting to reduce the fever in any case to bear in mind that, tuiless the pyrexia is dangerously high and the causative agent itself not amenable to antipyretic drugs, one should seek to remove the cause rather than to forcibly subdue the fever. If the presence of fever apparently aggravates the condition of the pjitient, deal with it so as to cause the smallest amount of ill-eft'ect and disturbance to the primary disease. Never give full doses of the synthetic antipyretic remedies to patients who have never taken them before, and if the heart's action be even slightly impaired, combine with them some cardiac stimulant. [Recent practice, especially in hospitals, tends more and more to the neglect of antipyretic drugs in reducing temperature ; sponging down the temperature is frequently used, the process being stopped when the temperature has fallen by half the amovnit desired.] Antipyrin.—An antipyretic and analgesic drug (jj/iena:onc, C^-^R■^o'N.p), introduced in 1881, luid used in doses of from 5 to 20 grains. See Antipyretics : Drug Eruptions ; MoR- PHINOMANIA AND ALLIED DrUG HaBITS ; PUR- PURA ; Toxicology.