THE AXILLA 338 of the serratus magnus. Through a triangular opening at the apex, bounded by the upper edge of the scapula, the clavicle, and the first rib, pass downwards from the neck to the arm the cords of the brachial plexus and the axillary vessels. The latter are enclosed in a layer of fascia—the axillary sheath—which, following the course of the subclavian vessels, is continu- ous above with the prevertebral fascia and the posterior layer of the carotid sheath. The ^oor is formed by the extremely dense axillary fascia, which is continuous in front with the deep fascia covering the greater pectoral, internally with the fascia overlying the serratus magnus, and behind with the sheaths of the teres major and latissimus dorsi muscles. This floor of the axilla is held up by a fascial band which joins the axillary fascia near the border of the greater pectoral muscle, and which, extending between the brachial aponeurosis and the lesser pectoral which it invests, is contimious above with the costo - coracoid membrane. This, sometimes known as the suspensory ligament of the axilla, is of the greatest anatomical and surgical importance. The contents of the axilla, which lie embedded in its loose areolar and fatty tissue, and mainly related to its walls, are the axillary artery and vein and their branches; the cords of the brachial plexus which surround the artery in the lower two-thirds of its course j and the lymphatic trunks and their associated lymph-glands. The main vessels, with the nerve cords, run in the outer wall; and this is accordingly the place of greatest surgical danger, and the point to be as far as possible avoided in all operative pro- cedures. Important relations also exist between the branches of the axillary artery and the boundaries of the space. The thoracic axis and long thoracic are related to the anterior wall; the posterior circumflex and subscapular to the posterior wall; while the superior thoracic and anterior circumflex are in relation to the inner and outer walls respectively. Of highest surgical import is the distribution of the lymphatic glands. These form three groups — (a) the axillavT/, which, lying close to the vessels in the outer wall, receive the ascending lymphatics of the limb; (b) the pectoral, which run along the lower border of the lesser pectoral muscle close to the long thoracic artery, and receive the principal lymphatics of the mamma and the front of the chest; and (c) the subscapular, which, placed along the lower border of the subscapularis muscle, receive the lymphatics of the back. It must be remembered also, that some of the mammary lymphatics pass directly to the glands above the pectoralis minor in the apex of the axilla and under the clavicle, without joining the pectoral group (Stiles). II. Diseases op the Axilla Abnormalities of glandular secretion may be found, such as Chromidrosis and Bromidrosis (q.v.). Super'ficial Inflammations, ending in suppura- tion, not infrequently occur. They pi-esent the same features, and must be treated on the same principles as have been laid down elsewhere | {vide " Boils "). A special form of inflammation | affecting the sweat glands has been observed | here, as also about the scrotnm and anal margin, situations where glands are numerous and ' habitually active. Small abscesses, which can ! be felt as deep-lying nodules, form around the I sweat-coil, from the centre of which, and corre- I sponding to the duct, a hard fibrous cord runs I to the surface {tuberiform abscess, Velpeau). After healing, a funnel-shaped scar results, due to the cicatricial contraction of the new-formed tissue about the duct. True or deep axillary abscess, lying beneath the deep fascia, may be either acute or chronic. The acute form is almost invariably due to | glandular infection from some surface lesion, i and may afifect any of the groups of glands , according as the point of septic absorption is situated in the hand, arm, breast, thorax, or back. Staphylococci (S. aureus, albus, citreus) are found in large numbers in the pus, and the : disease is associated with the rapid burrowing j and breaking down of tissue, common to acute | septic processes. It is in this variety of abscess that the arrangement of the axillary fascia plays so important a part. The suspensory ligament practically divides the axilla into two compartments—one pectoral and one hvmei-al. ;| When suppuration occurs in the pectoral fossa, j its extension backwards is limited by this layer of fascia, and so the abscess lies beneath the pectoral j muscles, and tends to point either at the anterior margin of the axilla, or in the triangular cellular interspace between the clavicular origins of the pectoralis major and deltoid. But when the j humeral fossa is invaded the pus lies in intimate ' relation with the axillary sheath, and tends to \ pass upwards into the neck along this fascial ; plane, causing wide infection of tissues, and even finding its way, through the upper opening ' of the thorax, into the mediastina. When the j subscapular glands are involved the pus may ] burrow beneath the latissimus dorsi into the ■ subscapular fossa, whence it may travel long ' distances under the influence of gravitation. i Chronic abscess may be due to lymphadenitis, ; to necrosis of a rib, or of the scapula, or to the : extension of disease from the shoulder-joint. ' In the majority of these cases it will be found : to be tuberculous in origin, and to present the features common to these abscesses when occur- \ ring elsewhere. \ The treatment of acute abscess is of urgent importance. Prompt recognition of the con- j dition and immediate operative intervention alone promise favourable results, for here, as in the neck, no abscess can be opened too early. j .1