BRAIN, PHYSIOLOGY OF 471 round the pyramids of the upper medulla and enter the restiform body of the opposite side. This view still awaits confirmation. The vestibular root enters the medulla be- tween the restiform l)ody and the inferior root of tlie fifth nerve. On passing the latter, its fibres, previously a compact strand, separate somewhat, and divide into ascending and descending brandies. The latter form the inferior root, and can be traced as distinct bundles along the inner side of the restiform body as far as the cuneate nucleus, in whicli many of them appear to end. The ner\e ends in the inner vestibular nucleus (dorsal or inner auditory nucleus) and in the outer vestibidar nucleus. The latter has been subdivided into an upper (Bechterew's) nucleus, a middle (Deiters'), and an inferior nucleus. Of these the first is situated at the lateral angle of the fourth ventricle, the second opposite the point of separation of the entering nerve-tibres, and the third lies among the fibres of the inferior root itself. The inner vestibular nucleus lies internal to that first described, below the fourth ventricle, has a similar vertical extent, and presents on transverse section the appearance of a right-angled triangle with the ajjex at or near the raphe. The nucleus of Deiters is remarkable for the large size of its cells, which in this respect closely resemble those in the anterior cornua of the cord. Recent researches (Bruce, Held, Ferrier and Turner, Risien Russell, and Thomas) have shown that they form the starting-point for an important series of fibres which pass in various ways to the nuclei of the ocular nerves and to the cells in the anterior cornua of the cord. These fibres, so far as yet demonstrated, are as follow :— 1. A l>inidle which passes directly into the sixth nucleus of the same side. 2. One which, passing inwards under the fourth ventricle, enters the two posterior longitudinal fasci- culi. In this some fibres bend upwards and enter the two third nuclei, while others pass downwards within the cord and terminate in the anterior cornua of both sides of the cord (median vestibulo-spinal tract). 3. A large tract — tlie antei-o- lateral vestibulo-spinal tract—which passes oliliijuely inwards and down- wards through the formatio reticu- laris round the outer side of the inferior olive, and then into the antero-lateral columns of the cord, from which at varying heights they enter the anterior cornua. They have lieen traced as far as the lower dorsal region by Russell. 4. A bundle which enters the opposite median fillet. SAGITTAL FIBRES floor nucue:u5 NUCUE.US NERVE. 5EM1-CWCULAR CANALS COCHLEA Fio. 13.—Diagram indicating the connections of the nucleus of Deiters. On the one hand with the semicircular canals and middle lobe of the cerebellum, and on the other with tlie third and sixth nuclei, and with the anterior cornua of the spinal cord. The nucleus of Deiters also receives fi'om the opposite roof nucleus of the cereliellum an im- Vni TUBERC. ACU5TICUM INT. NUCU X DESCENDING ROOT NUCL. K. DORSAL •NUCL XII CORP aEST. ViG. li.—Diagram .■-howin origin of the liypoglos ner\'es. pharyngeal portant strand—the cerebello-^-estil;)ular tract— at one time supposed to be a root of the auditory nerve, then termed the direct sensorv cereljellar