144 ANAESTHETICS-CHLOROFORM titioner and most specialists prefer to ether and other rival agents. To them it has proved so indispensable that time and argument have failed to shake the favour with which they regard it, or the frequency with which they employ it. Even after using the others, as every one has some time or another done, they return to the former conviction that chloroform is the best anaesthetic for general purposes. And the reasons are not far to seek. 1. Pleasant Adviinistratimi.—Chloroform is, compared with ether, easy and pleasant in its administration. When given with care and properly handled, the worst that can be said of it in this respect is that it is unpleasant. It produces little or no choking, so that even children will often quietly submit to inhale it without resistance, and any resistance offered to it, if well given, is not due to the surface effects, but to the sensation of commencing mental confusion, throbbing in the head, and such-like feelings. But ether vapour is so irritating to the respiratory tract that it causes spasm of the glottis, and a sense of suffocation in all persons, and however administered. Even a person already under chloroform will choke and struggle violently if ether be substituted. 2. Small supply required.—A small quantity of chloroform is sufficient to produce anaesthesia, so that a medical practitioner, by carrying in his pocket a bottle containing four or six ounces, is in a position to antesthetise several persons in succession, or to meet the requirements of the most prolonged operation. And he is neither stupefied himself, nor does any odour of the drug cling to him for any time afterwards. But with ether it is otherwise; were he to trust to it, a supply of several pints of the drug would have to be carried with him to furnish him with a like power, and this quantity is out of the question in general practice, and, indeed, often elsewhere as well. For an hour or two after administering ether, some slight feeling of confusion is often experienced by the adminis- trator, while the odour that clings to his clothes and breath for a like period is unpleasantly suggestive to bystanders of intemperate habits. In childbed, so frequent in the general prac- titioner's daily work, ether is, even apart from the above consideration, an unsatisfactory nar- cotic, and this has also its influence on his selection. 3. Quiet AncEsthesia.—Chloroform very rarely produces an excitement which is unmanageable, so that, single-handed, a medical man can always control any degree of it that is usually met with. Ether, on the other hand, even when—which is not readily the case—its unpleasant vapour has come to be tolerated by the patient, usually tends to produce so much excitement that two or three assistants may be required to control it. Particularly in " alcoholics " the delirium it causes is very great. One has only to witness —particiilarly if he be the administrator—on one or two occasions, the choking, the struggling, the excitement and shouting of the patient, and to observe the consternation these produce in a private house, to comprehend why ether is no great favourite with the general practitioner, and to share his preference of chloroform. 4. Chloroform non-injlammahle, and less vola- tile.—Ether is inflammable, and its vapour is explosive at low temperatures, while you may with impunity drop a lighted match into a bottle of chlorofoi'm. And since a great number of the cases where anaesthesia has to be induced by the general practitioner occur in small rooms, at night, and in the vicinity of fires, lighted candles, lamps, or gas-jets, the properties of ether are not such as that it can, with a quiet mind, be administered under such conditions, while chloroform may. Ether rapidly volatilises if left in a loosely stoppered bottle, while chloroform passes into vapour so slowly at ordinary temperatures when in bulk, that a bottle of it may be left open for weeks in an ordinary room, and will not be found to have appreciably lessened in volume. 5. Ease of Administ^-ation. — Ether is so difficult to administer efficiently that it requires a good deal of skill and practice to angesthetise a patient with it. Chloroform, on the contrary, can be, and often is, given by a nurse when no other person is present to assist the practitioner (and in cases of child-birth this is a point of no small consequence), if the nurse be watchful while giving it, a thing easily done. , Means of Lessening the Disadvantages of Chloroform. — To diminish the dangers of chloroform many measures have been suggested. Two parts of it mixed with one of alcohol and I three of ether, forming the well-known A.C.E. mixture, was recommended in 1864 by a Com- mittee of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical | Societies, and is sometimes used. But it is i wanting in the advantages of chloroform men- I tioned above, and shares in the drawbacks of j ether; while, owing to the different boiling- ^ points of its ingredients, their vapours are not given off equally, and it is not possible to be aware of the proportion of chloroform that is being given, or to administer the drug evenly. Where we are dealing with a diseased heart, or where collapse or shock is present, chloro- forni may be given to nearly complete anaesthesia, and ether then substituted to continue the nar- cosis. This method is often very comforting in anxious surgical operations. The preliminary hypodermic administration of morphia, followed by chloroform anaesthesia, lessens the amount of the latter which is re- quired. But the narcosis produced is seldom so good and tranquil, the stages are not so well marked, and an overdose of chloroform is more readily given; so that, in delicate operations, such as abdominal sections, the writer has had \