ACTINIC BRONZING 50 Actinic Bronzing^. See Skin, Pig- mentary Affections of. Actinomycosis. Definition . . . . .50 General Description . . . .50 Affinities . . . . . .50 History . . ... . . .50 Synonymy . . . . .50 Clinical Features and Diagnosis . .51 Distribution of Lesions . . . .51 Actinomycotic Lesions— of Mouth and Pharynx . . .51 of Bone ...... 51 of the Tongue . . . . .51 of the Intestine . . . . .51 of the Liver . . . . .52 of the Lungs . . . . .52 of the Skin 52 of the Brain . . . . .52 Microscopical Characters op the Lesions 52 Characters of the Actinomyces . . 53 Habitat 53 Probable Sources of Infection . . 53 Experimental Actinomycosis . . .54 Treatment ...... 54 See also Appendix Vermiformis ; Expectora- tion ; Haemoptysis ; Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium ; Kidney, Surgical Affections of ; Lungs, Parasitic Affections of ; Mammary Gland, Diseases of ; Mouth, Injuries and Diseases of the Jaw ; Ovaries, Diseases of ; Peritoneum; Post-mortem Methods; awe?Urine, Bacteria in. Definition. — Actinomycosis is an infectious disease due to the penetration into the tissues of a vegetable pai'asite, the actinomyces or ray fungus. General Description.—It has a chronic, pro- gressive course which, when unchecked, tends to a fatal issue. Its symptoms are generally obscure, but not infrequently resemble those of chronic tuberculosis. It is characterised by the formation of granulomata, which, in man, usually take the form of multiple small abscesses sur- rounded by a considerable amount of granula- tion tissue. The tendency of these lesions is to invade neighbouring tissues in one or more directions ; the oldest parts of the lesions not infrequently heal by cicatrisation. Besides man, in whom the disease is comparatively rare, many omnivorous and herbivorous animals (especially cattle) are liable to actinomycosis. Tlie disease has been chiefly observed in the temperate zones; it is contagious, but as a rule infection appears to be conveyed by jjlants, and more specially by some of the gramineae. There is much evidence showing that the disease may be cvired by the administration of large doses of iodide of potassium. Allied Diseases (Affinities). — Actinomycosis has many pathological features in common with mycetoma (Madura foot), botryomycosis, tuber- cidosis, syphilis ; it has more distant affinities to Farcin de bceuf, glanders, and clironic pyaemia. According to a view, which has not been gener- ally accepted, mycetoma would be a variety of actinomycosis. History.—The disease was first duly recog- nised in cattle by Bollinger (1876); he sub- mitted the parasite to the botanist Harz, who named it the actinomyces or ray fungus (1878). Israel soon afterwards described the disease in man (1877), and in 1879 Ponfick showed the identity of the human and bovine disease. Jolnie (1880) was apparently the first to pi-ove that the disease was inoculable. In 1883 Israel succeeded in ti'ansmitting it from man to rabbit, and several years later Wolff and Israel succeeded in producing the disease by the intro- duction of pure cultures of the actinomyces into the peritoneal cavity of rabbits and guinea-pigs. In 1885 Bostrom cultivated successfidly the parasite, and gave reasons for believing that it belonged to the cladotrichse and not to the mould-fungi as Harz had been inclined to believe. In 1885 also Thomassen announced that actinomycosis could be cured by the adminis- tration of large doses of iodide of potassium. In England, Fleming (1882) was the first to attract attention to the existence of the disease in cattle, Mr. Knight Treves the first to describe a case of human actinomycosis (1884). Acland shortly after established fully the existence of the disease in the coimtry. Although of recent discovery, actinomycosis is not a new disease; as far back as 1826 Leblanc gave a good description of actinomy- cotic lesions of the jaw in cattle (under the name of osteosarcoma). Perroncito and Rivolta (1868) had even noticed the presence of the parasite in the same kind of lesion, and partly surmised its nature. Hahn in 1870 made similar observation in connection with the " wooden " tongue. With regard to human actinomycosis, Langen- beck in 1845 observed actinomyces granules in pus obtained from a case of vertebral caries; he, however, did not at the time realise the importance of that observation, and his case was published only in 1878 by Israel. The first case actually published was that recorded by Lebert in 1848 ; this observer showed and de- picted very accurately the actinomyces granules, which he found in pus coming from a thoracic aliscess, but he did not recognise their vegetable nature. Synonymy. — Actinomycotic lesions in man have undoubtedly been repeatedly taken for chronic abscesses, tumours, chronic tuberculous, or syphilitic lesions. In cattle analogous mistakes have been made, both in this country and abroad, for these lesions have been and are still frequently de-