BRAIN, SURGERY OF^ 516 it may usually be stopped by exposing the vessel with the trephine, and then plugging the sinus or applying a double ligature. Cerebral Tumours Chieiiy owing to advancementof our knowledge in regard to the localisation of function in the brain, and to the increased safety of surgical procedure due to Lister, great strides have been made of late years in the diagnosis and treatment of cerebral tumours. Still, it must be confessed that a great deal has yet to be done to clear up difficulties regard- ing the diagnosis, while the general consensus of opinion is that only from 5 to 10 per cent of cerebral tumours are amenable to surgical treatment. Tumours of the brain may be true neoplasms, may be tuberculous or syphilitic deposits, or may be due to parasites. Varieties of Cerebral Tumour.—Fibromata. —These are comparatively iincommon. They grow from the dura mater, are encapsulated and hard, slow in their growth, and their complete removal is followed by satisfactory results. Psammomata.— These also are rare. They grow from the pia mater of the brain and cord, and are epithelial in character, surrounded by connective tissue, hard in consistence, of slow growth, and frequently calcified. They may develop in the choroid plexus, aiid are often fovmd in the fourth ventricle, where they may give rise to serious pressure symptoms. Sarcomata are very common, especially in adults. They grow from the dura mater or in the brain substance. They are usually of comparatively rapid growth ; are encapsulated ; somewhat firm in consistence ; apt to be multiple, and may be secondary to sarcoma in other parts of the body. Gliomata are also common, though somewhat rarer than sarcomata. They grow from the neuroglia of the brain; are usually single; are of rapid growth; of soft consistence (much the same as the brain tissue itself); are not encap- sulated, but infiltrate the surrounding bi-ain tissue; are very vascular; and the result of their removal is, as might be expected, un- satisfactory. Glio - sarcomata. — Most gliomata contain numerous small round cells, and are in reality sarcomatous. Clinically glio-sarcomata may be considered practically identical with sarcomata. Carcinomata usually occur secondary to carcinoma in other parts of the body. They are soft, vascular, and unsatisfactory for surgical interference, not only because of the difficulty of their removal and malignancy, but on account of the original disease elsewhere. Primary carcinoma of the brain is rare. I'uherculous deposits, either in the form of infiltrations or definite nodules, are very common, especially m children. They are most frequently found in the cerebelhim or at the base of the brain; are usually multiple; are frequently accompanied by basal tuberculous meningitis; are usually of somewhat slow growth, but may become suddenly more urgent in their manifesta- tions ; are usually of firm consistence, but may soften at the centre. Occasionally they become quiescent, and may be partially absorbed, or shrivel up into a cicatricial mass, which by con- traction and dragging on the brain substance may cause epileptiform attacks. They are notably incidental to childhood and young adult life, and frequently a tuberculous history is obtainable. Sj/philitic guinmata are ^'ery common. They occur in adults ; are usually cortical and on the upper half of the brain ; they are often attached to the dura ; other syphilitic manifestations are often evident, and a history of syphilis can probably be obtained ; there is usually severe pain, especially at night, accompanied by loss of sleep; the use of iodide of potassium in large doses usually impi'oves the symptoms in a marked way, and completes the diagnosis. Parasitic tumovrs, usually in the form of cysts, occur more frequently in foreign countiies than in Britain. They may be due to hydatids, echinococcus, and other parasites. They push the brain aside, and do not as a rule cause marked focal symptoms. Other cystic tumours may be due to the degeneration of sarcomata or gliomata, or may result from localised haemorrhages in comiection with the brain or meninges. In rare cases actinomycosis attacks the brain {see " Actinomycosis "). The general and localising symptoms of intra- cranial tumour are described on p. 488 et seq. Treatment.—Before determining on operation it is necessary to diagnose as far as possible the situation and nature of the growth; to exclude cases which are inoperable because of the multiplicity of the growth, or because of similar growths in other parts of the body. It must be borne in mind that only some 7 per cent of all brain tumours are within reach of the sur- geon, and that it is not possiljle to diagnose with certainty whether a case is cortical, subcortical, or both combined. The ill-defined and infiltrating gliomata are most unsatisfactory; so much so, that some surgeons think it is not worth while removing them even when they are found. It would be of great value if one could diagnose a glioma from an encapsulated sarcoma, which latter is so much more favourable for ojjeration. Allen Starr believes that the changes brought about by the application of cold, temporary hypera^mias, and suchlike causes, in the symptoms of a vascular growth like a glioma, may enable the surgeon to diagnose it from an encapsulated sarcoma. Tuberculous tumours are very commonly