BLACKWATER FEVER 379 that the disease occurs in severe epidemics amoiif^st the natives of Ashanti. The chief predisposing cause to blackwator fever is debihty from jjrevions iUness. It is usually those who have suffered from summer- autumn infection, tertian fever or dysentery, that become the victims of blackwater fever. Plehn, Scott, Ritchie, Lynch, and many other observers have mentioned cases of the disease without antecedent malaria in rolmst individuals of recent arrival, but that previous debility pre- disposes to blackwater fever, as to beriberi and other diseases, is a well-established fact. It has been repeated by all those who have written on blackwater fever that Europeans are rarely attacked within the first year of residence on the African Coast, and this fact lias been emphasised by those who wanted to prove the theory that hasmogloljinuria was simply a feature of ordinary malaria in cachectics. We know now of cases which occurred very shortly after land- ing, but that the disease should usually attack new-comers several months after their landing is what might be expected, because it can only be contracted in the season and districts in which it is prevalent. Etiology.—At one time blackwater fever was considered one of the manifold manifestations of so-called " malaria." This opinion is not yet universally abandoned, but the writer believes that recent progress achieved in the study of tropical diseases conclusively indicates that this view is not to be entertained. A popular opinion in Sicily and Sardinia is that the disease is caused by the eating of fresh broad beans, because it is at the time of the ripening of faha vulgaris that the disease is rife. Professor Tomaselli of Catania, being aware that the clinical features of blackwater fever differed widely from those of the co-endemic malarial diseases, and having noticed that the adminis- ti'ation of quinine frequently aggravated the blackwater paroxysms, or seemed to provoke new relapses, argued that the disease was not malaria 2xr se, but a form of quinine poisoning- peculiar to malarial cachectics. In 1896, Bastianelli, while endorsing Toma- selli's old theory, stated that there was a hijemoglobinuria which could not be attributed to quinine, and which he believed to be a peculiar manifestation of intense festivo-autumnal infection. Tomaselli's theory was almost discarded, when Koch suddenly reinstated it by asserting, in the most emphatic manner, that blackwater fever was " nothing more nor less than quinine poisoning." As early as 1893 Dr. Patrick Manson, at a meeting of the Epidemiological Society, stated that he believed blackwater fever to be a disease sui generis. At the last Edinburgh meeting of the British Medical Association, and in a paper contributed to the Journal of Tropical Medicine, the writer endeavoured to prove that blackwater fever is a specific disease, clinically and probably also etiologically akin to Texas fever or redwater fever of cattle, and he likewise observed that paroxysmal hannoglobinuria and mfantile or ejyidemic hamoglobimiria are possibly other names for the same disease. Theories.—The theory that blackwater fever is due to some toxic substance contained in liroad beans need hardly be discussed. Faha vulgaris is eaten the world over, and it would therefore be difficult to undei'stand how it should give rise to disease only in some few places, and in such places only in a very small minority of those who feed upon it. Then again, this theory does not account for the great pre- valence of the disease in places in which this plant is not cultivated. It is, however, im- portant to note that this popular belief arose in countries greatly infected liy malarial diseases, and shows, therefore, that the natives consider lilackwater fever a distinct pathological entity. The theory of cold, in this as in many other diseases, arose from the chilly feelings which are experienced by the patient in the period of incubation, and the severe rigor which ushers in the attack. But these chills and rigors have nothing to do with the external temperature ; like those of pneumonia, relapsing fever, tertian fever, and pyaemia, they are connected with tlie active phases of their special parasites. With the advance of bacteriology, cold has lost all importance as an etiological factor. The idea that quinine is the cause of black- water fever arose in Sicily, where the disease is not very frequent. The P^nglish physicians who have had much exjaerience with the disease in intertropical Africa, are unanimous in protest- ing against it. Quinine never produces hajmo- globinuria, not even when administered in highly toxic doses. Tomaselli's theory of blackwater fever was founded on the fact that the administration of quinine aggravated the htemoglobinuric par- oxysms and provoked new relapses. Studying very carefully tiie literature of so-called " quinine iuemoglobinuria," we find the following to be the real facts. In regions in which blackwater fever is endemic, a patient may have siiffered repeated attacks of tertian fever, or of summer-autumn fever, which were satisfactorily treated with quinine. One day, suddenly, instead of an ordinary mala- rial paroxysm, blackwater fever manifests itself, and the continued administration of quinine seems, in some cases, to aggravate the disease, in others it appears to have a beneficial in- fl\ience. The first attack of blackwater fever being- well over, the administration of quinine may or may not be followed by a relapse, or the relapse