368 BELLADONNA the blocking of the pupil with exudation. By the mouth Belladonna is useful in treating excessive salivation. It is also given to regulate and increase peristaltic action, and for this pur- pose it should be combined with purgatives, as it increases their effect and prevents griping. It is administered in combination with opium in painful abdominal conditions, such as colic, appendicitis, and peritonitis. It is valuable in renal and biliary colic, where it is believed to relax muscular spasm and promote the passage of calculi in addition to relieving pain. It is very eifective in cases of cardiac pain of what- ever origin, for although it quickens the heart's action, it does not weaken the contractions, and may thus help in emptying an over-distended ventricle. The Tincture of Belladonna is an invaluable ingredient of cough mixtures for whooping-cough, bronchitis, and asthma. Bella- donna leaves are much used in cigarettes and smoking powders for asthma. The tincture in large doses acts like a charm in nocturnal incon- tinence in children due to vesical spasm. The suppository is very useful in painful conditions of the bladder, such as cystitis and calculus, and also in irritable states of the rectum. The alcoholic extract, gr. in pill at night, is recom- mended for the night sweats of phthisis. Re- cently the old custom of giving Atropine as a prophylactic before the administration of chloro- form has been revived, and there is much to be said in favour of its use for this purpose. Bell-Magrendie Law.—The fact that the motor fibres emerge from the spinal cord in the anterior roots, while the sensory fibres pass to it in the posterior roots. Bence-Jones Proteid.—The proteid discovered in 1848 by Bence-Jones (and named after him); it is excreted in the urine in cases of multiple myelomata of the bones, and has been found in pleuritic effusion; it resembles hetero-albumose; it is precipitated when nitric acid is added drop by drop to the urine, and the precipitate is redissolved on heating and reap- pears on cooling. See Bone, Diseases of {Mul- tiple Myeloma); Urine, Pathological Changes IN (Aliiuviosuria). Bengfer'S Food. See Infant Feeding {Proprietary Foods); and Invalid Feeding {Prepared Foods). Benigfn.—A mild form of a disease or morbid process; non-malignant. See Malaria {Benigji Tertiari Fever). Bonnet's Operation. See Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of ( Varicocele). Benzene. See Benzol ; Toxicology {Benzene); Trades, Dangerous {Inflammable Paints and Benzine). Benzoic Acid and the Ben- ZOateS. See also Analgesics and Anodynes ; Benzoinum ; Pharmacology ; Physiology {Fx- cretion, Hippuric Acid).—Benzoic Acid {Acidum Benzoicnm, C^HjCO. OH) is given off in fumes when benzoin is heated, and has the form of feathery plates or needles. It is a monobasic aromatic acid ; and it is given in doses of 5 to 15 grains. The oliicial preparations are the Trochiscus Acidi Benzoici; the Tinctura Cam- phorcB Composita, and the Tinctura Opii Ammoniata (both the tinctures contain opium, q.v.). The Benzoate op Ammonium {Ammonii Benzoas) in doses of from 5 to 15 grains, and the Benzoate of Sodium {Sodii Benzoas) in doses of from 5 to 30 grains, may be used instead of benzoic acid ; they are more soluble, especially the latter. Benzoic acid, given by the mouth, is changed into hippuric acid in the kidneys, and appears as such in the urine, rendering it acid (if it has previously been alkaline). It acts as a urinary disinfectant, as a weak diuretic, as an expectorant, and as an antipyretic. The benzoates also act as chol- agogues and antipyretics. Externally, benzoic acid is an antiseptic and a cutaneous stimulant; it is accordingly used in the treatment of various skin diseases and of wounds. Its internal use is indicated in pyelitis and cystitis, in bronchitis, phthisis, and laryngitis. Benzoinum.—Benzoin or Gum Ben- jamin is an almost tasteless brittle resin, with a balsamic odour, obtained from Styrax benzoin. It contains benzoic acid (given off from it in the form of fumes when it is heated), cinnamic acid, resins, and a volatile oil. Its preparations are : (1) Adeps Benzoatus or Benzoated Lard (contained in several official ointments); and (2) Tinctura Benzoini Compjosita or Friar's Balsam (dose, J to 1 fl. dr.). Benzoin is an antiseptic, and is inhaled in pulmonary complaints. Friar's Balsam has been used as an application to cracked nipples, bed-sores, ulcers, and the like. See also Benzoic Acid. Benzol. See also Toxicology {Benzene), and Trades, Dangerous {Benzine).—Benzol (in the British Pharmacopoeia) signifies a mixture of benzene (0^11^) and toluene (CgH^, CHg) and other hydrocarbons; it is a colourless liquid, with a strong odour, readily volatile and inflammable, derived from coal tar. It acts as a solvent of caoutchouc, resins, phosphorus, sidphur, etc., and is used in the making of the official Liquor Caoutchouc and Charta Sinapis. It is used to destroy parasites (pediculi) on the scalp and body. Benzene (C^-H,,) is the first of a long series of products (the " aromatic series "), and from it come the alkaloids by a process of sub- stitution of various radicles for one or more of the Hydrogen atoms {see Alkaloids). Benzoyl is the hypothetical radicle, CgH^. CO, of benzoic acid. Of many compounds the following may