342 BALNEOLOGY in. The Different Kinds op Baths AND THEIR ACTIONS . . . 346 L Indifferent Thermal and Sub- thermal Baths . . ■ 346 2. Douche Baths . . . .347 3. Peat and Mud Baths . . 348 4. Vapour Baths .... 348 5. Hot - Air Baths (General and Local) 349 6. Miiriated [Brine) and Marine Baths 349 7. Gaseous Muriated Baths . . 350 8. Sulphur Baths .... 350 9. Pine Baths . . . .350 10. Sand Baths . . . .350 11. Solar and Padiation Baths . 350 IV. General Balneo-Therapeutics . 350 1. Skin Affections . . .351 2. Affections of the Cardio- Vasctdar System . . . . .351 3. Disorders of Nutrition and Elimination . . . .351 4. Disorders of the Nervous System 352 5. Results of Injiammation . . 353 Some Rules of Spa Practice . 353 V. Summary of the Principal Baths and Waters . . . .354 Definition.—Balneology is the science dealing with the nature and uses of the various forms both of baths and of mineral springs, the name thus including more than its deriva- tion (from balneum, a bath) appears to imply. Balneo-therapeutics embrace the divers manners of treatment by means of mineral waters and baths at the vai'ious spas. In practice the use of baths and waters cannot be dissociated from the other curative influences of the Health Resort, and must be considered as necessarily connected with them. Among the subsidiary factors of spa treatment are included climate, exercise, change both in diet and manner of life, and a variable psychical or personal factor. These all may modify or participate in the proper effects of baths. Even the special procedures and skill of the bath attendants, in regard to which different spas have their own traditions, are not without im- portance. These local circumstances may there- fore well be considered in the choice of a resort, for as much may depend upon them as on the particular bath employed. When all contributory and secondary factors of the environ- ment are well adapted to the case in hand, balneo-therapeutics find their most favourable opportunity. The actions and uses of mineral waters taken internally are elsewhere described (vide "Mineral Waters "). Their effects and those of external applications often powerfully reinforce one another, and hence waters and baths are commonly employed simultaneously at many of the spas. Another bahieary procedure that properly falls within the above definition is known as Hydropathy. The external use of water has under this name undergone, during the present century, a complete specialisation, and hydropathic treatment is now in practice, in this country, quite distinct from balneo- therapeutics. The present article is concerned with the action and uses of baths in chronic disease, as met with at the health resorts. The use of certain baths in acute disease belongs to another department of medicine. I. Historical The use of heat in baths dates from a very early time, and probably arose with the Aryan race in the warm climates of Asia. Similar procedures were no doubt independently em- ployed by widely separated peoples. The history of the more common forms of bath, whether used as a luxury or for medical purposes, is not without interest. It illustrates the connection of special forms of bath with particular climates, and their influence not only on the healthy subject, but even on national character and destiny. HoT-AiR Bath.—The Greeks appear to have been the first to employ baths of dry heated air. The hot chamber of the Lacedaemonians was the primitive pattern on which the later baths were founded. A sweating process was followed by frictions and aspersions of warm water. Thermal baths of water or watery vapour or heated air came to be much used as luxuries by the Greeks and Asiatics. Xenophon, describing the effeminate manners of the Persians, calls them Balneatores. The Romans of the Republic used only cold river and swim- ming baths, but introduced warm baths after they became acquainted with the Greeks. The patricians first adopted tlie hot-air chamber, called after its birthplace, Laconicum, and in- troduced it with various appurtenances into their own houses. Later on the State provided similar baths for the citizens at a nominal charge, and imposed upon the Ediles their oversight, and especially the regulation of temperature. These again were followed by the Thermos of Imperial Rome. Their remains, still extant, show them to have been the most extensive and splendid public baths on record. In the Therma given to the people by the Emperor Caracalla two thousand persons might bathe at once. It was characteristic of the Romans that they combined physical training and exercise with the bath, and provided for both in the same building. The bather first entered the frigidarium or apopterygium, a chamber for undressing and where frictions were sometimes applied to the skin. Thence he went on to the tepndarium, where he stayed until the pores were gently opened ; next to one or more hot chambers,—calidarium,— laconicum, heated by a furnace, hypocaustum,