■92 ALCOHOLIC INSANITY the title to those states which have been in- duced by alcohoUc excess, and which have the features characteristic of alcoholic disease. Alcoholic insanity is a cortical disease in which the lesion \vhich determines the insanity is superimposed upon that of alcoholism. (Just as climacteric or puerperal insanity has a lesion which is added to climacteric or puerperal processes.) Etiology.—The etiology of alcoholic insanity is very obvious. It is the etiology of insanity plus that of alcoholism. In other words, the disease occurs in persons who are predisposed to the neuroses, and who have drunk to excess. The most usual age for its development is somewhere between twenty-five and thirty-five, when there has been time for the excess of alcohol to have its proper effect, and when the brain is occupied with the complex affairs of mature life. Alcohol specially affects recent cortical structure. After that age the danger continues if the causes persist, and becomes aggravated as the climacteric approaches. A good many cases of senile alcoholic insanity are missed. These are cases in which there may have been no great recent excess, but in which the senile processes reveal an alcoholic injury of long standing. As regards the influence of sex, the truth probably is that female cases are fewer because female drunkards are fewer; but that, given the alcoholism, women are more likely to become insane than men. Not in- frequently the attack is precipitated by an acute exciting cause—a domestic, financial, or social crisis, bodily illness, injury to the head, or a great debauch. Clinical Types.—1. Cases characterised by a disproportionate impairment of will.—In the article " Alcoholism " it will be seen how great an importance we must attach to the reduction of the patient's powers of self-control in drunken- ness. The physician must I'egard the inability of the patient to refuse alcohol as a part—and the most important pait—of the disease. But at present that is not held to constitute an insanity. The cases in which there occurs an overwhelming desire for alcohol, such as occurs in dipsomania, should be held to manifest an abnormal hypertrophy and perversion of appe- tite. But the cases to which reference is now made are different. The most usual are those which manifest an insane indolence accompanied with insane impulsiveness. A man of business, not affluent, had been drinking steadily to excess for years, without showing any great and general mental impair- ment. Then, unexpectedly, he ceased all work for a fortnight; lay in bed most of the day complaining of ill sorts; rose in the evenings, and often went out in the dark hours. He was not now drinking heavily. At the end of the fortnight he returned to work, but was so care- less and unpunctual that he was dismissed. Indifference, however, was still his prevailing state of mind, and even the prospect of poverty did not stir him. One Sunday forenoon, con- trary to his habit, he went to church. Towards the end of the service he rose in his place, and with loud voice and in a torrent of language he denounced the clergyman as a Papist. There- after he was sent to an asylum. Still he showed little moi'e than extreme loss of in- terest ; he had no gross delusions, suffered no melancholia, was not excited or incoherent, but occasionally cursed, or sang, or threw things about very like an epileptic. There were no convulsions. Tremors were fairly well marked, but no pronounced loss of power was manifest. He complained of tingling and prickling in his lower limbs. The knee-jerks were almost gone. No other positive symptoms of importance were discovered, and the case recovered after a time without further developments. In a similar case, that of a lady, there was the same indolence, retirement from society, and disregard of social obligations. She lived most of the time in bed or in her back-green. Then she disappeared, and the first news of her was a telegram from Ostend asking for money and for luggage. In other cases the defect of will takes the form of Folie du Doute, an insane dubiety over details, and childish scruples about unimportant trifles. That is usually associated with depres- sion, and again impulsiveness is a feature. In still other cases, while there is no obvious defect of will as regards the common affairs of life, the patient is tormented with insane promptings— ridiculous, extravagant, or dangerous. The patient's fear that some day he will not be able to hold out against these impulses is not ill- grounded. But the worst cases are those in which, without any admission of such prompt- ings, and perhaps without any warning to himself, the patient suddenly plays the public clown, steals, rapes, murders, or commits suicide. This tendency should always be borne in mind in alcoholic cases. Anything may happen until the patient is safely recovered, or demented, or dead. 2. Cases characterised by conspicuous defect of memory.—We have a patient now in whom there is no other obvious defect of mind, but who re- members nothing. His is a defect of retention. His memory cannot be educated because his brain apparently does not hold any images even for a minute. He plays draughts well, but if you take him from the board and set him down again immediately, having turned the table, he will play his opponent's game and not know that he has changed pieces. He curls well for a beginner, but he can never remember when it is his turn to play, whose side he is on, or which are his stones. He has been for many months in the asylum, but he does not know the name of the house, nor can he with assurance designate