ARTIFICIAL LIMBS 283 but little from tliut used after amputation through the leg. The extension of the knee is Itrought about by an elastic mechanism attached to the front of the thigh above, and to the artificial leg below, whilst the flexion of the joint in walking is brought about by the weight of the body. Both these forms of apparatus are secured to the body by a girdle or by a suspender passing over the opposite shoulder. There is a general tendency to make these limbs too heavy, but it is possible to make the most elaborate apparatus, so that it does not weigh more than four pounds, and is both strong and rigid. The measurements required are : round the stump as high as possible, as well as round its middle and end ; the length of the stump and the distance from the end of the stump to Fig. 1. _ _ _ the ground when the patient is standing up ; the circumference of the sound limb at the knee, below the knee, round the calf, below the calf, and over the ankle at the instep; the length from the knee-joint to the ground. An outline of the sound foot and a boot should also be sent, and it should be stated whether the stump is on the right or the left side. The cost varies from thirty to fifteen pounds, but it lUciy be lessened by doing away with the ankle- joint and sul)stituting a pin for the foot, as in Fig. 2. ^ ^ The service or " bucket leg " (Fig. 6) consists of a wooden sheath or bucket which receives tlie stump of the thigh, and into the lower end of which is fitted a "pin" upon which the patient walks. The pin is made of two parts, the one sliding within the other, and its long- axis is directed a little outwards and backwards for greater ease in walking. The disadvantage caused by the pin projecting when the wearer sits, may be overcome by jointing it at the level of the knee, the joint being fix or released by a spring catch. A bucket leg costs from eight guineas to one pound. It should be borne in inind that if a patient is going to wear an artificial leg he should not be allowed to learn to walk on a pin leg, as the method of pro- gression in the two appliances is radically difterent. The "Anglesea " leg is a wooden leg with hinge joints at the knee and ankle, the joints being brought into action by a long piece of catgut fixed at the back of the heel and ending at the knee. The catgut represents the flexor muscles of the knee and the extensors of the foot, whilst an indiarubber band fixed in front of the ankle and attached to a piece of wood in the centre of the calf counteracts the catgut cord and flexes the foot upon the leg. An india- rubber band is also fixed in front of the upper part of the leg to aid in impelling its lower portion forwards whilst walking. The Palmer leg resembles the Anglesea leg, but tlie solid part of the leg- is placed in a hollow portion of the foot, so that the limb looks neater, but is less strong. The Ely "leg is characterised by a ball and socket ankle - joint, with an arrangement of rubber springs and catgut cords to represent the Fig. 6. more important muscles and ten- Thc knee-joint also contains a mechanism representing the crucial ligaments, which lessens the shock conveyed to the stump in the act of walking. Upper Limb. — The rules which apply to amputations of the leg by no means hold good for the arm. The mechanism of the artificial arm is of a prehensible character, and every care must be taken therefore to save as much of the natural limb as possible—in the hand, that the power of grasping may be retained, in the forearm to obtain pronation and supination, and in the arm to ensure flexion and extension as well as the rotatory movements of the shoulder. Fingers.—A distal phalanx can be replaced if necessary, by an apparatus fixed on like a thimble. All the fingers can be replaced by artificial fingers moulded on a cast modelled to fit the stump of the hand, the apparatus being- laced over the wrist and concealed by a glove. AVhen only a single finger has been removed at the metacarpo-phalangeal joint the deformity is usually so slight that it passes unnoticed, and no special apparatus is needed. Hand. — When the w-hole hand has been amputated just above the wrist, an artificial dons of the le'