BONE, DISEASES OF 455 sterimiu, and vertebric, of multiple foci of a vascular cellular tissue or new growth, leading to absorption of the framework of the bone, and rendering it liable to spontaneous fracture. The external appearances of the bones are not altered; there is an absence of anything cap- able of being recognised as a tumour. Tliis condition will be further referred to in the consideration of albinnosuria under the dis- orders of the urine. BonC-Gra.fting'. See Bone, Diseases nv (Necros/'x, Tredtmtiit). Bone-Marrow. See An.emia, Pkh- Nicious ; Lbucocytosk ; Py/UMIA. BonitO. Si'e Sn'ake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes. BOOphiiUS BoviS.—A species of Tick. See Parasites {Nctmo-^poridia). Boots. See Deformities {HalJvx VaJepix, Hammer-Toe). Borax. See Boric Acid. Borboryg'muS.—The movement of in- testinal Hatus accdinpanied by a rumliling noise. Bordig^hera. .SVe Therapeutics, Health Resoh'I's (liiviera). Boric Acid. See also Dressings ; Drug Eruptions ; Food (Preservatives); Milk {Adul- teration, Preservatives) ; Skin, Pigmentary Affections of {Hair) ; Toxicology {Non- Metallic Elements).—Acidum Boricum or Boracic Acid exists in the form of coloiu'less crystals, and finds its chief sphere of usefulness as an external application or as a mouth wash or irrigating fluid wiien its antiseptic pro- perties become very evident. Its preparations are: Glycerinnm Acidi Borici; TJnguentmn Acidi Borici ; and Borax. The last- named substance is Sodium Biborate; and it is employed in the well - known preparations, Glycerinnm Boracis and Mel Bo7-acis (Honey of Borax). On account of their disinfectant and antiseptic effects both boric acid and borax are largely used in the treatment of wounds, ulcers, and inflamed surfaces (ophthalmia, ozsena, otorrhoja, stomatitis, vaginitis, etc.), in the form of boracic lint and cotton wool, boric acid oint- ment, boracic lotion, and of the glycerine and honey of borax. Boric acid is also used as ;i food preservative, especially for milk and meat; poisoning has thus been occasioned (.see Toxi- cology). Borax may be given internally (in doses of from 5 to 20 grains) in cystitis, typhoid fever, and epilepsy, but its value is not well established. BormiO. See Balneology {Italy) : Mineral Waters {Tltermal). Bornyvai. — Tlie isovalerianic ester of borneol (Borneo camphor) ; it has been recom- mended for various nervous disorders, including specially those of menstruation and the meno- pause. Boro-Glyceride.—A non-official pre- paration of glycerine and boric acid ; it forms a pasty mass, but is readily soluble; and it is a convenient form in which the antiseptic pro- perties of boric acid may be utilised. BOSSi'S Dilator.—A metal instrument consisting of three or more metal rods ending in blunt points, which can be accurately and equally separated by a registering screw appa- ratus at the bases of the rods; it is used for dilating the cervix uteri in rapid delivery {e.g. in eclampsia). Botaili, Duct of.—Ductus arteriosus. See Heart, Physiology {Embryology). BothriOCephaiuS. See Parasites {Cestodes, Bothriocephaliis) ; An.emia, Perni- cious. Bothrops. See Snake-Bites. BotryOidai. — Resembling a bunch of grapes, e.g. Sarcoma hotryoides, a racemose malignant polypus. BotryomyCOSiS.—In veterinary medi- cine fiotryomycosis is a disease of the lungs met with in horses; fibromatous nodules constitute the chief jjulmonary lesion; it is allied to actinomycosis {q.v.). See also Tumours of the Skin {Boti-yomycosis). Bott C h e r'S C ry Sta 1S. —Crystals (phos- phatic) which appear in the fluid of the vesicuke seminales when it is allowed to stand. See Vesicul/H Seminales. Bottini'S Operation.—The treatment of hy])ei'tropiiy (iF tlie prostate gland bj' the thermo-galvanic c;iutery (at a dull-red heat); a special instrument is used ; camphoric acid has been given as a prophylactic against the occur- rence of urinary fever after the Bottini opei'a- tion. Bottle-Feeding'. See Infant Feeding {A rtificiid). Botulism.—Poisoning by sausages; al- lantiasis. S<'e Toxicolo(tY {Animal Foods, Meat). Bouillon.—A clear soup made from l^eef, used as a culture medium for bacteria. See Post-Morteji Methods {Bacteriological Investiga- tion, Cultivation, Beef Broth). Bourbon. See Balneoi.(h;y (France). Bourbonne-les-Bains. See Bal