ADRENAL GLANDS 70 The pigmentation of the skin is usually not uniform, being, as already pointed out, more marked in certain positions. Its degree varies considerably, the skin may be of a dirty hue, brown and imitating the effects of prolonged exposure to the sun, and in rare instances of a dark olive colour, making the patient look like one of the dark-skinned races. In its irregu- larity the bronzing of Addison's disease may resemble that of pregnant women. Occasionally the bronzing of true Addison's disease is associ- ated with leucoderma. In connection with the fact that the pigmentation may sometimes re- semble that seen in dark-skinned races, it is interesting to note that a peculiar odour is sometimes present, and that it has been de- scribed as resembling that emanating from negroes. (6) Pigmentation of mucous surfaces is much less constant, and is probably more directly dependent on irritation for its evolution. Gener- ally it is regarded as of considerable diagnostic importance. Personally, since it is often absent and has been known to occur under other con- ditions, I consider that rather too much stress has been laid upon it. When present it is situated in the coriinn, and not in the sti'atimi mucosum (Dixon Mann). It is seen on the lips along the lines of mutual contact; inky stains may occur on the side of the tongue, on the buccal mucous membrane, or on the gums, and may be, but not constantly, found to be associated with the irritation of carious teeth. It should be noted that pigmen- tation of the mouth is commonly seen in Lascars, in blue-gummed negroes, and very exceptionally in healthy persons, while it has occasionally been observed in other abdominal diseases, such as gastric ulcer, carcinoma, cirrhosis of the liver, and cholangitis. As a rule the conjunctiva is anaemic, and contrasts with the bronzed skin of the face, but occasionally the conjunctiva shows pigmenta- tion. It is said that the vagina may show pigmentation. Nervous symptoms, headache and vertigo, the latter probably being allied to faintness, are not uncommon. Pain in the lumbar region is fre- quently complained of, and may well be con- nected with the dragging of adhesions around the adrenal bodies. Pain is also often felt in the epigastrium and hypochondriac regions as well as in the limbs and joints. Vision and hearing may be impaired, and there is often great mental apathy, but the mind remains clear unless coma or a low form of delirium supervene. When unconsciousness comes on there may be muscular twitchings or convulsions. Convulsions are moi'e frequent in those exceptional cases that occur in early life. The urine does not present any constant or characteristic features. Albumin and sugar are absent. There is no satisfactory evidence that it is more toxic than in health, or that any abnoi-mal pigment is excreted in it. In fact the urinary pigments are rather diminished in amount than otherwise. Indican is sometimes present, but is not of any special importance. The specific gravity is low and the amount of urea diminished, but this is probably related to the diminished intake of food. In women, menstruation is as a rule irregvilar or sup- pressed. The duration of the disease is extremely variable, it has been known to extend over more than ten years, while on the other hand there are acute cases that rapidly prove fatal. In cases where convidsions or collapse suddenly occur and terminate life without constitutional symptoms having been previously noticed, ex- amination of the adrenal glands shows that the lesion is of considerable standing, and that the disease has apparently been latent. The acute development of symptoms has in some instances followed on a severe shock or depressing circum- stances, such as a violent purge. Probably the average duration is about 2-3 years. Death may occur in various ways. There is a marked tendency to syncope, which may prove fatal unexpectedly, and, sometimes from the slight degree of the symptoms, somewhat prema- turely. In some cases the end comes gradually and quietly in a state of great debility, or may be precipitated by severe vomiting or diarrhoea. In other cases death is preceded by delirium, coma, or convulsions. The diagnosis of Addison's disease is in well- marked examples a matter of no difficidty, but in a great many instances it can only be arrived at by a process of excluding any other conditions that can produce the same symptoms. It may be convenient to consider the diagnosis under the two heads of (i.) cases with, and (ii.) cases without pigmentation. (i.) Pigmentation with debility and vomiting may occur in other abdominal diseases, and sometimes when there are growths or lesions in the neighbourhood of the adrenal bodies, the condition if not Addison's disease is, at any rate, often indistinguishable from it. Such cases are those of lymphadenomatous formations in the upper part of the abdomen. In chronic peri- tonitis of tuberculous or malignant origin, in a few instances of hepatic cirrhosis, in pancreatic disease, in uterine disease and other conditions the face may show considerable pigmentation, but the remainder of the body is not affected in the same way. There is a rare disease, acanthosis nigricans, nearly always associated with malignant disease inside the abdomen, where in addition to being pigmented the skin becomes rough and warty, and is thus differentiated from Addison's disease. Diabetes may be accompanied by pigmenta-