AIK, EXAMINATION OF 81 altitudes, such ;is Davos, during the cloudless weather of winter, the temperature in the sun as registered by the black bulb thermometer gives a mean of 86° F. in December, with a maximum air temperature below freezing point. It is to tliis circumstance, together with the dryness of the atmosphere and the absence of wind, that Davos owes its fame as a winter iiealth resort. Whether the water vapour in the atmosphere has this effect of absorbing heat rays is a point on which authorities differ, but all are agreed that in a dry atmosphere a much higlier mean temperature can be borne than in a moist one. The evaporation of moisture from the skin is the great regulator of the tempera- ture of the body, and if the moisture in the air be great, this evaporation is interfered with. The great amount of moisture in tiie atmosphere of tropical and subtropical places situated on the coast is an important cause of the harmful effects of the high temperature. There are several methods of determining the amount of water vapour in the atmosphere, but only two can be described here— 1. The Hair Hygrometer.—This gives the relative humidity. For rapid observations this instrument is useful, though its readings are not always trustworthy. Its action depends on the extension produced on hair when it is moistened. A long hair which has been carefully freed from fat, is stretched and connected with a pointer which travels on a scale and indicates the lengthening or shortening of the hair. The degrees on the scale are not proportional to the relative hinnidity, so that each instrument must lie graduated against a more exact one, such as is next described. 2. The Wet and Dry Bulb Thermometer.— From the readings of this instrument the dew point can be calculated. It consists of two ther- mometers. The bulb of one is surroiuidcd by muslin, from which passes a few strands of darn- ing cotton into a vessel of distilled water. The muslin and cotton must previously be cleansed from any fatty matter. After wetting the muslin on the wet bulb it is kept continually moist by the water rising by capillarity through the cotton. In performing an experiment the appa- ratus is allowed to stand in the air for about one hour. (When observations are regularly made, this will form one of the instruments in a Stevenson's louvred screen, and therefore will always be exposed.) If the air is saturated with moisture then both wet and dry bulbs will show the same temperature. If not, the wet bulb will be lower than the dry bull), and the drier the atmosphere the amount of difference between them will be greater. Evaporation takes place from the nmslin, and the heat required for this is drawn from the bulb. Dr. Apjohn gave an elabo- rate fornuda for finding the dew point from these two readings. Mr. Glaisher has given a simple method, which obviates the need of this calcula- VOL. I tion. By an extended comparison of the read- ings of the wet and dry b\db thermometer with the dew point as otherwise determined, he has provided a series of factors by the use of which tlie dew point can be readily got from these readings. The rule is—multiply the difference between the temperature of the wet and dry bulb thermometers by the factor opposite the temperature of the dry bulb, and subtract the product from the temperature of the dry bxdb thermometer. This gives the dew point. From the dew point we find the aVisolute humidity (/) by consulting tables. If the pressure of water vapour at temperature of dry bidb, i.e. of the air, be s, tlien ^ X 100 = Relative humidity and s -/= defect of saturation. Micro-Organisms.—The micro-organisms found in the atmosphere are almost invariably non- pathogenic. Both moulds and bacteria ai'e found, the latter as a rule predominating. Of the moulds Penicillium glaucum is most fre- quent, but aspergillus and mucor are by no means rare. Of bacteria the micrococci are most frequent, the chromogenic forms, e.g. cin- nabareus, aurantiacus, Sarcina lutea and S. rosea predominating. Of bacilli, subtilis and mesen- tericus are not uncommon. Chromogenic sac- charomyces are also found. The quantitative estimation of the micro-organisms in air has been made by various observers, but by none so systematically as by Miguel in Paris. His observations are made both at Montsouris in the outskirts of Paris and in the centre of the city. The following shows the number per 1000 litres arranged as to season and place :— Montsouris. Moulds. Bacteria. Winter 145 Spring 195 Summer 245 Autumn 230 170 295 345 195 Centre of Paris. Moulds. Bacteria. 1345 4305 2275 8080 2-500 984.S 2185 5665 Any relation between the number of micro- organisms in the atmosphere and the incidence of epidemic disease has not been made out. The nearest approach to such a relation is recorded by Miguel. In 1893 he found that on four separate occasions a sudden increase in the number of micro-organisms in the air was fol- lowed some weeks later by a sudden increase in zymotic mortality. The importance attributed by some to the air as a meditmi of spread of pathogenic organisms has not been verified by bacteriological investigation. The bacteria found in the atmosphere are carried on particles of dust. The patliogenic organisms which cannot live in the dry state (non-spore bearing) can only live on particles of dust sufficiently large to prevent complete drying, and these particles, owing to their size, are only transportable by 6