ASTHMA 313 sure to have one immediately, but should thuy escape the first night they may remain free for a long period. Habit seems to influence both the occurrence and the form of asthmatic attacks. It may be noted that the attacks seem to a slight extent pi'otective ; where asthma comes ou at almost regular intervals, an asthmatic is sometimes able to do those things immediately after an attack which will infallibly bring on another attack when the time for their recur- rence is nearly due. The advent of asthmatic attacks may be influenced by changes more or less evident in the conditions of various tissues and organs. A catarrhal condition, acquired or increased, tends to induce them. The nasal mucous membrane may become so altered as to be the main cause of asthmatic paroxysms. Disease of the uterus may render this organ the special centre whence arises the reflex-excitation lead- ing to asthmatic attacks, and at times certain external parts of the body are so sensitive that even the application of cold may induce an asthmatic attack; on the other hand, the out- break of a rash has been followed by the sub- sidence of asthma. The paroxysms of asthma may, when iniinflu- enced by special causes, come on at regular or irregular intervals. They may occur, for example, every day, every week, every month, or at any other period of time; sometimes, though rarely, with absolute regularity, much moi'e commonly the intervals are somewhat irregular, and not infrequently there is no definite time for recurrence. Dr. Salter has pointed out that asthma paroxysms rarely occur daily unless associated with organic chest diseases, or unless the exciting cause recurs daily. A late dinner-hour may supply this exciting cause. Attacks not unconnnonly come on once a week or once a fortnight. When attacks occur monthly in women they seem associated with menstruation. Asthma sometimes occurs only at certain times of the year, owing to special causes; in the winter only, for example, when complicated with bronchitis ; when connected with hay fever, in the summer only ; but sometimes it is limited to certain times of the year without known cause. Morbid Anatomy.—Little is known of the nature of the morbid changes in asthma. AVatson states that the bodies of asthmatic patients have often, on being examined, pre- sented no vestige of disease in the lungs or heart, and Leyden says he has found the liuigs of those who in early years suff"ered from asthma perfectly normal. Lung changes have indeed been recorded in post-mortems made on sufl'erers from asthma. Thery, in 1859, described the results of sixty-six autopsies on asthmatic people, but the changes noted in the chest were such as are commonly found in ailments with which asthma is usually associated, and throw no light on the condition present during the paroxysms. In recent years, however, the con- ditions observed on the post-mortem examina- tions of sufferers from asthma dying in ;i dyspnoeic attack, have Ijeen carefully recorded in four cases. Vox Leyden, in a case couq^licated by emphysema, dropsy, and aH)iuiiinuria, and dying in a prolonged paroxysm of dyspna'a with cyanosis and stertor, foiuid at the autopsy no dilatation of the bronchi, but the bronchioles contained a little mucus, in which neither spirals nor crj-stals could be found, though both had been noted in attacks during life. Some of the alveoli were dilated, some normal; they contained granular masses, with a moderate amount of large cells; the walls of the bron- chioles were not much altered, but layers of a coarsely granular, apjjarently amorphous, STib- stance adhering to the surface of the mucous membrane reduced their calibre. Berkart, in an old-standing case of bronchitis and asthma with anasarca and dilated heart, and dying after prolonged dyspnoea and cyanosis, found in the right main bronchus a loose cylinder, one branch of Avhich extended into a bronchiole, and in the left main bionchus, in addition to a similar formation, a little greenish mucus. Microscopically the cylindrical mass contained cylindrical epithelium and spirals, but no crystals. There were polypoid excrescences on the right bronchus, fibroid in character with some ulceration. The smallest bronchi were dilated and denuded of epithelium ; they con- tained masses of exudation almost made iip of colonies of streptococci. In the bronchi of medium size there was hyjjerplasia of the mucous membrane, and they contained masses of detritus, with a few fragments of crystals. The alveoli were dilated, and some of them were nearly filled with fibrinous exudation. Schmidt describes the condition of the bronchi in the case of a patient who suffered from asthma as well as cancer of the lung, and who died in a paroxysm. The bronchi of the upper lobes of both lungs were filled out with gluey tenacious mucus which could be drawn out in long spiral threads. In the lower lobes of both lungs the bronchi near the hilus con- tained some plugs of moderate length and slight consistency. The microscopic examination showed that in the majority of the small widened bronchi the epithelium was in good condition, but the connective tissue beneath was infiltrated with round cells. The contents of the bronchi consisted chiefly of mucus in which various cell elements, alveolar epithelium, leucocytes, and degenerated cells, round, oval, and spindle-shaped, were embedded. Spirals could be traced into the smaller bronchi, not into the alveoli.