263 ARTERIES, DISEASES OF arteries at the base of the brain obliterative endarteritis causes sweHings and thickenings wliich are markedly nodular, and even as prominent locally as aneurysm. In this implica- tion of extensive and continuous tracts of vessels the process also differs from atheroma, whicli locally always occiu's in patches, no matter how closely the patches may be placed to each other. The thickening of the intima is found to be present in arteries beyond the reach of in- vestigation during life, so that the clinical inference drawn from the condition of the radials is fairly accurate. The change is present in the coronary, renal, and other arteries; while in the branches of the renal artery inside the kidney it may be present in so marked a degree as to completely occlude some of them ; and in the nutrient arteries of the brain a cori'espond- ing degree of thickening may be present. Along with the change in the tunica intima there was also, as already stated, a thickening of the tunica media, which was mainly, if not entirely, a hypertrophy. This change has not been re- ferred to by writers who use the term arterio- sclerosis. Along with these changes in the arterial wall, the writer found marked diminu- tion in the linnen of the radial arteries—the reverse of the condition which, according to Thoma's view, might be expected. While the condition of the tmiica media and intima is such as has been described, it is important to note that in the branches of the renal artery within the kidney, and in the nutrient arteries of the brain, there may be no thickening of the tunica media, but that, on the contrary, this coat may be atrophied, and may even disappear, and the occluded vessel, when seen in transverse section, may appear as a hyaline or fibro-hyaline globe, with few or no nuclei. In this respect also the arterial changes differ wholly from atheroma : in atheroma the thickening of the intima does not lead directly to occlusion of the vessel, and atheroma does not occur in the arteries within the kidney. In the kidney, when an inter- lobular branch is occluded, all the Malpighian bodies, dependent for their blood-supply on the occluded vessel, arc rendered functionless ; and following upon that, the tubules connected with them are rendered etiually functionless. The consequent atrophy is known as arteriosclerotic atrophy, and gives rise to a riramilnr kidney, which is commonly mistaken for the granular kidney of a primaiy interstitial nephritis. It is necessary, in view of the position here taken up as to the application of the term arteriosclerosis, to state that atheroma, as well as arteriosclerosis, may be, and often is, present in the same person. Atheroma is so commonly present in some part of the arterial system that its presence along with arteriosclerosis need not surprise us. The point which requires to be enforced is this: that although patches of atheroma are found, it is not to be assumed that all thickened intima would ultimately undergo this degeneration. Such a view is totally inaccurate, for even in old people who have shown arteriosclerosis for years in their radial arteries, there may be no trace of atheromatous degeneration in them, and but little in the large arteries. Calcification of the Middle Coat of Akteries.—This is a much rarer condition than calcareous infiltration following upon atheroma. It affects extensive tracts of arteries, converting them into tortuous, rigid, and brittle tubes. The calcareous matter which is deposited enters into chemical combination with the proteids of the tunica media. It can, however, be removed without destroying the coat, and without greatly altering its histological characters. Fatty Degeneration of the Tunica Intima. —This condition consists of a fatty degeneration of the endothelium, and is recognised by the occurrence of small, yellow, slightly - raised patches. They are common in the aorta and its large branches. It is probably always associated with a certain amount of thickening of the tunica intima. This, however, seems to be secondary to the fatty degeneration ; at all events the degeneration is quite superficial. The Clinical Recognition and Significance of Structural Arterial Changes.—The main means by which the condition of the arterial system is judged is by examining the radial arteries. In them the points which are usually considered are thickening of the wall, tortuosity of course, and the presence of hard or calcareous segments. As has been already stated, it is a prevalent custom to call all thickenings of the radial artery " atheroma," and the objections to this loose use of the term need not be repeated. Atheroma is by no means as common in the radial arteries as is commonly supposed. When it is present they are tortuous and thickened, and the calcareous segments are readily felt. From this condition of the radials it is infen-ed that a like condition affects other arteries of like size ; and of all these the coronary and the cere- bral arteries are necessarily the most important. When, therefore, atheroma of the radials is associated with symptoms of angina pectoris, or of feeble heart without angina, the presumption is that the myocardium is suff'ering in its nutri- tion from a like condition of its coronary arteries ; and this is in the main an accurate deduction. In addition to long-continued im- poverishment of the heart muscle there is a further risk, nsimely, thrombosis of a branch or liranches of the coronary, which gives rise to an infarction in the wall of the ventricle, a condi- tion producing marked and prolonged cardiac disturbance. In the brain atheroma may cause little or no disturbance of cerebral function. In old people it is probably a factor in the general lowering of mental and physical power, but it is often im-