ABDOMEN, INJURIES OF mischief. The only positive signs of penetra- tion are the actual escape of the viscera or their contents through the abdominal wound, and the evidence afforded hj a profuse intra-abdominal hiemorrhage. The passage through the external woinid of the fluid contents of any of the hollow viscera, sucli as bile, faeces, lu-ine, or partially digested food, is not common, and cannot easily occur unless the perforation in the viscus is of moder- ate size, and in a line with the wound in the abdominal wall. The rapidly increasing pallor and collapse, and the other phenomena associated with severe intra-peritoneal htcmorrhage, have already been considered and need not be repeated here. Injury to nerves, or spinal cord, will simw itself in paralysis of the parts supplied. (In order to .save repetition, reference must be made to that part of the subject dealing with contusions complicated by visceral injuries, for a detailed account of the general and local symptoms just i-eferred to.) Diagnosis.—The positive evidence of yjenetra- tion afforded by the escape of the viscera or their contents through the parietal woimd, and l)y the occurrence of symptoms indicative of severe internal haemorrhage, has already been alluded to. It is necessary to be careful not to mistake a portion of sub-peritoneal fat for a piece of omentum ; and it must be remembered that in wounds of the lumbar region, ffcces may escape hoxw the colon without involvement of the peri- toneum. Some information may be derived from an examination of the patient's clothing and the external wound ; thus, if a line joining the apertures of exit and entrance of a bullet wound passes through the peritoneal cavity, it is probable that the viscera which lie in its course have been perforated. The length of any blood-covered portion of an instrument pro- ducing a stab wound may also give some idea of the depth of penetration and likelihood of involvement of the viscera. But all such deductions are conjectural, and, in these uncertain cases, Senn has reconunendcd the method of inflation of hydrogen gas through the rectum or oesophagus—according to whether the supposed lesion is intestinal or gastric—for the purpose of diagnosing visceral perforation. Hydrogen gas is preferred because of its light- ness, by which it always rises to the surface, its harmless nature, and its easy ignition. It is prepared, in the usual way, by means of sul- phuric acid and zinc, and is collected in a rubber balloon capalde of holding about four gallons. A nozzle (for insertion into the rectum or stomach) is attached to the balloon by means of rubber tubing. Prcssvu-c upon the bag forces the gas along the intestinal tract, until it meets with a perforation, when it escapes mto the general peritoneal cavity, and gives rise to tympanitic resonance over the site of the normal liver dulness. This was mentioned when considering contusions with visceral com- plications. Should there be a parietal wound, as in the circumstances now before us, the gas escapes audibly if the parietal opening is made patulous, and may be ignited. The flame is easily extinguished by placing a wet sponge over it. In this way, then, perforation of the gastro- intestinal tract may be diagnosed before open- ing the abdomen ; and, in the hands of Senn, it appears to have been successful. But the in- flation test may fail; its failure is not a definite contra-indication to operation ; and it may a(ki to the danger through increase of shock, and forcing of fecal fluids through the intestinal wound into the general cavity. For these reasons it is inferior to exploratory incision as an aid to diagnosis, though it is a most valuable- means of help in the search for perforations after the abdomen has been opened. Exploratory incision, then, is the quickest, safest, and most certain way of deciding whether the wound has penetrated the peritoneal cavity, and whether the abdominal contents have been injured. To this end the wound may be en- larged, under strict antiseptic precautions, in all cases of doubt ; luiless some obvious contra- indication to any form of operation exists. Proc/tiosis.—Penetrating wounds, whether stab or gunshot wounds, are extremely fatal injuries, and have a general mortality of about MO or 90 per cent. Gunshot wounds of the gall-bladder, spleen, and intestine—not submitted to opera- tion— are amongst the most fatal injuries ; whereas gunshot wounds of the liver are not infrequently followed by recovery. The effect of operation in reducing the higii moi'tality of these injuries is satisfactory, though doubtless it will be further improved by more timely interference. Of 234 cases of celiotomy for perforating gunshot wounds, collected by Morton, the mortality was 58-9 per cent; and Coley has collected 165 operations with a general mortality of 67-2 per cent. Of these last, 81 were for wounds of the small intestine, with 25 recoveries ; 24 of the stomach, with 6 recoveries; ,36 of the colon, with 12 recoveries; and 19 of the liver, with 8 recoveries. Amongst the 81 cases of wounds of the small intestine, there was an average of 5"4 perforations for each case. In only 9 of the 165 cases did the surgeon fail to find all the lesions present. The influence of time has been shown by Adler, whose statistics of 154 abdominal sections for gunshot wounds show a mortality of 52-7 per cent for operations within five hours of the injui-y, and a mortality of 78-2 per cent in cases of operation after twenty-four hours. Treatmeiit.—The general treatment of pene- trating wounds is carried out in the same manncr as for contusions of the abdomen. If there is any doubt about the involvement