344 BALNEOLOGY application. Some confined their advocacy to pure water, which they applied externally in acute and chronic diseases. Thus Van der Heyde, treating a malignant dysentery in Hollaiid in the seventeenth century, foreshadowed the treatment which two hundred years later was systematised as Hydropathy. Sir John Floyer, in England (1697), prominently called attention to the medical value of baths, but their use is scarcely mentioned by Syden- ham, and it is discouraged by Mead. The opprobrium into which baths had fallen in this country partly arose " from the notion of the moderns that macerating in hot water and sweat- ing in bed afterwards answered all the purposes of bathing" (T. Glass, 1752). Both waters and baths were, however, prescribed by Boer- haave and by Heberden. Sir James Currie, at the end of the eighteenth century, in his Report on the Effects of Water, Cold a7id- Warm, may be said to have laid the foundation of exact balneology. His work at once awoke a strong interest in the siibject in Germany. The doc- trine of hydrotherapy was revived. The em- piricist Priessnitz began his water treatment in 1829. Under afresh impulse of medical inquiry the mineral waters were everywhere analysed and taken into use ; the douche bath was intro- duced into France, and peat baths into Austria. The latter half of the nineteenth century has witnessed the application of exact methods and systematic study, and the commencement of a new fabric of balneology. But the Vienna school of scientific hydrotherapy led by Winter- nitz, by establishing the rationale of common balneary procedures, marks the most important advance of the century. IL The Action of Baths Differences not only in the ingredients, but in the vehicle and physical properties of baths, aff"ect their action. Besides liquid baths, some, like peat and mud baths, are semi-solid; some consist wholly, or in part, of vapour, or of gases of various kinds, such as carbonic acid gas or atmospheric air; and others of solid particles, as the sand bath. \i\ all these cases, particles of matter in the liquid, gaseous, or solid form are the vehicles for conveying energy to the body or abstracting energy from it. Energy is also applied directly without material interven- tion, in the same manner as the body discharges heat, by radiation. In the " sun bath" and artificial imitations of it the skin is exposed to the action of the solar or other rays. Baths of all kinds are applied either to the entire surface of the body or locally. One form may be com- bined or alternated with others, and diff'erences in the precise form of the bath, its temperature, duration, and attendant circumstances, greatly modify the resulting action. In whatever form applied, baths exert their action solely upon the skin. That is to say, they take effect directly upon the skin, and through the skin indirectly upon other parts of the body. The chief value of a mineral bath was formerly supposed to attach to the cutaneous absorption of its ingredients. Saline, alkaline, or muriated waters were believed to produce essentially the same eff'ects, whether internally or externally applied. This opinion, based on a mistaken view of the functions of the skin, is now known to be erroneous. It has been shown that mineral matters dissolved in baths do not pass through an imbrokeu skin, and that even pure water is only absorbed in small quantities, and that absorption is a negligible factor in most cases. Certain gases and volatile matters, such as sulphuretted hydrogen and aromatics, occur in baths, and may pass through the epidermis. If frictions are used in connec- tion with baths the cutaneous absorption is powerfully aided, and volatilised or dissolved matters may pass into the circulation, as in mercurial inunction. Apart from these excep- tional cases, the chief action of baths is the application at the body surface of heat and moisture, and of different forms of mechanical and chemical energy. Hence it is that the physiology of the skin is at the foundation of balneology. A knowledge of the intimate connections subsisting between the skin and other parts of the body is necessary, in order to a correct appreciation of the effects of baths in chronic disease. The chief relative physiological propositions may be summarised as follows :—Firstly, the skin as a heat-regulat- ing organ : The low conductivity for heat of the skin and subcutaneous fat prevents too rapid a loss of bodily warmth, and permits life to go on in temperatures far lower than that of the body. Of the daily loss of heat, estimated at 2,500,000 calories for a healthy man, about nine-tenths passes by radiation, conduction, or evaporation from the skin (Vierordt). The loss of heat at any time is proportional to the excess of the skin temperature over that of the external medium. The warmer the skin, the greater is the loss of heat, and, on the contrary, cooling of the skin, by contraction of its blood-vessels, diminishes the loss and conserves the bodily warmth. The blood supply of the skin is of such a kind, and governed by a mechanism so sensitive, that the loss of bodily heat is adjusted moment by moment to the fluctuations of external temperature. Secondly, as a depura- tive organ : The skin is furnished with a vast secretory and excretory glandular system. Thirdly, it is by the skin that relation is had with the external world. An expansion of the nervous system is spread over its surface, by means of which different forms of sensation are habitually conducted to the brain. There is also reason to believe that certain areas of the skin are related to corresponding internal organs, and that both are consentaneously affected, and J