BEAIN, PHYSIOLOGY OF 462 enter the cranial cavity through the foramen magnum, and at the lower margin of the pons they unite to form the basilar artery, which divides opposite the beginning of the inter- HALF-VI5101 CENTRE COLOUR CENTRE cerebral cortex, and the central arteries to the basal ganglia, are devoid of all anastomosis with each other, and are true terminal arteries. The cortical branches are found in the sub- arachnoid space, and before enter- ing the cortex they give off branches at right angles which may, according to Duret, be divided into two groups —a short cortical group, which for the most part terminates in a fine capillary net- work in relation to the large pyra- midal and gan- glion celled layer of the grey matter, and a longer medullary group, which, after passing right through the grey matter, supplies the underlying white sub- stance for a depth of a half to three-quarters of an inch. As already said, this latter group does not anastomose with the central branches, so that between the territories supplied by these two groups of vessels there is an area so feebly nourished that it is apt to be the seat of lacunar softening in old people. The anterior cerebral is distributed on the inner aspect of the hemisphere as far back as the parieto-occipital fissure, to the orbital surface CENTRE f OR SMELl, Fig. 2.—Median aspect of left cerebral hemisphere, showing the fissures anil main coiivohitions, also the centres for smell, for vision, and colour vision. peduncular space into the two posterior cere- bral arteries. Each internal carotid divides, on entering the cranium, into the anterior and middle cerebral arteries. The two anterior cerebral arteries are connected, close to their origin, by the anterior communicating artery; the middle and posterior cerebrals on each side are united by the posterior communicating artery. Tliere is thus established an arterial intercom- munication (termed the " circle of Willis") of the greatest importance for the maintenance of an efficient supply to the hemispheres, which can be carried on even if one of the main trunks becomes occluded. The three cerebral arteries, anterior, middle, and posterior, supply each hemisphere, giving off branches to the cortex and the immediately subjacent white matter, on the one hand (corti- cal branches), and to the central ganglia and the siiperjacent centrum ovale, on the other (central branches). It is important to remember that there is no anastomosis between the cortical and the central groups of vessels, so that the results of occlusion of one group of vessels are independent of those of the other. Again, the anas- tomosis between the main and the subsidiary branches of the cerebral arteries is so imperfect that for practical pur- poses they may be regarded as being, though they are not in reality (Heubner), terminal arteries. Consequently occlusion of one artery or one of its main branches leads to a softening, strictly limited to the area supplied by the affected vessel. Again, the smaller twigs which enter the -To show the distribution of the five branches of the middle cerebral artery. of the frontal lobe, to the anterior two-thirds of the second frontal, and to the whole of the superior and the upper half of the ascending- frontal convolutions. Its central branches supply the upper part of the head of the caudate nucleus and are occasionally the seat of haemorrhage. The middle cerebral is the laruest as well as