ALCOHOLISM 101 whicli must always be assumed between a cortical mechanism and its vascular supply. A group, or constellation, or tract of nerve-cells and fibres can never be supposed to incur disease without a coincident affection of some nature in the vessels which supply and are controlled by it. Connective tissue changes, on the other hand, are, in my opinion, always more remote. They represent phagocytic processes, that is, part of the mechanism for the elimination of waste matter, and later a substitution process whereby the lower forms of tissue abound when the failure of nutritive conditions has made the persistence of higher tissues impossible. When we tin-n to histology for an explanation of the diminished and perverted reactions of alcoholism we must, in the first instance, have regard to the nerve-cell and its processes. In the elements, especially of the deep cell-layers of the convolutions, changes occur both in the non-conductor parts of the cell and in the fibrillar portions which the nerve - currents traverse. These are as yet indiscriminate, but the following facts have been noted. In the non-conductive portions of the cell the chromatic bodies m&v be displaced fi'om their perinuclear position towards the periphery, scattered variously in the cell-body, or pulver- ised. The displaced and fading luicleus, the swollen and distorted cell-body, the hardening of peripheral protoplasm so as to develop for the first time a cell-wall, the aggregation of pigment granules under it, truncation of the process cones, fatty globules, and vacuolation, precede the complete disappearance of the cell. The changes in the conductive portions of the cell — the fibrilhe of the processes and of the perinuclear filar network (cytoreticulum)—have not been made so clear. Theoretically, however, the changes in them are of the first importance. The lesion, whatever it may appear luider the microscope, is in the nature of a trophic defect which spreads as an ascending or descending lesion to functionally related mechanisms. For it must be remembered that the nerve-mechan- isms of the cortex are as dependent upon their relations for their trophic supply as are the nerves of the lower realms, although the channels of it are much more diffuse. There seems some reason, however, for the hypothesis that structural changes do not initiate in the tiVirillar portions of the cell, but that conduction is impaired as the result of the changes in the chromatic portion, and that by the time the fibrilhe become so structurally altered that we can observe the condition the lesion is necessarily very grave and implies the atrophy and dis- appearance of the whole cell (neuron). Certain it is that complete wasting of the cells and their disappearance can he demonstrated much oftener than a previous change in the fibrilhe. Beyond a certain stage, then, the gravity of a lesion is in proportion to the disappearance of cells rather than according to the kind of changes observable in those which remain. Changes, however, have been described l)oth in the axis-cylinder processes and in dendrons. These are chiefly varicose atrophy which occurs in both kinds of processes, fatty degeneration of the medullary sheath of the axis-cylinder, and an apparent stripping of the ampulliX! of the dendrites. LTnfortunately, however, much of these may be due to senility, to post-mortem or to ante-mortem changes, or to defective preparation. One would expect the earliest changes to occur in the arboriform termi- nations of the collaterals and in the dendritic terminals, because these are the most plastic and, by all analogy, the most delicate portions of the cell. But if, as seems likely, the structural change, when it does begin in these terminals, is a rapid atrophy, it may easily elude research. Simultaneously with these lesions of the cell degenerations of the minute vessels can be ob- served, and indications, especially in the subpial vessels, of recent arteritis. Tortuous, distended, unequally bulging, the deep, small vessels have their tunics crowded with proliferated nuclei, and scavenger cells multiply along their course. Miliary aneurysms are ;ibundantly formed, and, under the microscope, the lumen of the small vessels may be seen choked with a waxen-like plug, or the section of the vessel may have dropped out, leaving an empty space. These changes occur both in the white and in the grey matter. With the shrinking and disappearance of the nervous elements, sclerosis increases, and it has a characteristic distribution. In the most super- ficial layers, immediately beneath the pia in which the deep cell processes are projected, and again in the fifth, large motor cell-layer, the greatest connective tissue infiltration occurs. Under the pia the mass of it is most apparent. There one can often see a dense matting of con- nective tissue, apparent, when stained, even to the naked eye, and having the appearance, under the microscope, of a dense, wiry web. The spider-cells which have appeared in the subpial zone can be traced down alongside of the inward vessels, and numerous lymphoid elements crowd the perivascular spaces. In the fifth cell-layer, even when the superficial sclerosis is not marked, these products of degeneration are obvious — abundant spider- cells and nuclear proliferation, following the course of diseased vessels, and gathering round the decaying cells. Of perhaps secondary importance we must also note chronic inflammatory changes in the meninges accompanying the endarteritis, amy- loid bodies, sometimes very numerous, in the epicerebral space, and, in very chronic cases, great thickening of the meninges. In the spinal cord the posterior cohnnns and the lateral cohnnns are chiefly affected. Menin- gitis, increased vascularity, and sclerosis, not of