ARTERIES, INJURIES OF 267 or absent, the vessel should be ligated above and below the site of injury, owing to the risk of secondary hajmon-hage ensuing. In incised wounds complete division of the wounded vessel after the application of a liga- ture above and below the incised wound should be the unvarying rule of practice. Ill gunshot injuries the same treatment is called for. Owing to the danger of the super- vention of sepsis the woTind must be disinfected witii scrupulous care. In gunshot wounds of an extremity the elastic bandage (Esmarch) is a valuable aid to the surgeon. Owing to the frequency of simultaneous injury to the artery and vein, gangrene is peculiarly liable to occur, and may rapidly prove fatid from septicsemia. Amputation may be necessary to avert death. In cases in which the main artery and vein are injured, and in which the bone is shattered, amputation must be immediately performed. In cases of gunshot wound in which the tissues in the neighbourhood of the injured artery become infiltrated with blood, and masses of coagulum press upon the vein, an incision should at once be made down to the injured artery, a ligature must be applied to it on either side of the lesion, and the blood-clot removed. Simultaneous Wound ok the Main Autery AND Vein of an Extremity.—This, owing to the danger of gangrene supervening, is a most formidable accident. In such cases the wound in the arteiy must be secured by a ligature placed on either side of the bleeding point. Sliould the wound in the vein be but small, it should be sutured, or the margins of the orifice being caught up with arterj' forceps, they should be secured by lateral ligature in such a way as not to occlude the lumen of the vessel. If the wound in the vein be a large transverse one, the vein must be doubly ligated. A long cut in the direction of the vein may generally be sutured with good result. The limb should in all cases be wrapped in cotton wool and elevated. Wounds of Special Arteries Common Carotid Artery.—A wound of this important vessel is commonly caused by a stab with homicidal, or more rarely suicidal, intent, a gunshot wound, or inadvertently by the surgeon during some operation in the neck. It is always a most dangerous, and not infreqiiently, unless surgical aid is at hand, an almost im- mediately fatal accident. Tlie immediate danger to life depends upon the direction and extent of the wound in the vessel walls. A transverse cut almost completely severing the vessel is the most deadly, a small vertical incision parallel with the course of the vessel the least dangerous lesion, as in the latter compression may succeed in stanching the blood-flow. In ever}^ case the artery must be securely ligated above and below the wound, and then completely severed. In suicidal cut-throat the artery, lying as it does deeply, is rarely injured. Secondary haemor- rhage from a wound of the carotid, occurring, as is usually the case, in a deep septic wound in the neck, is a very serious condition. If the ends of the vessel are in a sufliciently healthy state to allow of the application of ligatures, these should be placed on each extremity of the artery. In certain cases, however, all tiiat can be done is to pack the wound tightly with anti- septic gauze, and if this fail, secure the vessel lower down and higher up. Externid Carotid Artery.—In inj^u'les of this arteiy, which are not infrequent, or in htemor- rhages from sloughing infected wounds or carcinomatous erosions of this vessel, e.g. in the case of secondary glandular growths, however difficult of execution the procedure may be, the proximal and distal ends of tlie divided or eroded vessel must be ligated. Ligation of the common carotid artery, a far easier and there- fore more tempting operation, is in such cases quite unjustifiable, as it frequently fails per- manently to arrest the haemorrhage, owing to the very rich anastomosis of the branches of the exteniid carotid, and it exposes the patient to the very serious risk of cerebral softening supervening on ligation of the common carotid artery. Internal Carotid Artery.—Ligation of this artery is rarely called for, as wounds of this vessel are rare. Wound of the internal carotid during the performance of tonsillotomy, fre- quently described, is in practice unknown. In case of wound of the internal carotid artery a ligature should be applied, if possible, on each side of the lesion. If this cannot be accom- plished, the common carotid artery may be tied with perhaps the external carotid in addition. Internal Maxillary Artery. — This vessel, owing to its relation to the parotid gland and condyle of the mandible, defies successful liga- tion. The external carotid artery should be tied, and if hEBmorrhage recur, pressure should l>e applied by gauze packing. Lingual Artery.—This artery may be injured in bites of the tongue in epileptics, or secondary hfemorrhage may occur in sloughing wounds of the tongue after partial amputations of this organ. In every case, where possible, the vessel should be ligated at the bleeding point. Should this not be possible, however, from the rotten condition of the vessel walls, the arteiy nuist be tied at the seat of election in the neck. Middle Meningeal Artery.—Hi^emorrhagc from a wound of this vessel is a not infrequent and formidable accident, and is usually observed in fractures of the cranium. The condition usually calls for trephining of the skull in simple fractures and ligature of the bleeding vessel. In compound fractures removal of the broken pieces of the skull may siiffice without tlie