196 ANKLE-JOINT, REGION OF—INJURIES AND DISEASES may be the chief lesion. It also sometimes com- plicates a fracture of the lower end of the fibula. The condition is likely to be mistaken for syno- vitis of the tendinous sheath, sprain of the ankle-joint, or fracture of the external malleo- lus. The presence of the tendons in an abnormal situation, with the absence of symp- toms indicating the other lesions, will make its recognition easy. Treatment.—The indications are to reduce the tendon, and to maintain it in position until the torn structures are healed. There is, as a rule, no difficulty in reducing the tendon, which can be done by extending the foot, abducting it, and pushing the tendon back into its proper place. Suitable compresses are then applied, and are kept in position by a bandage firmly applied. Absolute rest in bed, with the foot raised, must be observed. After a fortnight of this treat- ment a silicate bandage or some similar immov- able apparatus is to be applied, which will allow the patient to move about. In a month, if the reduction is maintained, walking may be per- mitted, but it must be done cautiously and only for short periods at first. The difficulties in maintaining the tendon in position is in some cases very great, if not impossible. It has been proposed to divide the tendon in such cases. In a case of this kind the luxated tendon of the peroneus longus was divided under the cuboid, the torn sheath irritated by the introduction of a tenotome, the tendon replaced and the limb fixed. In three weeks the patient was pro- nounced cured, and after five years the cure remained perfect. An interesting case of dis- location of the peroneal tendons is published {British Medical Journal, 1897, p. 1216), in which a novel procedure was adopted. The sheath of the tendons was exposed and the rent in it stitched. An oblong piece of periosteum, covering the outer surface of the fibula, was then peeled off, left attached to the posterior margin of the bone, and fixed securely to the fascia behind the sheath. In this way a piece of periosteum arched over the peroneal tendons. Three sutures were now put into the sheath, which fastened it to some firm fascia behind the groove. The incision healed, the leg was put up in plaster of Paris for some weeks, afterwards a leather support was worn. The cure appears to have been permanent. This plan of treat- ment is of great value when the tendons refuse to remain in their proper position and other methods of treatment are of no avail. The tendons of the tibialis posticus and of the tibialis anticus may also be displaced. In the case of the former, the luxation produced by a fall was diagnosed, reduced, and the foot fixed for three months. Wounds of the ankle are divided into two classes : those that penetrate the joint and those that do not. The latter are of but slight con- sequence unless attended with suppuration. which may extend to and endanger the articula- tion. Wounds which communicate with the interior of the joint must always be regarded as serious accidents, and will require careful treatment. Neglect of proper precautions will lead to destruction of the joint, aiad possibly to a fatal issue. The majority of penetrating wounds arise from gunshot injuries. Some, however, are pro- duced accidentally by sharp tools, such as chisels, falling on the foot. The symptoms vary; usually there is an escape of synovia, in the form of a glairy, oily fluid, which appears more or less mixed with blood. The quantity may be scarcely appreciable if the aperture through which it escapes is small. It is soon followed by swelling of the parts from haemorrhage and effusion into the joint. When the parts are not infected, and suitable treatment is provided, the synovitis which comes on will not be severe and will readily yield. After absorption of the effused fluids, the functions of the joint, after a time, are re-established, there being but little impair- ment of movement. When, however, micro- organisms are introduced with the instrument inflicting the wound, an acute septic arthritis will generally follow {vide "Ankle-Joint, Diseases of"). The case will almost at once assume a serious character, and the prognosis, both as regards limb and life, may be extremely grave. As it may be often very difficult to determine with certainty whether a wound has penetrated the ankle-joint, it is always wise to treat all wounds in this part as if they penetrated th& joint, to clean and close the opening, to apply an antiseptic dressing, and to immobilise the part. Wounds—Gunshot.—Such accidents, rare in civil practice, are always serious, but in no class of cases does modern surgery find a more im- portant field or hold out brighter prospects of success. There is so little subcutaneous tissue about the ankle that in all gunshot injuries of this region, beyond a mere graze, important structures must inevitably be damaged. Ten- dons may be divided and their synovial sheaths opened. The nerve and vascular supply to the foot may be cut offi The bones, in all prob- ability, will be comminuted, and not only the ankle-joint itself, but the articulations of the foot may be opened. Should septic or infective organisms gain access to such a wound, and the patient survive the subsequent toxaemia, disable- ment, more or less prolonged, must follow. The general health will be taxed by prolonged suppuration and hectic fever. Locally the con- sequent arthritis and necrosis, together with the non-union of divided nerves and tendons, will result in a deformed, ankylosed, and perhaps useless limb. But, judging from the experi- ence gained in recent years, and from the brilliant results following the antiseptic treat- ment of compound fractures extending into the