ANAEMIA, PERNICIOUS 134 contain relatively little hscmoglobin; just as when the blood is restoring itself after a severe hjemorrhage. The colour-index then is normal, or usually below the normal. Stained films.—When stained films of the blood are examined, the scantiness of the cor- puscles, their large size, their deformity, and such peculiarities as polychromatophilia are of course broiight out. It will be seen, too, that while some of them have a large pale centre, others show little trace of the normal bicon- cavity, and stain uniformly, or nearly so. More important than any of these changes is the presence of nucleated red corpuscles, and the kind of nucleated corpuscle which is present. Nucleated red corpuscles are found in many severe secondary anaemias, and are most common of all in spleno-meduUary leucocythsemia, but in these cases they are almost always normoblasts, or if megaloblasts are present, they are not so numerous as the normoblasts (vide " Blood"). In pernicious anajmia the reverse is the case. Megaloblasts may be found alone, or if normo- blasts are present they are less numeroiis than the megaloblasts. It must not be imagined, however, that either variety is usually present in large number. It often means a tedious search, lasting for hours, and extending over several films, before one can find a suificiency of nucleated red corpuscles to be sure of the case. In order to find enough leucocytes to make a differential covmt of the varieties present it may be necessary to spread some films of the blood unusually thickly, and to dry them at once with artificial heat. It will be found that there is a much larger proportion of lymphocytes present than normal, usually a little under 50 per cent of the whole number, but sometimes more. Their increase is at the expense of the polymorpho- nuclear neutrophiles, the other varieties are not specially altered. A few myelocytes are some- times seen. Micro-organisms have several times been de- scribed as being present in the blood, but they have never been cultivated nor shown to be pathogenic, and their appearance is certainly due either to accident or to an error in manipulation. The amount of blood in the body must be greatly lessened, as any one will realise who has seen the bloodlessness of a post-mortem examina- tion in such cases, and as the shrinking of the vessels evidences. The amount of water is always increased, and the amount of albumen in the blood may sink even to a third of the normal, so that the whole blood, corpuscles and plasma, may contain less than the normal plasma. HoBmcn-rhafies of various kinds are frequent, though not usually large in amount. They may come from the mucous membranes, or may take place in the skin or in internal organs, especially in the central nervous system. They are most frequent, or most frequently traceable, in the retina, and are by some regarded as a diagnostic \ sign of importance, though they may occur in \ other severe ana3mias. They may cause impair- i ment or loss of vision, but do so comparatively ' rarely. | The urine often presents no abnormality. It '■ is, usually pale, but may sometimes become j darker from the presence of urobilin or small J traces of hsematoporphyrin or other pigments, j Bleeding may of course occur from the urinary ; tract. There is sometimes an excess of indican, i and Hunter has described the presence of certain ; poisonous diamines—putrescin and cadaverin— which other observers have not met with. The amount of lu-ea and of uric acid excreted is usually large. Albumen may appear, but usually only in small quantity, even when the kidneys ' are gravely altered. j 2 he nervous system must of course suffer, and ! we often find patients complaining of vertigo, I tinnitus, depression, loss of memory, or sleepless- ' ness. HEemorrhages into different parts of the i central nervous system may produce their char- \ acteristic symptoms and even cause death, and : the degenerative changes in the spinal cord ! may give rise to ataxia, loss of knee-jerks, and ! some disturbance of sensation. Much more \ i-arely is spastic paralysis seen; and it is curious j that in cases where marked degeneration in the j cord is found post mortem, the spinal symptoms ^ have not always been prominent at all. Some- I times the intellect remains luiimpaired to the j end, sometimes delirium or convulsions may pre- .1 cede a comatose condition, and not infrequently 1 the patient becomes more and more lethargic, and slips insensibly into coma. | The temjterature during the disease follows no \ definite course. During the greater part of it it may be normal or even subnormal, but it is \ much more common to find occasional pyrexial | attacks. These may be very short, but last j usually for a few days or a week or two at a S time. The fever is seldom high, and the tern- \ perature - chart shows many remissions and i irregularities. Sometimes a case will show a : continued febrile condition for long periods, but i this is not usual. The cause of the fever is not i known. It may be due to increased blood- j destruction, or, as Coupland suggested, to | capillary haemorrhages in the heat-reg\dating j centres, or possibly to absorption from the \ alimentary tract. | CouRSB AND Prognosis.—The prognosis is | always bad, but the course varies very greatly. \ Some cases pass steadily from bad to worse and ; die in a few weeks. Others get down to a low \ point, and may remain stationary, or nearly so, \ for months. Others again, with or without \ treatment, rapidly improve, remain practically i well for a time, and then relapse, and this | remission and relapse may be repeated several j times. This tendency to remission and relapse 1