255 APPENDICITIS " even though it may appear iioniial from its gross appearance." It may be true that the removal of the appendix adds little to the gravity of the operation for which the abdomen was primarily opened ; but it is beginning to be felt more and more that this organ plays some important part in the metabolism of the body, and that the sequehTe of its removal can- not be all accounted for by the shock of the operation. The tendency of opinion founded on experi- ence is to show that disease in the cfecum and its neighbourhood is due, in the vast majority of cases (95 to 100 per cent), to appendicitis ; consequently the terms typhlitis and peri- typhlitis are passing out of sight and out of iniud. The importance of anatomical (and probably congenital) peculiarities in the ap- pendix, its mesentery, and its position is being more clearly recognised; and it is admitted that some aj^pendices are almost certain to become the seat of inflammation. The import- ance, also, of the bacillus coli communis as the causal agent is generally admitted, as is also the fact that there are conditions in the appendix which magnify its virulence. The importance, as a symptom, of surface tenderness at M'Burney's point has possibly been exaggerated, but deep-seated tenderness is probably of considerable value. Pain is usually felt over the appendix, and its marked increase after thirty-six hours (formation of pus), or its great intensity, generall}' indicate operative measures ; its sudden disappearance, also, point- ing to gangrene or perforation, should not be allowed to delay operation, but should rather hasten it. Marked leucocytosis accompanied by the glycogen reaction generally indicates operation. Other indications are vomiting con- tinuing after the first twenty-four hours, and a pulse of more than 100, which is out of pro- portion to the temperature and which tends to increase in rapidity. Tlie indications for non-interference (by opera- tion) are more difficult of definition. The absence of a history of previous attacks, of great tender- ness on deep palpation, of the initial rigor, of marked leucocytosis and the glycogen reaction in the blood, and the non-continuance of severe pain, are circumstances which may warrant delay in operating {Med. Press and Circ. Ixxvii. 112, 1904), and may indicate the use of medical means (hot or cold local applications, the cautious employment of morphine or belladonna, and lavage of the colon). At tlie same time evei-i/ case requires careful watching, as it is very unsatisfactory to operate after the " knock- down blow" of an appendicular rupture or gangrene has occurred (Cotterill, Scott. Med. ami Surg. Journ. xiv. 200, 1904). Tlie distance of the patient from a surgeon, e.g. a comitry case, will also have to be taken into account in de- ciding whether or not to operate.] Append aCOStOmy. — Tiiis operation, which was introduced by Weir of New York in 1902, has recently been performed with favourable results in several recorded cases. The appendix is simply fixed in a small abdominal wound and cut across cither imme- diately or a day or two later. Through the ojjening thus established weak antiseptic solu- tions may be introduced to wash out the large intestine in such conditions as ulcerative and mucous colitis. The procedure might also prove useful in conditions requiring the administration of nourishment by the bowel for a long period, and, as suggested by Sir William Bennett (La?icet, I^ebruary 17, 1906), to permit the escape of flatus in paralytic distension of the bowel. Appendix Vermiform is, Actino- vii/cosi.s of.—This parasite may enter any part of the intestine, but usually prefers the appendix. It may penetrate its walls, cause sup- puration, ulceration, and necrosis. The inflam- mation may spread to the peritoneum and sub- peritoneal tissue. It is dift'erent from ordinary appendicitis, because it is of slower progress and the symptoms are less acute. It is practically painless. A great deal of infiltration takes place, and numerous fistulous tracks are formed ; there is no involvement of glands and the growth remains very circumscribed (Jamon). It is a very rare disease. >SVt; also Actinomtco.sis. Faecal Fistula of.—A fistula may persist from perforation of the caecum or gangrene of the ctecal end of the appendix. It may also be caused by a faecal concretion which has escaped and remains behind. Most of the cases heal if they are left alone and kept clean. Should a concretion be the cause, it must be removed. Operation for ftecal fistula should not be under- taken too soon, and when it is performed the abdomen should be opened away from the fistu- lous opening. Hernia of.—In cases of csecal hernia the appen- dix is always present. The writer operated on a case of strangulated inguinal hernia some years ago where there was intense pain and vomiting, and with the herniated small intestine was the appendix tightly constricted. It occasional!}' happens that the appendix may be the onl}- portion of the bowel in the hernial sac. See also Hernia. Tuberculosis of.—This is not a very common aftection ; it cannot be distinguished from the ordinary cases imtil removed and examined. The writer removed a tuberculous appendix from a man aged thirty-five who had had repeated attacks of appendicitis. Six months later he had general peritoneal tuberculosis, which proved fatal. Typhoid Ulcers, etc.—Typhoid ulcers may occur in the appendix, and mnrej-oj^s disease may involve it secondarily from tiie cix>cum or ileum. Appetite (see also Chlorosis; Morphixo- MAXI.V AM) ALLIED DrUG HaBITS ; PiCA).