ALCOHOL 89 demonstrate its baneful action in early child- hood. During the years of active growth the retarding infltience of alcohol upon nutrition and the alcoholic bias are real dangers; ab- stinence has none. In childhood alcohol is neither required nor missed; the conditions which may call in the adult for its psychical and digestive assistance do not obtain. Although a limited allow^ance of l^eer or of wine may be iiarmless in itself, it should be rendered \m- necessary by an adequate diet. Total abstinence imtil the years of manhood has the recommenda- tion that it is almost protective against the risk of alcoholism in after-life. Alcohoi. in Disease.—The responsible ques- tion, " Should alcohol l)e prescribed ?" arises in every instance of illness, and must be finally decided on the merits of each case, but its solu- tion may be assisted by a study of the indica- tions special to the various clinical groups of diseases of children and of adults, and also of certain broad principles connected with the properties and the mode of action of the drug. Our guiding 2-)rinciple& in prescribing alcohol are based upon its virtues (1) as a stimulant, (2) as a sedative, (3) as a food, (4) as a protec- tion against infection. We may consider these modes of action apart from each other, but in practice they cannot be dissociated. (1) Alcoholic stimulation, being rapid but temporary, is suited for the prompt relief of remedial lie conditions, such as physical and mental shock, severe pain, faintness, cardiac failure, etc. Should, however, the affection not be purely momentary but of a more lasting kind, a single dose will not suffice, and we may be led to its continuous administration at regular intervals. This is the practice adopted in pneumonia, hyperpyrexia, malaria, and other acute attacks, and in them we administer it freely and without misgivings, knowing that the attack is likely to be of short duration. In diseases which run a long course this systematic administration is open to reserva- tions. Frequent repetition tends to lessen the stimulating effect, and if the dose should be in- creased the nutritive functions may suffer. If alcohol cannot be altogether avoided, it should be prescribed sparingly, and its administration regulated day by day to suit the fluctuating requirements. (2) Analogous considerations apply to the use of alcohol as a sedative and as a narcotic. A single dose may relieve a temporary state of nerve distress, and sleep, if it should be induced, will preclude its being repeated. But when the trouble is lasting or prone to recur, alcohol be- comes a complication rather than a help. Its sedative action quickly wears off by repetition, which tends to establish a craving for its stimulating effects. (3) Though essentially incomplete as a nutri- ment, alcohol is often in disease the only avail- able support. But it is restorative rather than sustaining, a fuel rather than a food, and not to be relied upon for any prolonged service. Genuine food - stuffs are needed as soon as digestion is re-established, and there is a risk lest alcohol should interfere with a revival of the normal functions of appetite and digestion. (4) Not least among its virtues is its ill- understood " protective " action. The relief of the shock produced by chemical poisons is due to its stimulating effect; but quite distinct from this agency is the relative immimity which alcohol confers against infection, and the relative protection which it affords against the action of microbes, toxins, and venoms introduced into the system. Tiiis protection is prolmbly not due to its neutralising effect upon the poisons, but rather to its influence in raising the resist- ance or blunting the susceptibility of the nervous mechanisms, or in retarding absorption or check- ing oxidation. This is an argument for the use of alcohol in the treatment of all toxfemia), and may perhaps help to explain the anomalous toleration for alcoliol peculiar to the toxajmic state As a general conclusion it may be stated that the greatest value is to be obtained from alcohol by reserving rather than by pushing its admin- istration, and by adapting the latter to the requirements as they arise rather than by following a rigid time-table irrespective of the patient's varying needs. To know how to do this effectually is one of the highest develop- ments of the art of nursing. The indications in diseases of infanc// and of early childhood may be considered in connection with four clinical groups. (1) Clinical emergencies, such as fits and convulsions, call for more active measures of treatment than alcohol. As a sedative for the exaggerated irritability of the nervous system alcohol is inferior to chloroform, chloral, and the bromides, and as a cardio-vascular stimulant it is less needed in infants, whose difficulties are respiratory rather than cardiac, than it is in adults. Nevertheless it may be useful where the stomach persistently rejects food, and when swallowing is impossible it may be injected into the bowel with milk. (2) Among the acute affections the exanthe- mata do not require its administration, unless they should be of a severe or malignant type ; and in all minor ailments it may be dispensed with. Although in childhood acute pneumonia usually recovers spontaneously, it has been a growing custom to give alcohol, as in the adidt, as a matter of routine. This is usually super- fluous, but probably does no harm within the short period covered bj' the disease. It is the lengthened use of alcohol which we should avoid. In the prostration of severe hroncho-jmeumonia and whooping-coug}i, alcohol may be essential. Diphtheria still calls for its assistance as a pro-