BRAIN, SURGERY OF 518 becoming perforated, and an abscess forming between the dnra mater and the petrous bone. The symptoms of subcranial abscess are local pain and tenderness on pressure, rigors, and, if the collection of pus be large, sufficient pressure may be exerted on the cortex to cause charac- teristic focal symptoms of spasm or paralysis. Where there is no open wound, or where such a wound has closed before the abscess has de- veloped, the scalp tissues over the site of the abscess are apt to become oedematous and swollen. This condition is known as " Pott's puffy tumour." The treatment consists in opening the abscess, either by trephining or removing loose pieces of bone. 2. Leptomeningitis.—Under this heading are included the different forms of inflammation of the subdural membranes, viz. the arachnoid and pia. As the surface of the brain is usually affected at the same time it should perhaps be called meningo-encephalitis. This form of meningitis may be limited by adhesions to a small area of the brain and membranes, and may give rise to symptoms pointing to such limitation, e.g. an adlaesion of membranes to bi-ain may give rise to Jacksonian epilepsy, the attack starting in some particular group of muscles (see p. 521). In the large majority of cases, however, meningo-encephalitis is diffused over a lai'ge area of the brain surface. It may occur in various degrees of intensity. (a) Acute Leptomeningitis. — Organisms may reach the membranes either directly through a wound of the skull and dura mater, or by one of the various channels previously mentioned. The intensity of the disease depends partly on the method of inoculation, the symptoms being more rapid and intense if there be direct con- tamination by open wound down to the meni- branes. It also depends on the virulence of the particular organisms introduced, the milder ones, such as the pneumococcus, not causing such a severe attack as the staphylococci and strepto- cocci which are more commonly found. There is intense hypergeniia of the inflamed surface, with small points of extravasation scattered over the surface of the pia mater. The subarachnoid space and ventricles usually are found to contain an excess of cerebro-spinal fluid which is turbid with lymph, blood, or pus, and which coagulates on being heated. The membranes are thickened and congested, the surface of the convolutions oedematous and flattened. The pia mater is covered with lymph, which tends particularly to collect in the sulci, and the brain substance itself shows evidences of softening and hyperjemia, the latter often accompanied by punctiform haemor- rhages. Symptoms.—In most cases the first symptoms appear about thirty-six or forty-eight hours after the injury. Severe headache, with a rising tem- perature and a full bounding pulse, are the earliest symptoms. The patient may feel chilly or have a definite rigor. Photophobia, A^omit- ing, muscular twitchings, delirium, and other nervous phenomena may follow, and bear witness to the intensely irritable condition of the brain. In the course of a few hours the symptoms will have advanced considerably: the pain in the head is extremely severe, the pupils are contracted, and squinting or optic neiu'itis may be noticed. The patient gradually gets weaker, worn out, and drowsy, and coma gradually supervenes. The pupils now become dilated and immobile, and other symptoms of compression of the brain hj excess of cerebro-spinal fluid, such as a slow, irregular pulse, stertorous breathing, paralysis, etc., may become noticeable before death. The meningitis is usually farther advanced at the site of injury than at other parts of the brain, the inflammatory process gradually spreading from the original site of infection (which is usually on the convexity) towards the base of the brain. The symptoms of meningitis of the base and of the convexity are somewhat different in some respects. In convexity meningitis there is more liability to convulsions, and these at first may be limited to certain groups of muscles, indicating a limited involvement of some of the centres in the Roland ic area. In hasal ineningitis optic neuritis comes on eai'ly and is intense, the head is retracted, and squinting, due to irritation or pressure on the nerves supplying the muscles of the eye, is of frequent occurrence. Treatment. — The treatment of true septic leptomeningitis is highly unsatisfactory. The patient should be kept in a cool, dark, and quiet room, and should not be allowed to talk. The diet should be low, and the bowels should be freely opened. The continuous appli- cation of cold to the shaA'en head or leeches are useful, and venesection may be tried if the patient be not too weak to stand such a line of treatment. Siirgical interference in the direc- tion of drainage by opening the subarachnoid space is probably quite useless when the disease has made any progress, still it may relieve intra- cranial pressure, and will, at least, do no harm. In the earliest stages the thorough cleansing and draining of any septic head wound is a part of the roiitine practice, but this is more of tlie nature of prevention than of cure. (Ij) Chronic leptomeningitis is apt to occur as the result of traumatism, and is often associated in these cases with a syphilitic history. Like chronic pachymeningitis, it is accompanied by localised pain in the head, and is apt to be followed by traumatic epilepsy. Counter-irrita- tion by blistering, and in epileptic cases trephin- ing, are the most important forms of ti'eatment.