ABDOMEN, INJURIES OF 13 rectum. In this way it is possible to examine the whole intestinal tract. The stomach may be similarly examined if the test is applied through the (xssophagus instead of through the rectum. Perforations of the stomach and intestines must be repaired after the manner already considered in injuries of these viscera, without parietal wound. But in gunshot wounds, lai'ge and multiple perforations are the rule, rather than the exception, and excision of the injured gut is commonly required. Two feet, or more, of intestine may be excised if it contains several perforations which would take a long time to suture separately, and it is quicker and safer to remove a considerable portion of intestine than to perform a double enterectomy. The greater need of enterectomy in wounds of the mesenteric border of the gut, because of the liability to gangrene, has already been referred to. Even on the convex border of the gut, wounds above two inches in length would probably demand enterectomy. In simple suture of intestinal wounds it is desirable to bring the edges together transversely to the long axis of the bowel, in order to prevent any tendency to stricture of the gut at the seat of injuiy. (For the further considei'ation of the repair of visceral injuries, I'eference may be made to the subject of contusions associated with injury to the viscera.) The whole of the visceral wounds having been satisfactorily dealt with, any final cleansing of the peritoneal cavity is carried out, and the wound is closed, with or without drainage, according to the amount and character of the damage done. In most cases of gunshot wound it will be wise to drain ; in stab wounds it is frequently unnecessary. Nothing has been said of the removal of a bullet or other foreign body. When embedded in the parietes or the viscera, foreign bodies do not necessarily give rise to any mischief; but their removal is desirable, if it can be accom- plished without adding to the risk of operation. In the localisation of metallic substances the Rontgen rays are very valuable. After-treatment.—A hypodermic injection of morphine may be given for the relief of pain, and to lessen peristalsis. If the stomach or upper part of the small intestine has been wounded, the patient sliould be fed by nutrient rectal injections for the first two or three days—only hot water, or brandy and water, being allowed by the mouth. After this period some of the various peptonised foods shovikl be the first articles of diet by the mouth. Solid food may be given towards the end of a week. In cases of wound of the lower part of the intestine, it is not necessary to be so I'igid in the exclusion of food by the mouth, unless there is much vomiting. Flatulent distension is common, and fi;>r this a turpentine enema affords great relief. Slioidd symptoms of incipient peritonitis appear, saline piu-ges should be given as early as possil)le, in order to aid peritoneal absorption. The treat- ment of the drainage-tube and the abdominal wound does not require special mention. 3. Traumatic Peritonitis This is a clinical division of the whole sul)ject of Peritonitis. Etiology.—Traumatic peritonitis is essen- tially an acute infective process of bacteriological origin. It is true that a plastic exiidation occurs, after any breach of surface of the peri- toneum, which frequently appears to be inde- pendent of any discoverable organism. To such an inflammation—if we may be allowed the expression — some observers apply the term "aseptic peritonitis." It is mainly reparative in action, gives rise to no symptoms, and need not be considered here ; we must leave it to the pathologists as to whether " repair " or " inflam- mation " is the better term to use under such circumstances. The organisms most usually found in association with traumatic peritonitis are the Bacillus coli communis, the Streptococcus pyogenes, and the Staphylococcus aureus or albus. The Bacillus coli communis is normally found in the intestine, and causes most of the cases of peritonitis in which the infective process comes from within. It is by no means necessary for the intestine to be wounded in order that the organism may escape, for it can find its way through the unljroken wall of the gut, under circumstances which have resulted in a dimiiui- tion of the vitality of the intestine. Tliis may account for the occurrence of peritonitis from contusion of the abdomen without any recognis- able injury to any of the viscera, and for cases following the extravasation of such fluids as bile and Ijlood into the peritoneal cavity —fluids which in themselves are germ-free, but afford excellent cultivation media for the development of organisms which may be adventitiously intro- duced. The Streptococcus pyogenes, and the Staphylo- coccus aureus or albus, are commonly associ- ated with those forms of jjeritonitis in which the infective process comes from without, whether it be by a stab or gunshot wound, or by the surgeon's finger or instruments during operation. Of these organisms the Streptococcus pyogenes is the most virulent. Classification.—It would, doulitless, be more scientific to make a bacteriological classification, but as we are dealing with a clinical variety of peritonitis it will be more convenient to adopt a. form of nomenclature founded on the clinical and pathological aspects of the disease. The subject will therefore be considered as (a) Localised Traumatic Peritonitis. (6) Diffuse Traumatic Peritonitis.