404 BLADDER, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF (b) Sounding and Catheterisation. — When examining the interior of the bladder with a metal sound or a catheter, the instrument should be introduced by the aid of vision into the meatus, when a finger in the vagina guides it into the bladder. If, with the bladder above the brim, the progress of the instrument is arrested by any body (e.g. the fostal head) press- ing against the symphysis, the genu-pectoral position shoiild be adopted and a silver male instrument should be used. (c) Palpation.—Cocaine is applied within the urethra, or a general antesthetic is given. Then, using the lithotomy posture for choice, and with strict aseptic precautions, the urethra is gradu- ally dilated by inserting the little finger, or by passing a series of Hegar's dilators. The index- finger is then passed into the bladder, and, with the second finger in the vagina and the other hand on the abdomen, the whole bladder can be palpated within and without. There is danger of causing permanent incontinence if the urethra be dilated beyond certain limits, namely, 1 in. in diameter in women ; f in. in young women ; and in. in girls. (d) Inspection.—A small tubular speculum is passed through the dilated urethra, the lithotomy position being used. When the hips of the patient are raised on cushions 12 or 16 inches above the level of her shoulders, air rushes into the bladder and balloons it. Reflected light is thrown in, and by moving the speculum the posterior and lower portion of the bladder can be inspected, the openings of the ureters being easily seen. In order to obtain a view of the anterior and upper portions of the bladder it is necessary to employ the electric cystoscope {vide Cystoscope). (e) Catheterisation of the Ureters.—When the finger has been passed into the bladder, the vesical openings of the ureters can be felt about an inch from the neck of the bladder, the ureteric ligament extending between them. A fine catheter can be passed beside the finger and directed into either ureter. When this has been done, the urine from the catheterised ureter can be collected in one vessel, while, with a second catheter, the urine from the other ureter can be drawn from the bladder for comparison. Another and easier method is to pass the ureteric catheter into the bladder through a tubular speculum, and, using reflected light, to insert it into the ureter by inspection. Treatment.—The anatomical relations of the female bladder permit of certain methods of surgical treatment not available in the male. Thus, in cystitis, dilatation of the urethra permits of drainage for a time, which can be indefinitely prolonged by the use of a self-retaining catheter, with which a urinal can be worn. If more complete rest for the bladder be desirable, a vesico-vaginal fistula may be made by cutting- through the anterior vaginal wall, with knife or cautery, on to an instrument passed into the bladder per urethram. When the cystitis has disappeared, the artificial fistula can be closed by a plastic operation. Again, small calculi and foreign bodies are easily removed through the dilated urethra, stones of larger size demanding preliminary crushing. Still larger calculi and some neoplasms are easily removed by vaginal cystotomy. The wound may be closed at once if the bladder is healthy, or may be left open for a time by way of drainage, and closed sub- sequently. Stones of the largest size and extensive neoplasms are best dealt with by suprapubic cystotomy. Where the dilated urethra does not suffice it may be stated, as a general rule, that surgeons will prefer the suprapubic route to the interior of the bladder, whether for drainage or for the removal of calculi, foreign bodies, and neoplasms. Gynse- cologists, on the other hand, will prefer to reach the bladder through an incision in the anterior vaginal wall. Bla.nC-ma,ng^e. See Invalid Feeding {Prepared Foods, Food in Convalescence). Bla.SteiTia,. — Formative substance; un- differentiated embryonic tissue. Bla.S'tOCyst.—The chorionic vesicle, with its contents, covered with trophoblast; the blastodermic vesicle. See Embryology. BIctStoderiTl.—The membrane or vesicle (blastodermic) on or in which the embryo is developed; it has a bilaminar or two-layered stage (when it consists of ectoderm, and endo- derm), and a trilaminar (when the mesoderm exists between the ectoderm and the endoderm). See FcETUS and Ovum, Development of. BlastomereS.—The nucleated cleavage cells into which the impregnated ovum divides; the experimental destruction or removal of one or more of these spheres is called hlastomerotomy or hlastotomy. BlastomyceteS. See Micro-Organisms (Yeasts). BlastOprolepsiS. —Acceleration of development. Blastulcl. See Blastocyst. BlaudS Pill. See Iron {Pilula Ferri). Bleaching^ Powder. See Chlorine {Chlorinated Lime); Trades, Dangerous (6'Aem- ical Trades). "Bleeder." — A person suffering from hajmophilia or the htemorrhagic diathesis. See HjiMOPHiLiA; Joints, Diseases of {Bleeders' Joint). Bleeding'. See Arteries, Diseases of; Brain, Surgery of {Intracranial Haemorrhage);