168 ANEURYSM suddenness of its formation, the quantity of blood lost, and the rate at which it escapes, all vary, and the symptoms vary in proportion. For the slighter cases the term " leaking" aneurysm is convenient, whilst " ruptured" is used for the more severe. The physical signs of leaking or rupture into a cavity are those of slow or rapid acciimulation of fluid in it; whilst bleeding into a canal may be revealed by escape of blood from an orifice. When the leaking or rupture occurs into the substance of a limb, or other solid part, the physical signs vary in degree but not in kind. They are most severe (as also are the symptoms) when a considerable free opening forms suddenly between the sac and lax unmatted connective tissue around. Blood accumulates in the tissues round the aneurysm and forces its way along the areolar planes till stopped by the resistance of the tissues, aided by clothing; the cavity round the sac enlarges till similarly limited. Except that the blood has escaped from an aneurysm, there is no difference between this state of matters and the hsematoma which follows upon ruptures of arteries. The limb swells greatly and diffusely, chiefly in the neigh- bourhood of the sac; it is tense, does not pit, and feels heavy and dead. The sac is no longer to be felt, there is no pulsation, thrill, or bruit. Arterial supply and venous return are greatly impeded beyond the hsematoma; there is no pulse in the arteries, the part is cold and pale, marbled by full veins, perhaps oedematous. Shortly, the physical signs are — sudden and rapid swelling about the aneurysm with loss of its outline and pulsation, and obstruction to the circulation. Moist gangrene of the part may ensue upon a diff"use hsematoma; but it is surprising what serious wounds of large arteries coupled with hsematomata stop short of this. After a period of great doubt and anxiety, the limb slowly warms and evidences of circulation reappear in the digits; the swelling is gradually absorbed, becoming more and more limited to the neigh- bourhood of the aneurysm, and as the htematoma becomes circumscribed, pulsation, bruit, and perhaps thrill reappear—not in the original sac, but in the connective tissue capsule, which has formed around the extravasation. Sooner or later, bruising may appear. In the case of less difl'use heematomata there may never be any anxiety as to the life of the part, and the hsematoma soon becomes circum- scribed. The rupture may be evidenced only by more or less pain, enlargement and blurring of the aneurysm, with less obvious pulsation. Or the leaking may be slow and continuous and its signs slowly induced. Extravasation of blood is often accompanied by fever, a symptom very likely to mislead in doubtful cases. In a case of aneurysm in Hunter's canal which ruptured after treatment with Esmarch's bandage, the patient died with symptoms of septicseniia (Univ. Coll. Uosp. Rep. 1878). Untreated, a circumscribed arterial hsematoma tends to increase and rupture. It may suppurate. 2. Spontaneous Cure.—The natural cure of aneurysm consists in the formation of suflicient clot to fill the sac and the artery. As would be expected, this spontaneous cure is much more common in cases of saccular aneurysm than in fusiform, owing to the free circulation and associated absence of rest in the sac of the latter. Occasionally a complete cure is thus effected. In very rare cases a spontaneous cure may be directly induced by the accidental blocking of xhe mouth of the sac or of the artery by an embolus of clot detached from the sac. A similar effect is thought by some to have been produced by pressure of the sac on the artery above or below the sac-mouth ; but many doubt that this occurs, and refer the result rather to spread of thrombosis into the vessels. The development of one aneurysm above another may so depress the circulation as to lead to the cure of the lower aneurysm. A limited extravasation about the neck of a sac is said to have brought about a cure. The above act by inducing stagnation in the sac; but inflammation round about a sac may cause arteritis and thrombosis of the artery whence it springs. Lastly, spontaneous cure may be effected by sloughing away of the whole aneurysm. The signs of spiontaneous cure are:—More or less rapid hardening of the whole sac, the out- line remaining definite; loss of pulsation and bruit; in some cases—especially sudden—great circulatory difficulties, and even dry gangrene, may ensue; the pulse beyond is lost. The sac should shrink steadily ; it may cause great pain by pressure or traction on a nerve. Complications during the Course of an Aneurysm.—1. Cellulitis and suppuration about a sac are rare. No instance occurred among 142 cases from the consecutive reports of four hospitals, going back twenty-seven and twenty- six years in the case of two. It is said that infection is predisposed to by rapid increase amid loose connective tissue, and by sudden coagulation of the contents of the sac; it seems more likely that swelling and clotting result from commencing inflammation. Usually infection has been connected with the application of a ligature in the neighbour- hood, with injection, electrolysis, etc. ; some- times it has followed rough handling or other injury; sometimes there has been no discoverable cause other than that the sac and its surrovmd- ings necessarily form a locus minoris resistentise. Gangrene of distal parts (moist and dry) may result (1) from pressure of a rapidly enlarging sac, usually becoming diffused upon veins and, to a less extent, upon arteries; (2) upon rapid coagulation blocking not only the sac and its