APHASIA 237 lie is told to repeat, or to road aloud ; but, in addition, the j^ower of understanding spcjken speech is sometimes (always, according to Dejerine) impaired, though usually only in a very slight degree ; the power of understanding- complicated written passages is sometimes (? al- ways) impaired ; and there is usually, though not necessarily, agraphia, the defect in writing 1 icing usually jjroportionate to the defect in s{)eaking. Even when the intelligence is sufficiently intact to enable the jjatient to appreciate the nature of the test, he is usually (though 1 do not think invariably) unable to correctly indicate the number of syllaljles in a word (Proust-Lichtheim test). Cases of cortical motor-vocal aphasia differ very notably in the degree of their severity. In many cases of aphasia in which the patient is alisolutely unable to make use of intellectual language, he retains the use of those emotional expressions ("Oh!" "Oh dear!" "Oh my!" "By Jove!" etc.) which in his particular case have become mere explosive or I'cHcx utterances, devoid of any real meaning or intellectual value. It is important to remember that the mono- syllables yci< and no may be used either reflexly or intellectually; as Ross well puts it, " The unit of emotional language is, so far as it is expressed in vocalisation, an exclamation or an interjectional word or phrase, but the unit of intellectual language is a proposition, and if the monosyllabic reply of an aphemic patient possess any speech value, it must be equivalent to a distinct proposition." It is supposed by some authorities that in those cases of aphasia in which emotional expressions are retained, they are stored up, as it were, in, and discharged From, the inactive motor-vocal speech centre on the unafifected (" non-driving ") side of the brain, or in some lower centre, say in the pons Varolii or medulla oblongata. In some cases of motor- vocal aphasia the patient retains the power of using a certain expression or sentence only. In some cases the recurring utterance is an expres- sion which has become habitual to him, i.e. is automatic : in other cases, the expression or sentence which is retained is one which ap- parently was last used, or was just al)Out to be used, when the patient was attacked witli the aphasia. " It is not improbable that words spoken, or about to be spoken, during a period of great excitement, will leave permanent traces on the organisation of the brain, which renders tiiem liable to be subsequently uttered as inter- jectional phrases during emotional states " (Ross). Further, in some cases of motor-vocal aphasia tlie patient can, in singing, more or less clearly articulate and pronounce words which he is unable to speak. In cases of motor-vocal apluisia, whether cortical or subcortical, right-sided hemiplegia is usually present. In rare cases, in which the arterial branch which supplies Broca's con- volution is alone plugged, there is no motor paralysis, except perhaps a temporary paralysis (due to temporary shock and disturbance of the cii'culation) in the face and arms, and it may even be in the leg on the opposite side. The Chief Chakactehistics op Word-Blinu- NEss (Alexia ok Visual Aphasia).—In typical and marked cases of word-blindness (inability to understand written and printed language) the patient is able to see quite well, in other words, central vision is usually unimpaired, though right-sided bilateral homonymous hemi- anopsia is often present; but he is unable t(j iniderstand written speech characters. He is in the position of a person who is asked to read an iniknown tongue, written in symbols (letters and words) which he has never seen before. In word-blindness, as in other forms of aphasia, the severity of the aphasic defect varies greatly in different cases. In some cases the patient is unable to recognise and name the individual letters; in other cases he can name some, or it may be almost all of the individual letters, but he is unable to read condiinations of letters (words and sentences) ; in others he can read some words (combinations of letters), but he is unable to read (name) the individual letters of which they are composed. In some cases the patient can read figures ; in others he cannot. In some cases the patient is unable to name objects ; but this, which is undoubtedly in some cases a form of visual aphasia, is not, strictlj' speaking, a form of ?<'orcZ-blindness. In some cases the ability to read music is retained ; in others it is lost. In some cases the functions of the other speech centres (auditory and motor-vocal si^eeeh centres) are impaired, though prob;d:)ly rarely in a, marked degree ; in others, unaffected. The clinical characteristics of subcortical {pure, isolated, or subpictorial) wo^'d-blindness.—In sub- cortical word-blindness the " tvay in " for visual speech impjressions is blocked ; consequeiatly the patient is miable to understand written speech or to read aloud. [The " l)lock" is situated between the half-vision centres and the visual speech centre, and it is important to note that subcortical word-blindness is only produced when the fibres passing from both half-vision centres are implicated. Complete destruction of the fibres passing from one half-vision centre to the visual speech centre does not produce word- blindness ; under such circumstances the patient receives the (visual) information, which is neces- sary to enable him to read, through the half- vision centre and the fibres which are sound (miaftected).] In cases of subcortical word- blindness the patient can, however, write spontaneously and from dictation ; Init he can- not, after an interval has elapsed, read what he has written ; though in some cases he is able to decipher the meaning of written speech (which he cannot read) by tracing the letters over with