123 AMPUTATIONS Amputations. Introduction . . . . .123 Methods USED IN Amputating . . .123 Circular Method Modified Circular Method Flap Method Racket-shaped or Oval Method Amputations through the Lower Ex- tremity . . . . . .124 Amputations of the Foot Amputations of Toes Tarso-Metatarsal Amjmtaticms Hey. Lisfranc Mid-Tarsal Amputations . . .125 Chopart's Amputations at the Ankle-Joint . .125 Syme Mackenzie Pirogoff Amputations through the Lower Third op the Leg . . . . .125 Teale Amputations below the Knee-Joint . 125 Seat of Election Amputations at the Knee-Joint . .126 Stephen Smith's Method Amputations through the Condyles of the Femur . . . . .126 Garden's Amputation . . . .126 Gritti-Stokes' Amputation . . .126 Amputations at the Hip-Joint . .126 Amputations of the Upper Extremity . 127 IIa7id Amputations at the Wrist-Joint . . 127 Amputations through the Forearm . 127 Amputations at the Shoulder-Joint . 128 Amputation of the Shoulder Girdle . 128 See also Artificial Limbs ; Joints, Diseases of. By ainputation we iinderstiind the removal, either for injury or disease, of a portion or the whole of a limb. In performing such an operation the follow- ing points must be kept in view :— (1) To endanger the life of the patient as little as possible. (2) To minimise the mutilation of the patient's limb. (3) To obtain a useful stump. The first and second objects are attained by amputating as far from the trunk as possible. Regarding the third head more must be said. In amputating through the lower extremity the end to be kept in view is that the stump may be of use for progression afterwards, conse- quently it must be able to bear the weight of the patient. The end of the bone must be covered by sound tissue. The cicatrix must be as far as possible out of the way of injury; preferably it shoiild be on the posterior aspect. No nerves must be involved in the cicatrix, otherwise neuromata may form and give rise to a painful and tender stump. Amputations through the upper extremity should, if possible, be avoided, as no artificial substitute of a satisfactory nature can replace the upper extremity. When possible, excision should be performed, but if amputation is found necessary as little as possible should be removed. In the lower ex- tremity length may be sacrificed to get a useful stump, but in the upper extremity an effort must be made to save as much as possible. This is especially important in the hand. The result may not be beautiful, but it is useful, and in this connection I think use is beauty. Methods used in Amputating Circular Method. — In its crudest sense this method consisted in chopping off the limlj— skin, muscles, and bone being severed at one level—followed by the application of pitch, or of the actual cautery, to arrest the hemorrhage. This rude method was gradually improved upon, and reached its highest stage of develop- ment in the triple incision of Benjamin Bell. Bell's method consisted in making a circular cut through the skin and subcutaneous tissues. The cuff of skin thus formed was then retracted and the muscles divided at a higher level. Lastly, the muscles were retracted still farther and the bone divided. By this method an excellent covering for the end of the bone was obtained. The above method can be most easily carried out where the limb is cylindrical, e.g. above the wrist or through the upper arm. Where the limb is conical a modification of the above method must be adopted. Modified Circular Method.—The body, as a whole, with the exception of a small area above the wrist and the upper arm, may be regarded as composed of cones rather than of cylinders. At the cylindrical portions of the limb Bell's triple incision may be used with advantage, but Syme's modified circular method is preferable in amputating through a conical portion of a limb. Two skin flaps are made, and after dissecting these flaps up, the muscles are divided circularly at a higher level. The muscles arc retracted and the bone divided at a still higher level. Flap Method.—Flaps may be made in one of two ways, either V)y transfixion or by dissection. Transfixion is carried out by passing a long knife through the soft tissues of the limb, and cutting from within outwards. This is a rapid method, but requires great manual dexterity. It was much used before the introduction of anaesthetics. Since that date flaps made by dissection have to a large extent replaced the method by transfixion.