BED-SORES 367 the separation of sloughs, and to promote the growth of granulations. It has been suggested that tlie slough should be incised and packed underneath with iodoform gauze. Other surgeons prefer, in moderately strong patients, to excise the slough, scrape the remaining sore, and then sterilise it with pure carbolic acid. Skin grafting is often useful in covering in the large raw surfaces left after the sepai-ation or removal of sloughs. BgG. *SVe Myiasis {Insect Stings and Bites); StingiNOi Insects. Beef. See Atrophy, Infantile (Treatment); Diet {Beef Juices); Invalid Feeding {j\feat Juices, Meat Broths, Beef Teas, Beef Essence, Minced Beef, Beef Quenelles); Post-mortem Methods {Bacteriological Investigations, Beef Broth Cultures). Beef. See AlcohoI; ; Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis ; ToxicoLiHiv {(Jhronic Arse HI ml I'oisoning). Beetles.—The larviu of coleopterous in- sects may be a cause of intestinal symptoms. See Myiasis. Beinha.lter.—The apparatus or "crutch" for holding the patient's legs apart (in the litho- tomy position) in operations on the perineum and neighbourhood. Belae FrUCtuS. — P>ael Fruit is not official in tiie Uritish Pharmacopoeia, but is so in its Indian and Colonial Addendum (1900). It is the fruit of yEgle inarmelos, a rutaceous plant, and is given in the form of Extractum Belo' Liiiuidum (dose, 1 to 2 fl. dr.) as an astrin- gent in diarrhea and dysentery. Bela.lp. See Therapeutics, Health Re- SdKTs (Sirit-.evhmd). Bets'! um. See \ix\.^E(nx)(i\ {Holland and Belgium). Bell Sound. See Pleura, Diseases of {I'neuuwthora.v) ; Typhoid Fever {Sym}-)toms, Distended Colon). Bell's Ma,nia.. — Typhomania, as de- scribed by Dr. Luther P'ell. See Delirious Mania. Bell's Paralysis. See Facial Nerve, ]*AI!AI,YS1S Ol'. Belladonna. See also Analgesics and Anodynes ; Antispasmodics ; Drug Eruptions ; Pharmacology ; Prescribing ; Puerperium, Physiology {Lactosuria) ; Purpura {Toxic); Toxicology {Organic Poisons, Belladonna) ; IIrination, Disorders of; Whooping - Cough {Treatment, Medicinal).—Both the leaves and | the root of Atroj^a Belladonna, the Deadly Nightshade, are official. Belladonna, Folia contains two alkaloids. Atro- pine and Hyoscyamine. PrejMrations—1. Ex- tractum Belladoniiaj Viride. Dose—-^-1 gr. 2. Succus Belladoniue. Dose—5-15 m. Belladonna Radix contains the same alkaloids as the leaves. Prepa.rations—1. Extractum Belladonna) Liquidum. 2. Tinctura Bella- donnfe. Dose—5-15 m. 3. Extractum Bella- donnse Alcoholicum. Dose—;^-l gr. 4. Supposi- toria Belladonnte, each containing gr. of the alkaloids. 5. Linimentum Belladomifc. 6. Unguentum Belladonna'. 7. Emplastrum Bella- donufe. Atropine is obtained both from the leaves and the root. It consists of colourless crystals, soluble 1 in 500 of cold, and 1 in 58 of boiling water, and freely in alcohol, ether, chloroform, and oleic acid. Dcm—Tr^-o-jg^iy gr. Prepara- tion—Unguentum Atropina3. Atropine Sulphas is soluble 2 in 1 of water. Dose—2oo"i?o 8'^"- Preparations—1. Liquor Atropinfe Sulphatis, 1 per cent. Dose—i-1 m. 2. Lamella Atropin;e, each containing j-yVo Ilomatropince Ilydrohromidum, a derivative of Atropine, is a white crystalline powder, soluble 1 in 6 of water. Dose — iro'-iu Prepara- tion—Lamellfe Homatropinfe, each containing -i_ or 100 f^^' The uses of Atropine and of all the Belladonna preparations depend largely on their paralysing effect on the terminations of almost all varieties of nerves. Secretions are diminished and pain lessened. Intestinal peristalsis is increased by paralysis of the splanchnic nerves. The pupil dilates because of the action on the third nerve. The muscle of the bronchial tubes is relaxed, bronchial secretion diminished, and cough checked. As a result of vagus and vaso-motor paralysis the pulse quickens and the blood-pres- sure falls. Stinmlation of the central nervous system is only seen when too large doses have been given. The liniment and the plaster are applied externally to alleviate pain in neuralgia, muscular rheumatism, luml)ago, rheumatoid arthritis, etc. Direct application is helpful also in local sweatings, especially of the feet. One part of the green extract mixed with three parts of glycerine is used for application to the breasts in the puerperium when it is desired to check the secretion of milk. The plaster may be em- plo^^ed for the same purpose. Pr;ecordial jjain is greatly relieved In- application of the plaster, especially if due to fxnictional cardiac conditions in neurotic subjects. For ophthalmoscopic ex- amination the pupil is dilated by placing on the eye a drop of Liquor Atropine Sulphatis, or, better, of Homatropine (1 per cent in water), the latter being less irritating and its effect of much shorter duration. Atropine is also used locally in various eye diseases, for example in iritis, to prevent the formation of adhesions, and after injuries to avoid