219 ANTHROPOLOGY otlier hand, if it be permissible to postulate a great antiquity for man, if it be admitted that evolution and changes in bodily characters may have proceeded at a more rapid rate in pre- historic times, and if the evolution of new animal species be conceded, then the nionogenist theory is the more probable. Now, if the original unity of the human race be regarded as likely, then tiie further question of the original home of man may be considered, and we may ask from which Continent as a centre did the various races pass out to cover the whole earth. America and Europe seem to be excluded, and Australia (although it now contains some markedly aboriginal tribes low down in the scale of civilisation) can only with difficulty be regarded as probable ; so that it would seem that either Africa or the southern part of Asia must be regarded as the ci'adle of the race, and the arguments in favour of the latter are slightly stronger than those that support the former. With Ethnology or the various races of man- kind this article is not specially concerned (see " Ethnology "), nor with their languages {Lin- guistics) ; but it may be stated generally that neither Ethnology nor Philology have satis- factorily settled any of the major problems of Anthropology. It is necessary, however, to devote some sentences to Physical. Anthropology or the description of the characteristics of the human body, and especially of the skeleton, in their relation to the various races of mankind and to animals lower down in the zoological series. The colour of the skin, and particularly the occurrences of patches of darker skin in certain areas of the body {e.g. the sacral) and in certain peoples {e.g. the Chinese) as a racial birth-mark, call for investigation; the naked- eye and microscopic characters of the hair (as to colour, distribution, straightness, foi'm on section, etc.) are important anthi'opological data; the extraordinary hypertrophy of the subcutaneous fat in the gluteal i-egions (steato- pygia) of Bushwomen is a noteworthy racial peculiarity ; and the peculiarities of the eyes (colour, cpicanthic fold, size of orbit, etc.), of the ears (aural index, lobule, helical margin, Darwinian tubercle, etc.), the nose (nasal index), and teeth require to be ascertained by the anthropologist. The racial differences of the internal organs, with the exception of the brain, have been little investigated ; but the muscu- lature (especially the muscles of expression) has been to some extent inquired into (Chudzinski). Much work has been done in relation to the skeleton, and particularly the cranium, in its anthropological relations. Whether we view the skull from above (the norma vcrticalis), from the side (norma lateralis), from the front (norma facialis), from behind (norma occipitalis), or from below (noi-ma basilaris), we find in it characters which at once distinguish it from the skull of the anthropoid apes. Further, various races of mankind may be distinguished from each other by the differences in their norms (see W. L. H. Duckworth's Morpholoiiy and Anthro- pology, Figs. 27G-299, pp. 463-469, 1904). More accurate njethods of estimating cranial differences are obtained by mensuration. The mean cranial capacity among Europeans is 1500 cb. cms., and a skull with such a capacity is called megacephalic. When the capacity falls below 1350 cb. cms. it is microcephalic (as among extinct Tasmanians, Australian tribes, Andamanese, etc.); but if between 1350 and 1450 cb. cms.it is mesocephalic (Negroes, Malays, etc.). The greatest width of the head multiplied by 100 and divided by the length gives the cephalic index : if this sink below 75 the head is elongated or dolichocephalic (Australian abori- gines, Negroes, etc.); if it rise above 80 it is brachycepiialic (Mongols, Lapps, Malays); while indices between 75 and 80 give the mesati- cephalic type. Other indices, such as the facial, the maxillary, the nasal, the orbital, and the palatal, are measured, and the degree of projec- tion of the face in front of the cranium can be estimated. Skulls showing marked facial pi-o- jection are characteristic of the lower races, and are termed prognathous; in most Europeans the projection is slight (orthognathous). The pelvic index is the percentage relation between the antero-posterior and the transverse diameters of the pelvic brim; European races have an index below 90 (platypellic), while aboriginal Australians and others have an index above 95 (dolichopellic), the Negro pelvis being inter- mediate (mesatipellic). Many other indices {e.g. those of the limb bones) are calculated for com- parative purposes, but the above will illustrate some of the methods employed in Physical Anthropology. Anthropometry (Criminal).— The exact measurements of the human body are now used for the identification of criminals {Bertillon System), and anthropometry now forms a part of criminal anthropology. Alphonse Bertillon (born in 1853) invented and introduced the method (called Bertillonage) into Paris in 1880 for the recognition of "old offenders." In all cases the length of the head, its breadth, the length of the left middle finger, of the left foot, and of the left forearm were taken (the left side was chosen as being less variable), as well as the colour of the eyes, etc. Errors are possible, so Galton has added identification by means of finger-prints, for these have been found to vary greatly in different individuals and to be very characteristic. In some places {e.g. Bengal) finger-prints alone have been found to be sufficient. Anti-.—Ariti-, in its meaning of "opposed to," is prefixed to many words, such as anfi- arthritic, antihilions, anticachectic, anticatarrhal, anticolic, anticonstipiation, anti-icteric, aritidia-