APPENDICITIS 249 •odour and yellow or dark in colour; there is paralysis of the l)n\vels, the patient passes neither flatus nor tVeees, and the abdomen becomes much distended ; in some cases the meteorism is not marked ; there is retention of urine. As a rule the temperature is not high, it may even be subnormal; the pulse is small and rapid, and the surface of the body is cold and sweating. The patient has the typical abdominal face, anxious shrunken features, pinched nose and sunken eyes; the voice becomes weak, the tongue dry and red—and the patient dies in three or four days from exhaustion. General abdominal distension is always a serious symptom in appendicitis and is evidence of commencing paralysis of the bowels and perhaps general peritonitis ; but if there is any evidence of peristalsis, if borljorygmus occurs, there is usually no general peritonitis, and the outlook is favourable. in the so-called fulminating cases, where the peritonitis is generalised from the first, the symptoms set in most severely,—intense pain, very often an initial rigor, great rigidity of the abdominal muscles, temperature not much elevated, but the pulse small and i-apid. The abdominal face early appears and the patient is evidently collapsed — vomiting is persistent and of a dark colour—patient usually dies in two or three days. In such cases im- mediate operation may occasionally save a life. JtKruRRENT OR Relai'sinu AppicNDicms.—When a person has had two or more attacks of ap- pendicitis, we speak of it as " recurrent or re- lapsing appendicitis " — usually these attacks are never very severe, though they have the ordinai-y symptoxns, such as sudden and severe abdominal pain which soon becomes localised to tlie right iliac region, the point of greatest tenderness being at M'Burney's point, nausea or vomiting and elevation of temperature with rapid pulse. Not infrequentl}' a tumour forms in the right iliac fossa, which disappears with the subsidence of the pain, tenderness, and fever, to reappear again at the next attack. In some cases months may elapse before another attack comes on, and in the interval the patient is perfectly well—these are the true recurirnt cases. In other cases the attacks ai'e uuich more frequent, every few weeks, and between attacks the patient is out of sorts, has constipation or diarrhoea, digestive troubles, flatulence and occasional colicky pains, pain on pressure over M'Burney's point, and this pain is increased by exercise and over-exertion of any kind. In some eases the patient is imable to lie on his left side without a sense of dragging pain, in these cases the appendix may often be felt—this is the true rclapsmg or chronic ap- pendicitis. It is stated by Fitz that 11 per cent of all cases are of the recurrent or i-elapsing type, others place it much higher, 22-23 per cent (Kraft't, Hawkins). In the cases collected by the writer, over 50 per cent had had previous attacks. BiAiiNOSis.—Appendicitis is the most common inflammatory att'ection of the right side of the abdomen. It is the rare exception that peritonitis in the male is due to anything else than appendicitis. According to Kraft't only 2 per cent of peritoneal inflanuuations in the male are not due to appendicitis—the excep- tions being volvulus, perforation in other parts of the intestine, e.;/. duodenum, stomach, etc., intussusceptions, constriction by band, twists, mesenteric thrombus, etc. Einhorn reports that in a hundred deaths from peri-typhlitis, ninety-one had their origin in the appendix, nine were due to perforation of ca3cum from stricture. Any affection which sets in with sudden and severe abdominal pain, shortly afterwards localised to the right iliac fossa, with fever and tenderness over the region of the appendix, with or without nausea and vomiting, is most likely to be appendicitis. Typhoid fever has been mistaken for appendi- citis. Typhoid fever is preceded by malaise, there is no sudden severe pain, and the tender- ness is not so marked in the right iliac fossa. In persons who have had previous attacks of appendicitis, the diagnosis may be difficult, and cases of atypical typhoid fever have been operated on for appendicitis. Abscesses in con- nection with the ciecum after typhoid fever cannot be diagnosed from abscess following upon appendix disease. Perforation from typhoid ulcer occurs after the disease has lasted some time and typhoid would have been recognised by the blood reaction, eruption, etc. Biliary and Renal Colic.—This may lie mis- taken for ajDpendieitis. In biliary colic the pain is nearer the epigastrium and vomiting is a feature ; there is often tenderness beneath the costal border, and history of previous attacks and jaundice. In renal colic the pain radiates down the ureters to testicle, and there may be tenderness over the kidney. In neither is there fever. An inflamed and distended (jalldjladder may simulate appendicitis. The writer operated on such a case: patient was seized with sudden and severe pain, tenderness in right iliac region, fever and vomiting, and a tumour was found in a line between the umbilicus and anterior superior spine. On opening the alidomen in the iisual way an inflamed distended gall- bladder presented itself, which was opened and some stones removed, and the patient recovered rapidly. Xeuralgia of the lumbo-abdominal muscles has been mistaken for appendicitis, as has also coxalgia. The paresis of the bowels which ac- companies a severe case of appendicitis has been I frequently mistaken for intestinal obstruction