APHASIA 236 tory speech centre is cut off from the external world, but its internal activity remains, and it is still in (direct functional) connection with the other speech centres (motor and visual), and with the other centres throughout the cerebral cortex, which, inclusive with it, we may, for the sake of convenience, collectively term the seat of consciousness, intelligence, and the will. Con- sequently in cases of subcortical auditory aphasia there is no obliteration of the memories of audi- tory speech ; thought and internal speech are not interfered with; and there is no disturbance produced in the action of the associated speech centres, there is no word-blindness, and the patient has no difficulty in spontaneously ex- pressing himself either in spoken or written speech or in reading aloud. The ability to spell is not impaired. Cases of subcortical {pure, isolated, or subpictorial) word-deafness are ex- tremely rare. The symptoms characteristic of cortical ivord- deafness.—When the lesion involves the auditory speech centre itself the speech alterations are much more profound. The memories or images of auditory speech (spoken words) are more or less completely obliterated ; internal speech and thought are seriously interfered with ; the ability to spell is markedly impaired ; and modifications more or less marked and profound are usually (? always) produced in the action of the motor- vocal and visual speech centres, and in the action of the motor-writing centre. In typical and com- plete cases of cortical word-deafness the patient is not only word-deaf, unable to repeat spoken language, and unable to write from dictation, but there are usually some defects in his power of expressing himself spontaneously in spoken speech (for the function of the motor speech centre is largely stimulated by and controlled by the action of the auditory speech centre); in his ability to understand written speech (for the action of the visual speech centre is intimately as- sociated with, and to some extent dependent upon, the action of the auditory speech centre); and in his ability to write spontaneously. He usually makes some mistakes in voluntary (spontaneous) speech, in reading, and in writing, and in some cases the mistakes are very marked. The com- monest form of mistake is to apply wrong names to objects without being conscious of the mis- take, and to make use of roundabout expressions (paraphasia). In some cases, though the patient makes use of a copious vocabulary, his speech is altogether unintelligible {jargoii). In rare cases, and this probably only occurs as a temporary condition, immediately after the onset of the attack, the patient may not be able to speak at all. In some cases of word-deafness in which the word-deafness is incomplete, the patient (who is unable to understand a spoken word or sen- tence) is conscious of his mistakes, possiVjly in consequence of the additional information re- ceived in the act of articulation and vocalisation. In the great majority of cases of marked word- deafness the patient is unable to repeat what is said to him. In rare cases he can repeat like a parrot (echo speech) what is said to him, al- though he cannot imderstand spoken speech. In some cases of word-deafness the power of ap- preciating music is retained, in others it is lost. In cases of woi'd-deafness there is not usually any paralysis of the limbs or face, though a certain degree of temporary hemiplegia is not uncommon at the onset of the attack. Hemi- anopsia is not present, unless of course the lesion is so extensive as to involve the optic radiations of Gratiolet, or unless there should happen to be a second and independent lesion causing the hemianopsia. The Chief Characteristics of Motor Aphasia FOR Spoken Speech (Motor-Vocal Aphasia, or Aphemia). — In typical and marked cases of motor-vocal aphasia the patient is unable to ex- press himself by vocal speech. He can neither speak spontaneously, repeat vocal speech, nor read aloud ; but he is not absolutely wordless (dumli) unless both motor-vocal speech centres are entirely destroyed. He can usually utter some words, such as yes and no, intelligently, and other words in a reflex, automatic, or emo- tional way; but he cannot intelligently and of set purpose innervate the muscular organs con- cerned in the production of articulate language in the way which is necessary for the production of intellectual, as distinct from emotional or merely automatic language. As Hughlings Jackson has expressed it, the patient is speech- less but not (usually) wordless. The symptoms characteristic of subcortical motor- vocal apjhasia.—In cases of subcortical {pure, isolated, or subpictorial) motor-vocal aphasia the patient is able to miderstand what is said to him (the auditory speech centre being un- affected); he is able to read printed and written characters (the visual speech centre being un- affected) ; he can, provided that the fibres pass- ing from the motor-writing centre are not at the same time implicated, express himself in writ- ing ; but he cannot express himself by means of spoken language. He can neither speak spon- taneously, repeat what he is told to repeat, nor read aloud. In cases of subcortical motor-vocal aphasia, it is merely the " way out" for vocal speech which is blocked; internal speech is entirely unaffected. The patient knows what he wants to say, but he cannot say it. He can, provided that his intelligence is unaffected, indicate by signs the number of syllables in the words which he wishes to express, but he is unable to produce speech sounds (to speak). The symptoms characteristic of cortical {true, or pictorial) motor-vocal aphasia or aphemia.— In cases of cortical motor - vocal aphasia, in which the lesion involves the motor-vocal speech centre itself (Broca's convolution), the patient is unable to speak spontaneously, to repeat what