AND DISEASES OF BLADDER, INJURIES 396 prominent symptoms, and blood will often be found in the urine, as is the 'case when a stone is present. When chronic cystitis is met with in cases of enlarged prostate, and is of a severe nature, not yielding to ordinary treatment, the post-prostatic pouch should be carefully explored with a sound, for, as already mentioned, the presence of a calculus in this situation is often unattended by the usual symptoms of stone. Tuberciilous disease of the bladder in the early stages is accompaiaied by symptoms which may closely simulate those of stone for diagnosis. In most cases of vesical tumours, haemorrhage is a much more prominent symptom. It is usually more profuse and often the earliest to attract attention, being at the outset unattended by pain or other evidences of vesical irritation, coming on sud- denly without any obvious cause, and just as suddenly ceasing. Intermittent attacks of pain- less haematuria are not usually met with in cases of stone. After a time, all the usual evidences of chronic cystitis will appear, and though in many cases the early history of the attacks of bleeding will point to tumour, it is often impossible in the later stages to make a certain diagnosis without a cystoscopic examination, or sounding the bladder. In children, many of the symptoms of stone may be caused by the irritation of an excess of uric acid in the urine, which under these circum- stances occasionally contains traces of blood. On exploi-ing the bladder, a roughened, almost gritty condition of its wall is sometimes felt, " the extreme acidity of the urine exciting a spasmodic contraction of the muscular fasciculi of the bladder and throwing them into ridges or folds against which the point of the sound im- pinges " (Morgan). The symjjtoms all subside as soon as the urine has been rendered less acid by means of drugs. Treatment. — A calculus may be removed from the bladder by a crushing operation, Lithotrity; or by a cutting operation, Lithotomy. LiTHOTRiTY.—The stone is crushed as it lies in the bladder by means of a lithotrite, which is introduced per urethram. Formerly, it was the custom to crush the stone at several operations, or " sittings," as they were termed, each lasting only a few minutes, and then to leave the frag- ments in the bladder to be afterwards passed with the urine by the natural expulsive efforts of the patient. At the present day, the opera- tion is usually completed at a single " sitting," which in the case of a hard stone of some size, may last for a considerable time, e.g. for an hour, or even longer ; at the same " sitting " all the fragments are removed through a large catheter or "evacuating tube," by the suction action of a special syringe, or " evacuator." This procedure which is known as Lithola- paxy, was introduced by Bigelow of Boston, and has many advantages over the old-fashioned method of performing the operation, for by removing all the fragments at once, the pain and irritation, which would be caused by their retention in the bladder and their subsequent passage along the urethra are altogether pre- vented. In performing Litholapaxy the pelvis should be slightly raised and the bladder should contain a few ounces of some antiseptic fluid: the lithotrite is then introdviced, and the stone is seized and crushed, the process being repeated until all the fragments are reduced to small particles. The lithotrite is then withdrawn, and an evacuating catheter introduced and connected with the evacuator, which is filled with warm boric lotion. On compressing the bulb of the evacuator, fluid is forced into the bladder; on relaxing the pressure the bulb refills, and the return current from the bladder carries with it the particles of the stone, which fall into a trapped receiver, where they remain. This is continued until all the debris of the stone is removed, viz. until no more fragments come away, and the ringing sound produced when they strike against the end of the catheter in the bladder has ceased. In cases where some fragments still remain in the bladder, being too large to pass through the catheter, it will be necessary to re-introduce the lithotrite and crush them again, as it is very important that everj- fragment should be removed; for if they are left behind and not subsequently expelled with the urine, they may act as the nuclei of fresh calculi. No special after-treatment is, as a rule, required, beyond keeping the patient in bed for a few days, and if the operation has been a pro- longed one, taking the usual precautions to guard against the effects of shock. The conditions suitable for the performance of lithotrity are as follows :— 1. The stone should be of moderate dimen- sions ; if of a hard nature, consisting of uric acid or oxalate of lime, it should not exceed l^- inches in diameter; if phosphatic, this size maj', however, be considerably exceeded. 2. The stone should be movable and accessible ; if encysted, it will often be impossible to seize it with the lithotrite, and it is frequently difficidt to do so wdien it lies in a depression in the bladder-wall, or in a deep post-prostatic pouch behind an enlarged and prominent median lobe. Moderate enlargement of the prostate is no bar to lithotrit}'. 3. The urethra must be in a healthy state : if a stricture is present, lithotrity is impracticable until the canal is restored to its normal con- dition. 4. The presence of cystitis does not usually contra-indicate lithotrity, unless the symptoms are of a severe nature. If, however, the urine is foul and alkaline, containing a large quantity of pus, and the bladder is in a highly sensitive state, or contracted with thickened walls, so that it will not retain more than two or three