ADOLESCENT INSANITY 58 accompanied by elation and happiness, and that accompanied by fear and terror, that which almost entirely consists of vivid hallucinations, and that with intense motor explosions. Such delirium is not counted as technical insanity, however nearly allied it may be. The form of child-insanity most common is that of mania, sometimes with great elation, extravagant conceptions, great restlessness, and rapidly changing fancies. A form less common is that where there is depression of mind, delusional fears, continuous weeping, and even stiicidal impulses. Almost all child-insanity is commonly of short duration, but apt to recur. Frequently this form of insanity is not very well defined, but consists of the following- symptoms mixed up with each other or in alter- nations, viz. quite imreasonable obstinacy and irritability, change of affection towards relatives, violence of a homicidal kind, shouting, swearing, smashing, causeless angei', loud wailing, fears, hallucinations of sight, covering of head and eyes, and, very occasionally, attempts at suicide. Not infrequently there occurs in certain neurotic children a condition of general mental explosi^'e- ness with sudden impulses in all directions. There can be no doubt that in most of those juvenile psychoses there is a mixture of some of the characters of delirium and epilepsy. For the treatment of such affections I have found no drug so good in so many cases as the bromides given in full doses for the child's age, sometimes in very large doses indeed, and con- tinued for many months after the acute symptoms have passed off. I remember giving a boy of eleven for an attack of maniacal violence and irritability 120 grains daily of the bromide of potassium at first, and he has taken 60 grains daily for the past two years. The effects were marked, both in subduing the excitement and irritability, and also in preventing altogether a recurrence of the acute mental symptoms. All the time he has grown, developed, and gained in weight. Puberty and Adolescence.—It would be taking a narrow and unscientific view of the pathology of puberty and adolescence to forget that the psychoses of the period are merely one of a series of neuroses to which it is a subject. Chorea, somnambulism, megrim, epilepsy, hysteria, in- stinctive immorality, arrested body growth, and many skin and eye diseases are all prevalent and largely pecidiar to this developmental era of life. The liability to acute rheumatism and phthisis pulmonalis is also, I believe, a common consequence of a neurotic heredity of this period. The typical adolescent insanity and pubescent insanity are almost identical in their characters. Adolescent insanity comes on most frequently between eighteen and twenty-five. It is, in fact, the last neurosis of development to appear. In 77 per cent of the cases the attack is maniacal in character, in the other 23 per cent it is melancholic or stuporous. The typical maniacal form commonly begins by a slight amount of depression, listlessness, incapacity to fix the atten- tion, sleeplessness, and unsettledness. Soon there comes on a restless, elated, wayward, boastful, un- conventional stage, often with erotic symptoms. The control of parents is resented, and a great delight is taken in shocking those connected with the patient. This state passes into one of acute mania, which lasts a few weeks or months in different cases. Persistent masturbation is apt to complicate this stage. Then all those acute and exalted symptoms abate and pass off, and a stage of confusion and sometimes of stupor, a sort of reaction after the excitement, comes on. After a few weeks the mental power improves until a state of apparent recovery takes place. But after a few weeks or in a month or two the patient passes through another such maniacal attack. Those relapses may take place many times before complete recovery takes place, or the patient sinks into secondary de- mentia through a stage of chronic mania. This tendency to shoi't, sharp attacks, with inter- missions of sanity, is more frequent in adolescent insanity than any other form of mental disease, except epileptic insanity and folic circulaire. Those apparent recoveries that do not last make it most disappointing to anxious parents, and to the doctors in attendance. In addition to this periodic relapsing character there is another marked feature of the mania. The ideas, emotion, speech, and conduct are apt to be strongly tinctured by grotesque and ex- aggerated characteristics of normal adolescence. In addition to masturbation, hysterical symptoms in women, boastfulness, mock heroic motives, imitations of manly airs, obtrusive pugnacious- ness, and a morbid sentimentality are very common. In the melancholic adolescents there is not nearly the same tendency to relapse as in the maniacal cases. Frequently there are strong suicidal impulses that have to be guarded against. But for the most part the cases follow the lines of ordinary simple melancholia. One seldom sees the more serious examples of excited and restive melancholia at that age. The cases of adolescent insanity which assume the form of stupor come next in frequency to the melancholic. Nearly all the typical cases of anergic stupor—the primary dementia and dementia attonita of many authors—are adoles- cents. This form of mental disease is a very interesting psychosis, most cases of trance and catalepsy being examples of it. There is often a sexual or masturbative element running through it. The vascular and trophic symptoms, lowness of temperature, a blue oedematous condition of the extremities, weak heart's action, tendency to chilblains, etc., point strongly to a neuro-vaso- motor defect. There is a very rare form of adolescent in-