165 xVNEURYSM wliich probably cause no immodiate syiaptoms, and which may perhaps heal and remain sound in many cases. Those who earn their living by a series of frequently repeated strong muscular efforts maintain a more or less constantly in- creased blood-pressure which sooner or later tells upon their vessels and renders theui, as a class, unduly liable to aneurysm. Permanent arterial .strain results from plethora, hypertrophy of the left ventricle, and from the general angio-sclerosis of Bright's disease, with which alcoholism, plumbism, and the gouty diathesis must be associated etiologically. Effort will, of course, still further raise the blood - pressure in tliese cases. Indeed, it is not difficult to l)elieve that more or less serious ruptures of arterial tissues occur ; the difficulty is rather to understand why they do not happen oftener. (6) Impaired strength and elasticitr/ of the arterial wall may Ite the result of— 1. Congenital Defect.—In some rare cases of aneurysm in healthy children and young people, no known cause of arterial weakness has been recognised. It is possible that the media may have been congenitally weak. Eppinger states that he has demonstrated relative weakness of the media in certain of the healthy arteries he examined. 2. Injury.—It is said that non-penetrating incised wounds of vessels may allow the inner tissues to protrude and form an aneurysm ("hernial"). Small penetrating wounds may heal and the scar yield later. The effects of distending strain have lieen considered. Longi- tudinal strain—as when the knee is over- extended till the posterior ligament cracks—will rupture the inner coats of the popliteal. The greater frequency of aneurysm on the right side of the root of the neck seems due to strain on the great vessels from the more frequent and stronger use of the right arm ; and it is probable that the great frequency of popliteal among external aneurysms is connected with the frequent and strong extension movements of the joint — the artery being fixed by its artiodar branches. Sometimes a strong extension move- ment, e.g. jumping a ditch, seems to rupture something, and a popliteal aneurysm follows. Squeezes and contusions may rupture more or less of the inner tunics: occasionally the pidse disappears from large vessels after a contusion. Even digital and instrumental compression have been followed b}' aiietirysm. So, too, has the crushing action of an aseptic ligature, which has softened or come inidone before occlusion of the vessel has occurred. Vascular weakness renders injury and dilatation from these causes more likely. 3. Arteritis hy Infection from without, usually coupled with loss of 7iatural support.—The com- monest examples of this are the small aneiuysms of the pidmonary artery in the walls of a tuljer- cular cavity. Tidiercuiar inflammation rarely attacks large vessels. Septic ligatxu-e with rupture of the inner coats was often followed by an acute arteritis with great swelling and softening of the wall which usually ended in secondary hscmorrhage, but sometimes in dilatation. A similar acute dilatation may affect uninjured arteries in cases of spreading suppuration. Thus an abscess formed above the wrist after erysipelas ; it burst, and free bleeding followed from an aneurysm the size of a walnut on the radial. Small " erosion " aneurysms have l)een met with in the floor of gastric and other ulcers; but large vessels {e.g. femoral in sloughing bubo) when eroded usually show little dilatation before they burst and Ijleed. 4. Arteritis hy Infection from -within.— The above causes account for very few aneurysms ; that which is about to be considered accounts for a larger number, though still not for many — viz. for most aneurysms occurring in children and young adults, together with some in more advanced life. When an infective embolus lodges in a vessel it induces an acute arteritis similar to the septic form; which, also, may result in Inu-sting (and formation of an arterial hfcma- toma) or in dilatation. The embolus irritates mechanically, especially if it contain calcareous masses, and chemically by toxins with which it may be soaked ; and thus prepares the way for invasion of the wall by the cocci in the embolus —the important irritant. Ponfick, however, attributed certain aneurysms examined by him to idceration of the vessel from the mechanical irritation alone of calcareous masses. Aneurysms from embolism usually occm- in the yomig, and on arteries of medium size ; they are often multiple; there is almost always di.s- ease of a left valve, and visually the patient presents the symptoms of endocarditis maligna. But this is not always the case, for the same cocci may be found in warty as in ulcerative endocarditis. The impact of the embolus is often accompanied by sharp pain, and circu- latory distiu'bance is common. 5. Chronic Arterial Disease.— Endarteritis deformans, Atheroma, Arterio - sclerosis (.see "Arteries, Diseases of"').—This chronic inflam- matory and degenerative process of the intima Inlays an important part in the development of aneurj'sm. Until recently the arterial changes which have received these names were regarded as primarily inflammatory, the chief irritant being the strain of the blood-pressure, especially when heightened. The inflammatory products effused in thesubcndothelial layei's were poorly nourished, and tending strongly to fatty degeneration were the most striking lesions. Occasional thickening of the adventitia was recognised, but little notice was taken of changes in the media ; loss of elasticity, general dilatation, and lengthening