212 ANTHRAX III. Anthrax in the Lower Animals Animals liable to the Disease.—Most of our domestic animals are liable to anthrax; they may be infected in the same ways as man, but they are not equally susceptible to all modes of infection. Infection through the alimentary canal is the most common. Generally speaking, young animals are more liable than old ones; fatigue and other unfavourable con- ditions predispose to infection, as well as some ill-defined individual peculiarities. Sheep appear to be most susceptible animals to infection by inoculation or ingestion. Cer- tain races of sheep (Algerian sheep) offer, however, a remarkable resistance (Chauveau). Goats behave much as do the sheep. Cattle are also easily infected through the alimentary canal; but they are much more resistant to subcutaneous inoculations. CEmler did not succeed in producing anthrax by inocu- lation in more than one out of forty-one cows or oxen which he inoculated with large quanti- ties of anthrax blood. The outbreaks observed among cattle are undoubtedly chiefly due to ingestion of contaminated food. Ruminants, generally speaking, may be said to be among the animals most liable to anthrax. The horse is in many European states not very frequently affected, but in Eussia, Sardinia, Algeria, and India serious outbreaks of intes- tinal anthrax have occurred among horses. The pig may be infected by ingestion and inoculation. Dogs and cats offer considerable resistance to anthrax. Cats appear to be more liable than dogs—young cats especially. Carnivora generally do not seem very suscep- tible to the disease ; the hear is said to be liable to it; and cases of infection of human beings through bear skins have been recorded. Rodents (including the usual experimental animals, i.e. the mouse, the givinea-pig, and the rabbit) contract the disease very readily after inoculation, but resist infection by the ali- mentary canal much more than sheep or cattle do. Rats, specially of the white variety, offer great resistance to anthrax, but their resistance is considerably reduced by fatigue and various ill-defined conditions. Birds, generally speaking, are not easily affected by inoculation, and may be fed, appar- ently without effect, on food containing anthrax bacilli. The disease has, however, been pro- duced in young pigeons, ducks, chickens, and sparrows by inoculation. Pasteur has shown that by lowering the temperature of the hen, that bird can be rendered liable to anthrax infection. Batrachians and fishes offer a considerable resistance to anthrax. Gibier has demonstrated, however, that when the temperature of frogs is artificially raised, the bacillus multiplies readily in their blood and tissues. Duration of the Disease after Experimental Inoculation. — Animals usually employed in experimental work die more or less rapidly when inoculated with virulent anthrax bacilli. The mouse usually dies within "20 hours. The guinea-pig in from 36 to 48 hours. The rabbit in about 60 hours. The same animals when inoculated with less virulent bacilli or spores may resist much longer or recover. The writer has observed a characteristic form of chronic anthrax in some guinea-pigs which he had inoculated with spores that had been kept dry and exposed to air, in the dark, for nearly two years. No effect appeared to result from the inoculation for the first three weeks. At the end of that time the animals suddenly succumbed. Bacilli were found in small numbers in the blood and all the organs examined, in the spleen they occurred in small groups here and there ; they were A^ru- lent and readily cultivated. Special Features of Anthrax in some of THE Domestic Animals.—Symptoms.—General Anthrax.—Anthrax without any external mani- festations (^Anthraccemia, spilenic fever) may run such a rapid course as to cause death within one hour of the appearance of the symptoms {Anthrax acutissimus) ; in such cases the animals die with the symptoms of cerebral apoplexy, blood - stained discharge escaping from their nose, mouth, and anus. This form is chiefly observed in cattle and sheep at the beginning of certain epizootics. Anthrax, even when acute {Anthrax acutus), usually runs a somewhat slower course, the symptoms lasting from a few hours to twenty- four hours. In such cases fever, signs of cerebral congestion or irritation, unsteadiness, weakness, pulmonary congestion, tumultuous cardiac beats, rapidity and smallness of the pulse, blood-stained discharges from the orifices of the respiratory and alimentary tracts, hsema- turia (in the sheep), and signs of asphyxia are observed. Occasionally remissions may occur. In the ox and the horse the disease often runs a slower course still {Anthrax suhacutus)— one day to five or seven days. The symptoms are of the same nature as in the preceding form, but the fever and gastro-intestinal symptoms are generally more evident. Remissions are also more frequent than in the other forms. Anthrax with Localised Lesions of the Skin or Mucous Membranes.—Symptoms.— Cutaneous anthrax resembling more or less closely the human malignant pustule is observed chiefly in the horse and the ox, and sometimes also in the dog. The illness generally lasts from three to five days. Anthrax may affect more specially the mucous membranes of the mouth (gloss anthrax); of the pharynx (anginal anthrax). These forms are