BRAIN, TU sixth, and seventh nerves on both sides. The most varied pictures may, however, result from pontine lesions, and ataxic disorders have been met with in connection with growths in this situation. Medulla Oblongata.—The features by which tumours in this region are to be recognised are defects consequent on implication of the glosso- plia-ryngeal, vagus, spinal accessory, or hypo- glossal nerves, together with, it may be, paralytic defects in the limbs on both or only on one side. It thus happens that in cases of this kind defects of articulation, diificulty of deglutition, disturbances of the heart's action and of respiration, unilateral or bilateral para- lysis of the palate with loss of reflex action, and paralysis of one or both vocal cords are met with. As in the case of the crus and pons, the motor disturbance in the limbs in some cases is due to inco-ordination rather than to true paralysis. Although it is only in a comparatively small mniiber of cases that an opinion can be ex- pressed as to the nature of the neoplasm with anything approaching to certainty, it is never- theless important that an attempt should be made to decide this question in every case owing to the important bearings that the nature of the tumour has both on prognosis and treat- ment. Syphilis supplies the largest nmnber of tumoiu's that can be recognised with the greatest degree of probability, while to tuljercle may be assigned the second place in this con- nection. As regards other forms of intra- cranial tumour, it is largely a matter of surmise, except when a primary growth of known nature exists, or has been removed from some other part of the body, in which case an almost positive opinion becomes possible both in regard to carcinoma and sarcoma. So too in the case of parasitic cysts, the nature of that inside the skull may be made evident by the information supplied by one or more in other parts of the body. The points in favour of a syphilitic growth are the age of the patient, a history of infection or of congenital origin, and, in the absence of these, the detection of associated lesions of known syphilitic nature. Evidence that the tumour is on the surface of the brain is in favour of its being syphilitic, whereas it is less likely to be of this character if deeply seated in a cerebral hemisphere, and still less likely if it is in the cerebellum. So too it is unlikely that a tumour which is growing very slowly is of this nature. The best evidence is, however, supplied by treatment, for the symptoms produced by no other form of tumour can be so completely removed by drugs as is possible in syphilomata. As regards evidence of tuber- culous tumours, the detection of disease of a like nature in some other part of the body is all important, less so in children, however, than in adults, for in the latter, as we have already said, intracranial tumour of this nature rarely exists without concomitant tuberculous disease VOL. I MOURS OF 497 of the lungs. In the absence of such evidence a scrofulous diathesis or hereditary history of tuberculosis must be allowed to exert some influence on our deliberations. The fact that the patient is a child, and that the growth is in the cerebellum in a patient at this time of life, are also of some value. Evidence of rapid growth at iirst, followed by a stationary period, is suggestive, while when symptoms of tumour become complicated by those of general men- ingitis the probabilities in favour of tubercle become very strong. Treatment is only of secondary value in aiding to elucidate the problem, though when other indications suggest tubercle improvement mider tonics may be allowed some weight in diagnosis. We possess little information that can aid us in determining the nature of other forms of growth, though proof that a tumour originated outside the brain is in favoiu" of sarcoma, while evidence of very slow growth is in favour of fibroma or glioma, though the latter may be one of the most rapidly growing forms of neoplasm. Sudden symptoms indicative of hfemorrhage into the tumour is also in favour of glioma. Prognosis varies greatly in different cases, though in no instance can a cerebral tumour be regarded otherwise than as serious. Several considerations influence prognosis, paramount among which is the nature of the growth. If syphilitic, there is a good chance that it may be satisfactorily removed by drugs, but it must be remembered that on the one hand such growths may recur, and that on the other absorption of the tumour does not of necessity mean disappearance of all the symptoms to which it gave rise, for irreparable damage may have been done to the nerve elements at the seat of growth, or the resulting scar tissue may cause persistent epilepsy, though the latter class of case may prove amenable to surgical intervention. Then again syj)hilitic disease of the cerebral vessels may ))e so advanced that absorption of the tumour avails the patient little. Tuberculous tumours are not uncom- monly arrested, but in that disease of a like nature may coexist in some other part of the body, prognosis as regards life may turn on, for instance, the pulmonary condition rather than on the cerebral. In the case of such a tumour that has become stationary, the symptoms to which it formerly gave rise may improve greatly or may entirely disappear although the tumoiu" is still present, notably is this the case when the cerebellum is its seat. In all other forms of cerebral tumour prognosis is grave, except where there is a reasonaVjle hojae that the growth can be successfully removed by opera- tion. In any case of intracranial tumour death may be unexpectedly sudden, but apart from this accident the probable duration of life has to be estimated from the history of the length of time that symptoms had existed, the rate at 32