ANKLE-JOINT, REGION OF—INJURIES AND DISEASES 199 Reduction generally easy. When the knee is flexed, adduct the foot and press the tibia out- wards. 4. Tmcard luxation rare, produced by violent inversion of the foot, or by direct violence, such, for example, as the passage of a cart-wheel over the ankle. The internal malleolus is commonly broken by tlie astragalus being forced against it, the line of fracture extending in an upward and inward direction. The external lateral liga- ment is torn, or the tip of the outer malleolus is fractured and dragged inwards. The deltoid and inferior tibio-fil)ular ligaments remain in- tact. The astragalus, which may or may not be broken, is rotated in such a manner that its upper articular surface lies below and in front of the external malleolus. The foot is inverted and its iimer border considerably raised. Reduction is effected by flexing the knee, ex- tending the foot and pressing it outwards. The parts are kept in position by means of a back and two lateral splints. Gentle passive motion at the end of a month. 5. Dislocation upwards, Nelaton's dislocation, rare ; generally produced by a fall from a height on the sole of the foot. The tibio-fibular liga- ments are completely ruptured, and the astragalus is forced up between the two bones which are widely separated. The anterior and posterior ligaments of the ankle are also ruptiu'ed, while the lateral ligaments sufter only to the extent of rupture of some of their fibres. The clinical signs are eversion of the foot, shortening of the leg from the malleoli being nearer the ground. The inner malleolus forms a very distinct prominence on the inner side, with the skin tightly stretched over it. The distance between the malleoli is increased. In some cases considerable difliculty has been encountered in bringing the foot into its proper position. Generally, however, it can be done by extension combined with, if necessary, a to- and-fro movement to disengage the astragalus which is jammed in between the leg bones. The after-treatment is the same as for the other dislocations. CoMPouxi) Dislocation of the Ankle-Joint is always a serious injury, and may necessitate primary amputation of the leg. Under im- proved wound treatment, the need for such an extreme measure does not now so frequently arise. In deciding whether amputation is re- quired or not, attention must be paid to the nat(n-e of the wound, the condition of the soft parts, the age and constitution of the patient. Amputation will be necessaiy, if in addition to the dislocation there is much laceration of the soft tissues with splintering of the bone. The accident most likely to produce this state of matters is a hea\-y weight passing over the ankle. When the wound is small, by the application of an antiseptic dressing, after the parts have been subjected to careful cleansing, it is possible to obtain rapid healing, the dislocation being thus converted into a simple one. Absolute rest must be enjoined by fixing the limb on a back splint, and later in plaster of Paris. Should suppuration take place, means must be adopted for pi'oviding free exit for the pus, and for draining the joint. It has been suggested that, as the malleoli interfere with efficient drainage, they should be removed. The general plan of treatment in a case of compound dislocation of the ankle when am- putation is not considered advisable, is to administer an anjesthetic, to reduce the dis- location, to clean the parts thoroughly with an antiseptic lotion, carbolic acid 1 in 20 or sub- limate 1 in 1000, to provide proper means of escape for the ett'used fluids, to envelop the joint in a wood-wool dressing over sublimate gauze, and to fix the limb securely in suitable splints—generally a wooden back splint, with two interrupted side splints, or to use Paul's splinting with plaster of Paris, the lateral aspects of the ankle being left exposed. Fractures of the Astragalus are generally produced by falls upon the feet; the line of fracture extending through the neck or the body of the bone. Displacement of one of the fragments frequently takes place. It is often very difficult to make out the precise nature of the injury ; in these cases the X-rays will aftbrd valuable assistance, by showing us the direction of the fractui-e, and the character and extent of the associated displacement. When the fracture is simple with little dis- placement, the limb should be placed on a back splint, and later encased in plaster of Paris. Passive movements to be carried out after a month of the treatment by rest. Should the fracture be compound or the dis- placement of tlie fragments be such as to threaten the vitality of the overlying skin, then removal of the bone would be necessary, and the functional results after this operation are very good. Dislocation's of the Astra(;alus.—In these the astragalus is separated, either partially or wholly, from all its normal connections. It therefore loses its natiu'al relations with the bones of the leg, and with those of the foot, and is carried forward or backward with or without some lateral deviation. The cause is generally' a fall from a lieight or a sudden twist of the foot. Forward and outward is the most common variety of luxation. It may be partial or com- plete. When complete the astragalus is quite separated and carried forward, its head resting on the outer cuneiform and cuboid bones, where it can be seen and felt. The limb is shortened, the foot is adducted and inverted, 1 and the external malleolus prominent. The I skin is tightly stretched over the displaced