ARTERIES, LIGATURE OF 268 further cutting of any more bone. It not seldom happens that, owing to its retraction into the bony canal in the parietal bone, or even into the foramen spinosum, this vessel defies ligation. In such cases the bleeding may be best arrested by plugging the bony canal with antiseptic wax, or failing this, with a wooden match made aseptic. Axillary Artery.—Injury to this vessel is of not infrequent occurrence. Thus it may be wounded in dissecting malignant glands out of the axilla, in stabs, or ruptured in the reduction of dislocations of the upper end of the humerus of old standing. Here again double ligature will be required to control the alarming heemor- rhage, any part of the pectorals overlying the wound in the vessel being cut across, if neces- sary, to ensure free exposure of the bleeding point. Subclavian Artery.—A wound partially sever- ing this large vessel will produce a haemorrhage so profuse that death may ensue in a few minutes. A punctured wound of small size will require the application of a ligature on either side of the wound. Intercostal Artery. — Hsemorrhage from an intercostal artery is generally best treated by tightly plugging the wound with antiseptic gauze. Should it recur, it may require double ligature of the vessel after the resection of an inch of the rib if this is unavoidable. Hcemorrhage from Wound of the Palm of the Hand.—This is of frequent occurrence, and in cases of secondary hsemorrhage in a septic sloughing wound is of really considerable danger. In primary heemorrhage, if the super- ficial palmar arch be wounded, the best treat- ment is to apply a ligature on each side of the bleeding point if this can be found. Failing this, the wound having been carefully cleansed, an antiseptic compress may be employed. Should, however, the wound, as not infrequently happens, become infected, secondary haemor- rhage is in this part peculiarly prone to occur. In this case the unvarying rule of practice should be the application of a ligature to the brachial artery in the middle of the upper arm. Ligature of the radial and ulnar arteries is not nearly so likely to arrest the haemorrhage, owing to the fact that the blood-flow in the two interosseous arteries and the arteria comes nervi mediani (which last is frequently of large size) will not be checked by ligature of the radial and ulnar arteries. Owing to the very free anastomosis around the elbow-joint there is no risk of the occurrence of gangrene after the ligation of the brachial artery. Gluteal and Sciatic Arteries.—Stab wounds of these vessels in a large muscular buttock are, owing to the great depth at which they lie, always serious injuries. If possible the wound must be explored and two ligatures applied, one on either side of the bleeding point. Should, however, this last be in the pelvic portion of either vessel, the gravity of the injury is really formidable. The only course in such a case open to the surgeon is ligation of the parent trunk of the internal iliac artery. Femoral Artery.—This vessel is of all the large arteries the one that is perhaps the most commonly injured. The bleeding point in case in which the haemorrhage is not almost immedi- ately fatal must be found, and a ligature applied to the vessel above and below the source of the haemorrhage. In case of secondary haemorrhage from a wound of the femoral artery, an attempt should be made to apply a ligature above and below those already tied on either side of the wound. Should the haemorrhage recur, our choice lies between amputation at the level of the wound in the vessel and ligature of the external iliac artery. The former procedure, though one that the surgeon naturally would for many reasons wish to avoid, certainly has the lower mortality, and should therefore, as a rule, be adopted. Popliteal Artery.—Owing to its depth this vessel generally escapes injury. It is, however, in some danger of being wounded in the removal | of a sequestrum from the trigone of the femur, j In the rare cases of wound of this vessel two s ligatures, one on either side of the wound, |,; should be applied. This is an operation of no i little difficulty, owing partly to the depth of \ the artery from the surface, and also to the i| fact that this vessel is more closely adherent to !| its vein than any other artery in the body. '\ Anterior and Posterior Tibial Arteries.— |.' Wounds of these vessels occur chiefly from the |i sharp fragments of bone in compound fractures of | the leg. In such cases the wounded artery must ll be ligated above and below the bleeding point. i; I Ligation of Arteries in Continuity 11 The ligation of an artery in its continuity is 1 an operation which any practitioner may be I: called upon to perform at a moment's notice j under the most unfavourable conditions, with- jt out professional assistance and with but few j instruments at hand, and yet, in not a few 6 instances, the life of the patient will depend i upon the promptness and judgment of the [| operator. There are few things more easy to \ forget than the relations of the main arteries, [ and yet every medical man, having regard to ' the fact that he may suddenly be called upon to ligature one of these vessels, should consider jj it his duty to keep in remembrance the anatomy il of at least the more important arteries. It has ) been wisely said that there is no such thing as j surgical anatomy, that all anatomy is surgical. | To no section of anatomy does this apply with i| greater force than to that of the main arteries. j; It need hardly be impressed upon the reader \ that, owing to the tremendous risks of secondary { haemorrhage in septic arteritis, every operation \