82 ATR, EXAMINATION OF the air for very short distances. According to Germano, infection of typhoid fever by dust is impossible at a distance of a few hundred yards. But in the case of diphtheria this is possible at greater distances, as the bacillus of Loffler pre- serves its full virulence when quite dry. The effect of light, also, in either killing the organ- isms or robbing them of their virulence, renders infection at great distance unlikely. Sewer Air.—The air of sewers has long been regarded as dangerous and a likely source of infection in certain diseases, but it is only of recent years that much attention has been directed to its careful examination. The gaseous products of the decomposition of animal organic matter have been sought for, as also the micro- organisms of infectious disease, e.g. the bacillus of typhoid fever. The investigation carried out in 1893 by Mr. J. Parry Laws for the County Council of London is, perhaps, the most ex- tensive of its kind in this country. As a mean of thirteen experiments the average amount of carbonic acid was 11-8 parts per 10,000; and the number of micro-organisms was, with two exceptions, less than in outside air. The kind of micro-organisms found was the same as those in outside air. The Bacillus coli communis and the Micrococccus ureje, both abundant in sewage, were carefully searched for, but never found. In a later investigation of the character of the microbes in sewage, carried out along with Dr. Andrews, they found that the very organisms most abundant in sewage are precisely those absent from sewer air. Their conclusion is— " That the air of sewers themselves plays any part in the conveyance of typhoid fever appears, as the result of our investigations, in the highest degree unlikely." Carnelly and Haldane con- clude, from their investigation of sewer air in London and in Dundee, " that the air of sewers, as regards organic matter, carbonic acid and micro-organisms, is in a very much better condition than the air of naturally ventilated schoolrooms." The only pathogenic organism found by Uefelman in sewer air was Staphylo- coccus pyogenes aureus. In Paris the air of sewers is regularly ex- amined. The following are the results for 1892: —Carbonic acid, 4-78 per 10,000; ammonia, •148 mgrm. per 1000 litres; the outside air containing 2-98 parts per 10,000 carbonic acid, and "04 mgrm. of ammonia per 1000 litres. A litre of sewer air and of outside air contained 6 and 8 micro-organisms respectively. Ground Air.—The chemical examination of ground air (Grund Luft of Pettenkofer), i.e. the air which is contained in the pores of the soil, was first made by Boussingault and Levy in 1853. Not much attention, however, was directed to it till Pettenkofer showed that the amount of carbonic acid in the air of a given soil could be used as a means of estimating the amount of organic decomposition taking place in it. Ground air is simply atmospheric air with its oxygen in part replaced by carbonic acid, with the occasional presence in small quantity of some other gases — carburetted hydrogen and ammonia. Boussingault states that when the sum of the amounts of oxygen and carbonic acid exceeds the amount of oxygen in the atmosphere, then p^drefaction is taking- place in the soil. In this case, under the action of anaerobic organisms, the organic matter is itself supplying the oxygen for the oxidation of its carbon. In the deeper layers of an impure and rather impermeable soil, putrefaction is common if the suitable conditions of warmth and moisture are present; in an impure and permeable soil, on the other hand, there is simply oxidation. The amount of carbonic acid in the air of a given soil depends on (1) the amount of organic matter; (2) permeability ; (3) depth ; (4) tem- perature and moisture. Pettenkofer found that the ground air in the desert of Sahara had the same composition as the atmosphere, the con- ditions for the development of carbonic acid being absent. But no reliable conclusions can be drawn as to the purity of a soil from the carbonic acid estimation, unless its permeability is known. If the ground air in two soils be examined, similar as regards organic impurity, temperature, and moisture, but of different permeabilities, the less permeable will contain more carbonic acid than the more permeable; because, in the former, the air is prevented from so easily diffusing vertically into the atmosphere, or horizontally into the adjacent soil. As regards temperature, the amount of carbonic acid is least in late winter and spring, increasing to its maxi- mum in summer and early autumn, and declin- ing again to its minimum. The rainfall exerts a great influence, especially if rain follows on a long drought in summer. The amount of carbonic acid increases with the depth. This arises, .not from increased chemical change taking place, nor necessarily from more organic impurity being present, but because the air does not get so easy vent as in the more superficial layers. The following are the monthly means of daily determinations at a depth of 3 feet. (1) is an impure and permeable soil, and (2) a pure and rather impermeable clayey soil. The results are stated in c.c.'s per litre. Jan. Feb. March. April. May. J une. (1) (2) 8-68 7-2 7-66 7-9 9-0 15-6 4-1 4-5 3-9 4-5 41 4-9 Julv. Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. (1) 24-9 24-6 20-4 17-6 11-6 8-4 (2) 6-4 8-3 8-0 8-5 3-9 3-2 Lewis and Cunningham investigated the ground air in the soil of Calcutta. They found the amount of carbonic acid at 3 feet as follows :—-