35 ACCOMMODATION unci therefore, by the contraction of the longitu- dinal fibres, it draws forward the choroid, and with this the suspensory ligament. The liga- ment is now relaxed, and the elastic lens, being- released from the traction, becomes more convex anteriorly, and with this change its refractive power is increased. When the ciliary muscle relaxes, the suspensory ligament once more becomes taut, the anterior surface of the lens consequently becomes flattened, and the refractive power is decreased. Theory of TsdierninAf.—This is in certain respects diametrically opposed to the theory of Helmholtz. Tschei'ning bases his view on the observations mentioned above — that only the central part of the anterior surface of the lens is increased in convexity during accommodation, while the peripheral zone is flattened, a change which he maintains Could not be brought about by relaxation of the suspensory ligament. Tscherning considers that, by the conti'action of certain deep fibres of the ciliary muscle which he describes, the ciliary processes are drawn out- wards and backwards, and by this movement the suspensory ligament is rendered more tense. At the same time the longitudinal fibres draw the choroid forwards, and thereby give support to the vitreous l)ody and indii'ectly to the lens itself. As a result of the tension of the sns- pensoiy ligament, the lens, supported from behind, is moulded anteriorly in a twofold man- ner, the peripheral zone is flattened, wiiile the central portion is rendered more convex. Thus, according to Helmholtz the suspensory ligament is slackened during accommodation, whereas according to Tscherning it is tightened. Among the various points in favour of the older view may be mentioned — the globular shape taken liy the lens on rupture of the sus- pensory ligament, and the high degree of myopia whicli is developed ; also the greater mobility and sinking of the lens on accommodation, an "Ijservation most difficult to explain by Tschern- ing's theory. It must be allowed tliat further knowledge is necessary befoi-e the matter can finally be decided ; meanwhile the l)alance of opinion remains in favour of the classical view of Helmholtz. Nervous Mechanism of Accommodation.— Tiie ciliary muscle is governed by a centre, wiiich in dogs is situated at the foremost part of the nucleus of the third nerve in the fioor of the central canal opposite the junction of the aqueduct and the third ventricle. Stimulation of the centre, or the third nerve, or short ciliary nerves, leads to contraction of the ciliary muscle and accommodation for near objects, thereby indicating the path taken by the ciliary fibres. Whether relaxation of accommodation is also under special nervous influence has not been definitely decided. Jessop observed recession of tiie anterior surface of the lens on stimulating the long ciliary nerves, after the ciliary muscle had been partly contracted witli pilocarpin. Morat and Doyon record enlargement of the reflected image from the anterior surface of the lens in dogs and cats which were under the in- fluence of morphia or pilocarpin. On the other hand, Langley and Anderson failed to observe either backward movement of the lens or en- largement of the lens images. The actual time taken in relaxation of accommodation is much shorter than tliat taken in accommodation itself, a fact which is not in favour of the view that the former is simply passive. Unequal Accommodation.—By this is meant an unequal degree of accommodation in the two eyes at the same time—a condition which might be expected to occur in cases of anisometropia (unequal refraction in the two eyes) in order that the focus in the two eyes might be equalised. From the observations of Hering and Bonders it would appear that unequal accommodation does not occur ; the later experiments of Fick tend to a contrary opinion, but, again, Hess's very careful experiments support the older view. The latter experimented with very fine threads, which were only visible when they were situated in the focal plane of the eye ; he arranged them in the stereoscope, so that only one thread was seen by each eye. One thread being kept stationary, he found that in cases of aniso- metropia a deviation of the other thread, corre- sponding with a lens of '50, from the focal plane of the eye observing it, caused the thread to become indistinct, or even invisible—showine; that no variation in the accommodation of the two eyes could be made. Unequal Contraction of different Parts OF the Ciliary Muscle.—Some have thought that such a condition might occur on the grounds that (a) an increase in the amount of astigmatism has been noted in some cases after instillation of atropin; (i) tiie axis of astigmatism has been noticed to vary at ditt'erent times. On the other hand. Hess, in his experiments, failed to find any evidence in favour of unequal con- traction sufficient to overcome even a slight degree of astigmatism. He used two extremely fine threads, one at right angles to the other, and placed them in front of an astigmatic eye, so that one thread was in the focal plane of each astigmatic meridian. In that position lioth were seen, but directly one of the threads was moved forwards or backwards, there was at once blurring of tlie thread, and by no effort of accommodation could lioth threads be focussed again. He also found tliat astigmatic individuals do not accommodate for one or other of their linear foci, but for an intermediate, approxi- mately circular focus between the two linear foci. That the most distinct image is obtained in this way he showed by rendering a photo- graphic apparatus astigmatic ; the clearest picture was obtained when tiie apparatus was