438 BONE, DISEASES OF gravidarum, from stretching of the skin, and tearing of the subcutaneous elastic fibres ; they have been observed at the knee, ankle, elbow, and wrist, and are transverse to the long axis of the limb. In the diagnosis reliance is to be chiefly placed on (1) variable attacks of fever; (2) pains and tenderness at the epiphysial junctions ; and (3) increase in stature. It may be mistaken for typhoid and other fevers, tuberculous meningitis, tuberculous diseases of bones and joints. Growth- fever is rarer than any one of these. Localised forms at the hip and in the spine may be reasonably mistaken for tuberculosis, but this is of less importance, as the treatment is the same for both. The prognosis is essentially favourable, but, if carelessly treated, neglected, or exposed to injury, it may pass into the more serious forms of osteomyelitis attended with suppuration. Treatment is directed towards improving the general health by fresh air, sunlight, good food, attention to the bowels, and suitable local treat- ment during the persistence of the pains. Rest in bed with immobilisation of the affected limb, and later some rigid apparatus, and it may be the application of a blister. 4. Chronic, Persistent, or Prolonged and Relapsing Osteomyelitis following on the Acute, including one Form of Abscess of Bone.—The explanation of the occurrence of chronic, persistent, and of relapsing forms of osteomyelitis is supposed to be as follows :—An acute attack has been recovered from, but has left behind it, in the marrow, foci of infection containing staphylococci which lie latent or dormant, in an attenuated condition, for an indefinite period. At any future time they may be rejuvenated by conditions unknown, aided by depression of the general health, by local injury, strain, or exposure to cold, and cause a fresh outburst of the disease. Although the majority of observers regard these latter outbreaks as remains of the original infection, others believe they may be due to fresh infection, and that the original acute attack is only related to them in so far as it provides a locus minoris resistentice. The primary attack may have been a com- paratively mild one, and may have attracted little notice, or it may have been one attended with acute illness, suppuration, and necrosis. It may or may not have been efficiently treated. In any case the virus in the marrow has not been eradicated. The nature of the lesion is influenced considerably by the fact that the affected bone has reached maturity, for the disease is one of adult life, and it is further influenced by the changes which the bone sustained as a result of the primary attack, i.e. it is not a healthy or normal bone. The lesion may assume the form of progressive thickening of the bone (hyperostosis and sclerosis), or that of a circumscribed collection of pus (chronic abscess of bone), or that of ordinary suppurative osteo- myelitis ivith necrosis and sinuses. The possibility of the disease running its course without suppuration may be ascribed to the attenuated condition of the staphylococci, and to the greater resistance offered by the tissues of the adult bone to the infecting agent. While acute osteomyelitis, by its more direct and intense action, arrests ossification, and gives rise to arrests of growth, prolonged and relapsing osteomyelitis, by maintaining less acute action, stimulates growth, and gives rise to thickening and condensation of the bone. Where progressive thickening of the bone, hyperostosis and sclerosis, is the chief element, the medullary canal becomes obliterated, the bone is increased in girth and weight, the periosteal surface presents the appearances of newly-formed bone, which may assume very varied characters. The periosteum itself is greatly thickened, the muscles of the limb are atrophied, the soft parts may be cedematous, or they may be sclerosed and matted to each other. The skin often presents an unnatural growth of hair. Clinically we may have predominance of the persistent or of the relapsing type of inflam- mation. There may be one relapse, or repeated attacks over a period of years. They may recur annually at or near the same period. The relapsing type of osteomyelitis is to be suspected in a patient over twenty-five years of age, and the history of an acute attack in youth is to be asked for. Clinically the local features predominate. This is in marked contrast to the original attack in youth. The pain, swelling, redness, and oedema precede or accompany a moderate degree of fever. The onset of symptoms is often gradual and slow, and the patient may continue his occupation. The patient may call the surgeon's attention to traces of the original attack in the shape of scars, deformity, or loss of function of the limb. The general symptoms are never so severe, and they rarely make one anxious. The disease is very rarely fatal. The reason of this is partly to be found in the blocking of the medullary canal, the general sclerosis, and the scarring of the soft parts, which all help to circumscribe the infection and pi'event the absorption of toxins and any considerable local extension of the disease. Should pus form, the old cicatrised sinuses serve as guides for it to escape exter- nally ; an old sinus may actually open up in continuity with the original cloaca in the bone. The enlargement of the bone occurs especially in the vicinity of the ossifying junction origin- ally diseased; it may appear, however, to be situated higher up the shaft, because of the growth in length of the latter from the epiphysial junction subsequent to the original attack. It may extend along the bone to the next joint. From growth of bone subsequent to original