ANESTHETICS—ETHYL CHLORIDE 160 successful for inflamed tissues, and there is danger when it is employed in the region of new growths lest the materies morhi be injected into the lymph spaces around the region operated upon. Most of the major and minor operations of surgery have now been performed under the infiltration method of local ansesthesia. The shock to the patient and the strain upon the nervous system from the ordeal of conscious, even if painless, presence at the operation on his own body constitute the chief drawbacks to the method. Undoubtedly in cases in which a general anaesthetic is for any reason considered undesirable, the infiltration method offers a valuable alternative course. ^ The injection of cocaine, even in small doses, is never free from risk. Fatal syncope has fol- lowed from quite minute doses. There is also the further danger of inducing the cocaine habit. There are no signs by which a patient can be discriminated as one for whom cocaine should not be used. In cases of cocaine poisoning after injection, artificial respiration and the employ- ment of cardiac stimulants should be resorted to {see "Cocaine"). Local anaesthesia by freezing the tissues was suggested by the late Sir Benjamin Ward Richardson, who employed a special form of ether and sprayed it over the part to be made insensitive. Ethyl chloride and methyl chloride, or in combination, have been used in like manner. These bodies are kept in glass tubes, and the liquid allowed to flow over the skin, which is thus rendered insensitive by the cool- ing caused by the rapid evaporation of the anaesthetic. This means of securing painless- ness is not devoid of drawbacks, and is only serviceable in the most trivial of operations. [The addition of adrenalin or of " hemisine " (B. W. k Co.'s preparation) to solutions of cocaine or eucaine (for hypodermic use) in- creases the efficacy of the latter and diminishes their toxic effects.] Ethyl Chloride Since the year 1900, Ethyl Chloride {chlor- ethyl or hydrochloric ether) has come somewhat extensively into use as a general anaesthetic. Its power of producing unconsciousness was noticed during its employment in the form of spray as a local antesthetic in dental practice; and it was at first suspected and later deter- mined that it could be inhaled with safety to induce general anaesthesia. It is the active ingredient in the proprietary preparations known as " Kelene " and " Somnoform." It is specially in dental work and for the performance of minor surgical operations that it has established a claim upon the profession ; a few deaths, however, have resulted from its administration. ^ For an account of Braun and Heintze'.s methods see "A Clinical Lecture on Local Infiltration Analgesia," by A. B. Barker, F.R.C.S., Lanat, Feb. 1899. In its physical characters, ethyl chloride (aethyl chloridum) is a colourless liquid, with a low boiling point, volatilising at the ordinary temperature, very combustible, and readily soluble in alcohol. It has a sweetish taste. Its chemical formula is C^H^Cl; that of ethylic alcohol (ethyl hydroxide) being CHjOH. It has a solvent effect on vulcanite, and that substance should not, therefore, be used in the construction of any part of the inhaler. For the administration of ethyl chloride an ordinary Clover's inhaler is used, the ether chamber being removed, and the face-piece (with pneumatic pad) and the angle - mount (holding the red rubber bag of one gallon capacity) attached. Daniell {Lancet, ii. for 1905, p. 1176) recommends that to the angle- mount should be fitted a large metal tap and tube, the latter projecting into the bag; to the tap is attached a small measure of thick glass, graduated to show 3, 4, and 5 cb. cms.; and a. short piece of red rubber tubing connects this glass to the tap. Of course the ether chamber can be retained when it is desired to give ethyl chloride with ether or as a sequence. The patient should have had no food for at least two hours before the administration of the ethyl chloride, and the bladder and rectum should be empty. The horizontal postiire is to be preferred, and there should be no tight cloth- ing round the neck or waist. The ethyl chloride is poured into the glass measure (say 5 c.c), and this is attached to the closed tap. The face-piece, with the measure pointing downwards, is then accurately applied at the end of an in- sjjiration, and the patient told to breathe quietly. The angle-mount is rotated until the glass measure becomes almost horizontal, and the tap is opened; the fluid will then, by slight elevation of the measure, flow slowly through the tap and tube and into the bag. Un- consciousness ensues in about 20 seconds, and full anaethesia in from 40 to 45 seconds ; the available period of anaesthesia for operating is about 70 seconds, but by giving a larger dose (7 c.c.) a longer time can be obtained. As a rule cyanosis, stertor, and involuntary micturi- tion do not occur with either ethyl chloride or somnoform. The after-effects are slight, con- sisting mainly of transitory nausea, headache, and (rarely) vomiting; other ill consequences have been noted, but only, as a rule, after pro- longed anaesthesia. Ethyl chloride may be given alone (as de- scribed above), or it may be given with nitrous oxide, when of course the apparatus needed has the nitrous oxide cylinder added to it. Nitrous oxide may be rebreathed for 10 seconds, then the ethyl chloride is added, and the mixture given for 40 or 50 seconds. Ethyl chloride may also be used to induce anaesthesia, which is afterwards kept up with ether or chloroform. In this way it can be employed not only as the sole