BALNEOLOGY 359 200, a remarkably dry winter climate. Miiriated and muriated «nlphur springs at 90" K. Tnliala- tions. Douciie and ftther baths. Algiers has many valuable thermal spas. The water of Bai\s-de-la-Reine (near Oran) is nnu'iated, at 130° F., as also that of Hammam Mel(juan. Ham.man R'Luia has hot calcareous and chalylieate waters, and Hammam Meskutin a hyperthermal water at 203° F. Maha (Abyssiniii) has bitter waters, and Okme (Nul)ia) warm sulphur springs. L\I>IA As in all volcanic countries, so in India, minei'al springs abomid, hut very few of them have at ])resent been subjected to scientihc investigation and analysis. Those in particular that occur at high altitudes might prol)ably prove valuable to Europeans. 2'heiimal Si>r[.\i;s.—Of this class there is a. large number in India, especially in the Tenas- serim provinces. In the Hazahibaoh district (Bengal), the country, for more than 100 miles in all directions, is teeming with thermal springs, at an altitude of about 1500 feet. At Munni- KARN (Jalandhar Doab) there is a boiling fountain (207° F.) at an elevation of 5587 feet, as w'ell as waters containing iodine and bromine. There are also many in the Himalayas and in SiNDH. SuLi'iii'RDVs Thermal Waters are also numer- ous in India. Among the better known are :— Jawala Mukhi ("Flames mouth"), in the Kangra district of the Punjaub. There are here many sources, some of a. I'emarlvable character, containing iodine as well as sul})hur. They are used especially for goitre, from which the local inhabitants are said to be exempt. Combustible gas issues in jets, which are kept constantly burning as a manifestation of the Hindu goddess Devi. There is also a sacred sulphuroTis spring at Danera. At Sona (near Delhi) there are sulphur waters with a considerable establish- ment ; also in the Hazaribagh district, and at high elevations in the Jalandhar Doab (Beshisht, 6681); also at Dar.jiling, at Cannea (Ceylon), at Malacca, and elsewhere. Muriated springs are universal through the Salt Ra.ncje (Punjaub), and occur in Western Sindh. Chalybeate waters are fomid in parts of the Himalaya and in the Neilgherries, and at Nagconda in the Simla hills. America and Canada Ai.KAi.ixi; Waters. — Among Californian springs, the Ojo Caliente is a thermal (100° F.) and weakly muriated alkaline water. The Sara- toga "Vichy " (New York State) is a somewhat similar source, but cold. .}frRrATEr) Waters.—There are many brines and muriated springs in America, artesian and other. At Saratoga, the Hawthorn and some other soui'ces are of this kind; also Blue Lick Sprixg.s (Kentucky), and Saint Catharine's Well and the Caledonia Springs in (Ontario, among others Canadian. Hvij'iiATET) OR Hitter Waters are compara- tively scarce in America. That of Crab Orchard (Kentucky) is one of the best known. SriRiiuRETTED Waters are numerous in the States of New York and Virginia. Sidphurous inhalations are used at Richfield (N.Y.). The Salt Sulphur Spring (West Virginia), the Paroquet Spring (Kentucky), the Sharon and White Sulphur Springs (in the State of New York), and the Sandwich Spring (in Ontario), are among the best known in the Noi-th Ameri- can continent. New Zealand The most interesting mineral springs of New Zealand occur in the province of Auckland. Tarawera is a thermal water at 130° F. At Taupo, 1500, there is an important group of hot springs. (1) The Croiu's Nest spring is muriated and has a temperature of 170° F. ; (2) The Ruahine is still hotter, 190° F., and contains some free acid; (3) Thermal sulphurous; and (4) Alkaline siliceous waters. Te Aroha, 350, has sulphurous muriated, alkaline, and efferves- cing carbonated waters. Ohtnemutu, 962, is situated on the southern shore of Lake Rotorua, the centre of the hot spring disti'ict. Among the chief sources are:—(1) The Priesfs Bath, which is described as an acid, sulphurous water containing alum, at 98° to 106° F. There are here piseinte, wdiicli are said to form " the finest bath in the southern hemisphere." (2) Jiaehel's Bath, a soft saline water at 194° F. (3) 7'he Blue Bath, containing "salines and silicates," at 140° F. Mud baths are also given. It was in the neighbourhood of Ohineinutu that the famous " pink and white terraces" were de- stroyed by volcanic eruption in 1886. Japan SuLrnuRous Thermae Waters. — Kusatsu, 3500, is the most celebrated of the Japanese spas. The waters are hyperthermal, and con- tain much sulphur, and also (it is said) arsenic and copper. The temperature of the " Fever Bath " is 150° F., that of the " Eagle Bath " some- what cooler. A remarkable feature is the amount of free sulphuric acid in some of the baths. They are nuich used, and at very high temperatures, for syphilis, leprosy, and severe forms of rheumatism. Ashinoya (near Lake Hakone) possesses many hot sulphur springs and solfataras. It is frequented by the Japanese for skin affections and syphilis. Yumoto, 5061, and NiKKO (in the same district) have similar waters. LTnzen, near Nagasaki, is also a sulphur spring. Among Chalybeate Waters are Ikao, 2700, " a cool and pleasant" resort near Nagasaki; and Arima (near Kobe), with hot iron springs and