164 ANEURYSM Progress and Terminations . . .167 Complications . - . . .168 Diagnosis . . . . . .169 of Various Forms Prognosis . . . . . .170 Treatment . . . . . .170 General Local Elevation and Bandaging Ice Excision and Incision Ligature Amputation Needling Electrolysis Introduction of Foreign Bodies Ma nipula tion Injection of Coagulants Injection of Ergotin Compression . . ■ . ■ .173 Digital Instrumental Dissecting Aneurysm : Intramural H/e- matoma . . . . • .176 Arterial H.«matoma . . . .176 Arterio-Venous Intercommunications . 177 The Upper Limb ..... 178 The Neck 181 Diagnosis of Aneurysms at the Root oj the Neck The Lower Limb . . . . .183 See also Abdominal Aneurysm (q/^o»'<a,, Coeliac Axis, Gastric, Splenic, Hepatic, Mesenteric, and Renal Artery); Aorta, Thoracic ; Arteries, Diseases of ; Bone, Diseases of (Aneurysm); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels ; Capil- laries, Diseases of ; Cough ; Heart, Myo- cardium {Cardiac Aneurysm); Mediastinum ; Orbit, Diseases of the ; and Therapeutics, Health Resorts. Anatomy of Aneurysm.—Aneurysms occur of all sizes, from that which is just visible (pulmonary, cerebral) up to that even of an adult head. Number. — Whilst miliary aneurysms are often numerous, large aneurysms are usually single. It is not rare, however, to find (1) symmetrical arteries (especially the two pop- liteals) dilated, (2) two to four aneurysms upon the same main trunk, e.g. femoro-popliteal, or (3) an external aneurysm combined with an internal. Three and even four distinct sacs have been found springing from the aortic arch— itself uniformly dilated. It is said that as many as sixty-three aneurysms have been counted in one subject. Cases such as these have caused some to use the expression "aneurysmal diathesis," a condition which, like that in which multiple fractures occur, has as yet no anatomical basis. Form.—An aneurysm may be " fusiform " when the vessel is uniformly dilated, or "saccular" when only a limited part of the wall is affected. Sometimes it is of a " mixed" type, due to the development of a saccule from a fusiform aneurysm. Structure of the Sac.—In both forms of aneurysm, but more especially in the saccular, the sac is formed, not by any part of the original vessel wall, but by a more or less dense layer of fibrous tissue which has been derived from the following sources :— (1) From inflammatory and reparative pro- cesses arising in the original arterial tissue and tissue of the sac. (2) From organisation of clot adherent to its inner surface. (3) From the con- nective tissue of parts with which the aneurysm has blended. In this tissue nerves and other important structures may be involved. The situation of an aneurysm, the nature of the surrounding tissues, and the rapidity of its growth, are the main factors determining the relative thickness of its wall. With regard to the artery from which an aneurysm has sprung, it was until recently sup- posed that it was always sclerotic, degenerate, and unsuitable for ligature; but examination has shown that theory to be wrong. The vessel may be diseased, it is true, but it is just as prob- able, if not more probable, that the popliteal in a case of popliteal aneurysm will be tit for ligature as that the femoral in Scarpa's space will be so. Contents.—Fluid blood and laminated clot in varying proportions constitute the contents of all aneurysms. Organised connective tissue is met with very exceptionally, owing to the diminished vitality and deficient vascularity and reparative power in the wall of the vessel. The relative proportions of laminated clot and fluid blood vary according to the form of aneurysm, the laminated clot being naturally less pro- nounced in fusiform cases owing to the free circulation through the swelling. Etiology.—There are two factors in the pro- duction of an aneurysm: (a) the blood- pressure ; (b) the resistance of the arterial wall. (a) Heightened Blood-pn'essure.—Normal blood- pressure may rupture elements in or even the whole thickness of a weakened artery; heightened blood-pressure will do this the more easily, and is itself a cause of arterial disease. Eppinger goes so far as to say that all spontaneous aneurysms are traiimatic, in that they begin in slight ruptures of the media. Heightened blood - pressure is produced for longer or shorter periods by violent efforts or prolonged exertion. In many of these not only is the heart acting more rapidly and strongly, but it is opposed by increased resistance, owing to the steadily maintained contraction of large numbers of muscles compressing the intra- muscular capillaries. Efforts out of proportion to the strength of the individual, undertaken without suitable "training," especially by those who are approaching middle age, may easily I result in slight ruptures of the media—lesions