BALNEOLOGY 348 pressure douche is not at all adapted to con- ditions of vascular or nervous debility, especially when applied to the trunk. On the other hand, large volumes of subthermal water at little or no 2:>ressure produce a grateful and sedative effect, and can be safely and properly applied in con- ditions of great weakness and in many cases of organic heart affection. Massage can be com- bined with all forms of the douche, as at Aix- les-Bains. It is probably more effectual in connection with baths, because the tissues are mollified and the superficial layers of epidermis are readily removed. Here, again, the vigour of the application should be carefully adapted to the requirements of the case. The douche and douche-massage are potent agencies, and the regulation of temperature, pressure, and the amount of manual stimulation cannot safely be left to the discretion of attendants. The position of the patient is also a point of some little importance, and a reclining posture is advisable in some cases. Among special forms of the douche may be mentioned the Douche J&cossais in which the temperature of the water constantly alternates between hot and cold, the needle, spray, shower, and wave douche, and the spinal douche, also the " submarine " douche in connection with immersion baths. The douche can be used in a great variety of ways locally, for example the so-called " ascending" douche, as an application for haemorrhoids, pro- lapsus ani and uteri, and for uterine congestion, leucorrhoea and dysmenorrhcea. Hypothermal local douches are often of advantage in local inflammatory states; and for the ojaposite con- dition of feeble and degenerate nutrition, with exudation, stiffness, and swelling, the thermal douche is equally appropriate. 3. Peat and Mud Baths. — (Frarizensbad, Dax). (a) The peat or moor baths of the Bohemian spas contain a considerable quantity of iron (from 7 to 15 per cent of the dried material) as well as some free sulphuric and other acids. In addition to the thermal ele- ment, the contact and pressure of the semi-solid mass on the body affect the circulation and nerve endings. Peat baths are believed to act in virtue of a special stimulation or excitation of the skin, both mechanical and chemical. They are prescribed in torpidity of the skin and circulation, in superficial neuralgias and neuritis, in disorders of common sensation, in chronic rheumatic affections, and to promote the absorption of morbid deposits. Their use is contra-indicated in excessive nervous irrita- bility and serious vascular degeneration. As the specific heat of the peat bath is less than that of water, a comparatively high temperature can be borne without undue constitutional dis- turbance. Peripheral stimulation is decidedly more active in the peat bath than in water at the same temperature. There is, however, in peat baths a greater sense of pressure than in water baths, which makes it wise in most cases not to cover the upper part of the chest. Be- sides those in Bohemia (Franzensbad, Marien- bad, etc.), the principal peat baths are met with in Germany (Pyrmont, Schwalbach, Elster, Driburg, etc.). Similar baths are used at Lipetsz in Russia, and Strathpeffer in Scotland. (6) Mineral mud baths (French Bains de Boue) are of very various kinds. In many of them, such as those at Sandefjord in Norway and in the Crimea, the principal constituent is common salt. Others are composed of the mineral and organic deposits from thermal springs, like those at Dax and the Italian spas. Many contain iron or sulphur and arsenic in appreciable qviantities. The action of these baths depends not only on their temperature and constituents, but on the special ways in which they are employed. Some are applied with frictions (Sweden), and many are used for the most part locally to diseased parts (Battaglia). The brine or marine mud baths have been es- pecially recommended in rheumatism, in old syphilis, and in contractions, the result of wounds. Among the spas where mud baths are employed may be mentioned Dax, St. Amand, and Balaruc in France; Meinburg, Nenndorf, and Kissengen in Germany; Acqui, Battaglia, Vinadio, and others in Italy ; Laur- vig, Modum, Sandefjord in Norway; and Loka in Sweden. They are also used in the Baltic provinces and on the Black Sea, in New Mexico (Las Vegas), in Japan, etc. 4. Vapour Baths. (It. Stufe, Fr. Etuves).— A natural vapour bath is provided wherever warm vapours issue in a grotto or cave, or are artificially led from their source or from the surface of thermal water to an appropriate chamber or "bouillon." In temperature they vary from 80° to 120° or 130° F. Above that heat aqueous vapour is intolerable. The hot vapour condenses on the surface of the body with the development of heat, but without the pressure effects of ordinary baths. Per- spiration is rapidly induced, the epidermis softened, and the circulation and nutrition of the skin increased. The pulse is increased in fulness and frequency, and, if the head is in- cluded, there is corresponding fulness of the pulmonary capillaries. It is held that these baths promote the resolution of lymphatic en- gorgements and remove indurations and con- cretions in the neighbourhood of joints. They also help to soften the harsh, hard, thickened, and inactive skin, and promote the healing of sluggish ulcers. The influence on the nervous centres varies with the temperature. It is sedative if the effect of moisture predominates over that of heat. If the contrary be the case an unpleasant excitement and elevation of temperature occur, with subsequent malaise. It has been well said that the heat of a vapour bath (as, indeed, of any other thermal applica-