112 disease the patches never become perfectly bald, but produce throughout the duration of the attack an irregular growth of shoi't, weak, slightly pigmented hair. This condition may last for some time, and may either end in diminished production of hair, and the occurrence of complete baldness, or the case may progress satisfactorily, the production of hair becoming gradually more normal in its character. The cases in which the lanugo persists are, as a rule, favourable, but occasionally the growth of the lanugo may persist for years, repeatedly forming and falling, and after all terminate in complete baldness. Histology.—In parts where the disease is well established there is usually found on microscopic examination of the skin slight infiltration of round cells in the neighbourhood of the hair papilla and follicle. Within the follicle itself it is possible to observe more than one fine hair lying bent or curved upon itself, being unable to emerge from the follicle. In such cases the papilla is usually small and shrunken in size. In cases ending in permanent baldness the round- cell infiltration passes on to the formation of new fibrous tissue, so that the papillae and skin show cicatricial changes which account both for the de- struction of the papillae and hair and the slightly atrophic character of the skin. Recently the histology and etiology of alopecia areata have been reinvestigated by Dr. R. Sabouraud in Paris. This observer describes the bacterium which had been previously observed by Unna, Hodara, and Engmann in the interior of comedones, and by many observers in cases of seborrhcea oleosa, as the specific organism of alopecia areata. This organism is a minute bacillus, and is found to grow in enormous numbers in the mouths of the hair follicles, especially at the margins of the patches, in alopecia areata. As a result of this growth there is formed a cocoon-like mass of desquamated epithelial cells, sebaceous material, and bacilli occupying an ampulliform dilatation of the upper part of the hair follicle described by Sabouraud as the " utricle peladique."' In this ampulla, and in uncomplicated cases of the disease, the micro-bacillus exists in pure culture. As a result of these alterations and obstruction at the mouth of the follicle, and possibly owing to the toxins produced by the micro-bacilli them- selves, the hair papilla undergoes atrophy, the hair falls out, the papilla continues to attempt to produce new hairs, which are weaker and still weaker and finally fail to emerge from the follicle. In consequence the lower part of the hair follicle may contain several minute recurved hairs, the results of repeated growths from the papilla. Sabouraud has succeeded in cultivating this organism, and describes its characters. He arrives at the conclusion that it occurs both in seborrhcea oleosa and in alopecia areata and is presumably the cause of both diseases. The ex- ternal evidence by inoculation has not yet been offered, but nevertheless Sabouraud ventures the conclusion that " seborrhcea oleosa and alopecia areata are essentially identical processes." The patch of alopecia is nothing else than an attack of acute circinate seborrhcea, and conversely bald persons would not have become bald but for a diffuse attack of chronic alopecia areata. In a later communication the same author declares that the specific micro - bacillus of seborrhcea oleosa, when it gains access to one of the pilo- sebaceous follicles, produces within it four con- stant results:— (a) Hypersecretion of sebum. (b) Hypertrophy of the sebaceous gland. (c) Progressive atrophy of the papilla. (d) Death of the hair. It will be observed, however, that the evidence in support of the specific action of the micro- bacillus is by no means complete, and that Sabouraud brings together under one category cases of seborrhcea oleosa with true seborrhceic baldness and alopecia areata, conditions which most observers still hold to be distinct. The final results of the process which give rise to atrophy of the papilla and the production of new fibrous tissue in its neighbourhood are confirmed by Sabouraud's researches. It must be mentioned also that parasites belonging to the group of the hyphomycetes have been described in the hair follicles of cases of alopecia areata. Recent researches into the mycology of ringworm have shown that certain varieties of the trichophyta produce areas of circinate baldness closely resembling the lesions of alopecia areata; careful examination, however, of these patches of so-called " bald ringworm " shows the presence of trichophyta in the usual positions, and there can be little doubt that the cases of alopecia areata in which hyphomycetes have been seen are examples of this exceptional form of ringworm. The clinical evidence in favour of true alopecia areata being a disease due to the action of a parasite is considerable, and is based on its method of growth, and from certain observations which have been made on the occurrence of the disease, or a condition closely simxilating the disease, simultaneously in members of the same family, and in a few small epidemics. Many of these cases no doubt have been examples of the form of " bald ringworm" already alluded to; still, a certain amount of evidence and the opinion of many careful observers are in favour of the parasitic origin of the disease. There are many difficulties in the way of accepting Sabouraud's statement that the micro-bacillus described by him is the specific cause, apart from the absence of experimental evidence, and his hypothesis is not accepted by clinicians nor by most histo- logists. At the present time, therefore, we are not in a position to identify the parasite which is probably concerned in the production of true alopecia areata.