ANAESTHETICS—BROMIDE OF ETHYL 159 fn.'C in the inoutli. Gags should always be secured out of the mouth and be placed upon teeth sufficiently strong to withstand sj^asmodic contraction of the jaw muscles. In the case of epileptic patients a fit is lial)lc to occur as the patient is passing into narcosis, and unless the gag is properly secured, carefidly placed, and sufficiently strong, it may be bitten through or may displace teeth. Bromide of Ethyl, although much in vogue at one time, h;is been shown to be dangerous, and it can only be employed for brief opera- tions. Its action appears to be cardio-depres- sant, and to lessen arterial tension (Wood and Tiiornton), so it is not to be recommended for i-outine use. It is an unstalile body, rapidl}' undergoing decomposition if exposed to light and air; when at all coloured it should not be used, as impure specimens contain free bromine, and are both irritating and dangerous when respired. Patients pass very rapidly under the influence of bromide of ethyl with little excitement, but muscidar rigidity usually persists, although some authori- ties deny this. The ocular reflex is not lost, and owing to the great volatility of bromethyl the anaesthesia is very brief, disappearing almost as soon as the inhalation is closed. It should be given from a closed inhaler, all air being ex- cluded. Silk, following the plan of Schneider, pours one to one and a half drachms upon the sponge of an Ormsliy's inhaler, and only removes the face-piece when palatine stertor is feared. The patient should abstain from food, and be in the horizontal position. It nuist not be used for other than l)rief ojserations. Bromethyl has been extensively used in the operation for re- moval of adenoid post-nasal growths. Although several specialists have so used it, and placed their patients in the vertical position, the undoubted tendency to syncope which this anaesthetic produces, and the increased hajmor- rhage which its use involves, do not recommend it for this class of cases. I'liNTAL, possessing the same formula as amy- lene, a body introduced by the late Dr. Snow as an anesthetic, has been carefully' investigated by Cerna, who regarded it as a dangerous anres- thetie, from its cardio-depressant properties. It is said to cause albuminuria and even haematuria. Others deny these allegations, and regard pental as a useful anaesthetic for children. I cannot think it possesses any advantages over chloro- form ; its smell is disagreeable, and its after- effects are no less than those following chloro- form given for the brief operations in which pental has been employed. It is given in the same way as chloroform, but a more concen- trated vapour is used. Local Anaesthesia.—Extensive experimenta- tion has led Schleich to propose a plan whereViy not only the superficial but the deeper struc- tures can be rendered anaesthetic by his " infil- tration method." His suggestion and that (jf Reclus have been modified, extended, and im- proved upon.i The method consists in a careful sterilisation of the skin, the employment of sterilised solu- tion of cocaine in saline solution with morphine added. Schleich's solutions are— I. II. III. Cocain.Hydrochlor.0-2 O-I 0-01 Morph.Hydrochlor.0-02 0-02 0-OOr) Sod. Chlor. . .0-2 0-2 0-2 Aq. destill. ad 100-0(sterilisat.) 100-0 lOO'O Eucaine Bis recommended by Braun and Heintze, with omission of the morphine, this anaesthetic being selected as it can be boiled without decomposition, and as it appears to be less toxic than either cocaine or eucaine. A solution containing Eucaine B, Sodium Chloride, and warm water is, after lieing boiled, kept warm in a glass vessel; a large, specially- constructed hypodermic syringe holding 5 c.c. is then filled, the needle is carefully inserted en- dermically for its length, and then gradually withdrawn, the fluid being forced into the skin until a wheal results. The needle is reintroduced into the periphery of this wheal, and a further wheal made along the line of the proposed inci- sion. As now the skin is anaesthetic the needle is introduced in the same line subdermically, further injection being made, and afterwards the deeper tissues are infiltrated in the same way. An anresthetic oedema is thus produced, which in a few minutes makes cutting painless. When structures are being handled which cannot be injected, such as the peritoneum, the solution should l)e injected over them from time to time from the syringe. The anaesthesia lasts from ten to twenty minutes, but, of course, can be renewed by fresh injections. It is of the utmost importance to ensure asepsis in the solution and in the apparatus employed. Loose tissues such as those of the tongue, etc., should never he infiltrated; fatal cedema of the glottis has residted from inattention to this rule. Patients subjected to operation under the in- filtration method occasionally become extremely faint and may vomit. Save for this, there is no reason why they should not have their ordinary meals, indeed it is recommended by some Ger- man surgeons to give a full meal and alcohol before the infiltration takes place. When the iiollow viscera are opei-ated upon, this method does not at present seem to be always successful. It answers hest where the area of operation is small, or where the tissues are sufficiently dense to avoid the oedema rapidly forcing the in- filtrated fluid into adjoining areas; it is not ' Full details of this metliod can be found in Schmerdose O/ieraiionen, von Dr. C. L. Schleicli. Berlin, 1899. 2 The solution of Eucaine B is 1 part in 1000 of normal .saline solution (sodium chloride 8 parts), by weight.