299 ASEPSIS—ANTISEPTICS use various means which kill bacteria outright. That which kills bacteria is called a disinfectant, the process of killing them is called disinfection, and the result is asepsis. Agents which prevent or I'etard the growth and action of bacteria are called antiseptic. The chief methods of disinfection have been referred to under the heading " aseptic surgery." Further information is given in the article " Dis- infection." Actions of Antiseptics— Exclusion.—But it is also requisite to exclude bacteria from the wound, both during the opera- tion and during the ^jrocess of repair. For this purpose various chemicals are now in the form of lotions, powders, and di'essings, and are called antiseptics. The final resxilt is intended to be the total absence of bacteria-asepsis. Inhibition.—Antiseptics are also used with another object in view, viz. to prevent bacteria from multiplying in or about the wound. In Koch's experiments with sublimate, the spores of anthrax were not killed but ceased to germinate. As Klein aptly puts it, the spore or bacterium is "stunned" by the chemical. This inhibitory action of antiseptics is their most valuable property. Attenuation.—Besides limiting the number of bacteria, antiseptics have another action. Tiie experiments of Camberland and Roux clearly proved that when anthrax bacilli were grown in the presence of minute quantities of antiseptics, such as carbolic acid or bichromate of potash, they underwent a permanent attenua- tion and ceased to kill. Indeed, cultures pi'e- pared in this way have been used for purposes of vaccination to produce immunity. Neutralisation of Ptomaines.—Another of the properties of antiseptics is illustrated by iodoform. Behring has proved that it can neutralise the toxines of ptomaines produced by bacteria. He ascertained that Brieger's cada- verin caused suppuration when introduced pure into the cellular tissue of animals. A mixture of iodoform and cadaverin did not have such an effect. Mechanical Action.—Some antiseptic powders seem to have a mechanical action. Colonies of bacteria growing upon culture media cease to spread under a layer of finely-powdered iodoform, starch, or sugar. But this only occurs when the powder is finely triturated and dry. Defrivation of Water. — The last point illustrates the way in which some chemicals act as antiseptics by depriving bacteria of their needful supply of moisture. A plentiful supply of water is essential to the multiplication of all bacteria; certainly, of all of those which are met with in disease. It is to be noted that in this case the chemical only acts as an antiseptic, preventing the multiplication of the bacteria. When some bacteria are deprived of water they at once form spores which are endowed with extraordinary tenacity of life ; anthrax, tetanus, and the bacillus septicus are examples. Fortu- nately they are seldom met with in surgery. Oxygenation. — Some chemicals owe their antiseptic properties to the power which they possess of liberating oxygen. Many of the anaerobic putrefactive bacteria perish or cease to multiply in the presence of free oxygen or of ozone. Permanganate of potash or peroxide of hydrogen act in this manner. The latter may also liberate oxygen in the more active form of ozone. Deoxiuation.—Chemicals may also act by depriving bacteria of oxygen. In the bacterio- logical laboratory, pyrogallic acid is used for this purpose, and prevents the growth of aerobic bacteria. Antiseptics of this kind are not of surgical value. Mode of Action of Chemical and other. Agents.—Much remains to be learnt about the action of chemicals upon bacteria. Henle and others suggest a chemical combination may occui", so that a given quantity of the chemical can only combine with a given quantity of bacteria. A sufficiency of the chemical must therefore be provided and maintained. In the case of carbolic acid, which is volatile, resin is used to fix it in the dressings. But chemicals combine with other substances be- sides bacteria. Much of the efficacy of sub- limate is lost because it combines with albumen to form an insoluble albuminate of mercury. This is overcome by converting the sublimate into ammonio-mercuric chloride or sal alembroth. The biniodide of mercury owes its great efficacy to the fact that it does not enter into combina- tion with albumen. Some chemicals, such as alcohol, act by co- agulating the microprotein of the bacterium, and possibly by depriving it of water. The alcoholic series, however, do not possess any marked antiseptic properties. They are, how- ever, the most valuable adjuncts to enable other chemicals to penetrate grease. It is possible that some chemicals owe their antiseptic properties to decomposition, which is supposed to occur when bacteria are j^resent. For instance, it has been stated that iodoform liberated iodine in the presence of pyogenic or putrefactive bacteria. Although I have kept mixtures of putrid pus and iodoform at body temperature for twenty-four hours, I have been unable to confirm this statement. The antiseptic pi-operties which have been mentioned are possessed in varying degrees by liffhf, cold, heat, electricity, some mechanical agencies, and by a vast number of cltemical sub- stances. To this list might be added the fluids and tissues of the healthy human body, which are known to have considerable power to kill or prevent the growth of bacteria. The strict definition of disinfectants and of