BLADDER, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF 394 much more frequently, of different elements, often arranged in concentric laminfe (alternating or mixed calculus). A common form is one composed of a nucleus or central portion of uric acid; a body or intermediate portion of oxalate of lime, or alternating layers of this substance and uric acid; and a crust or ex ■ ternal layer of phosphates. Sometimes two nuclei are present. Physical Characters.— Uric acid calciili are generally ovoid in shape, with a finely granular or smooth surface, and are of a fawn or brownish colour. They are of hard consistence, and on section present a laminated appearance. Oxalate of lime calculi are more globular, with a rough, tuberculated surface, somewhat resembling a mulberry, hence the term, "Mulberry calculus," often applied to them. They are of a dark lirown colour, of very hard consistence and heavier than the other varieties, presenting on section a crystalline or laminated appearance. Phosphatic calculi consist usually of a mixture of triple phosphate (ammonio-magnesium phos- phate), and phosphate of lime. They are often larger than the preceding varieties, and not in- frequently somewhat irregular in shape, mould- ing themselves to pouches or depressions in the bladder. 1'hey are of a whitish colour and chalk-like in appearance, sometimes laminated on section, and of softish consistence, being much lighter than the preceding varieties. The nucleus usually consists of uric acid or oxalate of lime, or a foreign body, it being uncommon to meet with a calculus which is phosphatic throughout, except in certain cases of chronic cystitis, where they sometimes form in pouches in the bladder. Cystine, or cystic oxide, calculi contain a large quantity of sulphur, and are of a yellowish-grey colour: they present a peculiar waxy appear- ance, and sometimes become green after ex- posure to the air. Number.—Calculi are usually single, especi- ally in children, but they may be multiple, and under these circumstances they often present a facetted surface from rubbing against one another. Size. — Though calculi present considerable variation in size, sometimes attaining consider- able dimensions, they are usually about a half to one and a half inches in diameter, as met with in practice. The largest are generally those which are mainly of a phosphatic nature. Position. — Calculi usually lie loose and movable in the bladder. In adults who are the subjects of enlarged prostate, they often lie in pouches or depressions behind the gland, iinder these circumstances not changing their position. Occasionally, they are encysted, lying partly or entirely in saccules in the bladder-wall. Spontaneous fracture of a calciilus sometimes occurs in the bladder, the causation of which is difficult to explain. It has been variously attri- buted to pressure from the contraction of a hypertrophied bladder-wall; to chemical changes in the interior of the stone; to infilti-ation of urine into a crack or fissure ; and in cases where two or more calculi are present, to concussion of one against another. The Symptoms of stone admit of considerable variation, depending somewhat on its size and shape, and also upon its nature, one which is rough and irregular generally causing more pain than another whose surface is smooth, especially if cystitis is present. They are also modified to some extent by the position of the stone and the age of the patient. Pain is usually complained of in the bladder, especially about its neck, and also in surrounding parts, e.g. perineum, groin, thigh, and end of the penis. It is generally in- creased by exercise, or any sudden or jolting- movement, and is worse towards the end of, or immediately after, micturition, for, when the bladder empties itself, the stone falls upon, and is pressed against, the neck, the most sensitive portion of the viscus. Pain is generally a pro- minent symptom in children, owing to the fact that at this age there is hardly any base or fundus to the bladder, consequently the stone always tends to rest upon its neck. In adults, when the prostate is enlarged, pain is often less severe and may be altogether absent, for the stone then rests in a depression behind the gland, " post-prostatic pouch," which prevents it from coming into contact with the sensitive neck, even when the bladder is empty. For a similar reason, when encysted, pain may be slight or sometimes absent. Sudden interruption in the flow of urine is often produced owing to the stone falling upon the neck of the bladder and blocking temporarily the vesical orifice of the urethra, but as in the case of pain, this sign may be absent when the stone is encysted or lies in a pouch behind an enlarged prostate. Hoimaturia, though not as a rule a prominent symptom, is often present from time to time, especially after any active exercise. It has the usual characteristics of vesical haemorrhage, the blood in many cases only appearing at the end of micturition, so that the urine first passed is clear, the last few drops being of a bright red or pinkish colour, and sometimes containing small clots. Frequent Micturition, often accompanied by more or less straining, especially in children, is almost always a prominent symptom, and an altered condition of the urine is usually observed after a time, pyuria and other evidences of chronic cystitis being present in consequence of the irritation caused by the calculus. In addi- tion to the preceding, one or more of the foilowinr} symptoms are frequently met with, viz. incon- tinence or retention of urine, priapism, constant handling of the prepuce in children in order to relieve the pain, which is referred to the end of