298 ASEPTIC TREATMENT OF WOUNDS operation. A freshly made wound is very sus- ceptible to infection, and the results of infection at any of the dressings may be disastrous. Therefore the bowls, materials, and instruments used ought all to be sterilised. The hands of the surgeon or of his assistants ought also to be sterilised. Properly disinfected towels should be provided to surround the wound and make a "field of operation." An assistant or nurse should remove the bandages and outside cover- ings. The wound should be exposed for as short a time as possible. Usually it is instantly dusted with a layer of iodoform powder or covered with aseptic gauze, after which the drainage tube is taken out. Afterwards the same kind of dressing as that which was used at the operation is applied. The disinfection of the skin is now so perfect that it is unnecessary to apply any disinfecting lotions before removal of the stitches. Everything beneath the dress- ing is sterile. The stitches, therefore, cannot infect the wound when they are withdrawn. Generally speaking, the wound ought to be kept as dry as possible. If the cut edges come apart, the removal of the stitches ought to be delayed also when they hold together the abdominal walls. Aseptic sutures may remain for many weeks. It is most objectionable to place strap- ping under the dressing. This practice not infrequently leads to suppuration. In some regions occlusive dressings of iodoform collodion are of great value, as in plastic opera- tions about the face and neck, or after circum- cision. This is easily provided by simply soaking iodoform gauze in flexible collodion, and apply- ing it in several layers over the wound. At the same time some fresh iodoform is dusted on. When the field of operation contains an ulcerated surface, as, for example, an ulcerated scirrhus of the breast, a similar occlusive dress- ing is applied and kept on during the opei-ation. The Evidences of Asepticity.—The clinical evidences of asepticity are general and local. When the effects of the anaesthesia have passed away and shock has been followed by reaction, the pulse and temperatui'e fall, the appetite returns, and the patient is like one recovering from a simple fracture. An elevation of the temperature or pulse does not usually indicate infection of the wound, but may be caused by dermatitis, bronchitis, or some intercurrent malady. Pain in the back is almost constant after fractures and operations, and probably indicates hypostatic engorgement of the muscles. Pain about the attachments of the diaphragm often follows anaesthesia, especially when the breathing has been forcible and violent. The local clinical signs of aseptic repair are absence of pain in the wound, and when the dress- ing is removed an entire absence of redness or swelling. Aseptic wounds are qtdte dry, and any moisture is almost certainly indicative of sepsis. But the only final and scientific proof of asepsis is obtained by testing the wound with culture media. For this purpose a suture is usually dropped into nutrient broth, or a gelatine tube is inoculated with a platinum wire drawn along the wound. All this is done with the usual bacteriological precautions. Of late we have frequently succeeded in obtaining ideal results. By this I mean that tlie skin of the patient, of the surgeon, of the assistants, the ligatures, towels, sponges, and finally the wound itself, were all submitted to bacteriological tests, and proved to be sterile. In the year 1898, sixteen hundred and twenty- nine operations were performed in the wards and operation theatres of St. Bartholomew's Hospital (see Hospital Reports). This does not include the ophthalmic opei'ations, or a vast number of operations done in the surgery and out-patient departments. No operation was followed by pyccmia, septicaemia, erysipelas. We owe these results to the work and teaching of Lord Lister, and to the conscientious care with which the house-surgeons, sisters, and nurses perform their duty. The systematic use of culture media for testing has proved a most valuable safeguard, and has done much to raise the standard of efficiency. No modern scientific surgeon now omits this precaution. Antiseptic Surgery and Antiseptics Definition ...... 298 Actions of Antiseptics .... 299 Chemical and other Agents . . . 299 Choice of Antiseptic .... 300 Hee Dressings ; Joints ; Labour, Manage- ment ; Urine {Bacteria in); etc. Antiseptic Surgery and Antiseptics.—Anti, against; septos, putrid. The term antiseptic is now used with more than one meaning. Originally it was revived to designate the wound treatment which aimed at the pre- vention of putrefaction by the use of chemicals. Ultimately, the prevention of all forms of sepsis and of suppuration was included within its scope. During the last few years, surgery, which aimed at the exclusion of bacteria by heat and sterilised fluids, and without the use of chemicals, has been by some named " aseptic," and that which relied upon chemicals for the exclusion of bacteria called "antiseptic." In- consistencies continually arose. Chemicals had to be used for the disinfection of the hands and skin, and of septic wounds ; heat had to be used for instruments and silk. A difficulty also arose in designating the mixed method, which utilises both heat and chemicals. But surgery is progressive, and, as it becomes more scientific, can be defined with greater precision. Thus, the term aseptic is applied to surgery which aims at the absolute exclusion of all bacteria. Obviously, if all are excluded, sepsis cannot occur. To attain this end the surgeon has to