205 ANKLE-JOINT, REGION OF—INJURIES AND DISEASEkS the diseased structures be removed good results will follow, but incomplete operations are certain to bring failure. In the case of the os calcis it is often sufficient to gouge out the diseased part, but there sliould be no hesitation in removing the whole bone if it be extensively diseased. The results of the latter operation have been excellent; in some cases the patients have walked perfectly after the pai'ts have become sound. Disease of the astragalus can seldom be treated satisfactorily by mere scraping, and hence removal of the whole bone is usually necessary. If the disease has spread to the neighbouring joints, the tuberculous s^aiovial membrane must also be taken away. Excision of the cuboid bone has given good results in cases where the tuber- culous process has commenced in, and remained limited to, that bone. When the disease has been very extensive, almost the whole of the tarsus has been excised, but usually under such circumstances it is necessary to amputate either by Syme's method or through the lower part of the leg. Sarcoma.—The tarsus is occasionally the seat of sarcoma, which may be of either the sub- periosteal or central variety. In the early stage the diagnosis from tuberculous disease may be very difficult, but the rapid growth will soon enable a definite opinion to be formed. In doubtful cases it may be well to make an ex- ploratory incision. Sarcomata arising in this situation rapidly become generalised, and would appear to possess a higher degree of malignancy than sarcomata arising in the thigh or leg. The only treatment is amputation at a sufficient distance above the seat of the growth. Diseases of the Texdon-Sheaths around THE Ankle Tenosynovitis.—The tendon-sheaths in the neighbourhood of the ankle are very liable to inflammation, especially the sheaths of the peronei tendons. Acute tenosynovitis frequently arises from excessive use of the foot or from sprains. It usually subsides readily with rest and the application of glycerinum belladonnfe. Sabacute and chronic tenosynovitis may result from gonorrhaia, rheumatism, or syphilis (second stage). The same treatment, with appi'opriate constitutional remedies, should be adopted. Suppurative tenosynovitis is due to the entrance of septic matter into the tendon-sheaths. A free outlet for the pus must be provided, and antiseptic fomentations applied regularly. Tuberculous Tenosynovitis in this situation usually results in great thickening of the sheaths, with little effusion. The peronei, the extensors of the toes, and the posterior tibial sheaths are the usual situations. The disease may be primary or secondary to tuberculous disease of the ankle-joint or tarsus. In the early stage the disease must be conducted on the same lines as for ankle-joint disease. Should this fail, as mucii as possible of the diseased tendon-sheaths should be excised. Diseases of the BursyE.—For the situation and diseases of the burs;e in the I'egion of the ankle-joint, see " Bursa', Diseases of.'' III. OPERATIONS Erasion of the Ankle-Joint.—Arthrectomy. —The diseased structures are removed by freely opening the joint on its lateral aspects, or by an anterior incision, which severs all the soft structures in front of the articulation. The latter method has the advantage that it brings into view every nook and corner of the joint, and renders removal of diseased tissues much more certain. Its drawback lies in the severance of the tendons, which, however, will unite if they are carefully sutured and sepsis is avoided. After the diseased tissues are removed with knife and scissors, the joint cavity is flushed out with a warm antiseptic lotion, the edges of the incision are brought into apposition without any opening for drainage, and the foot fixed at right angles in plaster of Paris. If the astragalus is diseased it must be removed, the results after such a procedure being often very satisfactory. Excision op the Ankle-Joint.—This is not often performed, and should not be entertained for disease of the ankle unless it is limited to the tibio-tarsal articulation, and only after treat- ment by rest has been carefully tried. The ankle is also sometimes excised in cases of injury, such as compound dislocation and com- plicated fracture. The after-treatment is always troublesome and difficult, and the result in many instances unsatisfactory. Access to the joint can best be gained by a free, curved, external incision, extending down Ijetween the extensor tendons and the fibula to the outer surface of the astragalus. The periosteum is detached from the fibula and the ligaments separated as they are exposed. Almost an inch of the fibula is now removed, either with a saw or a chisel. The lower end of the tibia is next cleared, and to facilitate this part of the operation an incision is made along the inner surface of the tibia, and in the long axis of the bone the malleolar end of the tibia is removed. Also, as much of the astragalus as is deemed necessary, or frequently the entire bone, is taken away. In the after-treatment care must be taken to fix the foot and leg in a good position. Some form of plaster-of-Paris dressing with Paul's splinting will be found to answer best. The result most to be desired is firm ankylosis. Excision of the Astragalus.—Astragalec- tomy is sometimes performed for tuberculous diseases ; more frequently it is resorted to in cases of injur}', such as dislocation, and in inveterate club-foot (Lund's operation). The bone is removed by making a free incision on the antero-external aspect of the ankle-joint,