280 ARTERIES, LIGATURE OF artery, and descends along] the posterior aspect of the fibula. Operation.—A 3^-inch incision is made over the posterior surface of the fibula, and the skin, fascise, and as far as may be necessary the fibular fibres of the soleus muscle are divided, and the muscle drawn invi^ards. The flexor longus hallucis is then seen, and the artery which lies under cover of this muscle is found by cutting vertically through the innermost muscular fibres close to the postero-internal border of the fibula. The artery lies with its vense comites in a tube of tendinous structure. Ligature of the Anterior Tibial Artery.— This is the smaller of the two tibial arteries. Leaving the popliteal trunk at the lower border of the popliteus muscle, it passes through the orifice in the interosseous membrane to reach the front of the leg. In the upper two-thirds of its course it lies deeply between the tibialis anticus on the inner side, and the extensor longus digitorum and extensor longus hallucis externally. In the lower third of its course, w^here the muscles have given place to tendons, the artery is more superficial, lies upon the lower part of the tibia, and is crossed from without inwards by the tendon of the extensor longus hallucis. The vessel has two venje comites. The anterior tibial nerve lies at first on the outer side of the artery, then for the greater part of its course the nerve is placed in front of the artery, whilst at the ankle it has again got to the outer side of the vessel. The course of the vessel may be with suffi- cient accuracy indicated by a line drawn from a point midway between the outer tuberosity of the tibia and the head of the fibula to the mid- point of the anterior aspect of the ankle-joint. The anterior tibial artery may require liga- ture for injury, and in such a case the surgeon would enlarge the wound and ligature each end of the divided vessel. It is customary, however, to describe ligature of the vessel in the upper, middle, and lower thirds of the leg, though these formal operations are scarcely ever called for. Ligature in the upper third of leg.—A 3-inch incision in the line of the artery divides skin, superficial and deep fasciae. The intermuscular space between the tibialis anticus on the inner side, and the extensor longus digitorum exter- nally is now opened up by separating these two muscles, when the artery, accompanied by its veins, is found lying on the interosseous mem- brane with the anterior tibial nerve on its outer side. The aneurysm needle is to be passed from without inwards. Ligature in the middle third of the leg.—A 3-inch incision is made in the line of the artery. The skin, superficial and deep fascife are divided, and the interspace between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum opened up by separating the two muscles. The extensor longus hallucis is now found lying between the above-mentioned muscles, and is drawn out- wards when the artery with its companion veins is discovered lying upon the interosseous membrane, after the anterior tibial nerve, which here lies in front of the artery, has been dis- placed outwards. The needle is to be passed from without inwards. Ligature in the lower third of the leg.—A. 2-inch incision is made in the line of the artery, reaching to within inch of the ankle-joint, dividing skin, superficial and deep fascise, and part of the annular ligament. By extension of the ankle-joint and flexion of the great toe, the tendon of the extensor longus hallucis is made prominent, and this forms the best guide to the artery, which generally lies under cover of the tendon. If the incision is made higher up, the vessel may lie internal to the tendon, i.e. between it and the tibialis anticus tendon. If very low down the artery may be external to the tendon, i.e. between it and the extensor longus digitorum. The nerve lies to the outer side, and the aneurysm needle should be passed from without inwards. In this operation care should be taken to avoid opening the sheaths of the tendons, otherwise adhesions of the tendons to neighbouring tissues may result. Ligature of the Dorsalis Pedis Artery.— This vessel continues the course of the anterior tibial artery. It reaches from the centre of the front of the ankle-joint to the hinder end of the interosseous space between the first and second metatarsal bones, where it passes into the sole of the foot. In its course over the dorsum of the foot it lies parallel with, and just external to, the tendon of the extensor longus hallucis. Ox>eration.—An incision is made in the line of the artery just external to the tendon of the extensor longus hallucis, and the vessel is found deeper than would be imagined lying between the above-mentioned tendon and the innermost tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum. The nerve lies on its outer side, and venee comites accompany the artery. The aneurysm needle is passed from without inwards. Before leaving the subject of ligature of the arteries below the knee, it must again be enforced that these operations can scarcely ever be required in practice, as the treatment of haemorrhage is not a formal ligature, as de- scribed above, but opening up the wound and securing the injured vessel with ligatures placed above and below the bleeding point. Arterioles. See Physiology {Circula- tion). Arteriometer'. See Arteries, Diseases OF ( Variations in Tone); Pulse {Arterial Blood Pressure). Arteriosclerosis. See Aneurysm {Eti- ology) ; Arteries, Diseases of ; Heart, Myo-