ANEURYSM 173 case of the subclavian or axillary an operation to find the collaterals would probably be niore difficult and less satisfactory tlian that for excision. In other cases where there is more room, if the first ligature is not at fault, tie again close to the sac — e.(j. after ligature in Scarpa's space, tie below the anastomotica magna—or excise the sac. But if the femoral is pulsating, wliere tied, repeat the ligature, if only to make sure that the artery has not been injured. Another form of failure to cure is rare. The contents may remain fluid without pulsation, and the sac may even enlarge and burst after proximal ligature. Regurgitant blood-supply has been suggested as the explanation. Ex- cision of the sac is the proper treatment. Gangrene.—The obstruction to tlie circula- tion caused by an aneurysm may alone cause gangrene. When we add to this an obstruction higher up on the same main trunk, and when we consider that cardiac weakness and disease, and widespread arterio-sclerosis, are not ini- oommou in subjects of aneurysm, we can feel no surprise at the occasional occurrence of gangrene. Accidents at the operation, such as serious loss of blood, injury of the vein, infection and cellulitis, greatly increase the danger of gangrene; while treatment of a ruptured aneurysm by Hunterian ligature renders it still more likely. Gangrene is usually obvious between the third and seventh days, but may be earlier if impending before operation, or later when due to spreading thrombosis or to embolism. Both moist and dry gangrene occur in con- nection with ligature. Moist gangrene is usually the more extensive, and is infinitely the more serious; but dry gangrene sometimes involves a whole leg, and is, upon the whole, the more frequent variety. It may cause a mere scab. Treatment.—In dry gangrene await a line of demarcation. In moist gangrene amputate above the aneurysm. When gangrene is threatening, proximal ligature at a distance should not be practised; excision of the sac or ligatui'e immediately above the sac can alone be considered. The former seems to be the better operation. It, or incision, should be considered whenever gangrene threatens after a Hunterian operation. Late Results.—After successful proximal liga- ture aneurysms steadily shrink, their pressure symptoms disappear, and in the course of a few weeks or months the patients return to work without inconvenience. Not very uncommonly recovery remains incomplete and the patient more or less unfit for work; there is more or less ojdema; the part is weak, cold, wasted, liable to ulcers; it is the seat of numbness, of more or less severe pain, and even of trophic lesions, these latter symptoms occur- ring especially in connection with aneurysms pressing on the brachial plexus. Treatment. — Amputation has occasionally been done for the relief of these — usually upon some mistaken diagnosis. Excision of the shrunken sac has given relief, and should always be tried. PiioxiMAL Ligature close to the sac, no branch intervening, places the obstruction to the circulation as low as possible, and reduces it almost to that of the aneurysm alone; gangrene will therefore be less likely to ensue. The collateral circulation will be employed only in conveying blood past the aneurysm, not into that portion of the artery between ligature and sac which usually remains pervious. This is the highway to the sac, and, with it open, failure to cure is more likely than when only regurgitation or small muscular and articular currents are possible. Accordingly, recurrent pulsation would probably be less common in proportion as the ligature approaches the sac. Possibly mechanical irritation in the immediate neighbourhood of the sac would tend to excite clotiting. Objections are : (1) Greater difficulty : under ordinary circumstances the difficulty cer- tainly is not great. If the aneiu'ysm encroaches on the upper part, say, of the popliteal artery, the end of the femoral is the proper spot for the ligature. (2) The vessel is likely to be diseased so close to the sac: this is not the case. Conclusion :—The success of proximal ligature is likely to increase in proportion to its proximity to the sac. Distal Ligature.—This is far less efficacious than proximal ligature, and Brasdor's opera- tion, with no branch intervening, is the most successful form. Unfortunately, except in aneurysm of the root of the carotid, it is difficult to find a place where it is theoretically possible. Brasdor's operation acts as an embolus would. The blood is brought to a standstill in the sac, collateral vessels dilate, and pressure is taken oft'. Some suppose that coagulation starts at the ligature and spreads back into the sac. Wardrop's operation has found its most frequent application in cases of anem-ysm at the root of the neck. Accidents.—Enlargement of the sac has some- times occurred ; also suppuration of the sac. Compression. — (1) Directly ujjon the sac; often ca^ised sloughing and disastrous results. It is now used chiefly as a means of support by a bandage, simple or elastic, or by a moulded and padded cap. (2) Proxi7nat compression, digital or instru- mental. Ol'Ject : diminution of flow through an aneurysm, so that clotting may take place while the artery remains pervious at the point compressed. Digital compression.— For this relays of assistants are required. The patient