BRAIN, TUMOURS OF 490 swelling, numerous hsemorrhages, surrounding retinal changes, and functional disturbance of vision is suggestive of a tumour of the cere- bellum or one of the optic tracts, especially in the neighbourhood of the optic chiasma. The second of these positions is made certain if hemianopsia or unilateral blindness is present. It is not a little singular that tumours in this same situation may cause blindness and optic atrophy without any neuritis. Optic neuritis which is unilateral, which begins on one side, or which is considerably more intense on one side than on the other, is also of some localising value, as the tumour is usually in the cerebral hemisphere on the same side, and while there are cases in which the tumour is in the opposite hemisphere, this is less likely to be the case when it is in the anterior part of the brain, so that with evidence that the tumour is situated anteriorly, the probabilities are that it is on the same side as the excess of neuritis. The intensity of - the optic neuritis is no certain criterion of the size of the tumour, for though the larger the tumour the greater the pressure and the optic neuritis, inexplicable exceptions occur in which very large tumours produce no optic neuritis, and very small ones are accom- panied by marked neuritis. The neuritis may develop rapidly in a chronic tumour, but as a rule such a rate of progress is indicative of rapid growth of tumour, progressive hydrocephalus, or meningitic complication. Vertigo is much less common than any of the symptoms already considered. Various abnor- mal sensations are, however, described as giddi- ness by patients which do not strictly deserve to be classed as vertigo. Neoplasms occasion this symptom through interference with the auditory 7ierve in some cases, while in others they do so through the agency of ocular palsies, induced by interference with the nerves supply- ing the ocular muscles, or the nuclei from which these nerves originate. In the absence of evidence of either of these mechanisms severe vertigo is strongly suggestive of a tumour of the cerebellum, its middle peduncle, the corpora quadrigemina, pons, or medulla. Convulsions.—Two forms of convulsions may be the outcome of a tumour of the brain, general convulsions in no way distinguishable from those which characterise idiopathic epilepsy, and the localised convulsions known as Jacksonian epi- lepsy. The former variety is common to intra- cranial tumours in general, irrespective of their precise seat, and therefore has no localising value. Such convulsions may exist for years, and the case be regarded as one of idiopathic epilepsy until the detection of optic neuritis reveals the real nature of the case. General convulsions appear to depend on increase of intracranial pressure, or on cerebral irritation engendered by the presence of the tumour; but in some instances they are to be accounted for by hismorrhage into or around a tumour. However induced, a general epileptic seizure, or a series of these, may lead to a fatal termina- tion. A further resemblance to idiopathic epi- lepsy may be seen in attacks of sudden loss of consciousness without convulsions, which simu- late petit mal. In a Jaclcsonian jit we have a symptom of considerable localising value, for as a rule such convulsions are indicative of a tumour in or contiguous to some part of the sensori-motor cortex of the Rolandic area of the brain. Moreover, such convulsions, though they may ultimately become general, and thus indis- tinguishable from the variety already described, have a local beginning, and may remain localised to some part throughout the attack. On the other hand, when the convulsions spread from the part in which they commence, they do so in definite order, and, as a rule, with more or less deliberation. They are due to irritation of the centres in the cortex which preside over the movements of the parts that are in a state of spasm. This may further mean that the tumour is situated in or near that part of the cortex, a significance that they have as a rule, though by no means invariably. The exceptions are sup- plied by certain cases such as those in which the convulsions commence in the thumb and fingers, although the tumour is situated in some part of the cortex removed from the hand area. The explanation of this discrepancy appears to be that the cortical centres concerned with such highly specialised functions as those subserved by the thumb and fingers are more readily distTirbed than those related to less specialised functions. Thus it is that although fits which begin in the thumb and fingers may indicate a tumour in the part of the cortex concerned with the movements of those parts, those which com- mence in the lower extremity, or in one of the proximal segments of the upper limb have a greater and more absolute localising value. Moreover, when the damage to the cortex is sufficient to cause paralysis, it is the surrounding less damaged part that is prone to discharge, so that in such cases the paralysis is a surer guide to the seat of tumour than the initial convulsion. Apart from such persisting paralysis, temporary paresis or paralysis often follows a Jacksonian fit, and is most marked in the parts first or most convulsed. A further important feature of this variety of fit is that consciousness is not usually lost until the convulsions become bilateral. Tonic Spasm or Ccmtracture. — Apart from the rigidity which results in the limbs in cases in which these are paralysed, tonic spasm is most commonly met with in suhtentorial tumours, and in some of these cases the spasm in the neck muscles is sufficient to cause some retraction of the head. The muscles lower down the spine may share in the spasm, and paroxysms of general tetanic rigidity may occur.