AN.ESTHETICS Pharmacology ; Temperature ; Toxicology (Organic Poisons). Discovery. — Chloroform was introduced in practice in the year 1847 l)y Sir (at that time I'rofessor) James Yoimti; Simpson, Professor of Midwifery in the University of Edinburgh. The first persons who actually discovered its antes- thetic properties were Drs. Kcitli and Matthews Duncan, who were in that year, as Simpson's assistants and under his directions, testing on themselves the anaesthetic qualities of various (U'ugs. And ever since that time, althougli never a decade has passed in which its reputa- tion has not been many times assailed, it has remained the favourite aiuesthetic agent of the general practitioner and of most medical men throughout the greater part of the world. Objections to Culorqfokm.—A great deal can be justly said against chloroform. For instance, while out of 6020 persons an- sesthetised l)y sulphuric ether, or 4483 hy bromethyl, only one person will die, one out of every 2286 persons chloroformed will succumb, that is—it is three times as dangerous as ether, and twice as fatal as bromethyl. If we endeavour to kill an animal by an anaesthetic, it is easily efi'ected by chloroform, and quickly—it can be done, for example, in 75 seconds ; while with ether a similar animal cannot be killed under four and a half minutes ; and the relative danger of the two drugs may be estimated from this. To kill the animal with chloroform, it will be found that a small quantity, say 50 cubic centimetres of tlxe vapour only, will be needed ; while if ether be used, 500 cubic centimetres, or ten times the quantity, must be employed. If we next try to resuscitate the animals after all signs of life have disap- peared, it is easily and quickly done in the etherised animal; three minutes of artificial respiration, during which 200 cubic centimetres of air have entered its lungs, will suffice to re- animate it; while in the chloroformed animal twelve minutes of artificial respiration, and a cnusimiption of 600 cubic centimetres of air, will Ih" called for to j^roduce the same result. Heart- failure.—When men or animals are subjected to the influence of chloroform, the blood- pressure is observed steadily and pro- gressively to diminish, that is, the heart's action liecomes progressively weaker as the administra- tion goes on. Ether produces no such failure of the heart. Syncope.—And in chloroform administration, sudden diminution, or even abolition of the blood-pressure, is often observed to occur unex- pectedly at any time, particularly (a) at the commencement of the administration, if an additional dose of the antcsthetic be dropped on ; or {b) while the drug is being evenly given, and the patient or animal is well under its in- tiuence; or, lastly, (c) after the administration —CHLOROFORM 143 lias Ijeen discontinued and its influence is passing or has passed off'. But at no moment can we be sure of the heart during the use of chloro- ff)rm. Ether, on the other hand, does not show these sudden heart-failures. Chloroform a Poison.—Tested in any way, chloroform shows a poisonous action. Thus the moi-e concentrated the mixture of chloroform and air which is employed in experiments on a series of animals, the more frequent are the fatal results during a definite duration of the anaes- thesia, and these fatal results occur in exact proportion to the concentration of the mixture. When the vapour employed preserves the same concentration throughout, in a series of experiments on animals, wliere the duration of the antesthesia is the subject of study, a certain number will die under, say, half an hour of its influence, but more than double the number will die of those ana'sthetised for one hour, and so on; the deaths become relatively more numerous in proportion to the length of the duration of the anfesthesia. Even when given too diluted to cause anaes- thesia, chloroform still acts as a poison, and will kill. Animals placed in an atmosphere of chloroform, so largely diluted as not to render tiiem insensible, are so affected by it that some of them will die, and relatively/ more of them die in proportion as the time during which they are exposed to it increases. A certain number of them will waste and die even during the first week or two after they have been removed from the dilute atmosphere of chloroform. Chloroform causes fatty or granular degenera- tion of the ganglionic cells of the heart, of the nuiscular heart fibres, of the nuiscle cells through- out the bod}% and of tlie cells of the kidneys, liver, alidominal glands, tunica intima of the aorta, adipose tissue, etc., and these changes may pro- duce a fatal result days after the administration. Such changes explain the frequency, after chloroform anaesthesia, of sickness, jaundice, albuminuria, cylindruria, wasting, debility, and death. Every experienced chloroformist or operating surgeon meets with such cases among his patients, particularly in already weakened kidneys, in hepatism, and in instances when the anaesthesia has been prolonged. Tiie use of ether is less frequently followed by cellular and visceral changes. All tins constitutes a very strong indictment against chloroform as an anaesthetic, and tlie truth and force of it must not be denied, although care and proper management can greatly lessen all of the dangers that have just been pointed out. Advantages of Chloroform.—Chloroform is indispensable desjDite its drawbacks. Notwith- standing all that has V)een truly advanced against its use, it has always been, and to all appearance will always remain, tlie drug for producing anaesthesia which the general prac-