BRAIN, SURGERY OF 509 smart, or asepsis doubtful, the latter plan had better be adopted. Htemorrhage from the vessels in the pia mater after removal of brain tumours is occa- sionally severe. If pressure, plugging with gauze, hot lotion, and the like, be not effectual, attempts may be made to ligature the vessel with fine catgut. In the case of bleeding from the brain substance itself pressure with a phig usually succeeds, though in rare cases styptic applications or a touch with the cautery may be necessary. In the case of wound of a large sinus, pressure forceps are sometimes left on the vessel for some days when other means have failed. The lirain should bo handled as little and as gently as possible, so as to avoid shock. Horsley advocates the principle of doing these operations in tivo stages, the dura being exposed at the first sitting, and the tumour removed at the second, so as far as possible to minimise shock. There should be no hard and fast rule on this point; the surgeon should judge whether or not it is well to delay removal of the growth till a second operation, by taking into consideration the amount of blood lost in the preliminary stage, the general condition of the patient, and so forth. After operations on the brain, drainage, as a rule, is not called for. If, as stated above, there be a large cavity, a drain may be left in for a few days, and in cases of abscess it is always necessary, otherwise it is safer to close the wound entirely. The surface of the brain being thoroughly douched with warm boric or sterilised saline solution, the dura should be stitched in position with very fine Chinese silk, and the superficial flap adjusted and kept in position by horse-hair, silver wire, or other sutures. Injuries to the Brain The comparative immunity from injury en- joyed by the brain and spinal cord is due in part to their effective bony and membranous coverings, but also in great measure to the elastic cushion or water-bed provided for their protection by the cerebro-spinal fluid. This fluid has another very important func- tion, namely, the regidation of the amount of intracranial pressure on the brain. It is known that the cerebro-spinal fluid per- meates the whole substance of the brain and spinal cord, entering by the lymphatic sheaths which surround the cerebral vessels, and find- ing its way along these vessels to certain lymphatic spaces surrounding the nerve cells ; there is also a free communication through the foramina of Majendie and those in the roof of the fourth ventricle, between the fluid in the subarachnoid space and that in the ventricles. Further, it has been discovered that the cerebro-spinal fluid is capable of leaving the cranial cavity and passing into the spinal canal, the theca vertebralis Ijcing capable of consider- able distension for its accommodation; and, again, a certain amount may escape from the cerebro-spinal cavity by passing along certain lymph tracks, which, for the most part, are in connection with the cerebro-spinal nerve sheaths as they leave the brain or spinal cord. Some twenty-one cases have also been recorded by St. Clair Thompson in which there was a spon- taneous escape of cerebro-spinal fluid from the nose. The writer has had one such case under observation, and in this, as in most of the recorded cases, the exudation of cerebro-spinal fluid seemed to have a marked relation to an existing increase of intracranial pressure. A consideration of the intimate relation of the cerebro-spinal fluid to all parts of the brain and cord, and of the power it possesses of shifting its position accoixling to circumstances, suggests very forcibly its value as a regulator of intracranial pressvu-e. It is evident that it is a factor to be borne carefully in mind in the consideration of injiu-y or disease of the brain. Injuries of the brain have a special interest of their own, in so far that, while of course they may be of all grades of severity, from slight concussion to such as are immediately fatal, their effects on this sensitive organ are fre- quently so far reaching, and so much out of proportion to their aj^parent severity, that they all demand the most careful investigation and treatment. Injuries may be inflicted over a limited area of the bi'ain, and the lesion may be such as to interfere exclusively with the fimctions of a distinct and definite centre. In these cases a consideration of the symptoms in the light of our knowledge of localisation of function in the brain may lead us to a diagnosis of the exact position of the lesion. Generally speaking, a comparatively slight and local irritation of a motor centre will cause spasm of the muscles represented at that centre, while a more complete destruction of the centre will lead to paralysis of the muscles concerned. It is necessary to remember, however, that even if a motor centre be entirely removed by injury or operation, other parts of the brain may sub- sequently take up the work of the damaged centre to a very considerable extent. As the result of injury hfcmorrhages may take place upon the surface or into the substance of the brain, and these in their t^irn may cause compression of the brain or lead to the forma- tion of cysts. One of the most frequent general conditions following injury to the brain is that of con- cussion, while contusion or laceration of its substance are followed by a definite train of symptoms. Inflammation of the brain and its membranes, followed it may be by softening, sclerosis, or