362 BANDAGES: VARIETIES AND METHOD OF APPLICATION reversed upwards to prevent the lower edge im- peding the sight of the sound eye, and is carried obliquely downwards and forwards across the pad, below the ear on the injured side and below the occiput, until it joins the circular poi-tion just at the point where the bandage was begun. A safety-pin is inserted at this point to keep it secure, and the bandage is then reversed and carried across the head to be pinned or tied to the circular portion of the bandage just behind the ear on the injured side. The stump of a Limh (Fig. 6) is bandaged by encircling it a few times with a i-oUer bandage, each turn of the bandage being nearer the end than the one before it. The roller is then brought forwards from the back of the stump over its face to the front, and it is then looped to and fro over the end of the stump mitil the whole surface is covered, the entire series of loops above and below being held in position until they can be secured by carrying the bandage circularly round the stump in such a manner as to bandage over the loops and so prevent them from slipping. This bandage not only keeps the dressings in place, but it supports the flaps and counteracts the tendency shown by the muscles to drag themselves away from the cut end of the bone. Gauze Bandages are rollers made of strips of fine luibleached tarlatan, either sterilised or im- pregnated with some of the various antiseptics used in modern surgery. Carbolic gauze bandages are made by sterilising the muslin by heat after it has been washed and dried. It is then passed through a melted mixtiu'e consisting of iowx parts of paraffin, four parts of resin, and one part of pure carbolic acid; the excess of the mixture is squeezed out, and when the gauze is dry it should contain 5 per cent of carbolic acid in its meshes. The resin is employed to prevent the acid being washed out too quickly when it is brought into contact with a discharging wound, whilst the paraffin is used to diminish the stickiness of the resin. Iodoform gauze bandages should contain not less than 20 per cent of iodoform. They ai'e made by rubbing the powder into dehydrated and sterilised gauze. A little glycerine is often added to fix the iodo- form, and to render the gauze more supple. The blue sal-alembroth (a double chloride of mercury and ammonium) gauze bandages contain 1 percent of the salt, but they are so irritating to the skin that I have given up using them even for adults. Gauze bandages have the advantage of being very light and comfortable to wear: they have the disadvantage of tearing easily and of stick- ing very tightly to the skin. The Chief " Made " Bandages ai-e the many- tailed bandages, often known as the bandages of Scultetus (1595-1645). The four-tailed bandage used in the treatment of fractured jaw was for a long time the only form of this type of bandage used in England, though the many-tailed bandage in its different varieties has always been a favourite with the French surgeons, but of late years it has been more widely used in this country. Scultetus' bandage is made by cutting a roller bandage into a sufficient number of pieces to cover the part, each piece being long enough to go round the body or limb and overlap two or three inches. The strips are then arranged parallel to each other, so that each overlaps the one above it, and the whole series is slipped under the wounded part. The ends of each strip are then brought round separately, and are made to fold over each other, a sufficient nimiber of safety-pins being inserted to keep them all secure. It is the especial merit of this form of bandage that a soiled portion can be removed easily and with- out disturbing the whole bandage, a merit which is counteracted by the modified form in which all the pieces are held together by stitcliiug the centre of each strip to a piece of l)andage running vertically. The many-tailed bandage is particularly serviceable when it is desired to move the patient as little as possible after a severe operation, as after an abdominal section, herniotomy, or amputation of the breast. A T-Bandage is used to keep dressings on the perinreum or on the head. It consists of two strips of roller bandage, one piece being long enough to pass once or twice round the waist or head, the other a longitudinal piece sewed at right angles to the transverse jiiece and at its centre. The longitudinal piece is half the length of the transverse piece, and when two longitudinal strips are used a doul)le T-bandage is formed. Many useful varieties of a made bandage can be invented by sewing a strap and buckle to pieces of gauze or lint shaped to cover the injured part. Fixed Bandages.—Calico and roller bandages may be prevented from shifting by rubbing a solution of starch paste over them after they have been applied in the manner desired. The starch paste is made by boiling starch in water until it is quite thin, and it is then applied whilst it is hot by rubV)ing it over the bandage or by painting it on with a brush. The l:)andage sometimes shrinks if the paste has been too freely applied, and it should therefore be watched to see that it does not become unduly tight. Bandages can also be stiffened by impregnating them with a mixture of gum and chalk (now obsolete), by soaking them in melted paraffin, and by painting them over with a saturated solution of silicate of soda. Plaster of Paris, however, has practically replaced these dift'ei'ent methods, though it is so difficult to remove that I sometimes prefer silicate bandages, as they soften easily when they are soaked in water. Plaster of Paris bandages are prepared by ruljbing freshly-baked gypsum into crinoline or some other variety of loose-webbed bandage. The bandage is then loosely rolled, and is placed in a basin of water until bubbles cease to come