BRAIN: CEREBELLUM, AFFECTIONS OF 528 the latter variety may be associated with weak- ness of one arm; so, too, the arm on one side may alone present evidence of loss of power, or when it is affected in conjunction with the leg on the same side, the loss of power in the upper extremity may be considerably in excess of that of the lower limb. When a hemiplegia or brachial monoplegia exists, it is sometimes on the side of the lesion of the cerebellum, while in other cases it is on the opposite side, though the latters seems less likely to be the case when the arm alone is weak. The explanation usually offered for hemiplegia of the opposite side is that it is due to pressure on the pyramidal tract above the decussation of the pyramids, while in explanation of the weakness that is sometimes met with in the limbs on the same side as the cerebellar lesion several explanations have been suggested. Those who deny that motor paresis can result from a defect of the cerebellum alone have supposed that such remote and improbable possibilities as counter-pressure of the opposite crus cerebri against the edge of the tentorium and petrous portion of the temporal bone, or direct pressure on the pyramidal tract below the decussation, are responsible for the defect, neither of which explanations can account for the weakness of the limbs on the same side as a necrotic softening of the organ consequent on vascular occlusion, cases of which kind are on record. My own experience, which is based on the results of experiments, leads me to believe that in such cases the weakness is directly due to the defect of the cei'ebellum. The paresis is so quickly compensated after experimental lesions of the organ, that it is not surprising that this symptom is not more commonly observed as a result of cerebellar tumours, for they may produce their effects sufficiently slowly as to allow of complete suppression, owing to substitution and com- pensation, even of symptoms that are usually pronounced. Dr. Hughlings Jackson has long contended that true motor weakness results from destructive lesions of the middle lobe of the cerebellum in man, and that the trunk muscles are first and most affected. We have published jointly a case in point, in which weak- ness of the spinal muscles was observed in a patient in whom there was cystic destruction of the middle lobe and adjacent parts of the lateral lobes of the cerebellum. As a rule, however, no weakness of the spinal muscles can be deter- mined in cases of cerebellar tiunour. Convulsions.—When convulsions occur in a case of cerebellar tumour they are usually general, and are probably to be attributed to some indirect influence on the cerebral hemi- spheres. Unilateral convrilsions have, however, been noted by Drummond in a case of abscess, in which the face and limbs were convulsed on the side of the cerebellar lesion. Peculiar attacks of tetanic-like spasms in cases of cerebellar tumour, causing retraction of the head, flexion of the forearms, extension of the lower extremities, and pointing of the toes, have been recorded by different observers, including Dr. Hughlings Jackson, who regards these attacks as of cerebellar origin. Others have, however, been of opinion that these seizures are due to pressure on the subjacent pons and medulla, the more so as the tumour has been in the middle lobe of the cerebellum in the cases described. Tendon Jerks.—The knee-jerks afford us prac- tically no information which can be regarded as of localising value in tumours of the cerebellum. They may be normal, exaggerated, or absent in different cases, or great variability of the knee- jei'ks may be observed in the same case; they may be increased, then diminished, it may be almost to extinction, and subsequently become comparatively brisk again. It was at one time supposed that absence of the knee-jerks in tumours of the cerebellum was of diagnostic significance, but it is now recognised that the sign has no such value, for the knee-jerks behave in a similar way in certain cases of tumour of the cerebnmi. Moreover, it is worthy of note that an observer of Oppenheim's experience has never met with absent knee-jerks in an uncom- plicated case of cerebellar disease. Inequality of the knee-jerks might have been expected to supply some information as to the side of the tumour, for with inequality after experimental lesions the increased knee-jerk is on the side of the ablation of the cerebellar tissue ; but while the same has been found in some cases of unilateral cerebellar disease, in others a dimin- ished or almost absent knee-jerk has been met with on the side of the lesion. Anaesthesia.—It is quite exceptional to meet with any defect of cutaneous sensibility as a symptom of cerebellar tumour in man, and when present it has usually been of a slight character, limited to the upper extremity, and affecting the hand chiefly. Most of the cases in which anses- thesia has been met with accord with my experi- mental results, in that the defect of sensibility has been detected on the side of the lesion, but it has also been observed on the opposite side, and the total number of cases in which the defect has been noted at all are too few to allow of any importance being attached to the information to be derived from them, more especially in view of the possibilities of indirect effects from pressure. Muscular sense is said to have been disturbed in a few cases, but this again must be an exceedingly rare phenomenon in cerebellar disease. Affection of Cranial Nerves.—The evidence afforded by affection of certain of the cranial nerves is of great value, more especially in deciding on which side of the cei-ebellum a tumour is situated, for in the majority of cases in which there is evidence of unilateral in- volvement of any of these nerves, the tumour it