436 BONE, DISEASES OF The treatment of the Joint Lesions is described in the article on diseases of joints. Amputation of the limb, which was at one time the routine procedure in suppurative osteo- myelitis, is reserved for grave cases in which life is endangered from general infection ; where several joints are involved ; where there is sepa- ration and displacement at the epiphysial junc- tion ; where the whole shaft is dying or dead and there are no appearances of a new case, and when the soft parts are extensively involved. That is, apart from the risk to life, when the limb is likely to be useless. In flat bones, such as the skull or ilium, one must trephine early, because there may be suppuration on both aspects of the bone. In the OS calcis, patella, etc., interference must also be early, in order to save the adjacent joints. In the vertebrfe, interference is difficult or impossible, and in any case can only be directed to the evaciiation and drainage of any abscess which may have formed. Treatment of the Necrosis. — Sequestrot- omy. Sequestrectomy. The patient may not come under observation until the acute attack has been recovered from, and he applies for treatment of the sequelae of the disease. So long as dead bone remains in situ, so long will there be suppuration from the granulations lining the cavity in which it lies, with discharge of pus externally through the sinuses. The existence of dead bone may be evident to the eye, when it is actually exposed, or it may be inferred by passing a probe down the sinus and striking the bare hard bone. From external examination it is not always easy to determine the size, character, or number of the sequestra, nor to be certain of their mobility. As regards the best time for surgical interference, the general rule is to wait for spontaneous separation and mobilisation of the sequestrum. In premature operations for necrosis, diseased portions may be left behind; too much bone may be removed, and the sub- sequent repair may be interfered with. The presence of the sequestrum stimulates and re- juvenates the osteogenetic cells of the marrow and periosteum; the latter, as the result of prolonged irritation, is transformed into a thick tube of cartilaginous consistence already engaged in ossification. While waiting, the drainage may be improved and the septic element combated. Other things being equal, one would wait longer in the case of a limb segment possessed of a single bone, e.g. femur, than in a limb segment possessed of two parallel bones. In exceptional cases, where the sequestrum is very slow in separating, e.g. outer table of skull, or where the septic risk is a prominent one, or the suppuration so abundant as to affect the health, one may interfere before complete separation and mobilisa- tion, taking care, however, to chisel well beyond the diseased into the surrounding vascular bone. The operation for the removal of the dead bone (sequestrectomy) consists in opening up the periosteum and the new case to a degree sufficient to allow of the removal of all the dead bone, including the most minute sequestra, as well as any areas of infected granulation tissue and pus. Listerian methods are to be rigidly adhered to. A tourniquet may be employed with advantage. Existing sinuses may be enlarged, but if these are inconveniently situated, e.g. in the centre of the popliteal space in necrosis of the femoral trigone, it is better to make a fresh wound down to the bone on that aspect, which affords the best access, and which entails the least injury of the overlying soft parts. The periosteum, which is thick and easily separable, is raised from the new case by suitable elevators, and the new case is freely removed with the chisel or gouge, short of entailing the risk of fracture. In exposing and removing the con- tained sequestrum, care is taken not to break off any fragment from its worm-eaten edges and extremities, for if any such fragment is allowed to remain, it will interfere with healing, either at the time or at a subsequent period. In the case of multiple sequestra, several openings will have to be made for their removal. Where sequestra are embedded in an epiphysis, the latter must be freely opened up, or the entire articular end of the bone resected. The dead bone having been removed, steps must be taken to disinfect the cavity in which it lay; to effect this it may be necessary to scrape away the lining granulations with the sharp spoon, and to swab the resulting raw surface with some powerful antiseptic. The cavity may then be stuffed with gauze or worsted, to which iodoform may or may not be added, the stuffing being renewed from time to time until healing is com- pleted. On account of the time and trouble con- nected with this method of treating bone cavities, other procedures may be preferred. The cavity may be allowed to fill up with blood clot; pro- vided there is perfect asepsis, it may be possible to obtain healing under a single dressing; or skin-bone flaps may be raised from the bone in the vicinity of the cavity and made to cover in the latter, or the cavity may be filled with bone grafts, fragments of living bone obtained in resection of club foot, or fragments of calcined bone, or, lastly, the walls of the rigid cavity may be mobilised, by means of the chisel. 2. Serous or Albuminous Osteomyelitis and Periostitis.—This is apparently the same dis- ease as the preceding, in a mild or benign form; the virulence of the infecting agent (usually the Staphylococcus aureus) being attenuated, the inflammatory exudation is serous or albuminous, and death of the bone is exceptional. There is considerable resemblance to the serous exudation caused by the tubercle bacillus. Like ordinary osteomyelitis, it affects growing subjects between fifteen and twenty years. The periosteal ele-