452 BONE, DISEASES OF ing from the surface of the bone from which the tumour has originated. Where the formation of new bone is a prominent feature, the tumour may be described as an ossifying sarcoma. Chondro-sarcoma has been referred to luider chondroma. Sooner or later the tumour tissue tends to erupt through the fibrous layer of the periosteum, and infects the overlying soft parts, infiltrating or displacing these, until finally it reaches the skin; when the latter gives way, the tumour tissue protrudes as a fimgating bleeding mass. Clinical Features of Sarcoma of Bone.—They are met with more often before the age of thirty, and are comparatively common in children. Males are more liable than females in the pro- portion of two to one, partly beca^ise of their being more exposed to injury. Their most common seat is in the long bones of the limbs, and especially at the juxta-epiphysial junctions in the region of the knee-joint in young subjects. The upper end of the humerus and upper end of the fibula come next in order of frequency. Apart from the bones of the limbs, they are met with in the jaws, in the skull, in the ribs, scapula, pelvis, etc. The objective symptoms consist in the appear- ance of a tumour connected with a bone, which increases progressively in size. It may be on one aspect or may surround the bone ; at the end of a long bone it acquires the shape of a leg of mutton. Its surface may be uniform or bossed; its consistence varies with its situation, whether central or periosteal, with its structure, and with the changes which it has undergone. The co-existence of solid and of fluctuating areas is characteristic. On firm pressure, fine crepita- tion may be felt from crushing of the delicate framework of new bone, or there may be parch- ment-like or egg-shell crackling from yielding of the thin unresisting shell of bone under the pressure of the fingers. There may be arterial pul- sation, and a bruit may be heard. The patient often complains of pain which is aggravated by exertion, and which is worse at night. The pain is said to be more severe in central tumours before they erupt on the surface of the bone. The soft parts over the tumour may for a long time preserve their normal characters; they may become oedematous, and the dilated subcutaneous venous network becomes very evi- dent through the thinned, transparent skin. The adjacent joint usually remains intact, but its movements may be impaired from the mere bulk of the tumour, or from effusion, or from portions of the tumour tissue pushing them- selves into the cavity of the joint. Inflamma- tory changes may occasionally occur, leading to stiffness and adhesions, and it may be vicious attitudes of the limb, e.g. flexion at the knee. The local elevation of temperature over the tumour, which may amount to 2° or more, is a point of diagnostic importance. When the overlying soft parts are invaded, they become matted to each other and adherent to the skin ; the latter is thinned, distended, and finally sloughs. The tumour tissue then protrudes, fungates, ulcerates, breaks down, bleeds, and decomposes. The amount of bleed- ing may be serious. These changes are some- times hastened by careless puncture of the swelling for purposes of exploration. Spon- taneous fracture may be an early manifestation of the disease, especially if it involve the shaft of the femvir or humerus; it follows slight violence, and it is imattended with much ecchy- mosis or swelling ; it never really consolidates, although there may be an attempt at union by the formation of a cartilaginous callus. The deformity and other signs resemble those of traumatic fracture. Suppuration may occasionally take place in the soft parts over the tumour, although the skin remains unbroken. This may be incapable of explanation unless an exploratory puncture has been made without precautions. The lym- phatic glands in the vicinity may be enlarged without being actually infected with sarcoma, for they have been observed to recover after removal of the primary growth. Actual infec- tion of the glands may occur in spite of the sarcomatous nature of the lesion. As the tumour progresses the patient emaciates and fails in health and appetite. There is evening pyrexia, apart from ordinary septic complications. The patient is worn out with suffering, want of sleep, discharge, loss of blood, etc., and finally suc- cumbs, with or without evidences of secondary growths in distant parts. These are especially met with in the lung or pleura, but may occur in other organs or in other bones, or may l^e generalised throughout the body. The Diagnosis of Sarcoma of Bone is often difficult in the early stage in which it may be of real value. The following are the conditions with which it is liable to be confused:— 1. Chronic Stapltylococcus Osteomyelitis at the end of a long hone: in sarcoma the swelling is more irregular, it is better defined above and Vjelow, because the adjacent bone is healthy, whereas in the inflammatory lesion there is hyperostosis gradually tapering off along the shaft; in tumour also, the adjacent joint is less often implicated, and there is greater liability to spontaneous fracture. 2. Disease of the adjacent joint, especially while swelling of the knee, may closely simulate sarcoma, and the two conditions have been mis- taken for each other. It is difficult to state rules which may be of use in practice, Init atten- tion is to be directed to the history of the patient and of his disease, to the shape and exact seat of the swelling, to the absence of suppuration, and to the fact that the joint disease will yield to rest and other methods of treatment which will not influence the progress of a sarcoma.