ALCOHOL 87 less eft'ort, but as cardiac depression supervenes, the power for work falls to a lower level than before. Apart from the influence of their blood- supply the nervous and the muscular cells are obviously impaired by alcohol as generators of energy—and for feats of endurance alcohol has to be laid aside. The influence of alcohol upon the hicfher nervous centres will l)e considered under the heading of "Alcoholism." The Renal and the Cutaneous Functions.— Mvich of the diuretic action sometimes attri- buted to alcohol is due to the water with which it is diluted, or to added diuretic principles. Before it reaches the kidney the blood has been freed of a large pi'oportion of the alcohol it had absorl:)ed ; and, moreover, any direct stimulation of the secreting epithelium would be counter- acted by a lessened general arterial pressure. Diaphoresis is not a prominent result, in spite of the cutaneous hyperemia, except when alcohol is taken with hot water. The ifenerntive function is depressed after a temporary stimulation. Inebriation is credited with a marked influence upon tlie products of conception, individuals conceived during acute alcoholism being often degenerate, and Fere has succeeded in producing monsters by the influ- ence of alcoholic vapour on eggs (Dubois). Toxic Effects op Alcohol and their Clinical Manifestations The Varieties of Alcoholism.—L The acute toxic conditions immediately due to alcohol are of two kinds—(1) common alcoholic intoxica- tion, and (2) acute alcoholic poisoning. The symptoms in both cases are almost exclusively nervous. IL In chronic alcoholism, by the side of the functional symptoms which are the remote effect of alcohol, there is always some structural change or degeneracy. IIL I71 delii'ium tr-emens the nervous symptoms are acute and yet not due to alcohol itself, of which not a drop may be in circulation. It is essentially an acute failure of nerve power supervening upon prolonged alcoholic mahuitrition. Individual susceptihility varies, and idiosyn- crasies occur which are often more marked for special kinds of intoxicating beverage than for alcoiiol itself. Resistance is increased by habit, but at last it is lowered ; and the be- ginning of delirium tremens is often an inability to imbilie the accustomed stimulating dose. This intolerance of the debilitated drunkard is often inherited by his progeny, in whom it may be associated with other idiosyncrasies. An opinion prevails that tlie tendency of this age is towards a greater susceptibility to the toxic effects of alcohol. An imnmnity from the usual alcoholic in- toxication is witnessed in pi-ofound disturbances of the nervous system, such as intense pain, shock, strong emotions, and high fever; its mechanism is ill understood. Pure ethylic alcohol intoxication is seldom witnessed; it is usually modified by the ethers of wine, by the higher alcohols of spirits, and by the special ingredients in other alcoholic drinks. The toxic i^ropcrties of the higher alcohols are said by Raluiteau to increase with their mole- cular weight and boiling-point, and Richet draws attention to the influence of tiieir solubility and volatility upon the kind and duration of the resulting intoxications. Natural wine being free from them, though it will produce inebriety, does not, unless taken in very large quantities, lead to chronic alcoholism : it is mainly against the consumption of spirits that legislation and fiscal checks need to be directed (Richet). The convulsive element which sometimes com- plicates intoxication by spirits is the most obvious instance of a mixed intoxication. The oil of wormwood contained in absinthe (0"33 per cent) acts as a convulsive poison upon the cortex, the motor centres, and the medulla; and the chronic degeneracies due to it are also obviously distinct from simple alcoholic poison- ing {vide " Absinthism "). Ether intoxication also differs from that produced by alcohol. The basis of most compounds used surreptitiorisly as intoxicants, such as Eau de Cologne, various medicinal tinctures and tooth washes, is essentially alcoholic. The deleterious eftects, l)oth acute and chronic, of the malt liquors are also instances of a mixed intoxication varying with their constituents; and the pathological results diff"er from those due to spirit - drinking. In different degrees their haliitual use promotes a deposition of fat. Acute Alcoholic Intoxication and its Stages. — This is described in the article " Alcoholism." The nervous lesions which are characteristic are described in the article "Alcoholism," and only the visceral lesions that may be present will here be referred to. The Morbid Changes in Chronic Alcoholism Chronic Alcoholism.—The pathological ap- pearances in cases of chronic alcoholism vary with the individual, but we trace in all of them the influence of irritation and of mal- nutrition. Changes of Malnutrition.—The degeneracy which overtakes all tissues, from the integu- ments which become peculiarly thin and soft to the skeleton with its undue lightness and fragility of bones, may be disguised at first by an increased storage of fat, but it tends towards atrophy, particularly in spirit-drinkers. Fatty decay is the leading alteration in muscle, l)lood- vessels and glandular cells alike, whilst fatty deposition and replacement-fibrosis go hand in hand with parenchymatous atrophy. The liability to tuberculosis at periods of life which are otherwise almost immune demonstrates the