442 BONE, DISEASES OF otherwise healthy. The organisms are those infecting the wound. The lesion is exclusively or mainly an osteomyelitis, which commences and is always most intense at the site first infected, i.e. in the marrow exposed in the wound. It may spread for some distance along the medullary canal. The marrow presents changes of ordinary septic or suppurative inflammation. There is rarely an accumulation or collection of pus within the bone. There may be fungating granulation tissue protruding from the exposed marrow. If necrosis takes place, it is usually limited. In amputation osteomyelitis the sequestr^im may be annular, affecting the cross section of the bone at the saw line, or may be tubular, extending up the shaft, tapering off above, the upper end of the tube being represented only by the thin shell of bone next the medullary canal. The periosteum chiefly participates in forming new bone, in being more easily detached, and in being thicker than normal. In the macerated specimen the new bone may present a character- istic coral-like appearance, and may be per- forated by cloacae. The relations of the disease to pyiemia are well known as resulting from the septic phlebitis in the marrow. In compound fractures the disease may lead to death of the fragments and the formation of seqiiestra, which are included or walled in by new bone, hence persistent sinuses may result, with thickening of the adjacent periosteal sur- face. {See Compound Fracture.) The clinical features of osteomyelitis associ- ated with wounds are those of ordinary septic infection, rigors, etc., with sweating and depres- sion. In addition to suppuration in the original wound there may be secondary abscesses along the shaft of the bone, and these may communi- cate with the central sequestrum through cloacal apertures in the new case. Tuberculous Diseases of Bone These are the result of infection of the marrow and periosteum by tubercle bacilli which have been conveyed to these tissues through the arteries. In contrast to the more typical pyogenic diseases they are characterised by their painless and insidious onset, and by their slow progress and chronicity. They are further characterised by their frequent localisation in the less active red marrow of the short and flat bones, and in the epiphyses of the long bones rather than in their ossifying junctions. Their localisation in the epiphyses explains the frequency with which the infection spreads to the adjacent joint, and the reason why tuberculosis is of much greater importance as a disease of joints than a disease of bones. In contrast to the pyogenic and syphilitic infections, tuberculosis is compara- tively rare in the shafts of the long bones with the exception of the phalanges, metacarpals, and metatarsals of children. Although the site of entrance and method of infection by tubercle bacilli are rarely apparent on clinical observation, pathological experience tends to show that tuberculous disease of bone is exceedingly rare as a primary affection, if in- deed it occurs at all, and that the bacilli are nearly always derived from some pre - existing focus in the body, namely, the lung, the bron- chial, mesenteric, retro - peritoneal, cervical glands, or in the genito-urinary organs. The importance of this fact lies in the necessity of our regarding a patient with tuberculous disease of a bone, however localised, as the bearer also of an internal source or store of tubercle which may then, or at any f\iture time, lead to an out- break in some other part of the skeleton or else- where in the body ; and it is also to be borne in mind that the original source or store of tubercle in the lung, gland, or elsewhere may itself develop fresh activity and menace the life of the patient. In this connection it is interest- ing to note that recent work by Stockman would appear to indicate that the bone disease formerly considered to be due to phosphorus is really of tuberculous origin. As was assumed in pyogenic diseases of bone, so also in tubercle we must believe in the capacity of the bacilli of lying dormant in the marrow for indefinite periods. We must also recognise the influence in the production and localisation of tuberculous disease in bone of such additional factors as special tissue predis- position and the influence of injury. The injury which is related to tuberculous disease is usually insignificant in character ; it is to be taken into account not only in the determination and localisation of the disease to start with, but as a factor in its aggravation, and as a factor also in the breaking out afresh or relapse of old and apparently cvired lesions, it may be after the lapse of many years. The influence of age is well recognised as a predisposing factor in tuberculous disease, at the same time the apparent overwhelming frequency during the early years of life is to be largely accounted for by the correspondingly larger number of indi- viduals alive during these earlier years. The fact must be emphasised that tuberculous disease may be met with at any period of life, because the statement is so often heard from the unin- itiated that a given lesion cannot be tuberculous because the patient is advanced in years. Age also influences the localisation in certain parts of the skeleton; without going into details, it may be said that the hip, spine, and phalanges attain their maximum in the earlier years of life, while disease in the knee, elbow, shoulder, and wrist is comparatively frequent in adults. The influence of sex appears to be largely one of liability to injury. Before the