ASTHMA 312 cases the sputum may be muco - purulent. Plugs or casts, more or less twisted, may be seen with the naked eye in the sputum, and on microscopic examination, besides cylindrical epi- thelial cells, certain spiral bodies and crystals, to which V. Leyden first drew attention. The former, sometimes known as Curschmann's spirals, are most abundant in the pellet-like bodies. They vary in shape, but usually con- sist of a central thread round which is a mesh- work of very delicate fibres, looped round in spirals, or occasionally retiform. They seem to be formed from a substance resembling mucin, and are believed to be due to twisting upon their axis of mucous threads. Berkart looks upon the outer spirals as developed from the central thread, but some observers think the latter is chemically distinct from the mucous spirals which surround it, and that it is of the nature of fibrin. The crystals, which are said by Schreiner to be composed of the phosphate of a new organic base, the nature of which is not determined, are by some thought to be derived from the spirals. A. Fraenkel upholds the view that they are produced from the eosino- phile cells. Asthmatic sputum contains a large number of leucocytes containing eosinophile granules, and it must be pointed out that none of these constituents are absolutely character- istic. The spirals were thought by Cursch- mann to indicate a special form of disease of the finer bronchial tubes (bronchiolitis), but they have been found in pneumonia and in pul- monary oedema, and similar bodies have been noticed in vascular keratitis. Crystals identical with those found in asthmatic expectoration are to be seen in post - mortem blood and some organic fluids, and eosinophile cells occur in the expectoration of acute and chronic bronchitis. The dyspnoeic paroxysms may last only half an hour to an hour, or more than twenty-four hours. After the urgency of the paroxysm has passed off there may be restoration to the normal condition, but occasionally a feeling of oppression remains for some time, a few rhonchi may be heard over the chest, and there is evidence of the imperfect entrance of air into some part of the lung. Attacks of asthma are at times slow in their advent, and slight both in duration and severity. They may be indi- cated merely by a short access of tightness of the chest and wheezing. Between these and such a typical paroxysm as has been described, there may be any degree of severity. In the intervals between the attacks, asthmatic patients may be free from all discomforts or signs of physical disease, but this is only so when the attacks are of comparatively recent origin, or occur at long intervals. After the ailment has existed for some time, it commonly happens that shortness of breath and physical signs give evidence of chest troubles in the inter-paroxysmal periods; bronchitic attacks are liable to be induced by slight causes, or rhonchi may be constantly present. The symptoms and physical signs of emphysema are very commonly noted, and there may be dilata- tion of the right side of the heart. The con- firmed suff'erer from asthma often acquires, in consequence of his ailment, a characteristic aspect and physique. Where there are oft- repeated attacks, the patient has commonly an anxious look, the eyes are watery, the super- ficial veins are often conspicuous, the hands are cold and often blue, and especially when there is much dyspnoea between the attacks the face is slightly dusky. The confirmed asthmatic patient usually loses flesh. He has high shoulders and often stoops. If asthma occurs in early life, the lower part of the chest may be drawn in, a foi-m of pigeon-chest being produced. Cause and Frequency of Attack.—Asthma is a periodic disease, the paroxysms recurring at intervals without cause. Nevertheless, certain conditions influence the advent of the attacks, and the character and time of food is perhaps the most notable of these. Indigestible articles of diet or a hearty meal taken late in the day will often produce in asthmatics paroxysmal attacks during the night, and not infrequently patients have to debar themselves of solid food after mid-day. Accumulations in the rectum may likewise cause paroxysms to occur. The inhalation of irritating substances has, too, a potent influence. Hay asthma is, of course, a well-known example of this, but in a few instances ipecacuanha has been found as powerful in its effect as the pollen of the Anthoxanthum odoratum. Two or three grains of ipecacuanha blown into a large room have been known to produce an attack in its occu- pant. The smell of cats, dogs, and other animals, produces asthmatic attacks in some. Atmospheric and climatic conditions are well known to influence sufferers from asthma. As a rule, the presence of fog, smoke, dust, and irritating gases, tends to induce asthmatic attacks; nevertheless this is not always the case, and some live more comfortably in a moderately impure than a pure air. It is well known that every asthmatic is affected in his own special way by climatic conditions. A place which invariably brings on attacks in one sufferer from asthma may be found to suit another admirably. Exposure to cold winds is a common cause of attacks. Laughing, sneez- ing, or coughing may induce a paroxysm. Emotion has sometimes a marked effect on the attacks; a fright or a sudden pain may bring- on a paroxysm, or more rarely cause one to cease. I have seen a typical asthmatic attack brought on by a subcutaneous injection of ergotine. Certain mental states seem to have some effect on the occurrence of paroxysm. Some patients going to a place where they have habitually had attacks of asthma are almost