AMBLYOPIA 120 may be, from one's own experience, though that may have been equally extensive or more so. Certain points, however, may be looked upon as fairly characteristic of the defective vision, which may be considered hysterical. In the first place the patient is usually, though not invariably, one who has from time to time shown other nervous or hysterical symptoms. Often, too, there are at the same time symptoms of asthenopia and blepharospasm or even con- vergent spasm. Localised hypersesthesia or hemiansesthesia may also be present. As to vision, it is found on examination to be more or less impaired, often less so in semi-darkness than in ordinary daylight. The examination with the perimeter shows a concentric limitation of the field of vision. This limitation shows two peculiarities. It is less marked the farther the point of fixation is removed from the eye, and it varies according as the object with which the test is made is moved from the periphery towards the centre, or from the centre towards the periphery. Many explanations have been off'ered for these peculiarities, but there is little doubt that they depend merely upon the rapid tiring of attention. Indeed much the same may be found in the case of the normal in- dividual. There is also often in hysterical cases a curious perversion of the peripheral colour- sense. Blue and yellow objects are recognised as such over a smaller extent of the field than red and green. This is the reverse of what holds good in the normal state, as well as in all real diseases of the eye. From what has already been said we may take it that although it is convenient to apply the generic term of " hysterical" to this form of amblyopia, it is by no means always, strictly speaking, hysterical. It is met with almost exclusively in young individuals from the time of puberty to the age of twenty-five or thirty. The other forms which remain to be described are truly hysterical. Unilateral Hysterical Amaurosis.—There is nothing which, under normal conditions, can be compared to this affection. The peculiarity lies in this, that when the eye which the patient admits to be the seeing one is occluded no visual impression is received through the other, although with both eyes open it can readily be shown, by various easily applied tests, that both eyes not only see but often see equally perfectly. If, for instance, a prism of 8° or 10° be held in front of the good eye when both eyes are open, the patient is at once conscious of seeing double. Of the double images, too, the one correspond- ing to the supposed blind eye is usually the sharper. This is because that eye alone fixes centrally. It is not therefore a mere suppression of the one eye's images while attention is directed to the retinal images of the other. This one is familiar with, for instance, in using a micro- scope or telescope. The affected eye is only of use in hysterical blindness when both eyes are open to receive impressions. Bilateral hysterical amaurosis is much rarer than unilateral. It may last for months ; some- times after passing off it may recur. In most cases the pupils are widely dilated and may not even react, or only slightly so, to light. There is apparently in such cases an entire absence of conscious vision. Yet there is usually so much vision that the individual affected is able to do many things that could only be possible by the possession of sight. Treatment of Hysterical Blindness.—As re- gards the treatment of hysterical blindness it should follow the lines of treatment of hysteria generally. Suggestion of some kind must be tried, and the patients should have their interest aroused in their own case. A useful form which such treatment may take consists in the injec- tion of distilled water under the skin of the forehead. Amblyopia due to Inflammation of, or Pressure on, the Optic Nerve in the orbit is a form which, though at first, it may be, un- accompanied by any ophthalmoscopic signs, always shows such signs in the course of a longer or shorter period after the onset of the symptoms. Cases of this kind will be con- sidered under neuritis and orbital diseases. Amblyopia, again, which is due to cerebral changes always takes the form of hemianopia. This symptom characterises an important group of cases, a description of which will be found in another article. Congenital Amblyopia.—According to the classification here adopted, there remain only to be considered cases of congenital amblyopia. The most frequent cases of this group are the cases of amblyopia in squinting eyes. Partly owing to irregular optical defects, often not very readily diagnosed, and partly to defective de- velopment generally, one eye may be amblyopic, while the other is normal in acuity or nearly so. This is most common along with hypermetropia. This combination of hypermetropia and ambly- opia of one eye readily conduces to the establish- ment of convergent strabismus. The habit, soon acquired, of mentally suppressing the image of the squinting eye causes the existing defect in it to be for the time being aggravated to a greater or less extent. But this increase in the defect is at once, or very shortly, recovered from as soon as the squinting eye, from any cause, such as temporary occlusion of, or accident to, the other eye, takes up the role of fixation. On this account one frequently finds the amblyopia of the squinting eye spoken of as amblyopia from disuse or amblyopia ex anopsia. This name originated from the idea that the defect was wholly, and not only partially, an effect of disuse. This conception has led to countless fruitless attempts to im-