BLADDER, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF 390 ably hold depends upon its capacity and the degree of inflammation present, often not ex- ceeding three to six oz. This process should be repeated once or twice a day, the temperature of the fluid being about 100° F., care being taken that the catheter and apparatus used are perfectly aseptic. The solutions employed in this way are various, e.g. boric acid (gr. 5-10 to 1 oz.); perchloride of mercury (1-10,000); nitrate of silver (1-2000); sanitas (1-20); per- manganate of potash (1-2000); boro-glycerine (1-20); quinife sulph. (gr. 2 to 1 oz.); carbolic acid (1-100). As injections of mercury or silver nitrate often cause pain, it is always advisable to commence with a weak solution, and to gradually increase the strength according as it is borne by the patient. When there is a tendency to phosphatic deposits on the wall of the bladder, dilute lotions of nitric, phos- phatic, or acetic acid often act beneficially. In cases where ulceration is present, the intro- duction of a small quantity of iodoform emulsion (gr. 10 to 1 oz.) is often attended by good results. Instillation.—When irrigation causes severe pain or excites violent contractions of the bladder, instillation should be employed as a substitute, and it will often be well borne and attended by good results. This consists in injecting slowly drop by drop—and allowing to remain in the bladder after it has been emptied of its contents—a small quantity {e.g. 20-40 drops) of some antiseptic fluid, of greater strength than is used for irrigation, e.g. silver nitrate (1-5 in 100) or perchloride of mercury (1 in 1000 or 1500). When the pain is great, it may be prevented or lessened by the previous injection of a small quantity of a 5 per cent solution of antipyrin or cocain, which act as iiseful local anaesthetics to the bladder wall. Bladder - drainxige. — In obstinate cases of chronic cystitis, when the symptoms do not yield to the ordinary methods of treatment, and the patient's strength is becoming worn out by the pain and frequent calls to pass water by night as well as by day, operative interference will be required. The indication under these circumstances is to place the bladder temporarily in a state of complete rest, and this is effected by draining it either through a perineal or suprapubic opening; at the same time it can be washed out more effectually through one or other of these routes, and also with much less pain to the patient, than per urethram. Another advantage of opening the bladder is that its interior can be thoroughly explored with the finger, and occasionally a cause for the cystitis, e.g. an encysted calculus, a patch of ulceration, or a small growth in the early stage,—the exist- ence of which was previously not suspected, or not detected by cystoscopic or other methods of examination—can be recognised and treated. If the suprapi;bic operation is selected, it affords the additional advantage of enabling the interior of the bladder to be directly inspected, for if a Fenwick's " caisson " speculum is intro- duced through the wound, and its lower end gently pressed against the mucous membrane, almost the whole of its surface can be brought into view, by moving the speculum from place to place and throwing a bright light down it, after all fliiid has been sucked out or removed with a sponge. If no cause is found, a tube is left in the wound for a few days and then removed. Meanwhile, the urine continually drains away through the opening through which the bladder is regularly washed out, and in the course of three or four weeks the wound gener- ally closes. As the result of the complete physiological rest afforded during this period, it will usually be found that by the time the wound has healed, the inflammation will have subsided and the bladder will be restored to a healthy condition. If, as often happens in cases of long standing, one or more patches of super- ficial ulceration are found, these should be either cauterised or curetted; if phosphatic deposits are present, they should be scraped away, and in both cases a similar course of drainage should afterwards be adopted. In certain very severe cases of chronic cystitis of long duration, the bladder may have become so contracted from thickening of its muscular coat, which is rigid and unyielding, and its mucous lining may be so altered in character that it is impossible, even by prolonged drainage, to restore it to a healthy condition. Under these circumstances it may be necessary to estab- lish a permanent siqirapubic or perineal opening, a silver or vulcanite tube being worn in the wound, and either plugged or connected with a urinal attached to the patient's leg, so that the urine may continually drain away. In the case of females, bladder-drainage is rarely required. It may be carried out through a suprapubic opening, or by an incision into the bladder through the vesico-vaginal septum, the former method being preferable. Simple dilata- tion of the urethra gives good results in cases of pain and irritability of the bladder due to spasmodic contraction of its neck, but the sphincter muscle soon recovers itself, so that the drainage afforded by this treatment is only partial and, as a rule, very temporary. Tuberculous Disease of the Bladder This may be primary, but is more commonly met with as a secondary affection, owing to extension of the same condition from some other part of the genito-urinary tract, e.g. the kidneys, prostate, testes, or seminal vesicles; it also occasionally develops in the course of cases of pulmonary tuberculosis. It is more frequent in males than females, occurring more commonly in yoimg adults than in persons advanced in years, and being only occasionally met with in childi-en.