AND LABYRINTH 336 AUDITORY NERVE This should take the form of gentle syringing of the meatus with a 1 in 3000 solution of bin- iodide or bichloride of mercury, or with the "Lister" strong solution, the cleansing of the auricle, the insertion of iodoform gauze in the meatus, and the covering of the ear with an antiseptic dressing. Complete rest and quiet, with cold to the head, are advisable. The re- storation of hearing is scarcely to be considered, but the resulting vertigo in these traumatic cases is extremely amenable to treatment with small doses of the sohition of perchloride of mercury (min. XV. to xxx., thrice daily). New Growths.—The auditory nerve may be the primary seat of new growths, such as fibroma, neuroma, myxoma, psammoma, and sarcoma, but it is also often involved in growths extending from neighbouring parts. N(m-malignant tumours affecting the auditory nerve primarily are almost beyond the range of diagnosis, but may be suspected when a nerve- deafness with vertiginous attacks persists, and slowly increases, especially if it does not involve particularly the highest portion of the range of audition. Gradual extension to other nerves, such as the facial, the vago-accessory, hypo- glossal or sixth, in spite of anti-syphilitic treat- ment, is the practical summary of the indications. Interference with the salivary secretion of the same side results from the involvement of the pars intermedia of Wrisberg, now believed to be the origin of the chorda tympani. Malignmit growths are more rapid in their aggression, and usually show themselves at some time by protruding through the petrous bone into the tympanum or meatus, simulating granu- lations, or into the mastoid region to be mistaken for an inflammatory affection of that part. Thus mastoid operations have been performed in cases of sarcoma. The nature of the disease is some- times identified on microscopical examination of a fragment. Congenital Nerve-Deafness.—In proportion to the frequency of malformation of the external and middle ear, defective development of the internal ear is rare. More often the congenital abnormalities are the result of ante-natal disease, as indicated by the identity of the conditions found with those which result from disease in later life. When both ears are affected, congenital deaf- mutism results. When only one is involved, we have unilateral congenital nerve-deafness. As a rule it is not recognised during injury, and it is not till childhood, or even young adult life, and often only by accident, that it is discovered. Its occurrence is often a source of considerable difficulty to the diagnostician, who is apt not to have this condition before his mind, while even if he has, it is difficult to elicit the fact that the patient " has never heard with that ear." The subject of Deaf-Mutism is considered under " Dumbness." Auerbach'S Plexus. See Intestines, Diseases of {Anatomical and Physiological Con- siderations) ; Physiology {Food and Digestion); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Ana- tomy). AurSl.—A peculiar sensation, which may occur in any part of the body, and which often resembles that produced by the impact of a gentle current of air; it often precedes an epileptic or a hysterical fit; occasionally it is auditory, olfactory, gustatory, or visual. See Brain, Physiology of {Smell) ; Epilepsy ; Hysteria (Hysterical Convulsions). Aura,! Diseases. «S'fe Auditory Nerve AND Labyrinth ; Deaf-Mutism ; Ear, Examina- tion OF; Ear, External, Diseases of ; Ear, Affections of Tympanic Membrane ; Ear, Middle, Acute and Chronic Inflammation ; hiematoma auris ; hearing, artificial alds to ; Otorrhea ; Physiology {The Senses, Hear- ing) ; Vertigo. Aurantii Cortex (see Prescribing).— The Citrus Aurantium appears in the British Pharmacopoeia in three forms, as Aurantii Cortex Recens (Fresh Bitter Orange Peel), Aurantii Cortex Siccatus (Dried), and as Aqua Aurantii Floris (Orange Flower Water). Of the fresh peel there are four preparations : Tinctura Aurantii, dose, |' to 1 fl. dr.; Syrupus Aromaticus (Simple Elixir), dose, | to 1 fl. dr.; Syrupus Aurantii, dose, -^^ to 1 fl. dr. ; and Vinum Aurantii, used in the preparation of Vinum Quininse and Vinum Ferri Citratis. The dried peel, which contains a fixed oil as well as auranti- amarin and two other glucosides, has two pre- parations, the Infusum Aurantii and the Infusum Aurantii Compositum, both given in doses of ^ to 1 fl. oz. Orange flower water has a markedly bitter taste; it may be given in doses of ^ to 1 fl. oz., or in the form of Syrupus Aurantii Floris in doses of ^ to I fl. dr. The preparations of Aurantii Cortex and Aqua Aurantii Floris are much used as flavouring agents in the prepara- tion of other official preparations {e.g. Syrupus Cascarce Aromaticus, Infusum Gentiance Com- positum, and Syrupus Calcis Lactophosphatis), as well as in ordinary prescribing. On account of their bitterness they act also as mild stomachics. The Am-antii Cortex Indicus is official in the Indian Addendum to the British Pharmacopcoia of 1898. Auricle, (l) ^See Ear,External,Diseases OF ; HEMATOMA AuRis. (2) See Heart, Physio- logy OF; Physiology {Circulation). Aurug'O. See Jaundice. Auscultation. .Vee Abdomen, Clinical Investigation of; Aneurysm; Aorta,Aneurysm; Chest, Clinical Investigation of; Gynecology, Diagnosis in ; Heart, Myocardium and Endo-