77 AINHUM There is a model by Baretta in the Army Medical Museum, Washington, labelled Ainhum, representing a case in which, after all the toes of the right foot had undergone spontaneous amputation, a similar process was proceeding at the middle third of the leg. Ainhum may nui its course in a few months ; usually it goes on for from one to over ten years. There are no constitutional symptoms. Morbid Anatomy.—The horny layer of the epidermis of the entire toe is greatly hyper- trophied; about the tip it may measure 1 nmi. in thickness, at the seat of constriction 5 mm. In the depths of the furrow the deeper epithelial cells are swollen, and generally hyaline in appear- ance ; occasionally they are cloudy or granular. The papillic are greatly elongated, their capil- laries being dilated and congested. The sweat- glands are atrophied, the surrounding connective tissue being increased, and the subject of an extensive fatty infiltration. There is consider- able small-cell infiltration in the perivascular spaces, especially in the vicinity of the sweat- glands in the connective tissue, and in the deeper layers of the corium. There is also a notable thickening of the coats of the larger ai'teries, the internal coat being the subject of a proliferation similar to that found in endarteritis obliterans. The capillaries of the corium and sweat-glands are congested. The veins are usually empty : their adventitia and endothelium are swollen. There is a well-marked rarefying osteitis which advances regularly from the periosteum, becom- ing more irregular towards the axis of the bone. Cavities are formed in the bone which eventually become filled with a delicate reticulum of fibrous tissue and capillaries ; this reticulum is filled with oil globules. Manifestly these are all secondary changes. Etiology.—Of this nothing is known. The idea that the condition is produced artificially by the action of toe-rings, or by the tightening of a string, may be dismissed as being incon- sistent with the facts. Not unlikely the process leading to the constriction Ijegins in a crack, the result of injury in walking ; but most probably the established disease is a specific process in- duced by some germ which had oljtained access to the tissues through the primary crack. Saxias of Bahia says that the wearing of boots confers no immunity. Chapping of the feet is very common among the soldiers of European nations; nevertheless ainhum is unknown among them. These are facts which suggest a specific agency confined to the endemic area of ainhum. It has been suggested, on very meagre grounds, that ainhum is a trophic lesion connected with some nervous disorder. Collas regarded it as a manifestation of leprosy ; quite recently, Zam- baco has supported this view. Doubtless ainhum may concur with leprosy, and there is a resem- blance in certain of the lesions of leprosy to ainhum ; nevertheless the bacillus leprte has not been demonstrated in the characteristic lesions of the latter disease. Treatment.—When the affected part becomes troublesome it ought to be amputated. Some have suggested division of the constriction as a palliative measure in the early stages. Air. See Aseptic Treatment {Air Infec- tion) ; Meteorology ; Respiration ; Thera- peutics, Health Resorts ; Ventilation and Warming. Air, Examination of. Introduction . . . . . .77 Ozone ....... 77 Carbonic Acid ...... 78 Ammonia. . . . . . .79 3Ioisture ....... 80 Micro-Organisms . . . . .81 Sewer Air . . . . . .82 Ground Air ...... 82 Introduction.—The condition of the atmosphere is one of the most important factors in the climate of a locality. Long before the composi- tion of atmospheric air was known, or the researches of Lavoisier, of Priestley, and of Black had elucidated the chemistry of respiration, the importance of the atmosphere as a medium through which the health could be affected was present to the minds of physicians. Even the earliest observers attril)uted the origin of many diseases to variations in its condition, as regards temperature, gaseous constituents, suspended matters, etc. But only in comparatively later times, and, speaking broadly, since the begin- ning of this century, has its full importance come slowly to be recognised, and yet more slowly has this recognition affected practically the conditions of human life. The percentage composition of the atmo- sphere, as regards its two chief constituents, varies little, and 20-9 volumes of oxygen to 79-1 volumes of nitrogen represents the result of the most careful observations. The variations in percentage composition can have little if any effect on the health; but the diminution in the absolute amount of oxygen in each inspiration in a rare atmosphere, due either to diminished pressure at high altitudes, or to increased tem- perature, may sometimes demand attention. Ozone.—This allotropic modification of oxygen has been by some considered an important con- stituent of the atmosphere. In popular language it is oxygen in a condensed state ; that is to say, while in oxygen the molecule consists of two atoms, in ozone it consists of three. Its strong oxidising power is due to the readiness with which this extra atom of oxygen breaks off" in presence of an oxidisable substance. Much of its hygienic value is attributed to this action in rendering organic effluvia innocuous. Its irri-