ALKALOIDS 108 thought, memory, ideation, are exalted, then depressed; in turn the lower and more reflex centres are affected. Other alkaloids exhibit in their actions the converse, first altering the conditions of the earliest, then progressively the more recently acquired, nervous organisations. Thus strych- nina first stimulates the motor centres in the .spinal cord, then, if in large enough dose, stimulates the medullary centres, although it never appears to cause any mental disturbance or affect the motor nerves themselves however large the dose. Atropina, on the other hand, first depresses sensory and vaso-motor nerves, stimulates for a short time and then depresses the great medullary centres, later on acting as a stimulant to the cerebrum. Another instance of this law of dissolution may be applied to alkaloidal actions upon the animal economy. Many alkaloids which act in man and the higher animals chiefly upon the brain will be found to affect the spinal cord in a more pronounced manner in the case of animals low down in the scale. In these animals but few faculties or powers have been acquii'ed apart from those essential for the mere act of living, so that the centres which opium affects in man so strongly as to obscure the special action of thebaina on the cord, are not so markedly acted upon in the frog as are the motor ganglia in the spinal cord, the action of morphina here approaching that of thebaina in higher forms. The alkaloids, in fact, appear to be endowed with a species of selective power, acting upon one form of cell or tissue, and not upon another form, even if it be closely allied to the first both in position and function, in terms of a law which is at present inexplicable. Morphina stimulates the secretory nerves governing the sweat-glands, but depresses the secretory impulses transmitted by the same class of nerves to all other secretory glands. Atropina depresses the entire sensory and motor nervous apparatus below the cere- brum, but stimulates the nerve-centres there. When given in minute doses many alkaloids act conversely to their actions when given in ordinary doses; as an instance, the emetic action of ipecacuanha given in large enough quantity, and the anti-emetic action of the same when administei'ed in a proportionately small dose repeated frequently, may be noted. As a class the alkaloids which are used therapeutically are prone to produce a marked tolerance in the persons of those who take any of them regularly. Their actions, therefore, soon become less pronounced, and larger amounts have to be given. In some diseases, again, large doses of alkaloids can be administered with im- punity, as morphina in peritonitis, quinina in malaria, etc. It almost appears that the alka- loids which are used in medicine—the products of protoplasmic activity—inherit much of the waywardness of their parental protoplasm, and are influenced by it both as regards the character and the degree of their actions upon the proto- plasm of cells when introduced into a living animal body. The alkaloids belonging to other classes are chiefly of interest from a bacteriological aspect, or with regard to digestive processes and in- testinal decomposition. A consideration of their properties would lead us too far afield here. In their chemical reactions they correspond closely to ordinary vegetable alkaloids, in their actions on the body they present great contrasts ; some are powerful toxic poisons, others are almost inert. The fate of alkaloidal substances in the body is an interesting but obscure subject. Some are excreted unchanged, as morphina, conina, and atropina; others are altered during their transit, so strychnina partly appears in the urine as strychnic acid, cocaina as ecgonina (partly at least); while the composition of animal alkaloids absorbed from the bowel is altered in healthy persons in the liver, and excreted in a non-poisonous derivative form. Alkaptonuria. — The darkening in colour (brown, black) of the urine on exposure to air; it is due to the presence of alkaptone, and is favoured by the addition of an alkali. See Urine, Pathological Changes in. Alkarsine. —A foetid, oily liquid, poisonous and spontaneously inflammable, consisting of cacodyl and its oxide, and prepared by the action of arsenic trioxide upon potassium acetate ; Cadet's fuming arsenical liquid. Allantiasis.—Poisoning due to the eat- ing of unwholesome sausages ; botulismus. See Food, Effects of eating Impure. Allantoic! o-Ang:io pag^ous Twins.—See Teratology. Allantoin. — A diureide found in the allantoic fluid of the cow, and in the urine of the foetus, and occasionally of the adult; a crystalline, colourless body. See Liver, Physi- ology OF; Uric Acid. AllantoiS. See Fcetus and Ovum, De- velopment OF; Urachus. Allenbury's infant Food. See Infant Feeding. Allochiria.—A deranged state of the sense of touch in which a tactile sensation made on one side of the body is referred by the indi- vidual to the corresponding point on the other side. See Hysteria ; Tabes Dorsalis. AllOCinesia.—A hysterical motor dis- order, in which, when the patient is told to raise one arm he raises the opposite. See Hysteria. Al logrot roph ia.—The condition in which one part of the body is nourished at the expense of another.