BANDAGES: VARIETIES AND METHOD OF APPLICATION 361 lised gauze. Calico or domette bandages are still used to keep splints in place, but their neat and effective application can only be ol)tained after long practice. The older surgeons brought the art of bandaging to a high pitch of perfec- tion ; thus Amln-ose l^ire says, "after putting Fig. 4. on a bandage the surgeon should look to see that, if it be featly applied, it looks pretty, so as to satisfy both the patient and his own assistants, for each in his profession should beautify his work so far as in him lies." This wholesome counsel has lieen much neglected of late, and bandages are often applied in so slovenly a fashion as to l)e almost ineffective. The simplest manner of applying a calico bandage to a limb is to wind it spirally from the extremity towards the trunk ; but such a spiral bandage does not exert a luiiform pressure unless the limb be of the same size throughout, and it soon becomes loose. A spii-al bandage is therefore rarely apjjlied, its place being taken by a " reverse " or a " figure-of-eight " bandage. The bandage by reverses (Fig. 1) is particularly adapted for those parts which increase in size gradually from below Tip wards, like the arm and leg, wliilst the bandage by figure of eight (Fig. 2) is used when the enlargement of the limb is too great or too irregular for the reverses to lie evenly, as over the knee, the ankle-joint, and the elbow. The hip and shoulder are enveloped in a spica bandage, so called from the resemblance of the pattern in the completed bandage to a spatlie or ear of corn. It is applied to the hip (Fig. 3) by carrying the bandage round the upper part of the thigh and then obliquely across the abdo- men, so that it jjasses between the great tro- chanter and the crest of the ilium on the opposite side. It is then carried round the back below the crest of the ilium, over the in- jured groin from the outer towards the inner side, round the thigh, and then over the lower part of the abdomen, taking care that each tiuni rises higher than the one previously applied. This—the ascending groin spica—is one of the most useful bandages, and is employed after hernia operations, and temporarily in place of a truss. In the shoulder the spica is applied by taking a turn of the bandage round the arm close to the axilla. It is then brought round the back, under the opposite armpit, across the front of the chest, over the affected shoulder, tlien sharply round the injured armpit, and so round the bodv again. The highest turn of this bandage is placed as near the root of the neck as possible, and each turn is carried lower than the preceding one, but still overlapping it in part, until the whole shoulder is covered, and the bandage is therefore a descending spica. Similar bandages are applied to the thumb and to the great toe, beginning at the wrist and ankle res]jectively. Thehreast(¥\^. 4) is supported, or dressings are kept in place upon it, hy carry- ing a roller bandage once round the body below the breast, beginning in front and passing round the sound side. This circular turn secures the end of the bandage, and the roller is then carried obliquely overthe lower part of thediseased l:)reast to the opjjosite shoulder, which it crosses, and is then ])rought Ijack beneath the axilla of the injured side to the circular turn. This is re- peated, carrying each turn of the bandage a little higher than the preceding one imtil the breast is completely covered. The Ca'pelline Bandage (Fig. 5) is sometimes useful to keep dressings upon the head, though the triangidar head bandage is usually the more convenient, because it is lighter and more easily applied. A double-headed roller is first made by rolling an ordinary bandage from opposite ends in such a manner that the two rolls meet when one is a third larger tlian the other. The operator then stands behind and on a higher level than the patient, and lays the centre of the double-headed roller as near the brows as possible. He then carries the two ends of the roller in opposite directions round the head until they meet below the occipital protuber- ance. The longer bandage is carried round the head again, whilst the shorter part is bent over the circular turn, which thus keeps it in place, and is carried forward to the brow, to be again caught by the circular turn. These manoeuvres are repeated initil the whole head is covered by the bandage, when the two ends are crossed, taken once or twice round the head just above the ears and in opposite directions, initil they are tied together in the middle of the forehead. Eye Bandages are usually made of tightly rolled strips of mull muslin 6 yards in length by '2h inches in width. When one eye requii'es bandaging a pad of soft linen or absorbent wool is placed over the orbit, and the end of the roller bandage is placed on the side of the head just above and behind the ear of the sound side. The bandage is then carried round the head, so that it lies low upon the forehead in front and below the occipital protidierance behind. When the circuit has been completed the bandage is carried forwards a second time until it reaches the brow on the uninjured side. It is then