209 ANTHRAX pulp obtained from another slieep affected with splenic fever. Pollende.r in 1855 stated that he had seen in 1849 filiform or roddike bodies in the blood of animals affected with anthrax. He did not offer any positive opinion as to the relations of these bodies to the disease. He described very care- fully the characters of the bacillus, and recog- nised its probable vegetable nature. (In Ger- many Pollender is generally credited with the discovery of the bacillus.) Brauell in 1857 recognised that the bacillus was present in the blood of a man who had died of anthrax. He communicated the disease to sheep by inoculating them with that blood, and found that the bacillus was constantly present in the blood of these animals immediately before their death. He, however, looked upon them as indications of early putrefactive change, and thought that although their presence had a definite diagnostic value, the bacilli were not special to anthrax, being neither the cause nor the means of carrying the disease. It was only in 1863 that Davaine, enlightened by the researches of Pasteur on butyric fermenta- tion (published in 1861), announced that the bacillus anthracis was the actual cause of the disease. He supported his views by a large number of careful experiments. He showed that blood obtained shortly after the death of an animal affected with anthrax, and containing the bacillus, was always infectious, and produced the disease when inoculated into a susceptible animal. On the other hand, he observed that blood containing no anthrax bacillus never com- uiimicated the disease. Davaine's views met with considerable opposition from the most eminent authorities of his time. No important advance was made till R. Koch, in 1876, published his researches on the life- history of the bacillus anthracis, and demon- strated that this organism was capable of producing highly resisting spores. He indicated clearly the influence which temperature, oxygen, and moisture had on the development of the bacillus and its spores. He discovered the con- ditions under which this organism can live as a saprophyte outside the body, and thereby explained how the soil in certain localities remained infected from year to year. In 1880, Pasteur, Chamberland, and Pou,r demonstrated that the pastures were generally infected by the dejecta of animals affected with splenic fever, and also by the blood when the body had been opened after death without care being taken to prevent pollution of the soil. In pastures so contaminated, spores might persist for years. Animals grazing in these infected regions contracted the disease by the ingestion of food contaminated with spores. A year later the same authors, after finding that an attack of anthrax confers immunity against a second attack, published their remarkable investigations VOL. I upon the means of attenuating the virulence of the bacillus anthracis and producing artificial immunity by vaccination with attenuated cultures. On account of the property which the anthrax bacillus has to produce spores, the application to anthrax of the recent discoveries of Pasteur, on the attenuation of the virulence of microbes^ was a matter of special difficulty. Although many important additions to our knowledge of the j^roperties of the bacillus anthracis and its mode of action upon the tissues have been made by a number of distinguished observers since 1881, none of them have had the same influence upon medical science as those which have been referred to in this short summary. II. Anthrax in Man General Anthrax. —• Clinical Features. — Penetration of the bacillus into the blood-stream is preceded by some local lesion, but the diffu- sion of the toxines produced by the bacillus, and later the penetration of that organism into the blood, take place in many cases so rapidly that the disease has frequently tlie characters of a general intoxication or infection at the time when the first symptoms are noticed. Accord- ing to the mode of entrance of the bacillus, invasion of the blood is moi'e or less delayed. In cutaneous anthrax (malignant pustule) gener- alisation of the disease is more delayed tlian in cases of internal anthrax. The extensive osdema frequently noticed in parts free from bacilli, but connected with the seat of infection, indicates the action of toxines. The generalisation of the disease is marked by the appearance of the following symptoms :— Moderate fever, seldom exceeding 103° F. (There may be practically no pyrexia.) In com- plicated cases a temperature reaching 105" F. and 107° F. has been observed. During the last hours of life the temperature usually becomes subnormal. Tlie rectal temperature is consider- ably higher than that of the axilla. The weak- ness and weariness of the patient and other evidences of disease are out of proportion with the amount of fever. Ha?morrhages, vomiting, diarrhoea, dyspna?a, cyanosis, weakness of the pulse are of common occurrence. Coldness of the skin, abundant perspiration, collapse, usualW precede death. The mind may remain clear to the end, but pain in the head, delirium, convulsions may occur. Towards the end of life, diagnosis may be facilitated by the discovery of anthrax bacilli in a drop of blood olitained from the finger or the lobe of the ear. In fatal cases life seldom lasts more than four or six days after the onset of symptoms. Recovery is said to have occurred after symptoms of general infection had become manifest — it 14