BONE, DISEASES OF 444 to, and especially where the disease has reached the stage of cold abscess, the liquid contents may be drawn off through a cannula and an emulsion of iodoform injected in its place. On the whole it is more satisfactory to expose the infected tissues by a free incision at the eai'liest possible stage of the disease, and especially before the skin is infected or perforated; the diseased tissues are then thoroughly removed with a spoon or gouge, and the area of the wound thoroughly and mechanically cleansed with gauze ; the bleeding having been arrested, the exposed tissues are swabbed with pure car- bolic acid, and it may be also with iodoform. If the skin be perfectly healthy the wound may then be stitched up and primary and satisfactory union may be anticipated. If, on the other hand, the skin be infected, and especially if there be superadded pyogenic infection from without through a sinus, it is best not to close the wound, but to stuff it with iodoform worsted, which is to be renewed at intervals of several days until sound healing takes place from the bottom. In deeply seated bones, such as the femur, tuberculous disease in the periosteum may not reveal itself at all luitil the formation of a cold abscess in the overlying soft parts, and the true nature and situation of the disease may only be recognised on incising the latter and exploring its interior with the finger. In the vertehrce, in which periosteal tubercle is fairly common, the disease may spread along the surface of several bodies, lifting up the periosteum and anterior common ligament and invading the surface bone. It reveals itself clinically by the formation of abscess when this has attained sufficient size to be capable of recognition, and it may be also by the develop- ment of curvature of the spine, which, however, is never so pronounced nor so angular as when the bodies themselves are the original seat of the disease. In periosteal tubercle of any bone, but espe- cially in the region of the articular ends of the long bones, there is considerable risk of the direct extension of the disease to the adjacent joint. This is very common. The symptoms of tuberculous disease of the joint may be the first indication of the periosteal lesion, hence the necessity of the earliest possible recognition of the latter, and of its radical treatment before infection of the joint has taken place. II. Tuberculous Lesions in the Interior of Bones.—Tuberculous Osteomyelitis.—It is diffi- cult to give a systematic description of these which will be of any clinical value to the prac- titioner, because in the great majority of cases they are only recognised when some joint or periosteal lesion to which they have given origin is explored in the course of an operation, or when the bones in which the lesion is situated have been removed (in an excision or amputa- tion), and laid open iot purposes of examination. It is only in the case of bones which are quite superficial, e.g. phalanges, ulna, clavicle, skull, lower jaw, that tubercular disease in the marrow gives rise to definite physical signs which will allow of its clinical recognition. In other situa- tions, e.g. in the vertebra, the existence of tubercular osteomyelitis can only be inferred from the development of a pronounced curvature of the spine, or of an abscess which from its situation and associations is probably of spinal origin. In relation to the joints, the diagnosis of tubercular disease in the interior of the adjacent ends of bones can only be inferred from the persistence of the joint disease in spite of treatment, from its graver character, and from the earlier formation of a tuberculous abscess. It is quite safe to say that there are many individuals going about with a tuberculous lesion in the bone marrow, the existence of which is entirely imsuspected, for it may remain latent for an indefinite period, and may even undergo cicatrisation and spontaneous cure without ever having given rise to any symptoms whatever. The general statement may also be made that, with few exceptions, tuberculous disease in the interior of a bone does not give rise to any symptoms until by extension it reaches one or other of the surfaces of the bone affected. If it reach the periosteal surface of a superficial bone, it will lend itself to recognition as a periosteal swelling which may afterwards develop into a cold abscess. In a deeply situated bone such as the femur, an abscess in the overlying soft parts may be the first indication of the disease, and until this abscess is opened and explored its origin from a lesion in the interior of the bone may remain unsuspected and unknown. If the lesion in the marrow erupts on the periosteal STirface where the latter is in immediate relation to the reflection of the synovial membrane of the adjacent joint, it may infect the synovial membrane and spread along the latter. Lastly, it may erupt on an articular surface and directly infect the cavity of the joint as a whole (vide "Joints "). A description of the different anatomical forms of tubercular disease in the marrow is beyond the scope of the present article. It may be briefly stated, however, that while certain of them are characterised by the same caseating tendencies which are so familiar in tuberculous disease in other tissues, others are peculiar to the interior of bones, inasmuch as they may be attended witli sclerosis of the bone within the limited area affected, and that such sclerosed bone may perish under the toxic in- fluence of the tubercular virus and lead to the formation of a characteristic sequestrum. Diffuse Forms op Tuberculous Disease IN THE Marrow (Tuberculous Osteomyelitis proper) are rare, unless we include under this head the extensive tuberculous infiltration and