ANAESTHESIA 138 General anaesthetics are in most or all cases also local anaesthetics, and bodies such as cocaine, eucaine, and others employed to produce peri- plieral loss of sensation do as a matter of fact produce certain general and important effects \ipon the central nervous centres. The n:ost obvious distinction, therefore, between general and local anaesthesia is that in the former con- sciousness and mentality are in abeyance, while in the latter only a small portion of the organism becomes insensitive, the processes of thought and action persisting. General An/esthetics.—The commonly em- ployed are gaseous, e.g. nitrous oxide. Others belong to the alcoholic series, and are taken by inhalation. Of the first class, nitrous oxide is the only one in general use, given either by itself or diluted with air or oxygen. The alcoholic include ethylic alcohol, ethylic ether, chloroform, dichloride of ethidene, the so-called " methylene," bromide of ethyl, pental, and a large number of bodies, which, although used experimentally, have never obtained suf- ficient credit to be included in the armament- arium of the working anaesthetist. Among local anaesthetics should be included methyl and ethyl chloride, cocaine, eucaine j3 holocaine, ether spray (hydride of rhigolene). The knowledge of the physiological action of anaesthetics is no mere academic study; its acqui- sition enables the practitioner to avoid failure and calamity, and carries his art beyond the unscien- tific boundaries of empiricism and guess-work. Physiological Action. — It has now been proved that the corpuscles are capable of con- veying such gaseous bodies as nitrous oxide and carbonic dioxide to and from the nervous tissues ; that anaesthetics act directly upon nerve centres, and not, as was formerly held, as mere replacers of the oxygen of the blood. A quasi-anaesthesia is produced when the supply of oxygen to the tissues is discontinued, as, for example, when nitrogen or other indifferent gas is inhaled, and narcotism follows the breathing of carbonic oxide; but such bodies are not practicable anaesthetics, and so will receive no further mention in this article. The action of the alcoholic narcotics is some- what similar in kind although differing widely in degree. The differences appear in part due to the haloid component, e.g. chloride, bromine —which appear in the heavier bodies {e.g. chloroform, bromide of ethyl) and which renders them less soluble in the blood, more poisonous to protoplasm, and more irritant to both volun- tary and involuntary muscular fibre. This effect upon muscular tissue is of essential importance, for it probably tends to cause spasm of the in- voluntary muscular coverings of the arteries, and to superinduce the curious loss of elasticity in the heart muscle (loss of contractility) noted by M'William as well as the degenerative (? fatty) changes observed after death in animals subjected to prolonged chloroformisation. The oxygen which replaces the chlorine in the ether series is not an irritant, is readily soluble in the blood and acts as a paralysant to the muscular tissue, although this effect rapidly passes off when the ether is no longer inhaled. The inhalation of both ether and chloroform cause at first excitation, then paresis and finally paralysis of the bulbar centres. Upon inhala- tion being commenced a sensation of well-being and elation is experienced due to the increased vigour of the circulation, respiration grows hurried, and thought becomes confused. The most unstable nervous centres, e.g. those higher centres which preside over thought, are the first to be affected, then the middle centres, the sensory and motor tracts, and finally, if the narcotism is pushed to its ultimate degree and the most stable or centres essential to life which control respiration and circulation pass under the influence of the anaesthetic, death occurs. There is little doubt that this action upon the nervous system is a vital one, and that the theories of deoxydation, destruction of the nerve elements, etc., are untenable, at all events, in their entirety. The initial excitation which occurs leads to increased force of the heart-beat, with slight increase of blood pressure, the muscles contract vigorously, and while this assists venous circu- lation, it may, by fixing the thorax, interfere with the due performance of respiration, and secondarily with that of circulation. The stage of excitement and of muscular rigidity varies widely in different persons. It is most marked in the healthy and the muscular; in alcoholics, it is more pronounced in men than in women, in women than in children. Little or none may be met with in young children, and in those who have suffered from exhausting disease. The stage is most conspicuous when slowly reached, and may, unless the anaesthetic is pushed, be very prolonged and difficult to con- trol. There is a danger in this stage lest the struggles of the patient injure himself or the bystander, and especially lest the severe strain imposed upon the pulmonary circulation and right heart by the spasmodic contraction of the muscles of respiration, with the coincident fixa- tion of the thorax, should lead to failure of respiration and syncope. When this spasm passes off, as it usually does in a very short time, if the anaesthetic is properly administered, the muscles gradually relax, breathing grows regular, and the pulse becomes softer and some- what more compressible than normal. During the stage of excitement (2nd degree of Snow) the ocular globes move and the pupils dilate, but in the third degree of narcotism (Snow) under chloroform they contract and the eyes are fixed. This fixation of the globes is not as regularly met with under ether, nor can the