BALNEOLOGY 355 of free iodine. The water is used for hot and tepid baths and compresses, and for pulverisa- tion. There are also douches and douche- massage. Cheltenham (Gloucestershire), 150, R. 29'8, MT. 47-1°, a nniriated sulphated water. The stronger muriated waters contain 392 grains of chloride and 154 grains of sulphate of sodium, with very little of magnesium salts. There are also sources containing magnesium sulphate (126 grains) and about 100 grains of the carbonate and sulphate of calcimn, and finally a carbonated chalybeate spring. Leaji- INGTON (Warwickshire), about WO, R. 30, MT. 48°, a muriated sulphated water, with a re- latively large proportion of calcium sulphate. The large quantity of sodium chloride (678 grains) gives the water a slightly aperient action. There are excellent Tui'kish and other baths. Bridge-OF-Allan (ytirlingshire), ^(9, climate sheltered ; a muriated water containing about 380 grains of sodium chloride, and a relatively large quantity of calcium chloride. The water is taken internally and used for baths. Llangammarch (Brecknockshire), about 600, has a bracing climate and a nniriated water containing chlorides of sodium, mag- nesium, and barium (of the latter 6-7 grains), used both internally and for baths. Ashby-de- la-Zouche (Leicestershire), J4.OO, has a brine nearly equal in strength to sea water, at a natural temperature of 62'' F. Chalybeate Waters. — Tunbriuoe Wells (Kent), 4^0, a pure clialybeate, containing about 4-5 grains of the carbonate of iron, only used internally. Note also Cheltenham, Harro- gate, Stjiathpei-i-'er, Buxton. Many chalybeate wells in Great Britain, formerly much resorted to in their several localities, have now fallen into disuse. Among those that are at present employed is that of Flitwigk (Bedfordshire), which is bottled and sold. In tliis water the iron occurs in the unusual form of ferric sulphate. The chalylieate at Sandrock. near Blackgang Chine, that of Moffat in Scotland, and at Trefriw in AVales, besides others, con- tain the proto-sulphate of iron ; and there are carbonated chalybeate waters in most parts of the country. France Indifferent Thermal Waters.—Plombieres, IdOO, in the Vosges mountains, temperature 77° to 155° F., natural vapour baths and inhala- tions, as well as douches and sul)thermal immersion baths. St. Amand, 100, temperature 70" to 79° F., subthermal and sulphuretted mud baths. Neris, 1150, temperature 102° to 120° F. Mont Dore, 3440, in the Auvergne moun- tains. The water's vary in temperat»n-e from 104° to 116° F., and contain a trace of arsenic. The baths are thermal, sometimes as high as 113° F., and very hot pcdiluvia are used. The vwater is applied to the respiratory passages by pulverisation and inhalation. Dax (near Bayonne), temperature 88° to 147°, thermal mud and water baths, douches, inhalations, etc. Bagn{;re8 de BrooRRE (Pyrenees), 1S90, thermal (77° to 123° F.) feebly sulphiu-ous and chaly- beate waters. In addition to ordinary thermal treatment, prolonged subthermal baths are given. Aix - le.s - Bains (Savoy), 860. The thermal waters (109° to 112" F.) contain a trace of sulphuretted hydrogen. The neigh- bouring water of CHialles, a very strong sulphur water, is employed for internal use ; and that of Marlioz, in close proximity to Aix, for inhala- tion, etc. The characteristic treatment at Aix is the massage-douche in its various applications. The waters are also used for local and general vapour baths. Muriated Waters.—The following are ther- mal :—Chatel-Guyon, loOO, in the Auvergne mountains ; Bourbon L'Archambault, 870, and Bourbon Lancy, 780 (both near Moulins) ; Bourbonne-les-Bains (Dep. of Haute Marne), 900; La-Motte-les-Bains (Iserc), 2000, and Balaruc (near Cette). Salins, 1200, in the Jura mountains, possesses a cold muriated water with traces of bromides and iodides. Alkaline Waters.—Vichy (Dep. of Allier), 736, cold and warm springs, containing bicar- bonate of sodium (more than three hundred grains per gallon) with free cai'bonic acid and, in one case, a small quantity of iron. Inhala- tion, douche, and other baths. Vals (Dep. of Ardeche), a cold alkaline spring, rich in carbonic acid gas. Royat, I48O, has subthermal muriated alkaline water, containing bicarbonate of iron and free carbonic acid gas. The baths are sub- thermal or effervescing, and carbonic acid gas is also applied locally and gene^•all3^ The waters of Saint Nbctaire, 2500, are similar. La Bourboule, 2780, has a thermal muriated alkaline water containing arseniate of sodium, and used for drinking as well as for baths and inhalations. Like the two preceding spas it is situated in the Auvergne mountains. Evian- les - Bains, 12J/.0, on the Lake of Geneva, possesses a feebly alkaline water containing carbonate of calcium. SVLVIHTEII M VRIATED WaTERS. BrIDES-LES- Bains and Salins-Moutier (Savoy), 16-1800, have subthermal waters containing conmion salt and the sulphates of sodium, magnesium, and calcium—with carbonated and other baths. Saint Gervais, 2000, near Chamounix, has similar waters. Calcareous Wa ters.—ContrexevIli.e (Dep. of Vosges), 1150. The water is cold and con- tains sulplnu'ate and liicarbonate of lime. Pouges-les-Eaux (Dep. of Nievre), 650 ; Cran- sac (near the Volcano le Montet), 980, and having also natural sulphurous vapour baths ; Martigny-les-Bains and Vittel, 11-1200 (near Contrexeville), possess similar waters. Chalybeate Waters.—Lamalou, 620, in the