BONE, DISEASES OF 445 caseation of the marrow observed in the interior of phalanges, metacarpals, and metatarsals. This is the condition known as tuberculous dactylitis. In this the marrow is replaced by tuberculous granulation tissue, the shell of the bone is excavated from witliin, while new l)one is formed from without, very much as in the growth of central sarcoma, and the bone may present the appearance of having been expanded. This is the spina ventosa of the ancients. It may be limited to one end of the bone, or may extend throughout its entire length. At any stage in the disease, death of the shell of the bone may take place with the formation of a sequestrum which may consist of the greater part of the shaft, more or less altered by changes which preceded its death ; that is to say, it may be sclerosed in some parts, rarefied or perforated in others, and may present very little resem- blance to the normal bone from which it was derived. Clinically tuberculous dactylitis is much more easily recognised than lesions in the marrow of other bones; the bone being super- ficial there is visible increase in its girth, the swelling is usually spindle-shaped ; at any time there may be perforation of the shell of the bone, the tubercle then invades the periosteum and overlying soft parts, and gives rise to a cold abscess and sul)sequent sinuses. There may be difficulty in diagnosing between the dactylitis of tubercle and that of syphilis, and especially in recognising tul^erculous dacty- litis in a child presenting evidences of inherited syphilis {vide " Syphilis "). Tke Treatment of Tuberculous Dactylitis is influenced by the knowledge that spontaneous recovery is by no means uncommon, and that the functional results may be very much better than those following upon operative inter- ference, even although the finger may be per- uianently dwarfed. Aim at improving the general health and temporise with some placebo. The finger may be immobilised in plaster of Paris, or a blister may be applied. Operative interference is indicated if a cold abscess forms, or for the removal of a sequestnun where there is a persistent sinus. Amputation may be advised in the case of toes ; in the fingers it is rarely called for imless the disease is threatening to spread up the limb, along the lymphatics, or is otherwise endangering the general health. It will be more often required in adults than in children. In the larger long bones of the limbs diffuse lesions in the marrow are comparatively rare. The clinical features and anatomical changes associated with them correspond in the main to those described in the phalanges, except that, inasmuch as the bones are more deeply situated, there is greater difficulty in their recognition and in their differentiation from other chronic enlargements of bone, e.g. pyogenic osteomye- litis, tumour, syphilis, hydatids. The nature of the disease may only be recognised on exploring the enlargement of the bone by operation or by successful X-ray photographs. The treatment will consist either in clearing out the disease in the interior of the bone or in amputation. In the short bones such as those of the tarsus, diff'use infiltrating tubercle is also met with ; clinically it assumes the features of joint disease or of cold abscess, and the exact nature of the lesion is only recognised on exposure and section of the affected bone or bones. It is usually an indication for amputation, as several bones and joints are simultaneously affected ; if the dis- ease is less extensive, removal of the Ijones and tissues actually infected may suffice. Syphilitic Diseases of Bone These are the results of the infection of the marrow and periosteum by the syphilitic virus which has been conveyed to these tissues through the arteries. They are met with at any period of life subsequent to the original contagion. The graver forms of bone disease are chiefly met with in the advanced stage of acquired and inherited syphilis. Although it must be assumed that the virus is carried to all parts of the skeleton, the actual development of the disease is powerfully influenced by local pre- disposition on the part of individual bones, and by such external factors as exposure tO' injury. In point of frequency, syphilitic diseases of bone are much more rarely met with in practice than those due to pyogenic or tuberculous in- fection. They are also characterised by their predilection for certain bones which are rarely involved by the latter, by the predominance of disease of the shaft of the bone over disease at the articular ends, and hy the rarity of joint complications. The Early Lesions of Acquiked Syphilis.— Evanescent periostitis.—These are met with during the period of the early skin eruptions. The patient complains of pains over the fi'ontal bone, ribs, sternum, tibi;e, and uhife. The pains are distinctly worse at night while the patient is in bed. There is localised tenderness, elicited by tapping the bones mentioned. The patient may be unable to bear the pressure of a hat on the forehead. Swelling of the periosteum may be recognised on palpation; it rarely amounts to what may be described as a peri- osteal node. It is possible that the uiore deeply seated pains in the bones occasionally met with in early syphilis may be due to similar changes in the marrow. These early superficial lesions never suppurate ; they usually disappear with- out leaving any trace of their existence; they may, however, leave localised periosteal thicken- ings which may long remain painful and tender on pressure ; it is possible that such thickening on the inner aspect of the skull may be the