ASTHMA 318 administrations and inhalations. Hot coffee seems to do good, so, too, does alcohol, but it is not advisable to recommend patients to resort to alcohol for the relief of dyspnooic paroxysms. Astigrmatism. See Asthknopia ; Phy- siology {The Senses); Refraction ; and Retin- OSCOPY. Astigfmometer. See Refraction. AstomUS. — Complete absence of the mouth, as in the aprosopous monstrosity (q.v.); more often, apparent absence of the mouth by fusion of the lips {Si/nchelia). Astragralectomy.—Excision of the astragalus. See Deformities {Chib-Foot). Astrag'alus. See Ankle-Joint, In- juries ; Anklb-Joint, Diseases. Astrakhan. See Balneology {Russia). Astring'entS {see also Pharmacology). —Definition.—An astringent substance is one which can coagulate or contract the protoplasm, and consequently lessen the activity, of living cells and tissues, diminish the calibre of the arterial vessels, or cause the coagulation or precipitation of albuminous bodies in fluids. Astringents decrease cellular, secretory, and excretory activity, and diminish exudation. Hsemostatics and styptics are terms applied to astringents which possess marked powers of checking loss of blood. Various drugs act in- directly after the manner of astringents in lessening secretion or excretion, as, for instance, those which diminish the peristaltic movements of the intestinal walls. Modes of Action.—(a) Drugs which constrict the blood-vessels either generally or locally. Ergot, digitalis, and hamamelis are examples of drugs which cause vascular contraction by acting upon the vaso-constrictor centre ; dilute sulphuric acid, alum, and the application of cold may be taken as types of those acting locally. (6) Drugs which coagulate proteids in the blood or the cells. Lead, mercuric, copper, silver, and ferric salts; tannic acid, and drugs containing it; strong alcohol, hot water ; car- bolic and mineral acids in strong solutions, or pure. The areas of action influenced by the local application of these remedies vary in direct relationship with the nature of the coagulum produced. Thus the action of nitrate of silver extends over only a very limited range, owing to the formation of an inert silver albu- minate ; a property which is made use of in treating corneal affections, the thin skin of silver albuminate following from instillation of its solution protecting the cornea from chance of injury by further action. The iron per-salts act more widely ; while hydrochloric and sul- phuric acids in strong solution are able to re- dissolve the coagula formed by their action, and therefore may influence the deeper parts, nitric acid and glacial acetic acids are not able to do so, and exert a more circumscribed effect. The new synthetic compounds of tannic acid with various organic substances, such as tanno- form, tannopin, tannalbin, tannigen, and others, are credited with very favourable properties as intestinal astringents. Compounds of proteid and silver salts such as protargol are likewise of service in many conditions. As alcohol only precipitates and does not coagulate the proteid constituents of the tissues and blood, the precipitate caused by its applica- tion may shortly be redissolved ; its local action, therefore, is but temporary. (c) Remedies acting in a physical manner. Matico leaves, in virtue of their hairy surface, lycopodium giganteum, the puff-ball, cobwebs, cotton-wool, and other substances presenting a finely-divided texture, act as astringents (styptics or heemostatics) by facilitating co- agulation of the blood ; the contraction in bulk following on this constricts the blood-vessels. {d) Drugs exerting a local action on the tissues when given internally, but which do not cause contraction of the vessels. Tannic acid and alum when given by the mouth do not contract the blood-vessels, but when absorbed into the blood act as astringents, and must therefore affect the tissues them- selves. (e) Drugs having an astringent action upon the alimentary canal. The foregoing groups of astringent drugs act in the same manner upon the stomach and bowel; by contracting the vessels and by co- agulating or precipitating the cell - proteids. Other drugs diminish peristalsis—opium, chalk, and lead acetate—or decrease glandular secre- tion, and thus act in a manner which brings them within the group. Among the astringents which are of especial value in relation to the alimentary canal, but which seem to be inert, or at least act as inert bodies when applied externally, the salts of bismuth and oxalate of cerium may be cited. Their mode of action is obscure; the results of their action are very variable, but sufficiently often so beneficial that they must be accorded some astringent properties. Uses.—The most immediate uses to which astringents, including under the term styptics and hfemostatics, are put, undoubtedly consist in the arrest of haemorrhage and of diarrhoea. Hot water and pressure may suffice to check hsemorrhage from accessible parts ; if ineffectual, perchloride of iron in solution, nitrate of silver, the application of lycopodium, etc., can be tried. If the haemorrhage is internal, ergot, morphina, iron per-salts, the application of cold externally, and the adoption of absolute rest.