ANESTHETICS—ETHER 156 Ether and Renal Disease.—Hewitt says: " When advanced disease of kidneys is present, chloroform is said to be preferable to ether. But from the satisfactory manner in which patients with all forms of visceral disease pass through prolonged administrations of the latter anaesthetic, it is questionable whether we are justified in altogether withholding ether, at all events in some form or other, because Bright's disease exists." Ether in Asthma and Bronchitis.—Probably in most cases, and inevitably in some, the wisest course is to give chloroform for the early stage of ansesthesia, and then when tolerance of the anaesthetic has been attained to carefully intro- duce the ether, and if it were then tolerably borne to continue it to the end of the operation. " Ether in Postnasal Adenoids, enlarged Tonsils, and Nasal Stenosis."—I have never used any anaesthetic but ether in these opera- tions, and have never met any difficulty or alarm, and I have been operating on such cases on the modern plan for nearly fifteen years. Owing to obstruction of the nares, it is in the first instance more difficult to get the patient well under the anaesthetic, but when the patient is once under the influence of ether there is in my experience no further difficulty, even if a reapplication of the face-piece should be needed. In these operations I invariably have the patient's head hanging over the edge of the table. The first step is to remove the tonsils with the guillo- tine, and the second step is to dilate the nostrils with Hegar's dilators up to 7, 8, 9, or 10, accord- ing to the age of the patient, and then all the rest, scraping away of adenoids, dealing with bleeding, which, profuse at first, before long abates, easily follow. Apparently, if we may judge from published records, choloroform is in these cases exception- ally dangerous. Abdominal Operations.—In these I invari- ably use ether, and I cannot say that I have met with the difficulties of muscular rigidity which others speak of. Dr. Hewitt says on this subject, p. 49, " But the behaviour of the patient under ether is greatly dependent upon the manner in which the anaesthetic is ad- ministered." Ether in Obstetrics.—Of this I have but little experience beyond one case. A relative had chloroform for four confinements, and sub- sequently of her own choice ether for four con- finements. I gave the aneesthetic on most of the occasions. The point in reference to ether that struck me was this. After the patient had once been anaesthetised, if at the first indication of a pain coming on the Clover was applied, three or four deep inspirations sufficed to pro- duce the necessary analgesia. The process was easy to manage, and very little ether was used, and the patient had no desire to return to the use of chloroform. " Can Rules for Administration op Ether BE Formulated?"—In the earlier part of this article I have put into form a series of general rules for the administration of ether which I have found useful for the guidance of myself and others whom I have influenced in this respect. It is most satisfactory and interesting to find that they are identical in principle and almost in detail with those originally set forth in one of the earliest papers written on the subject, by Mr. Cautley Dawson ^ in the year 1878, who was then my assistant, and had gained his experience in giving ether in my private prac- tice. The same may be said of the rules set forth by Hewitt in his work from which, by his permission, I have made several quotations, and by Dudley Buxton in his work on "Anaes- thetics," 1888. The same may be said of the views expressed by E. F. White, one of the anaesthetists of St. Thomas's Hospital, in his speech at the meeting of the Society of Anaes- thetists, 16th December 1898.^ They are very fully reported in the Clinical Journal for 7th and 14th December 1898, and 11th and 18th January, 8th and 15th February 1899. Other Anaesthetics A.C.E. Mixture . 156 Nitrous Oxide Gas . . 157 Nitrous Oxide with Ether . 158 Bromide of Ethyl . . 159 Pental ..... . 159 Infiltration Method of Local An.es- thesia ..... . 159 See also Anaesthesia, Ethyl Chloride ; Cocaine ; Ear, Local Anaesthetics ; Nose, Local Anaesthetics ; Teeth ; etc. The A.C.E. Mixture, devised by the late Dr. George Harley, is a useful one when ether can- not be employed and it is inadvisable to use chloroform. It consists of alcohol, chloroform, and ether in the proportions, by volume, of 1, 2, and 3, of sp. gr. -838, 1-497, 735 respectively, Martindale suggests a better mixture, consisting of the ingredients of the sp. gr. '795, 1"497, "720 respectively, the mixture having a sp. gr. of I'Ol. The alcohol probably acts simply as a menstruum, and may be replaced by eau de Cologne. When evaporated from a closed in- haler (a practice which is not to be commended) it is impossible to be sure that the vapours are given off' in the proportion in which the in- gredients occur in the mixture, ether probably coming off" first and chloroform being taken in increased strength as the administration pro- ceeds. It is best, therefore, to use the mixture from a cone, a Rendle's mask, or some such simple contrivance, pouring a few drachms on at a time, or it may be used with a Skinner's 1 Brit. Med. Journal, 2nd March 1878, p. 289. ^ Clinical Journal, lltli January 1898, p. 200.