ALOPECIA 113 Prognosis.—The prognosis in cases of alopecia areata varies greatly. In young persons, and when the disease is in patches, recovery nearly always takes place ; on the other hand, if the disease has affected large surfaces and has lasted for two years, perhaps with repeated and gradually lessening attempts at recovery, the prognosis is bad. Such cases occin- often in elderly people, and the affected scalp may be observed to be slightly and superficially wrinkled, and atrophied, while the hair follicles are scarcely visible. Treatment. — Success in the treatment of alopecia depends greatly on the character of the case. In many of the varieties of the disease mentioned above, treatment is of little avail, as in cases of senile alopecia, alopecia circum- scripta, and general or diffuse alopecia. On the other hand, in alopecia following acute fevers, and in some varieties of syphilitic alopecia, the natural progress is towards recovery, a tendency which may be greatly hastened by appropriate treatment. In all cases of doubtful causation every care must be taken to improve the general nutrition of the patient, and underlying condi- tions, such as syphilis or myxoedema, will obvi- ously require appropriate treatment. The form of alopecia most amenable to treat- ment is that produced by seborrhoea, and as this condition complicates many of the varieties of alopecia, it always claims attention. In all cases in which seborrhoea is present it should be kept in check. Directions should be given to wash the scalp or affected skin frequently. A soap lotion, e.g. R. Saponis mollis., o'^iij. Spirit, myrcise acris, ^ij. Alcohol (90%), ad gxij. M. may be prescribed. From one to three ounces is mixed with half-a-pint of warm water and used to wash the scalp; the soap should be washed completely out of the hair, and both hair and scalp dried thoroughly. The hair and skin should not be left in this state, as the hair becomes brittle and the skin too dry or even irritated, bvit some form of oil should be used and applied to the skin with friction. With the latter application the drugs found useful in the treatment of alopecia can be readily incor- porated. Of these remedies those found to be of most service are sulphur, resorcin, and the salts of mercury. A pomade for the scalp may be used, such as— R. Resorcin, grs. 5 to 20 Sulphuris precipitat., grs. 10 to 30 2%-6% Adip. lanse hydros., oj- to oij- 12%-24% Paraffin albi moll., ad 5]. to 100 pts. M. VOL. I A small amount of almond oil shoidd be added if the wool fat makes the preparation too tenacious, and aromatic oils may be added if required. Care must be taken in carrying out this treatment not to produce an inflamma- tory reaction in the scalp or skin; the cleansing and antiseptic effects only of the treatment are desired. The amoiuit of the potash soap, the strength of the ingredients in the salve, and the frequency of the application can be varied so as to regulate the result. Frequently the use of an ointment such as the above is objected to, especially by persons with thick or long hair, on account of the discomfort produced by its greasi- ness. As a useful alternative the drugs may be used in the form of a lotion, e.g. R. Olei ricini vel olei amygdalae, 3SS. 10% Resorcin, 3iss. 1%—2% 01. roste, ol. neroli, etc., gutt. v. Alcohol (90%), ad gvj. to 100 pts. M. The amount of oil may be increased if neces- sary, and other drugs may be combined with proper pharmaceutical precautions. In place of solutions of soap, preparations containing borax, quillaia saponaria, saponin, etc., are freqiiently of service. In addition to the anti-seborrhceic treatment outlined above, applications containing counter- irritants are recommended and widely employed. By their use it is desired, by producing a certain degree of erythema of the affected scalp, to in- crease the nutrition of the hair papillae. This method of treatment must be used carefully, so as not to produce an inflammatory condition of the cutis, which will obviously do more harm than good. The remedy most used to accom- plish this is cantharides, which is the active ingredient of many of the " stimulant" scalp lotions. Such a prescription as this may be used :— R. Tinct. nucis vomicae, 5SS. Tinct. cantharidis, 3iiss. Glycerini, 5iiss. Acidi acetic. §ss. Aq. rosae, ad gvj. M. Ft. lotio. To be applied gently to the scalp night and morning. (After Tilbury Fox's prescription.) Many other remedies are used for producing the same effect, such as solutions of ammonia, solutions of acetic acid, volatile oils and similar preparations, such as the oil of cade, ol. pini sylvestris, ol. betulae pyrolignei, oil of rosemary, capsicum, etc. Other remedies in use for similar purposes have useful antiseptic properties, such as phenol, resorcin, chloral, quinine, and perchloride of mercury. Jaborandi and its alkaloid pilocarpine have been much used on account of their physiological effects on the skin, but with very A'ariable and doubtful results. 8