ASCITES 286 in testicle or ovary. A simple chronic peritonitis, which is sometimes associated with chronic in- terstitial nephritis, and is sometimes of unknown origin, is not uncommonly the cause of extreme ascites, necessitating repeated tappings. The mere presence of a tumour in the peritoneal cavity may be followed by the effusion of ascitic fluid, most commonly in the case of tumour of ovar^'^ or uterus. The enlarged spleen of leucocythiemia, and less commonly that of malaria, may act in the same way, but here the effusion may be partly attributable to the blood-condition. (c) Under certain conditions ascitic fluid consists wholly or in part of chyle, derived from the thoracic duct or the lacteals. A chylous ascites is not a common event. It is usually moderate in amount, but as much as 16 litres of fluid may accumulate, and frequent tappings may be necessary. In rare cases the extravasation of chyle has been due to traumatic rupture of the thoi'acic duct in some part of its course. The duct has been ruptured by a carriage passing over the thorax, without apparent injury of pleura or lung. In one case rupture occurred during an attack of whooping-cough. But in most cases it results from obstruction situated either at some point of the duct, or in the mesentery, where the lacteals leave the intestine. Under the first head may be mentioned blocking of the duct by a secondary growth, carcinoma or sarcoma. It may be blocked by thrombosis at the point of junction of left subclavian and jugular veins. In one case these veins and the origin of the left innominate vein wei'e found to be occluded by contraction. When the obstruction is thus high up in the course of the duct, a chylous effusion is commonly present also in one or both of the pleural cavities. Lower down in its course it may be compressed by a tumour of any kind, or it may be blocked by blood-clot resulting from injury. In one case the duct was found to be compressed by enlarged bronchial glands. It may be occluded by parent filarise, but a chylous ascites is not among the common phenomena of filariasis. Under this head of duct-obstruction must be placed a recorded instance of mitral insufficiency and cai'diac failure, in which the duct was found to be dilated, and chylous ascites ensued. In some of these instances of obstruction the duct ruptures, usually at the receptaculum, as is commonly the case after experimental ligation. Sometimes it is found obliterated, as if a previous rupture had occurred. Often it is dilated, and dilated lymphatics can be seen on the surface of intestine and mesentery. As regards the mesenterj'', the most common cause of a chylous ascites is a simple chronic adhesive peritonitis, whereby the lacteals are obstructed as they leave the intestine. The same result has been known to occur in tuberculous and carcinomatous peritonitis. Compression of the root of the mesentery by carcinomatous glands has also been noted as a cause. (B) Ascites as a jMrt of a general disorder.— Ascites commonly occurs as a part of the general dropsy of cardiac and renal disease. In both cases there is oedema elsewhere, and often also an eff'usion of fluid into some other serous cavity. Occasionally the ascites is con- siderable and is out of proportion to the dropsy of other parts. It may occur as the result of any form of cardiac failure, whether due to change in the cardiac muscle or to pericardial adhesions or to chronic pulmonary disease. Small amounts of fluid may be recognised also in conditions of extreme cachexia and ansemia from any cause. Causation of Ascites in Children. — In children as in adults, ascites may be part of a general dropsy of renal origin. It may also depend upon cardiac failure, whether due to valvular disease or to pericardial adhesions. On the other hand, chronic pulmonary disease and blood-conditions play little or no part in its production. As regards local abdominal conditions, carci- noma as a cause disappears, cirrhosis sinks into the background, and tuberculous peritonitis is predominant. Cirrhosis has been noted at all ages, but, as a cause of ascites during the first five years of life, it is uncommon in comparison with tuberculosis of the peritoneum. A simple chronic peritonitis is even more rare than in adults. Sarcomatous infection of the peri- toneum has been rarely recorded. Both sarcoma and enlarged tuberculous glands have been known to cause ascites by pressure on the portal vein outside the liver. A gumma or hydatid in the liver may be the cause, but with a syphilitic interstitial hepatitis, life is seldom prolonged beyond a few months from birth. In the diagnosis of the cause of ascites in children assistance may often be obtained from the administration of an anaesthetic and from a rectal examination. Characters of Ascitic Fluid.—Ascitic fluid varies considei'ably in its characters, and the following classes may be recognised :— (1) Serous Fluid, resulting from portal obstruction, cardiac failure, and renal disease. It is usually clear, pale yellow or straw-coloured, with a slight greenish tint. It is occasionally opalescent, and the opalescence is not removed by filtration. It is alkaline or neutral. The specific gravity lies between 1008 and 1012. This maximum is sometimes slightly exceeded in ascites of cardiac origin, while the fluid of renal disease has commonly a lower specific gravity than that due to portal obstruction. It has very little power of spontaneous coagula- tion, but on standing a light clot will sometimes be formed. The proteid-percentage varies from 0'2 to 2-0, the lower limit being commonly