ACHONDROPLASIA 39 used to be regarded as a sort of fa^tal rickets, until it was pointed out by Depaul and others that the bone lesion was not at all the same as in that disease. It was afterwards thougiit to be a form of foetal cretinism (Virchow, Eberth), l)ut this also has been disproved. It is now believed to be an entii'ely different disease, and a number of names have been applied to it which indicate its effect on the growth of the bones. Achondroplasia (Parrot) is that which has been most used in this country and in France, while in (lermany it is more often referred to as Chondrodystrophia Fcetalis (Kauf- mann). As Parrot lias pointed out, achondroplasic dwarfs are found in many of the sculptures of the ancient Egyptians ; and several of the old masters have introduced figures of this type into their pictures. Etiology.—The causation is still quite obscure; neither syphilis, alcoholism, nor malnutrition of the parents has anything to do with it. Several writers (Porak, Boeckh) have recorded instances of its being hereditary. It certainly also seems to have a tendency to occur in the same families as cases of sporadic cretinism, infantilism, and ordinary dwarfing. Hence some have attributed it to a morbid action of the thyroid (Hertoghe), but this has not been pi-oved. Among certain of the lower animals well- marked instances of the condition occasionally occur. It is also interesting to find that there are distinct breeds of dogs (bassets or dachs- hunds), cattle (natos), sheep, and goats which habitually present most of the peculiar de- formities characteristic of achondroplasia. Time of Origin and Course.—The disease sets in during early foetal life, and is said to run its whole course between the third and sixth months. At l)irtli, accordingly, we only find tlie results of past disease, and not an advancing process, as in congenital syphilis or rickets. Probably it is only in the slighter cases that the infant is capable of surviving birth. Hydranmios is very often present, and the labour is generally pre- mature. Abnormal jjreseutations are common, and prolapse of the cord has often been noted. Even if the infant is born alive he is generally so weakly that he dies within a few days. Should the child, however, survive early infancy, the subsequent development of his muscular, cutaneous, and reproductive systems is normal, and his intellect is unaffected. The chances of life in these cases are probably as good as those of an ordinary individual, except in the case of women who become pregnant. Pathology.—The main abnormality consists in an interference with the growth of certain bones. 'I'iiis is found to be due to the endochondral ossification, by which they normally grow in length, V)ecoming more or less completely arrested at an early period of intra-uterine life. Conse- (juently, the cartilage cells at the epiphysial lines show none of the arrangement into parallel rows which is the preliminary to normal bone- formation. In the new-born infant this defect is found to be entirely confined to the bones which grow in cartilage during early foetal life, wliile those which are formed in mem- brane are unaffected; and those cartilage - formed bones in which ossifica- tion does not begin before birth, or not until late in intra uterine life, are not involved at all, or only to a slight degree. Thus we find that the clavicle and the cranial vault, also the sternum, costal cartilages, patelhe, car- pus, and tarsus, are of normal size, while the long bones of the ex- tremities, the ribs, the innominate bones, and the jjosterior part of the base of the skull are more or less stunted in growth. In many cases the basis cranii is not only shortened, but its three osseous nuclei are prematurely united. The thyroid gland is unaffected. Clinical Features. — The deformity which results from the above-mentioned distribution of the bone-lesion is very characteristic. The head is of fully normal size, the cranium being high and bulging in front and at the sides. There is usually an abrupt depression at the root of the nose, and the whole nose and upper jaw may be depressed. The tongue often pro- trudes. The trunk is of normal length, but narrow from the shortness of the ribs and from the pelvic deformity. The arms and legs ai'e little more than half the normal length, their bones lieing thick, as well as short, with veiy large epiphyses, and the curves which they present being exaggerations of those normally present. The limbs are often encircled by deep sulci, as if the skin were redundant. When the palm is flat the fingers do not lie parallel as in a normal hand, but diverge somewhat, two usually turning towards the radial and two towards the ulnar side. Tiiere is occasionally some degree of hydrocephalus, and sometimes considerable swelling of the subcutaneous tissues. A number of cases of short-linibcd ncw-l)Oi'n children have been published which differ from the above description in the following I'espects. Sojue of the long bones, especially those of the legs, present acute curvattire of their shafts ; the epiphyses are not greatly enlarged ; the hands do not show any almormality ; and there is usually, if not always, extensive craniotabes. Althouiih these cases have sometimes been