BRAIN, SURGERY OF some part of the sensorimotor area of the brain cortex; and it has been noticed that such an organic lesion will be always found in that part of the Ijrain cortex which corresponds to the muscles which are fii'st to be conviilsed, while the extent to which such convulsions spread to neighbouring parts depends upon the severity of the initial irritation—in other words, the slighter the cortical irritation the more localised will be the convulsions, and vice versa. There is often a feeling of considerable weak- ness left for a time in the muscles chiefly involved in an attack of Jacksonian epilepsy. Sensory Epilepsy is the term applied when the centres corresponding to the organs of special sense are involved by disease. Thus the senses of sight and hearing, taste and smell, are occasionally affected, and if an attack of epilepsy begin by a perversion or hallucination referred to one of these senses, we may be guided to a correct diagnosis of the position of the initial lesion—for example, a flash of light or hallucina- tion of sight points to the occipital lobe; a perversion of taste or smell to the tip of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe ; a sound to the tem- poral convolutions. In like manner, an irritation of the third frontal convolution of the left hemisphere (which in right-handed people is the motor speech area) may be followed hj an arrest of function of speech, this constituting the aphas/c form of epilepsy, while a lesion in the frontal lobes may be evidenced by temporary inter- ference with the mental functions. Traumatic Epilepsy.—A considerable number of cases of Jacksonian epilepsy are referable to an injury. There are certain points to be borne in mind in this connection, viz. that the epilepsy may not show itself for a long time—several years, it may be, after the infliction of the injury ; that the apparent severity of the trauma has not necessarily any relation to the severity of the fits; that a hereditary tendency to epilepsy is frequently present in those who develop epileptic symptoms after injuries to the head, and it seems to act as a predisposing cause. In a few cases a mere injury to the soft jjarts covering the skull seems capable of causing the tits, pressure on the resulting cicatrix occasionally giving rise to a seizure by reflex action. The sliull is frequently the site of the lesion, a depressed fracture, particularly in the shape of a sharp spicule of the inner table, irritating the subjacent brain. (This fact appears to indicate the propriety of elevating depressed bone in recent cases of fracture, even if no signs of compression of the brain are present.) The dura mater is often thickened and ad- herent to the skull or membranes beneath, and these in their turn may be altered and adherent to the brain. The brain itself may show evidences of in- jury, such as cysts (the result of hcemorrhages), patches of softening, sclerosis, or local cere- bri tis. While the majority of cases of Jacksonian epilepsy with localising symptoms is due to traumatism, other causes are occasionally met with, e.g. tumours of different kinds growing from the skull, membranes, or brain; cysts and other alterations in the brain or membranes, the result of embolism or thrombosis in the blood-vessels, etc. Treatment.—The surgeon, having determined that he has to deal with a case of epilepsy suitable for operation, frequently finds a difficulty in deciding at what point to open the skull, as the localising symptoms may not point to that part of the cortex which lies underneath the site of the injury. " When, however, the injury and the localising symptoms do not coincide, it is better to follow the localising symptoms rather than the surgical injuiy" (Allen Starr). The chief indication in operative interference is, of course, to remove the cause of irritation where that is possible. Where the symptoms depend on a depression or outgrowth from the bone, or an alteration in the dura mater, the prospects of recovery are extremely good; where, however, the brain itself is at favilt the results of operation are not encouraging. In some cases the cortex is visibly altered in colour and appearance, and if this area cor- responds to the localising symptoms, it is recom- mended by some surgeons to excise the patch of cortex so altered. In some cases no such alteration can be found to correspond to the symptoms, and in these cases Horsley recom- mends the use of a mild faradic current, by which the exact area corresponding to the convulsed muscles may be discovered with a view to its removal. While this pi'oceeding may put an end to the fits for a time, it necessarily causes paralysis of the muscles con- cerned, and in the course of time the cicatrix resulting from the operation is apt by its con- traction to set up a renewed condition of irritation with return of the fits. The prognosis of cases of epilepsy which are not operated on being extremely unfavourable, and the dangers of an exploratory operation being very small, it is wise to recommend surgical interference, as it is not often possible to make a definite diagnosis till the skull is opened. While the large majority of cases are much benefited for a time by operation, in a large proportion (especially where the focus of irritation cannot be removed without damaging the cortex) the fits recur after a time; a guarded prognosis should always accordingly be given. If operation be thought advisable, it should not be too long delayed, as it is important not to- allow the epileptic "habit" to become confirmed.