375 BILE AND BILIOUSNESS tions of the hepatic cases are more or less inefficiently performed, less than the normal amount of l:)ile may be excreted, and those substances from which it is manufactured will in part be carried in the general blood-stream. This condition is very different from "bilious- ness," for there is a lack of bile, not an excess, while the symptoms approach very nearly in many cases the accepted signs of the latter, although due chiefly, it is probable, to the presence of poisonous substances in the blood, whose decomposition into innocuous compounds forms no imimportant part of the hepatic duties in health. A " sluggish liver" generally stamps its possessor as one who eats too much and too rich food, takes too little exercise, and is care- less about the evacuation of his bowels. A "bilious temperament," with a sallow skin and indigestion, probably arises from an excess of pigmentary matter in the skin, and a weak digestion, usually overtaxed, with a chronic state of mild auto-intoxication superadded. A " bilious attack" spells gastric or duodenal catarrh, or both. The chronic tingeing of the conjunctiva with yellow, so often regarded as a proof of a bilious habit, is only a sign of some diflicidty attendant upon the passage of bile in its course from the liver cells to the bowel, which disturbs the pressure lialance of its secretion. In treating " biliousness " the present course of the affection has first to be determined, then dealt with secundum artem. Bile-Ducts. 'S'ee Gall-Bladder and r>[i.K-l)ucTs, Diseases of. B i I h arz i a H as m ato b i a. See H.ema- TURiA; Liver, Parasites ; Parasites {Trema- todes). BilharziOSiS.—The parasitic disease due to tlie blood fluke, JJi/harzia Hopmatohia ; hfeniic distomiasis or endemic htematuria. See HyEMA- turia ; Liver, Parasites; Parasites {Trema- todes). Bill-.—Bili-, signifying bile, is used as a prefix in various compound words and deriva- tives, and especially in the names of the bile pigments, e.g. hilicyanin, hiliflavin, bilifulvin, hiliftiscin, hUihumin, hiliphmin. biliprasin, bili- purpiirin, bilirubin, and biliverdin. See Physio- logy {Food and Digestion, Bile-Pigments) ; Pigments of the Body and Excreta. Bimanual Examination. <S'<?e GY\E<'()I.(i(iY, DiAilNOSIS IN. Binaural Stethoscope. >sVeChest, Clinical Examination of, etc. Binder. See Puerrerium, Physiology {M<in<tg< inent. Obstetric Binder). Binocular Vision. See Physiology {The Senses, Vision). Bio-. As a prefix, bio- signifies life; it is used in such words as bioblast, biochemistry, bio- dynamics, biogenesis, biognosis, biology, biolytic, biomagnetism, biometry, biophore, biop>lasm, bio- scope, biostatics, and biostatisti.es. Bipolar Version. &e Labour, Opera- tions (Version). Bipubiotomy. <S'ee Labour, Operations {Syiiiiilbysiotomy, Pubiotomy). Birth. See Adrenal Glands {Haemorrhage into, at Birth); Capillaries, Diseases of {Birth-Marks); F(etus and Ovum, Development OF {Changes in Circulation at Birth); Labour; Medicine, Forensic {Conceabnent of Birth) ; New-Born Infant {Still-Birth); Paralysis {Cerebral Diplegia, Birth Palsy); Pregnancy, Multiple ; Vital Statistics. Biscuits. See Diet {Products de^-ived froui Cereals). Bisferiens. See Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Pulse in Aortic Stenosis); Pulse {Bisferiens Pulse). Biskra Button. See Furunculus Orientalis. BismuthOSe. A tasteless and insoluble combination of bismuth and albumen, which has been used internally in the treatment of diarrhoea (chronic enteritis, acute intestinal catarrh) and cholera infantum, in doses of a half to one drachm (in mucilage). It has also been recommended in gastric ulcer and hyper- acidity, but has produced troublesome constipa- tion. Externally, it is used for eczema and burns. Bismuthum. See also Breath; Chil- dren, Clinical Examination of {Fceces, Darken- ing of); Diarrhcea ; Pharmacology ; Pre- scribing ; Toxicology {Irritants). — Bismuth itself is not official. The following are the salts used: — 1. Bismuthi carbonas, a heavy white insoluble powder. Dose—5-20 grs. Pre- paration — Trochiscus Bismuthi Compositus. 2. Bismuthi subnitras, a heavy white crystalline powder, insoluble in water, but soluble in dilute nitric acid. Dose—5-20 grs. Preparation— Liquor Bismuthi et Ammonii Citratis, com- monly known as Liquor Bismuthi. Dose—i-1 fl. dr. 3. Bismuthi oxiduni, a heavy yellow powder, insoluble in water, but soluble in dilute nitric acid. Dose—5-20 grs. 4. Bismuthi sali- cylas, a heavy white insoluble powder. Dose— 5-20 grs. Externally bismuth may be used as a dusting powder on account of its protective and slight [ astringent properties. It has also been em-