ABDOMEN, INJURIES OF 12 of the peritoneum, the matter must at once be decided by dissection. With a penetrating wound, and signs of in- ternal hajmorrhage or perforation of viscera, there can be no question about the propriety of performing coeliotomy without delay, unless the condition of the patient is quite liopeless. The duty of the surgeon to interfere is not considered, by some, to be imperative in cases in which a penetrating wound exists without evidence of visceral lesion or severe haemorrhage. There is, however, a growing consensus of opinion that operation should be imdertaken in all cases of penetrating wound, in order that a definite conclusion may be formed as to the existence of visceral complications or not. Considering the increased mortality caused by delay in cases of perforation of the viscera, and the fact that a very small proportion of pene- trating wounds are free from such complications, the ti'eatment of all penetrating wounds by coeliotomy seems the most reasonable—and the sooner after the receipt of the injury the better. All operations must be carried out with due antiseptic precautions. If any of the viscera are protruding, but otherwise uninjured, they should be returned into the abdomen after enlarging the wound, if necessary. Should intestine wliich is protruding be wounded, it should be sutured or excised, according to the amount of injury, before being returned. In severe cases, where the patient is not likely to be able to bear so long an operation as enterectomy, an artificial anus must be formed. In prolapsed and lacerated omentum the injured area may be tied oif, and removed, before the omentum is replaced in the abdominal cavity. In prolapsed and lacerated spleen, the organ should be partially or completely resected, as such operations are more successful than re- position. Where it is desirable to explore the abdominal cavity for reasons already given, the incision should be so placed as to provide the greatest possible freedom in any necessary manipulations. For this purpose it may be sufficient, in many instances, to enlarge the wound in the parietes; but for the majority of cases an independent median incision is the best for a general explora- tion of the whole cavity. The exact line of incision cannot be indicated in general terms. In every case it may be in- ferred that the injured organs lie in the line of the wound in the parietes, and the incision should be made accordingly. In most cases the line of incision will be in the mid-line. This is certainly best in wounds of the stomach, transverse colon, and small intestine, and in cases of severe internal haemor- rhage. In gunshot wounds, where the course of the ball has been across the median line; where the ball, entering near the middle line, passes directly backwards; or where the course of the bullet is unknown, the median incision is also best. On the other hand, there are cases wiiere an incision, not median, is indicated, as in wounds of the caecum, or of the ascending or descending colon. After incision of the parietes, the source of any hosmorrhage should at once be sought. In this we may be assisted by packing the abdomen with sponges; but, in the most severe cases, it has been recommended that an assistant should introduce his hand through the parietal opening, and digitally compress the aorta below the diaphragm, until the source of haemorrhage is found. Bleeding from the larger blood-vessels of tlie abdomen, or from the edges of a wound in the stomach or intestines, may be controlled by ligatures of silk or catgut. Haemorrhage from the solid viscera must be met by deep suturing, gauze tamponnage, or removal of the organ as mentioned under contusions with visceral complications. After the haemorrhage has been stopped, search must be made for perforations and any injury repaired. If there has been so much extravasa- tion of visceral contents that irrigation of the abdomen is considei'ed desirable, time may be saved by carrying this out while the search for perforations is being conducted. The use of hot normal saline solution in this way will also be found of service in combating shock. A system- atic examination of the wliole intestinal tract and all the fixed viscera cannot always be done with impunity, and we must be guided by a rational consideration of each case in deciding to what extent such examination shall be carried. Only those fixed organs which lie in the line of injury need be examined. Thus, if a bullet has passed through the lumbar region, perforat- ing the ascending colon on its anterior and posterior aspects, there is no necessity for examining the stomach or the transverse and descending colon. In looking for gastro-intestinal perforations much valuable time can be saved by the use of Senn's hydrogen inflation test, already referred to; and beyond the fact that it may make it a little more difficult to return the distended intestines, there can be no objection to its use after the abdomen has been opened. In apply- ing tlie inflation test by the rectum the intestine will be distended up to the point of perforation; beyond it the intestine is collapsed. In this way the lowest perforation can be found. It is then recommended that the inflation should be used (with a clean nozzle) through the perfora- tion befoi'e closure, in order to find a second perforation higher up. In so doing pressure must, of course, be made below the first perfora- tion, to prevent the gas travelling towards the