ACNE 42 only becomes pathogenic in tlie presence of a peculiarly favourable soil. The combination of characters here set forth (morphological and regional), especially the presence of comedones, makes the diagnosis easy as a rule, and enaliles a distinction to be made from acne varioliformis, bromide and iodide acne, and the generalised or specially distributed acneiform syphilides and " tuberculides." A clear conception of certain points will assist, viz. (1) the distinction between the true comedo and the many states of plugging of the follicles with dark - headed collections of sebum or epithelium, accompanied hj more or less con- gestion or inflammation; (2) the differences between the acne or acneiform papulo-pustule, and sycosis and impetigo pustules. Acne varioliformis (Hebra - Kaposi), Acne pilaire (Bazin), Acne with depressed cicatrices (Besiner - Doyon), Acne frontalis or necrotica (Boeckh), Acne rodens (Leloir-Vidal), Folliciditis varioliformis (Unna), is an eruption usually of adults, affecting the borders of the scalp, particularly the foreliead, or involving the scalp, the whole face, the upper part of the chest, or the back ; and probably on rare occa- sions still more extensive. It runs a chronic course by the constant evolution of fresh lesions, and it may recur. It is characterised by the formation of rosy projections seated around the pilo-sebaceous orifices, or of shotty acneiform nodules, or occasionally still larger nodosities. These papules may, or may not, become capped with a degree of pnstulation (sometimes um- bilicate), and it is characteristic of them that they undergo a necrotic mummification, so that the crust forming, at first yellowish and later darker, rapidly sinks into the skin and accurately covers an indelible cicatrix, shallow or deep and varioliform, which is finally disclosed l)y the fall of the crust. No comedones are formed. The eruption is usually disseminated, but it is also described as forming linear, more or less circinate and corymbose groups. AH degrees of severity are seen, depending on the number and size of the lesions, the intensity of the process, and the regions involved. Unna separates Boeckh's closely related acne frontalis necrotica. Unna ascribes the distension of the follicle, and its closure l)y a firm scale of horny lamelhe, to the enormous growth of a small bacillus within it, morphologically and tinctorially very similar to his acne ))acillus, but without the same tendency to longer growth. Crust forma- tion, he says, is due to the secondary growth of the diplococci of seborrhoeic eczema, which sup- plant the V)acilli, and, finding themselves in a peculiarly favourable soil, set up a sero-fibrinous inflammation of a character unusually deep and intense for them, and necrosis often results. With a little experience the diagnosis is generally easy. The acneiform papulation and pustulation without comedones, the peculiar necrosis, the depressed crusts, the indelible varioliform scars with the special localisation are very significant. Recurrent localised syphilides give rise to the greatest difficulty. Acneiform lesions with necrosis may also occur in scrofulo- tuberculous subjects (" tuberculides "), but the border of the scalp is a very exceptional site for them. Acne rosacea, or, better. Rosacea, is the term given to a chronic aft'ection in adults of the glabrous portions of the face, sometimes extend- ing to the neck, characterised by the presence of one, or generally a combination of several, of the following changes—(1) Hypersemia, smooth, superficial, or deep, at first intermittent, then remittent, and lastly permanent with exacerba- tions ; (2) hj'perfemia or catarrh with some ex- foliation or inci'eased outflow of oil, and often associated with " eczema seborrhoeicum " of the scalp; (.3) profound erythema with infiltration of the corium of various degrees, at first oedematoiis, then plastic, with either compara- tively few inflannnatory papules or papulo- pustules, or with a severe red, coppery, or vinous acne (nodular and pustular); (4) telan- giectases or dilated veins of various sizes, in lines or networks, localised or diffused ; (5) in extreme or very chronic cases hypertrophic changes leading to a very general thickening of the tissixes of the face. An extreme form of the latter change", localised to the nose and immediately adjacent portions of the face, is known as rhinophyma, and consists of a voluminous tumour-like hypertrophy of the sebaceous glands, or of a filiromatous growth^ or of both in various combinations. The essential Itasis of rosacea appears to be either a hypera;mia or a seborrhoeic catarrh of the skin, or a combination of them in a hyper- femia which favours the determination of a seborrhoeic catarrh. The other changes are consecutive or secondary. According to Uiuia, rosacea in nineteen cases out of twenty is a seborrhoeic catarrh, secondary to a similar affection of the scalp. There is, however, a special tendency to vessel dilatation and an absence of the usual epithelial growth and spongy metamorphosis. Like any other sebor- rhoeic catarrh rosacea may be conjoined with secondary purulent infections and furuncles may develop. In the twentieth case rosacea is a simple angioneurosis which never leads to hypertrophy. We think that Unna does not l)ring into sufficient prominence the hyperfemia of the face, which is really the essential basis, and on which the seborrhoeic catarrh and secondary infections may be engrafted. This hypersemia is sometimes directly produced, as in cooks and others exposed to the fire, or in coachmen exposed to the weather; frequently reflex from catarrh of the stomach, or from disorder of the genital apparatus, and then intensified at the menstrual periods or at the