ANKLE-JOINT, REGION OF—INJURIES AND DISEASES 197 ankle-joint from (jtlier fornix of injury, there can be no doubt that, in the future, con- servatism will replace amputation, formerly «o universally adopted in the treatment of all gun- shot injuries of the ankle, whenever the extent of the injury does not otherwise preclude all hope of recovering the functions of the limb. Treatment.—Every eti'ort must be made to obtain healing without suppuration. Asepsis and inunobilisation of the foot at right angles to the leg are the all-essential principles. When a projectile has passed right through the ankle, the wound of exit must be explored, and the degree of fragmentation of the bones deter- mined. The condition of the astragalus especially should be examined, as this bone is apt to be not only comminuted, but actually pulverised, when struck by a bullet at a high rate of velocity. If necessary, the wound of exit must be enlarged to permit of the removal of all loose fragments of bone, and often the whole astragalus had better be sacrificed. The divided ends of tendons and nerves must be, whenever possible, carefully brought together, and re-united by fine silk or chromic gut sutures. The woxmd is now irrigated with 1 in 30 carbolic lotion, or 1 in 3000 sublimate solution. After provision for drainage has been made, and the part covered with a thick layer of wood-wool, provision for rendering the joint immobile must be arranged, and in such a manner that any change of dressing does not involve disturbance of the parts. Should conservative treatment have been attempted and have failed, secondary excision may be practised in suitable cases, and is attended with considerable success. In the majority of such cases, however, the extent of the local mischief, or the patient's general con- dition, will call for secondary amputation, and fortimately the mortality of this operation is small. Primary amputation is demanded when the soft parts are extensively torn away, when there is extensive comminution or tissuring of the bone, and especiallj' when the tissuring of the tibia and fibula extends beyond the malleoli up the shafts of these bones, and when at the same time the posterior tibial vessels or nerve are destroyed. No more of the limb thaii is neces- sary should be removed, and Syme s amputation or disarticulation of the foot at the ankle is to be preferred whenever possible. Ankle-Joint, Fractures in the Vicinity of THE.—The most important as well as the most common of these fractures is the one with which the name of Pott is associated. It is produced by forcible eversion and abduction of the foot, often the result of a slip off' the kerbstone. Occasionally it takes place by forcible inversion and adduction. Usually the astragalus is forced against the inner surface of the external malleolus. In consequence of this impact the fibula first bends and then breaks at its weakest part, which is about three inches above the tip of the malleolus. Besides the fracture of the fibula, the internal lateral ligament is ruptured or the internal malleolus itself is torn off. In most of these cases a very characteristic deform- ity is met with. The foot is displaced out- wards, its outer border is raised, while the sole of the foot looks downwards and outwards. As the upper end of the lower fragment of the fibula is forced towards the tibia there is a marked depression in the situation of the frac- ture. In I)upu7/tre7i'x fracture the interosseous tibio- filnilar ligament is ruptured or the tibial margin to which it is attached is torn off'. The foot, taking with it the lower end of the fibula and the lower outer edge of tibia, which has been separated, is displaced upwards and backwards, while on the inner side, either the internal malleolus or the ligament will give way. The foot is also displaced outwards to a considerable extent, and only to a slight degree everted. There is very marked prominence of the inner ankle, which is nearer the sole than normal. There is a very appreciable increase in the dis- tance between the two malleoli. The length of the leg, measured to the tip of the outer malleolus, is diminished. In these two fractures, besides being dis- placed outwards, the foot has a decided tendency to slip backwards, occasionally to such a degree that the body of the astragalus lies entirely behind the tibia. When a Pott's fracture is left untreated, and union takes place with the characteristic deformity unreduced, the back- ward displacement of the foot is very noticeable. This can be readily shown by mapping out the outline of the lower part of the fibula, when it will be found that the portion of bone below the fracture forms an angle with the shaft. Some- times the ankle-joint is laid open, the fractured internal malleolus coming through the skin, or an unreduced displacement may produce slough- ing of the skin covering the lower end of the tibia, in consequence of the press\u-e exercised upon it. Fracture of the E.rternal Malleolus alone is produced by an inward twist of the foot. The fibula is broken at a lower point than in a Pott's fracture, from one inch to an inch and a half from the tip of the external malleolus. Occasionally, instead of a fracture of the lower end of the fibula, separation of this bone from the tibia is brought about. This accident should be suspected when pain is produced on pressure over the tibio-fibular joint. The tip of tiie internal malleolus is also in rare instances broken ott' by the pressure of the astragalus against it, in a twist of the foot. No special treatment is required for these minor and com- paratively unimportant fractures; the foot is to be kept at rest for three or four weeks, and when the patient begins to move about, some