ANKLE-JOINT, REGION OF—INJURIES AND DISEASES 202 occur, and the case will progress from bad to worse. Symptoms.—The most important symptom nndoubtedly is swelling, which as a rule first appears in front of the malleoli, at either side of the extensor tendons. Fulness also appears at the back of the joint, thus obliterating more or less the hollows on either side of the tendo Achillis. Later, the swelling becomes general, extending all round the malleoli and masking the extensor tendons. Wasting of the muscles of the calf occurs at an early stage and is often very marked. We are of opinion that muscular wasting takes place more rapidly in tuberculous disease than in most other joint-afi:ections, and that it is a point of diagnostic importance in doubtful cases. The movements of the ankle are more or less impaired. This, however, may only be noticeable when the joint is fully flexed or fully extended, the middle ranges of move- ment being almost perfect, that is, if the articular surfaces are not involved. Walking is interfered with to a greater or less degree. The amount of pain varies very much, and gives little help in arriving at a diagnosis. The last remark also applies to the presence or absence of local heat and tenderness. When the joint- lesion is secondary to tuberculous disease of the bones, the latter are usuallj^ greatly enlarged. This is especially marked in the case of the malleoli, but is less easily detected in the case of the astragalus. Howard Marsh places the symptoms of tuberculous disease of the ankle- joint in the following order of importance : (1) Swelling; (2) Limping; (3) Wasting of the calf-muscles; (4) Stifthess of the joint; (5) Heat of the surface; (6) Pain; and (7) Tenderness. When suppuration occurs the pus gradually makes its way to the surface, and points either in front of, or less frequently behind, one of the malleoli. Occasionally it bursts into the tendon - sheaths, and tracks widely along them. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of these cases is sometimes very difficult. They ai-e liable to be confounded with tuberculous disease of the lower ends of the tibia and fibula, of the tarsus, or of the neighbouring tendon-sheaths. Fortun- ately in the earlier stages the treatment is the same for all these affections. When sinuses are present, the direction which is taken by a probe gives valuable and reliable assistance. In all cases, however, when an operation is necessary, the incisions should be made very carefully, so as to avoid opening joints previously uninfected. Treatment.—When the disease is seen in the early stage and in the case of children, it can iisually be arrested by a proper course of treat- ment extending over from six to twelve months. Recovery may then take place with little or no impairment of the part. After the age of puberty the chances of success without resorting to operative measures are not so great. It is absolutely essential that the joint he kept at perfect rest, and this may be effected by splints of leather, poroplastic felt, or gutta-percha, or by strapping the ankle with mercurial ointment. An excellent method is the use of Paul's splint- ing with plaster-of-Paris bandages. Care must be taken to keep the foot at a right angle with the leg. Appropriate constitutional treatment should also be adopted. Later, when the disease is quiescent, plaster or silicate bandages may be applied, [and the patient allowed to move about on a Thomas's knee-splint, or with the knee flexed on a bucket-and-pin leg. Other methods of treatment which have been recommended are the injection of iodoform emulsion and the production of hypercemic engorgement of the joint by means of bandages. These methods are still sub judice. If, in spite of treatment, the disease progresses, or if suppuration have occurred, the operation of arthrectomy should not be delayed. During recent years, when great care has been taken to remove the whole of the infected tissue, very good results have been obtained, but if any tuberculous bone or synovial membrane be left behind, a recrudescence of the disease is to be expected. The details of the operation will be considered later, but it may be stated here that the exact method to be adopted must vary with the extent of the tuberculous process. If the astragalus be much diseased, or if the joint- affection be at all extensive, excision of this bone is indicated, with subsequent removal of the whole of the diseased synovial membrane, and of affected portions of the articular surfaces of the tibia and fibula. The results of this operation, as regards the usefvilness of the limb, have been very satisfactory. When it is deemed inadvisable to remove the astragalus, access to the joint may be gained by division of the malleoli at their bases. In cases of extensive disease, where we cannot hope to get a good result by arthrectomy, it is necessary to resort to amputation. Syme's amputation is sufficient in most cases and leaves an excellent stump, but it is open to the objections that the line of section is very near the seat of disease, and that portions of tuber- culous material may be left behind. If the tibia and fibula be much diseased, if the suppuration have extended upwards along the tendon-sheaths, or if the heel be riddled with sinuses, it is better to amputate through the lower part of the leg. Syphilitic Affections. — The ankle would appear to be the third in the order of frequency with which various joints are affected by syphilis. The knee claims a very large pro- portion of syphilitic joint-aff'ections, and the elbow a moderate number, whilst the ankle is only occasionally involved. In the secondary stage, syriovitis with effusion may occur about the same time as the skin eruptions and throat affection. In the tertiary stage the ankle may