ADRENAL GLANDS 75 and Targett have published valuable and critical papers on the subject. Kelynack, in thirty-two collected cases, finds that males are more often affected than females (20 to 12); the average age was fifty years for males and forty-five for females, the extremes being nine and a half months and seventy-nine years. Both kidneys are affected equally. The duration of the disease varies greatly, from a few months to ten years; the growth may remain local for a considerable period and then rapidly give rise to metastasis. Secondary growths occur in two-thirds of the cases, the lungs being the most frequent situa- tion. Histologically these tumours resemble the carcinomata and are composed of cells like those of the adrenal body. The same difficulties are met with in classifying these growths that have been already referred to in connection with primary malignant growths of the main adrenal bodies. M'Weeney, after an able dis- cussion of this point, though inclining to the view that they are carcinomatous, prefers to adopt the non-committal title of "kidney tumours derived from suprarenal rests." Clinically these tinnours cannot be differen- tiated from renal growths. The treatment is of course removal ; this has been done in several instances with STiccess. Adrenals, Marchand's. — Small adrenal structures found in the broad ligament of the uterus and in other places. Vide preced- ing article. Adulteration. See Food, Milk. Advancement.—An operation for the cure of straV)ismus, in which an ocular muscle is shortened or has its point of attachment altered. See Ocular Muscles, Affections of. Adynamia.—A state in which there is serious depression and impairment of the vital powers, bodily and mental; typhoid state. /Eg'Ophony.—A bleating quality of the voice resonance, heard on auscultation in some diseases (see Pleura, Diseases of, and Pneu- monia, Clinical Section) ; bleating broncho- phony. Aerobic or Aerobiotic—Requiring free oxygen, either in the air or in water, for respiration. See Micro-Organ isms. AerOCele.—A swelling formed by air in an adventitious pouch. See Neck, Region of. Aerophagfia.—The habit of swallowing air ; generally hysterieal in origin. See Indi- gestion {Flatulent Bi/spe/isia). Aerophobia.—The fear or dread of air or of contact with it. Aeroporotomy. — Intubation, tracheo- tomy, or any operation for admitting air into the air-passages. AerO-TherapeUt iCS.—The treatment of disease liy air, warm, moist, compressed, rarified, or containing medicinal agents. See Balneolo(!Y and Therapeutics. /Esculap. See Balneology (Austria). /Esthesiometry.—Measurement of the acuteness of tactile sensibility by an instrument (eesthesiometer, Sieveking's or Carroll's) with two movable points. Alfusion.—The pouring of liquid (from a heiglit) upon a part of the body. *S'ee Balneology. Africa. *S'ee Balneology (Africa), and Therai'eutics, Health Resorts. African Letharg^y. See Sleeping Sickness. Afterbirth.—The placenta or (less often) the secundines. See Fcetus, Development of ; Labour ; and Pregnancy. After-Imag'e.—An impression on the retina remaining for some time in the conscious- ness after the light is withdrawn; it may be positive or negative. See Physiology (Vision). After-PainS. See Puerpbrium, Physi- ology. Ag^alactia.—Defective secretion of milk after labour. See Infant Feeding. Agfar-Agfar.—Bengal isinglass ; a thick jelly formed by the solution of a dried sea-weed (from the East Indies) in water; is used as a culture medium for micro-organisms. See Micro- organisms and Post-mortem Methods. Agfaricin.—A principle extracted from white agaric {Polyporus officinalis); has been used to check the night-sweats of phthisis. Agfaricus. See Toxicology (Fvnr/i). Ag;'enesia.—(l) Impotence; (2) defective develiipuiciit (if a part of the body. Ag'eusia.—Absence of taste. See Glosso- pharyngeal Nerve a?id Hysteria. Agrglutination. — The phenomenon whicli tV)ll(iws tlie contact (if micro-organisms with an innnune serum whereliy they lose their motility and aggregate in clumps; the Widal test. See Immunity : Typhoid Fever (Patho- logy) : and Undulant Fever. Agfg'lutinin.—The principle (hypotheti- cal) believed to cause the clumping of bacilli in typhoid and other cultures ; paralysin.