217 ANTHROPOLOGY great age of man is now generally adniilted, tens of thousands of years having been sub- stituted for the four thousand and four years B. C. with which Archbishop Usher and the thinkers of his day were contented. The existence of man in the (Quaternary geological period, in the time of the post-glacial drift, is proved by the discovery of the fossil remains known as the Neanderthal skeleton, the Spy specimens, the Krapina fragments. The morpho- logical characters of these remains (consisting of calvarias, femora, humeri, clavicles, ribs, teeth, etc.) point to their belonging to individuals specifically distinct from the modern Hominidic, and to them, therefore, the name Homo primi- genius or Homo neanderthalensis has been given. Other remains have been found of about the same geological age which show so close an approximation in character to the modern Hominida'. as to be classified with them ; among such are the Egisheim, Tilburg, Cro-Magnon, and other ci-ania ; they are placed with the modern Hominid;e (Homo sapiens). The remains found in association with the Lake Habitations and the Kitchen Middens bridge over the gap between Quaternary man and the men of the earliest civilisations {e.g. the Egyptian). The existence of man before the Quaternary period, in the later part of the Tertiary epoch, is now suspected. The dis- covery by Dubois (in 1S92-94) of remains at Trinil in Java, in strata regarded as Pliocene {i.e. late Tertiary), has brought this question to the front, and has, for some observers, settled it in tiie afiirmative. The remains, known as Pithecanthropus erectus, consisted of the upper part of a cranium (a calvaria), a femur, and three teeth; and, while they had undoubtedly some strikingly simian characters, they also had others which were distinctly human. Three views have been held i-egarding the Javan remains : they have been looked upon as those of a human ancestor, not yet quite human, the " missing link " in fact; or as truly human, but abnormal in nature (those of a microcephalic idiot); or, finally, as truly simian, but simian with a degree of cephalisation quite above that of any existing anthropoid ape. The bearing of these facts upon the antiijuity of man is obvious, for if Pithecanthropus be really the pithecoid ancestor, the missing link, then it is apparently necessary to postulate an enormous range of time for the evolution of the modern Hominidro from him. It is possible to contrast the skulls found at Abydos in Upper Egypt, and dating from perhaps 5000 B.C., with those of the modern dwellers in that part of the Nile valley (as has been done, for instance, by C. S. Myers in t\\Q Journal of the Anthropological Inatitute of Great Britain and Ireland, vol. xxxv. p. 80, 1905), and to come to the conclusion that no progressive evolution'of characters has taken place in the 7000 years. We are brought. therefore, to this result, liiat if the rate of evolution of new characters were as slow in the early ages of man's history as it has been shown to be within historic and recent pre- historic times, a great, a massive anti(.juity must be allowed to account for his development from such an ancestor as Homo neanderthalensis and much more from Pithecanthropus erectus. But it is possible that in the early stages of the evolution of mankind progress may have been more rapid, and that the human characters then present were more plastic, as it were, before they became so typically human. It is to be noted that in the human embryo development is much more rapid than in the fa'tus, and more rapid in the fa'tus than in the child ; from this fact we may perhaps get the suggestion that evolution was more rapid in the early "em- bryonic and foetal " periods of the history of mankind than it is now in this which we call either the infantile or the adult age of man, according as we look or do not look for any great changes yet to occur in him. To summarise the substance of this paragraph, it may be said that while the existence of Quaternary man is proven, that of Tertiary man (either as Homo or Pithecanthropus) is still doubtful, but not impossible. Another anthropological question is concerned with the place of man in the zoological series. In order to determine this pi'oblem it is neces- saiy to study not only Comparative Morphology but also Comparative Physiology and Psychology. Man, from his structure as well as from his development (Comparative Embryology) is un- doubtedly a mammal, and is related most nearly to the apes. Erom the morphological stand- point, man is placed with the apes in the order of the Primates; and he constitutes by himself the first of the seven families of the Primates, viz. the Anthropini. (The other families are those of the Catarhini, the Platyrhini, the Arctopithecini, the Lemurini, the Cheiromyini, and the Galleopithecini.) .Structurally there are many and marked difierences between the skull and brain of man and those of the apes ; but it is important to remember that there are greater difierences between the apes themselves than between man and them, and the lemiu's are separated by a wide interval from the apes.^ Man is most nearly related to the Simiida^ (including the gibbons, the orang-utans, the chimpanzees, and the gorillas); should, how- ever, new specimens of Pithecanthropus erectus be discovered, it may become necessary to interpolate between the Hominida; and the Simiidic a new family, that of the Pithecan- thropidre. A study of Comparative Embryology ' So nuirked are the differences that the order of the Primates lias lieen divided into two sub-orders, that of the Lemuroidea (containing the Leniurid», the Tarsiida;, and the Cheiromyi<l») and that of the Anthropoidea (contain- ing the Hapalida;, the Cebids, the Cercopithecidae, and the Siniiida;).