ANESTHETICS—ETHER 152 immediate deaths from chloroform in healthy persons undergoing minor operations. Factor 1. The need of a bulky apparatus.— This difficulty may arise in country practice, especially where the medical man does most of his work on horseback, but it ought not to in- fluence a practitioner in a town. Indeed, as far as it is a pardonable factor, it covers a very small proportion of the cases in which an anaesthetic is required. Factor 2. Faulty construction of Ether In- halers.—That many modem " Clover's inhalers " are defective in construction, I am perfectly certain, and I am not less convinced that such defects are a great discouragement to those wishing to acquire the art of administering ether. 1 rarely see an inhaler which equals my own, bought 22 years ago, when first invented by Clover. Competition for cheapness, wholesale manufacture, and " made in Germany" are greatly responsible for this deterioration. Probably the most common and the most mischievous fault of all is a had shape of face-piece. There are three directions in which the face- piece may be faulty — (a) The Shape op the Mask, at the edge of which the hollow cushion OOOD OOUBTrUL 6/VD is fixed, is sometimes oval (Fig. 3) and some- times triangular (Fig. 2). These forms are bad. The proper shape is that of a horse-collar (Fig. 1). Seen in profile the cushioned edge should not be straight, but should recede in a slight curve at the top and the bottom (Fig. 4). This provides for the projection of the bridge of the nose and of the chin, and thus allows the in- flated sides to fit into the hollows of the cheeks. (b) The Hollow Cushion should be of soft thin rubber, thin enough to partially collapse when the air is let out, otherwise when distended with air the cushion will be little better than solid rubber, and will fail to adapt itself to the irregular contour of the face, (c) Another im- portant POINT in reference to the cushion is that it should be so attached to the edge of the mask that when compressed against the face it should overlap both the outer and inner edge of the mask (Fig. 5), i.e. when in use it should not roll to the inside of the mask and so allow the hard edge to press against any part of the face (Fig. 6). There -tmist be invariably two face-pieces, one for adults, and a smaller one for younger people. For the sake of cheapness and competitioii, some makers issue inhalers with one face-piece only. This is a fraud, and worse, as it renders the use of the inhaler impossible for young people. The ^^ivhistle" when attached to the "face- piece " should be fixed by means of the indicator which it carries into a bayonet joint, otherwise it is apt to become loose and slip out of its socket. The india-rubber ba<] should be of soft rubber —and not less than 13 inches in length. These bags are often too small, and so entail more labour than need be in inhalation. Factor 3. That the satisfactory admiiiistration of ether is a highly skilled art, and needs to be taught and learned.—Unless the administrator has acquired the art he cannot give ether with comfort to the patient, or with efficiency, or with any satisfaction to himself, and he natu- rally falls back upon chloroform, the administra- tion of which is more simple and apparently more easy. Further, I know, from the experience of a long series of intelligent assistants, that the proper use of ether can be taught, and quickly taught, by one experienced in the art, by ob- servation of a few simple rules, aided by trained and sympathetic clinical observation in the pupil. As a formula usefully expressing in diagram- matic form the principle on which the inhalation of ether should be regulated, I often appeal to the curve of "harmonic progression," illustrated by the strings of a harp. If this curve be divided into three portions, the first third represents the period of overcoming the patient's fear, his shrinking from the contact of the face- piece, the breathing through the ether chamber, the tasting of the ether, and the inflation of the bag, each of them formidable to a timid person unaccustomed to take an anaesthetic or retaining an unpleasant recollection of a previous administration. During this period the patient's confidence is gained, and toleration of the taste and pungency of the ether vapour becomes established. The index of the inhaler would stand at the end of the period at a half. In the middle third the patient loses consciousness of the unpleasantness and choking effect of the ether and becomes mentally confused and practically unconscious. The index would have now reached one and a half. In the third period, the patient having lost consciousness, the index is moved on more