277 ARTERIES, LIGATURE OF branches of profunda femoris, and external cir- cumflex with sciatic pubic twig from obtui-ator with pubic from deep epigastric. Ligature of the Internal Iliac Artery.— This artery may demand ligature for haemor- rhage from, or aneurysm of, one of its larger branches (notably the gluteal artery when wounded, or the seat of an aneurysm near the great sacro-sciatic foramen). The artery is a short, thick vessel averaging one and a half inches in length, and dips downwards and backwards into the cavity of the true pelvis from the bifurcation of the common iliac artery to the upper margin of the great sacro-sciatic foramen. Anteriorly it is crossed by the ureter and covered by peritoneum ; important posterior relations are the lumbo-sacral cord and the in- ternal iliac vein. Operation.—The artery may be reached by the same incision as that employed for the extra-peritoneal ligature of the external iliac artery, but this method is difficult and involves working in the dark. The intra - peritoneal operation is in all cases to be preferred. The incision four and a half inches in depth is made in the median line commencing one inch below the umbilicus. The intestines are drawn aside and the bifurcation of the common iliac artery, with the internal iliac artery springing from it, demonstrated. The peritoneum covering the arteiy is then incised and the artery cleaned three-quarters of an inch below the bifurcation of the common iliac. The aneurysm needle is passed from within outwards, and care is taken to avoid including in the ligature the ureter. Ligature of the Gluteal Artery. — This large branch of the internal iliac artery leaves the pelvis at the upper part of the great sacro- sciatic foramen above the pyriformis muscle. If a line be drawn from the posterior supe- rior spine of the ilium to the centre of the tro- chanter major, the thigh being somewhat ro- tated inwards, the junction of the upper third with the middle third of this lino will mark ulutoal arterv Gu^t^L ARTERt GRtAT SUATIC Postonor view of tlie liip sliowini; tlie situ.-i- tiori of the bones and chief arteries. {After Qimin.) the place of emergence of tl from the pelvis. Operation.—A five-inch incision in this line exposes the fibres of the gluteus maximus muscle which are separated and retracted. The deep fascia beneath the great gluteal muscle is now divided, and the artery foimd at the upper edge of the pyriformis. The vessel is separated from its accompanying vein and the superior gluteal nerve, and ligatured as near to the pelvis as possible on account of the division of the artery jtist after its emergence from the pelvis. Ligature of the gluteal artery may be em- ployed in cases of stab and traumatic aneurysm in which the artery may be presumed to be healthy. In the rare cases of spontaneous aneuiysm, ligature of the internal iliac artery should be the operation selected. Ligature of the Sciatic and Internal PuDic Arteries.—These vessels hardly ever demand the application of a ligature. If a line be drawn fi-om the posterior inferior spine of the ilium to the tuberosity of the ischium, the junction of the middle third with the lower third of this line will mark with sufficient accuracy the point where the sciatic artery emerges from the great sacro-sciatic foramen from under cover of the pyriformis muscle. The internal juidic lies just internal to the sciatic artery. Operation. — An incision in the line above mentioned, after separation of the fibres of the gluteus maximus and division of the deep fascia underneath the muscle, will expose the sciatic and internal pudic arteries. The vessels can easily be differentiated as the sciatic artery follows the course of the sciatic nerve, whilst the internal pudic artery, which lies to its inner side, i-e-enters and disappears through the small sacro-sciatic foramen. Either the sciatic or the internal pudic artery may be ligated, due care being taken to avoid any injury to their accompanying veins. Ligature of the Femoral Artery.—This artery is more frequently ligated for anem-- ysm than any other artery in the body. It fref[uently also demands ligatui'e for haemorrhage. The vessel may be tied in one of three places: (1) just below Pou- part's ligament (the common femoi'al artery); (2) at the seat of election at the apex of Scarpa's triangle (superficial femoral) ; (3) in Hunter's canal The vessel has there- fore so great surgical import- ance that a short description of the course of the artery may here be given. The femoral artery has its course in the upper three - fourths of the thigh, extending from Poupart's ligament above to the opening a, Ligature of Com- mon Femoral Art- ery ; B, Ligatnre of Femoral in Scarpa's triangle ; C, Ligature of Femoral Arteiy in Hunter's Canal ; D, Ligature of jVnterior tibial artery in upper third of leg: E, Liga- ture of Anterior tibial artery in middle third ; F, Ligature of Anterii >r tibial artery in lower third; G. Ligature of Dorsalis Pedis Arterv.