ADRENAL GLANDS 68 be allowed to refer the reader for this to the article in AUbutt's System of Medicine, vol. iv. The theories as to the method by which the symptoms are produced are :— 1. The Nervous Theory.—This is based on post-mortem dissection, showing that inflam- mation spreads from the adrenal bodies to the adjacent semilunar ganglia and sympathetic. The important element is the lesion of the sympathetic; this is usually secondary to tubercle of the adrenal bodies, but it may be en- tirely independent of any change in them. The changes are first irritative, and thus give rise to vomiting and pigmentation, and later become atrophic and degenerative, and are then correlated with great debility and collapse. This theory explains satisfactorily cases where the adrenal glands are found to be healthy and where the sympathetic is involved in growth or inflammatory adhesions. It does not, however, explain cases where the sympathetic has been carefully examined and found to be normal. According to Arnaud and Alexais, however, the important lesion is an affection of the ganglia embedded in the cap- sule of the adrenal bodies; this lesion may be well marked when the semilunar ganglia and sympathetic are healthy, and thus the nervous theory can be upheld even in the absence of any change in the abdominal sympathetic and semilunar ganglia. But the comparative rarity of ganglion cells in the capsule of the adrenal bodies renders this hypothesis somewhat un- stable, and in any case it will not hold for cases of Addison's disease due to simple atrophy of the adrenal bodies. The nervous theory will therefore not explain all cases of Addison's disease, and cannot be considered as exclusive. 2. Theory of Adrenal Inadequacy. — This postulates that Addison's disease is analogous to myxcedema, and that it is due to an absence of the internal secretion of the adrenal glands. The absence of the internal secretion might theoretically lead either to a condition of general apathy and atony, or, upsetting the balance of metabolic processes in the economy, to a con- dition of toxsemia. Possibly both factors may play a part: at any rate, in the present state of our knowledge it is impossible to be more precise. The evidence in favour of this theory is (a) that the adrenal bodies in health contain in their medulla an active principle which raises blood-pressure and exerts a marked influence on muscular tissue; {h) that this active principle has been shown by Oliver and Schafer to be absent in the adrenal bodies from a case of Addison's disease; (c) that muscular weakness, low blood-pressure and cardiac weakness are marked features of Addison's disease; and {d) that these symptoms may be relieved by the administration of adrenal extract. Against this theory it might be urged that in some cases the adrenal glands are healthy, and that the sympathetic is involved in growth. In reply to this it might be said that the growth may very probably compress the efferent vessels from the glands, and so prevent the secretion getting into the circulation. Another objection is that, as already pointed out, the adrenal glands maybe extensively destroyed by secondary growths without any symptoms of Addison's disease; it is possible that in these cases accessory adrenal glands were present, and able to provide sufficient internal secretion, and that compensation was thus brought about, or that death from the primary growth supervened before the symptoms due to the secondary destruction of the adrenal bodies had time to develop. Of the two theories, that of adrenal in- adequacy is the more probable, but there is one strong objection, viz. that whereas the adminis- tration of adrenal extract does good in some cases, it does not have much or any effect in a large number. This fact points to the probability that neither of these two theories is exclusively right or wrong, and that there is a third conceivable explanation of the relation- ship between the symptoms of Addison's disease and its morbid anatomy. 3. Theory of the Duality of Addison's Disease. —This is a compromise, and has the advantage that it will satisfactorily explain, as far as is known at present, all cases of Addison's disease. It has been recently advocated by Byrom Bram- well and Boinet. Some cases of Addison's disease are due to adrenal inadequacy alone; these are relieved by the administration of the extract, and are associated with atrophy of the adrenal glands. In the other and the larger number of cases, which are but little benefited by taking adrenal extract, two factors are at work—(a) adrenal inadequacy, (6) irritation of the abdominal sympathetic. If this theory is correct, the effect of adrenal extract would be of considerable value in prognosis. Onset and Course. — The disease begins insidiously, the patient having been in indifferent health for some considerable time before coming imder observation. In rare instances the symp- toms come on suddenly, and the disease runs a rapid course. This sudden onset may be caused by a shock or sudden depressing circum- stances ; in these cases there may be nO' pigmentation. The gastro-intestinal symptoms and debility as a rule appear first, and after some interval pigmentation follows ; occasionally this order is reversed. The disease varies very much in its course, it often remains stationary for a time; its progress is distinctly irregular. There are exacerbations with periods of quies- cence between, but after each paroxysm the patient is left a little worse than before the