AIR, EXAMINATION OF 79 minimum in late winter. He found another maximum in spring, and a minimum in early summer, but neither of them so well marked. The following is the result of six years' daily observations in the quadi-angle of the University of Edinbur<rh :— Jan. 3-33 Feb. 3-64 July. Aug. 3-39 3-44 Mar. 3-48 Sept. 3-45 April. 3-41 Oct. 3-83 iMay. 3-34 Nov. 3-88 Jiuie. 3-35 Dec. 3-38 No such variations have been observed in Paris. Saussure found the amount of carbonic acid greater during the night than during the day. Fodor's experiments show that while this is so in autumn, in spring there is more in the morning than the evening. Similar residts were got in Fdinburgh. Besides these regular varia- tions there are those of a minor degree. The amount is greater at sea than on land, and less at great elevations than at sea-level. The effect of fogs, if present, appears to be exceedingly small. If observations made on the day before a fall of rain be compared with those made on the day of the rainfall, we find, while not invari- ably the case, the average of the former is greater than of the latter. The method of estimating carl)onic acid in the air which was devised by Pettenkofer is at once simple and exceedingly accurate. It consists in absorbing the gas in a given quantity of the air by means of a solution of barium hydrate of about 7 grams to the litre. This solution must be preserved in a bottle furnished with a syphon tube by which the solution can be withdrawn, and an arrangement so that the entering air must first pass over soda lime to deprive it of any carbonic acid. By this latter arrangement the strength of the solution remains constant. The strength of this solution is determined l)y a solution of oxalic acid of such a strength that 1 c.c. is equal to \ c.c. carbonic acid at 0° C. and 760 mms. Such a solution of oxalic acid is made by dissolving 1-41 grams of the pure recrystallised acid in 1 litre of distilled water. The amount of air analysed should be not less than 5 litres, for accurate work 10 litres is necessary. For the larger quantity of air it is better to use the method of slowly aspirating it through the solu- tion of bariimi hydrate contained in one or more Pettcnkofer's absorption tubes placed in series. The rate of aspiration shovdd not exceed 4 litres per hour. If the smaller amount of air be analysed, then the " bottle " method should be used. The method of collecting the sample of air varies. Into a perfectly clean and dry 5- or 6-litre bottle the air may be pumped by a bellows for about five minutes. There is here a danger of contamination with expired air of the opei-ator. The author has found that a wide-mouthed bottle, perfectly cleaned and allowed to dry, if placed in the open air, will, in two hours, by diffusion, contain a sample of the air of the place. An extended series of observa- tions showed that residts got by this method differed quite inappreciably from the results got by the aspiration method. The mouth is now closed with an india-rubber cap, and the bottle removed to the laboratory; 100 c.c. of the solution of baryta is added, the cover replaced, and the bottle shaken from time to time during an hour, after which the solution is poured into a clean stoppered bottle and allowed to settle for a night. In testing the strength of the original Ijaryta solution we do not examine lOO c.c. of it, but only 25 c.c, i.e. a quarter of it, and the solution of oxalic acid, as has been pointed out, is of a strength that each c.c. is equal to a qiuirter of a c.c. of carbonic acid. The number of c.c.'s required is the same as would have been required if we tested the whole 100 c.c. with a solution of oxalic acid, 1 c.c. of which was equal to 1 c.c. of carbonic acid. The advantage of this is obvious when we come to examine the solution of baryta that has absorbed the carbonic acid from the air, as we can make three separate tests or titrations at least from every experiment, and thus be able to check the work. Example :— 25 c.c. original baryta solution = 42'5 c.c. oxalic acid solution. 25 c.c. after absorption of car- bonic acid . . . . 40'1 Amount of carbonic acid in air examined . Capacity of bottle Deduct bulk of baryta solu- tion added 2-1 c.c. 5400 c.c. 100 Amovuit of air examined = 5300 c.c. The volume of air is now corrected for tempera- ture and pressure by the well-known calcidation, and the amount of carbonic acid calculated in 10 litres, i.e. volumes per 10,000 volumes, at 0' C. and 760 ms. AmuomA.—Ammonia or ammoniacal salts are present in very small quantity in the atmo- sphere. The following results are per 1000 litres :— Buda-Pesth. Paris. Edinlnu-gh. Mgrms. 0-03 0-024 0-029 Fodor found it highest in summer and lowest in winter. He considers that the amount of ammonia present in the air of a locality is a measure of the amount of decomposition of animal matter taking place at the surface. At a time when the air of the quadrangle of Edin- burgh University contained as a mean 0-021 mgrms. per 1000 litres, the atmosphere of a restricted area of the citj-, which was being- raised by the deposit of building- and other rubbish, and where therefore there was a ffood