124 AMPUTATIONS As a rule, flaps are cut of unequal length to avoid having the cicatrix opposite the end of the bone. Racket-shaped or Oval Method.—In carrying out this method the head of the " racket" is formed by making a circular or slightly oblique cut round the limb down to the bone. The handle of the "racket" is formed by making a vertical cut upwards from the first incision in the long axis of the limb. The exact position of the vertical cut depends upon the anatomy of the part. Main vessels and subcutaneous bones should be avoided. This method may be carried out in any situa- tion, the length of the handle of the " racket" depending on the depth of the bone. The edges of the incisions may be brought together in one of two ways : the immediate result in the one case appearing like an inverted T, which, at a later date, takes the form of a leech bite Y, in the other like the letter L. Amputations through the Lower Extremity Amputations of the Foot.—The usefulness of the foot as a bearing surface depends upon the fact that it is a tripod. In order that the stability of this tripod be not interfered with, it is essential that there be no shortening of any of the limbs, and that there be no approxima- tion of any two of the limbs. In operations on the foot, therefore, where it is found necessary to interfere with the tripod, sufficient periosteum should, if possible, be left, so that new bone may be formed. By this method shortening of the limbs of the tripod may, to a certain extent, be prevented. This is especially important in operations involving the great and little toes or the os calcis. To obviate the second difficulty the breadth of the foot, in front, must be preserved. Care should be taken to avoid having the cicatrix on the plantar surface. In all amputations of the foot it is better to dissect the bone off the flap. By thus cutting upon the bone there is less danger of injuring the flap. Amputation of the Terminal Phalanx of the Great Toe.—In this operation the skin on the under surface of the toe is utilised as a plantar flap. The knife is entered on the dorsum of the toe, opposite the interphalangeal joint; carried through the joint, and then along the under surface of the phalanx. The flap is thus prac- tically cut by transfixion. It can also be made by dissecting it off the bone. The apex of the flap is then stitched to the margin of the in- cision on the dorsum of the toe, and thus no cicatrix is left on the bearing surface. The above operation was formerly frequently performed for exostosis. It is now usual simply to remove the tumour with its cartilaginous cap. Amputation of Second, Third, and Fourth Toes.—Having ascertained the position of the metatarso-phalangeal joint, the surgeon takes a firm grasp of the toe to be amputated, the assist- i ant keeping the other toes out of the way. ] The knife is entered on the dorsum, immediately 1 above the metatarso-phalangeal joint, and is ' carried down the toe until the level of the web ■ is reached. At this level the knife is carried i circularly round the toe. The result is a racket- ; shaped incision. The incisions are made down | to the bone, and the toe is dissected o^it, keep- ing close to the bone. If it is found necessary • to remove a portion of the metatarsal bone along ' with the toe, the incision must be begun at a ! higher level. I Amputation of the Great and Little Toes. —As the above toes are two of the limbs of the j tripod it is important to leave them if possible. ; If either has to be removed, an attempt should ] be made to preserve the head of the correspond- ' ing metatarsal bone. The relatively large size I of the head of the metatarsal bone should be ; borne in mind. To get a sufiicient covering for this a long flap must be made from the toe to ■ be amputated. ■ Amputation of all the Toes for Crush.— | In such cases each toe must be amputated in- ; dividually. If sufficient skin cannot be obtained i from one toe to cover the head of the corre- : sponding metatarsal bone it must be obtained | from a neighbouring toe. Every endeavour j must be made to maintain the breadth of the I foot. \ Tarso-Metatarsal Amputations.—Hei/, Lis- I franc.—There are two methods of amputating at j this level. One may either disarticulate the \ metatarsal from the tarsal bones, or disarticu- late the four outer metatarsals, and then saw i off the projecting part of the internal cuneiform, j The first method is that of Lisfranc, the second I is that of Hey. The second operation is only j carried out in cases of injury. Disarticulation is preferable in cases of tubercular disease. The i flaps are cut in the same way for both opera- tions, j The following landmarks are to be made out: j On the outer side of the foot, the projection at j the base of the fifth metatarsal bone; on the < inner side of the foot, the joint between the in- j ternal cuneiform bone and the first metatarsal. This point lies about one inch in front of the tubercle of the scaphoid, which can be easily felt on the inner side of the foot. Beginning at one point the knife is carried along the border | of the foot to the base of the toes, from there ; obliquely across the sole of the foot just behind , the webs of the toes, and then along the other ■ border of the foot, thus marking out a long I plantar flap. The two points are joined by an j incision on the dorsum which is slightly curved forwards. The joints are opened into on the dorsal aspect, and after disarticulation the bones are dissected off the plantar flap. The great difficulty in disarticulating is the ■ division of the strong ligaments which bind the