364 BAROTAXIS BarotaxiS. — Tlie effect of unilateral pressure on cells. See Physiology {The Cell). Barrel-shaped Chest. See Chest, Clinical Investigation {Emphysema). Barrenness. See Sterility. Bartholinitis.—Inflammation of the gland of Bartholin or its duct; labial abscess. See Generation, Female Organs {Pelvic Floor); Vulva, Diseases of the. Bartholin's Duct. See Salivary Glands {Anatomy, Sublingual). Baruria. — The condition in which the urine has an unusually high specific gravity. See Urine, Pathological Changes in {Specific Gravity). Bary-.—As a prefix hary- signifies heavy {e.g. baryodmia, a heavy odour), dull {e.g. bary- encephalia, dulness of intellect), imperfect {e.g. baryglossia, thickness of speech), or hoarse {e.g. baryphonia, hoarseness). Basad.—Towards the basal aspect of a thing. Basal.—At the base, e.g. the basal ganglia of the brain. See Brain ; Physiology ; etc. Base.—(1) The lower part of a structure or organ, e.g. base of the brain ; (2) the substance which unites with an acid to produce a salt; and (3) the essential ingredient in a formula. See Prescribing. Basedow's Disease.—Exophthalmic goitre. See Thyroid Gland, Medical ; Uncon- sciousness {Auto-Intoxications). BaS-Fond.—The floor or base of the bladder. Basi".—As a prefix hasi- signifies " forming or belonging to the base," e.g. basi-occiput, basi- sphenoid, basi-branchial, etc. Basic Mening^itiS. See Meningitis, Tuberculous and Pcjsterior Basic. Basidiomycetes and Basi- dium. See Micro-Organisms {Ilyphomycetes or Moulds). Basi lar.—Belonging to the base, e.g. basilar artery {see Brain, Physiology of), basilar mem- brane {see Physiology, The Senses, Internal Ear). Basi lysis.—The operative procedure (in embryulcia) of breaking up the base of the foetal skull in order to comminate the head, and so allow it to be drawn through a contracted pelvis {see Labour, Operations). The instru- ment invented by Prof. A. R. Simpson for performing this operation is named the Basilyst, and a modification of it, providing a means of extracting the child, is the Basilyst-Tractor. Basiotribe. — An obstetric instrument introduced by Tarnier to play the same part as the basilyst {q.v.), but provided with two crush- ing and extracting blades as well as with a perforator. See Labour, Operations {Ernbry- otomy). BaSOphile.—Staining readily with basic stains, such as methylene blue, e.g. leucocytes. See Physiology {Tlie Blood). Basophilia: Basophile Deg^en- eration.—in severe anffimia staining with methylene blue sometimes shows a peculiar granular condition of some of the red cells. The body of the aftected corpuscle is stippled or dotted over with minute deep blue granules, either uniformly or in localised patches. Some- times only half a dozen of these granules may be present; in other cases the cell appears full of them. This granular basophilia of the red corpuscles may occur in any bad form of antemia ; it is particularly well marked in lead poisoning. In all probability the granules are the results of nuclear degeneration. BaSOphobia.—A morbid fear of not being aljle to walk. Bassini's Operation. See Hernia {Radical Cure). Bastard.—Spurious; used in connection with morljid states which somewhat resemble, but are not identical with, certain diseases, e.g. bastard typhoid. See Tropics, the Unclassed Fevers of the. Bath. See Balneology {Great Britain); Mineral Waters {Thermal). Bathmotropic influence.-Ac cording to Engelmann the influence exerted on the heart by the inhibitory and accelerator nerves may be described under four heads: chronotropnc, affecting the rate of contraction; bathmotropic, affecting the irritability of the muscular tissue; dromotropic, affecting its con- ductivity ; and inotropic, affecting the force of the contractions. Each may be positive or negative. Baths. See Balneology. See also Appe- tite ; Asphyxia; Asthma {Treatment of Par- oxysm); Cholera, Epidemic {Collapse, Treatment of ); Electricity ; Hydropathy ; Lungs, Vas- cular Disorders {Oedema of the Lungs); Nur- sery Hygiene ; Puerperium, Physiology ; PuERPERiUM, Pathology {Septicmmia); Scarlet Fever {Treatment) ; Sewage and Drainage {Lavatories and Baths); Typhoid Fever {Treat- ment, Hyperpyrexia). Batoidea.—The "Sting Rays" are fish belonging to the Batoidea ; they inflict injuries by means of their barbed spines. See Snake- Bites and Poisonous Fishes. Batomania.—The impulse to throw one's self down from a high place. Batophobia is the morbid fear of high places. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms.