BONE, DISEASES OF 440 bone," may be really of this nature, with a sequestrum embedded in the interior of the bone. Clinically it is characterised by the develop- ment, without any apparent cause, of pain and swelling involving a considerable extent of the femur or tibia of an adult. The pain varies in intensity; it may be continuous or remittent. There is tenderness on pressure. The shaft of the bone is obviously increased in girth, chiefly because it is surrounded by a new case of bone derived from the periosteum. It is not so defined as the swelling in sarcoma, nor does it ever assume the " leg of mutton " shape charac- teristic of the latter. It resembles sarcoma very closely, however, and, being also liable to spon- taneous fracture, the resemblance may be very close. Cases have been recorded affecting the femur of young subjects, in which the bone has presented an abrupt curvature or bend. The general health is little affected, unless from pain, and pyrexia is only slight and very occasional. The peculiarities of this form of necrosis, apart from the absence of suppuration, are its extreme chronicity, the incomplete distinction between the dead and the living, the length of time required for the separation of the seques- trum, the absence of any cloaca in the external case of new bone, the formation of new bone both outside and inside in the case of tubular sequestra representing the original shaft. Many of these peculiarities are illustrated in tuberculous and syphilitic necrosis. They are to be ascribed partly, no doubt, to the fact that the disease is practically confined to the bones of adults, with their peculiarities of structural arrangement and blood-supply, but chiefly to the very attenuated form of the infecting virus giving rise to it, the virus in this respect resembling that of tubercle or syphilis. The Diagnosis from sarcoma has been referred to in describing the clinical features. Further points in favour of the inflammatory lesions are the relief of pain by resting in bed with the limb elevated, the absence of dilated veins underneath the skin, and the more uniform, hard, incompressible nature of the swelling. The X-rays may reveal the presence of the sequestrum. The diagnosis from syphilis will rest largely on the history of the patient and on the eflPect of treatment. The diagnosis from tuberculous disease of the bone is so difficult that, as a rule, it will only be made on exploring the bone and on examining the diseased tissues microscopically or bacterio- logically. The Treatment, in most of the recorded cases, has consisted in amputation of the limb. It may be possible, however, to attempt the re- moval of the sequestrum on the usual lines. The symptoms will be relieved in any case by trephining the bone. II. Osteomyelitis and Periostitis due to Pyogenic Infections other than Staphylococci It has been assumed that the majority, including all the typical forms of osteomyelitis and periostitis, are the result of infection with the Staphylococcus aureus. Infection with other organisms is exceptional, and the resulting diseases resemble very closely those due to staphylococci. Every micro - organism with pyogenic properties may cause osteomyelitis. Staphylococcus albus.—For the experimental production of osteomyelitis with the white staphylococcus, a larger dose is required than of the yellow variety, and the pus is whiter. Clinically the general opinion appears to be that the disease is milder and less likely to be followed by necrosis. The citreus appears to be intermediate between the aureus and the albus. Streptococcus pyogenes is rarely met with as a piu-e infection. It has been especially met with during infancy, and in the newly born, where the mother suff'ered from erysipelas or other infection. The onset of the illness may be very acute, but if there be no general septicsemia, the high fever subsides in a few days, when the pus forms. Joint lesions are more common than those in the bones. In the latter, as compared with staphylococcus osteomyelitis, the pains are less severe; suppuration is earliei', more diffuse and abundant; the skin may be red, as in erysipelas, and the glands may be enlarged. Necrosis and separation of epiphyses are less frequent and less extensive. The pus is not so thick nor is it of a greenish colour. Pneumococcus.—Although medullary infection with pneumococci was first identified in associa- tion with pneumonia, it has been met with apart from pneumonia and from meningitis, especially in the earlier years of childhood. Infection is supposed to enter through the lung. It is relatively benign, for although the general symptoms may be grave to start with, the local lesions are less severe, as if the virulence of the infection were soon exhausted. Joint lesions are fully more common than those in the bones. The latter have been met with in relation to simple fractures. Incision of the purulent collec- tion in relation to the bone is usually sufficient, as there is little tendency to the formation of sequestra. Some slight thickening of the bone or a few adhesions in the adjacent joint may remain, otherwise recovery is complete. The Typhoid Bacillus. — Suppuration in connection with the bones during or after typhoid fever has only been differentiated since bacterio- logical investigation has shown which lesions are due to the typhoid bacillus, and which are due to infection by other organisms, e.g. the Bacillus coli, the Staphylococcus aureus. The occurrence of mixed infections, and of infections by other organisms than the typhoid bacillus, is sufficiently accounted for by the ready means of entrance