BRAIN, SURCIERY OF 504 not necessarily correspond exactly with definite anatomical convolutions. It should be under- stood that the representation of any set of muscles, e.g. of the muscles of the thumb, is not strictly confined to the area allotted to it, but is only centred or focussed in the area, and spreads into other surrounding parts of the brain, fading gradually away as you leave the focus area. This explains the fact, that if the area corre- sponding to any set of muscles have been de- stroyed hy disease or removed by operation, and paralysis of these muscles thereby caused, it is possible for the functions of the removed area to be gradually taken up, more or less completely, by surrounding parts of the brain, and power to be restored. The following are the areas of the brain with which the surgeon is chiefly concerned :— (1) The sensorimotor or Rolandic area; (2) the areas for speech; (3) the area for sight; (4) the area for hearing ; (5) the area for smell and taste. The position and functions of these various centres have already been indicated (p. 464). Cerebro-ckanial Topography.—It is neces- sary to ascertain the relation of the various centres on the cortex to definite points on the surface of the skull, so that the surgeon may be able to accurately expose any such centre with the trephine. As those parts of the cortex of which the functions are hitherto best known, lie for the most part in close relation to two important fissures, viz. those of Rolando and Sylvius, it will be sufficient for our purpose if we indicate a simple plan for locating these fissures, and one or two other points of the brain, in their relation to the skull surface. Fissure of Rolando.—Lay down a line from the glabella (G) to the external occipital pro- tuberance (0). Bisect this line at M, and take a point (R) half an inch behind its middle point. This corresponds to the upper end of the fissure of Rolando. Draw a line 3f inches long, downwards and forwards, at an angle of 67"5° with the line GO to the point F. The line P''R will coin- cide almost exactly with the fissure of Rolando; the fissure, however, in its lower third turns a little back- ward and becomes slightly more ver- tical than a straight line be- tween R and F. The angle of 67'5° can easily be obtained by folding a square sheet of paper upon itself so as to make a triangle; this gives you the angle of Fio. 2.—Diagram to show Chiene's method fordetermining the position of the anterior branch of the middle meningeal artery. 45° at the corner by halving the right angle of 90°. By folding the paper again upon itself in the same direction so as to halve the angle of 45°, you now obtain the right angle of the square subdivided into four angles of 22'5° each. Three of these angles taken together make up the required angle of 67"5°, and by applying the paper to the skull in the requisite manner, you can, with sufficient accuracy, determine the line of the Rolandic fissure (Chiene). Horsley's metal cyrtometer, composed of two strips of flexible metal fixed to one another at an angle of 67°, may be used for the same purpose, but it is unnecessary. The Fissure of Sylvius.—Draw a base line (AB) from the lower margin of the orbit back to the auditory meatus. Then draw a second line parallel to and above AB, from the external angular process of the frontal bone backwards \\ inches. Take a point S \ inch above the posterior extremity of this line, and this will correspond to the anterior extremity of the fissure of Sylvius. Next draw a line from S to a point L, | inch directly below the summit of the parietal emi- nence ; the line SL will lie over the fissure of Sylvius; the short anterior limb of the fissure runs upwards, almost vertically, for about 1 inch, from a point f inch from the anterior extremity of the line SL. The fissure of Sylvius is about 4 inches long. If the line SL be produced backwards to the middle line of the head so as to meet the line GO, the point of their junction will indicate the position of the parieto-occipital fissure. This is useful in determining the anterior margin of the occipital lobe in cases of interference with vision due to brain lesion. The tentorium cerebelli is attached to the skull along aline drawn from a point 1^ inches behind and I inch above the external auditory meatus to a point \ inch above the external occipital protuberance. The left hemisphere, being in right-handed persons more developed than the right hemi- sphere, is often found to extend beyond the middle line of the head as drawn from the glabella to the occipital protuberance. To find the anterior branch of the middle meningeal artery (a vessel from which intra- cranial haemorrhage is very common) draw a first line from the external angular process of the frontal to the parieto-occipital fissure. Draw a second line from the external angular process to the root of the zygoma immediately above and in front of the external auditory meatus. Bisect this line, and from its centre draw a third line to the mid-point between the glabella and inion. At the point where this third line inter- sects the first line will be found the vessel in question (Chiene). Operative Measures.—While the description of some of the details of operative procedure in