485 BRAIN, AFFECTIONS OF BLOOD-VESSELS rupture of a small vessel, especially if it occurs, as it usually does, associated with a high-tension pulse and with diseased vessels, may be one of extreme precariousness. It is difficult to say that the hfemorrhage will not rapidly enlarge, and give rise to a condition which immediately threatens the patient's life. Anything, therefoi-e, in the way of treatment must be both prompt and energetic, and of course it is evident that the first thing to do is to put the patient imder conditions in which the least possible voluntary effort will be necessary. Besides putting the patient in bed, it is often desirable to put him, not in the recumbent, but in a semi-recumbent posture, in order as far as possible by position to minimise the effect of the blood-pressure. If the pulse be high-tension and bounding in character, it is evident that something must be done to lower this tension. In the old days, no doubt, such a condition would have been treated by energetic bleeding, and it is almost a pity that this treatment has fallen so much into disuse, because by it we can probably effect more quickly than by any other means the sudden and profound lowering of arterial pressure which is really desirable. Should, however, bleeding not be possible, one must have recourse to more gentle methods with a similar object, namely, purging, especially by means of saline cathartics. Thus, if two or three grains of calomel are administered at once, if a castor oil and turpentine enema be given, and if, after the lapse of some hours the bowels have not acted, another enema be also given, we shall probably have such an effect upon the vascular system as will result in very considerable lowering of blood-pressure, and the consequent establish- ment of conditions which tend to stop any hfemorrhage that is taking place. It is also desirable to get the skin and kidneys to act freely by measures which will at once suggest themselves, and it is essential to use every other means to reduce the blood-pressure as has already l)een pointed out. The application of cold to the head may not be very effective, but if the patient have even a slight degree of conscious- ness it is often comforting. Suppose that the patient has survived the initial stage, and has regained consciousness, we then probably have to deal with very severe head pains; and there is little doubt that svich head pains are very much relieved by some form of counter-irritation, and the best, in the writer's experience, is by means of leeches applied over the temple or behind the ear. If leeches be, for any reason, inadmissible, then blistering over similar regions may possibly be followed by a similar effect. With regard to food, care must be taken that the patient receives a certain amount of nourish- ment in the most bland and easily digested form possible, and yet as little fluid as he can do with. Milk and milk foods are undoubtedly the best, both from their readily digestible nature and from their being less liable to contain ingredients that might, by their toxic character, raise the blood-pressure. A milk diet should always be maintained for at least several days after the acute stage is over. Such measures are, of course, intended to counteract the conditions which have given rise to hemorrhage ; and when one is satisfied that the hajmorrhage has ceased, the condition is still somewhat precarious, and must remain so for several days, because a vessel which has given way so recently is not likely to be very firmly sealed. So that the patient must be kept quiet, his diet must be bland and nutri- tious, and the bowels, the kidneys, and the skin must be kept acting freely. In Cases of Emholism.—As regards the con- dition occurring when embolism has taken place, what has been said as regards general principles in reference to hsemorrhage must of course hold true in reference to embolism. The same kind of diet is necessary, rest is just as essential, because the dangers that have to be avoided are any further strain upon the heart—already probably weak—and the setting free of another embolus. Of course the cardiac condition must be treated, if treatment be necessary. If there be dilatation, for example, this will be treated secundum artem. If weakness and irregidarity, the ordinary heart tonics should be employed. In Cases of Thrombosis. — In thrombosis we have an entirely different condition to deal with. Here the symptoms depend upon clot- ting occurring in an artery, the result either of a weak blood-stream occurring in diseased arteiies, or of a peculiar condition of the blood rendering it prone to clot; or of a combination of those two. It is evident that rest in such a condition is also necessary, in order especially to prevent too great demands upon a heart already perhaps overstrained. In reference to other points, however, an entirely different mode of treatment must be adopted from that at all events pursued in a case of hajmorrhage. The patient must be stimulated, best probably by means of fluids. Often strychnia is necessary, and that can most efficaciously and with the best effect be administered hypodermically. It is well to avoid anything like too free purgation, because of the effect in favouring coagulation which might ensue. Yet it is desirable, un- doubtedly, that the bowels should be actively opened in order that the blood may be changed in its character, and so, perhaps, the tendency to clot got rid of. What has been said about food holds good in thrombosis also. It must be bland, nutritious, and not too abundant, and, as we have already hinted, in this condition it probably ought to be chiefly fluid. If the thrombosis or stoppage have occurred in a vessel which is the seat of damage by syphilitic disease, the treatment of course must be most energetic. And although the general