428 BONE, DISEASES OF the conditions for the development of the cocci are most unfavourable, or by assuming the possibility of infection by an attenuated virus. 1. Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis and Periostitis Definition. Bones affected. Influence of age, sex, and constitution. Pathological anatomy. 1. In the Long Bones during the Period of Growth. 2. In the Long Bones of Young Infants. 3. In the Long Bones of Adults. 4. In the Short and Flat Bones. Clinical features. 1. In Average or Typical Cases. 2. In Graver Cases allied to Pyaemia. SeqU£l(e. Diagnosis. Prognosis. Treatment. Acute Siippurative Osteomyelitis and Perios- titis.—Synonyms—Typhus of the extremities, acute necrosis, juxta-epiphysial osteomyelitis, acute epiphysitis. Definition.—A staphylococcal inflammation of the marrow and periosteum in certain pre- disposed parts of the skeleton, observed in child- hood and youth, often grave in character; attended with the formation of pus, with damage to the bone-forming tissues, and fre- quently resulting in death of bone. Bones affected.—The long tuTiular bones take precedence in the following order of frequency : —1. Lower end of femur. Either end of tibia. 2. Upper end of humerus. 3. Ulna, fibula, radius. 4. Metatarsals, metacarpals, phalanges. The other bones of the skeleton are occasionally affected. Liability according to age, sex, and constitution. Age.—10-14 and 13-17 have been stated as 1 iiaxima; the disease is very rare after 20, when the skeleton has reached maturity. Sex.—Males are alTected more often than females in the proportion of 3 to 1, because they are more exposed to injury, to violent exertion, to strain, and to cold. Constitution.-—The disease does not necessarily pick out the weakly, but may affect the most robust, whether from country or town. It is not un- common after other infective dis- eases, e.g. scarlet, small-pox, typhoid. During the period of growth, primary in- flammation in the marrow predominates ; perios- • titis is usually a secondary lesion. This fact must be emphasised from the outset, because the clinical features are misleading, inasmuch as the periosteal element often appears in the fore- ground. As a rule the disease commences and is most intense in the ossifying junction at one end of the bone. Barely it commences at both ends simultaneously (bipolar osteomyelitis), or it may commence at one end and spread to the other. Osteomyelitis in the marrow of the epiphysis itself (acute epiphysitis) is very rare as an independent lesion. Pathological Anatomy.—The changes observed vary with the type of bone affected, whether a long bone or a flat one, and with its age, whether before or after maturity. 1. In A Long Bone during the period op growth the changes in the tissues affected are those of intense inflammation, gradually merg- ing into those of suppuration. The later appearances partake rather of purulent in- filtration than of actual collections of pus. Where the process is most advanced, i.e. at the ossifying junction, there will be evidences of absorption, rarefaction, and disappearance of the framework of the bone, and of the semi- calcified tissue in process of conversion into bone, enlargement of the marrow spaces and of the Haversian canals, the formation of visible tunnels and of spaces, occupied Ijy greenish yellow pus with corresponding destruction of the soft tissues, and therefore of the bone- forming elements. The formation of spaces and tunnels by rarefaction and absorption is always most marked in the region of the ossifying junction, the larger spaces are near the epiphy- sial disc itself, and they often communicate with the exterior through holes in the cortex. The blood-vessels within the marrow undergo obliteration to a considerable extent, and the veins become the seat of thi'ombosis and of infective phlebitis. In addition to the changes in the framework of the bone, to which reference has been made, there frequently occurs the visible death or necrosis of considei'able portions, or of the entire bone, in the region affected. The death of the bone is not to be attributed to vascular obliteration or to tension, or to deprivation or destruction of its soft parts, but to the poisonous action of the bacterial products in the pus, with which it is in contact. Doubtless the vitality of the bone is seriously impaired by the vascular and tissue changes which attend the process, but the actual death is the result of intoxication. It is no longer held that bone, bared of its periosteum, or deprived of its marrow, necessarily dies. The occurrence of aseptic necrosis is no longer admitted. This is borne out by the effects of the Listerian treat- ment of osteomyelitis, it being found that necrosis is a much less frequent result than in older days, in which septic infection was allowed to take place from without, through the in- cision, or through sinuses opening on the surface. To return to the inflammation and sup-