238 APHASIA his finger or a pencil; in other words, he is able, in some cases, to ascertain the meaning of written speech characters by the aid of the kinsesthetic impressions which attend the muscular movements involved in copying the written characters (letters and words) which he cannot read in the ordinary way (by vision). In cases of subcortical word-blindness internal speech and thought are not impaired (since the action of the auditory and motor-vocal speech centres is not deranged). Though the patient is unable to read (name) the individual letters by the sense of sight, he retains the mental conception of the form and shape of the letters, and he may be able to descrilje their form in words ; he is able to write from dictation, and he may be able to write on a typewriter, but he is unable to intelligently copy, i.e. to transcribe printed into written characters, though he is usually able to mechanically copy printed or written speech characters, i.e. stroke for stroke, as he would copy a map or a drawing. The lesion being situated far back {i.e. in the white matter below the angular gyrus or in the anterior end of the occipital lobe) there is not usually any motor paralysis, though right- sided hemiplegia may be temporarily present immediately after the onset. There may, how- ever be some hemianajsthesia on the opposite 1 (right) side. Hemianopsia and hemiachroma- topsia are usually (always) present. I The clinical characteristics of cortical {true or pictorial) ivord-blindness.—In cortical word-blind- j ness the patient is not only unable to understand j written language and to read aloud, but he is also unable to write spontaneously and (with rare exceptions) to write from dictation. He can mechanically copy written or printed speech characters, i.e. as he would copy a drawing or a map (literally, stroke for stroke, line for line) : but he cannot intelligently copy written speech characters; he is unable to transpose type- written characters into manuscript, and vice versa. He cannot arrange separate printed (block) letters in the form of words, and he j cannot write on the typewriter. He has lost the mental conception of the form and shape of [ the letters, and of the manner in which the individual letters must be arranged and grouped for the formation of written words. In cases of cortical word-blindness there is usually (1 always) some derangement, latent or obvious, in the understanding of spoken language, and often some derangement of spoken speech, usually paraphasia. The ability to spell is usually impaired, at all events in some degree. Eight hemiplegia is usually absent, and right- sided hemiantesthesia is less frequently present than in the subcortical variety. The Chief Characters of Agraphia (Motor- Writing Aphasia, or Graphic Aphasia, as it is sometimes termed).—There is much difference of opinion as to the existence of a separate writing- speech centi'e, and as to the nature of agraphia. Two views are held, viz.—(1) That a separate and distinct writing speech centre exists ; according to this view agraphia is aphasia of the hand. (2) That a separate writing speech centre does not exist, and is in fact unnecessarj'; according to this view the writing centre is merely a part of the ordinary psycho - motor centre for the upper extremity (hand, wrist, etc.). The space at my disposal in this article does not permit me to discuss the question. The balance of evidence seems to me to be in favour of the latter view. In some cases agraphia is associated with sensory aphasia, more especially with word- blindness, and in others with motor-vocal aphasia. Up to the present time no well- authenticated case has been recorded in which isolated agraphia—agraphia, and nothing but agraphia—has resulted from a localised lesion in any part of the motor area of the cortex. In most cases in which agraphia is associated with cortical motor-vocal aphasia the agraphia is, roughly speaking, proportionate to the vocal speech defect; but tliis is not invariably the case. In those cases in which the agraphia is com- plete and unassociated with motor-vocal aphasia word-blindness is almost always, but not neces- sarily always, present; for a lesion which de- stroys the conducting fibres which pass from the visual speech centre to the motor-writing centre, but which does not involve either of these centres, may, I believe, produce agraphia. In those cases in which the agraphia is associ- ated with cortical word-blindness the agraphia is usually (1 always) complete. The patient can neither write spontaneously nor from dictation, he is unable to copy intelligently (to transcribe type into manuscript), to write on the type- writer, and, in most cases, to write with his left hand.i In those cases in which the agrapJda is associ- ated with subcortical word-blindness the agraphia is incomplete. Although the patient cannot intelligently copy or transcribe type into manu- script, he is able to write spontaneously (though after a short interval he is \inable to read what he has just written), and he may be able to write from dictation. Complete destruction of the auditory speech centre, or rather, it would be more correct to say, of both auditory speech centres, ought theoretically to produce inability to write spon- taneously and from dictation (since there seems good reason to believe that in spontaneous writ- ing the auditory speech centre is first stimulated —in other words, since the idea of the word appears first to take concrete shape in the auditory speech centre). But it is probable that in some persons who are accustomed to read and write much, complete destruction of the auditory speech centre does not produce ^ " Mirror - writiug" will be treated under its own heading.