175 ANEURYSM be room even for an elastic cord above it. It must then be combined with digital or instru- mental compression above the sac. The sac should not be left quite imsupported, as it may fill even to rupture from the surrounding parts. The bandage should be kept on for one and a half hours, and not longer. It causes much pain, necessitating morphia freely or light ana;s- thesia. The tirtery above the sac must be con- trolled l)efore the ruliber bandage is removed, and either light digital or instrumental com- pression, to prevent disturbance of young clot, kept up for two or three days. On removing the bandage the aneurysm may be cured, m statu quo ante, or in any intermediary stage. According to (jould it succeeds in about fifty per cent of the cases. A second or even a third attempt may be successful; but G7"6 of all successful cases occurred after one application. The mode of cure is l)y rapid coagulation in sac and artery. Causes of failure. — Too brief duration of stasis; a fusiform or small saccular sac with wide mouth and fairly normal endothelium ; too early exposure of the fresh clot to the heart force. Advantages of Reid's method : it acts quickly if at all; it is widely applicable; it causes no wound ; it interferes with no subsequent treat- ment should it fail. Objections : It may so raise the blood-pressure as to injure some morbid central vessel or internal aneurysm. It may cause gangrene: this occurred only twice in sixty-five cases, and in neither did the bandage seem to be wholly responsible. It may rupture the sac; this should be supported by the bandage. Rupture occurred only once in seventy-two cases. In another case the sac was nuich larger. In spite of these apparently good results in recorded cases, the method is regarded with distrust and is not now much employed. Amputation at the shoulder has been practised a few times in subclavian aneurysm, with the idea of diminishing the flow of blood through the subclavian by removing the part to be supplied. Only partial success in one case has been recorded. Needling.—In 1890, Macewen advocated the treatment of aneurysm by the aseptic intro- duction into the sac of fine needles which were to act by gently and superficially scratching and irritating the sac-wall. One or more long, fine pins are to be passed in until they just touch, and no more, the opposite wall. Here they are gently moved so as to effect the scratching, or the pulsations are allowed to do so ; after ten minutes or so they are shifted to another spot and a considerable area is worked over methodi- cally. The needles are introduced at difi'erent points to reach the whole inner surface. They are left in some hours, but never longer than forty-eight. Several pins should not be intro- duced close together lest the wall be too much weakened. Specially thin points in the sac should first be attacked. Whilst the pins are in they are surrounded with wet gauze, and an antiseptic dressing is kept on for some days after the operation. As a rule distinct thickening of the wall where scratched is recognisable early. The sittings are repeated at suitable intervals. Macewen's object in this treatment is to in- duce the fornuilation of white thrombi over the area scratched, and he endeavours thus to act upon the whole interior of the sac. He quoted four cases in illustration of the method, and it would seem that needling is worthy of a more extended trial than it has received. ELECTROLYi^is has sometimes seemed to retard the progress of an aneurysm; those who have used it largely claim decided improvement in over half the cases treated—chiefly aortic aneu- rysms. But it has been used successfully also in combination with compression to induce coagula- tion in external aneurysms. Around the positive pole a fairly firm clot forms; around the negative a loose mass, frothy from liberated hydrogen and useless as a means of consolidating tlie sac. Much difference of opinion exists as to how electricity may be used to the greatest advantage in these cases {see " Electrolysis,"). Embolism would seem a likely danger, but is not known to have occurred. Sloughing round the punctures, oozing and hajmorrhage, infection and cellulitis, have been pretty common. Introduction of Foreign Bodies into the Sac —This was suggested and carried out by the late C. H. Moore in a case of thoracic and other- wise inoperable aneurysm. Since tlien wire of various kinds, horsehair, fishing-gut, and watch- springs have been introduced through a fine cannula passed in obliquely through a well- covered portion of the sac. Considerable loss of blood ma}- occur through the cannula. Every care to preserve asepsis must be employed. The wire has generally been pushed in until some resistance has been met with, then cut, and the end completely sunk. The success of the method has been so slight that it is doubtful whether it should be practised. Manipulation.—Sir William Fergusson prac- tised this in two cases with the idea of squeezing fibrin from the sac-wall into the distal orifice of subclavian aneurysm. Having emptied the sac by thumb-pressure he squeezed and rubbed its side somewhat. In the first case giddiness resulted, and, after one or two repetitions of the manipulation, pulsation ceased and the sac shrank ; but it burst seven months later. In the second case the distal arter}- was obliterated, and manipulation was followed by hemiplegia : but the sac shrank gradually, and the man was alive and well two years after. Man}' aneurysms have become solid, either at once or within a da}' or two after handling, sometimes from embolism, sometimes probably from some in- flanunatory change in the sac. Embolism is, however, a dangerous complication, and the method has been very little used.