BLINDNESS 408 fenders, ropes, sacks, chair-caning, and wood- chopping ; and for girls, hand and machine sewing, netting, etc. In ;a workshop where the bhnd do not have to dispose of the goods them- selves, 15s. to £1 a week can usually be earned at these trades, but most institutions find it difficult to sell sufficient to give employment to all the blind seeking it. Of all occupations open to the blind, music has hitherto offered the best prospects, and as tuners, teachers, organists, etc., many blind people make a good living. In 1884, fifty-nine old pupils of the Royal Normal College and Academy of Music for the Blind, London, made a return of their earnings, which averaged over £100 per annum. Type-writing seems likely to furnish remimera- tive employment to a number of blind people. The phonograph is being successfidly employed in lieu of shorthand notes. Blind Spot.—Where the optic nerve enters the eye the retina cannot be stimulated by light, because there are no end organs there ; in this way the blind spot is produced. See Physiology (Senses, Vision). Bliss's Cure.—A remedy for asthma, believed to consist of leaves of Datura Stra- monium and D. Tatula, of Indian Hemp, of Lobelia, and of Nitre. See Asthma. Blistering^ Fluid. »S'ee Cantharides. Blond lot Rays. See also'N Uayh.—In 1903 Blondlot of Nancy discovered certain rays originating in the light of the Nernst electric lamp, in steel under tension, and in muscle and nerve in action; they are detected by their effect on the fluorescence of a fluorescent screen ; Blondlot named them N rays (after Nancy, in the University of which he was working); they intensify the luminosity of the fluorescent screen, but other rays may be associated with them which diminish it, and while the former are called N rays the latter are named Nj rays. Unlike the Rontgen rays the N rays can be polarised, refracted, and reflected; they pass through glass, salt solutions, etc., but not through pure water. It is said that the eye itself is a source of these rays. Blood, Physiolog^y and Clinical investigration of. General Introduction .... 408 Cellular Constituents . . . .410 Histological Characters Chemical Composition Developmental History Physiological and Pathological Variations Plasma AND Serum . .... 416 Coynposition Nature of Coagulation Methods of Clinical Examination . .416 A. General . . . . . .416 Estimation of Total Quantity, Sp, Gra- vity, Alkalinity Hcemoglobin Percentage Enumeration of Corpuscles B. Special 420 Unstained and Stained Films Micro-chemical—Glycogen, Glucose, etc. Spectroscopic, Bacteriological See also Anaemia ; Anaemia, Pernicious ; An- esthesia, Chloroform {Inhalation of Blood); Ascites [Recognition of Cause, Leucocytosis); Balneology {General Balneo-therapeutics, Dis- orders of the Blood); Basophilia ; Bi^ckwater Fever {Blood); Burns and Scalds {Pathology); Chlorosis ; Climate {Effect on the Blood); Diabetes Mellitus {The Blood); Enzymes {Fibrin Ferment, etc.); Fjeces {Blood); Filari- ASis {Examination of Blood); Glycogen Re- action ; Gout {The Blood); Hematemesis ; H/ematuria ; Hyematoporphyrinuria ; Hemo- globinometer; H^emoglobinuria; Hemophilia; Haemoptysis; H/emorrhage; Heart, Congenital Malformations op {Blood,); Immunity {Leuco- cytes) ; Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology ; Malaria {Parasite in Blood); Medicine, History of {Discovery of Circula- tion) ; Medicine Forensic {Blood Stains) ; MelyENa; Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal; Meteorology {High Altitudes); New-born l^- YA-^T {Pathology, Hemorrhages); Opsonic Index; Physiology {Blood, Circulation); Pigments of the Body ; Post-mortem Methods {Blood Serum Media); Pregnancy, Physiology ; Pregnancy, Affections and Complications ; Purpura ; Scurvy, Infantile ; Spleen, Medical Affec- tions of ; Temperature {Changes in the Blood); Toxicology {Carbon Monoxide); Typhoid Fever {Blood); Urine, Pathological Changes {Blood Casts, Freezing Point). General Characters.—The blood may, in the first place, be regarded as a nutritive fluid for all organs which it supplies. The more highly developed the organism is, so much the more does each individual tissue and organ depend upon a sufficient and suitable supply of this fluid. One of the most characteristic properties which it possesses is its remarkable constancy of composition, considering the large amount of organic and inorganic substances that is being added to it from the side of the alimentary canal. This is brought about by a series of agencies, the intimate working of which we can in most cases only dimly surmise. They may be grouped together under the heading " selec- tive affinity of tissues for certain substances circulating in the blood." In order that the muscles may do their work properly, they require a sufficiency of potential energy in the form of oxidisable carbohydrate, glucose. If this sugar be not withdrawn and broken down by the contractile tissues, then it becomes