214 ANTHRAX very susceptible animals, such as very young guinea-pigs, the bacillus may be made to regain its virulence.) Pasteur, who discovered these facts, utilised them in the elaboration of his celebrated method of vaccination against anthrax. Asporogenous bacilli may also be produced under other con- ditions. Chamberland and Roux obtained this result by the addition to the culture media of 1 part of bichromate of potash to 1200 or 1-500 parts of culture medium; 1 part of carbolic acid to 800 parts of medium. Behring found that the addition of rosolic acid or of hydro- chloric acid had the same effect, and Lehmann observed a similar alteration in old cultures. Germicidal Action of various Agents. — (a) Heat.—Davaine thought that non-sporing bacilli in blood are killed by an exposure to a tempera- ture of 50° C. for twenty minutes. According to the same observer, blood much diluted with water is sterilised in the same time by exposure to 48° C. only. A temperature of 60" C. is generally admitted to be rapidly fatal to the non-sporing bacillus in the moist state. Fully-formed spores are much more resistant. They may resist a moist heat of 95° C. for about ten minutes, of 100° C. for three or four minutes. Current saturated steam at 100° C. is, how- ever, capable of killing them much more rapidly, in the absence of air. Thus Delepine found that these spores are killed under these condi- tions in less than thirty-five seconds; in a mixture of air and water vapour at the same temperature, an exposure of about thirty minutes' duration is necessary to obtain the same results. In dry air, spores generally resist the same temperature for eight hours, and often longer (Delepine and Sidebothara). Dry spores resist a temperature of 120° C. for several hours; and a temperature of 140° C. is not very rapidly lethal to them. Cold has very little effect on either spores or bacilli. Frisch has shown that blood contain- ing bacilli can be exposed to a temperature of - 110° C. for one hour without being disinfected. (6) Desiccation.—Desiccation by simple ex- posure to air has practically no effect on spores, but non-sporing bacilli ai'e killed by drying in twelve to thirty hours (Koch). The writer has found that spores kept in air absolutely dry did not retain their vitality as long as spores kept in air containing some trace of moisture. (c) Sunlight.—Sunlight is fatal to the bacilli more rapidly when they are moist than when they are dry. Germinating spores held in a fluid are killed by sunlight in two or three hours; non-germinating spores may survive an exposure of ten hours (Arloing, Straus). {d) Chemical Disinfectants. — Chemical sub- stances. Non-sporing bacilli can easily be killed by the usual bactericidal chemical substances. Spores resist a much longer time; they can, however, be killed in a few minutes by the action of a -^^^ solution of perchloride of mercury, or of a solution of chlorinated lime. The dry spores are much more slowly affected by gaseous disinfectants, of which dry formaldehyde is perhaps the best. (e) Putrefaction.—Putrefaction has very little effect upon the spores, but non-sporing bacilli rapidly die when in the midst of putrefying organic substances to which air has no access. This explains their rapid disappearance from cai'cases which have not been opened. Burying at a great depth is beneficial in preventing the free access of air. Rapid cooling, by preventing putrefactive changes, favours the survival of the bacillus. The body of large animals is, however, slow to cool, and the temperature of the central parts is kept up by the fermentative changes induced by the intestinal bacteria. Alterations of Virulence.—Methods used for producing Attejiuation.—When the bacilhis is cultivated in the presence of air at a tempera- ture between 42° and 43° C. for two to three weeks, it loses its virulence for horses, cattle, sheep, rabbits, and guinea-pigs, but it is still virulent for mice. After ten or twelve days the bacillus is still capable of killing guinea-pigs and mice, but produces only a temporary illness in rabbits, sheep, cattle, and horses. This is true only with regard to animals which are not very young; very young animals may succumb after inoculation with bacilli which have lost their virulence for older animals. When the blood of a young guinea-pig which has succumbed to the action of a bacillus non- virulent to an adult guinea-pig, is inoculated to a second guinea-pig slightly older than the first, this second guinea-pig will generally also die of anthrax. By a gradual passage of the bacillus through animals of increasing age, it is possible to cause the bacillus to regain its normal virulence for the adult animal. This method of regulating the virulence of the bacillus anthracis by cultivation was discovered by Pasteur, who based upon it his method of vaccination against anthrax. Other methods of attenuation have been dis- covered. Toussaint found that by rapidly heat- ing anthrax blood for ten minutes at 55° C. the virulence of the bacillus was considerably re- duced ; he even based upon this a method of vaccination which has been further elaborated by Chauveau. Compressed oxygen and light have also analogous effects. Toxic Substances produced hy the Bacillus Anthracis.—The bacillus anthracis owes most of its pathogenic properties to certain toxines. Marmier, in 1895, showed that a toxic sub- stance can be isolated from cultures of the bacillus. The properties of that toxine are different from those of the albumoses, peptones.