335 AUDITORY J^ERVE AND LABYRINTH characteristically in cases of the residua of unilateral suppurative otitis, and tlie hearing of the sympathetically-aiTected ear is frequently improved by treatment of the primarily diseased one, even though no eftect is produced on the hearing of the latter. The treatment indicated is tlie removal of irritating conditions in the first aflected ear. This may mean the adoption of a more thorough antiseptic treatment, the removal of the ossicles, of cholesteatomatous masses, or even the opening of the mastoid cavities. Toxic Paralysis of the Auditory Nerve.— Among the most frequent causes of nerve-deaf- ness is the ingestion of quinine, salicin, or sali- cylates. Much more rarely it may be traced to alcohol, tobacco, or lead, aird it is quite probable that toxins absorbed from the intestines may exercise a similar influence. The only evidence is the presence of the nerve-deafness, and the liistory, which should be inquired into in all obscure cases. Quinine-deafness is generally recovered from if the drug be discontinued, and bromides or hydrobromic acid be -adminis- tered. Lead is sometimes absorbed when used as a hair-dye. Patients, when recommended to remove this cause, seldom return to report the result of following this unpalatable advice. Alcoholic - deafness yields to abstinence and strychnine, but tinnitus is apt to persist long. Nerve - Deafness in Hysteria.—Assuming that motor and sensory disturbances in hysteria are tlie results of self-hypnotisation, then, as the hypnotised patient to whom it is " sug- gested " that she is deaf is deaf, so the subject of hysterical deafness cannot hear. It is a con- dition totally different from shamming, though sometimes associated with it or mistaken for it. It is sometimes unilateral and part of a hemi- aufesthesia, but more often it is "bilateral." It is clinically a nerve-deafness, and the hearing is not necessarily worst for the highest-pitched tones. This peculiarity enabled the writer to suspect a hysterical origin in a very obscure case, in which his provisional diagnosis was only confirmed after several years. The onset is often sudden, as the result of a mental shock, or a slight physical one, and it occasionally occurs in young girls in whom the menses have been rather late in establishing themselves. In some instances it ingrafts itself on a pre-existing middle-ear disease. It often eludes diagnosis, but the general aspect of the case and the presence of some of the usual stigmata of hysteria, such as "globus," hemi - anjBsthesia or hemi-hyper- esthesia, diminished pharyngeal reflex, func- tional aphonia, and narrowing of the field of vision, may lielp materially. Violent remedies are to be avoided for fear of adding " traumatic" hysterical symptoms to those already present. Hypnotism is not always easy to induce in hysterical subjects, and is open to objections. Anti - spasmodic nerve-tonics, good nourishment, general anti- hysterical regimen and encouragement, con- stitute the chief means of treatment, the method of Weir-Mitchell being kept in mind. In retardation of the menses the flow should be encouraged secundum artem. Senile Nerve - Deafness.—After the age of sixty it is natural for the heai'ing-power to decrease. This change is characterised by diminished bone-conduction, positive Rinne, and marked loss of hearing for the upper tones of Galton's whistle. It is important to recognise the condition so as to avoid attempts at in- effectual and possibly injurious treatment, but it is to be remembered that it may be compli- cated by a curable catarrh or other affection. The chief means of help is some form of ear- trumpet, a long flexible one for conversation with one person, a parabolic one for meetings, concerts, sermons, and so forth. Nerve-Deafness arising from Cerebral Disease.—Reference has already been made to the labyrinthine inflammation arising by exten- sion from the inflamed meninges. The nerve- trunk may itself be infiltrated, although its more compact companion, the facial, may escape. It is unquestionable that the auditory nerve may be injuriously afifected by increase of cerebral pressure from any cause. A tumour may cause dulness of hearing, by increasing the intra-cranial tension, or by interfering with the auditory nerve-trimk or the intra-cerebral auditory tract. The chief localising symptoms have been already indicated, and as a rule the deafness is more or less eclipsed by the other symptoms, such as blindness, headache, vomiting, disturb- ances of equilibrium, or of the ocular movements, paralysis of muscles of locomotion, articulation, deglutition, and so forth, which localise the site of the lesion. According to Gradenigo, the chief departvu-e from the normal may be an increased auditory sensibility to galvanism. The sensa- tion of sound is not excited in the normal nerve by a current (closing cathode) of much less than 10 milliamperes, but when the sensibility is increased much weaker currents may suflice. Traumatic Nerve-Deafness.—Injuries to the labyrinth may result directly, as from the intro- duction of pointed bodies through the meatus, or indirectly, as from blows or falls on the head. These may, in slighter cases, induce a concus- sion of the labyrinth, which may completely subside, but in severer cases, with symptoms of fracture of the base of the skull, the osseous capsule of the labyrinth is usually involved, with irreparable destruction of its contents. It is apt to be followed by suppurative inflam- mation. The chief indication for treatment is, in the first instance, the adoption of antiseptic measures for the prevention of infection from without.