ALKALOIDS 106 part, a cai-bon atom replaced by oxygen, but the carbon reattached to the nitrogen atom in the form of methyl. h;c N I H-C I H H 0 I C c 1 H H CH I ICH CH., c /\ C /\ c \/ c \/ CH CH2 CH Morphina (Cj-HigNOg) two hydroxyl radicals in place of two hydrogen atoms, and eight additional atoms of hydrogen, morphina is formed. If a molecule of water be removed, apomorphina results, or, if a methyl radical be joined to the hydroxyl radical shown to the right of the figure, codeina is represented. While thebaina (Cj^HoiNOg), in which a methyl radical is introduced in the place of an atom of hydrogen in morphina, acts antagonistically. Similar substitution of radicals can be effected in the polyammonia alkaloids, of which quiniiia (C2QH24N2O2) and strychnina (C21H22N2O2) are examples of those obtained from plants; hexa- tomic owing to the presence of two atoms of nitrogen ; and the numerous diamines and tria- mines formed in the animal body or by the action of fungi. A striking example of the intimate correlation between chemical constitution and pharmaco- logical action is afforded by many of the alkaloidal bodies. A number of them, although acting in a very different manner when in simple form, exhibit a marked power of paralys- ing motor nerves when their molecular constitu- tion has been altered by the substitution of the radical, CHg (methyl), for an atom of hydrogen. Thus strychnina is a powerful stimulant of the motor ganglia in the anterior cornua of the spinal cord, and is credited with only slight, if any, influence iipon motor nerves; methyl- strychnina is a motor nerve and ganglion depressant. Classification :— 1. Vegetable.—A. Elaborated by the living protoplasm of plant cells. B. Produced by the metabolic processes of lower vege- table forms. 2. Animal.—A. Ptomaines ; actually the pro- ducts of low vegetable forms from dead animal matter. Leucomaines; formed by metabolic processes during life by animal tissues, as creatin, xanthin, etc. B. The alkaloids of vegetable origin belonging to Class 1, A, are those which are made use of in medicine, with a few exceptions, such as, for instance, the obscure alkaloids in cod-liver oil. They may be divided into those which are crystalline and solid—by far the larger group— and those which are liquid, conina, pilocarpina,. nicotina, sparteina, etc. Table of Vegetable Alkaloids A. Solid. Foimula. Name. Morphina, Codeina, Thebaina, Narcotina, Papaverina, Cotarnina, Apomorphina, Atropina, Homatropina, Hyoscyamina, Hyoscina, Duboisina, Daturina, Caft'eina, Strychnina, Brucina, Physostigmina, Gelsemina, Conhydrina, Cocaina, Jaborina, Curarina, Erythrophloeina, Aconitina, Aconina, Isaconitina, Veratrina, Emetina, Quinina, Quinidina, Cinchonina, Cinchonidina, Beberina, Hydrastina, Delphinina, Scoparina, Colchicina, Cornutina, Cj,Hi3(CH3)N03H.,0 C,,H2,N03 C.22H23NO, Ci.HjgNOg Ci^Hj^NO., C17H23NO; C16H21NO3 Ci7H„3N03 do. Cj^H23N03 CsH,oN402H20 C21H22N2O2 CggHogNjO^ c;h;,n302 CgHj.NO Ci^H.^NO, C22H32N,0, C33H,3NO,2 do. C3,H,3NO„ C20H30NO, C,„Ho,N„02 C2oH,;N02 C,oH.,,N20 c;6h:,n20, ChHj^NO, C21H22OJ1, C17H13NO3 B. Liquid. Name. Conina, Methyl-conina, Pilocarpina, Nicotina, Sparteina, Lobelina, Lupvilina, Pelletierina, Form a)a. C8Hi4CH.,N C„H,gN.2b2 C10H14N2 Actions.—To properly treat of the actions of alkaloidal substances on the body, volumes should have to be filled.