ACROMEGALY 49 factorily made out, though several views have been expressed to explain the causation of this peculiar and so well defined disease. Briefly enumerated these are :— 1. The neurotic theory. Recklinghausen and others have looked upon acromegaly as a neuro- trophic affection. This view is based on the fact that in some observations changes in the nervous system, especially in the sympathetic ganglia and in the peripheral nerves, have been noticed. In many cases no noteworthy changes have been found in these nervous structures, whilst the trophic changes seen in nervous affections are generally of a different nature. 2. Klebs believed that the disease was due to the persistence of the thymus gland. This theory is no longer tenable, for in many cases of acromegaly the thymus gland was either absent or had undergone fatty changes. Furnivall's analysis shows that out of nineteen fatal cases it was aljsent in seven, hypertrophied in three, persistent in eight. 3. Some believe that to alterations in the thyroid gland, which had been fomid enlarged in some cases, must be ascribed the primary cause of the disease, especially also as occasion- ally symptoms of myxcedema are noticed, but Furnivall's table shows that out of twenty-nine cases in which the condition of the thyroid gland was observed, it was found normal in five, hyper- trophied in seventeen, and degenerated or atro- piiied in the rest of the cases. 4. Purely theoretical is the view held by some that the disease is due to an involution, a retm-n to the type of the anthropoid ape. 5. Many now hold the view that the changes in pituitary body may explain the symptoms. In favour of this view it must be stated that in all the fatal cases (Furnivall gives thirty-four, to which I may add three more, one of my own not yet published) the pituitary gland was found affected. This gland, complex in its structure, occupies a peculiar position, both as regards its develop- ment and probable function. It exercises a trophic influence on the nervous system, and its hypertropliy, which was noticed in so many of the fatal cases of aci'omcgaly, might explain some of tiie symptoms of acromegaly. According to this theory the pituitary body stands in the same relation to acromegaly as the thyroid gland to myxcedema, or more likely to Graves' disease. Against this view may, however, be cited— 1. That tumours of pituitary gland have been noticed without any symptoms of acromegaly. 2. The changes in the pituitary body found in acromegaly are so very different, and 3. That the hypertrophy of the pituitai-y gland often noticed in the post-mortem cases examined may merely be a symptom and part of the general hypertrophy. Differential Diagnosis. — The diagnosis of the affection when fully developed is easy enough; I VOL. I in its earlier stages tiie symptoms of cerebral tumour (atrophy of discs, vomiting, headache) may preponderate, or in the acute case the symptoms of dialietes. Affections which it niay simulate are— 1. Myxcedema. In tiiis affection there is noticed slowness of speech, tremors, bland and apathetic expression of face, the coarse character and scaly appearance of the skin of the hands, which are large and spadish, but the thickening is due to the soft parts and not to the bone. There is no prognathus and no marked increase in size of the head. 2. In Paget's disease — here we may have enlargement of the head, kyphosis, thickening of the bones; the deformities, however, of the long bones in this disease, and the absence of the thickening of the soft parts, form sufficient differential points. Moreover, the hands and feet are not affected, the lower jaw does not project, and the bones of the face not enlarged. 3. Diffuse hyperostosis, and the various types of giant-growth (Sternberg). Treatment.—Removal of the tumour of the pitxiitary body has been attempted in one case (Caton), but unsuccessfully, and trephining of the skull to relieve intracranial pressure (Lynn Thomas). The organic extracts, thyroid gland extract, and extract of pit^iitary body, either the one or tlie other, or both combined, have been extensively tried, but with varying results, and as many cases of acromegaly show often a temporary recession in their symptoms, it is difficult to say how much of the improvement noticed is due to the treatment. Iodine and iodides have been given for some time, and in some cases with distinct amelioration of the symptoms. Cases complicated with diabetes require, of course, careful dietetic treatment, and large doses of alkalies may prevent the occurrence of diabetic coma. Massage and electrical treatment have given only very equi- vocal results. Acromion. See Fractures {Scapula) : and Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries of. Acromphalium.—The stump of the umbilical cord attaciied to the abdomen of the new-born infant; incipient umbilical hernia. Acroparaesthesia.—Partesthesia of a limb ; numlmess of tlie extremities. Acropathy.—Disease of the extremities of the body. Acrophobia.—The fear or dread of re- maining in high places. See Insanity. Acrylic Acid.—A monobasic, colourless- acid (CjH^O,,); tiie oxide of acrolein. <SVf Liver- Physiology OF. Actaea Racemosa. See Cimicikuga. 4