OF BLOOD-VESSELS BRAIN, AFFECTIONS 474 l)ecause of the effect they may have in dilating the arterioles, and so permitting a more sudden and more complete access of blood to the brain. Hyper.^mia of the Brain.—In considering this subject great care must always be exercised b}' the observer not to imagine the pathological conditions to account for certain symptoms easilj' ascribed to hypersemia of the brain. The very existence of hypertemia of the brain, as related to any definite set of symptoms, has been doubted, and possibly with some reason. At all events, we may be quite sure that many of the conditions put down as the result of cerebral hvperajmia have no foundation in fact. Yet we cannot doubt that, as in other viscera, we n\&\ in the brain get a passive hypersemia the result of obstruction, and it is also possible that we may have, as the result of anxiety, overwork, and of poisons circulating in the blood, a con- dition of the brain which may be justly enough termed active hyperfemia. And it is now re- cognised that some forms of recurring insanity have as their physical complement a condition of active hypersemia of the brain. Symjytorns.—The symptoms ascribed to acute general hypertemia are headache, tinnitus, sensations of throbbing, flushing of the scalp and face, and injection of the conjunctiva. It is doubtful, however, whether flushing of the face has any sort of correlation with flushing of the brain. Insomnia, even delirium with hallucinations, and other mental symptoms may be present; and dull headache, dizziness, and feeling of fulness in the head are common. It is quite impossible to particularise more than this the symptoms of such an indefinite con- dition. Probably any elaboration of details would only result in misleading or erroneous statement. Etiology.—In reference to passive congestion, of course it is always produced by some mechani- cal obstruction to the flow of blood. Thus it occurs in heart disease, which causes overfilling of the venous system, and it may be produced by pressure upon any of the large veins in the chest or neck. Obstruction to the flow of blood through the lungs is also caused by chronic bronchitis and emphysema, and intensi- fied by the act of coughing. It is said that slight congestion may be produced by the wearing of a tight collar. Active congestion may result from over-action of the heart; from sudden contraction of the arterioles elsewhere, such as occurs in the skin during a rigor; dilatation of arterioles, such as results from the use of certain drugs,—nitrite of amyl or alcohol, for example; and it may also constitute the first stage of an inflammation such as meningitis. Sunstroke is probably also a cause of • active congestion, and symptoms ascribed to this have also been observed to occur in people who suffer from habitual loss of blood when for any reason this habitual discharge has been suppressed. Pathology and Pathological Anatomy.—It is impossible to describe any definite pathological anatomy of such a condition, because of the fact that simple active congestion disappears after death in every organ. So that the lesson impressed by such a fact is that whenever such conditions as we speak of as congestion—namely, dilatation of small arteries, perhaps effusion of blood or serum round them—are met with in any case, such symptoms are more correctly to be ascribed to a commencing inflammation than merely to either active or passive congestion. Microscopical examination has shown the capil- laries to be unduly large in passive congestion, and bulgings of them have occasionally been seen. After death by asphj-xia minute vessels here and there may be found to have ruptured, and blood pigment has been found in the sheaths in cases of slighter long-continued congestion. Minute microscopic haemorrhage into the cerebral substance may also be found almost constantly in those cases. Diagnosis.—In the matter of diagnosis, it must be remembered that cephalic sensations alone are of no diagnostic value. There is little doubt that many cases of neurasthenia have been recorded as cases of cerebral congestion. It is really diflficult to be definite in reference to diagnosis, but probably the truest guide is that which has been laid down by Gowers—namely, that the condition of congestion of the brain is rendered likely by the fact that the symptoms are increased when the amount of blood in the head is increased, and diminished under the opposite conditions. Treatment.—In passive congestion, of course, the treatment resolves itself into dealing with the conditions giving rise to it. Many causes are, unfortimately, beyond our control; but in conditions such as cough, cardiac weakness, and others giving rise to the symptoms of cerebral congestion these symptoms may be, if not lessened, at least in some degree modified. When the congestion is an active one, attention to the conditions which allow of a free escape of blood from the over-filled capillaries, and to the assumption of postures, etc., lessening the amount of blood in the cerebral arteries, must be assiduously directed. If the symptoms are actually acute, and it is desirable to lessen the quantity of blood at once, resort must be had to venesection, to the use of leeches, or to rapid and violent purging. Blood may also be drawn to the limbs by immersing them in warm water, and it is often comforting, if not perhaps so useful as it is supposed to be, to keep cold con- stantly applied to the head. (Edema of the Brain.—OEdema of the brain is defined by Mills as an effusion of serous fluid into or beneath the inter-cephalic membranes, or into the substance of the V)rain itself. It is doubtful whether its occurrence can Vje recog- nised definitely. It is extremely milikely that