191 ANGINA PECTORIS Vaso-niotor angina may thus belong either to the class of true or pseudo-angina, according to the conditions of the heart and vessels in which it occurs. Sj/iihilitic Anf/ina.—1 have seen two cases in which tlie symptoms of angina coincided with the growth of syphilitic nodes in the sternum, and disappeared along with the nodes them- selves during tiie administration of iodide of potassimn. It is difficult to say whether the attacli.s in these cases were of a reflex nature due to the irritation of the node, or whether they were caused by some other condition which was removed by the iodide along with the node. Reflex A>i(/ina.—As I have already mentioned, anginal pains may occur when the blood- pressure to be overcome becomes excessive for the heart. Irritation of sensory nerves tends to cause contraction of the blood-vessels, and thus such conditions as cause severe pain tend to bring on anginal attacks if the heart be already weak. This is, I think, the explanation of some cases of anginal pain occurring from painful distension of the stomach or colon by flatus, or from the passage of a calculus down the bile duct or ureter. At the same time it is to be remembered that distension of the stomach by flatus or food maj' cause a certain amount of displacement of the heart, and thus interfere mechanically with its action. Toxic Angina.—The excessive use of tobacco, tea, or coff'ee may cause angina which is often of the vaso-motor type. It is more conunon in patients under middle age, because the fright which such attacks give to the patients leads them to use the articles in question with great moderation, or to give them up entirely before any senile or degenerative changes have occurred in the heart. It is therefore as a rule recovered from, but, like vaso-motor angina, it may be very serious if the heart or coronary arteries have imdergone degeneration either from advancing years or other causes. Diagnosis.—The symptoms of angina ma}' be simulated by hysteria and by calculus in the bile duct. In hysteria the sense of suftbcation associated with severe pain in the cardiac region might lead one at first sight to say that the patient was suftering from angina pectoris, but such patients generally point to the throat as the place where the difliculty of breathing exists, and these cases are observed in young women. On examination of the heart, it will probably be found to be perfectly healthy, and even should a valvular murmur exist the prob- ability is that the case is not one of true angina. Moreover, there are usually other symptoms of hysteria, such as emotional dis- plays, which may alternate with comjilaints of cardiac pain, and copious discharge of pale urine after the attack is over. The symptoms of angina—the sudden acces- sion of the pain, the apparent diflnculty of breathing, the paleness, the cold sweats, may be simulated by the passage of a calculus down the ureter or of a calculus through the bile duct. The ditt'erence is that in the passage of a renal calcuhis the pain, as a rule, radiates downwards towards the bladder or towards the genitals, and the pain of a calculus passing through the gall duct tends to radiate more or less laterally, sometimes a little downwards towards the umbilicus, sometimes even a little upwards towards the shoulder, but generally towards the right shoulder and not down the arm. There are some cases of biliary calculi which are very difficult to diagnose from angina pectoris, because in cases where a calculus in the bile duct and a weak heart coincide, the irritation of the calculus passing througii the bile duct may give rise to some symptoms of cardiac failure which may be attributed to angina. Toxic angina is best diagnosed by the fact that it ceases when tobacco, tea, and coftee are left off' entirely. True angina usually occurs in men, more rarely in women above middle age. Even the first attack may be severe or fatal, but very often the history is that it has come on as a slight pain or feeling of oppression on trying to go uphill, running to catch a train, or other exertion, more especially soon after a meal. On careful auscultation a slight systolic murmur indicative of atheroma of the aorta may often be heard over the second right costal cartilage or first interspace close to the sternum. Sometimes this murmur is heard still more distinctly over the sternal end of the first rib. It might be very much localised, or may be conducted up towards the subclavian or carotids more especially to the right. The fact that pain or oppression comes on during exer- tion in a patient above middle age, and especially if the nun-mur jiist mentioned can be heard, renders the diagnosis of true angina, most ])robably correct. Prognosis. — In hysterical angina the pro- gnosis is good, and indeed the prognosis may be said to be good in most cases of cardiac pain in people below middle age, and where no fatty degeneration or other disease of the heart is present, and no indication is to be found of degeneration of the arteries. In persons above forty-five the prognosis must always be guarded, because the life of such persons is very uncertain. On the one hand, with care and attention, they may live for a good many years after the first attack of angina, but it is impossible to say when another attack may come on, and whether it may prove fatal or not. On this account patients suffering from angina, however sligiitly, ought to make provision for the possible occur- rence of sudden death by putting their affairs in order and carrying with them a card bearing their name and address.