96 ALCOHOLISM organisation and generally under the influence of a beverage in which the alcohol is pure, well diluted, and not too rapidly imbibed. But it is easy to understand that a person who can be- come so unobtrusively intoxicated, who drinks himself slowly to sleep, who does not become in any sense loud, and who perhaps postpones his sleep until he reaches his bed—such an one may never be suspected of drinking greatly to excess. Yet he is quite apt to become the victim of alcoholism. Anomalous intoxication is much more re- cognisable. As regards cerebral symptoms there are two important effects, each of which charac- terises a class of intoxication—stimulation, with excitement or excess of activity, and narcosis, with paresis or diminution of activity. Either stimulation or narcosis may be excessive or irregular in the sense that they invade one or moi'e functions disproportionately; and such anomalies of intoxication are important because they typify anomalies of alcoholism. For ex- ample, the narcosis may be disproportionate in the motor centres, so that a man may " keep iiis head, but lose his legs," his speech, his fingers, his eyes. There may be similarly an excess of sensory paresis, an anaesthesia of the lips or fingers, or a dulness of hearing. In another class are the anomalies of intoxication which are characterised by symptoms of excess. The most obvious type is the "drunk and disorderly" person who shouts, or dances, or is violently destructive long after he has " lost his head "— an excess of activity in motor centres which is disproportionate to the general narcosis. Even in a semi-comatose state, when the upright posture is impossible, there may be persistent local excesses, either of motor or sensory func- tions. Both of these kinds of anomalous in- toxication are easy of detection. It is the fortune or the misfortune of some persons that they become obviously drunk long before nar- cosis is complete, before they become drowsy. They also are apt to become victims of alco- holism, though not more so than those who become inobtrusively drunk. Their alcoholism, however, is likely to be anomalous. More unusual are those in whom the visceral effect of alcohol is very great, in whom, for ex- ample, nausea or palpitation supervenes, while they are still in full enjoyment of sense and of motion, or in whom the derangement of liver next day is out of all proportion to the purely nervous reaction. Some of these cases are perhaps truthfully described as instances of a peripheral nervous effect. They also typify forms of alcoholism—in which visceral disorders are out of proportion to the central impairment. By many acts of intoxication—regular or irregular—the patient arrives, often insensibly, at a stage in which his central nervous system has incurred a disease characteristic of his habit. The effects of intoxication depend upon the per- sonal equation, the nature of the drink, and the mode of drinking. Normally, the case develops into that state which is called Chronic Alco- holism. But on his way to it the patient may suffer one of several developments incidental to the disease. Incidents oe Interruptions in Alcoholism.— The affections here discussed are all recognised as separate diseases. They commonly occur in the course of general alcoholism, but any one of them may be an acute development in a patient in whom the general disorder is not very far advanced. Acute Alcoholism {Alcoholic Poisoning, Al- coholic Coma).—Acute Alcoholism occurs most commonly as the sequel of a silly wager made by some boy or man that he will drink so many bottles of beer or glasses of spirit in an absurdly short time. But it may also occur as a con- sequence of the removal of forethought and prudence under the influence of alcohol. I am convinced that this is one form of anomalous intoxication ; and it has not received sufficient attention. In normal cases the taste for drink subsides under a general narcosis. In other cases the person still appears to desire drink, at least he swallows it with some semblance of enjoyment, long after he can enjoy most other things. That is a very dangerous kind of effect, and any one who experiences it should be put upon his guard. (Memory should be the criterion. It is dangerous to drink more than one can remember.) The symptoms of Acute Alcoholism are those of Coma, and need not be discussed. Diagnosis, however, may be difficult, and should always be arrived at with great care. It should be a strict rule that all persons found comatose on the street should be taken to hospital or examined by a doctor before being consigned to the prison cell. The states which ought to be excluded in diagnosis are—Head Injury, Apoplexy or Embolism, Ursemic or Diabetic Coma, and Narcosis from some drug other than alcohol, especially opium or morphia. The real difficulty is that the case is often complicated, the drinking having preceded one of the above states. In pure cases diagnosis is general easy. The following are distinctive features. The pulse is often full and boimding, while the re- spirations are deep and slow ; the pupils are dilated ; the temperature is subnormal and the same on both sides; muscular twitchings may occur, convulsions rarely, and reaction to stimu- lation may be evoked in the various muscular departments of the arm or leg, or the patient may be incited to speech. Treatment is practi- cally the same as for any other narcosis. The stomach should be washed out. Emesis is neither so safe nor so satisfactory. I have re- peatedly seen alarming collapse follow apo- morphia. Careful washing out need not put any great strain upon the heart, especially when