ANKLE-JOINT, REGION OF—INJURIES AND DISEASES 203 be the seat of diffuse gummatous infilt^'atiori of the joint capsule, accompanied hy thickening of the .synovial membrane and a moderate eliusion of synovia. More rarely the joint is affected secondarily to a gummatons osteitis of the neighbouring bones. The importance of re- cognising these cases from tuberculous lesions is evident. Affections of this joint have also been met with in congenital syphilis. Treatment Ijy rest and by the internal ad- ministration of mercury and potassiimi iodide will speedily cure the secondary synovitis. In cases of tertiary affections, however, the treat- ment will be more tedious, and will necessitate a prolonged course of iodides, with appropriate local treatment. GoNORiiHCEAL AFFECTIONS.—With the single exception of the knee, no joint is, in our ex- perience, more lialtle to be affected by gonorrhoea than the ankle. This complication most often occurs during the third or fourth week of the disease. It is usually accompanied by con- siderable effusion, and in acute cases by severe pain. In most cases it takes the form of a more or less acute synovitis with serous effusion, but in a few rare cases there is a suppurative arthritis. Serous effusion is probably caused l)y toxines of bacterial origin, which have been absorbed into the blood from the urethra. Sup- purative cases are accompanied by the presence of bacteria themselves in the joint. The gonococcus has been foinid in some cases. So frequent are gonorrhceal joint-affections, that it is always well to consider the possibility of this cause in cases of effusion of doubtful origin. Unless the cause be treated, the articular trouble will probably undergo little improve- ment. In most cases complete recovery takes place, but occasionally the effusion is of a very plastic character, and gradually leads to anky- losis. In women it is stated that a similar affection may be due to non-specific leucorrhoea, and in children undoubted cases have occurred in connection with gonorrha'al ophthalmia. A very intractable form of this disease some- times affects the ankle and tarsal joints simul- taneously, and may be accompanied by in- flannnation of the plantar fascia and other fibrous structures of the sole, thus leading to very troublesome flat-foot. Plantar neuralgia is frequently due to gonorrhanil inflammation of the fibrous structiu'es of the sole. Treatment, in the first place, must be directed to removing the cause. The joint should be kept at rest in the earlier stages, and an attexupt made to get rid of the effusion by blistering and a moderate degree of pressiu-e. The internal administration of salol is also very effective in promoting absorption. The joint should not be kept at rest too long, because of the risk of ankylosis, and hence massage and passive move- ment should be commenced as soon as the greater part of the effusion has been absorbed. It must be remembered, moreover, that relapse is very liable to take place, and hence the patient should continue under treatment luitil the gonorrha'al discharge has quite subsided. OsTEO-AimiRiTis.— The ankle-joint is com- paratively rarely affected by osteo - arthritis. When the disease does occur, both ankles are usually involved, and generally other joints at the same time. The symptoms are similar to those of osteo-arthritis in other situations— stiffness, pain, gradual impairment of movement, progressive weakness, grating, and the presence of osteophytes. The affection is apt to be accompanied Ijy an intractable form of flat-foot, partly due to muscular weakness, but largely to involvement of the ligamentous structiu'es of the sole. Treatment may be chiefly conducted as foi' osteo-arthritis in other situations. Pain will be relieved l)y I'est, elevation of the limb, and hot fomentations. The joint should be kept warm by flannel, and in most cases the substitution of a boot of soft leather or cloth for the ordinary boot will lie necessary. Daily massage and friction with liniments will give considerable relief in most cases. Occasionally the use of a light steel support is advantageous. Gouty Arthritis. — After the great toe the ankle is one of the most favoiu'ite sites of gouty deposits. This is probably diie to the sluggish nature of the circulation in the lower part of the legs of many of those who are subject to gout. The disease is accompanied by a local deposit of urate of soda, and from time to time the patient experiences explosive attacks of inflammation of the peri-articular structures, although the attacks usually follow a less typical coiu-se than in the case of the great toe. The treatment of these cases must be as for gout in other situations. Tabetic Arthropathy (Charcot's Joint Disease).—In some cases of locomotor ataxia a peculiar joint-aftection occurs, especially in the knees, hips, ankles, and elbows. The ankle is aft'ected in about foiu* per cent of cases which present this complication. It may occur either in the pre-ataxic or the ataxic stage. The onset is usually sudden, and is accompanied by abundant ett'usion into the joint. As a rule there is but little pain. In favourable cases the efl'usion begins to be absorbed in the course of a few days, and the joint may return almost, if not quite, to its normal condition. More frequently, however, the effusion is more per- sistent, and rapid degenerative changes take j)lace, leading to excessive mobility of the joint. Occasionally a considerable amoimt of new l)one is thrown out, and the movements ai'c restricted. Similar changes are occasionally met with in the foot, owing to involvement of the tarsal bones and joints. The bones, which are frequently enlarged, tend to fall downwards and