99 A LCOHOLISM the most iioprcs.sivc, tliouyh tiut by any means frequent in alcoholism; unless, as is not im- pro1)able, petit mal is much more frequent than patients admit. Alcoholic epilepsy may be general and reseml>le true epilepsy, or there may be a local tonic spasm, followed by clonus, that is, an epileptiform seizure. Alcoholic fits, as a rule, are successfully treated by al)stincnce, and by improving the general health. That fact in therapeutics should be regarded as a symptom also, revealing the nature of the lesion. Persistent convulsions may be diagnosed as non- alcoholic, that is, as due to a lesion which is perhaps added to an alcoholic lesion. [<S'ee " Epilepsy."] Motor paralysis of almost any kind may occur in alcoholism. We nuist, however, discount such a paralysis as follows a gross lesion. That is a complication of the alcoholic disease, not an essential pai't of it. It would probably be con- sidered rash were we to admit that, for example, hemiplegia might occur as due to the micro- scopic lesion which 1 take to be the lesion of alcoholism ; but there are cases when rapid recovery under abstinence suggests that this may l)e so. If apliasia occurs in alcoholism without a gross lesion, why not hemiplegia? Local ])areses, certainly central in origin, do occur. The ditliculty is to discern what is absurdly called tlie hysterical or functional element — which is really a matter for jjsy- rhology. An aphonia, for example, which is not uncommon in alcoholism, a temporary loss of the use of a limb, or a temporary pai-alysis which the patient assumes to be complete (lielieving himself luiable to move), certainly implies a lesion which afifects the patient pur- posively, so that he does not try his l)est to speak or to move ; liut such a state of mind is almost certainly induced by a state of motor centres or nerves, in which the patient has really tried to exercise the muscles and has failed. That the delusion pei'sists after the temporary naotor paralysis has disapjieared does not diminish the gravity of the motor disability. That a paresis of plionation does occur there can be no doubt, (.^uite commonly also there is a marked defect of speech. Aphasia has been referred to as part of Amnesic Alcoholic Insanity. But a disability in articulation, which is usually associated with marked tremors and spasms, is very common, and it is often aggravated by effort, so that the patient does really find it im- possible to make his tongue and lips complete a sentence. The paresis, on the other hand, may become conspicuous in much less voluntary movements. Deglutition may be impaired, or there may be interference with the vesical or rectal reflexes, out of due time. Paraplegia sometimes occurs; but that, like Neuritic Paralysis, may jierhaps be best regarded as due to a new and distant lesion. Sensory.—Psychical impairments in Alcohol- ism are usually obvi(Mis, motor impairments are almost necessarily so, but sensory defects are often concealed. In all probability there is, in every grave alcoholic case, a quite considerable paresis of sensation. But while the patient is ill he does not refer to it, and if he recovers he has forgotten it. Muscular mad tactual sen- sations may be observed to fail, or their failure may be implied in the disal)ility which prevents graduated refinements of effort, but neither that nor a failure of any of the special senses is usually prominent or c<jmplained of in alcoholic disease. Much more commonly the disturbance does not apparently get beyond a lesion of excess. Parajsthesia of all sorts is common, illusion and hallucination. Of these, hallucina- tions of hearing are the most impressive. They may be both elaborate and persistent. Parses- thesia of hearing — an illusion — is probably commoner than is supposed. Any kind of auditor}^ stinndation may be mistranslated into a wrong auditory perception. That is certainly' tlie case with vision. Hallucinations of sight ai'e not very common, though they do occur. As a rule, they are simple and not elaborate— clouds, lights, colours, flashes, etc. But quite commonly the patient suffers from visual illusion (paresthesia not discerned), perceiving people or beasts in foliage, trees as men, or significant forms in fire, smoke, or cloud. It is impossible to say how much of the symptoms is due to a real partesthesia, and how much tfi a disordered judgment and perverted imagination. The same difficulty arises in estimating the perversions of taste and of smell which are connnon in alco- holism. Similarly, the " hallucinations of skin " may develop out of real para'sthesia. A sense of heat or of cold, of a localised blushing or blanching, an itch, a cold trickle, a crawling, a sense of small movement (as of a worm) under the skin—these may be modified, minimised, or amplified, according to the vagaries of the patient's attention. In estimating pain espeei- all}' there is great diiliculty. No douVit neui'- algic symptoms are very common, but it is impossible to get at the truth about them. Foi- the same reason anaesthesias of all sorts can only be fallaciously investigated. One meets with cases of complete, though transient, loss of one or other of the special senses. Local anpesthesias of the skin and misi-eference of slight sensation are very common. But in nearly all such cases, when the lesion has got the length of grave sensory impairments, one is dealing with a person in whom observation of self is notoriously misleading, and whose attention is very pre- carious. ViscEHAL, Vascular, axd Trophic Varia- tions.—I now speak, not of such lesions as primary structural alteration in the blood-vessels or other organs, but only of neuroses. Of the visceral-neiirotic anomalies in alco- holism by far the most important, in my