ARTERIES, LIGATURE OF 274 ligated below the circumflex arteries, the circu- lation in the upper limb will be carried on b}^ anastomosis of the subscapular and circumflex arteries with the superior profunda. Ligature of the Brachial Artery.—This vessel continues the course of the axillary artery, and reaches from the lower margin of the teres major to a point opposite the neck of the radius, where it bifurcates into the radial and ulnar arteries. It is remarkably superficial in its whole course, except just near its bifurca- tion. The artery is accompanied by two venfe comites, and is crossed from without inwards by the median nerve about the middle of the upper arm. The artery may require ligature for wound of the vessel, for palmar haemorrhage, or for aneurysm in the region of the elbow. Ligature of the Brachial Artery in the Middle of the Arm.—The arm being held at a right angle to the trunk and the forearm supinated, an incision three inches in length is made through skin and superficial fascia along the inner margin of the biceps muscle. The basilic vein, thus exposed, is drawn aside, and the deep fascia cautiously divided. The artery is now found with the median nerve crossing it. The nerve is to be drawn aside (generally outwards), the venae comites are separated from the artery, which is then ligated, the needle being passed from the nerve. It must be borne in mind that the nerve may cross behind the artery, and that the vessel itself may have divided high up in the arm. There will in this case be two arteries to ligature in place of one. The inner margin of the biceps must always be most carefully defined, and the arm must not rest on the table, otherwise the triceps will be pushed up so as to partly cover the artery. Ligature of the Brachial Artery at the Bend of the Elbow.—An incision, oblique, from within outwards and downwards, and two inches in length, is made parallel to the inner margin of the biceps tendon. The skin, fascia, and bi- cipital aponeurosis having been divided, the ai-tery will be found having the biceps tendon on its outer side, and the median nerve some little distance away on its inner side. The needle is passed from within outwards. Collateral Circulation. — If, as commonly happens, the ligature is applied to the artery below the origin of the inferior profunda branch, the superior and inferior profunda arteries from above anastomose with the radial recurrent, the anterior and posterior ulnar re- current, the interosseus recurrent, and the anastomotica magna arteries. Ligature of Arteries in the Forearm.— Spontaneous aneurysm being below the brachial so rare that its existence is almost doubtful, and traumatic aneurysm being very rare, it follows that ligature of the radial and ulnar arteries will only, save under very exceptional circum- stances, be required for haemorrhage following injury to these vessels. In all such cases the j wounded vessel must be secured by ligature above and below the bleeding point. j Ligature of the Radial Artery.—A line | drawn from just below the centre of the bend of the elbow to a point half an inch internal to the styloid process of the radius will indicate '. with sufficient accuracy the course of the radial j artery in the forearm. Ligature in Upper Part of Forearm.—An incision two to two and a half inches long is made in the line of the vessel, and the inter- muscular space between the supinator radii ^ longus and the pronator radii teres is widened , by retracting outwards the inner border of the | former muscle, under which lie the radial artery, and its venae comites. The radial nerve | is in close relation with the artery on its outer side only in the middle third of the forearm. j Ligature in the Lower Part of the Forearm.— Just above the wrist is the seat of election for [ ligature of this vessel. Here the artery with \ its two venae comites lies very superficial, j covered only by skin and a thin fascia, between j the tendons of the sujiinator radii longus and ] flexor carpi radialis. An incision one and a [ half inches in length readily exposes the vessel. [ The radial nerve has at this place left the artery '| to pass to the dorsum of the wrist. j Ligature on the Dorsum of the Wrist.— i The radial artery is readily ligated in the so- j called " tabatiere anatomique," where it lies j between the tendons of the extensor primi j internodii and secundi internodii pollicis in its course towards the proximal end of the first j interosseous space. ( An incision one and a half inches in length is made parallel with the former tendon and to its ulnar side. The radial vein is avoided, and ' the deep fascia being incised, the artery is f found and ligated. Great care must be taken j! to avoid wounding the tendon sheaths, otherwise S adhesions may form between the tendons and j! neighbouring structures. \ Ligature of the Ulnar Artery. — The f course of the vessel corresponds to a line drawn ' from just below the centre of the bend of the [i elbow to the radial side of the pisiform bone. |, In the upper third of its course in the forearm )i it is directed obliquely downwards and inwards, i and pla'ced so deeply that its ligature here ji cannot be required. The vessel may be liga- ; tured about the middle of the forearm or above the wrist. In the former position the vessel is overlapped by the flexor carpi ulnaris, which lies on its inner side. .Just above the wrist it is superficially placed between the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris on its ulnar side, and the tendons of the flexor sublimis digitorum on its radial aspect. The ulnar nerve in the lower two-thirds of the forearm lies closely applied to the inner side of the artery. Ligature in the Middle of the Forearm.-—An