ANAESTHETICS—CHLOROFORM 142 suggestion, to the closing metal attachment. The afferent tube along which the entering air travels should be tipped with bone, asbestos, or some non-conducting substance to obviate freezing. The eff'erent tube, or that along which Dr. Dudley Buxton's modification of Junker's Inhaler, showing hand bellows, chloroform bottle, and glass mask titled with metal mount, with lint stretched across. the chloroform laden air passes to traverse the tube leading to the glass face-piece, must be carried down the bottle sufficiently far to pre- vent the chloroform entering it in a liquid state if the bottle is tilted or inverted. Care must also be taken that the tubes connected with the hand or foot bellows and face-piece respectively are attached to the proper taps on the metal mount of the bottle. The bellows are at first compressed only slightly, but as the sensibility of the naso- pharynx is diminished the air may be pumped more vigorously. In operations upon the mouth, nose, etc., in which the mask cannot be kept applied, after full anaesthesia is obtained the face-piece is quickly slipped off' the tube and replaced by a soft gum elastic catheter or narrow calibred metal tube, and the chloroform given by this tube either placed in the nose (catheter) or in the mouth (metal tube). The amount of chloroform used can by this apparatus be regulated to a nicety, and an ex- cessive strength of vapour be completely avoided. Any one, however, expert in the use of a drop method, since " drops " are very indefinite in size, or in that of the " open method," cannot hope to secure his patient against danger in half so effectual a way as can be achieved by the use of a regulating inhaler. As to the CHOICE of an/esthbtics, the writer's experience has lead him to the following conclu- sions :—Chloroform may be given practically to any one in whom the organs are not diseased, provided due time is allowed for the administra- tion ; a regulating apparatus is employed, and air is at no time withheld. On the other hand, for persons with disorganised circulation, especi- ally where the heart is at fault—beating feebly, enlarged, presumably fatty ; and when there is extreme shock during such operations as involve great loss of blood, chloroform is less safe than ether. Ether may be employed for all persons and any age whose organs are normal. In the extremes of life the amount of ether given must be greatly restricted, but the youngest children will take ether well if it is properly ad- ministered. When given to children, ether should be supplemented by nitrous oxide or the A.C.E. mixture, either of these being used to induce anaesthesia and the ether employed to maintain it. Comparatively little ether is thus required. It should be given mixed with plenty of air. Those who have pulmonary diseases, habitual cough, or who are greatly cyanosed, take ether extremely badly, and it is probably safer to avoid its use in these cases and also when the kidneys are cirrhotic. The employment of nitrous oxide gas before ether obviates many of the objections commonly urged against that antesthetic, and enables it to be employed without discomfort to the patient, without struggling, and with a much smaller expenditure of the ether than in the older method. This is an important point, since the cooling and chilling of the lungs, etc., and the " after effects" in general, are directly in proportion to the amount of the ether or other anaesthetic inhaled. In persons who struggle much, who show a tendency to spasmodic fixation of the thorax, and who become cyanosed, the use of oxygen with ether is of great value. At no time should ether be used by an open method. Chloroform Discovery ..... Objections to Chloroform Advantages of Chloroform . Methods of Diminishing the Dangers Methods of Administration . Stages of Anesthesia and Complica tions ...... Points in Special Cases After-Management .... 143 143 143 144 145 146 147 149 See also Abdomen, Clinical Investigation of ; Analgesics ; Antispasmodics ; Asphyxia ; Children, Clinical Examination of ; Convul- sions, Infantile ; Eclampsia ; Labour, Manage- ment OF; Labour, Operations in ; Morphino- mania and allied Drug Habits ; Oxygen ;