456 BOURBONNE-LES-BAINS NEOLOGY {France) ; Mineral Waters (Muriated Saline). Bournemouth. See Therapeutics, Health Eesobts {Em/lidt). Bovee Operation.—Vaginal shorten- ing of the utero-sacral hgaments in cases of retroversion and retroflexion of the uterns. See Uterus, Displacements of [Retroversimi). Bovine.—Belonging to the ox tribe, e.g. bovine tubercle bacillus, or the bacillus of tubercle as it occurs in cows. See Foot and Mouth Disease ; Tuberculosis. Bovinine.—A proprietary preparation believed to consist of ox-blood, brandy, and egg albumen. It is used as a tonic, and may be applied locally to slowly healing ulcers or wounds. Bowditcil Island Ringfworm.— Tinea Imbricata. See Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Caused by Vegetable Parasites). Bowels. See Constipation ; Diarrhoea ; Entbroptosis ; Intestines, Diseases of ; Intes- tines, Surgical Affections of ; Mel^na ; Pregnancy, Management ; Puerperium, Physio- logy {Management); Puerperium, Pathology ; Typhoid Fever ; etc. Bow-Leg's. See Deformities {Boiv-Legs). Bowman's Capsule. See Kidney, Physiology ; Physiology, Excretion {Renal). Bozeman's Catheter. See Pubr PERiUM, Pathology (Intra-Uteri.ne Douching). Brachial Artery. See Aneurysm; Arteries, Ligature of. Brachial Plexus, Surgical Af- fections of. Surgical Anatomy . Wounds of Tears and Contusions Pressure Lesions . Neuralgia Operations 456 456 458 459 459 459 See also Axilla {Injuries of); Paralysis; Syringomyelia. Surgical Anatomy.—Occupying the posterior triangle of the neck, and extending thence to the sub-clavicular fossa, the brachial plexus is formed by the anterior divisions of the four lower cervical nerves, the first dorsal nerve, and a part of the fourth cervical root. Its roots may be here considered together with the plexus itself, and thus defined : It lies within a triangle whose base is the spine, from the fourth cervical to the second dorsal vertebra, and whose apex is internal to the coracoid pro- cess. Its roots, gradually approaching one another, pass from the inter-vertebral foramina through and between the anterior and middle scalene muscles, and then decussate. As a rule the fifth and sixth roots, with the slip from the fourth, join to form an upper trunk ; the eighth cervical and first dorsal form a lower trunk; the seventh cervical constitutes a middle trunk. Thereafter each trunk sends a branch to form the posterior cord ; the remainder of the lower trunk forms the lower cord; the remainder of the upper and middle trunks form the upper cord. The subsequent distribution of these cords is described in text-books of anatomy. The attempt to trace anatomically the destina- tion of each root of the brachial plexus is sur- rounded with difficulties, but the experimental studies of Ferrier and Yeo and of Sherrington, and the clinical observations of Duchenne, Erb, the writer. Head, Kocher, and others, have now made us tolerably familiar with their course. The following diagrams indicate the results of Kocher's most recent work upon this subject. In Fig. 1 the various motor roots are traced out through the plexus to their respective mviscles ; in Figs. 2 and 3 the sensory distribution of the same roots on the front and back of the limb is also shown ; but it is probable that the outer part of the area assigned by Kocher to the first dorsal root is in reality supplied by the eighth cervical, the various " root areas " thus lying in parallel series in the order in which we may suppose the body segments to have been pushed out from the trunk by the lateral projection of the limb bud. With the aid of the following diagrams it will generally be found possible to locate with pre- cision the extent to which the brachial plexus is involved in any pathological process, but it is also of the greatest importance to be able to estimate how far from the cord any given lesion is situated. For this purpose we may indicate the order of origin of some of its highest branches:— The first branch of the first dorsal nerve passes to the cervical sympathetic and then supplies the dilator iridis and the muscle of Mtiller. The fifth and adjacent roots give oiT branches above the plexus in the following order, as we pass downwards from the spinal cord :— {a) To the rhomboids (5th). (b) To the subclavius (5th and 6tli). (c) To the serratus magnus and supra- and infra-spinati (5th and 6th). By noting whether the above muscles are or are not involved in a paralysis, we can deter- mine how far from the spine is the lesion causing such paralysis. Wounds.—The whole or a part of the brachial plexus may be divided by cuts, stabs, and other similar woimds of the neck, and especially by those of the posterior triangle or of the sul)- clavicular fossa, although it is not exempt from injury in deep wounds of other regions of the