234 APHASIA speech centre would produce word-blindness and agraphia. A lesion at 3 would produce agraphia (unless the motor - writing centre could be put into action in some roundabout way), but would not produce word-blindness (the visual speech centre being intact). The Relative Activity of the Correspond- ing Speech Centres in the two Hemispheres OF the Brain.—In the great majority of persons the active speech centres are situated on the side of the brain which is for them the " active," " driving," or " leading " side. And since the great majority of persons are right-handed, the active speech centres are in most persons located in the left hemisphere of the brain. In left- handed persons, on the contrary, the active speech centres are usually located in the right hemisphere of the brain. Hence in right-handed persons an attack of right hemiplegia is apt to be associated with aphasia, while in left-handed persons the reverse is the case. Exceptions to this statement are, however, occasionally met with. But although the active or driving speech centres are situated in right-handed persons on the left, and in left-handed persons on the right side of the bi-ain, there is, I think, every reason to suppose that the corresponding centres in the opposite (non-leading or non-driving) hemisphere are possessed of some sort of speech function. Further, I believe that the relative activity of the speech centres in the inactive (non- leading) hemisphere may not only vary in dif- ferent individuals, but that it varies, in some degree, with the special function of the speech centre concerned ; the bilateral representation is probably most marked in the case of the auditory speech centre; but probably also obtains, in some degree, in the case of the visual speech centre and the motor-vocal speech centre. We may say, then, that the speech centres are bilaterally located; but that, in the great majority of persons at all events, they are only sufficiently educated to actively and inde- pendently carry on the speech function on one .side of the brain (i.e. the side of the brain which in the particular individual is the " driving " side). Exceptions to this statement do, however, occasionally, though rarely, occur. The existence of two centres for each speech faculty (in the right and left hemispheres of the brain), the functional activity of which may perhaps vary in some, though usually only in a slight degree in different individuals, and with the special speech faculty involved, is probably one explanation of the somewhat puzzling differ- ences in the clinical phenomena which are met with in different cases of aphasia, and especially of the differences which occur at different stages of the same case. The Blood-Supply of the Speech Area.—The middle cerebral artery supplies the speech centres as well as the motor area of the cortex, and it is important to remember that the speech centres are situated on the outskirts of the area of its distribution, and that in some brains the speech centres may receive a supplementary blood- supply from the adjacent arteries; in other words, in some brains the auditory speech centre and the visual speech centre seem to be partly supplied by the posterior cerebral artery, and the motor-vocal speech centre and the motor- writing centre (if it is situated, as Exner sup- poses, in the posterior end of the second left frontal convolution) seem to be partly supplied by the anterior cerebral artery. Hence, embolic obstruction of the nutrient artery which supplies any one of these speech centres will, in most cases (i.e. those in which there is no supple- mentary blood-supply), produce complete and persisting aphasia, which in the great majority of cases can only be recovered from by the education of the corresponding centre in the right hemisphere; whereas, in a small propor- tion of cases (i.e. those in which there is a sup- plementary or inosculatory blood-supply) it will merely produce a temporary aphasia. Physiological Introduction The Nature of Speech.—The act of speaking- consists in the production of a series of highly elaborate co-ordinate muscular movements, the outcome of which is the production of certain sound vibrations (spoken words) to which a definite meaning is attached. A spoken word may be regarded as the motor equivalent of the sensory impressions which are produced in the auditory centre by the sound viVjrations of which that word is composed ; and the idea or memory of a spoken word, or rather of the muscular movements which are necessary for its produc- tion, consists in the revival in consciousness of the sensory impressions which attend the pro- duction of that movement. In the case of a spoken word these sensory impressions are chiefly auditory, partly visual and kineesthetic. The idea or memory of a written word consists in the revival in consciousness of the sensory impres- sions which attend the act of reading and writing. These memories arc chiefly visual, partly kinais- thetic. Aphasia due to a Process of Dissolution.— The derangements of speech and intellectual language included under the term aphasia are degradations of function produced by disease ; in other words, they are the results of a process of dissolution ; whereas the development and train- ing of the speech mechanisms and speech functions are the result of a process of evolution. In typical cases of total aphasia the patient is reduced, so far as his speech functions arc con- cerned, to the position of a child who has not yet acquired the power of understanding spoken language, of speaking, of reading, and of writing. But in many cases of aphasia the process of dis-