ANESTHETICS—CHLOROFORM 145 to discontinue the vise of this metliod, as, besides the other risks and inconveniences, the recti muscles of the abdomen generally remained firm and contracted even when the anaesthesia was dangerously profound, and on the wliole at least as much danger was added as was supposed to be saved by the lessened amount of chloroform employed. The only useful preliminary drug that assists the ansesthesia is that introduced, it is lielieved, by Bouchut, in the case of children. It is very unpleasant, in private families, to compel little children to take chloroform as an anaesthetic ; and their struggling and screaming when doing so, most trying to parents and relations, as well as to the practitioner himself, can, in suitable cases, be avoided by giving the child a teaspoon- ful of syrup of chloral—10 grains—an hour and a half or two hoiu-s beforehand. The sleeping- child can then be put under chloroform without being awakened, if it be gently and carefully begun. This may now and then be done to a sleeping child without using chloral, but it is exceptional. Where the heart is diseased, Langlois and Maurange have recommended three or four centigrammes of oxyspartein, with morphia, to be injected hypodermically a quarter of an hour before the chloroform is given. The writer generally uses in these cases ten or fifteen minims of tincture of digitalis three times a day, for three or four days beforehand. Chloroform vapour has been administered per rectum to produce anresthesia. It is difficult to see the advantages of this, while the objections to it are manifest. Rival Anaesthetics. — To discuss the ad- ministration of ether, bromethyl, nitrous oxide, nitrous oxide followed by ether, Schleich's par- enchymatous injections of weak saline solutions of cocaine, ether and oxygen, local freezing, and so forth, as compared with chloroform for an- aesthetic purposes, would be apart from the scope of this article. Such of them as ai'e good, and they are not all good, are of coiu'se useful under suitable conditions. In large infirmaries, in operation tlieatres where a special anaesthetist is available, and in large towns where wealthy patients can suitably rennnierate those who devote themselves to these forms of anaesthesia, nothing can be said against their use. Quite the reverse. But it must be clear that such methods are unsuitable in the hands of the busy general practitioner, the country doctor, in practice among the poor, in military surgery, on board ship, in the Colonies, or in remote and uupopulous districts, where chloroform is the only drug that can be advantageously employed. Inhalers.— Inhalers of various kinds have often been recommended for chloroform ad- ministration, and for those who devote them- selves specially to this, in hospitals and great cities, they are no doubt useful and beneficial. VOL. I But for general use, all of them—even the simple mask laid over the mouth and nose, while the chloroform is dropped on it—are a hindrance rather than a help to the general practitioner, or to one practising away from great institutions. To carry an inhaler about so that it is always at hand when wanted ; to clean it when, as it often will, it becomes soiled with blood, ex- pectoration, or vomited matters; to preserve it where the smell of the chloroform adhering to it will not be mipleasant; these are difficulties whose repetition and accumulation render the inhalers unsuitable for general use. No inhaler is so good as a clean towel, on whose white surface the amount of the drug administered can be most accurately gauged, and which can, when soiled, be thrown aside and replaced by a fresh one, as often as may be required. Administration op Chloroform. Prelimi- naries.—There is no advantage in using " pure chloroform," that is, chloroform prepared from pure alcohol. "Methylated chloroform," manu- factured from methylated spirit, is as good, as pure, and as safe, and costs considerably less The chloroform used is best kept in a well- stoppered bottle, and in a dark cupboard ; for if kept in the light, and exposed to the air, it may in time become "stale"; and when this happens, after-sickness is more likely to be troublesome. When chloroform is given in a small room near naked lights, and for a long time, the vapour, decomposed by the flame into phosgen, hydrochloric acid, etc., is sometimes felt to be irritating to the eyes of the anaesthetist, surgeon, or assistants ; for this there is no cure save an open door or other improved ventilation, but no harm ensues from it. Preparation of Patient.— To prevent or di- minish the unpleasant or dangerous eftects of chloroform to our patients, either during or after the administration, it is well to have them thoroughly purged out daily, and light diet only given, for three, four, or five days beforehancl, and patients prepared in this way suffer much less than those who cannot be so treated. Even for facilitating the operation itself, this prepara- tion is often of much service by preventing or diminishing sickness during it. And for six or eight hours beforehand, in the young and strong, no food or liquid at all should be permitted. It is well to remember that even drinking water during this interval should be distinctly forbidden, as patients often think that, provided they abstain from food, water will do them no harm, whence unwelcome vomiting during the anaesthesia may ensue. In the case of those who are feeble, a cup of beef-tea with half a slice of toasted bread may be given without harm, three hours before the anaesthetic is administered. And where heart disease exists, half an ounce of wine or brandy diluted with the same quantity of water, if given 10