220 ANTI- hetic, and the like, the signification of which is apparent; but it is also used in the composition of other terms the meaning of which is either less evident or has become specialised, and some of these names are referred to below. Antia.brin.—An antitoxin produced in the blood after abrin has been given. See Abrus Precatorius. Antia.rthrill. —A proprie tary antarthri tic powder said to contain salicin, with roasted chestnut added to mask the taste; used in the uric acid diathesis. AntibclCterin. — A proprietary anti- septic ; as are also antibacillin and antihacillare. Antibes. See Therapeutics, Health Eesorts {The Riviera). Antibodies.—Antitoxins or glabrificins ; substances found in the blood and tissues of animals immunised by inoculation, which act on the pathogenic bacteria and render them capable of being acted on by the alexins. See Immunity. AnticholagfOg^ueS. — Hepatic depres- sants ; medicines which decrease the quantity of bile secreted, e.g. opium; not used as such. AntiCOmpiement. See Complement; Immunity. Atl'tidO'teS.—Medicines which counteract the effects of poisons, either chemically, mechanic- ally, or physiologically. See Toxicology. Antiemetics.—Medicines or substances which check vomiting; such are all the gastric sedatives, as well as opium, the bromides, chloral, etc. See Pharmacology. Antifebrin.—An antipyretic and anal- gesic. See Acetanilide ; Analgesics ; Drug Eruptions ; Morphinomania, etc. ; Toxicology. Antig'aiactOgrOg'Ues. — Medicines which decrease the milk secretion, e.g. bella- donna, potassium iodide (doubtful). Antikamnia.—A proprietary medicine, said to contain antifebrin, and acting in the same manner. See Antifebrin. AntiiySSin.—A substance formed in the blood of an animal which has been immunised against a disease ; it antagonises the lyssins, and so the alexins are able to act upon the bacteria. See Immunity. Antimetropia.—An anomaly of refrac- tion ; myopia of one eye and hypermetropia of the other. See Eefraction. Antimony also Toxicology ; Cholera, Epidemic {Diagnosis); Dermatitis Traumatica ET Venenata ; Prescribing ; Pharmacology).— Antimony is always used in the form of one of its salts, the metal itself being unsuitable on account of its insolubility. The only compound of real importance is Antimonium Tartaratum, the Potassio Tartarate of Antimony, known as Tartar Emetic. It consists of colourless ciystals soluble 1 in 17 of cold and 1 in 3 of boiling water. Dose—gr. (diaphoretic); ^-1 gr. (cardiac depressant); 1-2 grs. (emetic). Pre- paration—Vinum Antimoniale. Dose—10-30 m.; 2-4 drs. (emetic). Antimonii Oxidwm, an insoluble greyish-white powder, is occasionally employed. Dose—1-2 grs. Preparation—■ Pulvis Antimonialis, consisting of 2 parts of calcium phosphate and 1 part of the oxide. Antimonium Sulpjhuratum is also insoluble. It is contained in Pil. Hydrarg. Subchlor. Co. Antimonimn Nigrum Purificatum, the purified sulphide, is never used. The therapeutic uses of the antimonial com- pounds are becoming steadily fewer. An oint- ment of tartar emetic was in great vogue formerly as a counter-irritant; but it causes very severe pain, and has no particular advantages. The emetic action of Antimonium Tartaratum is due almost entirely to direct irritation of the gastric mucosa. Emesis does not occur until 15 or 20 minutes after administration, and is accompanied by general depression. It is there- fore rarely selected as an emetic. It is of real value, however, in the early stages of chills, fevers, and acute catarrhs, especially when these are associated with a full, strong pulse in a robust patient. In bronchitis and laryngitis tartar emetic in small doses, say g-\jth gr. every hour, has the double effect of depressing the circulation and producing a free flow of secretion. For this purpose, however, it has been to a large extent superseded by ipecacuanha. It is par- ticularly recommended at the onset of acute gastro-intestinal catarrhs in children, and should be given in frequent small doses, well diluted. Antimony is an uncertain diuretic, and is unsuit- able for this purpose, because of its irritant effect on the kidneys. A n t i n e r* V i n.—A proprietary medicine said to contain antifebrin, ammonium bromide, and sodium salicylate ; antipyretic and analgesic. AntinOSin.—A compound of sodium and nosophen ; tetra-iodo-phenol-phthalein; an ex- ternal antiseptic. Antiparasitic.—Destructive to para- sites, especially those affecting the skin; parasiticidal. See Skin, Parasites. Anti period iCS. — The medicinal anti- pyretics, which have received the divisional name of antiperiodics, exhibit a much more specialised action than the other members of the larger group. Their distinguishing feature