ALOPECIA 110 area of baldness commencing at the vertex. It is in the case of this variety of alopecia that the central longitudinal crest of hair is most frequently left. It is often noticed that a finer and less pigmented growth of hair takes the place of that already shed, which in its turn also disappears, till complete baldness results. After advancing for a certain period this form of the disease often stops, while the hair on the lateral aspects of the scalp remains quite thick and of normal colour. There can be little doubt that many of the cases of premature baldness are the result of xehorrhoea of more or less severity. Very often it is a sharp attack of seborrhoea capitis at about the age of twenty or twenty-five which is the starting-point of the troul)le, and usually other symptoms of seborrhoea, such as pityriasis, greasy skin, over-sweating, or even dermatitis seborrhoi'ca, are also present. In such cases the loss of hair during the first few weeks is excessive, but as the seborrhceic process diminishes, the loss of hair becomes less and may cease altogether. Other Varieties of Alopecia.—There are certain cases in which no symptoms of distinct sehorrhcea can be distinguished, though the actual loss of hair may be even greater than in the seborrhoeic variety. Little is known of the etiology of this non-seborrhceic alopecia, except that it fre- quently seems to occur in families. In families who have the tendency to premature alopecia of this form the females may be as severely aft'ected as the males. The prospect of recovery of the hair varies considerably in the group of cases of premature alopecia referred to. If the loss of hair is associated with seborrhoea, the prospect of the hair growing, at any rate to some extent, is good if the latter disease can be rapidly checked, but in cases of seborrhoea of long duration, when the hair papillse have become atrophied, and especially in the non-seborrhceic variety, the prospect of regaining the hair is very slight. Alopecia maj^ arise also as tlie result of many forms of disease, and is temporary or permanent, rapid in its onset or gradual, according to the nature of the predisposing malady. It arises very commonly as the result of severe illness, especially of the infective fevers, such as enteric. It is very usual as the result of erysipelas, especially if the inflammatory process has affected the hairy regions such as the scalp. In such cases the recovery of hair is often very rapid. Occasionally, however, a condition of slight chronic inflammation of the skin, accom- panied by pityriasis, persists, which delays the recovery of the hair, and which may itself become a cause of baldness. Gradual alopecia is common in many forms of chronic and debilitating disease, such as in pulmonary tuberculosis, diabetes mellitus, myx- oedema, etc. The influence of the nervous system on the nutrition of the hair papillae is occasionally shown in cases of sudden, universal or local alopecia following mental anxiety or sudden shocks. Localised inflammations of the skin frequently result in loss of hair with temporary or perma- nent baldness. Thus, it occurs especially on the scalp in cases of impetigo, eczema, psoriasis, trichophytosis, etc. In such cases the perma- nence of the baldness depends, as a rule, upon the amount of destruction of the hair follicles which is produced, and this effect is most common when suppurative folliculitis occurs, e.g. as the result of trichophytic infection of the scalp. Such diseases as lupus erythematosus, folliculitis decalvans (necrotica), and affections producing ulceration of the surface, such as tuberculosis of the skin, syphilis, and leprosy, naturally cause baldness, as the result of the destruction and cicatrisation of the skin which they produce. The various forms of sclerodermia produce baldness of a special character, which may be distinguished by the characteristic alterations in the appearance and texture of the skin which are present. In the case of the scalp the form of sclerodermia usually seen is the localised sclerodermia (morphoea), which may be observed to occur in the areas of nervous distribution in a very characteristic manner. Syphilis is a frequent cause of baldness. It may do this on account of its debilitating effects as a general constitutional disease, or it may produce the effect by its local manifestations. The baldness so produced may be permanent, as when atrophy or cicatrices of the skin result. A peculiar variety of localised baldness is not infrequently seen in the course of syphilis, with- out visible signs of inflammation of the skin : and this condition may closely simulate the baldness of alopecia areata. It may usually be distinguished, however, by the absence of definite linritation of the patches, by the tendency to diffuse alopecia which usually coexists, by the retention of the normal texture of the skin owing to the persistence of the hair follicles, by con- sidering the history of the case, and frequently on account of the rapidity with which the hair recovers on anti-syphilitic treatment. General alopecia is a rare affection, the etiology of which is practically unknown. Usually be- tween the ages of eighteen and twenty-five there is a general loss of hair over the whole surface, so that in the course of a few months the body is deprived of hair even to the destruction of the fine lanugo-hairs. In perhaps the majority of the cases a few weak, slightly pigmented, hairs may remain on certain parts of the body, so that while the scalp, the face, and the greater part of the trunk may be quite bare, occasional hairs may be seen in the axillae and on the pubic region. Occasionally also lanugo may remain here and there on the trunk. It is usual in