240 APHASIA of special sense (the ear and the eye); it should not include mere defects of intelligence, defects of pantomime, nor mere defects of articulation. Provided that these points are kept in view, there is rarely any difficulty in deciding whether the speech defects in any particular case of nervous disease are actually aphasic or not. Anatomical Diagnosis.—The position of the lesion which is the cause of the aphasia can usually be determined with considerable ac- curacy. Except in rare instances, there is no difficulty in deciding whether the lesion is situated in the left or the right hemisphere of the brain by ascertaining and observing: (1) whether the patient is right-handed or left- handed (this is of first importance); and (2) whether the associated cerebral symptoms of a non-aphasic kind (motor paralysis, hemianajs- thesia, hemianopsia, etc.) are right-sided or left- sided. Having determined that the lesion is in the left or the right hemisphere of the brain, we have next to determine whether the chief (the primary or initial) speech disturbance is indica- tive of a lesion of the auditory speech centre, the motor-vocal speech centre, or the visual speech centre. A correct conclusion on this point can generally (though not invariably) be arrived at by a careful analysis of the speech defects which are present. The further diagnostic question, whether the lesion is cortical or subcortical, can also in many cases be determined with considerable accuracy. (See the points of difference between the cortical and subcortical varieties of word- deafness, motor-vocal aphasia, and word-blind- ness respectively, which have already been detailed.) Pathological Diagnosis. — The following questions have, if possible, to be determined : (1) Whether the aphasia is the result of functional derangement or organic disease; (2) if due to functional derangement, what is the exact nature of the functionalt disurbance; and (3) if due to organic disease, what is the exact nature of the organic lesion. These questions involve the differential diagnosis of the various functional conditions and organic lesions which may cause aphasia (cerebral embolism, cerebral thrombosis, cerebral htemorrhage, hysteria, migraine, etc.). For a discussion of the sub- ject the reader is referred to other parts of this work. Prognosis Since the conditions which are included under the term aphasia are merely symptoms, the prognosis as regards the risk of death, the risk of recurrence of the lesion, etc., has to be based upon the nature of the lesion which is the cause of the aphasia, the severity of that lesion in the particular case, and the numerous factors which go to form the personal equation. (See the functional derangements and organic lesions which may produce aphasia in other sections of this work.) The prognosis as regards the aphasic symptoms jjer se has to be guided, in the Jirst place, by the consideration whether the aphasia is due merely to a functional derangement, or whether it is due to an organic lesion (this is a question of diagnosis); and if the aphasia is the result of organic disease, (a) the nature of the lesion, (b) the severity of the lesion, and (c) the capabilities or probabilities of compensa- tion. In trying to determine these questions a variety of considerations, amongst which the following are of most importance, have to be taken into account, viz. the age and general vitality of the patient; the condition of his cerebral tissues, and especially of his cerebral arteries; the nature of the lesion which is the cause of the aphasia (whether embolism, syphilitic thrombosis, atheromatous thrombosis, cerebral hfemorrhage, cerebral tumour, cerebral abscess, etc.); the form of the aphasia (word- deafness, for example, is probably in most cases more easily recovered from than word-blindness); the severity of the aphasia; the length of time which the aphasic symptoms have lasted, and the degree of improvement which has already taken place; the cortical or subcortical nature of the lesion (as a rule, the prognosis, as regards the aphasia itself, is more favourable in the subcortical than in the cortical forms); the effects of treatment; the presence or absence of associated lesions (in the heart, kidneys, etc.). Treatment In cases of aphasia two objects have to be kept in view, viz. : (1) the treatment of the functional derangement or organic lesion on which the aphasic condition dejxnds,—this, which is by far the most important object, has to be guided by the nature of the cause of the aphasia (see the treatment of the various functional conditions and organic lesions which may cause aphasia, as set forth in other parts of this work); and (2) the treatment of the aphasic condition itself. Since the different conditions which are grouped together under the common term aphasia may be regarded as paralyses of the sensory or motor speech mechanisms, the same principles which guide the treatment in ordinary cases of motor and sensory paralyses should be carried out. The cause of the aphasia (paralysis) must if possible be removed, the general health must be brought into the best possible state of efficiency, and every effort must be made to restore the function of the damaged parts, and to promote compensation and the restoration of the speech function by training and developing the function of the corresponding speech centres on the non-active ("non-driving") side of the brain. In cases of complete and total aphasia the patient is, as we