BOILS AND CARBUNCLE 425 of septic absorption, or of septic tiiroiubosis and einbolisui. Tlic older term " anthrax " shoidd never be applied to this condition, but confined in use to the specific bacillary disease. Synijitoms (tmJ course.—A carbuncle begins as a flattened induration of the skin and under- lying- tissue, which is always accompanied from the first by an exaggerated sensation of tension and by dull throbbing pain in the part. The skin becomes a dusky pui'plisli colour, the pain increases, and the inflammation, unless checked, rapidly infiltrates more and more widely the surrounding tissues. Concomitantly constitu- tional symptoms develojj; great prostration, weakness of pulse, peculiar sallowness of com- plexion, and, in severer cases, rigors and high temperature. After five or six days vesicles or small pustules form on different parts of the surface, ;uid emit, on lireaking, a small quantity of sanious purulent discharge. Through these gradually enlarging openings in the TUKlermined skin may be seen the peculiar ashen-grey sloughs; and, if the case be allowed to run its natxu-al course, these openings coalesce and form a large ragged ulcer, the floor of which is covered with dense adherent portions of necrosed tissue. These slowly separate, and healing takes place by granulation. Diu'ing this often tedious pro- cess the patient may sink from exhatistion, or the graver symptoms of septicaemia may super- vene, and rapidly lead to a fatal issue. A form of carbuncle occurring about the lips has been specially described as malixpiant facial carlmncle; l)ut as it differs from the oi'dinary variety only in the accident of situation and of great local vascularity it does not re(piire separate con- sideration. Treatment. — Early and radical treatment otters the best chance of recovery. In the first stages, when the pain is severe, the inflamma- tion spreading, and bogginess has not yet succeeded to brawniness, glycerine and bella- donna may be applied underneath hot fomenta- tions. As soon, however, as any points of softening can be detected, or any pin-hole <^)penings form, they should be fully incised, the contents thoroughly scraj)ed and cut away, and the exposed tissues freely swabbed with pure carbolic acid. In this way each centre of in- fectif)n is in turn thoroughly cleansed, free vent is given to the discharge, and the pain is im- mediately and effectually relieved. The best dressing at first is sterilised muslin wrung out of hot boric solution and frequently renewed. When the sloughs have sepai-ated and healthy granulations form, the process of healing will be facilitated by drawing the edges together with circumferential strapping. Besides local measures, the patient's general condition nnist be carefully watched, and strength maintained liy suitable nourishment. Stimulants are generally required, and are best given in the form of egg-flip; and tonics, such as quinine and annnonia, should be regularly adujinistered. Total extirpation of the carbuncle l)y excision has been practised with successful results ; but in milder cases it is not re(iuired, and in more extensive cases might possibly add to the gravity of the prognosis. Treatment with anti-strepto- coccic serinn has been tried, but as it is founded on a false pathology it is difficult to see how the improvement claimed can have lieen otherwise than accidental, except in cases where a general infection has been grafted on a local one. How- ever, it is possible that in the ever-widening development of serum-therapy a reliable remedy for this condition may eventually be found. Bolus.—A large jiill-likc mass; a confection. See Pkescuihixo. Bombay Fever. — Bastard typhoid fever. See Tiiui'ics, iiiE Unclasseu Fevers ()V 'I IIE. Bone, Diseases of. See also Achonhhui'i.asia ; Acromegaly ; AcTixoMYCosis; AuLirroRY Nerve and Laby- rinth {JSone-Conduction); Burns and Scalus {BuniH of the Sixth Deijree); Deformities ; Ear, Exajiinatiox of ( Wafch Text) ; 1^'racture« ; Fragiijtas Ossiu.m ; (Jout ; Heah {Shaj>e); Hydatid Disease; Insanity, Pathology of; Leprosy ; Lungs, Vascular Disorders {Fat Eviholi); MALiNGEiiiN(i (Diseases of Bones') ; Osteo-Arthropathies ; Osteomalacia; Preg- nancy, Physiology of (Changes in Bone); Kheu- MAi'isM ; Rickets ; Senile Insanity (Brittleness rjf Bones); Scurvy, Infantile (Morbid Anatomy); Spine, Surgical Affections of ; Syphilis ; Syringomyelia ; Tares i,)oRSALis; Trades, DAXciEROUs (Phosphorus Boiseming) ; Tuber- culosis (Bones and Joints) ; Typhoid Fever (Complications and Sei/ne/a^) ; Ulcers (Bo7ie Changes); ITrixe, Pathological Changes (Bone Diseases). The diseases vf bone may Ije classified as follows :— L Bacterial diseases— l^yogenic. Tuberculous. Syphilitic. 2. Parasitic diseases— .Actinomycosis. Mycetoma. Hydatid Cysts, '{'rophic diseases— Including Rickets, Scurvy-Rickets, Osteomalacia, Osteitis deformans, Leontiasis ossia, Fi"agilitas ossium, and other lesions in diseases of the nervous system. 4. Tumours and Cysts. The first and fourth of these will be described in the present article. The parasitic and trophic