BONE, DISEASES OF 448 ing any sequestrum and some of the sclerosed bone round about. Where there is merely hyperostosis and sclerosis of the bone, with severe pain which does not yield to blisters, the thickened periosteum may be encised and the sclerosed bone perforated with a drill, gouge, or trephine. In rapidly breaking down gummatous disease in the nose or palate, which is often so persistent, and which results in serious deformity, surgical removal of the affected tissues may check the progress of the disease and lead to recovery. In the case of the nose, the author has carried this out by splitting the nose in the middle line, removing the infected parts, and scrubbing the raw tissues with pure carbolic acid; the wound is then dusted with iodoform and stuffed with gauze. Lesions op the Bones in Inherited Syphilis. —The bones are more often affected in the in- herited than in the acquired disease. As a result of the infection being inherited there are certain lesions of the skeleton, especially during the earliest months of infancy, which do not occur in the acquired disease. Further, those which are common to the acquired and inherited types present certain peculiarities both in their progress and in their results, because the bones affected are engaged in growth, and have not attained maturity. The individual lesions will only be briefly referred to in this place, as they will be described in the general article on in- herited syphilis. During the earliest months of life the infant may present— 1. A porous friable enc7'ustation or irregular layer of osteophytic neiv growth on the periosteal surfaces of the shafts of the long hones ; this con- dition is only recognised clinically in the super- ficial bones of an emaciated infant. Whether it is not partly or entirely the result of coexist- ing rickets is open to question; the same doubt has been thrown on the two following lesions. 2. A similar encrustation of new hone on the outer surface of the flat hones of the skull, especially along the sutures. If this take place along either side of the sagittal suture, the latter appears as a furrow or cleft between the bosses on the parietal bones; the so-called nateforra skull. Or the new formation of the bone may be arranged symmetrically around the anterior fontanelle, giving rise to an appearance which has been compared to that of a hot cross bun. The new bone is at first very vascular and spongy, but may become dense and hard. They are recognised clinically as firm rounded bosses or elevations, and are known as Parrot's nodes. The centres of ossification of the bones usually escape. More rarely there may be a diffuse sclerosis of the entire skull, with or without premature imion of the sutures and arrested growth of the skull. 3. A condition known as Craniotabes, in which the osseous tissue is absorbed in limited and usually multiple areas and the cranial bones revert to their primary membranous condition. It is chiefly observed in the occipital region, and is recognised clinically by the dimpling of the skull in the areas involved under the pressure of the finger as if it con- sisted of thin cardboard. Its occasional inde- pendence of rickets is maintained ; where due to syphilis alone, it recovers under mercurial treatment. 4. A condition at the ends of the long bones known as syphilitic ep)iphysitis or osteo-chondritis syphilitica. It is usually met with in infants from one to three months old. It essentially consists in the formation of a soft semi-fluid granulation tissue of a yellowish colour, which replaces the spongy bone at the ossifying junction, and causes a certain degree of swelling or bulging at the junction of the shaft with the epiphysis. This swelling is smooth and globular ; it may be chiefly on one aspect or surround the junc- tion like a collar or ring. The affected limb hangs inert, and is incapable of voluntary move- ment. Hence it has been called syphilitic pseudo-paralysis. The reaction of the muscles is not impaired. The foot assumes the attitude of equino-varus, the hand is pronated and flexed. It may affect one ossifying junction or several simultaneously. It may result in jjartial dis- placement and mobility at the ossifying junction; this is not attended with actual crepitus, but an. obscure grating may be elicited. Curious mal- positions of the limbs may result from epiphy- sitis with partial displacement, which may be accompanied by irregular or stunted growth from interference with the ossification. The adjacent joint may be filled with fluid. Suppuration only occurs if there is superadded pyogenic infection. Recovery takes place if early treatment is. instituted ; this includes that of syphilis and immobilisation of the limb. The lesion is diagnosed from the swellings at the ossifying jmictions in rickets, by its occur- ring before the age of six months, by the swelling being less uniform and less symmetrical, by the absence of the rickety rosary, and by the improvement which follows the exhibition of mercury. 5. Other and rarer lesions. The ilium, scapula, and vertebrae may present similar changes to those described in the long bones, both in relation to their epiphysial junctions and on their periosteal surfaces. A condition oifragilitas ossinm has been described, in which there may be one or more greenstick fractures from slight violence, with little or no attempt at union. In the ribs, at the junction of the anterior and middle thirds, the bone may be replaced by a gelatinous marrow of a trans- parent yellow colour; this may result in their spontaneous fracture.