BALNEOLOGY organs, simply as vehicles for the external ad- ministration of di-ugs. But chronic maladies— the various conditions met with in those seek- ing treatment at the health resorts—are the proper field of balneo-therapeutics. Following the order adopted in a previous section, the use of baths will be considered in affections of the skin and circulatory organs, in disorders of nutrition and elimination, and in affections of the nervous system. L Skin Affections.—Many connnon func- tional abnormalities of the skin are favoiu-ably affected by a course of baths. The inactive, tori)id, and often chilly skin is stimulated by brief hot baths (from 105° ¥. upwards), and by alternating hot and cold douches. When the glands are obstructed and epidermis accumu- lated, hot-air or vapour baths are indicated. For the ill-nourished cachectic skin, and the dry, papery, atrophic skin of the old, warm soft-water baths, and especially sulphur and alkaline baths, are helpful, and the massage- douche at a temperate heat. The same baths may be prescribed in pruritus. The use of sulphur waters both internally and externally is pecidiarly appropriate to skin affections. Psoriasis and ichthyosis may be relieved by hot sulphur baths, by hot air and vapour and by prolonged subthermal baths. Most forms of eczema are benefited by baths. If the eruption be recent and moist the alkaline or sulphur bath at an indifferent temperature is indicated. With localised and dry eczemas a more stimu- lating and hotter bath can be used. Eczema, acne, furunculosis, and other conditions of the skin dependent upon underlying disorders are equally amenable to this class of remedies, but often exhibit temporary exacerbations under their use. 2. Affections of the Caudio - Vascular System.—(a) The chilly skin, the common con- dition of contracted cutaneous vessels, usually associated with catarrh (or indigestion), deficient oxidation and want of bodily heat. The natural distribution of the blood is disturbed and the action of the heart is usually languid. Stimu- lating thermal treatment is here indicated, such as hot peat baths or thermal douches with massage, or hot air. (b) Irregular vaso-motor conditions, such as those met with at the menopause. Temperate and subthermal baths exert an equalising and sedative influence not only on the peripheral circulation but also on the nervous centres. (c) Sub-inflammatory states of the small sub- cutaneous veins and connective tissues common in gouty persons. Any stimulating thermal treatment, especially if combined with massage, may readily induce inflammatory stasis with patches of phlebitis and painful swellings. Eliminative treatment is usually indicated, by waters or otherwise, and only sedative baths or applications are permissible. (d) Heart affections. — A clear distinction must be made between existing morbid con- ditions of the endo- or myo-cardium and signs which are merely evidences of hyr/one disease. Wherever indications are presented of existing heart affection of any kind, much care is requisite in the use of baths, both as regards temperature and duration. In structural heart disease, the heat of the bath should seldom equal that of the blood and never exceed it. L] such cases, balneary treatment is essentially subthermal {i.e. from 80° to 98° F.), and can be effectually carried out by more than one pro- cedure. One of the best is the subthermal douche at low pressure, without the excitement of impact, and accompanied by skilled super- ficial massage. Immersion baths at a similar temperature, whether plain or muriated, or muriated and gaseous as at Nauheim, have essentially the same effect, allowing for differ- ence of posture. (See Section III. " Gaseous Muriated Baths.") All baths, whatever the temperature reading may be, that give the patient the sensation of heat must be avoided. An attendant should always be present through- out, and the physician should observe for him- self, at all events the effects of the first bath, in eveiy case. The employment of surface massage with the douche and the use of carbonated gaseous brines for the immersion bath, by reason of the continuous peripheral stimulation they produce, enable comparatively low tem- peratures, from 95° down to 85° and even 82° F., to be readily borne without sensation of cold. During the bath the pulse should become stronger and slower, and the breathing deeper. If at any time it begins to accelerate, the breath- ing becomes embarrassed, or the facial colour changes, the bath must be discontinued. Grave injury is done by overheating the patient in these cases. No hot packs, close dressing- rooms, or the slightest subsequent fatigue are permissible. Chronic rheumatic or gouty carditis, commencing degeneration and dilata- tion, with or without valvular affection, aortic or mitral; weak, frequent, and irregular action from overloaded and embarrassed right ven- tricle, and many phases of disordered innerva- tion and faulty nutrition, the results of anasmia or debilitating illness, are sometimes notabl}' benefited by a suitable course of baths if these rules are duly observed. 3. Disorders op Nutrition and Elimina- tion.—Both waters and baths are favourable to elimination, for it is among their primary and most familiar effects to stimulate the ex- cretory activity of the kidneys and the skin. It has been already seen that cold and sub- thei'mal baths and douches affect nutrition by increasing tissue change and oxidation. For particular failures of elimination and specific defects of nutrition in the various tissues balneo- therapeutics provide a variety of treatment, the