BRAIN—ATROPHY, HYPERTROPHY, CYSTS, INFLAMMATIONS 503 inflammation, but if very acute, is inevitably fatal. The treatment is much the same as for men- ingitis : rest, sedatives, cold, or coiuiter-irritation to the head, purgation, and especially the use of calomel. For very acute cases the sick-i-oom should be kept darkened, ice-bags to the head, and bleeding or leeching is of service Tinless in very antemic patients. Antipyrin, salicylates, and quinine have been recommended, and also large doses of calomel. Antisyphilitic remedies should be ordered in suitable cases, and such sedatives as bromides, hyoscine, and other opiates are frequently useful. Chronic Encephalitis Any of the acute forms described already may become chronic, and as the membranes often suffer along with the brain, the term meningo- encephalitis has sometimes been used, and especially for the more chronic foi-ms. There are probably many forms of encephalitis which are chronic, such as the encephalitis found in the neighbourhood of tumours, and it is possible that in some cases of cerebral sclerosis there may be an inflammatory element in the patches so affected. Where brain substance has been com- pressed by a hjemorrhage it undergoes hardening, and the connective tissue in it increases in amount at the expense of nerve- elements proper, and this has been thought to be a chronic inflammatory process, although it is very doubtful. There is no reason to doubt that sclerotic patches, such as may occur, although rarely, in syphilis, are of inflammatory origin, and are in fact a chronic encephalitis. Such cases have been described by Charcot, Gombault, and others. In general paralysis of the insane there is a chronic inflammation of the membranes, includ- ing the ependyma of the ventricle, with, in addition, a superficial chronic encephalitis. The clinical features require no special reference here, and the treatment must lie on general lines. Operative Measures .... 504 Preparatory ..... 505 Details op Operation .... 505 Injuries of the Brain .... 509 Concussion . . . . . .510 Contusion . . . . . .510 Compression . . . . . .511 Intracranial Hemorrhage (Surgical) . 514 Cerebral Tumours . . . .516 Intracranial Inflammation . . . 517 1. Extradthral. . . . .517 2. Leptomeningitis . . . .518 3. Cerebral Abscess . . . .519 4. Infective Thrombosis of Venous Sinuses . . . . .520 Epilepsy ...... 521 Hernia Cerebri ..... 523 Cephalocele ...... 523 In dealing with cases of disease or injury to the brain it is necessary not only to diagnose the nature of the disease or injury, but also its exact situation. Unfortunately there is still a con- siderable part of the brain the exact functions of which are not understood, and this remark applies particularly to the right hemisphere; PAR. OCC. Fio. 1.—Diagram to indicate i lissure of Sylvius (SL), tin cerebelli to tho inside of tl Brain, Surgery of. Introductory Cerebro-cranial Topography 503 504 nethods for finding the position of the fissure of Rolando (PR), the : parieto-occipital fissure, and the line of attachment of the tentorium ifi skull. Init of late years, owing to the researches of Ferrier and others, we have become cognisant of the relation between certain areas of the brain and the parts of the body which they control. These areas have been ma|3ped out on the brain by experimental and clinical research, and as the result of post-mortem observation, and do