114 ALOPECIA The treatment of alopecia areata is carried out on similar principles to those already noted. It is very important to use anti-seborrhoeic treat- ment vigorously in the majority of the cases of the disease, and frequently the best results will be obtained when using sulphur or resorcin, or a combination of these. The " stimulant" treatment has been especially vigorously used in this affection, even to the extent of repeated blistering of the scalp, but there is little doubt that more harm than good is likely to be done by such methods. The counter-irritation should not proceed beyond the rubefacient stage. In hospital practice the use of the lin. terebinthinae aceticum, to which may be added acet. canthar- idis, from ,")]• to 5ij- to the gj., proves very satisfactory; similar preparations made with greater pharmaceutical elaboration may also be employed. The use of jaborandi is stated to have produced good results in certain cases of alopecia areata. The tincture is used internally, commencing with small doses, and increasing to the limit of tolerance of the patient; but better effects seem to be attained by the hypodermic injection of the salts of pilocarpine (hydro- chloride, nitrate, salicylate) into or near the affected areas. The treatment is commenced by using -g^yth of a grain in each injection, and the amount of the alkaloid is gradually increased till the full physiological action of the drug is produced. [The value of the X-rays in the treatment of alopecia is not yet fully established; for, while some dermatologists have obtained a high per- centage of cures, others regard the rays as uncertain in their action or as no better than other methods of treatment.] Alpha Rays. See Radium. AlphOS.—A variety of vitiligo, or (some- times) psoriasis. AlphOSiS.—Albinism or achromia (q-v.). AISOl.—Aluminium acetotartrate, an astrin- gent and a disinfectant (1% solution), used as a substitute for carbolic acid, etc. Alston ia.—The bark of the Alstonia scholaris and constricta, used, in the form of infusion and tincture, as an anthelmintic, but more often as an astringent in the treatment of dysentery and chronic diarrhoea; official in India and Australia. Alteratives.—Alteratives are medicines which change, generally by improving, the nutrition of the body, without producing any perceptible alterations in the nature of its fluids and solids. Prominent examples of substances acting in this ill-defined way are the iodides, the sulphides, the chlorides, mercury, antimony, arsenic, potassium, phosphorus and the hypo- phosphites, colchicum, guaiacum, and sarsa- parilla. It has been surmised that they cause their effects by influencing the finer parts of the process of metabolism, such as the activity of ferments in the tissues and the reaction of the tissues to the ferments (Lauder Brunton). The absorption of fibrinous deposits and of glandular swellings is a well-known result of the action of such alteratives as mercury and the iodides, and arsenic produces a real but inexplicable effect upon chorea, neuralgia, and skin diseases, while colchicum and potash benefit gout. See Absorbents ; and under the various Diseases, such as Syphilis ; Skin, Affections OF; etc. Alum. — A double sulphate, usually of aluminium and potassium, but also of aluminium and ammonium, etc.; kaolin and Fuller's earth are native aluminium silicates, powdered and purified, and used as dusting powders; alum itself acts as a protective covering and astrin- gent to broken surfaces (ulcers), as a haemostatic, and also as a mild caustic, and, given internally, it is a useful astringent mouth-wash and gargle in aphthous stomatitis and pharyngitis, and in large doses is an emetic (non-depressant). Dose, 5 to 10 grs. Aluminium.—A metallic element, light, malleable, and ductile; many of its compounds, such as the oxide (alumina), the sulphates (alum), the acetotartrate, the salicylate, the chloride, the citrate, and the tannate, are used medicinally, usually as astringents and anti- septics. AluminOSiS.—A disease, usually bron- chitis followed by cirrhosis of the lungs, attack- ing workers in aluminium and its compounds. Alumnol.—A compound containing silver and aluminium; used locally as an antiseptic in dermatology and gynecology (gonorrhoea). Alveolar Abscess.—.See Mouth, In- juries AND Diseases of the Jaw ; Teeth {Alve- olar Abscess). Alypin.—A substitution preparation for cocaine. It is easily soluble, and it can be sterilised by boiling, so it is specially useful for the production of local anaesthesia by the infiltration method; and it does not cause the sensation of burning which /3-eucaine does. It is claimed for it that it does not produce mydriasis, paralysis of accommodation, or ischaemia, and that it does not affect the psychical condition, as does cocaine. The dos- age is approximately the same as for cocaine. Amalfi.—See Therapeutics, Health Re- sorts (Italian Lakes). Amanitin. — The poisonous principle, alkaloidal or glucosidal, of the genus Amanita of the mushrooms. See Toxicology {Fungi).