ANESTHESIA 139 size of the pupil undei' that ana-sthetic be of much service as a guide to the degree of nar- cotism. The reflexes are gradually lost, and when the ocular reflex has disappeared all sen- sation has gone. Knee, ankle, and wrist clonus may develop or grow intensified in slight, but usually disappear in deep, narcosis. For rectal operations it is well to push the anaesthesia to a deeper degree, since reflex interference with respiration pei'sists for some time when the stimulation is caused by the operation {e.f/. dilatation of the sphincter) in this region. Many surgeons urge this fact as a reason for pre- feiTing ether to chloroform in such cases, since the deeper degree of unconsciousness is ab- solutely safe under the former anrcsthetic. The passage of the patient beyond the third degree of anaesthesia is attended with grave risks. The gradual dilatation of the pupils, slowing and weak- ening of the respiration, duskiness of the mucous membranes ancl skin, and steady fall of blood pressure with enfeeblement of the heart-beat, all give evidence of the involvement and poison- ing of those centres in the medulla oblongata which control the mechanism of respiration and circulation. It is this degree of narcosis (4th of Snow), when the tissues are saturated with the antes- thetic, and all the vital processes are rapidly passing into abeyance, which, if unchecked, rapidly culminates in death. A convulsion marks the final (or fifth degree of narcosis), the medullary centres cease to exert any control, respiration stops, and almost immediately the circulation is stayed, and death irrevocably occurs. The sphincters relax, extrusion of fieces, urine, and semen occur in the final con- vulsion, the pupils are widely dilated and in- sensitive to light. Chloroform. — An essential difference, as pointed out above, exists between chloroform and ether. The former, being a protoplasmic poison of great power, not only produces the changes just mentioned as occurring during the procession of narcosis through its paralysing action upon the nervous system, an action which is connnon to it and all other general anaesthetics, but exerts a distinct and profomid eff'ect upon all the tissues with which it is brought into contact. Thus the vitality of the constituent elements of the muscular and of the nervous tissues appears from the first to become depressed, as evinced by the lessened contractibility and irritability. We have there- fore, in estimating the influence of the narcotic, to consider not only the actual degree of nar- cotism, but also the extent of the action of the chloroform upon the tissues themselves. This is an important factor in the healthy, but vastly more so in the individual whose tissues are diseased or degenerated antecedently to their being subjected to the influence of chloroform. If, for example, in a normal animal luider chloroform in the fourth degree of narcotism, artificial respiration is connuenced as soon as the natural rhythm of Vireathing is impaired, resuscitation may occur, but if the tissues have V)een subjected to the action of chloroform up to a certain point the recovery becomes impossible, as the vitality of the tissues is too much lowered. Under ether the narcotism of the respiratory centre is practically the same as that produced by alcohol, and cessation of respiration due to it is always remediable by artificial respiration. As soon as the ether vapour is expelled by this means from the organism, the tissues resume their usual tone. We are excluding, of course, secondary effects such as pulmonary oedema, condensation of vapoiu' in the bronchi, etc. It is then a matter of practical importance to learn what such tissue changes brought about by the chloroform are, and what they amount to, in order that we may later on inquire how they may best be obviated. Let us consider muscle. It is easily seen if the nerveless por- tion of the frog's heart is dealt with and sub- jected to chloroform diluted to a degree which allows the muscle to gradually become paretic by maintaining an artificial circulation througli it, it eventually stops, but as soon as the chloro- form is withdrawn it resmnes its beats. How- ever, if this is repeated, in a very short time the muscle will no longer respond, even when a solution fi'ee from chloroform is allowed to flow through it; it dies. A control experiment per- formed with ether shows that the heart muscle can practically be arrested and made to resume work again and again almost indefinitely, that is to say, it will remain iniexhausted almost as long as the heart will when perfused with circu- lating fluid. Next take nerve. Waller has shown that the irritability of isolated nerve treated by chloroform disappears seven times more rapidly than in the case of the same nerve treated with ether, and cannot again be revived. Fm-ther, in regard to involuntary muscular fibre, M'William found that the mammalian heart undergoes a gradual dilatation when the animal inhales chloroform, due to a loss of the resiliency of the heart muscle. When the chloroform is withdrawn the heart again resumes its normal size, but there is always a point beyond which, if chloroform is given, the heart muscle fails to respond. It then is thrown into a convulsion (delirium cordis) comparable to that general convulsion characterising the death-struggle of the fifth degree of narcotism. Without insisting too much upon the experiments of M'William, it is quite within the range of modern views upon this subject to say that most observers admit that some interstitial changes in the myocardium of the nature of a degeneration occurs mider chloroform. The tonus of the arterial nniscles also becomes profoundly altered inider ansesthesia, and far more markedly so under chloroform.