450 BONE, DISEASES OF but the chondroma, osteoma, and sarcoma may be multiple from the outset. Regarding the etiology of tumours of bone it is worthy of remark that they may follow upon injuries, and that they are specially liable to develop in situations, i.e. in the region of the ossifying junction, in which there may have occurred some irregularity in the process of ossification, and in which residues of the tissues concerned in the process may have remained iniused and in an embryonic and unstable condition. Primary Tumours : Osteoma. — The true osteoma or bony tumour is to be differentiated from the new formations of l)one which may result from irritation or inflammation, and from abnormal ossifications, e.g. those occurring in muscles, tendons, etc. The osteoma is very much more commonly periosteal than central. It is called an exostosis when it projects from the surface of a bone. Those derived directly from the tissues of the periosteum may be described as membranoxis exostoses, e.g. those of the skull; they are often dense or compact like ivory, and are covered only by the fibrous layer of the periosteum. When derived from hyaline cartilage they are known as cartilaginous exostoses, e.g. those at the ends of the long bones of the limbs ; the latter resemble normal bone in structure, and are covered or invested with a layer or cap of cartilage from which they may continue to grow until the growth of the skeleton is com- pleted. Because of their spongy or medullated structure they may be described as cancellous exostoses. The hyaline cartilage from which they develop may result from a metaplasia of the tissues of the periosteum; more commonly it is derived from remains of the epiphysial cartilage or of the original cartilage of the embryo. Exostoses are usually rounded tumours of limited size, sometimes pedunculated or mush- room-shaped ; their free surface is smooth or nodulated. Cartilaginous exostoses in the vicinity of joints may be invested with a synovial sac or bursa {exostosis bursata), de- rived either from the synovial membrane of the adjacent joint with which its cavity may communicate, or of adventitious origin. It has been observed to contain cartilaginous loose bodies. Clinicalli/ the osteoma is met with as a hard indolent tumour, growing from a bone and fixed to it. It is usually discovered accidentally, unless it presses injuriously on adjacent struc- tures. Hence its special features vary with its situation. In the orbit it will displace the eyeball, in the nasal fosste and in the external auditory meatus it causes obstruction, which may be attended with ulceration and dis- charge, in the vicinity of a joint it may interfere with the movements of the latter, on the inner side of the knee it may prevent the patient grasping the saddle in riding; when growing from the dorsal aspect of the terminal phalanx of the great toe, it displaces the nail and may project through its matrix at the top of the toe, while the soft parts over it may be ulcerated from pressure; when growing in the vicinity of the nerves of a limb it may press on these and cause pains, cramps, and other symptoms. The diagnosis of osteoma will be arrived at from its long duration and slow growth, by its situation, and by its hardness. The X-rays may be of assistance. Treatment.—An osteoma which does not cause symptoms may be left alone. The cartilaginous varieties will cease growing at maturity; if causing symptoms they are removed by dividing the neck or base of the tumour with a strong- chisel. The dense varieties especially met with in the bones of the skull present greater difh- culties. The base or neck of the tumour is to be perforated in many directions with highly tempered drills, rotated by some form of mechani- cal engine. The mvltij-ile exostoses of the skeleton met with in childhood and youth are ossified chondromata. They are of congenital origin, and are often inherited. They correspond to the normal apophyses of bones, and have been likened to the branches of a tree. They may interfere with the growth of the skeleton; they them- selves cease growing when the latter is com- pleted. They are chiefly met with at the ends of the long Ijones which possess the most active epiphyses, i.e. in the region of the knee and at the shoulder and wrist. They may also grow from the flat bones of the trunk, e.g. scapula, pelvis. They are often symmetrical. They vary in size from a hazel-nut to a foetal head. When they originate from the ossifying junction of a long bone they may migrate along the shaft as the latter increases in length; when they originate from the region of the epiphysis itself they remain at the end of the bone. Their clinical features and treatment are the same as the solitary cartilaginovis exostosis. Chondroma.—The chondroma, which under- goes ossification, has been described under osteoma. Other chondromata are rare. It may grow from the periosteum (perichon- droma) of the scapula, ilium, ribs, long bones of the limbs, forming tumours which early project from the surface of the bone, and may attain an enormous size. Or they may grow in the in- terior of a bone, the so-called enchondroma; they may lie latent for a considerable period, replacing the old bone, while new bone is formed outside by the periosteum; further growth of the tumour results in bulging of the bone at- tended with increase in its girth; they may finally erupt through the external shell of the bone and project from its surface, with displace- ment of the overlying soft parts.