167 ANEURYSM powerful etibrts. Stateiueuts connecting special aneurysms with certain occupations—e.g. pop- liteal with postillions—are apparently mere im- pressions. 2''iiE Signs and jSyiMJ'TOMs of ANicuitYSAr.—The patient's attention is not uncommonly attracted by a sense of something snapping or giving way during an effort. More often the first symptom is pain in the part, or pain, weight, or numbness in the area of distribution of some nerve pressed upon, or a sense of weakness in a part. In other cases an imusual beating or an obvious pulsat- ing tumour is the first thing noticed; much less connnonly oedema of a distal part, as the foot. The signs of aneurysm divide themselves naturally into (1) those due to the presence of a tumour-like swelling, anrl (2) those which indicate the conununication of this swelling with an artery. 1. The tumoui"-like swelling in external aneu- rysms varies usually from the size of a marble to that of a foital head. It is romided, oval, or fusiform in outline ; hour-glass-shaped owing to consti-iction by Poupart's ligament or the cla- vicle ; lobidated from large secondary saccules. When the mass can be well grasped, it is found to be distinctly outlined, firm, tense, elastic, and ptdsating ; but its firmness varies much with the thickness of the sac and lining clot, and its tension with the blood-pressm-e. In the dia- gnosis between saccular and fusiform aneurysms, palpation is apt to be very misleading. Pressure effects.—In the process of develop- ment of an aneurysm, all the structures that can be displaced or stretched are thus affected, and when this is no longer possible, atrophy, erosion, and absorption of the compressed tissues follow. These pressure effects will naturally vary with the position of the swelling, and they ai-e important as iisually constituting the basis of the STibjective symptoms complained of. Typical pressure symptoms are specially well seen in cases of aortic aneurysm, to which article the reader is referred. In any given case the symptoms of pressure on nerves, vessels, and other tissues will be readily intelligible on con- sideration of the anatomy of the part. 2. Signs due to commimication with an artery. Sitwition.—The swelling is in the line of a main artery and cannot be so displaced from the vessel as to cause the disappearance of the signs to be noticed next. Expansile pulsation is the most characteristic sign. It is due to the alternating systolic dis- tension and diastolic contraction of the sac. It is easy to detect when the swelling can be grasped or a finger be laid upon opposite poles ; but when fingei's can be placed only close together upon a small area of the sui-face, it may be impossible to be sure that pulsation is expansile, and not due to the driving of some mass, lying on the artery, outwards between the fingers. In large sacs pulsation may be more marked at the softer, more prominent parts. A systolic thrill is not uncommonly felt, marked or faint, over the whole surface, or only at one spot. A diastolic sJtock is often felt in aneurysms at the root of the neck—like a thud /e/i. It nearly coincides with the second sound. Accentmition of the heart-sounds, especially the second, is fre- quent over the areas of these aneurysms. A systolic bruit can generally be heard in external aneurysms, varying greatly in quality and intensity ; rarely, a diastolic bruit also occurs (to-and-fro murmur). In fusiform aneurysms the bruit is often specially loud and harsh. A bruit, being due to the passage of lilood through the mouth of the sac, is most likely to be present, loud, and high-pitched when the aper- ture is small. It is heard equally all over the swelling, and moderate pressure does not increase it—as it would were the bruit due to compression of an artery lieneath some superjacent mass. Effects of Gomjn-ession.—Proximal compression of the artery stops pidsation, and the aneurysm shrinks and becomes softer; it may be rendered still smaller by direct pressure—a method of examination which may bring about embolism, and which should not be practised on the carotid, at all events. On releasing the artery, the sac regains its full size—not suddenly, but in two or three beats—often with a thrill. The soften- ing and shrinking of the sac may be taken as a measin-e of the rigidity of the wall, which is generally proportionate to the contained clot. Distal pressure increases the pulsation and tension of the sac. No examination of an aneurysm is complete without a thorough examination of the heart and great vessels, of the superficial arteries, and of the urine. It is most important to eliminate as far as may be an internal aneurysm, and to discover any other external aneurysm which may exist. Progress and Natural Terminations.—As a rule external aneurysms go pretty steadily on to one or other of their natural endings, usually rupture, rarely spontaneous cure. Halts and miexpected inqirovements may alternate with advance. 1. Rupture.—In the limbs usually and in the trunk sometimes, aneurysms tend chiefly towards the skin surface, the skin becoming thinned, red, or livid, and gradually ulcerating, when death may occur from hasmorrhage. Rupture of an aneurysm may also occur into the sin-rounding areolar tissue or into a joint, and, in the case of internal aneuiysms, into a serous cavity, into a hollow organ, or on to a free mucous surface. The symptoms of ruptured aneurysm are sudden severe pain and collapse—partly from the pain, chiefly from internal or external haemorrhage. But the size of the aperture, the