416 BLOOD, PHYSIOLOGY AND CLINICAL INVESTIGATION OF normal, an increased breaking down of leucocytes (leucolysis), or an increase in the metabolic activity of those cells accompanying the lencocy- tosis. This has been inferred from the increased P2O5 excretion in the leucocytosis after nucleic acid.^ The blood plates are markedly diminished in pernicious anaemia. Other conditions in which their numbers vary have been already re- ferred to. B. Plasma and Serum These may be taken together, as they contain to a very large extent the same constituents, the principal difference being that the fibrinogen has been removed from the plasma in the forma- tion of the serum. The three principal albu- minous substances in the plasma are the serum albumin, serum globulin, and fibrinogen. Under certain pathological conditions albumose and perhaps also true peptone may be present. The causes leading to the appearance of these two bodies are obscure. In some cases there is probably an alteration in the intestinal mucous membrane, allowing them to pass through with- out being synthetised to albumin; in others they are probably derived from pus breaking down somewhere in the body, while last of all they may be obtained from intracellular diges- tion. The most important pathological condition in which they occur in the blood is leucocy- thsemia. As emphasised in the introduction to this article, the total amount of proteids in the plasma is very constant; but the serum globulin may be increased without the albumin, or at the expense even of the latter. For example, in some forms of nephritis the ratio of albumin to globu- lin, instead of being 1 :1"5, is 1 :11'5. In these cases a large amount of albumin diffuses out through the kidneys. With increase in blood- pressure albumin passes out more I'eadily than globulin. The most important salts are carbonates, phosphates, and chlorides. The phosphates in the plasma are increased in con- ditions where there is a rise in the metabolism of the nucleated elements of the blood, as in different forms of experimental leucocytosis. Nature and Rapidity of Coagulation.— Extra-vascular Coagulation.-—When blood leaves the vessels, it is transformed within a few minutes into a more or less gelatinous coagulum. Intra-vascular clotting also occurs when the vessel walls undergo certain pathological altera- tions. It is contact with the uninjured vessel wall that prevents coagulation, as was long ago pointed out by Hewson and Briicke. Patho- logically, however, it may occur within vessels that have undergone no change, as, for example, after the action of certain agents, such as pyrogallol and the chlorates of the alkalies. There can be no doubt that changes in the leucocytes play some part in the causation of ^ Milroy and Malcolm, Journ. of Physiology, July 1898. blood-clotting. A fluid which contains fibrinogen cannot undergo coagulation imless one contain- ing leucocytes or fibrin ferment be added. Perhaps the most widespread view at the present day is that, before the transformation of fibrinogen into fibrin can occur, the leucocytes commence to break down and set free the zymogen or forerunner of the fibrin ferment. This body may be derived from either the nucleus or the cytoplasm, perhaps from the granules in the latter. It seems unnecessary that the cells should undergo an actual de- generation. In solutions of fibrinogen which contain no soluble lime salts, this zymogen is unable to act. It is important to bear in mind that the calcium salt does not act as a trans- former of soluble fibrinogen into insoluble fibrin, but of the zymogen into the true fibrin ferment. Fibrin contains no more calcium, weight for weight, than fibrinogen. It is difficult at present to define the part ivhich the red cells play in the process, but there are strong grounds in support of their active participation. Reference has already been made to the relationship that probably exists between the l)lood plates and degenerative changes in the reds, and also to the connection between the number of the former and the rate of coagula- tion. As Arnold lias pointed out, the formation of blood plates is especially well seen in the early stages of intra-vascular clotting. The rate of coagulation varies in different physiological and pathological conditions, e.g. it may be delayed to a slight or marked degree in inflammatory conditions, and also especially in scurvy and haemophilia. Usually distinct signs of fibrin formation occur one and a half minutes after the blood has been shed, but a long time elapses (12-48 hours) before complete separation of the clot and serum takes place. In some cases this separation may be very imperfect even when coagulation has not been markedly delayed, as Hayem has especially emphasised in the case of pernicious anaemia. In certain animals, such as the horse, and in pathological cases where there is delay in the process of coagulation, the clot shows an upper grey or buffy coat and a lower less compact red one, the latter composed of the heavier red cells with an interlacing fibrin network, the upper mainly of white blood-corpuscles with fibrin. The process may be prevented by not allowing the fibrin ferment to be formed, as, for example, after withdrawal of soluble lime salts by ammonium oxalate. Injection of albumose, peptone, leech extract (obtained from anterior parts of animal), and salts of the bile acids all delay coagulation, and may prevent it altogether. Methods op Clinical Examination A. General 1. Estimation of Total Quantity.—Many methods have been devised for this purpose, but