ABDOMINAL ANEURYSM 20 Ad 3. When the tumour extends upwards and does not give rise to pulsation it may simulate an empyema. Besides the history of the case, a careful examination of the chest ought to clear up any doubt, for a systolic bruit is often heard, and the heart is pushed upwards or (as in one case which I saw) is found pulsating forcibly against the chest wall by being pushed forward. The distinction between thoracic and abdominal aneurysm has already been noticed. Ad 4. The diagnosis of those cases in which paralysis of the legs sets in, and in which the affection simulates caries, transverse myelitis, or a tumour of the vertebrae, has already been dwelt upon. If the paralysis is due to obstruc- tion of the aorta, no pulse will be felt in either femoral; if it be due to pressure on the cord, the Rontgen rays ought to clear up any doubt, as it would show the simple erosion, uncom- plicated by the inflammatory changes in the bone seen in caries. When rupture has taken place, the diagnosis is not difficult, but the collapsed condition has to be distinguished from extra-uterine faetation, perforative peritonitis, acute pancreatitis. Early diagnosis of abdominal aneurysm is a matter of importance, and incurable hmibago and sciatica require the most careful physical examination with all modern accessories, sphyg- mograph, skiagraph. Dissecting aneurysm often gives rise to no symptoms, and is discovered at the autopsy, or gives rise to such indefinite symptoms that, unless there are signs of obstruction of the aorta or its branches, the affection cannot be diagnosed. It generally causes death from rupture of the aorta. Treatment of Abdominal Aneurysm. — I. Medicinal. It is needless to refer to this, as it is the same as for thoracic aneurysm, to the article on which I must refer. Of recent addi- tions on this subject I may mention (1) the treatment by the administration of chloride of calcium. This, according to Professor Wright's observation, increases the coagulability of the blood, and appears to have been successfully used in two cases of abdominal aneurysm. (2) The subcutaneous injection of gelatin, which has been first tried by Lancereaux and Paulesco {Bulletin de VAcaxlemie de Med. 1897, vol. xxxvii.; 1898, vol. xl.), who found that the subcutaneous injection into the gluteal region of about 2-00-2-250 cbc. of a sterilised 3 per cent watery solution of gelatin causes rapid consoli- dation and eventual cure of the aneurysm. The method has since been tried with varying suc- cess by several German and French observers {Deutsch. med. Wochen. 1899). Lancereaux found experimentally in animals that when gelatin was introduced into the system the blood coagulated much quicker. Two cases are re- corded in which death occurred soon after gelatin injection (Barth, Gaz. des hopit. 1898). (3) The administration of proto-nuclein is said to have caused the cure of an abdominal aneurysm {New York Med. Journal, Sept. 1898). II. Compression of the abdominal aorta. (1) Pressure on the proximal side, as by far the largest number of aneurysms are found above the cceliac axis ; this method can only be applied in a few cases. The first and best-known case in which this was successfully tried is Murray's- {Med.-Chir. Trans. 1864). H. Moxon and Dur- ham {Med.-Chir. Trans. 1872) have published a second successful case, and since then very few cases have been published. The pressure is applied for several hours at a time at different intervals. Consolidation, according to Murray, is set up very quickly. (2) Pressure on the distal side. Pary and Bryant {Med.-Chir. Trans. 1872) record a case in which Lister's tourniquet was applied for twelve hours, and again for four hours after an interval of twelve hours. The patient died soon after from peritonitis. (3) Ligature of the abdominal aorta, proposed here by Astley Cooper, has not found any advocates in recent years. III. Introduction of foreign bodies. This applies to thoracic as well as abdominal aneu- rysm. Needles, horse-hair, iron wire, platinum wire, steel springs, have been used in aladominal aneurysm. In some cases excellent results, obtain (see Boyd, Brit. Med. Journ. 1899, vol. i.). M'Ewen's method for the production of a white thrombus applied equally to both forms of aneurysm. IV. Injection of blood-coagulating substances (perchloride of iron, alcohol, ergot, tannin) is only applicable in exceptional cases, and of very doubtful use (Smith, Barth. Ilospit. Heports^ 1891). V. Electrolysis is not applicable for abdominal! aneurysm. Aneurysm of the Branches of the Abdominal. Aorta Cceliac Axis.—It is mostly the aorta itself, close to the cceliac axis, which gives rise to the aneurysm, and only in a few cases does the aneurysm spring from the axis itself. In its symptoms, course, and termination it does not differ from aneurysm of abdominal aorta. Gastric Artery.—Of very rare occurrence,, occasionally the aneurysm springs from the gastric artery near its origin ; more interesting are those cases (Douglas Powell, Path. Trans^ 1878; Gerry, Boston Med. and Surg. Journ. 1888) in which the aneurysm formed at the bottom of a gastric ulcer and caused death by haemorrhage into the stomach, or into the peri- toneal cavity (Cuming, Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. 1869, vol. xlvii.; Villard, Bull. soc. anat. de Paris, 1870, xiv.).