125 AMPUTATIONS second metatarsal bone to the cuneiform bones. The best way to divide these ligaments is to put the knife in obliquely at the side of the bone with the cutting edge away from the surgeon. Tlie knife is tlien to be raised until it is at right angles with the foot, and in tliis way the hga- ments are divided. This must be done on both sides of the metatarsal bone. Hey's operation, in which the projecting por- tion of the internal cuneiform is sawn through, is an easier operation to perform. Mid-Tarsal Amputation, Chopart's.—Land- marks.—On the outer side, a point midway be- tween the tip of the fifth metatarsal bone and the external malleolus. This corresponds to the joint between the os calcis and the cuboid. On the inner side, the tubercle of the scaphoid. The same incisions are made as in the tarso- metatarsal amputations, but the plantar incision is not carried so far forward. The anterior margin of the plantar flap is oblique, not trans- verse ; the reason being that the tarsus has a greater depth internally than externally. The incision is to be made down to the bone and the bone dissected off the flap. Syme argued that Chopart's amputation was a bad one because of the tilting backwards of the heel which some- times took place. This evil can be overcome by performing tenotomy of the tendo Achillis should it be found necessary. Amputations at the Ankle-Joint Syme's Amputation.—Landmarks. — On the outer side, the tip of the external malleolus. On the inner side, a point corresponding to the tip of the external malleolus, which will be found to be just below the level of the internal malleo- lus and slightly farther back. The foot being held at a right angle, the points are to be joined by incisions across the sole of the foot and across the dorsum. These incisions are made down to the bone. The arteries are divided at this, the fii'st, cut. Syme then dissected the heel flap off" the bone; but it is simpler to dis- articulate, and dissect the bone oft' the flap, keeping close to the bone. Care must be taken not to injure the posterior tibial artery as it runs along the liack of the astragalus. The lower end of the tibia and fibula are then cleared and sawn oft'. The whole articular surface must be removed. Any nerves which project may be cut off". It is not advisable to pull upon the tendons and cut them short, as, if this is done, they will retract, leaving a tube of synovial membrane which may give trouble if sepsis occur. An opening for a posterior drain may be made through the skin of the heel, or a drainage tube may be inserted through the outer angle of the wound. Modifications of Syme's Method.—Macl-enzies Amputation.—In some cases of extensive disease involving the outer ankle no flap can be got from the outer side. In such cases a modifica- tion of Syme's amputation is performed, in which the flap is taken from the inner side. The knife is entered opposite the tendon of the tibialis anticus, but on a level with the most prominent part of the internal malleolus, carried down the inner side of the foot, then obliquely across the sole, and up along the tendo Achillis to the corresponding point posteriorly. These two points are again joined by an external in- cision passing over the external malleolus. The bone is now dissected oft' the flap, and the lower end of the tibia and fibula removed as in Syme's operation. In this operation drainage is more perfect than in Syme's operation. Pirogoff's Amputation.—The bony points are the same as those for Syme's amputation, but the incision across the sole passes slightly farther forwards. The incisions having been made, the OS calcis is exposed and sawn across, part being left in the heel flap. The rest of the foot and the lower end of the tibia and fibula having been taken away, the sawn end of the os calcis is brought in contact with the sawn surface of the tibia and fibula. This is an excellent opera- tion in cases of injury, as it gives a slightly longer stump than that obtained by Syme's operation. In cases of tubercular disease it is safer to remove the whole of the os calcis. Amputations through the Lower Third of THE Leg Teale of Leeds laid down the principle of making a long extensor flap. He said the extensor flap should be in length and in breadth equal to half the circumference of the limb. The short flexor flap should be a quarter the length of the extensor flap. The flaps are dissected up and the bone sawn at the level of the base of the flaps. The long anterior flap is then turned to the back of the limb, the re- sulting cicatrix being T-shaped. This principle is not carried out rigidly; one makes a long extensor flap with roimded ends, and a short flexor flap. I think the important point to attend to is to lift all the soft tissue off the bone and interosseous membrane, and to divide the anterior tibial artery at the apex of the flap. The saw should enter both bones at the same time, so that the last bone to be sawn through will be the tibia. Amputations below the Knee-Joint The Upper Third of the Calf (seat of election). —Amputation is often performed in this situa- tion for injiu-y. Method 171 which a Posterior Flap is used.— The surgeon places his thumb on the head of the fibula and his forefinger on the inner and posterior border of the tibia, a long knife is then passed in behind the fibula and pushed through to the posteror border of the tibia, and carried downwards behind the l)ones, making a large flap by transfixion. The knife is now