385 BLADDER, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF in various ways, usually as the result of injury, for example by a blow or crush involving the lower part of the abdomen; it frecpiently com- plicates cases of fractured pelvis, the bladder l)eing ruptured by the same force, or penetrated by a fragment of bone. Though in exceptional cases it may occur from simple over-distension without any external violence, it will usually be found that under these circumstances the bladder-wall was previously the seat of ulcera- tion, or thinned and weakened from disease. Rujiture of the bladder may be divided into intra-peritoneal and extra-peritoneal, according to the situation of the rent in its wall. (a) In intra -i:)eritoneal nqoture, the most common variety, the posterior or ujjper wall of the liladder, i.e. the portion invested by peritoneum, gives way, and the peritoneal cavity being opened, extravasation of urine usually takes place into its interior. The commonest situation is the posterior wall, the rent usually running in a more or less vertical direction, and when due to injury, often for a distance of one or two inches; in idiopathic cases the opening is of small size, and generally more circular in shape. The urine may become extravasated widely through the lower part of the abdominal cavity, or it may be limited by coils of intestines, sometimes forming a more or less defined swelling above the pubes, or behind the bladder, and then perceptible on examination by the rectum. Occasionally the rupt»ire is at first subperitoneal, the urine col- lecting between and separating the nniscular :uid serous coats, and subsequently making its way through the peritoneum into the abdominal cavity. The symptoms under these circmnstances are usually of a well-marked character. There is sevei'e collapse, with l>urning pain in the lower part of the abdomen, and often a constant desire ' to micturate, with inability to do so, though at times a small quantity of almost pure Ijlood may be expelled from the urethra. A catheter can be introduced into the bladder without difficulty, and it will be found either quite empty or perhaps a little bloody urine can be drawn oft'. Occasionally, a considerable amount oi fluid tinged with blood can be evacuated, owing to the fact that the end of the instrument passes through the rent in the bladder-wall into the peritoneal cavity and draws off lu-ine mixed with peritoneal fluid and blood. Under these circumstances the movement of the catheter, which was restricted so long as it remained in the empty bladder, will be foiuid unusually free, and its end can often be felt through the abdo- minal wall much more distinctly than would be the case if it was in the interior of the bladder. Inquiry should always be made whether the bladder was full at the time of the injury, for if so, and it is afterwards found empty, this is presumptive evidence of rupture having taken VOL. I place. In cases where the diagnosis is doubtful a measured amount (10-12 oz.) of boric lotion may be injected into the bladder and then allowed to run out. If the bladder becomes distended, and the same quantity afterwards escapes, there is no rupture; but if onl}' a small proportion of the lotion returns, it is proliably because some of the fluid has passed through a rent in the bladder into the peritoneal cavity. It has also been suggested in doubtful cases to inflate the viscus with hydrogen or with air; if it is intact, a localised tympanitic tumoiu', taking the form of the distended bladder, will be apparent; if ruptured, the gas or air passing into the peritoneal cavity will cause general I tympanites. If the injury does not rapidly prove fatal, and t no treatment is adopted, symptoms of peritonitis usually supervene, and in most cases death soon t;ikes place. {[)) In extra-peritoneal rujAure the anterior wall or base of the bladder, i.e. the part un- covered by peritoneum, gives way, and the I peritoneal cavity not being opened, the urine escapes into the pelvic cellular tissue in front of j or beneath and behind the bladder. It may infiltrate the parts widely, or collect and form a localised swelling above the pubes, or between the bladder and rectum, sometimes in the middle I line, sometimes more on one side than the other. Occasionally the lu'ine travels upwards for some distance in the subserous areolar tissue, e.g. as high as the umbilicus, and then biu'sts through the peritoneum into the abdominal cavity ; or it tracks downwards along the inguinal canal to the scrotum, or through the obturator foramen and femoral canal to the upper part of the thigh, forming a diffused swelling in these situations. The general symptoms are very similar to those of intra-peritoneal rupture, and in many cases a certain diagnosis cannot be made with- out an exploratory incision. In this injury, however, the end of the catheter, which will not pass into the peritoneal cavity, can occasionally 1)6 felt outside the bladder in the cellular tissue between it and the rectum. A diff'used swelling- is sometimes apparent abo"\'e the pubes or in the perineum, owing to the extravasation of urine into the cellular tissue in one or other of these situations. Unless an outlet is speedily provided for the urine, pelvic cellulitis, often followed by j^eri- tonitis, is set up, and the case soon terminates fatally. Di<tf)nosis.—Except in cases where the rent is small, and either valvidar or blocked by a coil of intestine, when many of the character- istic symptoms of rupture may be absent, the diagnosis of this injury is not usually very difficult. Ruptured urethra may be distin- guished by the fact that it will be difficult or impossible to introduce a catheter into the 2.5