OF BLOOD-VESSELS BRAIN, AFFECTIONS 476 in reference to any particular case, it ought to be recognised that it possibly occasionally occiu's during rest in bed. Cerelaral litemorrhage is rare under the age of forty, and it seems to become rather more rare during advancing years, so that between eighty and ninety it is far more uncommon, as we should naturally expect, than is thrombosis. It is rather more common in men than in women, liut there does not seem to be any very marked disproportion. SYjrPTOMS.—In considering the symptoms of cerebral hfemorrhage, it must be understood that we are dealing here merely with those which occur at or in connection with the onset of the condition. In cases which recover from the initial stroke a permanent condition of paralysis is established. The various paralytic phenomena will be subsequently considered. Manner of Onset.—The onset is sudden, and the patient is, as it were, struck down, as is indicated by one of the older and more common names—apoplexy. Consciousness may not be lost immediately, b^it is always impaired, and very often completely lost. Although at first it may be possible, to a certain extent, to rouse the patient so as to allow of swallowing being carried on, the condition of unconsciousness may deepen into profomid coma. The time which it takes for this to occur varies in different cases, being determined— (i.) By the amount of blood efi'used into the brain, and (ii.) By the rapidity with which this effusion occiirs. Hcemorrhage into Brain S'uhstance. — If, for example, the haemorrhage is into the substance of the brain, on account of the conditions which are there present, it is apt to be slower, and consequently the symjjtoms are less sthenic in character. With such a condition the lileeding may be comparatively small in amount, and the constitutional effects, therefore, may not be very severe. It is even possible that consciousness may not b& lost, although this is certainly un- common. If it is not lost, then giddiness, with perhaps some headache, and the occiu-rence of paralysis, will mark the nature of the affection. It is rare for hfemorrhage in this position, unless associated with ursemia or some other toxic condition, to cause any convulsion. Snperjicial Hcemorrhaffe.—Superficial haemor- rhage, on the other hand, which may be originally meningeal, is very apt to be associated with convulsion, starting in the limbs of the side opposite the side of the brain at which the hsemorrhage is taking place, spreading perhaps so as to affect also the other side of the body. Such hfemorrhage also, if convulsion be not present, may result in very considerable mental disturbance with delirium, perhaps associated with violence. Hcemo7-rhage into the Ventricles. — Hfemor- rhage into the other region to which we have referred, namely, into the ventricles, results in a much more serious initial condition than either of those to which we have already fiUuded. It can easily be understood that if hfemorrhage occurs into the ventricles, and if the blood is effused, as it is apt to be, quickly and in large (quantity, that the condition quickly becomes one of the most extreme gravity. Such haemor- rhage usually results in immedifxte loss of con- sciousness, which rfipidly Itecomes profound coma, find ends fatally in the course of a few hours. It may be primary, or it may be secondary to hfemorrhage occurring into the sul)stance of the brain, the hfemorrhage extend- ing, pushing fipart the cerebral substance, and finally ruptm'ing it, and so escaping into the ventricles. Localising Phenomena.—Besides the general constitutional conditions there is, of course, a localised paralysis—a paralysis depending upon the position in which the hfemorrhage occiu-s. Hfemorrhage into the brain is almost fxhvays single, and its consequence is paralysis of the opposite side of the body, the limbs Ijeing affected in different degree according to the position of the hfemorrhage. If, for example, hfemorrhfige occurs in its usual position— nfimely, in the anterior division of the ctxpsule ])ehind the knee—the pfinxlysis is such fis to cause more affection of the arm than of the leg, and to be tmassociated with sensory disturbance. If, on the other hand, the hfemorrhage is farther Ijack, then we are much more apt to have a condition present in which the leg suffers more than the arm, in which hemiansesthesia may be present and hemianopia is not rare. Pathoi>ogy.—The pathology of the condition has probfibly lieen sufficiently referred to in dealing with the fetiology. The pathological anatomy is concerned with the site, the fippear- ances, and the subsequent changes in the effused V)lood. (i.) Tlie Site. — The two hemispheres are affected with nearly equal frequency, but of the various parts of the brain the central ganglia are undoubtedly the most common seat of hfemorrhage. It is significant that Charcot found that miliary aneurysms occur more fre- quently in this position than they do in any other part of the brain. Hfemorrhage into the centrum ovale may, of course, as already de- scribed, result in haemorrhage into the ventricles. But it is certain that hfemorrhage primarily into the ventricles sometimes occurs, possibly from the choroid plexus, in which miliary aneurysms have been found. Hfemorrhage into the cortex is next in frequency, although much rarer than that variety to which we have just alluded. Hfemorrhage also occurs into the pons and into the cerebellum, biit it is rare into the medulla and the cms cerebri. (ii.) Tiie Appearances. — When the blood is effused it forms a cavity, at first, by pushing