BERIBERI 373 with care, in the case of alcoholics exhibiting symptoms of peripheral neuritis while resident in a l)eriberi locality, to be sure as to the particular poison to which the symptoms are attributable. But even in such a case the presence of marked oedema, of palpitations, and of cardiac bruits would suggest a diagnosis of beriberi; their absence, and the presence of the well-known symptoms of chronic alcoholism, alcoholic neuritis. Treatment.—The most important measure in the treatment of beriberi is immediate removal of the patient from the spot in which the disease was acquired. As a rule, the carrying- out of this measure is followed after four or five days by steady improvement. If the patient cannot be removed he should at least be placed in an airy, well-lighted, and dry apartment well off' the ground, if such be available. The diet should be varied and nutritious, liut not too bulky. Experience is against the use of rice in this disease; some other cereal should be substituted, both in the case of those already attacked and in those compelled to live in the infected area. If there be no diarrhoea it is well to keep the bowels free by some mild saline aperient; in dropsical cases the amount of fluid taken should be restricted. Small doses of digitalis or of strophanthus seem to be of service where the heart's action is Aveak and irregular. Besides these, many other drugs have been recommended in the routine treatment of beriberi ; so far the evidence in favour of any one of them is of the slenderest description. Malarial, dysenteric, syphilitic, and other complications should be dealt with in the ordinary way. If it is found from an examina- tion of the fseces that the alimentary canal is the seat of some form of verminous invasion, this should receive attention. Ankylostomiasis, especially, should not be neglected, particularly if the patient is markedly antemic. With a view to preventing or mitigating the cardiac attacks which constitute the principal danger in beriberi while the disease is active, the patient should be kept in bed and warned against over - eating or unnecessary exertion. His attendant should be provided with nitrite of amyl and solution of nitro-glycerine, and be instructed to administer at once one or other of these drugs on the slightest sign of the approach of dyspnoea or other evidence of embarrassed circulation. In these circumstances three to five drops of the 1 per cent solution of nitro- glycerine may be given every quarter or half hour until dyspnoea is relieved. These measures failing, dyspnoea increasing, and the patient becoming cyanosed, there must be no hesitation in opening a vein and bleeding to the extent of eight or ten ounces. Very often, as a conse- quence of venesection, relief is immediate, though, too frequently, only temporary. The l)leeding may be repeated several times if the cardiac symptoms persist. It sometimes saves life. Pleural or pericardial effusions should be aspirated if they seem to be interfering with the action of the heart. When acute symptoms have subsided and the muscles are no longer tender, their re- habilitation may be favoured by gentle mas- sage and faradisation. A sea-voyage has often a powerful influence both in arresting the pro- gress of the active disease and in favouring convalescence. In the event of beriberi breaking out in a school or similar institution, the various members of the community should be sent to their re- spective homes, and the buildings they had inhabited thoroughly disinfected. Ships in which beriberi is known to occur should have their woodwork thoroughly scraped and painted ; at the same time, all rotten timbers, foul bilge water, and any organic matter which might be supposed to harbour the germ of the disease should also be removed. BGrricirdifl.—A name sometimes given to glycogen in honour of Claude Bernard. See Physiology {Liver, Glycogenic Function). Bertilloniclg'e. — The anthropometric raetliod of identifying criminals, devised by Bertillon. »S'ee Anthropometry ; Medicine, For- ensic {Identity). Bestiality.—Attempted coitus with one oi the lower animals. Beta.. — The second letter of the Greek alphabet used as a prefix to distinguish isomeric varieties of chemical substances, e.g. /3-amyl, /3-eucaine, /i-oxyl )utyric acid. Beta Rays.—One of the three varieties of " radiations " from radium, the others being alpha and gamma rays; they are electrons carrying a negative charge, are strongly deviable by the magnet, and have greater penetrative power than the alpha rays. See Radium. Betel.—The leaves of Piper betel, used as a masticatory in India and the East, and often coml>ined with areca nut and lime ; it is official in the Indian and Colonial Addendum (1900) to the British Pharmacopoeia. Beveragfes. See Invalid Feeding {Barley Water, Toast Water, Rice Water, Lemon- ade, etc.). Bex. See Balneology {Sivitzerland) , Mineral Waters {Muriated Saline). Bexhill. See Therapeutics, Health Re- sorts {English).