56 ADIPOCERE required for the production of adipocere has excited a great deal of interest and discussion, as it was at one time supposed that the amount of saponification present in a body might be important evidence of the time that had elapsed since death, and in several instances important legal decisions, especially as to survivorship, have turned upon this point. It appears, how- ever, that the process goes on at no constant rate. Saponification may be as complete in a few months in one case, as after many years in another. Roughly speaking, it may be said that the formation of any notable amount of adipocere seldom occurs within six weeks in water, or three months in damp soil, while the complete conversion of a body into adipocere is a matter of years rather than months. In very favourable circumstances the time required may be considerably shortened, and very exceptional cases are quoted as having occurred, in India, in which an advanced degree of saponification was present within a few days of death. Adiposis Dolorosa. — Dercum's Disease. See Obesity. Adiposity—Fatness. See Life In- surance, Obesity. Adipsia.—Absence of thirst, as noted in certain grave diseases. Adirondack iVIountains.—A health resort in New York State, recommended in cases of phthisis. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts. Adjuvant.—Auxiliary. See Prescribing. Adolescence. — The period between puberty and full development. See Adolescent Insanity ; Insanity, Etiology of ; Rickets {Late). Adolescent Insanity. General Remarks . . . . .56 Statistics ....... 56 Relation of the Abnormal to the Normal . 57 The Insanities of Childhood, Puberty, and Adolescence . . . . . .57 Treatment . . . . . .59 Significance of Adolescent Insanity . . 60 Lesser Mental and Moral CJianges . .61 Deformed Palate and Bodily Acconvpani- ments ....... 62 General Remarks.—The two great eras of brain development and brain decadence are periods of special danger to the mental func- tions, as they are indeed to all the nerve func- tions. In one case, a bad mental heredity will arrest and upset the normal and orderly develop- ment of mind, and we have idiocy or adolescent insanity resulting. In other cases, hereditary tendencies towards motor, sensory, or trophic weaknesses will result in epilepsy, infantile paralysis, or cleft palate. Careful and exact studies of brain development in all the multi- form relations of the many and marvellous functions of that organ are yet wanting. The subject has lately received a great stimulus through Flechsig's observations on the develop- ment of the conduction paths in a child's brain in relation to the functional and organic require- ments of the organism. In development, the evolution of sex and all that it implies, especially its mental relationships, are of supreme import- ance. In decadence, the extinction of reproduc- tive energy affects mind profoundly, but not so greatly as its evolution. The mental changes of decadence have a closer relationship to diminished blood-supply and morbid vascidar changes than to sexual abatement. The forms assumed by the psychoses and the neviroses of development and of decadence are in many important respects different, as might surely have been expected on physiological and psycho- logical grounds. In both cases they are coloured by the special bodily and mental characteristics of each period of life. Speaking generally, the developmental insanities — not including the congenital mental arrestments of idiocy and congenital imbecility — are characterised by acuteness, exaltation, periodicity, and active sexual accompaniments; while those of decad- ence show more depression, neurasthenia, trophic abatement, amnesia, and psychopareses; their chief complications being the motor pareses. Some Statistics.—A general idea of the liability of the different periods of life to nervous breakdown may be obtained by a glance at the mortality tables showing the causes of death from the different classes of disease at various periods of life. Looking at the numbers set forth in the Report of the Registrar-General for Scotland for 1895, we see that 55 per cent of the whole population is between the ages of 1 year and 25, both inclusive. More than one-half of the people of Scotland is, therefore, in the developmental stage as regards their brain and nervous functions. During this period, if the causes of deaths are inquired into, it is found that 35 per cent, or thereabouts, of the deaths have resulted from diseases of the nervous system. The brain is then evidently doing its work ill. That is in strong contrast to the vital statistics of the next period of life—that between 26 and 50 inclusive—which may be taken as the period of completed development, greatest bodily and mental strength, fullest reproductive power, and least liability to any of the failures of decay. The proportion of persons alive at this best period of life was 30 per cent. When the causes of death among this strong, active, responsible, sexual mass of humanity that is doing the chief part of the world's work is examined into, we find that only 12'2 per cent of the mortality results from nervous diseases. The brain is then clearly doing its work well.