ADOLESCENT INSANITY 62 ceeding mental changes are, I believe, mere sequences in an adolescent mental neurosis. I am quite convinced that losses of mental inhibition and morbid impulsiveness of all sorts, without intellectual defects, occur in neurotic adolescents as really pathological mental pheno- mena. I have elsewhere described adolescent dipsomania, and congenital absence of con- science and impulses towards crime. I think a recent criminal case in Scotland, that of the "Arran murderer," was an example of this. A weak, vain youth, with a notoriously bad heredity as regards mental taint, who committed a murder under most extraordinary circumstances, with- out any real motive, and behaved in an insane manner afterwards, was convicted, but his sentence was afterwards respited as a result of a careful medical examination into his mental condition. It would need much time to enter into the question of those most interesting phases of depression and transitory deep feeling that have been so common in the adolescent period of the lives of many men of genius. Literature owes much to them, and poetry too. What physician can read the lives and writings of Goethe, Carlyle, Cowper, or Thackeray without seeing that the world would never have had Werther, Sartor Resartus, or Pendennis, except their authors had passed through melancholic phases of existence at the time the reproductive nisus was rising into dominant strength over all the life and thoughts and feelings? Suicide was contemplated at the very time when those men were fullest of life. It did not then need disappointed lo ve or thwarted ambitions to make them "tired of life." Nor do we find such adolescent depression confined to men of poetic temperament. We know that men after- wards of calmest or most sceptical minds— political economists and philosophers like Stuart Mill and Hume—passed through melancholic periods from twenty to twenty-five, and both these men then seriously contemplated suicide. Any attempt to explain or to understand such "Stygian darkness, spectre-haunted," without taking into account the teachings of heredity and of the physiological psychology and patho- logy of development, would be entirely futile and misleading. Without going the length of Tolstoi, one could wish that biographers and writers of serious fiction more fully took into account the facts and the laws of physiology and heredity in doing their work. Deformed Palate and Bodily Accompani- ments.—The palate is deformed in 55 per cent of the adolescent insane—as compared with 61 per cent in idiots and congenital imbeciles, though the deformities are not usually so great. Commonly also the form and facial expression are neurotic, and the development of body and mind is retarded for its age. Frequently there are marked derangements of sensory neuroses, pains in the head are very common, explosive- ness and undue impulsiveness are not uncommon, though I have met with many cases where there was unusual seriousness and thoughtfulness, with a want of the levity proper to their age, in the young people who took attacks of adolescent insanity. Adonidin.—A glucoside obtained from Adonis vernalis. As a cardiac stimulant (dose, \ to \ grain; O'Ol to 0-02 gram) it is rapid in action, and has not, apparently, the dangers of cumulative effects; it is, however, irritating to the alimentary tract. Adrenal Glands. Physiology of .... . 62 Adrenalin ...... 64 Addison's Disease .... 65 Other Diseases and Morbid Conditions 72 Physiology of the Adrenal Glands See also Physiology and Pharmacology Any knowledge or indeed serious research into the functions of the adrenal bodies dates from, and in fact was started by, Addison's discovery that morbid lesions in these bodies were associ- ated with a train of symptoms. Addison himself supposed that the adrenal glands had a definite function, and this hypothesis soon received experimental proof from Brown-Sequai'd. By removing the adrenal bodies from dogs, cats, rabbits, and guinea-pigs, he came to the con- clusions that these bodies were essential to life, and that death rapidly followed their removal, that the blood became poisonous, and that the adrenal bodies normally destroyed or modified a substance which had the property of transform- ing itself into pigment; when the adrenal glands were destroyed, this pigment collected in the blood, but the animals did not become pig- mented, probably because death occurred too soon. Soon after this, probably as a result of the predominance then attached to the influence of the nervous system and reflex action, the opinion became current that the disturbances following disease or experimental removal of the adrenal bodies were not due to the destruction or absence of the organs so much as to concomitant irrita- tion and damage inflicted on the neighbouring sympathetic ganglia and plexuses. Observations were brought forward to show that careful re- moval of the adrenal bodies was not necessarily fatal; but in the light of our present knowledge it now appears probable that the glands were not completely removed, or that accessory ad- renal bodies were left behind, and also that sufficient time was not allowed to elapse after the operation to say with confidence what the effects really were. This reaction of opinion lasted for a considerable period after Brown- Sequard's first published researches (1856), and