OF BLOOD-VESSELS BRAIN, AFFECTIONS 484 with meteorism, thus closely simulating typhoid fever. These symptoms usually come on about the second week, and az-e accompanied by a dry, foul tongue, a measly kind of rash—quite distinct from typhoid rash—pallor, languor, headache, muttering delirium, and great prostration. In a third class of cases the symptoms are cerebral, or rather meningeal, consisting chiefly in excitement, agitation, twitching of muscles, squints, head retraction, and delirium. This is rather an unusual type of sinus thrombosis, and it may be complicated by the occurrence of cerebral abscess. The treatment of this affec- tion is considered on page 520. Conditions Resulting from Vascular Lesions Thei'e are some conditions which are occasion- ally present in the course of hemiplegia, either at the onset of the illness or in later stages, which must be referred to. jd^Ae^osts.—Amongst these one of the most interesting is that form of mobile spasm known as athetosis. In this condition the paralysed limb or limbs, although the arm is the part chiefly afl'ected, undergo a cycle of slow move- ment, one position gradually passing into another, none of the movements being jerky. Although the arm is the part chiefly affected, this spasm is not by any means restricted to that, for the leg and foot may also be affected, and also the face. This athetosis occurs far more frequently in cases of hemiplegia of which the onset has taken place in early life, than in those in which the paralysis has occurred later. But it is met with occasionally after the attacks which occur in later life, and probably more frequently in those which are traumatic in their origin {vide "Athetosis"). Other Forms of Involuntary Alovement.— Besides this athetosis or mobile spasm, another form of involuntary movement also occurs after hemiplegia. This has been spoken of as post- hemiplegic chorea, an unfortunate name, which has not even the advantage of being descriptive. In this condition the movement is a jerky, sharp movement, usually increased by attempts at voluntary motion, and therefore resembling in some ways the so-called " intentional tremor " of disseminated sclerosis. This form also is more frequent after lesions occurring in early life, although not absolutely restricted to them. Convulsions.—Convulsions in association with hemiplegia occur at two stages : first, in connec- tion with the onset of the paralysis, when the convulsions are presumably to be ascribed to the initial irritation depending upon the lesion ; and, secondly, after the paralysis is completely estab- lished, when they are to be ascribed to some persistent irritation around the focus of damage. In the former case the phenomena may be merely transient. In the latter case, when they have once occurred they are apt to return, and have to be treated on the same principles as ordinary epileptic attacks. In both cases the convulsions commence on one side, and are often restricted to the paralysed side, although not invariably. Contractures.—Contractures are very apt to occur in the paralysed limbs. These, of course, depend upon the preponderating activity of certain groups of muscles, and it is exceedingly difficult altogether to prevent their occurrence. Probably the most troublesome and most im- portant contractures occur in the hand and wrist. This subject is further referred to in the article "Deformities." Trophic Changes in the Skin, Muscles, and Joints.—These are of two kinds, according as they occur in the initial stage of the disease or as a later phenomenon. Of the former, un- doubtedly the most important and the most ominously significant is the acute sloughing bed-sores, which may occur in the first few hours of the onset of the paralysis, and is very apt to escape the notice of the nurse unless she has been warned of the possibility of its occur- rence. This bed-sore occurs over the paralysed side, affecting the tissvies over the trochanter and over the sacrum, and may penetrate in the course of a few hours so deeply as actually to lay bare the bone. The bed-sores which occur at a later stage of the illness are not so signifi- cant and not so troublesome. It is sometimes difficult to entirely prevent their occurrence, but much can be done by the care and cleanliness which are bestowed upon the patient (vide " Bed- Sores "). Besides bed-sores, trophic changes in the skin and the other parts, often associated with changes in the joints, which themselves may be the result of interference with nutrition, are apt to occur. Joint changes occur most frequently in the shoulder, and occur more frequently on the left side than they do on the right, as was long ago pointed out by Hughlings Jackson. This joint change may result in almost complete immobility of the shoulder joint, and is followed by diminu- tion in the size of the muscles and often in actual pain along the nerve trunks, and in some cases there is evidence that the joint change has spread so as to involve the cords of the brachial plexus, and we have then in such cases the usual evidences of brachial neuritis, namely, wasting of muscles, tenderness of nerve trunks, glossy skin, and alterations in the conditions of sweat secretion. Treatment The treatment in any given case of paralysis must be divided into two parts, according as we consider the treatment at the onset of the attack and the treatment necessary when the paralysed condition has become established. Treatment at the Onset. — In Cases of Hcemorrhage.—It is evident that the condition of a patient who suffers from even a small