BONE, DISEASES OF 433 the resisting power of the tissues, and give the staphylococci a freer hand. The result fre- (juently is that the patient dies of intoxication. The toxic disturbance of the liver and digestive organs accounts for the loss of appetite, the dry tongue, the distension of the abdomen, the con- stipation and the intercurrent diarrhosa, decom- position of the intestinal contents, and auto- intoxication ; the parenchymatous degeneration of the heart muscle leads to cardiac weakness, and a small, raj^id pidse. The kidney frequently suffers from bacterial and from toxic nephritis; the urine is usually scanty and contains albumen. The skin may show erythematous and purpuric rashes of a red or cliiret colour; there may be raised eruptions like urticaria, and others suggesting some erup- tive fever. The fever corresponds to the ab- sorption of toxins; it is remittent and very irregidar; the maximum may be in the morn- ing in the shape of an abrupt and rapid rise from the normal. All these intoxications are aggravated by fresh infection from without at the time of spontaneous rupture of the suppura- tion on the skin surface, or where the sup- pui'ation has V)een opened without antiseptic precautions. In the same way that the primaiy lesion may cause death by metastasis and general intoxica- tion, the secondary ones may come into promi- nence, and may contribute directly to a fatal result. Unless great care is taken, secondary foci may remain undiscovered, not only in the bones, but in the joints, and especially in those which are deeply seated (shovdder and hip). Similarly periosteal and joint suppurations may erupt into the surrounding tissues, and lead to large inter- and intra-muscular collections of pus, which cannot be recognised and dealt with early enough. Similar intoxications may be cUie to 7/iet.astases ■in the. internal organs, which are difiicult to dia- gnose and to evacuate. The more numerous the secondary foci, the greater is the risk of too late or ineffectual removal of toxines from the body. The most important of these internal metastases are met with in the lungs and kidneys, e.g. abscess of the lung, pleurisy, empyema (for which incision and drainage are required with or without rib-resection), pyonephrosis, abscess in the parotid, in the liver, and other organs. Endocarditis with widespread infective em- bolism ; thrombosis and phlebitis in periosteal, subcutaneous, or larger ^'eins from staphylo- coccus invasion of their walls, are to be regarded as complications of exceptional gravity. In these severe cases with infernal metastases the clinical features approach the typhoid state. The temperature is persistently or intermit- tently high ; the pulse is small and rapid ; the patient is breathless ; the senses are blunted ; there are cramps, as in meningitis ; the lips and tongue are dry; the gums swollen and covered VOL. I with sordes ; the belly is swollen and sensitive ; the spleen is swollen; there may be diarrhoea and vomiting; and there may be albumen in the urine. Staphylococci may be cultivated direct from the living blood. The picture of pya3mia may be complete. These grave cases may begin in the same way as a medullary sup- puration confined to one bone, or the disease may be multiple, metastatic, and jjysemic from the onset. All grades are found between local- ised osteomyelitis and pyaemia. The Results of Acute Suppurative Osteo- myelitis.—Apart from the relapsing and chi'onic forms of osteomyelitis following on the acute attack which are considered later, it will be of service to enumerate the results or sequel te of one attack of acute suppurative osteomyelitis, not only those immediately following the attack, e.g. necrosis, but those which may not become evident till a considerable time has elapsed. These latter refer especially to the influences of the attack on the future growth of the bone and the production of deformities. Persistent Sinus or Sinuses.—These usually indicate the presence of a sequestrum. The patient may not apply for treatment until the attack has passed, and he comes complaining of these sinuses. As compared with tuberculous sinuses, those resulting from suppurative osteomyelitis are depressed, adherent, with rigid edges; the surrounding tissues are dry and hard, and the bones are markedly thickened; whereas in tuberculous disease of bone the sinuses present pouting or fungating granulations, the edges of the sinus are undermined, and one may squeeze from them caseous debris and thin watery pus ; thickening of the bone is usually much less pro- noiuiced. The sinus may migrate in the course of years as a result of the growth at the epij^hysial junc- tion, and may come to lie higher up the shaft than it did originally. Displacement of the sequestrum may result in penetration of the adjacent joint, or injury of the popliteal or other artery. In the pelvis, the sequestrum may make its way into the bladder. The sinus may become the seat of cancer (squamous epithelioma), if it be allowed to per- sist for years—this has been especially observed in sinuses over the tibia, the femur, and the os calcis. The edges of the sinus become indurated and the seat of a warty or caulifiower-like growth, which also penetrates into the bone ; the sinus is converted into an open excavated ulcer with stinking discharge. Deformities resulting from Acute Osteomyelitis. —These will be the more marked the earlier in life the attack occurred. Shortening of bone is fairly common from interfei'ence or arrest of growth, resulting from osteomyelitis at the ossifying junction, and from 28