275 ARTERIES, LTCxATURE OF incision three inches in length is made in tlie line of the vessel. The deep fascia being divided, the intermuscular space (which is generally by no means easy to discover) lietween the flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor sublimis digitorum muscles is opened, when the artery with its vena; comites is found lying on the flexor profundus digitorum, with the ulnar nerve lying on its inner side. The nerve being drawn in- wards, the needle is passed from within outwards. Liijature juxt above the Wrist.—An incision extending upwards for one and a half inches is made in the line of the vessel commencing just above the wrist. The deep fascia is incised, the artery is found lying to the radial side of the flexor carpi ulnaris tendon, with the ulnar nerve to its ulnar side. The vente comites being detached from the arterj', the aneurysm needle is passed from within outwards. Ligature of the Superficial Palmar Arch. —As mentioned when treating of palmar haemorrhage, we have two different conditions to deal with : (1) the arrest of primary haemorrhage; (2) the treatment of secondary hsemorrhage in an infected sloughing wound. In the former case, careful cleansing of the wound with the application of an antiseptic compress will generally procure the cessation of the bleeding. In certain cases, however, in which the artery has been only ])artially divided, hremorrhage cannot be controlled by pressure. Operation.—The vessel must be exposed and divided between two ligatures, applied on either side of the wound in the artery. An Esmarch's elastic bandage should always be made use of to allow a good examination of the part. The arch lies immediately under cover of the palmar fascia, and in the middle third of the palm lies at the same level as the upper end of the cleft between the thumb and index finger. The mid point of the arch is practically the centre of the palm. The nerves and tendons lie beneath the arterial arch. The superficial wound is to l)c enlarged, the wound in the artery found, and in every case both ends of the divided or partially divided vessel securely ligated. In secondary ha3mon-hage from an infected wound of the palmar arch, ligature of the brachial artery in the middle of the arm is undoubtedly the wisest treatment. So free is the anastomosis around the elbow that no fear of gangrene of the hand need be entertained. Ligature of Abdominal Aorta.—This opera- tion has proved fatal in ever}' case in which it has been undertaken, though in one case (Monteiros's) the patient lived ten days. The abdominal aorta commences in front of the middle of the last dorsal vertebra, and terminates by dividing into the two common iliac arteries on the left side of the fourth lumbar vertebra, i.e. just below and to the left of the umbilicus. On its right side in its lower two-thirds lies the vena cava inferior. Two methods may ho n)entioned : (1) the old retro-peritoneal ; (2) the newer transperitoneal operation. 1. llie retro-peritoneal method. An /vBOOMirfAL COMMOM ILIAC inTERHAL ILIAC A, for Abdoiiiinal Aortii (ti"Uisperitoii«al); B, for Iliac arteries (transperitoneal); C, for External Iliac artery (retro-peri- toneal); D, for ISxternal Iliac artery (retro-peritoneal); E, for Common Femoral artery ; F, for Superlicial Femoral artery (seat of election). incision is made reaching from the tip of the tenth rib of the left side downwards to the crest of the ilium on the same side. This incision divides the flat muscles of the abdomen until the fascia transversalis is seen. This is then incised vertically, care l)eing taken to avoid opening the parietal peritoneum, which is to be carefully stripped off' the ilio-psoas muscle by the hand passing downwards and backwards until the aorta is felt pulsating in fi-ont of the spine. It is excessively difficult to isolate the artery so as to pass a ligature around it. This method is difficult, uncertain, and dangerous, as it involves working in the dark. It would never be employed Vjy the surgeon of to-day. 2. Transperitoneal Method.—A six-inch vertical incision is made with its centre just to the left of the umbilicus. The abdominal parietes with the peritoneum having been divided and the small intestine pushed to the right side, the aorta comes into view clothed by the parietal peritoneum which covers the posterior wall of the abdomen. This membrane is now carefully divided and the aorta cleaned. The aneuiysm needle should now be passed from right to left, i.e. from the vein. Ligature of the Common Iliac Artery.— Each vessel is only about two inches in length. The common iliac arteries commence bj' the bifurcation of the abdominal aorta on the left side of the body of the fourth lumbar vertelira, and terminate on the level of the uj^per margin of the sacrum by dividing into the external and internal iliac arteries. The common iliac artery lies under cover of the peritoneum, and is crossed just at its bifui'cation by the ureter. The right common iliac vein near the bifurcation is placed mider cover of the arterj', but higher up lies on its right side. The left common iliac vein comes into relation with both common iliac arteries ; below, the vein lies to the right side of its own artery, and liigher up, in order to reach the vena cava inferior, it passes from left to right under cover of the right conuiion iliac artery. These complicated venous relations