ANGINA PECTORIS 190 on, are less liable to bring on an attack, unless they should be very sudden and very excessive. Sometimes great joy affecting a person suddenly and unexpectedly has caused sudden death, but joy, as a rule, does not kill, whereas anger very frequently does. John Hunter suffered from angina pectoris for a number of years before his death, and was accustomed to say that his life was at the mercy of any rascal who cared to irritate him. The end of his life was that one day at a Committee Meeting he was suddenly contradicted; he left the room, staggered into an adjoining apartment, and fell down dead. Pathology.—The heart was fomad by Harvey not to be sensitive when touched, but the stomach and intestines are onlj' slightly sensitive to touch externally, and yet are liable to acute pain from distension or spasmodic contraction. The same thing is observed in the arteries in migraine, which affords the closest analogy with angina pectoris. The exact cause of the pain in angina pectoris cannot at present be stated with certainty, but the condition under which it comes on is a disturbance of the normal re- lation between the power of the heart and the resistance it has to overcome, just as in migraine there is a disturbance of the normal relation between the proximal and peripheral parts of the same artery. Thus a strong heart readily continues to beat in spite of the resistance in the arteries being increased by exertion, by exposure to cold, by reflex vaso-motor excitement, or by such con- ditions of the blood as occur in gouty kidney. A feeble or fatty heart also may continue to beat steadily, so long as the pressure it has to overcome in the arteries does not exceed its powers. But if the relationship is disturbed by oppos- ing a great resistance to a weak heart, pain is apt to come on. More especially is this the case if the cardiac weakness be due to imperfect supply of blood, and the lesion above all others which is associated with angina pectoris is narrowing of the lumen of the coronary arteries. It would appear that the reason why this lesion is associated with angina is that when the heart is called upon to make any extra exertion it requires, like other muscles, an extra supply of blood. When the coronary arteries have their lumen lessened this extra supply of blood is not forthcoming, and then some affection of the muscle or nerves of the heart occurs, which leads to the symptoms which we know as angina. This narrowing of the lumen may occur either in the coronary arteries supplying the right or left ventricle, but it is chiefly when the arteries supplying the left ventricle are affected that symptoms of angina occur. If the arteries supplying the right ventricle are affected, a different class of symptoms is pro- duced, to which the name of " cardiac asthma " has been given. The patient is short of breath on the very least exertion, while his lungs are perfectly healthy, but he does not as a rule tend to suffer from severe pain. Varieties.—Angina pectoris is usually divided into true angina and false or pseudo-angina. This division is objected to by some authorities; but, as Osier very truly says, its clinical con- venience outweighs any disadvantages it may have. The difference between these classes of angina is not one of degree, it is a difference of kind. The pain and distress in an attack of pseudo-angina may be very much greater than in a slight attack of true angina, but the pro- gnosis is very different in the two cases, for thei'c is little or no risk to life in the apparently severe attack of pseudo-angina, while there is cause for anxiety from even the slightest attack of true angina. The main difference between true and false angina pectoris is that true angina, such as occurs in men beyond middle life, is a disease characterised by more or less definite lesions of the heart or vessels, having a course which almost invariably tends towards death. Pseudo- angina, on the other hand, whilst it may present symptoms apparently almost identical with those of the true disease, is usually observed in young girls, or in men before middle life, who indulge to excess in tobacco or tea. It has no definite physical basis, and may be looked upon as a functional disease of a hysterical or neur- algic nature. Moreover, the treatment which cures or relieves the true disease is of little use in these cases of hysterical angina. Vaso-motor Angina.— In this form, which was first described by Nothnagel, the coldness, pallor, and sweating which generally occur in severe cases of angina are even more marked than usual, and there is a tendency to lividity of the extremities. In ordinary angina the attacks usually occur from the pressure in the arteries being raised by exertion; but in this form the contraction of the vessels and consequent rise of pressure occur from the application of cold, such as by washing the hands in cold water. The spasm of the vessels in this condition resembles that in Raynaud's disease. Svich vaso-motor spasms may occur at various ages. They are closely allied to the arterial spasm which occurs in migraine, and like migraine are more common before than after middle age. As the heart is not likely to be weakened by atheroma or fatty degeneration before middle life, vaso-motor angina is not as a rule dangerous to life imless the patient is elderly or unless tlie heart has undergone premature degeneration. Like migraine, this form of angina may pass off with advancing years, and the patient may recover completely from the attacks. On the other hand, it may occur along with degenera- tion of the coronary arteries and heart, and then its consequences will be the same as if the blood-pressure had been raised in the usual way