340 THE AXILLA efforts to reduce dislocations of the humerus, and in one recorded case the subscapular artery was torn from the main trunk. In all these cases the artery, or some of its branches, is more likely to suffer than the vein, and such injuries have been followed by traumatic aneurysm. Arterio-venous aneurysm has fol- lowed wounds, involving the artery and vein simultaneously ; and emphysema has also been observed as a consequence of punctured wounds. The nerves of the brachial plexus are rarely torn by traction on the limb. Such a severe injury is more likely to lead to separation of the roots from the spinal cord, as in a case recorded by Flaubert. The nerve trunks may be injured or compressed in dislocations or fracture of the neck of the humerus. The circumflex nerve from its position most frequently suffers in this way, and the associated paralysis of the deltoid is typical of the lesion. Long-continued crutch pressure may lead to paralysis, the musculo- spiral nerve and the muscles supplied by its posterior interosseous branch being specially affected. Division of a nerve trunk may occur as the result of a penetrating wound, the median being most exposed to injury. Should this occur, the woimd must be at once enlarged, and the separated ends brought accurately together and sutured with every aseptic pre- caution. On the success of this the preserva- tion of motor power and sensation entirely depends. Axis.—(1) The second cervical vertebra. (2) The central line or part of anything, e.g. the pelvic canal. Axis-Traction. See Labour {Opera- tions: Forcejo's). Axite.—One of the terminal filaments of an axis-cylinder. See Physiology (The Tissues: Nerve). Ax-ies-Tliermes. See Balneology {France). Axon.—The axis-cylinder process of a neuron. Axofugal means directed away from the axon ; axopetaX, directed towards the axon. See Physiology {The Tissues : Nerve). Azadirachta indica. See Neem Bark. Azo-Com pou ndS.—Diazo-compounds, or compounds consisting of two organic molecules united by a double atom of nitrogen. AzOOSpermatism. —Sterility in the male due to the absence or inertness of sperma- tozoa in the semen. See Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Sterility). Azoturla.—The presence of an excess of nitrogenous substances in the urine. See Urine, Pathological Changes in. Aztecs. See Mental Deficiency {Con- genital Cases). AzygOS.—Single, not paired, e.g. azygos muscle or azygos artery. Babinski's Sign.—When the plantar surface of the foot is stroked, dorsi-flexion of the foot and plantar flexion of the toes normally take place; but in certain pathological states {e.g. spastic paralysis and epilepsy) dorsal exten- sion of all the toes (especially the hallux) occurs, and this is known as Babinski's Sign; in a word, the plantar reflex gives the extensor response; it is a return to the state existing at birth and until the infant begins to walk. See Paralysis. Bacceili's Sign.—In pleuritic effusions it is stated by Baccelli that, on auscultation, the whispered voice is well conveyed if the eflPusion be serous, but not if it be purulent. See Pleura, Diseases of {Acute Pleurisy). Baciiiaemia.—The presence of bacilli in the blood. BaciilopllObia.—The morbid dread of microbes and bacterial infection. BaciiiOSiS.—The state of bacillary infec- tion. Baciiluria.—The presence of bacilli {e.g. typhoid bacilli) in the urine ; bacteriuria. Baci 11 US. See Micro-Organisms(^acima). See also Anthrax; Aseptic Treatment of Wounds {Air Infection); Cholera Nostras ; Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Inflammatory Affec- tions) ; Diphtheria ; Dysentery ; Emphysema, Surgical ; F^ces ; Food {Impure) ; Glanders ; Intestines, Diseases of {Bacteria); Lardaceous Degeneration {Etiology); Leprosy {Etiology); Liver {Perihepatitis); Nose, Examination of the {Secretion); Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflam- mation {Etiology); Peritoneum {Bacteriology) ; Puerperium, Pathology ; Septicaemia ; Skin, Bacteriology of the; Snake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes ; Suppuration ; Teeth {Oral Sepsis); Tuberculosis ; Typhoid Fever ; Water {Bacteriological Examination). Backaclie.—Sacralgia; pain felt most markedly over the lower lumbar and the sacral regions. See Gynecology, Diagnosis in ; Men- ingitis, Epidemic Cbrebro-Spinal ; Smallpox ; etc. Bacteria. See Micro-Organisms. See also Air, Examination op {Micro-Organisms); Alcohol(^yewera^ Physiology); Alopecia; Aseptic Treatment of Wounds ; Blood {Bacteriological Examination); Bone, Diseases of {Bacterial