BONE, DISEASES OF puration at the ossifying junction, it may re- main localised to the latter region, or it may spread along the medullary canal for a varying distance, or throughout its whole extent, or it may extend through the shell or cortex of the bone overlying the ossifying junction in which it originated, to the deeper surface of the periosteum, liy way of the Haversian can^ds, or through an enlargement of one or more of these, amounting to a visible perforation of the lione ; it then spreads along the deeper layer of the periosteum, and presents the features of 2)eriosteal inflammation and suj)X>uration.. The extent of the latter corresponds generally to the extent of the lesion in the marrow. The pus accumulates under the periosteiun, and lifts it up from the bone. In the region of the ossifying junction, where the pus first enq^ts through the bone, it lifts up the periosteum with ditticulty because of its intimate con- nection with the bone ; extension along the shaft is easier than towards the epiphysis and joint, which accounts for the more extensive stripping of the shaft, it may be in its whole circumfer- ence, or at points of special attachment to the bone these may constitute a barrier. It may, however, extend continuously throughout the entire shaft. Less frequently there may be several distinct abscesses luider the periosteum, scattered ujj and down the shaft, each being derived from a focus of suppuration in the subjacent marrow. The sub-periosteal pus may lie observed to communicate, as descril>ed, with that in the marrow, and also with collections of pus in the overlying cellular tissue. When there is pus in the marrow there is always pus under the periosteum, and the converse is usually true. The sub-periosteal pus makes its way to the surface by the easiest anatomical route, erupts through the skin, and discharges externally. The discharging canal is known as a sinus. Along with, or apart from, the spread from the marrow to the periosteum, the spread may tend in the direction of the adjacent joint, by extension under the jJeriosteum and capsule, or through the epiphysis and jirticular cartilage, or from the pei-iphery of the epiphysial junction, especially if the latter is entirely intni- articular, as is the case in the hip. The occurrence of purely periosteal sup- puration is admitted by certain authors ; it is jirobalily the exception in young subjects; wlien it does occur, and the pus is evacuated, tiio periosteum conies again into contact with the bone, and recovery is more likely to take ])lace without necrosis. From absorption and softening of bone at tiie ju\ta-epiphysiary region in severe forms of in- riaunnation, separation or disjdacement or bendinq may ta-ke place througlh the junction, and on the diaphysial side of the epiphysis, the epiphysial ilisc and the epiphysis itself being intact. The epiji/ij/xial cartilage may remain intact. or it may suffer from the infection. It may be partially destroyed by perforations or tunnels through its substance, or it may Ije completely destn)yed, while at the same time the periosteum surrounding the epiphysis may be lifted up Ijy pus. Wiiere it is completely destroyed, the bony surfaces of the diaphysis and of the epiphj'sis are opposed to each other by irregular erodetl surfaces l)athed with pus, and are only held together by periosteal attachments, or by the remains of these at the periphery. Displacement or separation of the epiiplii/sis (epiphysiolysis) may then take place by muscidar action or some movement of the limb. The destruction of the epiphysial disc may entail partial or more or less complete loss of its bone- forming finictions in the future, according to the pliysiological importance of the epiphysial disc concerned, iind consequent dwarfing of the l)one. There are exceptional cases in which destruction of the disc at one end of a bone has not inter- fei'ed with its symmetrical growth. Concerning necrosis in the e2)iphysis itself, it is usually partial in the form of small, central, spongy sequestra; the entire epiphysis very rarely dies, and separates as a sequestrum, e.i/. head of femur. T]ie adjacent joint may he influenced by tliv mere vicinity of the inflammation in the adjacent bone, in which case it fills with a serous effusion similar to that causing oedema in the soft parts. This effusion has been fomid sterile on exfuuination. When the joint is actually infected the lesion assinnes the characters of an infective arthritis, which, from its frequency during the earlier years of life, has been called the acute arthritis of infants. Repair.—Separation of the dead bone., and formation of new bone in its place. — When the acute stage of the process has subsided, a process of repair sets in; the latter goes on often under the most unfavourable conditions, in the shape of persistent suppuration and de- praved general health. The sub-periosteal ;aid medullary marrow, wherever it has retained its vit;dity, resumes its osteogenetic functions, often in an exaggerated or exalted manner. The initial changes in this direction consist, as in the repair of lesions in other tissues, in the transformation of the living i)eriosteTuu and marrow into granulation tissue. Wherever the periosteum has been lifted up from the shaft by an accinnulation of pus, or is in contact with bone which is dead, it proceeds to form new bone with great activity ; the new bone thus formed is distinct from that which has perished ; hence, in the course of time the dead shaft becomes invested or surrounded by a tube, sheath, case, or involucruni of new bone, more or less complete, according to the integrity of the periosteum and extent of the necrosis. Wherever the periosteum has been perforated by the pus making its way to the skin surface, there will