525 BRAIX : CEREBELLUM, AFFECTIONS OF is best described in terms relating to a right- handed male screw, the animal being considered as a screw, and its head as corresponding to that of the screw. After removal of the right half of the cerebelhim the rotation is as if such a screw were entering an object, while in left- sided ablation the rotation is as if the screw were coming out of an oljject. Whether this phenomenon he present or not there is marked unsteadiness, and the inco-ordination may be so great that station and locomotion are made impossible. When progression is attempted the loss of balance may be evidenced by a pitching or falling away from the side of the lesion; ])ut from this must be carefully distinguished a tendency to fall to the side of the lesion in con- sequence of inco-ordination and motor paresis in the limbs on this side. Ferrier and Turner do not admit that any true paresis results, and like them I have been unable to find an efferent path direct from the cerebellum to the spinal cord, but their results accord with my own in tracing an efferent path through Deiters' nucleus, the tract occupying the antero-lateral region of the spinal cord on the same side in the position assigned by Marchi to the tract sup- posed by him and certain other observers to pass directly from the cerebellum and to degenerate after lesions limited to the cerebellum. I have shown that the motor disturbances met with in the limbs on the same side as a lesion of the cerebellum may possibly find explanation in the disturbance of the opposite cerebral cortex which results from a unilateral aljlation of the cerebellum. That it is, on the other hand, quite possible that efferent impulses normally reach the muscles of the limbs from the cerebellum b}^ way of the path that has been traced from this organ to the spinal cord through Deiters' nucleus, and that to cutting off of such impulses is to be attributed the paresis which results on cerebellar ablation, is made evident by the results of division of the inferior peduncle to- gether with the path from the cerebellum to Deiters' nucleus. The attitvde after I'emoval of one half of the cerebellum is very chiiracteristic, and consists in curving of the neck and spine with the con- cavity to the side of the lesion, in addition to which the head is twisted on the neck in such a way that the side of the face corresponding to the side of the lesion is directed upwards. That the curving of the spine is the result of spasm of the muscles on the side of the concavity seems clear, in that attempts to unbend the spine meet with distinct resistance, and on desisting the spine immediately becomes arched as before. S2'>a,sm is also evident in the muscles of the limbs on the side of the lesion, notably the fore limb, which is commonly extended in tonic spasm. The immediate effect noted in regard to the tendon jerks after the influence of the anEesthetic has passed off is an increase of the knee-jerk on the side of the lesion and diminution of that on the opposite side; but in the course of forty-eight hours the opposite knee-jerk also becomes exaggerated to a degree that may make it impossible to say which is the more increased of the two. In the course of some weeks the knee-jerks gradually become less active, and wliile that on the side of the lesion remains more active than normal, in two or three months the opposite knee-jerk has returned to about normal. It is admittedly very difficult to test the con- dition of cutaneous smsihility in animals ; never- theless, in my experiments I was able to deter- mine what appeared to be distinct blunting of sensibility, most marked in the limbs on the side of the lesion, and present in lesser degree in the posterior liinlj of the opposite side. The octdar displncement which results from unilateral ablation is, according to Luciani, one in which both eyes are txirned to the opposite side. I have not been able to satisfy myself that there is much displacement of the eye on the same side as the lesion, but the opposite eye is always turned outwards and downwards to a variable degree. There is also nystagmus, which is most marked when the animal is in- duced to look towards the side of the lesion, and which consists in lateral jerking of the globes. So striking and pronounced are the disturb- ances of equilibration and other defects conse- quent on experimental lesions of the cerebellum, that it is most surprising how rapidly compensa- tion is eftected, for in the course of two or three months such animals might pass as normal, even to the expei-ienced eye, until certain minute examinations are made. Luciani has, however, shown that such compensation is not eftected if the sensorimotor cortex of the Rolandic region of the cerebrum be also de- stroyed. The cerebellum is prone to the same diseases as attack other parts of the central nervous system. Hasmorrhage, softening, abscess, tumour, develojamental defects, atrophy, and degenera- tion ai'e all met with, but the frequency with whicli they occur varies greatly, both as com- pared one with another and with similar affections of the cerebrum. Hajmorrhage and softening from vascular occlusion are infinitely mor-e common in the cerebrum than in the cerebellum, whereas the latter organ supplies no small proportion of the total number of tumours and abscesses that occur within the ci'anial cavity. Indeed, bulk for l)ulk, the cerebellar tissue seems more liable to engender new growths than does that of the cerebrum. H/EMORRHAGE into the cerebellum is a rare condition, is as a rule large, and connnonly ploughs up the lateral lobe of one side, much of the middle lobe, and may even encroach to some extent into the opposite lateral lobe. The lilood may, further, make its way beyond the limits