ABDOMEN, INJURIES OF 8 The prognosis in cases of ruptured viscera is not so favourable when operation is performed after peritonitis has commenced ; and it may be stated in general terms that the longer the opera- tion is delayed the greater ivill he the mortality ; for death usually occurs within forty-eight hours after the receipt of the injury in cases of this nature in which no operation is performed. The causes of death are shock and haemor- rhage in the earlier, and peritonitis in the later stages. Contusions unassociated with visceral compli- cations end favourably, unless death should occur from the immediate shock ; but the siibse- quent formation of a ventral hernia, as a remote consequence of sloughing of the parietes or rupture of the rectus muscle, must be borne in mind. Treatment {General).—It will be gathered from what has been said as to the impossibility of relying upon the degree of shock as an index of the severity of the mischief, that it is desirable to treat any abdominal injury, though supposed to be of a simple nature, with the most careful attention. The treatment of shock should be the first consideration. The patient must be placed with the head low, surrounded by hot bottles and blankets. Strychnine (gr. ^) alone, or in combination with digitalin (gr. y^-) or ether (sj.)—^when administered hypodermically— is one of the best means of combating shock. Two ounces of brandy mixed with warm water may be administered by the rectum ; though it is necessary to exercise a wise discretion in the use of any stimulant, if the condition is due to hsemorrhage. All fluids by the mouth must be withheld, lest there be some visceral complica- tion, such as ruptured stomach, which would allow the escape of fluids into the peritoneal cavity. In urgent cases hypodermoclysis—half a pint or more of normal saline solution at a temperature of 100° F. being injected into the submammary tissue — or transfusion may be resorted to. A hypodermic injection of morphine will relieve pain and improve the pulse, but it should be avoided in severe degrees of shock. Fomentations may be applied to the abdomen if pain is great, provided there are no signs of profuse hsemorrhage. The bladder may require attention, as reten- tion of urine is not uncommon during the stage of shock. Moreover, the use of the catheter is desirable in most cases where the shock is profound, for by this means we may arrive at a diagnosis of the cause of the symptoms. The accumulation of blood between the muscular planes from laceration of the deep epigastric artery is difficult of recognition; but if the signs were sufficiently definite it would be justifiable to make an incision with a view to tying the vessel above and below the seat of injury. If, after the adoption of this mode of treat- ment, the patient gradually improves, and it becomes evident that the effect of the contusion is limited to the abdominal wall, the shoulders should be raised and the thighs flexed so as to relax the muscles, and the case treated on ordinary principles. On the other hand, where the symptoms are indicative of severe intra-abdominal hasmorrhage or rupture of a viscus, coeliotomy should at once be performed, unless the shock is so profound as to produce cyanosis, an extremely low temperature, and an imperceptible pulse—death being clearly imminent. With obvious indications of visceral mischief it is easy to know what to do; but the un- reliability of the significance of mere shock, which has repeatedly been insisted on, leaves us frequently in doubt as to the best coui-se to pursue. In such cases we should carefully watch the progress of the symptoms for a time; and, should the patient get steadily worse, or should the phenomena of shock show no signs of improvement in the course of twelve hours at the most, it would be wiser to institute an exploratory coeliotomy without further delay. Little harm is likely to accrue from such an operation—even should it be found that it was unnecessary,—whereas a further prolongation of the time of operative interference, in cases in which a severe intra-abdominal lesion exists, is fraught with danger. If delay has, unfortu- nately, occurred until peritonitis has developed, operation is by no means hopeless, though such cases are far less favourable than those under- taken soon after the accident. The incision in the parietes sliould be made as nearly as possible over the viscus affected ; but whei'e the localisation of the lesion is uncer- tain, a median incision is the best for exploi'atory purposes. Treatment {Special).—The abdomen being opened, and the lesion found, the necessary reparative measures will vary according to the seat of injury. If the STOMACH is found to be ruptured, the perforation should be closed by a double row of Lembert sutures, after any bleeding vessel has been secured. Should the wound be on the posterior surface, it will be necessary to divide the gastro-colic omentum befoi-e closure can be effected. If there be any difficulty in finding the rent, the inflation of the organ by hydrogen gas passed through an oesophageal tube is useful. After the repair of the wound, the abdomen should be cleansed of the escaped stomach-contents by sponging, or by flushing with normal saline solution. Drainage will be necessary if the stomach-contents have been widely extravasated. If the INTESTINE is believed to be ruptured, but the tear cannot be found, the inflation of the bowels by hydrogen gas through the rectum.