41 ACNE <levelopment, but sometimes persisting much later. It is characterised by the presence on an oily, discoloured, thick-looking skin of a poly- morphic eruption, presented all together or in successive evolution and in A'arying proportions ; first, black-headed plugs, called comedones (A. punctata), in the mouths of the follicles, which exceptionally ma\' go on to form sebaceous cysts, from a pea to a nut in size ; secondly, a greater or less abundance of painfid, conical or hemi- sphericid, inflannnatory papules and superficial ur deeper pustules centred by comedones (A. papulosa et pustulosa), from a pin-head to a pea in size, and even sm<dl abscesses; thirdly, red, hard, painful nodosities (A. indurata, A. tul)e- rosa), which are true graiudomata, according to Unna. These inflammatory elements leave macides and flattened scars, and sometimes a curious deformity by confluence of diseased follicles, known as double or treble comedones. By pi'essure the contents of the follicles and ])ustules can lie extruded. This affection is said to be most connnon in dark males. All tlegrees of severity are met with. Sometimes the comedones and greasy skin are the pro- minent featiu-e, but, on the other hand, most severe cases may be met with in which the back especially is thickly covered with small phleg- mons and abscesses. Acne is often associated with a defective general nutrition and sluggish circulation, chronic dyspepsia, constipation, auicmia, and menstrual disturbances in tlie inmiature sub- jects it affects, and these conditions, as well as in-egularities of diet, self-alnise, or, on the other hand, chastity, have been assigned by various authors as predisposing or exciting or intensify- ing factors. Kaposi states the old view, that the affection is an anomaly of secretion and excretion of the sebaceous glands, and that the inflammation is provoked in the tissues surrounding the sebaceous glands and hair- follicles with their common excretory duct by the retained secretion, mechanically or by chemical decomposition. It is obvious that tlie affection occurs at a time when the functions of sebaceous secretion and hair-growth are active, but whether it should ]>e regarded as a local developmental aberration solely', or intensihed or excited by general states, is in dispute. The elaborate investigations of recent years have, however, started other views which are of interest. Sahourmid holds that the foundation of the affection is an oily seborrlitra, due to a micro - bacillus, which is associated with the formation of little cocoons in the mouths of the j)ilo-sebaceous follicles. In support of this view we may note the plugging of the follicles, apart from the formation of comedones and the frequent presence of seborrluric catarrh of the scalp. Amongst the thousands of cocoons, some enlai'ge and become monstrous and de- generated (comedones). The latter contain within the much-thickened envelope of corneous epithelium colossal pure colonies of a micro- bacillus, and 2-4-6-8 atrophied, recurved, dead, downy hairs, representing the frustrated efforts at a growth of hair. A comedo is also inider- going degeneration and destruction, and its summit and exterior envelopes are therefore always sown with various secondaiy infections (one can meet with half a score), which give the characters to the various manifestations of poly- morphous acne. Two of these secondary in- fections are constant, viz. Unna's bottle-bacillus, discovered by Malassez in 1875, which appears to be without pathogenic significance, and a white coccus, different from the white staphylo- coccus, which apparently causes the intradermic inflammatory nodides and abscesses. In some cases, according to Sabouraud, furuncles form due to the golden staphylococcus lurking in the outer envelopes. Unna's view is somewhat different. Associated with a frequent activity of the coil glands (hyperidrosis oleosa) there is a hyperkeratosis with thickening of the horny and granular layers, which extends into the follicle mouths and leads to the formation of the horny cysts, called comedones, in the dilated mouths of the connnon opening of the sebaceous duct with its appended lanugo-hair. The sebum is danmied back and may sometimes, with distorted lanugo- hairs, be enclosed in the cyst, or the latter is generally incomplete at its inner end and terminates in sebum. The black head is not due to dirt but to a diffuse pigment. Almost every comedo contains a swarm of micro- organisms, often in pure culture, especially the kerato-philic oat-shaped bottle-bacillus and the diplococcus of seborrha'ic eczema, both chiefly localised in the head and mantle of the comedo, also a special mucus-producing bacillus,^ which from its constancy and position in the lower part of the comedo is pi'obably the actual cause of comedo-formation and of suppuration, which is not due to pyococci. He says there is no tendency to fiirunculosis. Unna dwells on the presence of a chronic progressive hyperplastic inflammation of the acne-skin (A. hypertrophica), most developed round the follicle, which causes a loss of elasticity and hence a pbigging of the follicles with retained sebum. This change is most developed round the follicles and pro- duces, in some cases, the nodules known as acne indurata, which, as Saliouraud also re- marks, abound in interesting types of cells. It does not lead to rhinophyma. Lonny concludes that the Staphylococcus albus is constantly present in the comedones and pustules, as in the skin which is not the seat of acne, and it ' Tliese bacilli are ^ to ^ fx broad by \^ to lA jx long, or half tliat length, and many show a constriction or un- stained cross-line in the centre. They are arranged like irregular bundles of spelicans, readily stained with basic aniline dyes, if not too old, and are completely decolorised by acids.