AIR, EXAMINATION OF 80 deal of organic decomposition taking place, con- tained as a mean of four experiments 0'13 mgrm., or about six times the amount. The following results per 1000 litres obtained in Glasgow show the increase in the amount of ammonia in the atmosphere on passing from the outskirts to the centre of a great city :— Western Infirmary . . 0'015 mgrm. Hospital, Kennedy St. . 0-019 „ Sailors' Home . . . 0-024 Calton . ... . 0-044 Stirling Square . . 0-053 ,, In the quantitative estimation of the ammonia in the atmosphere a large volume of air must be examined, and in no case should it be less than 250 litres. In the Edinburgh observations 1000 litres are examined in each experiment. The air is aspirated through ammonia-free water, and the amount of it determined by Nessler's reagent. A better though more laborious method is to aspirate through weak solution of hydrochloric acid the amount of ammonia in which has been previously deter- mined. By neutralising this with ammonia-free caustic alkali and then distilling, the amount of ammonia is determined by Nessler's reagent in the distillate. On deducting the amount of ammonia in the acid used, the remainder is the amount of ammonia in the air examined. Moisture.—Water vapour is a constant con- stituent of the atmosphere, but its amount is subject to great variations. When air at a given temperature contains as much water vapour as it can take up it is said to be satu- rated at that temperature, that is to say, if the temperature be lowered water will be deposited, while if the temperature be raised, the air ceases to be saturated and must take up more water in order to be saturated at the new temperature. The temperature of such saturated air is called its dew point, and for each such temperature there is a corresponding pressure of water vapour. In all books on meteorology there is given for each temperature the corresponding amount of water vapour in an atmosphere saturated at that temperature, expressed either in terms of the pressure it is exerting or of its weight in grains per cubic foot or grammes per cubic metre. The actual amount of water vapour in a given atmosphere is termed its absolute humidity, and is expressed in either of the ways above mentioned. The relative humidity is the relation between the amount of water vapour actually in the atmosphere and the amount of water vapour it could contain if it were saturated at the temperature, and is always expressed in percentages, complete satu- ration being 100. For example, an atmosphere whose relative humidity is 75 contains three- fourths of the amount of water vapour it could contain if it were saturated. Relative humidity is said by some to express the drying power of the air, that is, the amount of water vapour it can still take up. This is only true if, together with the relative humidity, the temperature of the air is also given, and even then it is not the clearest or simplest way of expressing it. If we compare two atmospheres, both with 75 per cent of relative humidity, but the temperature of the one is 50° F. and of the other 70° F., the drying power of the former is only one-half that of the latter. This drying power, as Flugge first pointed out, is better expressed by the term "defect of saturation," that is, the difference between the pressure of water vapour at the temperature of the dew point and at the tempera- ture of the air. Still the atmosphere may have a great drying power though the defect of saturation is small. MiddendorfF states that in East Siberia, with the temperature much below freezing point, where therefore both the absolute humidity and defect of saturation were insignifi- cant, the drying power was such that fur coats made moist by perspiration when spread on the snow at night were quite dry in the morning. There is more water vapour in the atmo- sphere at the tropics than at the poles, more at sea than on land, and the amount on land diminishes on going inland. It is greater in summer than in winter, and at mid-day than at morning and night. Proximity to large sheets of evaporating surface, whether marshes, lakes, or seas, associated with high temperature and absence of wind, are the conditions which pro- duce a high amount of atmospheric moisture. But these are much affected by winds. At Cape Juby, on the extreme east coast of Morocco, where the conditions of high atmospheric moist- ure are present, when the strong hot east wind from the desert is blowing, the relative humidity may fall to 18 per cent. Madeira and the Canary Islands are affected by a similar wind called Leste or east wind. In Funchal, 80 miles from the African coast, the relative humidity has been observed to fall to 20 per cent. The absolute humidity of the atmosphere rapidly decreases on ascending high mountains. This decrease is more rapid than the decrease of atmospheric pressure. The relative humidity is little changed. At great elevations in the Alpine districts the atmosphere is driest and the sky freest from clouds in winter. The drying power of the air is very great at this season, and is dependent not only on the low relative humidity but perhaps chiefly on the diminished pressure favouring evaporation. Dead animals mummify rather than putrefy, and in the lower Engadin air-dried flesh is a common article of food among the people. Both indirectly and directly the atmospheric moisture has an important influence on health. When in the form of droplets, as clouds, it cer- tainly reduces the effects of solar and of ter- restrial radiation, and thus lessens the daily range of temperature in hot regions. In high