ABORTION P.1 munity. Tlie frequency of criminal abortions in England came prominently to view in June 1898, when Dr. Collins was sentenced to seven yearn' penal servitude for having procured abortion in a married lady who died of septic peritonitis, and when the jury took occasion " to express their deep concern at and con- demnation of the growing tendency on the part of certain classes of the community, as proved by the evidence in this case, to avail themselves of their marital rights, and to try to evade the responsibility of their acts." In December 1898 three brothers Chrimes were sentenced to penal servitude—the two elder for twelve, and the youngest for seven years—for blackmailing women who had been foolish enough to purchase some of the medicines that are so widely advertised for female " irregularities." They had addressed missives demanding two guineas on pain of arrest to such a number of these deluded women that after the police had got possession of the office hired by the miscreants, they intercepted in the course of two days as many as six hundred letters, each containing two guineas. The women who subject themselves to this nefarious practice may be unmarried, or widows, or wives living apart from their husbands, who desire to be freed from the fruit of illicit inter- course. Too frequently women living in lawful wedlock are so depraved as to seek the aid of the abortionist when they have conceived in spite of the use of what they had trusted in as preventives. The abortionist may be a degraded, perhaps, like Collins, a dis-registered, medical practitioner. His guilt comes to light when one of his patients becomes the subject of some dangerous or deadly illness, and a con- sultant is called in to see her. The woman is likely then to confess the origin of her trouble, and the consultant finds the uterus still large and hajmorrhagic. When the patient dies, the hypertrophic uterus will be found showing traces of recent decidnation, and in some cases it is imperfectly evacuated. The genital organs may show traces of damage from the maladroit use of implements. In the case for which Whit- marsh was sentenced in October 1898 for causing the death of a young unmarried woman in whom he had illegally procured abortion, death was due to mercurial poisoning. After Tising a sound he had injected corrosive sub- limate, probably as an antiseptic, liut in such strong solution that it had caused sloughing of the canals and allowed of the absorption of the poison into the system. If the medical man who has procured the abortion has alleged the existence of local disease such as perimetric adhesions of a displaced uterus as the excuse for his interference, the post-mortem examina- tion will usually reveal the futility of the allegation. If it is alleged that the patient has been the subject of some general condition calling for interruption of gestation, it will be necessary to adduce evidence other than that of the accused. And in any case it should tell against a medical man suspected of having procured abortion in a case of simple pregnancy that he has had recourse to such a questionable procedure at his own instance and without consultation with another practitioner. The abortion is sometimes brought on at the instance of the woman herself, sometimes at the suggestion of the father of her child ; and the means employed may be self-adopted, or may be prescribed, administered, or applied by another. In some instances women have feigned to have aborted in order to incriminate some one, or to secure compensation for the alleged damage in a railway or other accident. In others, women who mistakenly sujjposed them- selves pregnant have damaged their health by the use of drugs or even produced fatal injiunes by the employment of instruments intended to procure abortion. The means employed to bring about abortion are very various. A long array of drugs has been enumerated that are supposed to have abortifacient properties. Those in popular estimation are ergot, savin, rue, tansy, cotton- root ; and aloes, colocynth, and other powerful purgatives. Where drugs fail of their effect, recourse will be had to frequent hot or cold or medicated vaginal douches, or to the introduc- tion of irritant pessaries, or the. woman is subjected to severe exertions, riding on horse- back, leaping from a height, and such like. More direct measures are employed with greater effect. Tents of tupelo or sea-tangle are intro- duced into the cavity, which produce their effect by expanding the cervix and stimulating the uterus. Oi' a sound is passed into the cavity and moved around the walls so as to separate the ovum from its attachments, or to burst the membranes of the ovum and allow of the escape of the liquor amnii. For this last purpose women have been known to make use for themselves of a knitting needle, a crochet needle, or an umbrella rib. The apparatus of an abortionist may be illus- trated by the contents of the bag of a woman Graham who was sentenced in Edinburgh in December 1897 to five years' penal servitude for the illegal procuring of abortion. Besides a pessary or two and some condoms, she had an ergot bottle, a box of aperient pills, a syringe, some tupelo tents, a speculum, a sound, and an old gum-elastic male catheter and stilet. No woman who was not following the felonious practice of an abortionist could be possessed of such a set of implements, and every owner of such a bag would sufter no injustice if she were sent for five years to a felon's cell. Abortive. — (l) Imperfectly developed: (2) causing abortion ; (3) arresting. Thus an