531 BRAIN: CEREBELLUM, AFFECTIONS OF Etiology.—The principal fact in the etiology of the affection is its tendency to attack several members of the same family. The age of onset is, as a rule, after twenty. Practically nothing- is known of any exciting cause, and though tubercle is not uncommon in such families, and alcoholism in a parent has been observed, it is doulitful if any significance is to be attached to these. Morbid Anatomy and Pathology.—The num- ber of cases from which we have to form our conception of the morbid anatomy and pathology of the disease are few, and in these the changes haA'e not been uniformly the same. In one case there was widespread atrophy of the nervous system including the cerebellum; in a second there was degeneration of the spinal cord as well as of the cerebellum; in a third the cere- bellum was atrophied, l)ut no change was detected in the spinal cord by the methods of examination then in vogue ; and in a fourch there Avas no circumscribed lesion of the cere- bellum, and only a slight decrease in the number of Purkinje's cells, while there was diffuse deterioration of the afferent cerebellar system, especially of the direct cerebellar tracts. The essential feature of tlie lesions appears to be a simple degeneration of the nerve elements with- out sclerosis or evidence of past meningitis. The resemblance of the leading symptoms to those caused by experimental and other lesions of the cerel)ellum has been regarded as evidence that tliis organ is the seat of the disease; but from what has been said of the morbid anatomy of the affection it is clear that this belief is not strictly borne out. Symptoms. — The prominent symptoms are cerebellar in type. Disturbance of eqnilihration is evidenced by unsteadiness on standing which is not increased when the eyes are closed, and a reeling gait, though true inco-ordination of the lower extremities may be present, especially in an advanced stage of the disease. The head par- ticipates in the unsteadiness, while the amount of this defect in the upper extremities varies with the stage of the disease ; at first it is only an uncertainty, and then a tremor on voluntary movement as the hand nears the object aimed at, though later much coarser tremor is observed. Spontaneous choreiform-like movements occur in all parts of the body. True motor paralysis ' does not occur, but another motor defect met with in these cases is an inability to relax muscles that have been contracted, so that an <)l)ject may be retained in the grasp longer than is dictated by the will. So, too, there is a tendency to associated over-action of the facial muscles, as evidenced by wrinkling of the fore- head, wide opening of the eyes, exaggeration of the naso-labial fold and the like, when the patient speaks or performs any other facial movement. Apart from this the expression is dull and heavy. Intelligence is sometimes I blunted and memory impaired, while irritability I may be a feature in some of the cases. They speak in a monotonous way with a guttural voice, which may, however, change somewhat suddenly to a higher pitch, and words and syl- lables are emitted in a jerky, explosive manner. The ocular phenomena met with are important from a diagnostic standpoint. Amblyopia con- sequent on optic atrophy is constant. There is instability of globes, so that on fixation irregular, jerky movements are evoked similar to those that are observed in the limbs. Ocular ptalsies have also been present in some cases. Sensory phenomena are not prominent, though in some vertigo has been marked, so, too, headache, vague pains about the body, or shooting in character in the legs, and numbness have all been noted; but there is no blunting of cutaneous sensibility, and muscular sense is normal. The tendon jerks are normal or exaggerated. Difficulties of deglutition and micturition have been present in some cases. The chief clinical distinctions between this affection and Friedreich's ataxy are to be found in the usual onset of the disease after the age of twenty, the presence of optic atrophy, the increase of the knee-jerks, and the absence of deformities such as scoliosis and talipes, for in Friedreich's disease the symptoms as a rule commence much earlier, optic atrophy does not occur, the knee-jerks are abolished, and spinal curvature and pes cavus are prominent features. Diagnosis ov Cerebellar Affections.—The points on which we rely as evidence that the cerebellum is the seat of disease have been sufficiently indicated in the accounts of the symptomatology of the different affections to which the organ is prone, and therefore need not be recapitulated. The considerations which aid us in the diagnosis of the nature of the disease do not differ from those on which we rely when other parts of the nervous system are affected. Prognosis.—Hfcmorrhage is commonly fatal, while thrombosis is of much less serious import, except in those cases in which the vertebral is occluded. According to Preston the average duration of life in cerebellar tumours is two years. The close proximity of the organ to the pons and medulla naturally allows of serious pressure on these structures, so that sudden death from failure of respiration is not an uncommon event. On the other hand, remis- sions may occur in the symptoms, and such patients may live for years, though blind. Atrophy of the cerebellum is compatible witli comparatively long life. Treatment.—The fact that the morbid con- dition is in the cerebellum does not make it necessary that the methods adopted in its treat- ment should be different from those employed when similar diseases attack other parts of the central nervous system.