ANTITUSSIN 225 AntitUSSin. -Uiriuor-diphwiyl, ((J,;H^F)o; used ill wliddpiiin-coiinli. Antityphoid Serum.—A sLium used as ;i propliybictic apuiist typhoid fever; anti- enteric serum. See Therapeutics, Serum Therapy. Antivenene (Antivenin). - A serum iiseil in the treatment snake-l)ites. See Snake-Bites {Serum, Therapy); Thera- peutics, Serum Therapy. AntrOCele.—A riuid aceumuhition in the luaxillary antrum. Antrum. See Ear, Middle {Mastoid); Nose, Diseases of Na.sal Orifices; Nose, AccB.ssoRY Sinuses, Inflammation uk ; Teeth {Antrum Evipyermi). Ants. See Myiasis. Anuria..—Suppression of or diminution in the excretion of urine. See Hysteria ; Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Movable Kidney, Calculus); Urination, Disorders of {Anuria). Anus. See Rectum, Diseases of the ; also Eczema; Uastiio - Intestinal Disorders of Infancy ; Syphilis {Condylofnata.). Anxieta,S.—Mental agitation with a sense of precordial oppression, as in heart disease, lief ore death, etc. Aorta,. See Aneurysm ; Aorta, Thoracic ; Arteries, Diseases of ; Chest-Wall, Affec- itons of ; HyEMATBMESis ; Heart, Physiology OF {£m/jryolo(/y); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium ; Heart, Congenital Malforma- tions OF ; Labour, Post-partum HiEMORRHAGE ; Lungs, Vascular Disorders ; CEsophagus ; I'ost-mortem Methods; Pulse; Rheumatism: Syphilis ; Thymus Gland. Aorta (Tiioracic), Aneurysm and Dilatation of. I'atii()L(igy ...... 225 I'hysical Signs 226 Symptoms ...... 228 Course and Termination . . . 231 Treatment . . . . . .231 Pathology. — The existence of intrathoracic aneurysm probably always implies changes in the vascular coats preceding the local dilatation, which may be accidental in the sense of its being the result of some sudden effort made by the patient and consequent sudden strain upon the weakened aortic wall. The history of a severe blow over the upper part of the chest is not very rare in cases of aneurysm of the arch. In a case of abdominal aneurysm under the care of the writer, the patient, a man under thirty years of age, received a severe blow on the abdomen, and VOL. I two years later came to hospital suffering as stated. A large aneurysm was found post- mortem associated with profound disease of the abdominal aorta, the rest of the arterial systent being practically sound. Dr. Kelynack has- related to the writer a case in which the aorta was cut across by the slipping down of a gas- meter upon the patient's abdomen, though there was no injury to any part of the intestine, and on\y a bruise on the anterior abdominal wall. The h;emorrhage was entirely retro-peritoneal. The relationship of habitual severe physical efTort to aneurysm, again, seems to be well founded, and in a proportion of cases a part in the degenerative process that precedes the yield- ing of the vascular wall may with likelihood be attributed to syphilis. Especially is this so in the younger subjects of aneurysm who have been also subjected to physical strain. As might naturally be supposed, middle age is the usual period of development of aneurysm when the aorta tends to become degenerated by the atheromatous process, and the patient is still active. Exceptionally typical aneurysm arises at a comparatively early age, as in a case of the writer's in which the patient was a man aged twenty-two, wlio had never had syphilis, and who had not been exposed to physical effort. The origin, thus, of a few cases is quite obscure, and some congenital imperfection of structure is suggested. Clinically the division of aneurysms into classes, according to their shape, structure of their coats, and the relation of the blood to tliese, etc., is of little or no importance, apart from the fact that some of the terms, as true and false aneurysm, have actually been used in opposite senses. For the clinician an aneurysm is a special kind of tumour, and its symptoms for the most part are those of pressure on surround- ing structures. It has no auscultatory sign, moreover, that is not represented in simple dila- tation of the arch, in which condition pressure symptoms are practically absent. The peculiarly destructive property of aneurysmal pressure, so well illustrated by its destruction of bone that may obstruct its expansion, is probably as.so- ciated, not only with the high degree of pres- sure, but to some extent also with the incessant variation from maximum to minimum blood- pressure as the result of cai'diac contraction. It is not surprising, moreover, that living tissues should resent such pressure by generally undergoing inflammatory changes, and finally atrophj'. This is well seen in the case of absorption of the bodies of the vertebrae before advancing aneurysm, while the more lowly organised and somewhat yielding intervertebral discs are w^ell preserved. The pathological process in the coats of the aorta itself has been referred to as degenerative, and so essentially it is, though an inflammatory process of low intensity is clearly indicated in '15