447 BONE, DISEASES OF blade deformity of the tibia (of French authors) has this complicated origin; the bone appears to be curved with the convexity forwards, the result of bossing or heaping up of bone along the anterior edge; at the same time it may be thickened, sclerosed, and it may be also length- ened. The loss of the crest of the shin may be more evident in other cases, the anterior surface of the bone being flat or rounded. Clinical Features of the Lesions in Ad- vanced Syphilis.—The pains are much more intense than during the so-called secondary period, and are described as boring as if a gimlet were being driven into the bone. They are worse at night, and may prevent sleep. They have been ascribed to the compression of the nerves of the bone as they pass through the sclerosed haversian canals, and marrow generally. The bones on inspection may present evidences of the various anatomical changes described above; the bones involved being superficial, they lend themselves to visual and digital ex- amination. The occurrence of a circumscribed smooth swelling is characteristic of the 2^6fiosteal gumma. The centre is soft and elastic; the margins are firm, hard, and shade off into the surroimding bone. The skin is free over the swelling. Recovery may ensue with or without the formation of a densely hard node, or the gumma softens in its centre, the skin becomes adherent, thin, and red, and finally gives way, and a thin watery fluid escapes. Through the opening one may see the tough, chamois-leather- like gummatous tissue. The opening in the skin jjersists as a sinus, or it becomes an ulcer with irregular crescentic margins; a probe reveals the presence of disintegrating bone (caries) or an actual sequestnuii (necrosis). There is superadded pyogenic infection. The disease is most inveterate ; changes in the direction of repair and of separation of a sequestrum are extremely slow. Persistence of discharge impairs the general health and may result in waxy degeneration in the viscera. The injurious influence on the health is chiefly the result of superadded pyo- genic infection and the absorption of toxines. The waxy disease is recovered from, if the bone disease is cured. Central gummata in the long bones may not reveal their presence unless they give rise to spontaneous fracture, or until they invade an adjacent joint, or until they erupt through the shell of the bone and reach the periosteal sur- face. In the latter case there may be the same sequence of events as described in the periosteal gumma. 21ie Deformities of the long bones have been sufliciently described. In the skull, in addition to the changes which are common to it and the long bones, there are certain special features. Where there is con- siderable new formation on the internal surface of the skull there may be pressure on the brain and consequent headache, epilepsy, paralysis, or pressure on nerves, especially at their point of exit from the skull. Where gummatous disease has burst on the skin surface and there is super- added pyogenic infection, there may be not only the most persistent sinuses or ulcers with sequestra, but there may be serious intra-cranial complications of the nature of abscess, menin- gitis, or pyaemia. In the nose, the disease may be characterised by gradually increasing deformity, by stinking discharge, by epiphora, lachrymal abscess, and fistula; in the palate by the formation of per- forations and consequent alteration of speech ; in the wall of the orbit by exophthalmos and paralysis of the muscles of the eye. Ilie diagnosis of the syphilitic nature of any given disease of bone is materially assisted if the practitioner entertains a suspicion to this effect, for his attention is then directed to the fact that the disease has selected certain situations, to the history of the patient, and to search for other evidences of the disease. The diseases most liable to be mistaken for it are chronic staphylococcns osteomyelitis, sarcovia, ayid tuberculosis. In the latter, assistance will be derived from remembering its frequent local- isation in the epiphyses, the absence of nocturnal pains, the frequent termination in suppuration, and the inefficacy of specific medicines. Syphilitic diseases of bone are much less common, they more often involve the shaft of the bone, are more often periosteal, and they rarely involve adjacent joints. Treatjient. — III the stage of gummatous granulation tissue the internal administration of mercury and of iodide of potassium, along with the local application of blisters, is usually followed by the rapid relief from pain, and the disappeai'ance or absorption of the gummatous tissue. A periosteal gumma need not be incised, even although it is softened and the skin is red over it. In advanced cases, where the bone has under- gone structural alterations (hyperostosis and sclerosis), or where there are sinuses, suppura- tion, and necrosis, the specific remedies may have little effect either in alleviating the symptoms or in bringing about recovery, or may only afford relief during their administration, and the disease relapses as soon as they are left off. The general health must be improved. A sea-voyage or a sojourn at some resort such as Aix-la- Chapelle may be recommended. In cases of persistent or relapsing gummatous disease of the bone with ulceration of the skin over it, along with the constitutional treatment, it is better to adopt the same methods of surgical treatment as have been recommended in tuberculosis. The diseased soft parts are to be removed with the spoon and scissors, and the diseased bone gouged or chiselled away, includ-