353 BALNEOLOGY to general eliniinative treatment tliermal baths are often employed, and especially the peat bath, to which douches may be afterwards added. (b) Central affections.—In cases of "spinal neurasthenia," and in the early stages of tabes dorsalis and other forms of spinal paralysis, especially in syphilitic subjects, spinal douches, subthermal and peat batlis are commonly pre- scribed. With regard to purely functional disorders, it may be stated that conditions of general sluggishness or debility on the one hand, and of nervous erythism or excitement on the other, can be readily influenced by an appro- priate stimulant, or sedative, bath treatment. The first group includes most cases of " hysteri- cal " and other functional paralyses, for w'hich a tonic and stinndant regimen is required. In the second group are many sufficiently serious conditions of irrital)ility and hyper-sensitiveness of the nervous centres, for which a gentle and continuous sedative action is required. 5. Results of Inflamjiatiox. — Special military establishments are provided at some of the French and Italian spas, where inflam- matory thickenings, contractions, and adhesions resulting from wounds and injuries are removed by a course of thermal treatment. Increased tissue change, which may probably become more active in recently or partially organised tissues than in healthy parts, and the heightened power of absorption from stimulation of the general and lymphatic circulations, no doubt explain these results. In the same manner effusions and adhesions, the result of general or local {e.g. pelvic) peritonitis, or pleuritis, with the chronic congestion and other symptoms to which they give rise, are often successfully treated by balneo-therapeutic measures. The author would here subjoin a series of Rules of Practice and Practical Observations from his own experience with reference to the treatment of patients by baths :— 1. Before baths of any kind are employed an examination of the cardio-vascular systetn should be made, and a general view arrived at as to its structural and functional condition. The effect of the baths on the circulatory organs must be carefully watched throughout the treatment. 2. Age and Sex. — In children and in advanced life extreme temperatures should be almost always avoided. Baths at or near the point of thermal indilTerence are well borne in the old, and are often very beneficial. The same rule applies to women at the climacteric epoch. No mineral baths should be used during the menstrual period. 3. The effect of every bath, of whatever kind, is, in each particular case, either sedative or stimulant. The alternative will often depend on a very narrow range of temperature or duration, or even on the condition of the patient VOL. I as affected by the time of day, the taking of rest, food, etc. It is thei'efore needful to discover and utilise the means by which the desired effect can be obtained, especially in cases of circulatory disorder. 4. The dwratirm of Thermal baths and the length of the course must be regulated with care. They must never be so prolonged as to cause marked or persistent debility. 5. As it is the tendency both of mineral waters and baths to increase congestion or inflammatory reaction in affected tissues, they must never he employed in febrile or inflammatory states. The primw vice must be opened and visceral congestions and other acute derange- ments removed where necessary by preliminary treatment. 6. A certain recrudescence of symptoms in the affected parts is to be looked for as the natural effect of spa treatment. Within certain limits it is a favourable sign. The slow chronic action is replaced by a more acute phase of disturbance. When this presently subsides under the continu- ance of treatment a healthier action follows. In this sequence lies a principle governing the treatment of all chronic maladies. If the recrudescence of symptoms should be early or severe the treatment must be modified or intermitted, and l)atlis given less often or some- what cooler (less stinuilating). The reaction, marked by circulatory and nervous debility, that follows too prolonged or over-stimulating a course of baths is carefully to be avoided. 7. The amount of physical exercise permitted during the course of baths must be regulated for each case. In all cases of debility every exertion after the bath must be avoided, even that of dressing and the iise of stairs. The sedative effect of baths in circulatory affections is frequently neuti'alised by subsequent fatigue. The patient should be comfortably wrapped and rest in a cool dressing-room. The hot pack (French maillot) must not be used where a sedative effect is desii'ed. 8. The after-treatment, following immediately upon a course of baths, is a matter of conse- quence in many cases. In some a complete rest may be necessary, in all some degree of bracing is advisable. A week or two spent in some exhilarating climate among the hills or at the seaside, with pleasurable recreation, but without over-excitement or fatigue, should be prescribed in all cases in which a course of treatment has been taken for serious organic or functional malady. 9. The local enqiloyment of balneary remedies has an important place in spa ti'eatment. In many localised diseases {e.g. many cases of degenerative arthritis) a purely local thermal application is often beneficial wdien general thermal treatment is unnecessary or contra- indicated. The same applies to some conditions of debility, and to many cases in advanced life, 23