ALCOHOLIC INSANITY 93 a single patient or official in it. As usual in these amnesic insanities, he retains the images of long ago, and can recollect the facts of his boyhood. But he now has no consecutive con- sciousness. Much more common is a defect of recollection. The patient's brain retains images, but he cannot " lay his hand " on them. This disability is most pronounced as a form of aphasia. Many alcoholics can hardly finish a single sentence correctly, but, if they stick, they are aware that the word has just evaded them for the moment, and if they use a wrong word they may recognise that it is wrong. This defect of recollection may refer to special things. Many patients, for example, are specially unable to remember time. They do not recall meals, nights, mornings, and other landmarks which we unconsciously use to record the passing of hours and days. Other patients can remember what has gone, but cannot remember what is coming, or vice versa. Others have specialised forgetfulness of more curious sorts. The most grotesque mistakes depend upon a defect of recognition. The brain stores its images, recol- lection or representation of them is active, but mistakes occur when a judgment is asked which woidd confirm or deny identitj'. Thus many patients use the wrong words with complete assurance, or have a sense of recognition of new surroundings which ought to occur only in familiar circumstances. Mistakes as to the identity of people are very common. Some alcoholic patients will accept any evidence or suggestion as to who a man or woman is, and utterly fail of the corrective judgment which their senses ought to supply. It is an interesting- fact that such patients remember the personality of an acquaintance when they forget his appear- ance, and will invest the usurper with all the spiritual qualities of the person whom he im- personates, although there may be no obvious outward resemVilance whatever. In my opinion we have here again a convulsive or fulminating psychosis—a discharge in certain mechanisms which is automatic or nearly so. Assurance normally occurs to clinch a consecutive process of comparison when, by association, we reach given mechanisms, and discharge them with a result which is known in consciousness as certainty. But alcoholics have all the pleasant certainty of assurance at the wrong time or in a wrong connection, which betokens the instability of their mechanisms. A very curious and in- teresting defect—most common in senile cases— is an excess of reminiscence. When recent images have faded and are lost, old images, the memories of early life, come vividly into consciousness. Some old alcoholics will regale their audience by the hour with revived memories, and furnish them forth with a graphic circumstance and detailed realism which suggests that they imagine as much as they remember. This inability to discriminate between what might have been and what was, characterises the conversation of many alcoholics in a lesser degree. Some patients who are not greatly at fault in general, seem to have very little sense of probaVjility in reminiscence. 3. Cases characterised hy disproportionate defect of judgment.—Almost no one suffering from alco- holic insanity escapes delusions. That sense of probability, the abeyance of corrective judgment, which has been referred to in operations of the memory, may also be evident when actual and present facts are offered to the mind. In a great many cases the delusion or delusions are the most obvious fact in the disease. I have a patient now, a case of alcoholic insanity, who has the most elaborate and systematised delusion of persecution I have known. Most commonly the patient is haiuited by some kind of fear, and having once realised that, he deduces ad libitum and without almost any discrimination. Every- thing supports his premise. According to temperament, habit, or circumstance, the alco- holic fear may be interpreted in various ways. The most common delusions are—that attacks, are being made upon the person by a fell disease, by spirits, by electricity, or by a conspiracy of people ; that God has been mortally offended, and will punish eternally; that financial ruin is inevitable; that every one loathes and shuns the patient; or, more vaguely, that an unknown horror is impending. On the other hand, not a few cases exhibit exalted delusions. Many alcoholic cases greatly resemble general paralysis in the grandeur of their delusions, and others, without great extravagance, believe themselves to l)e specially worthy of praise and distinction. Many of the alcoholic expressions of innocence are as much delusion as deceit. The patient still believes in himself as a moral person, just as he still believes in his power to do well. Most important are delusions which have a basis in hallucination. The most grave thing about hallucinations of hearing, for example, is that the patient not only believes that these sounds have an objective occasion, but that he builds upon them a huge fabric of nonsense. That is the case with our patient last referred to. He has a complete and very complex system of false beliefs about a conspiracy of evil spirits who persecute him. He has, as has been commonly observed since Magnan described it, many per- versions of common sensibility and many painful parsesthesias, and these he attributes to devilish operations of his enemies. This is confirmed by the conversations which he holds with them— angry and long and loud. He has tanght his hallucinations to answer him, to hold coherent conversation with him, though, perhaps, as many dialecticians affirm, the remarks of the opposite party partake more of invective than of argument. When a patient gets that length— and it is not uncommon—he has most convincing reasons for his delusion. So deep and extensive