449 BONE, DISEASES OF The treatment of the preceding letsionw is that of inherited syphiHs {q.v.). The Lemons of the Bones in the Later Stages of Inherited Syphilis.—These, which niay occur at any time from the commencement of the second dentition up to maturity, correspond to the later or tertiary lesions in acquired syphilis. They differ from the latter inasmuch as they involve bones engaged in active growtli, they are met with fully more often at the ossifying junctions than in the shafts of bones, they may interfere with the future growth of the bones affected, and they are not nearly so amenable to the influence of iodide of potassium as those occurring in the tertiary manifestations of adults. A,s in the acquired disease, they may persist, or may come and go over periods of many years. Their anatomical and clinical features, as met with in the skull and in the long bones of the limbs, have been described in acquired syphilis. Syphilitic Dactylitis is a characteristic clinical type and merits special description. Although met with in acquii'ed syphilis it is more common in the inherited form, and in the latter may be met with in infancy or at any time up to twenty years. It affects the fingers more often than the toes, and both of these more often than the metacarpals or metatarsals. It is commonest in the region of the first phalanx of the index or thumb. It may affect several fingers and toes at the same time or in succession, one after another. Ana- tomically the lesion consists in a gummatous infiltration of the soft parts surrounding thi' phalanx or in a gununatous osteomyelitis and periostitis, or a combination (jf these. The segment of finger affected becomes very gradually swollen ; the swelling is more evident on the dorsum than on the palm, and it ter- minates abruptly at the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. According to the distribution and extent of the gummatous disease the swelling may be act)rn - shaped, fusiform, or cylindrical. The swelling is firm and elastic, and but slightly painful or tender. The movements of the finger are impaired, esjjecially if the disease involve one or more of the joints. In its early stages it is very amenable to treatment, and may recover and leave a perfectly normal finger. If left untreated, the degenerated gummatous tissue may approach the surface. The skin becomes thin, purple, and gives way, often on the lateral aspect of the finger, and a sinus persists. The disintegrated bone may crumble away and escape in the discharge ; the forma- tion of a visible sequestrum is exceptional. Loss of bone may result in shortening and deformity of the finger. The condition, especially in its early stage, is to be diagnosed from chondroma, and from tuberculous dactylitis; the latter is often diffi- VOL. I cult, and may be attained only by watching the effects of treatment. Skiagraphy may be in- structive and helpful in recognising tubercular cases where the phalanx is hollowed out and " expanded" in the form known as spina veiitosa; in syphilis it may show more sclerosis, and more new periosteal bone. The diagnosis and treatment of the lesions of the bones in the later stages of inherited syphilis are to be approached on similar lines to the acquired disease. Refei'ence has already been made to the comparative inefficacy of the iodide of potassium. Inveterate cases of bone disease from inherited syphilis are to be dealt with on very much the same lines as cases of tuberculous disease : improvement of the general health hy country or seaside air, by good food, by the administration of cod-liver oil, iron, and arsenic, and local surgical measures, consisting in the removal of gummatous granulation tissue and diseased bone where there is no prospect of spontaneous recovery. TuiMouRs OF Bone Primary tumours of bone grow from the marrow, periosteum, and, in the case of young bones, from cartilage; they are all of the con- nective tissue group, and include the types known as fibroma, myxoma, lipoma, chondroma, osteoma, and sarcoma. Secondary ta7)iours in- clude all those which are capable of giving rise to metastases in bones (carcinoma, tumours of thyroid), and those which spread to bones from other tissues by direct contiguity (epithelioma). They are distinguished, according to their seat, into periosteal and medullary. Periosteal tumoms are usually lateral in the first instance, but they may completely surround the bone ; they are bounded externally by the fibrous layer of the periosteum : the latter may, however, be invaded and perforated by the cellular elements of a malignant tumour ; in the long tubular bones the thick periosteum may materially retard the eruption of the growth into the overlying soft parts, whereas the thin periosteum of the flat bones, e.g. skull, has but little influence in this direction. Cen tral or medullary <«moMrs, whether circum- scribed or difi'use, usually lead to cellular ab- sorption of the bone in immediate relation to the tumour, while new bone is laid down externally. The bone as a whole may be very greatly increased in gii'th as a result of these processes, and is often described as having been " expanded" by the growth in its interior. Whether a central tumour erupts or not on the external surface of the bone, depends on the rapidity of the growth of the tumour and on the activity of the periosteum in forming new bone. The latter is greater in the long bones of the limbs than in the flat bones of the skull or trunk. Primary tumours of bone are usually solitary, "20