32 ABORTIVE abortive disease is one which begins as usual, but ceases to develop along the usual lines; abortive treatment is such as cuts short the ordinary course of a malady. See Malaria {Abortive or Larval). Aboulomania or Abulia.— That form of insanity in which inability to exert the will constitutes the sole aberration. Abrasion.—Loss of substance by ulcera- tion or by rubbing off; also the lesion thus produced. See Medicine, Forensic (Wounds). AbrUS precatorius.—Jequirity seeds or the seeds of Ahrus j>recatorius are used in the form of an infusion for some chronic eye diseases (opacities due to parenchymatous keratitis, etc.). Jequiritol is a stable solution of the active prin- ciple abrin. See Immunity. Abscess. See Suppuration. See also Abdominal Abscess ; Appendix Vermiformis {Abscess); Aspirator, Uses op ; Axilla, Diseases OF; Bone, Diseases of ; Brain, Tumours of, Surgery of {Cerebral Abscess); Broad Liga- ment, Diseases of ; Chest Wall, Affections of ; Glanders ; Joints, Diseases of ; Knbe- Joint, Diseases of ; Kidney, Surgical Affec- tions OF; Lacrimal Apparatus, Diseases of ; Leucocytosis ; Liver {Abscess of); Mediastinum; Meninges of the Cerebrum (Purulent Menin- gitis) ; Mouth, Injuries and Diseases of the Jaw ; Nose {Affections of the Septum Nasi); Ovaries, Diseases of ; Peritoneum, Acute Peritonitis ; Parotid Gland, Disorders of ; Pelvis, Diseases op the Cellular Tissue ; Pharynx, Retropharyngeal Abscess ; Puer- PERiuM, Pathology ; Py/EMIa ; Teeth {Abscess of the Pulp); Tonsils, Diseases of ; Typhoid Fever ; and Vessels {Atheroma). Absintilism {see also Alcohol).—The use of absinthe as a beverage is especially pre- valent in France. The practice of absinthe drinking is said to have been introduced into the country after the Algerian War (1844-47) by the soldiers, who had acquired the habit of using it as a febrifuge during the campaign. The use of it rapidly increased, and with such disastrous results that it has been described by French physicians as constituting a graver danger to public health than alcohol itself. Composition. — Absinthe is a liqueur, of an emerald - green colour, containing a high per- centage of alcohol, and various essences obtained by macerating in alcohol parts of several plants, especially species of wormwood (Artemisia), and star-anise (lUiciv/m anisatum); also sweet flag root (Acorus calamus), and angelica root (Arch- angelica officinalis). Symptoms. — Absinthism differs in many re- spects from alcoholism. In absinthism terrifying dreams and hallucinations, intellectual enfeeble- ment, stupor, may come on rapidly and in the entire absence of muscular tremor. If any tremor is present, it is usually confined to the upper extremities. Absinthe tipplers suffer from restlessness at night, dreams, anorexia, nausea, and vomiting, mental dulness, giddiness, and convulsions. Delirium or mania may occur, and eventually the patient may die in a condition of idiocy. The epileptiform convulsions form a very characteristic feature in absinthism, and are readily produced in animals. Mode of Action.—The phenomena of ab- sinthism are due to the stimulation of the cerebro-spinal nerve-centres, and especially, as Magnan long ago proved by experiments on animals, of the bulbo-cervical i-egion of the cord. The delirium and hallucinatory disturbances are due to a stimulation of the cerebral cortex, similar to that produced by haschish (Cannabis indica), belladonna, and hyoscyamus. Although some French authors have main- tained that the toxic effects of absinthe are simply those of the alcohol it contains, there seems to be no doubt that the nocuousness of absinthe far exceeds that of simple spirits. The special effects of absinthe appear to be due to the essence of absinthe, and perhaps to the essence of anise, which it contains. Much of the absinthe sold is adulterated. Copper salts even have been added to produce the green colour. According to Bernard Roux, wormwood (Artemisia absinthium) contains two active principles : a volatile oil, the essence of absinthe, and absinthin. The former alone is capable of producing an intoxication characterised by epi- leptiform convulsions. Treatment.—(See " Alcoholism "). Absorbents.—(l) Medicines (such as mercurials and the iodides) which lead or are supposed to lead to the absorption of morbid products. See Alteratives. (2) Lymphatic vessels or lacteals. (3) Dressings which act by absorbing liquids or gases. " Abstinenz Symptome." — The symptoms following the withdrawal of a drug which has been habitually taken. See Morphino- mania. Abu Rokab. See Dengue. Acacise Gummi.—Gum acacia. See Demulcents. Acaiypha. — A herb, Acalyplia indica, which acts as an emetic, a laxative, and an expectorant in bronchitis. Its preparations (Extractum Acalyphaj Liquidum—dose, 5 to 30 m.; Succus Acalyphai—dose, 1 to 4 fl. dr.) are officially used in India and elsewhere. Acanthoma.—A tumour formed by in- creased growth of the prickle-cell layer of the epidermis.