BERIBERI 372 perfectly well. He may lose his voice from implication of the laryngeal muscles; his breathing may also be affected from paresis of the diaphragm or of the intercostal muscles. Effusion into the serous cavities is compara- tively rare in this type of beriberi; urgent cardiac symptoms, although common enough, are also less frequent than in " wet" beriberi. The progress of such cases may be slow or rapid. In consequence of the high degree of atrophy complete recovery is necessarily a matter of months, and, if the patient remain in the endemic area, may be freqiiently inter- rupted by repeated relapse. When a case shows well-marked oedema and, at the same time, well-marked muscular paresis, it is said to be one of " mixed" beriberi. In such a case, on the disappearance of the oedema, the atrophy and hypersesthesia of the muscles are found to be marked. One type of beriberi may suddenly or more slowly assume the clinical characters of another —a "wet" case become "dry," or, vice versa, a " dry " case become " wet." Of the three types the " wet" form is the more dangerous, the " dry" being, as a rule, the less dangerous. Death, however, may occur, usually with sur- prising suddenness, in any of the types. It may be brought about by rapid increase of the dilatation of the right side of the heart—usually more or less marked in all cases of active beri- beri ; by syncope; by oedema of the lungs; by effusion into the pericardium or pleurae; by paralysis of the muscles of respiration ; or by a combination of these conditions. Implication of the pneumogastric, phrenic, or cardiac nerves —the pathological condition on which the fatal issue of these cases depends—takes place quite suddenly. It may occur in what appears to be in other respects a mild case; consequently prognosis in beriberi should always be very guarded. Mortality.—The mortality varies much ac- cording to the epidemic and the treatment. In some epidemics it has amounted to 50 per cent of those attacked; in others it has not exceeded 5 per cent. It is always highest where the patients are allowed to remain after attack in the endemic centre ; and especially so when the j^atients are crowded together in the building or ship in which their disease was con- tracted, and in which, it is to be presumed, poisoning is still going on. Morhid Anatomy.—The post-mortem appear- ances vary with the type of case. In di'opsical beriberi there is, of course, a large amount of serous infiltration of the tissues, and very often considerable serous accumulation in the pleurte, pericardium, and, more rarely, in the peritoneum. CEdema of the lungs is not unusual. In the paretic, atrophic, " dry" type, on the other hand, the tissues are abnormally dry. In both types the heart, more especially the right side, is dilated, and, perhaps, slightly hypertrophied. The right cavities and associated blood-vessels are distended with blood and may contain ante- mortem clot. Ecchymoses in the serous and mucous surfaces, and, occasionally, in the muscles and nerves, are common. Baelz and Scheube Avere the first to demon- strate the neiu-itis which is the fundamental lesion of this disease. The results of these observers were subsequently confirmed by Pekelharing and Winkler and others. The neuritis specially affects the motor fibres, and is always most marked at the periphery, diminishing in intensity as the nerve is traced towards the cord into which, according to most observers, the process does not extend. The microscopic characters of the lesion are those usual to multiple peripheral neuritis, and need not be described at this place. The muscles supplied by the affected nerves will be found to have undergone various degrees of degeneration. In some spots there are evidences of myositis; such have been specially observed in the cardiac muscle. Diagnosis.—In the tropics and sub-tropics, and in ships which have at some time visited the endemic centres of beriberi, epidemics of peripheral neuritis are almost invariably at- tributable to beriberi. Strachan [Practitioner, 1897, p. 477) has described a form of endemic neuritis, very common in certain districts of Jamaica, which, judging from the absence of oedema and the invariable implication of the cranial nerves, is not beriberi; but, with this exception, so far as is known at present, the generalisation just stated holds good. During such epidemics mild degrees of peripheral neur- itis, such as are evidenced by slight numbness of the skin of the legs, varying degrees of myalgia and weakness of the limbs, tenderness of the calf muscles, a tendency to palpitations and breathlessness, and slight oedema of the shins, are frequently encountered. Such cases are probably mild or larval forms of beriberi which may or may not proceed to fuller develop- ment. In well-marked cases the history, the combination of oedema, palpitations, muscular weakness, tenderness and wasting, the absence of ocular symptoms, and the more rapid evolu- tion of the disease, suffice to distinguish beriberi from locomotor ataxia. The absence of fever, of profuse sweating, the localisation of the pain in the muscles, the absence of knee-jerk, and the presence of well-marked evidences of peri- pheral neuritis distinguish beriberi from rheii- matic fever. The absence of albumen from the urine, besides the presence of the nervous symptoms, distinguish it from nephritis. Al- though diagnosis is by no means difficult, it is curious to note how frequently, either from carelessness or ignorance, beriberi is overlooked, and very often overlooked with disastrous consequences. It is difficult, however, even