229 General Weakness.—^ome degree of general weakness and unfitness for exertion is usually a feature of tlie condition, but this symptom, like many of the others, shows great variations in its severity. Ri'siiiratory Symptoms.—There is often pres- sure of the sac on the left recurrent laryngeal nerve as it courses round the aortic arch on its way to the larynx. At first the symptoms are those of irritation of the nerve with spasm, and later come paresis and paralysis. Patients with aneurysm of the arch often have a very characteristic ringing — so-called '■^brassy"— cough. Such a cough at once suggests aneurysm to the practised observer. The coiigh is dry, and there are at this stage no indications of catarrh or other laryngeal or bronchial cause for it. Later, catarrhal conditions of the bronchi are common. When the left cord is palsied the cord is seen, on laryngoscopic examination, to be motionless in the cadaveric position, while the larynx is normal in colour and structure. The writer is convinced that the palsy may remit or intermit befpre becom- ing permanently established. The voice may not be much altered owing to the moving cord being still able to meet its fellow. There is usually, however, some degree of hoarseness, and there may be a degree of inspiratory stridor. Before the laryngoscope came into use these symptoms were, natiu-ally enough, attributed to infiammation of the larynx, and the patient was subjected to local treatment tliat was altogether useless, and often produced suffering. Several cases are on record in which bilateral paralysis of the cords has resulted apparently from pressure on one vagus—not recurrent— nerve. The only explanation that seems at all feasible is that the nerve nucleus associated with the nerve has itself become affected in a secondary manner. This granted, we know how closely associated are the nuclei presiding over the vagi. For instance, the vocal cords always act together physiologically. The right vocal cord may be paralysed in a case of intrathoracic aneurysm, owing to involvement of the sub- clavian artery in aneurysmal disease, as the writer has seen. The possibility of there being two or more aneurysms must never be forgotten in the explanation of complex symptoms. Laryngeal paralysis may constitute almost the only indication of intrathoracic aneurysm. In one case seen by the writer this was so. The patient had a slight though obstinate bronchial catarrh, but otherwise seemed in good liealth. Fortunately his huynx was examined, tliough his voice seemed normal, and a palsied left cord found. A few weeks later the patient di-opped down and died in the street, no doubt from ruptured aneurysm. It nuist not be con- i luded at once, however, that a patient with a palsied left cord and an otherwise normal larynx is suffering from aneurysm. The recurrent nerve may be compressed by tumours or enlarged lymphatic glands, or may be caught in the changes associated with fibroid phthisis; instances of the last two accidents have come under the writer's notice. When inflammatory changes are present in the larynx, palsy of one or both cords goes for little in diagnosis ; the cause may be only the contiguous inflammation. The laryngoscope may afford invaluable aid in diagnosis, even by showing that the larynx is normal in its motion as well as in colour and structure. When there is manifest respiratory —generally inspiratory and expiratory—stridor and the larynx is normal, the pressure of the aneurysm must be exerted on the trachea and main bronchi, and is thus direct. The recogni- tion of the seat and nature of the obstruction in such a case is necessarily a matter of supreme importance when there is question of tracheo- tomy. It has mifortunately happened on more than one occasion that laryngotomy has been performed when the obstruction was not indirect and due to spasm of the glottis, but direct and due to pressure of the sac on the trachea lower down. There may be some deviation of the trachea, and the physical sign already described, tracheal tugging, will usually be pronounced. The stridor is both inspiratory- and expiratory, and the voice may be feeble, apparently from the deficient current of air passing the cords. The general resemblance of the symptoms to those of obstruction situated in the larynx is considerable, and a laryngoscopic examination may be the only means of ascertaining, by exclusion, the seat of obstruction. Bronchitis generally sujaervenes in cases of aneurysm of the arch compressing the trachea or bronchi, and suffocative paroxysms are apt to be induced by muco-purulent accommoda- tion blocking up the narrowed channel, while 2Mroxysms resembling asthiui frequently occur, possibly having their origin in spasmodic con- traction of the muscular filires of the bronchi. Some months ago the writer had under his care a case of aneurysm of the arch in which he could not find any laryngeal paralysis, although befoi'c admission to the infirmary the patient described suffocative attacks of such violence that during them he fell down partially uncon- scious. The patient came recently under his observation, and there was still no laryngeal paralysis, while indications of pressure upon the lower part of the trachea and left bronchus, previously present, had become pronounced. When there is pressure of an anemysmal sac on the trachea the expansion of the lower zone of the chest is interfered with, and inspiratory retraction of the same is common as in other ob.sti'uctions of the air passages. Secretion collects in the bronchi, and both inspiratory and expiratory movements become laboured efforts. The patient sits up in bed and leans forward as