467 BRAIN, PHYSIOLOGY OF jacent structures as the internal capsule or optic tract. The Cerebellum a\'d its Peduncles. — The cerebelhmi has five lobes—a median (or vermi- form), two lateral lobes, and two flocculi. The subdivisions of these will Ije foimd in any ana- tomical text-book, and it is unnecessary to detail them here. It may be said, however, that affec- tions of the middle lobe and of the flocculus are apt to be accompanied by the disturljances of equilibration and of co-ordination of the move- ments of the extremities and eyeballs which are regarded as specially characteristic of cerebellar disease, while lesions of the lateral lobes are not infrequently latent. The reasons for this are pr(.)bal)ly to be found in the connections of the cerebellum with the brain medulla and cord. The inferior peduncle of the cereljelhnn, or the restiform liody, connects it witli the medulla and cord. It is composed of (I) the direct cerebellar tract; (2) the arcuate fiTjres derived from the nuclei of the posterior columns of both sides of the cord, (3) from the inferior olive, (4) and from a nucleus at the side of the medulla termed the lateral nucleus. All these fibres, with the ex- ception of those from the inferior olive, conduct in a centripetal direction and terminate in the upper part of the middle lobe of the cerebellum, mainly, but not entirely, on the same side of the mesial plane. These fibres, moreover, almost certainly conduct muscular sense impulses (using that term in its most general sense). The fibres connecting the olive with the cerel)elhun seem to conduct centrifugally from the latter. The ascending antero-lateral tract of Gowers, although it does not belong to the restiform body, also enters the upper part of the middle lobe of the cerebellum. It passes upwards through the lateral part of the tegment of the pons, hooks round the fifth nerve at its emer- gence, and then curves roinid the superior cere- bellar peduncle just below the posterior corpus quadrigeminum, and bends downwards into the lingual lobe of the vermis. From the cortex of the vermis, sagittal fibres pass to two roTuided nuclei in the anterior part of the lobe, termed, from their relation to the fourth ventricle, the roof nuclei. Each roof nucleus, again, gives origin to an important tract, the cerebello-vestibular tract, which Ferrier and Turner have shown to degenerate, and therefore to conduct towards the nucleus of Deiters (vesti- bular nucleus). This tract follows the lateral wall of the fourth ventricle partly internal and partly external to the superior cereliellar peduncle. The cortex of the middle lobe is probably also connected with the nucleus dentatus and known as the superior cerebellar peduncle. The convoluted structure, the nucleus den- tatus, which lies at the side of the fourth ventricle on the confines of the middle and lateral lobes, also receives fibres from the cortex of the lateral lobes. These fibres probably form the majority of those which arise from the Pur- kinje's cells. The nucleus sends fibres to the inferior olive of the opposite side, and also through the superior cerebellar peduncle to the red nucleus and optic thalamus of the opposite side. The roof nucleus and the nucleus dentatus (with its accessory nucleus glol)osus and ernboli- formis) are thus concerned in receiving im- pressions from the cortex of the middle and lateral lobes, and in giving off centrifugal fibres to the nucleus of Deiters, the inferior olive, the red nucleus, and the optic thalamus. The dis- tribution of the fibres from the nucleus of Deiters is considered in relation to the auditory nerve, and is of special importance as regards the move- ments required for the maintenance of the equilibrium. The middle pedancle of tlie cerebellum is formed by the superficial, middle, and deep fibres of the pons, and arises mainly from the groups of cells which lie among these fibres (the nuclei pontis). These cells are also in connection with the fibres from the frontal, Fio. S—Diagram of tlie optic iiei've, showing the relation of the cortical half-vision centre in the occipital lobe, with the cor- respondint; lialves of both retina; and the opposite halves of the field of vision. temporal, and, to some extent, the parietal lobes of the cerebrum, which either end themselves or send their collaterals among the cells. The