14 ABDOMEN, INJURIES OF (a) Localised Traumatic Peritonitis.—This variety occurs after such accidents as severe contusions of the abdomen, though there may be no definite symptoms of visceral injury; slight ruptures of the liver, spleen, or kidney, or partial, or even' complete, wound or rupture of the gastro-intestinal tract, in which no extravasation of the visceral contents occurs. The inflammation is limited by adhesions, so that the general peritoneal cavity is unaffected. Suppuration may or may not occur ; usually it does. An abscess so formed may find its way to the surface, may burst into one of the hollow viscera, or by breaking through the limiting adhesions may give rise to the diffuse form of peritonitis. Symptoms. — The general symptoms—vomit- ing, pain, tympanites, constipation, and fever— resemble those which we shall presently consider in more detail in the diffuse form of the disease, but usually exist to a less marked degree. Pain is often localised over the affected area, where a sense of resistance is felt and tenderness is also present. Rigors may occur with the onset of suppuration. The formation of an abscess is associated with a well-defined indurated swelling, which gradually enlarges. Should the abscess approach the surface the overlying skin becomes red and oedematous, and finally gives way. If it burst into tlie intestine a ffecal fistula may form ; and should it become diff'use there will be a sudden increase in the pain, and the phenomena of diff'use peritonitis may occur. Treatment.—It is difficult to lay down rules for all cases, as our course of action must be largely guided by the probable causation. In the early stages of most cases a few leeches, followed by hot fomentations, may be applied to the abdomen over the affected area. The bowels should be opened by enemata, and pain may be relieved by opium. It is generally best to avoid purgatives by the mouth, lest there be any imrecognised visceral lesions. In cases of peritonitis developing during the ex- pectant treatment of severe abdominal con- tusions it is desirable to at once perform an exploratory coeliotomy in order that any existing visceral injury may he repaired in the manner already described. With definite evidences of suppuration the abscess cavity should be opened without delay, lest a diff'use peritonitis should occur. After evacuation of the pus efficient drainage should be employed. (h) Diffuse Traumatic Peritonitis. — This variety is much more serious tlian the localised form. It occurs after such injuries as penetrating wounds, or rupture of the stomach or intestines, whereby their contents become discharged into the general peritoneal cavity ; decomposition in extravasated bile, blood, or urine after rupture of viscera or blood-vessels; or surgical inter- ference. Symptoms.—Profound nerve shock is the first and most alarming symptom in all cases of severe peritonitis, and the expression becomes one of intense anxiety. The pulse-rate soon reaches 120 or more, and in the early stages is small and incompressible. The abdomen is rigid and board-like—partly from reflex spasm, and partly from voluntary eff'orts on the part of the patient to check all abdominal movements. Respiration is thoracic in type, because of the increased pain produced by diaphragmatic movements. Vomiting is the most constant symptom in peritonitis. Though a small quantity of fluid only is ejected at a time, it goes on incessantly every few minutes, until the patient is worn out by its persistence. At first, and frequently throughout the case, the vomited fluids are clear, or bile-stained ; towards the end they are occasionally faecal. Tympanites, or meteorism, is neai'ly always present, and usually to a marked degree. It is largely produced by circulatory changes in the intestine, giving rise to the production of gas in the affected bowel. The abdominal distension is sometimes very great, and the tension of the abdominal muscles is considerable. Both are liable to considerable variation, and frequently in an inverse ratio to each other. Pain is often very severe, causing the patient to cry out; but in some of the worst cases this symptom is not present. When due to perfora- tion, or rupture of viscera, the pain may at first be referred to the site of the organ affected; but later on it becomes general, though perhaps worst in the neighbourhood of the umbilicus. Constipation, from intestinal paralysis, is usually present. Diarrhoea may occui", and such cases may be regarded somewhat more favourably because meteorism is diminished or prevented. The temperature is a most variable symptom. It may rise suddenly to 102° or 104° F., the ascent being often preceded by a rigor; but some of the worst cases may have a normal, or subnormal, temperature. Great thirst is complained of, and the secre- tion of urine is diminished. Towards the end the symptoms are mainly those of acute septic infection. The patient lies on his back with his thighs flexed; the face is pinched and intensely anxious, the eyes are sunken, the skin is livid and damp, and the pulse is extremely rapid or imperceptible. The symptoms are subject to the greatest variation. They usually commence within the first thirty- six hours after injury, and death occurs in about a week or ten days. Very acute cases may die in the course of twenty-four or forty-eight hours from the time of injury. It is difficult to diagnose some of these cases from mere shock or internal haemorrhage, but in most of them the temperature is raised. Treatment. — The use of antiseptics is, of