ASEPTIC TREATMENT OF WOUNDS 292 and dust-laden atmosphere contain tubercle bacilli (Marpmann). The air of hospitals con- tains pathogenic bacteria in considerable quanti- ties. From the air of the operation theatre and wards of St. Bartholomew's Hospital we have grown, besides moulds and sarcinte, Staphylo- coccus aureus, Staphylococcus albus, Strepto- coccus pyogenes, and various bacilli. The atmospheric bacteria were thought at one time to be one of the chief sources of wound infection. Lord Lister endeavoured, by using a carbolic spray, to produce a germ-free atmosphere. But soon it was discovered that the carbolic acid in the spray was insufficient to kill the atmospheric bacteria. Further, there was reason to suppose that the spray actually carried additional bacteria into wounds. After this, to protect from air infection, screens of antiseptic gauze wet with antiseptic lotion were used to cover wounds. The danger of air infection is at the present time rather under- rated. It may, however, be much diminished by precautions. Tyndall's experiments con- clusively proved that when the atmosphere was still, dust and bacteria gravitated and left a pure air. Therefore it is inadvisable to operate in theatres or rooms which have just been dis- turbed. Next, the theatres, wards, and corri- dors of hospitals should be planned with smooth surfaces and without ledges or grooves where dust can accumulate. As yet British surgeons have not had screens of glass erected betwixt the audience and the floor of the operation theatre, nor do they consider it necessary to wear a mask (Hiibner). Operations should be done as swiftly as efficiency will allow. Screens of antiseptic gauze should be used to protect one part of the wound whilst another is being dissected—as, for instance, in amputation of the breast—to protect the pectoral region with a layer of antiseptic gauze during the dissection of the axilla, or the upper part of a laparotomy wound during manipulations within the pelvis. Inasmuch as bacteria undoubtedly fall from the air into wounds, most surgeons follow Lord Lister's practice and at intervals rinse them out with antiseptic lotion. This device is objected to by some, because the tissiies are supposed to be injured by the chemical, their reparative power impaired and rendered less resistant to infection; therefore they endeavour to evict them with copious ablutions of sterilised water or sterilised salt solution. In my own surgical practice solutions of biniodide of mercury (mercuric iodide) are used. These are made by dissolving red iodide of mercury in water with the help of about an equal weight of iodide of potassium. The strength of the lotion is determined by the conditions. For most cases the standard strength of 1 part in 2000 parts of water is used, for abdominal operations 1 part in 4000. This salt of mercury is a highly efficient disin- fectant. Its strength is not less than twice that of sublimate. It is unirritating and does not combine with albumen. Cut surfaces to which it has been applied remain quite fresh and red and do not assume the pickled appear- ance which follows the application of carbolic acid or sublimate. As it all runs out again it seldom causes mercurial poisoning. Instead of lotions, swabs of sterilised wool and gauze are sometimes used to cleanse wounds or cavities. This saves the cells from being swollen or burst by the imbibition of the fluid, and from being poisoned by the chemical. {b) Water infection.—The water from taps and ordinary sources contains a great variety of bacteria. Amongst the pathogenic ai-e Staphylo- coccus pyogenes aureus, Streptococcus pyogenes, the bacillus of diphtheria, the colon bacillus, and many others ; the non-pathogenic are too numer- ous to mention. Amongst the latter are many saprophytes. The latter are harmless under ordinary circumstances, but can flourish and cause the most harmful effects when placed under favourable conditions, as, for instance, when they are introduced into a peritoneal blood- clot or into a pleuritic effusion. Aseptic sur- gery guards against such occurrences, because its aim is the exclusion of all bacteria. A proper supply of sterilised water is therefore necessary. The ordinary hot-water supply is not depend- able. On more than one occasion we have grown bacteria from water supplied to operation theatres from distant boilers. I have not tested the hot-water supply of private houses. It is, however, very easy to sterilise water by keep- ing it at boiling point for thirty minutes in a suitably covered vessel. Five minutes in boiling water kills most bac- teria, but the longer period is needed to ensure the death of those which possess spores. Before an operation a supply of water should be steri- lised and allowed to cool. During the cooling the vessel should be covered and protected against the entrance of dust—by a closely-fitting lid, or a thick cap of antiseptic gauze over the mouth and spout. In addition to heat, filtration and chemicals are available for the sterilisation of water. Fil- tration has hitherto been little used. Sterilising can be ensured by using the Pasteur-Chamber- land filter. The process is slow, and requires much vigilance to ensure reliable results. The addition of chemicals to water which has been boiled is an additional guarantee of its sterility. Such chemicals as sublimate, bin- iodide of mercury, cyanide of mercury, several other metallic salts, carbolic acid, sulphurous acid, chlorine, permanganate of potash, and so forth, not only afford solutions which are sterile, but also lotions with disinfectant and antiseptic properties. The mercuric salts are sufficiently powei'ful to sterilise ordinary tap water in a few minutes. The