210 ANTHRAX has been stated that recovery is even possible after anthrax bacilli have been seen in the blood; these statements require further con- firmation. When general anthrax is not pre- ceded by obvious external lesions (malignant pustule), or does not occur in a patient known to have been exposed to infection either through his occupation or by accident, the diagnosis of the disease is by no means easy. The appear- ance of bacilli in the blood is too much delayed to be of practical use, and even a few hours before death, bacilli are not always discoverable in the blood by simple microscopical examina- tion. Diagnostic cultivation and inoculation experiments would therefore in many cases yield results only after the death of the patient. They are none the less of use in establishing the exact nature of the disease, and assisting in the application of preventive measures by making clear the nature of all doubtful cases. Morbid Anatomy.—The post-mortem lividity is usually excessive : parts such as the lips, ears, nails, etc., which were already cyanosed during life, assume a dark jjurple colour. Decomposi- tion appears early, and post-mortem emphysema may be produced by the action of putrefactive organisms. Dark brown blood - stained fluid frequently escapes from the various orifices of the alimentary and respiratory passages. Sub- cutaneous, submucous, subserous oedema, and blood extravasations are frequently observed : they are usually most marked in the neighbour- hood of the original seat of infection. Serous or hsemorrhagic exudations are fre- quently present in the pleura, pericardium, and peritoneum. The endocardium and intima of blood-vessels are blood-stained. The skeletal and cardiac muscles are usually dark, soft, and friable; the heart and large veins are distended with blood. The blood is very dark, almost black, viscid; it does not regain the colour of arterial blood on being exposed to the air. Coagulation is absent or imperfect, a few soft clots may be present in the heart and larger veins. If the blood be examined microscopically soon after death, it is usually found to contain anthrax bacilli, which are situated between the blood corpuscles. The red blood corpuscles form irregular masses by agglutination; they are more or less deformed; there is marked leucocytosis. If the examination of the blood is delayed for many hours, the rapid onset of putrefaction alters the character of the blood, and the bacillus anthracis is often found to have disappeared more or less completely. It may, however, still be discovered in the peripheral parts of the body, where putrefactive changes have been delayed, owing to the rapid cooling of these parts and their distance from the alimentary canal. By cooling rapidly the whole body of small animals the writer has been able to prevent entirely the effects of putrefactive change, and has ascertained that at the end of two and even three weeks typical, short, non- sporing, living anthrax bacilli might still be jj present in blood obtained from the heart and ;' other organs.^ |i Th e stomach and small intestine are frequently, ;i though by no means always, affected, even when infection has not taken place through | the intestine. The large intestines may also be |. the seat of lesions. The gastro-intestinal lesions || appear usually as dark swollen patches, measur- ,] ing from |- of an inch to more than 1 inch in diameter; the mucous membrane is chiefly ,j affected. The patches are often numerous, 2 usually deeply congested or hsemorrhagic. Some !: of these lesions may undergo gangi'ene and j ulceration. The bacillus anthracis is found in \ great abundance in these regions. The lymphatic glands are generally more or less enlarged, soft and deeply congested. The spleen is usually j larger than noi'mal, but not to the same extent as in some of the lower animals {e.g. sheep and cattle). When distinctly affected it is soft and dark in colour. The spleen may, however, be so slightly involved as to appear nearly normal. Besides venous congestion, the liver and kidney j present no striking characteristic naked - eye j lesions. Evidences of parenchymatous degenera- tive changes are revealed by microscopic examina- tion. Ha3morrhages may be found in the lungs, | under the cerebral and spinal meninges, and | even in the substance of the nerve centres. j Cutaneous Anthrax. .See "MalignantPustule." \ Pulmonary Anthrax. (Wool-sorter's disease, \ bronchial mycosis, etc.) Clinical Features.—As the name indicates, wool - sorters are specially liable to infection through the inhalation of infectious dust; this | danger is not, however, confined to them; thus some of the ovitbreaks of disease which have been observed in rag-pickers or sorters, wool and | horn workers, tanners, etc., are also attributable to anthrax. The hair of such animals as the camel, alpaca j (lama paco), goat (mohair), are specially danger- i ous. AH the wools, hairs, hides, horns, etc., j coming from warm countries, and specially ( from the confines of Asia Minor and Persia (Van ' district), where anthrax is prevalent, are a source of danger; the mixture of fleeces and hides from j diseased animals with those of healthy animals has unfortunately not been sufficiently guarded against. j Although the danger of handling such |, materials has been known for some considerable \ 1 Portions of internal organs, or blood from the heart, obtained soon after death, may be kept for several days, | and be still suitable for bacteriological examination if j packed in ice. This observation also proves that con- ^ tamination of the soil by blood containing anthrax bacilli may be followed by the formation of spores even when such j contamination occurs at a time when the soil is frozen ; for the bacilli retain their vitality long enough to permit of !• further development when the temperature is high enough {! to favour the formation of spores. —S. D. j