BLACKWATER FEVER 381 Smith and Kilborne in the hfemoglobinuric fever of cattle (Texas fever). The observations of the two American authors were confirmed by Krogius and 0. von Hellens in Finland, Sanfelice and Loi in Sardinia, Celli and Dionisi in tlie Roman Campagna, and Koch in East Africa. The organisms found in blackwater fever and Texas fever are both small unpigmented proto- zoa, both show active amoeboid movements, both assume usually the shape of an almond or pear, both are frequently found in pairs in the same corpuscle, both affect the red corpuscle in the same way and give rise to identical symptoms, both are found in the same season and in the same swampy districts. Texas fever, or better, redimter fever; is found not only in oxen, but in horses, sheep, and possibly in other animals. It is not improbable, there- fore, that it should also attack man, as is the case in anthi'ax, tuberculosis, and other diseases which have a wide zoological distribution. The hfemoglobinuric fever of cattle is con- veyed by a tick {Boophilus hovis) which fre- quently infests other mammals (sheep, goats, horses, mules) and man. The writer has been frequently attacked by ticks while botanising in Southern Italy. In the United States, in Sardinia, in East Africa, aiad in other regions we know that hosmoglobinuric fever is found both in man and cattle, and that in both it may relapse out of season and when far removed from the locality of infection. But the geographical distribution of blackwater fever and redwater fever, which is the same in tropical and sub-tropical climes, seems to part company in the higher latitudes. I believe this difference to be only apparent and due to the fact that in Northern Europe and in Northern America the hiiemoglobinuric fever of man is called paroxysmal luemofjlohinuria and epidemic or infantile hcemoglohinuria wlien it breaks out amongst the infants of a lying-in hospital as in the cases described by Winckleman. 1 know full well that so-called paroxysmal hiiemoglobinuria in northern latitudes is far from being so severe and fatal as the hfemo- globinuric fever of Africa, but then we must remember that in Africa the disease usually attacks those who have been already seriously affected by tropical malaria. The death-rate of blackwater fever varies greatly in different regions. In the Greek Archipelago it is only 22 per cent, in British Central Africa it is 60 per cent. It seems to me, therefore, that paroxysmal hsemoglobinuria stands to black- water fever in the same relation as our dysentery (enterocolitis of some authors) to tropical dysenter3^ I do not wish to infer that all cases of luemo- globinuria are parasitic, because mineral poisons (chlorate of potash, etc.), vegetable poisons (some mushrooms), and animal poisons (snake- venom) may induce it, but I certainly believe that most cases of so-called paroxysmal htemo- globinuria or hfemoglobinuria a frigore are parasitic. I daresay that in a disease with so wide a geographical and zoological distribution we may hud several varieties of parasites, but however tins may be I consider that there is sufficient evidence to show that blackwater fever is a distinct morbid entity, that it is caused by a specific parasite, that this parasite is an hemato- zoon belonging to the class of protozoa, that if not identical with pirosorna higerninum it cei'tainly is closely allied to it. I believe that the pai'asites of blackwater fever, like those of the festivo-autumnal group, are to be found chiefly in the capillaries of the internal organs and only sparingly in the peri- pheral circulation during the initial stage of the paroxysm when the patient experiences feelings of chilliness. Woldert says he found the parasites in about 2 per cent of red corpuscles. This is the case in Texas fever. Pirosorna Ijigeminum may be found in 80 per cent of corpuscles within the capillaries of the liver and spleen, but in only 1, 2, or at most 10 per cent of corpuscles in the peripheral circulation. The protozoa of "malarial diseases," and those of hfemoglobinuric fever in man and cattle, difter gTcatly in their action on the red-blood corpuscles, but there seems to be a much more importfint difference between them in their mode of division. The parasites of tertian, quartan, and festivo-txutumnal fevers propagate by means of a multiple rosette-like segmentation, those of hfemoglobinuric fever seem to multiply only by simple binary fission. No other form of division has as yet been witnessed in Texas fever, and both in Texas fever and blackwfiter fever the parasites are often found in pairs and sometimes still connected. Diagnosis From Mularid.—Blackwater fever is usually ushered in by a severe and pi-olonged rigor, find the chill may recur twice or three times in the same day. In tertian and quartfin fevers we may also find a severe rigor; but it is far less mfirked in festivo-t\utumnal fever, which is the infection supposed to give rise to hfemoglobinurifi. The vomiting in mahiria seldom fxssumes thfit persistent find grave chfxracter which is so chfirtxcteristic of blackwfiter fever. In malarifil fevers there is often a slight sfillow colour of the skin, but never thfit sudden, intense saffron or greenish-yellow discoloration which is constfxntly found in ;ill cases of black- water fever, not excluding the mildest relapses. The urine of blackwater fever is al)solutely pfithognomonic, becoming usufdly as bkick as