327 ATROPINE Cornea {Inflammation, Treatment); Heart, Neuroses of {Bradycardia); Iris and Ciliary Bodies {Iritis) ; Morphinomania {Treatment) ; Pharmacology; Physiology; Toxicology {Bella- donna). Attention. See Memory in Health and Disease ; Puj'il {Attention-Reflex). AttenUcltion.—Diminution in the viru- lence or reduction of the potency of a pathogenic organism or virus l)y inoculation, etc. See \ MMUNITY. Attic Disease. See Ear, Middle, C11 R O N1C 8 U P1 > U K A TIO N. AttiCOtOmy.—The opening of the attic of the labyrinth as a surgical procedure. Attitude. See Hysteria {Second Period, Emotional Attitudes); Labour, Physiology {Disposition of Foetus); Muscles, Diseases of {Psevdohypertrophic Paralysis); Paralysis {Cere- bral Diplegia, Paralysis Agitans); Physiognomy'. Attonitus.—Stunned or stupefied, e.g. morbus attonitus or apoplexy. The later stages of morbid somnolence or katatonia are called attonita. See Si^eep, Normal and Morbid. AuclienomeiUS. —The teratological state in which a supernumerary limb is attached to the neck. AuchenOSChisiS.—Spina bifida affect- ing the cervical vertebra;. Audiometer.—An apparatus (including a, microphone) for the measurement of the sensitiveness of the ears to sounds. Audiphones. See Hearing, Artificial Aids -h). Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth. Physiology— Roots of Nerve . . 3-27 Functions— Auditory . 328 Equilihrial 328 (General Diagnosis— Localisation . 329 Nature of Lesion . 331 Mode of Onset . . 331 Special Diagnosis— Vascular Amfmia . 331 Congestion . 331 Ilannorrhage ( Jle'niere's) . 331 Ixflajimatiox— Acute .... . 332 Chronic .... . 333 Sy'philis, etc. .... . 333 See also Aphasia {Anatomical Introduction and Clinical Features); Cerebellum, Affections op (Tumoui-) ; Physiology {The Senses); Spine, Surgical Affections {Caisson Disease) ; Tabes DoRSALis {Affection of Cranial Nerves); Vertigo. Physiology.—The eighth or auditory nerve— subserving two functions, audition and equili- bration—is in two halves, the cochlear and the vestibular, each starting in a diff'erent part of the labyrinth and ending in a different part of the central nervous system, the former in the auditory cortical centre in the superior temporo- sphenoidal convolution, the latter in the middle lobe of the cerebellum. The Acoustic or Cochlear Fibres, com- mencing in the auditory hair-cells of Corti's organ in the duct of the cochlea, pass through the spiral ganglion and join in the deepest part of the internal auditory meatus to form the cochlear division of the eighth nerve. It passes along the meatus in company with the vestibular nerve, the facial, and the pars intermedia of Wrisberg, to enter the hind brain at the junction of the pons and medulla, just dorsal to the restiform body. It here gives some fibres to the cells of the accessory nucleus, and others to the ventral or anterior auditory one. From these the fibres cross in great part to the opposite side, some doing so through the strife acoustiCcB on the floor of the fourtli ventricle, others more ventrally in the trapezoid body of the pons. These two groups unite in the lateral fillet, pass through the internal corpus geniculatum and posterior part of the internal capsule, and turn outwards and downwards into the corona radiata of the superior temporo- sphenoidal convolution to that part of the cortex localised as the auditory centre. Strands go from the auditory nuclei to both superior olives and posterior corpora quadrigemina. There is no doubt that each ear is connected with the auditory cortical centres of both sides, as is evidenced by the fact that although the centre for speech is situated in the left auditory centre, speech is heard by the left ear alone as well as the right, and cochlear fibres apparently pass directly from the auditory nucleus to the posterior corpus quadrigeminum of the same side (Ferrier, Turner, Obersteiner). The Vestibular Nerve.—The fibres starting from the hair-cells of the cristre and macula; acousticiie of the semicircular canals, utricle and saccule, after passing through local ganglia unite in the internal auditory meatus to form the vestibular nerve. This runs with the cochlear nerve as far as the restiform body, on the ventral aspect of which it enters the hind brain to reach the external (and internal) nucleus of Deiters. Deiters' nucleus receiA'cs fibres from the roof-nucleus of the cerebellum, which in turn is connected with the cortex of the middle lobe. This is the main centre for the co-ordination of the movement for the maintenance of equilibrium, with which con- sequently the semicircular canals are in very