405 BLEEDING Epistaxis ; H/BMatbmbsis ; Htematuria ; Haemo- philia ; H/EMOPTYsis; Hemorrhage ; Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium ; Labour, H/em- orrhage ; Pneumonia ; Pregnancy, H/em- orrhage ; Sunstroke ; Yellow Fever ; etc. Bienno- or Blenne-.—Ble7mo- as a prefix signifies mueous, being derived from (iXivva, iiiucns. Thus hlennemesis means vomit- ing of mucus ; ble7menteritis, mucous enteritis ; hlennocyxtititt, catarrh of the bladder; hlenno- metritis, uterine catarrh ; blennophthahnia, mu- cous conjimctivitis ; blennostash, suppression of mucous secretion; blemiorrkagia, excessive mu- cous secretion or gonorrhoea ; blennoj-rhoea, chronic urethritis or gleet, or excessive mucous discharge. Blennorrhag^ia. See Gonorrhceal Infection ; Joints, Diseases of ; Urethra, Diseases of : etc. Blennorrhoea.. See Lachrimal Appara- tus, Diseases of ; Larynx, Acute and Chronic Inflammations (Blennorrhoea) ; Urethra, Dis- eases of. Biepha.r-.—As a prefix blephar- signifies relating to the eyelid, from /3Xe<jiapov, the eye- lid. In this way many compounds are formed of which the following, with their meanings, may be named: blepharadenitis, inflammation of the sebaceoiLS glands of the hair follicles of the eyelids; blepharempihysema, emphysema of the eyelid ; bJepharismus, nictitation or involun- tary winking ; blepliaritis, inflammation of the eyelid; bleptharoblennorrhtiea, gonorrhceal ophthal- mia ; blepharocoloboma, coloboma of the eyelid ; blepharoncus, a tumour of the eyelid ; blepiharo- phimosii^, or blepharostenosis, congenital narrow- ing of the interpalpebral fissure; blephar- ophthalniia, conjunctivitis; blepharoplasty, restor- ative operations on the eyelid ; blepharoptosis, drooping of the upper eyelid ; blepharorrhaphi/, a plastic operation for the cure of ectropion ; blepharospjasm, contraction of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle ; and blepharosymphi/sis, adhesion of the eyelids. Blepharitis. See 1'on.junctiva, Dis- eases OF ; Eyelids, Affections of ; Refraction (Hypermftrnpia). BiepharophimosiS. See Eyelids, Affections of. Blepharospasm. See Amblyopia {Functional, Hysterical) ; Eye, Clinical Exam- ination of the {Photophobia and Blepharo- spasm) ; Facial Spasm ; Hypnotism ; Hysteria (Motor Disorde7's); Nose, Nasal Neuroses ; Sl'ASM. Blindness. See also Colour Vision {Colour Blindness); Conjunctiva ; Eye ; Eye- ball ; Iris ; Malingering ; Vision ; etc.—The Ijlind as a class are cheerful, happy, and con- tented, eager for information and interested in all that goes on about them. Nevertheless, the loss of sight cannot but be regarded as one of the greatest afflictions. The man who has lost his sight has suflered irreparable loss; he who was born blind is shut out from even the imagination of what sight may be. The educa- tion of the other senses of the blind, especially of touch and hearing, can be carried to a vi'onderful degree of perfection, but at the best these are but narrow gateways of knowledge. The Prevention of Blindness.—During the last fifty years the proportion of blind in the community has been slowly but steadily declin- ing. This may be atti'ibuted to various causes, including all those, hygienic and other, which have improved the home-life of the masses; precautions at work ; better education, leading those suftering from any disease or injury of the eye to seek skilled assistance without delay; and the great decrease of such diseases as smallpox which formerly accounted for many cases of blindness, and still does so in some countries, as has recently been shown by Solo- win, who investigated the causes of blindness in 552 cases in eighteen institutions for the blind in Russia, and found that in 28 per cent of the cases the blindness had resulted from smallpox. At the present day, ophthalmia neonatorum remains the most frequent cause of blindness and the most distressing, seeing that these cases must be regarded as almost entirely pre- ventible; and the great importance of pre- ventive treatment cannot be too strongly urged on all obstetric physicians. Among pupils in schools for the blind, who are usually under twenty years of age, we find that aljout 30 per cent have lost their sight from this cause (Armitage). Trachoma, glaucoma, sympathetic inflamma- tion, are all very important causes of blindness, which might in many cases be prevented by timely treatment. Home Training of the Blind.—No matter at what age blindness comes on, the sooner proper education is begun the better. This applies even to cliildren born blind and to those losing their sight in infancy. There is a great, and perhaps not unnatural, tendency for the par- ents of such children to do everything for them, and to shield them fi'om the risk of accident in every possible way, even to the extent of keep- ing them in bed for years. The result of such mistaken kindness is that when the child reaches school age he is defective in mind and body ; he can do nothing for himself; he can hardly'walk ; he may have no idea of grasping, his hands and fingers hanging limp and helpless. It cannot be too strongly urged that a blind infant should, as far as possible, be treated exactly like his seeing brothers and sisters. He should be given toys to play with. He