ANyESTHETICS—ETHER 154 calmly at each respiration the reservoir is turned, perhaps a fourth of the way towards 1, every third or fourth respiration. It is this period which tests the tact and judgment and patience of the administrator, as the patient is in full possession of his faculties, of his per- ception of the pungency of the ether, and of his consciousness that he is about to lose con- sciousness iinder the influence of the anaesthetic. Partly by control of word of mouth of the administrator, partly by the incipient effect of the ether, the patient drifts on until at the end of the " first period," and, with the index at ^ or at 1, he has become indifferent to the inipleasantness of the ansesthetic process. It is at this stage chiefly that the ether vapour may cause coughing. If this happens it is well to turn back a short stage, and then after three or four lireathings to go forwards again, when it will generally be fomid that the additional ether inhaled at the lower point has induced a tolerance which enables the patient to go to the higher point without further coughing. During this period of administration it is important as a general rule not to remove the inhaler nor to allow the patient to breathe fresh air, but rather to encourage him to endure the transient discomfort, as it will soon pass into oblivion. Presently the patient gradually loses consciousness, breathes more quickly and deeply, and then falls into anaesthetic stertor and complete unconsciousness. This condition may sometimes be reached in a minute and a half — frequently in three minutes—before allowing the patient to breathe fresh air, and is often accompanied by moderate duskiness or lividity. " No attention should be paid, as a general rule, to the duskiness until stertor has commenced" (Hewitt). The in- haler may now be removed for one or two inhalations, which restore the colour to the lips, and then reapplied — the index being turned back to 2 or even to 1, which as a rule suffices for maintaining the anaesthetic sleep, with con- siderable intervals of breathing without the inhaler. It is a mistake, made not infrequently by beginners, to retain the index at F (full) or even at 3, in order to continue the ansesthetisa- tion after the patient has fully succumbed to the antesthetic. The patient is thereby satu- rated with more ether than is needed for the purpose of the operation, and is brought nearer to the margin of safety. After replenishing the ether go back to 1, as, in consequence of the replenishment, there is at first a very rapid evaporation of ether, and then rather rapidly move on to 2 or 3. Mr. Walter Thompson, senior anaesthetist to the Leeds Infirmary, tells me that he hardly ever goes beyond 2. This entails a rather long period before anaesthesia, but it is a great safe- guard against the collection of mucus in the throat. Mr. Thompson also prefers to give ether with the patient on the side, and the head slightly thrown back, so that the saliva may run out at the side of the cheek, and not collect at the back of the throat. After the patient has fully succumbed to the ether, about gj every quarter of an hour should suffice for the continuance of the anaesthesia. How TO DEAL wrrH Struggling and Excite- ment.—Persons who object to ether as an anaesthetic make much of struggling as an objection. As a matter of fact, if ether is properly administered, struggling and excite- ment ought to be a very rare occurrence, and when they do occur they will test the tact and experience of the administrator. Struggling under Ether is generally met with in strong men, and especially men accus- tomed to take alcohol freely. There are, in my judgment, two distinct periods when excitement occurs, which call for distinctly different manage- ment—an eai-lier one, and a later one. The earlier period comes on when a patient is just losing self - control, is becoming blue, is still sufficiently conscious to feel an intensely dis- tressing sense of sviftbcation, and struggles, two- thirds consciously, and one-third unconsciously, for fresh air and free breathing. This excite- ment is in a great measure the result of carbon- isation, often comliincd with too strong ether vapour. The index of the inhaler will have probably reached 1|. I am quite clear as to the best way to deal with this condition. " Reculer pour le mieux sauter." Remove the inhaler, let the patient breathe freely and get rid of the carbonisation, and become calm and reassured, and then begin again at 0. Then push on, a small stage at each breath, and rapidly reach again, when it will in most instances be found that the excitement does not recur, because he now has the cumulative effect of the first and second dose of the ether. But in some few instances on reaching this point again, or further on at 2, the excitement recurs. The patient now will be more saturated with ether, will have quite lost self-control, and will not be consciously struggling for breath. The course to take now is to slightly restrain the patient's hands so that they do not interfei'e with the anaesthetist, and quickly, breath by breath, to move the index \ip to F, when the ether asserts its control and the patient rapidly becomes quiescent, being overpowered by the ether rather than by the asphyxia. Duskiness, Lividity, and Carbonisation.— The method of administration of ether by Clover's or Ormsby's inhaler means this, that the patient breathes the same air over and over again, perhaps for several minutes, and in time is anaesthetised mainly by the ether, and partly perhaps by the carbonisation of the blood, as indicated by duskiness or even blue- ness of the lips. The carbonisation accelerates the effect of the ether, and is easily dissipated