427 BONE, DISEASES OF PvoGEMC Diseases of Bone I. Diseases caused by the Staphylococcus aureus ..... 427 1. Acute b'uppvrative Osteomi/elitis and Periostitis ..... 428 2. Serous or Allmmiyiovs Osteomyelitis and Periostitis . . . .430 3. Growth-fever or Osteomyelitis, wliirh results in exaggerated grotvth in length of the Bones . . .437 4. Chronic, Persistent, and Relapsing Osteomyelitis .... 438 ResTiltiiig in— I/yperostosis and Sclerosis Chronic Al/scess of Pone Ordinary Suppuration with or u'ith- out Necrosis 5. Osteomyelitis which is CI ironic frcym the Outset . . . ." . 439 Resulting in— Hyperostosis and Sclerosis Chronic Abscess of Bone Ordinary Suppuration with or vitli- cnit Necrosis Necrosis without Siqqniration ("Quiet Necrosis") II. Diseases caused by othek Pyogenic Organisms ..... 440 Staphylococcus allms and, citreiis . . 440 Streptococcus pycjgenes . . . .440 Pneumococciis ..... 440 Ty2ihoid Bacillus . . . .440 Coml/inations of the Preceding Infec- tions . . . . . .441 Infections following the Uruptive Fevers 441 III. Pyogenic Diseases of Bone from Direct Infection through a Wound or other Breach of Surface ..... 441 //( Amputatiojis ..... 442 In Compound Fractures . . . 442 In Diseases of Adjacent Soft Parts . 442 I. DisE.\SES of Bone due to the Stafhylo- COCCUS AUREUS Staphylococcal Osteomyelitis and. Periostitis.— The bone marrow, during the jjeriod of growtii of the skeleton, constitutes a specially favour- al)le seat for the deposition and development of staphylococci. They are mainly transferred from one point of the body to another Ijy leucocytes. Tlie site of entrance and method of infection of the staph^dococci are not always apparent. This is especially the case in the more severe forms of the disease, which appear to originate spontaneously with rapid onset of general illness. In these there is probably a high degree of initial virulence on the part of the cocci, and their mere entrance into the body and into the bones may suffice to produce disease without any accessory or localising factors. The site of entrance is frequently the skin : the outbreak of the disease is often preceded by eczema, acne pustules, blisters, small in- fected wounds, vaccination sores, impetigo, and l)y septic conditions at the uml)ilicus in the newly-born. Kocher believes the cocci first acquire a higher degree of virulence in the skin of the patient, which acts as a nursing- ground for their further development. The internal mucous surfaces may be the site of entrance; the proof of this is obtained with greater difficulty ; it may be assumed, however, from osteomyelitis lieing preceded by aphthous stomatitis, teething, foul furred tongue, excoria- tions and iissures in tongue, mouth, nose, and liy adenoids, by small tonsillar fabscesses, and by intestinal disturbances, such as diarrhoea. It must be assumed that staphylococci may enter the general circulation and be deposited in the living state in the marrow without there V)eing any e.xternal evidences of such infection, or only such minor disturbances of health as may be shown In- slight indisposition, or fever- ishness, and shooting rheumatic pains in the limbs. The localisation and successful development of the infection in the bones may lie assisted or determined by injury (blow, squeeze, or twist), by exertion (a long walk), or by exposure to cold (wading), all of which act by causing extravasation of blood or disturbance of the circulation and nutrition. Yolkmann has de- scribed cases in which years have elapsed after reco\'ery fr(jm osteomyelitis, and yet a blow on the affected lioiie has been followed by sudden violent inflammation. The injury may, on the other hand, precede the infection by weeks or months; the outbreak then occurs at tlie in- jured area, when some skin infection (e.g. boils) affords a means of entrance for the staphylo- cocci. The reverse is observed when a pus- tular affection of the skin precedes the trauma : the former may be healed or cured when some accidental injury allows of the development of the cocci which, up till then, had been lying dormant in the marrow. The trauma and the infection may be simultaneous, as when a patient with cutaneous boils falls on his knees and develops acute osteomyelitis (Kocher). One must assume that staphylococci may persist in a condition of potential vitality for months or years in the bone marrow, otherwise the outlireak of acute osteomyelitis after an injury would lie impossible of explanation. They are still more cajiable of lying latent in diseased tissues, witness the lireaking out afresh, it may be on one or upon several occasions, of old and apparently cured osteomyelitis after the lapse of many years. The less severe or chi-onic forms of osteomyelitis are liy no means so exceptional as was previously believed. Their occurrence is to lie explained either by a greater resisting power on the part of the tissue, whereby