BRAIN, AFFECTIONS 473 OF BLOOD-VESSELS A Ht't (if symptoms has been described as the result of severe aniemia, the consequence, it may be, of diarrhea or some other wasting condition occurring in children ; the series of symptoms consisting in sunnnilence, with pallor, contracted puj)ils, occasionally rigidity of the neck, and de- pressed fontanellcs. When antemia of the lirain has lasted for a long time, it is certain, not only that the general nutrition of the brain suffers, but that the inter- ference with the nutrititin of cells and other structures residts in actual anatomical changes — slight, it may be, but sufficiently severe to be recognisable. Thus the walls of minute vessels may be found degenerated, thickened, and homo- geneiMis in appearance ; the brain substance may l,)e ccdematous, and the nerve cells ill-defined and granidar. Such conditions are associated with deficient mentid power, and, if they occiu' in a child, may result in defective general develo2> ment of the brain, leading to mental iinpair- ment, perhaps even jiermanent imbecility. Fafho/o</i/ and I'ntltological Anatomy.—The general pallor (if the brain, the changes in the cells, and (itlu'r structures already alhided to, which are met with in sevei-e and prolonged cases, sufficiently indicate the changes to lie looked for in any condition suspected to be one of cerebral anfemia. But it must be remem- liered that pallor of the brain aftei' death does not necessarily show that anaemia existed during life. Patliology.—The exact conditions (in which the symptoms described as those of cerebral an.'cmia depend are not known. Defective cjuan- tity and quality of the blood, with residting interference with the cerebral structtu'es, proli- ably lie at the root of all the symptoms. It can easily be iniderstood that if structures of such vital importance as those of the brain, the pons, and the medulla are either suddenly or slowly deprived of the material on which they depend for their nutrition, symptoms will arise depend- ing upon interference with function. In a similar way, in conditions of general anfemia in which, as we have already said, not only are the structures imperfectly supplied with Vilood, but that lilood which is supplied to them probably contains some toxic substances, it can easily be understood that symptoms depending not only on the defective nutrition of cells and fi1)res will arise, but also other symptoms more directly dependent upon the toxic effects of the foreign substances present in the blood. In this way, probalily, are to be accounted for, not only the severe phenomena present in auicmia, such as convulsions, delirimn, etc., Imt also those slighter phenomena, such as the tingling at the extremi- ties, the headache, the nausea, vertigo, and interference with the special senses, which so frequently occur in such cases. D-iagnosu.—The diagnosis sometimes offers a. certain amount of difficulty, but the difficulty consists not s(i much m recognising the autcmic condition of the brain giving rise to the symp- toms, but in detecting the cause of the anfcmia. If there has, for examjjle, been any halntual loss of lilood, such as results from menorrhagia or from bleeding piles, or even from fre(|uently repeated epistaxis, the recognition of the symp- toms resulting from such loss of blood in its effects upon the brain need present n(i great difficulty. V>nt certain antemic c(jnditions result not so nuicli from such symptoms as from the effects of some deep-seated, (ibscure malignant condition present either in the bones or in some of the viscera; and the I'ccognitidn that such conditions ma}' be present is of the utnKJst im- p(.irtance. Nor must it he fdrgotten that other conditions strongly suggestive oi' cereljral auic- mia may occur in people who appear anfemic, conditions which may not necessarily be the result of tliis an;emia. Thus it has hapjiened tliat conditions of j'^tit ma/ and A'ertigo, the result of quite other causes, have been supposed to be due to aufemia of the brain, altliough there was definite evidence that those symptoms were present long before the patient presented, at all events olivious, ana'mia. l>ut nf course it is (]uite possible that cerebral an;emia may aggra- vate a conditiiin (if this kind \vhi(.-h is already present. Treatment.—^The treatment necessarily re- s(jlves itself into a treatment of the cause of the anaemia. If dependent on a general systemic condition, such as pernicious anfemia, Hodgkin's disease, or similar disorders, the treatment ap- propriate to each condition nnist be carried nut. One point of great inqjortance in the general management is the recognition of the fact that rest in bed is often of the utmost importance. The symptoms resulting from cereliral ansemia are nearly always aggravated when the patient assumes the vertical jjosition, and rest in lied in the reciniibent posture is important, not only in order to allow the blood more easily to get to the brain, but also because it prevents, mtire effectually than any other line of treatment, demands iqaon an already weakened organism, which must result in aggnivating the condition. In I'egard to drugs, cardiac tonics, e.g. digi- talis, strophanthus, and arsenic, and hfematinics, such as iron and arsenic, are among those most generally useful. Occasionally, in the extreme restlessness which is present in such conditions, it may be necessary to resoi-t to opium ; but it must be used with great caution because of the dangerous effect it may have upon the respira- tory centre. In certain cases in which the symjjtoms are the result of sudden and profuse loss of blood, the transfusion of blood, or the injection of saline solution into the veins of the patient, may be urgently called for. In con- nection with the other remedies which have been mentioned, it is possible that the administration of small doses of nitroglycerine may be useful,