ANEMIA 132 conditions as malaria, septicsemia, Bright's disease, rheumatism, etc. In long-standing anajmias the removal of the cause will not always effect a cure; the blood- forming organs may have become so feeble that they will not respond. In that case the lines of treatment indicated in the article " Chlorosis " should be followed. Anaemia, Pernicious. Introductory v . . . .132 Symptoms . . . . . .132 Course and Prognosis . . . .134 Morbid Anatomy . . . . .135 Pathology . . . . . .136 Diagnosis . . . . . .136 Treatment . . . . . .137 See also Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth, Hemorrhage into ; Chlorosis ; Hemoglobin- uria ; Meninges [Hcemorrhar/e) ; Oxygen ; Pregnancy, Affections and Causes of Death in; Purpura; Transfusion; aw/Urine, Patho- logical Changes in. I ntroductory.—" Progressive pernicious," "primary," "essential," "idiopathic" anajmia is the term employed to designate a group of severe ansemias which have almost invariably a fatal ending, in which, during life and after death, no sufficient cause for the anaemia can be found, and in which the post-mortem changes are mainly consequent on the ansemia so far as at present known. The cases which come under this heading are not nearly so numerous as they were at first considered to be. Inci-eased clinical and patho- logical investigation has made it possible to find a sufficient cause for many fatal ansemias which were at one time regarded as primary and per- nicious, and improvements in therapeutics have saved many lives. At present the term "per- nicious ansemia" covers a fairly well defined group of cases, with symptoms pretty constant and with a characteristic condition of the blood which seems at present to mark off this ansemia from most others. It is not to be forgotten, however, that the ansemias due to some intestinal parasites, in particvilar hothr-iocephalus and an- kylostoma, are not to be distinguished, either by their symptoms or by the state of the blood, from pernicious ansemia, and there is little doubt that further advances will enable us to find the cause of other apparently pernicious ansemias, until at last we are able to assign a cause to every case. The antecedents of patients affected with this disease are very various. Improper and insuffi- cient food, bad hygienic conditions, haemorrhages, infective diseases like typhoid fever, syphilis, and osteomyelitis, mental anxiety; among women, pregnancy, parturition, and lactation, and perhaps most frequently gastro-intestinal disturbances of various kinds, have all been regarded as causal factors in the production of the disease. They imdovibtedly can and do produce ansemia, but why the ansemia in the great majority of cases should be slight and curable and only occasionally pernicious and fatal, we have yet to learn. The unknown factor is the really important one. , Males and females are affected with about ; equal frequency, and while the condition may occur at all ages it is most common in adult I life, from thirty to fifty years of age. Symptoms.—The disease is usually extremely insidious, and its onset may extend over several months, though exceptionally it may develop rapidly. The symptoms are those of an in- creasing ansemia, lassitude, weakness, disinclina- tion for exertion and extreme fatigue after it, I dyspnoea, palpitation, a tendency to fainting, | increasing pallor, which is often of a markedly , yellow tinge in the early stages, and is then apt | to be confounded with jaundice, especially when ! it is associated, as is often the case, with loss of \ appetite, nausea, vomiting, and sometimes diar- I rhoea. Yet in spite of this the patient tends i rather to increase in weight, though it is usually obvious that the gain is due more to an increase of fat than of muscle. The patient does not usually seek advice until the disease is well established and the condition ' of the blood sufficiently altered to allow one to make an accurate diagnosis. The clinical picture is fairly constant. The pallor of the skin and mucous membranes I is the most striking symptom. It is usually j described as being of a lemon-yellow tint, and this is true in a large proportion of cases, but i there are other conditions—chlorosis, and other , severe secondary ansemias—in which the yellow j tint sometimes occurs, and it is not present in ! all cases of pernicious ansemia. The skin is often flabby and soft, and occasionally hsemor- ■ rhages are found in the later stages, and usually | in the skin of the legs. ^ The alirnentary system very often gives evi- \ dence of marked disturbance. The tongue is i pale and flabby, not usually much furred ; there I is often anorexia, pain after meals, flatulence, | and sometimes vomiting. Hydrochloric acid is [ often deficient or absent in the vomited material. 1 Diarrhoea is a frequent and troublesome symptom, i and often has a good deal to do with the rapid i loss of strength. It may alternate with con- stipation. The liver may be slightly enlarged, and is sometimes tender on palpation. The heart and vessels show the characteristic changes produced by ansemia to a marked ' degree. Palpitation is frequent, syncopal at-'; tacks not miusual, the pulse is rapid and its ' rate is at once affected by excitement or move- ment. In the early stages it may be full, later it is often small. The heart is dilated to & varying extent, and the usual systolic murmurs, of ansemia are very audible, especially at the