453 BONE, DISEASES OF 3. Innocent tumours (chondronia) and ri/ntK [hydatid). 4. Tul/erculoux or sfyj)hilitic swellinfi of the hone. 5. Secondary cancer may present precisely the same ajjpearances as a primary sarcoma of bone, and may evade diagnosis altogether unless its connection with a primary growth elsewhere (liver, breast, thyroid, prostate, rectum) is recognised. In all of the above, assistance may be olitained from the X-rays, or recourse may be had to exploratory incision with microscopical examina- tion of the suspected tissue. The Prognosis of sarcoma of bone varies— 1. With their malignancy, of which the readiest clinical indication is the rapidity of their growth before removal. 2. Witli their situation ; there is little hope where the skull, spine, or pelvis is involved, because their removal may be out of the (juestion, and because of the damage to the adjacent viscera; in tiie limbs the prognosis is graver the nearer the disease is to the trunk. 3. With their situation relative to the hone ; other things being equal, the periosteal are more dangerous to life because so many of the central tumours are myeloid in character, and therefore comparatively or actually innocent. It is not pos- sible, however, always to differentiate clinically between periosteal and central tvmiours. The latter are more often at the ends of bones, are better defined, are spherical or triangular in shape, and may yield egg-shell crackling on pressure. The former more often involve the shafts of bones, are ill-defined, and are spindle-shaped or fusiform. 4. The stage at irhich they are snh- jectecl to operative treatment. The Treatment of Sarcoma of Bone in the case of those which lend themselves to operative interference is removal at the earliest possible moment. Until recent years the invariable practice has been to perform amputation well above the growth where one i^f the bones of a limb is involved. This is still to be recommended as a routine procedure, with the single exception of myeloid tumours. It is only fair to add, however, that conservative operations have been performed, and in some instances with success, even in the case of cellular periosteal sarcomata (Mikulicz). Each case is to be dealt with on its own merits, and according to the operative ex- perience of the surgeon. If amputation is contemplated, tlie supposed sarcoma should always be explored just before its performance to make certain of its necessity. Another knife must be employed for the ampu- tation to prevent the risk of implanting the cells of the tiimour. As regards the amputation itself, it is not essential to go as high as the joint above, pro- vided the tissues are divided well beyond the tumour; skin-flaps with circular division of muscles is the method of choice. In cases where removal of the tumoiu' can hold out no prospect of permanent recovery {e.g. where there are secondary growths), relief from suffering, dis- charge, or haemorrhage may be a sufficient indi- cation for amputation, and in cases where pain is a prominent feature it may be worth while to remove the tumour, or even to trephine the shell of the bone. The operative treatment of sarcoma of the l)ones of the head and trunk is considered in the sections dealing with these special regions. The myeloid timiour of hone — often called myeloid sarcoma—is characterised by the enor- mous giant cells wliich form the most con- spicuous element of the tumour issue. They are met with in the same situations as sarcoma. They grow very slowly, or, after attaining a certain size, may become latent. The general health remains intact; secondary growths are quite the exception. In other respects the clinical features closely resemble those of a slowly growing central sarcoma of a long bone already described. Their prognosis is much more favovu-able than sarcoma. Their treatment is to be conducted on con- servative lines; it resembles that of tubercle in bone leather than sarcoma. The tumour must be extirpated, either by a process of digging out from the interior of the bone or by resecting the portion of bone affected. Amputation is only indicated if the whole end of a bone is destroyed, which is essential for the integrity and usefulness of the limb. Pulsating ok Erectile Tumours ok Bone— Aneurvsm of Bone. — The infrequency with which this condition is met with is responsible for the obscurity which exists concerning its nature. It would appear to be the result of special changes in an already existing tumour, sarcoma, endothelioma, or myeloma. The tumoTir tissue may largely or entirely disappear, while the vessels and vascular spaces of the tumour midergo a remarkable development. The tumour may come to be represented by one large blood- containing space communicating with the arteries of the limV); the walls of the space consist of the remains of the original tumour, plus a shell of l)one of varying thickness. The favourite seat of the condition is the lower end of the femur, the upjjer end of the tiV)ia, and the bones of the pelvis. The clin ical features are those of a pulsating timiour of slow development; the patient may or may not have observed the original stage in which the tmnour was solid; there may be considerable complaint of pain. The tumour maj' attain such dimensions that it may no longer suggest to the observer that it is of l)ony origin, unless he is able to recognise the parch- ment or egg-shell crackling on forcilily pressing on it with the fingers. As in true aneurysms, the pulsation (and bruit) disappear on compres-