ADRENAL GLANDS 72 by the mouth. There is no doubt, however, that some cases of Addison's disease do improve markedly after the administration of the extract by the mouth, and the possibility arises that by a rise of blood-pressure after adrenal feeding, patients with the disease might be distinguished from healthy persons. When the extract is given by the movith, as is ordinarily done, 15 grains of the gland is a convenient quantity to begin with ; this can be increased gradually. As much as two drachms of the gland substance have been taken daily without any bad effects; but the administration should be conducted with caution. Markedly depressant effects accompanied by febrile dis- turbance have been noted in some cases, and it is advisable that the treatment should only be followed out under circumstances admitting of careful observations of the case. Examination of published cases shows that the results are variable, sometimes great improve- ment or even cure is recorded, sometimes temporary improvement with relapse in spite of continued treatment, and unfortunately in about half the cases no improvement at all. In connection with the temporary amelioration observed in some instances it is possible that this was due to the effects of suggestion, or that it was merely a phase in the course of the disease and quite unconnected with the ad- ministration of the active principle of the glands. The disappointing and inconstant results of adrenal extract certainly support Dr. Bramwell's suggestion that while some cases—those that improve on this form of treatment—may be due to adrenal inadequacy, the remainder are due to an additional lesion of the neighbouring sympathetic. The lesion, as far as can be seen, is not adapted to surgical interference, though it is true that one case recovered after removal of a tuberculous adrenal body. The operation was performed for removal of what were supposed to be enlarged lymphatic glands. Other Diseases and Morbid Conditions of the Adrenal Glands Fatty Change . . . .72 hemorrhage . . . . . .72 Suppuration . . . . . .72 Syphilis ....... 72 Tubercle ...... 72 Lardaceous Disease . . . .73 Simple Tumours . . . . .73 Malignant Tumours . . . .73 Fatty Change.—In adult life the cells of the cortex very commonly contain globules of fat, but in children there is little or no fat normally. In toxic conditions and in marasmus, Attlee has found that the adrenal bodies of infants are more constantly affected by fatty degeneration than the liver. His experiments on animals showed that toxic and septic conditions and starvation led to the same result. Haemorrhage into the adrenal glands may be met with in a variety of conditions. (1) Traumatic, and due to some severe injury, such as fractured spine ; in such cases there may be extravasation of blood around the adrenal bodies and into their substance, usually into the medulla. In difficult labours the infants not uncommonly show extravasation into the medulla. In 105 still-born children Dr. H. Spenser found haemorrhage into the adrenal bodies in twenty-three cases, and in twenty-five children dying before the fifth day of life one showed hsemorrhage. (2) In asphyxia, haemorrhages occur into the lax tissue of the medulla; it may also occur in cases of chronic venous congestion. In these cases the cause of the haemorrhage is partly mechanical, but also perhaps partly toxic. (3) In toxic conditions. Experimentally the injection of diphtheritic and other toxins has this effect. In man haemorrhage may occur into the adrenal bodies in purpuric conditions. Cases in which haemorrhage into the adrenal glands occurred in unvaccinated infants and suggested the possibility of variola have been recorded by Andrewes, and Garrod and Drysdale. Occasion- ally in other toxaemic conditions haemorrhages are found. (4) In septicaemia and pyaemia. In septic and toxic conditions the adrenal bodies are swollen and their cells in a condition of cloudy swelling. The organs are softened, and on slight manipulation the medulla may give way so that the organ appears to contain a cavity. Embolism in pyaemia may give rise to small haemorrhages, and both in it and in septicaemia the organs are sodden, engorged, and may show extravasations. Suppuration may occur in pyaemia, as already stated, but the abscesses are small and of no clinical significance. Abscess in the suprarenal bodies without disease elsewhere is one of the rarest lesions. Caseous tubercles may soften down and imitate an ordinary abscess. Syphilis. — In congenital syphilis haemor- rhages sometimes occur into the adrenal bodies, and may be explained as toxic in origin. But as a result both of congenital and acquired syphilis, gummata, usually of small dimensions, may occur, but they are rare. A calcified gumma has been described in a girl two months old with extensive congenital syphi- litic lesions. Fibrosis and atrophy may excep- tionally occur in the subjects of the acquired disease. Tubercle.—In generalised tuberculosis miliary tubercles may be met with. Chronic tubercle always begins in the medulla, and not uncom- monly occurs without any clinical manifestations of Addison's disease. In 157 cases of tuberculous disease of various parts of the body this was