AMPUTATIONS 126 carried across the front of the limb, making an incision curved sHghtly downwards. There is practically no anterior flap. The tissues are retracted, the bones cleared, and both sawn at once. There may be too much muscle in the posterior flap, and it may be necessary to cut some of the muscle away. The anterior tibial artery may be the cause of another difficulty in this operation, as in some cases it retracts through the interosseous membrane, and is secured with difliculty. The objection to this operation is the weight of the posterior flap. It drags on the line of incision and therefore must be supported. This can best be done by means of a lead splint, which can easily be made from an oblong strip of sheet lead by dividing one end into three, turning up the middle third, and folding over the two sides, thus making a box in which the stump rests. Modified Circular Method.—Sometimes the above method is not available. In such cases one may use the modified circular method, or even the racket incision. In all amputations at this level I recommend the removal of a large slice of the projecting angle of the tibia, so that there will be no tendency to ulceration of the anterior flap. The head of the fibula, if hanging loose, should not be removed for two reasons: (1) because it gives attachment to the biceps muscle; (2) because the superior tibio-fibular joint communicates with the knee-joint in a certain proportion of cases. Should sepsis occur this might lead to serious and even dangerous complications. Amputations at the Knee-Joint By a Long Anterior Flap.—In this amputa- tion, sometimes adopted in cases of injury, the patella is left and the femur is not divided. A very long anterior flap is necessary in order to cover the condyles. If the tissues at the back of the limb are not severely damaged it may be as well to perform amputation at the seat of election. Introduce the knife a little below and behind one condyle of the femur, and carry it down the front of the limb to a point at least two fingers' breadth below the tubercle of the tibia, and then carry it up to the other condyle. Dissect up the skin to the ligamentum patellae, divide the ligament, and turn up the patella. Make the postei'ior flap as long as possible, then disarticulate. The cicatrix will be on the posterior aspect and the stump an excellent one. If a sufficiently long flap cannot be obtained, portions of the condyles of the femur must be removed. Stephen Smith's Method.—This is a method sometimes used for disarticulating at the knee- joint by means of lateral flaps. An incision is made, beginning at the tubercle of the tiliia in front, curving downwards and outwards to a corresponding point on the posterior aspect of the limb. A similar flap is made on the inner side. The cicatrix in this case is also posterior. Amputations through the Condyles op the Femur Garden's Amputation.—Place the finger and thumb upon the condyles of the femur, then enter the knife behind and on a lower level than the condyle on one side. Carry it in a curved direction over the front of the limb to a corresponding point on the other side. Dissect up the skin flap to the centre of the patella. The assistant then flexes the knee. This carries the patella forward and the joint is entered above the patella. Having opened the joint, make a vertical incision in the long axis of the limb on each side, passing downwards from the upper ends of the anterior curved incision. Then, with one sweep of the knife, make the posterior flap. The bone is sawn just below the level of the highest part of the articular surface. This gives a broad surface and an excellent stump. Gritti-Stokes' Amputation.—-The same in- cisions are made in the soft parts, but the patella is dissected up with the anterior flap. The bone is not divided as low down as in Carden's operation, but is sawn a little above the articular surface. The patella is left after having its articular surface removed in the following manner :—-The anterior flap is grasped so as to expose the articular surface of the bone, and then a thin section of the bone is sawn off". The patella becomes united to the sawn surface of the femur. One advantage of this operation is that the patellar bursa is not interfered with. If the femur is divided too low down there is apt to be tilting of the patella, and I have sometimes found it ad- vantageous in cases of very muscular men to divide the tissues above the patella on the inner surface of the flap. In other cases I have found it an advantage to fix the patella. The cicatrix in this operation has a tendency to pass backwards and upwards. Amputations through the Thigh In amputations through the lower third of the thigh either the operation by long anterior and short posterior flaps or the modified circular method may be employed. In the flap amputa- tion the flaps are made practically as in Carden's operation, but higher up. In amputa- tions through the middle third of the thigh the modified circular method is probably the best. It gives an excellent covering for the femur. In this situation the length of the stump is specially important. Amputations at the Hip-Joint This operation is comparatively easy after excision of the head of the femur; it is more