231 AORTA (THORACIC), ANEURYSM AND DILATATION OF warmth of the hands and their vascularity showed that the blood flowed into them as before." The writer made a similar observation some years ago, and can verify Dr. Fagge's statement from his own experience. Course and Terminations. — Few diseases justify a more gloomy prognosis than intra- thoracic aneurysm, and yet the disease may be survived for years, and this, too, without any great measure of suffering. Wiiat may be termed the accidents of the disease are niunerous, and for the most part speedily lethal. First of all, the sac may rupture and effusion of blood may take place externally through the skin, when it is to a certain extent under control. The skin, how- ever, may become red or bruise-stained, and yet the threatening process be stayed. More fre- quently haemorrhage takes place into a serous potential sac, as the pleura or pericardium, or into a mucous canal, as the trachea or ojsophagus. In the latter cases the blood, of course, appears externally as a profuse hajmoptysis or hsema- temesis. Instead of enumerating in detail the parts into which intrathoracic aneurysms have l)een known to rupture, the statement of the late Dr. Walshe, in his classic work, may be (pioted as sufficiently comprehensive: " There is no conceivable position into which fatal rupture has not occurred," and mention may be made of three of the most remarkable, namely, the pulmonary artery, the vena cava, and the cavities of the heart itself. Even profuse external haemorrhage from an aneurysm is not necessarily immediately fatal, and patients may live for days with a gradually increasing extent of chest wall, and aorta replaced by lint, in which state a patient of Dr. Walshe's lived for nearly two months. The late Dr. Ramsay, of Broughty Ferry, again, related the following extraordinary experience of a patient of his :— The man was the subject of a large projecting aneurysm of the arch, which one day ruptured externally, a stream of blood issuing from it. Nothing daunted, he coolly held a vessel to receive the blood till faintness came on, when the bleeding stopped. The patient recovered from this accident and lived several months, dying ultimately, not from his aneurysm, but from typhus fever! Even rupture into the gullet may be survived for several hours. In a^ case of this kind seen by the writer, acute delirium supervened during the time survived. In tracheal or bronchial perforation, oozing of blood, causing blood-tinged spiita, for several weeks may precede the final gush from rupture. In true internal rupture, as into the pleura, sudden pallor and convulsions fi'om cerebral aniieraia are the common symptoms. An aneurj'sm of the posterior part of the arch, or of the descending aorta, occasionally reaches the spinal canal by corrosion of the vertebrae. The writer once witnessed the symptoms of this occurrence. The patient was under treatment in hospital, and suddenly cried out with mtense pain in his back, which was only relieved by large hypodermic doses of morphia. Soon after the onset of the jaain he began to complain of being unable to move his legs, and next morning was quite paraplegic. The diagnosis was verified by post-mortem a few days later. But many intrathoracic aneurysms prove fatal without the occurrence of rupture. The pressure of the sac upon the trachea and Ijronchi and the lung-changes tliat such pressure is apt to induce are frequent causes of death ; patients often die apparently from exhaustion and as- thenia, but generally there is some acute terminal condition, such as pneimionia, while rupture of the sac internally is not rarely the cause of death, although it escaped clinical recognition. Treatment.—It has been said with grim truth that the efhcacy of a treatment l)ears inverse proportion to the number of methods and means employed. The treatment of intrathoracic aneurysm offers no contradiction of the state- ment. Un(juestionably, a great deal can be done to mitigate the sufferings of the patient, and when the disease is discovered early, to slow and possibly to stay its advance. Nature in the rarest of cases brings about practical obliteration of a small sac by clot-formation, but such small sacs have usually never given rise to symptoms calling for medical treatment. Of the niunerous methods of local treatment employed with the view of originating and pro- moting clot-formation, it is imjiossible to give even a short description that would enable a reader to apply the treatment without reference to minute detail only to be obtained in original monographs. The writer has witnessed the application of one of these methods—that by galvanism and acupuncture—on several occa- sions, but he cannot say that he has seen results that make him in any way desirous of adopting the treatment. On the other hand, he has seen life prolonged free from any great suffering for a considerable period mider the most unfavour- able circumstances, as when a large portion of the sac wall has been composed of lint soaked in blood-clotting solutions, as in Dr. Walshe's case already related. He doubts if much better results have followed any of the ingenious attempts at the local treatment of intrathoracic aneurysm that have been made. Such methods as entail pain and suffering to the patient are to be most strongly deprecated. A great deal can always be done to relieve suffering by the hypodermic employment of morphia guarded by an infinitesimal quantity of atropine,—and this, too, when the relief seems hardly to be expected, as, for instance, when the sac compresses the trachea and produces paroxysmal dyspnoea. The writer has under such circumstances, however, been able rapidly to remove what seemed to be a suffocative ]3aroxysm, and to repeat the treatment with an