17 ABDOMINAL ANEURYSM aortic aneurysm, 59 aft'ected tlie abdominal aorta); the various types, the true, false, dis- secting, and arterio-venous aneurysm occur, the false aneurysm being the most common. Its ETIOLOGY is the same as that of other aneui-ysms; it occurs much more frequently in men than women (8:1), and affects most frequently persons between the age of thirty and fcjrty; a traumatic cause can often Vje traced, the trauma having occurred months or even years before the symptoms are pronounced. Indirect traumatic causes may also be men- tioned, as in one recorded case where a bristle 5 cm. long was found in the wall of the artery, which must have passed from the oesophagus, and caused a tear in the median coat of the aorta. The true and false aneurysm occurs on any part of the abdominal aorta, but it is most frequently found above the couliac axis, rarer at the cojliac axis, and rarer still at the bifurcation of the abdominal aorta ; the dissecting aneurysm takes its origin mostly from the thoracic aorta near the heart, and it commences, therefore, above the abdominal aorta, and extends to a variable distance, forming a tube which mostly stops at the bifurcation, but may extend to the iliacs ; the arterio-venous ;uieurysm, of which one typical case has been described by Pitt, is mostly situated at the bifurcation where the abdonunal aorta is in close contact with the iliac veins. As a rule, there is only one aneurysm, but occasionally a large one and several small ones have been found; the coexistence of thoracic and abdominal aneurysm has also been noticed. The anatomy and pathogenesis of abdominal aneurysm is the same as that of aneurysm in other regions. The coverings of the false aneurysm vary according to its situation and direction of growth—when growing backwards the retro-peritoneal tissue, the vertebne which are eroded, etc., form jiart of the covering, when growing upwards the diaphragm, when growing downwards the psoas muscle, if it grows in a forward direction the peritoneum covering the stomach, transverse colon or descending colon, or kidney may form part of its boundaries. Symptoms.—The symptoms vary considerably according to the rapidity and direction of the growth of the aneurysm. In some cases it may give rise to no symptoms, and sudden death may occur from rupture into the abdominal cavity ; in others the symptoms may simulate spinal caries with compression-myelitis ; in others the symptoms may simulate a new growth ; in many cases, however, though the initial symptoms observed may be indifferent, the aneurysm after a time gives rise to char- acteristic symptoms. The symptoms may be divided into— 1. The physical signs of the aneurysm. 2. Pressui'e symptoms. VOL. I 3. Secondary and general symptoms due to constitutional disturbance. 1. Flii/sical Signs.— A ttmioiir is noticed situated along some part of the course of the abdominal aorta, mostly in the epigastrium, or to the left of the cpigastriimi, rarely to the right, or the tumour may be detected in the back of the lumbar region forming a diffuse swelling. The tumour is smootli, more or less globular, and sometimes of an elastic feeling, somewhat compressible and often painfid on pressure, and a distinct systolic thrill may be felt; the tumour may be fixed or movable, it may extend upwards and cause pi'ojection of the lowest ribs on the left side, or extend into the pelvis. The tumour does not move on respiration, or slightly so when adherent to the diaphragm or passing imder the rilis. The percussion note over tlie tumour if it be large is dull, if it be small the stomach and colon overlying it may give a high tympanitic note. A most important sign is pulsation, which may be visible, and if not visible it can be made out on palpation and on pressure ; the pulsation is systolic or post-systolic, sometimes diastolic, and on placing the tumour between the hands, is felt to be distinctly expansile. On auscultation one often hears a systolic murmur over the aneurysm and sometimes beyond it, at other times only a systolic sound is heard, very rai'ely a systolic and diastolic bruit. Pressure and posture may alter the bruit, and may make it disappear. Occasionally the systolic munnur may be heai-d in the back, especially when visible btdging is noticed in the back, and occasionally, even, when only pressure symptoms occur and there is no tumour to be felt, this murmur over the back may be heai'd. On the other hand, it must be stated that the nuirmur may be absent, and that a nuu-mur may be heard over a normal aorta by pressure of the stethoscope, and over a solid tumour resting on tlie abdominal aorta. In some cases the aneui-ysmal tumour is solid, not pulsating, and in this case a murmur may not be heard. Other signs depending on the anem-ysmal tumour are— (1) The pulsation does not disajjpear M-hen the patient i-ests on his hands and knees. (2) The pulse in the femorals is often re- tarded. (3) Sudden pressure on the tumour causes a markedly increased tension in the femorals, and the sudden relaxation of the pressure diminishes the tension, and may even cause a disappearance of two or three beats in the femoral. (4) Compression of both femorals causes an increased pressure in the aneur3'sm (a dangerous experiment, which might cause rupture of the aneurysm). In some cases the tumour shows no pulsation, and may give rise onh' to dulness on percussion and cause displacement of the viscera. Occasionally the tumour may be very 2