264 ARTERIES, DISEASES OF possible to separate the deterioration of pure senility from that caused by faulty nutrition due to mechanical impediment. In this organ the main risks from atheroma are htemorrhage and thrombosis, and of these the former is the greater. Reference has already l)een made to the great clinical importance of bearing in mind the relation in which the strength of the left ventricle stands to atheroma in the cerebral vessels. Conditions which temporarily increase the driving power of the heart and raise arterial pressure often lead to disastrous results; extra physical strain, mental emotion, a large meal, or too much alcohol, may all be the immediate cause of cerebral haemorrhage. On the other hand, a feeble driving power on the part of the heart, commonly due to a degenerating and ill- nourished myocardium, often leads to repeated thrombosis in different regions of the brain, to consequent ai'eas of softening, and to phenomena due to the part of the brain affected. In addition to atheroma there occiu's in the small nutrient arteries of the brain a progressive endarteritis such as has been already referred to as occurring both in this organ and in the kidneys as an accompaniment of arteriosclerosis. In it the tunica intima progressively thickens, and ultimately leads to occlusion of the vessel, and this without any atheromatous degeneration of the thickened part. This condition of the arteries is found in the brains of persons who have shown a slow but progressive mental im- pairment, and who ultimately develop either partial motor incapacity or such a degree of it as renders them unable to walk or stand or to use the hands for any useful purpose. The gi'adual onset and steady downward progress of such cases is readily explained by the progres- sive arterial changes which steadily lead to a lessening of blood-supply to portions of the brain, until the supply is wholly cut off and there follows multiple areas of softening. The changes in the small arteries in these cases so closely correspond to syphilitic endarteritis that it seems to the writer open to question whether all these cases may not be due to syphilis. A similar endarteritis occurs, as has been mentioned, in the branches of the renal artery inside the kidneys. This leads to areas of atrophy in these organs, and theoretically at least to a measure of incompetence; but these special organs seem to have a very wide margin —a statement borne out by the fact that one kidney can do the work usually done by two. It is unsafe, therefore, to lay much stress upon the question of incompetence. In other organs a like endarteritis is said to occur and to interfere with special functions, but the organs mentioned are the most im- portant. The Relation of Arterial Change to certain DEFINITE Nervous Diseases.—Recently Chalmers Watson and Ford Robertson have anew con- tended that the vascular changes which are present in tabes dorsalis and in the general paralysis of the insane are primary, and that the changes in the surrounding nerve tissue are secondary to and consequent upon them. The contention is that a toxin is present which acts upon the vessels in the special regions affected in those two diseases and leads to the vascular alteration. The toxin is regarded as having a special ailinity for the regions implicated, or that the resisting power of the part is, from congenital or other causes, so lowered that the toxin acts upon it while not acting upon con- tiguous jjarts. Arterial Hypertonus. — This term has recently been applied by the present writer to a condition of artery characterised by tightening of it. Tone is the term commonly used to denote the degree of tonic contraction of arteries; and this tone may be diminished when the vessel is known as relaxed ; it may, on the other hand, be excessive, and to this the writer has applied the term hypertonus. This hypertonus is characterised clinically by a thickening of the arterial wall and a diminution in its lumen. It can be recognised by the finger, and the difference in the diameter of the vessel can be measured by Oliver's arteriometer. The condi- tion is frequently mistaken for arteriosclerosis. It is caused by the presence in the circulation of poisons or toxins, and as these are eliminated or counteracted the vessel relaxes. The condi- tion occurs in persons even with diseased arteries, and is frequently the immediate cause of mental and motor phenomena in such per- sons, as can be proved by the phenomena pass- ing off with the relaxation of the over-tightened- up arteries. Treatment.—The treatment of the conditions which have been dealt with in this article may be considered from the two standpoints of pre- vention and of palliation. From the former, namely prevention, the methods adopted will depend upon the view taken of the cause and nature of the arterial affection. It is an axiom in medicine that "a man is as old as his arteries," and it is recog- nised that from this standpoint many men show premature senility. The causes of premature arterial changes are not so generally under- stood, and whenever a change is of such slow development as it is in the conditions under consideration, there is a wide margin for differ- ence of view. The first proposition which may be laid down is that the constitution or chemical composition of the blood exercises an important influence on the vessel wall and on the circula- tion through the vessels. Illustration of this is seen in the tension of the arterial wall in nephritis; the vascular condition being the result of the retention of waste products of metabolism in the blood. An analogous condi- tion of vessel wall is often present in persons