235 APHASIA solution is incomplete. The best way to obtain an insight into the pathological physiology of apliasia is to contrast the speech derangements which result from disease with the different stages of speech development in the young child. I cannot insist too strongly upon this point. It is, in my opinion, the very basis of an intelligent comprehension of the whole subject of aphasia. The Evolution of the Speech Faculties.— In the development of the speech faculties in the young child, the auditory speech centre is first opened up, and it is only after it has reached a certain, though very rudimentary, degree of education that the associated niotoi'-vocal speech centre Ijegins to become really active as an intellectual machine. The infant, long before it can talk, can comprehend much that is said to it. In the course of time, but only as the result of much practice and repeated efforts, the action of the motor-vocal speech centre becomes perfected. In this process of education the child first learns to connect certain sounds and combinations of sounds (names and words) with certain objects, actions, attributes, etc., and to repeat many words like a parrot {i.e. without understanding their meaning); then to answer questions, and finally to talk spontaneously. The auditory speech centre and the associated motor (vocal) speech centre—the fuiidamantal speech centres — acquire a high degree of functional activity in every normal inclividual, however inieducated he may be. Hence word- deafness and motor-vocal aphasia are met with in the most uneducated persons. It is only long afterwards that the visual speech centre and the associated motor centre (the motor- writing centre) are trained to play their part as active speech mechanisms ; and even nowadays these accessory speech mechanisms, as they may be termed, ai'e sometimes untrained, for one still meets with illiterates who ai'c unable either to read or write. PaTHOLOGICAI; lNTHt)DUCTIO\ The sensory aphasias (word-deafness and word- Itlindness) may Ije regarded as sensory jmralysls; motor aphasia may be regarded as a motor jmralysis; and paragraphia may, I think, lie regiirded as an ataxia of speech, exactly compar- able to the ataxia of tabes dorsalis, and like it associated with more or less marked sensory speech defects, and due to a lesion on the in going or sensory side of the cerebral speech mechanism. Causes of Aphasia.—In some cases of aphasia the paralysis of the speech function is the result of organic disease, in others of functional or nutritional changes. Any lesion which destroys or interrupts the function of the speech centres in the cerebral cortex, of the conducting tracts which pass to or from these speech centres, or of the connecting fibres or tracts which pass between these speech centres, may produce aphasia. The organic lesions which are the most common causes of aphasia are—embolic or thrombotic plugging of the nutrient arteries, hemorrhagic extravasations, cerebral tiuuours, and cerebral abscesses. In the case of embolic plugging and htemorrhagic extravasation the aphasic symptoms are suddenly produced; in the case of thrombotic plugging the aphasic symp- toms are usually' produced quickly (in the course of a few hours), but not so suddenly and rapidly as in embolism and haiinorrhage ; in the case of abscess and tumour the aphasic symptoms are usually produced still more gradually. The more common causes of temporarj^ or functional aphasia are—temporary antemia of the speech area, reflex inhibition of the speech centres, the cortical exhaustion following an epi- leptic tit, a congestive attack in general para- lysis of the insane, or an attack of migraine; and the temporary changes, whether of a functional or structural kind, which are developed in the cerebral tissues in the course of hysteria, chorea, urtemia, lead poisoning, alcoholic poisoning, general debility, etc. The usual form of tempo- rary (functional) aphasia is inability to speak (temporary motor-vocal aphasia); but temporary word-blindness with hemianopsia is probably not unconnnon. Temporary word-deafness is probal)ly much more rare. Temporary para- phasia and temporary agraphia or paragraphia occasionally occur. The Clinical Features of Aphasia The Symptomatology of Word - Deafness (Auditory Aphasia).—In typical and uncompli- cated cases of complete word-deafness (inability to understand spoken language) the patient is not deaf (though in some cases there is some impairment of hearing); he can hear ordinary sounds and noises, such as the ticking of a M'atch ; but he is unable to intelligenth^ compre- hend speech sounds (words, spoken language). He is in the position of a man who is spoken to in a language with which he is absolutely un- acquainted ; he hears the words as sounds, but he has no knowledge of theii- meaning as speech sounds. Word-deafness in a complete form is, in my experience, the rarest form of aphasia. In many cases the word-deafness is incomplete, the degree of the defect being very variable in different cases. The exact character of the symptoms varies with the position of the lesion—whether it is subcortical or cortical. Tlte symptojns characteristic of siihcortlcal vord- deafness.—When the lesion merely involves the ingoing (afferent) fibres which pass to the audi- tory speech centime, the only results are—{a) word-deafness (inability to imderstand spoken language); {b) inability to repeat spoken lan- guage ; and (c) inability to write from dictation. In cases of subcortical auditory aphasia the '■^ way in for spoken, speech'' is blocked ; the audi-