BRAIN—ATROPHY, HYPERTROPHY, CYSTS, INFLAMMATIONS 501 development and progressive in advance, and may eventually involve an extensive area of brain substance. The white matter more frequently sufters in the cerebral hemispheres, while in the cere- bellum it is generally the grey cortical portion. PatJhoIoijiml Anatomy.—The affected areas are generally whitish in colour, and of soft consistence. They are composed of the remains of degenerated nerve-fibres, and considerable atrophy of brain substance may follow as a result. The vessels in the majority of cases are certainly diseased. The etiology is probably almost entirely that of vascular disease, especially atheroma, and the condition is one often affecting debilitated patients who have passed middle life. The clinical features, as far as they can be described from recorded cases, are very similar to those met with in cerebral thrombosis, only more gradual in onset and advance. There may be premonitory symptoms, such as headache, giddiness, and mental enfeeblement, followed by unilateral sensory and motor pheno- mena, such as tingling, numbness, weakness in one limb, and spreading to the other parts of the same side. Spasm may occur, but is infrequent, and mental weakness, although eventually gener- ally well marked, may at first not be recognis- able. The disease lasts for months, or even years, and during this time the symptoms become more marked, death being due sometimes to bed-sores, more often to intercurrent disease. The diagnosis is often dilficult. It is closely allied in symptomatology to cerebral thrombosis, and it also resembles, according to Gowers, intracranial tumour. It certainly lacks the definiteness of either of these. Optic neuritis, severe headache, vomiting, and focal symptoms suggest tumour. T'he prognosis is against recovery, although the patient may remain for months in statu quo. The treatment much resembles that usually recommended for cerebral thrombosis, but is not very hopeful. Acute Encephalitis Inflammation of the brain mav Ije the residt of— (1) Inflannnation of tiie membranes, to whicli it is a necessary sequel. (2) Injury to the brain, such as by a blow or fracture, and here meningitis is not an infrequent accompaniment. (3) A local irritant, such as disease of a cranial bone, the pressure of a tumour, and so forth. (4) A patch of cerebral softening or a luemor- rhage, the degree of inflammation varying greatly in different cases. (5) The presence of a pus-forming or infective oi'ganism. (6) Closely allied to the last, there are cases which are not all proved to be due to the local presence of organisms, but which occur in in- fective diseases, such as sypliilis, influenza, typhoid fever, erysipelas, scarlet fever. These cases are often described as disseminated enceph- alitis, or difl'use non-suppurative encephalitis. (7) In tetanus, in hyperpyrexia, and in not a few cases of toxtemia intense local areas of hyperjemia, with sometimes hasmorrhages, and not infrequently perivascular aggregation of leucocytes, are often seen in the medulla, phenomena strongly suggesting im inflamma- tory process. It should be stated that purulent encephalitis is described under " Cerebral Abscess" and is not included here (p. 519). Pathological Anatomy.—The area affected is always red in colour, thus sharply distinguishing cercbritis from a patch of ordinary necrotic softening. This is due to hsemorrhage into the area affected and distension of vessels, especially capillaries, and there are always numerous leucocytes, especially around the vessels. The nerve-cells and fibres undergo degeneration, the cells swelling up, losing their processes, often becoming pigmented, and eventually may break down, the medullated fibres undergoing Wallerian degeneration, and the axis cylinders forming l)ead-like swellings before they too become un- recognisable. There may be well-marked pro- liferation of neuroglia cells in certain cases. The area of cerebritis is never sharply outlined from healthy tissue, but neighbouring brain matter suffers definite injury. Large areas or small areas may suffer. There are cases which have been called acute focal encephalitis, and most of these are hEemorrhagic. Striimpell contended for the recognition of this condition, which he believes to be analogous to acute jjolio- myelitis anterior, and Moebius, Schmidt, and others have described such cases as occurring in adults and children. In one typical case an area of deeply blood-stained debris was found in the left corpus striatum, and minute ha3mor- rhages were scattered over other parts of the brain. The lesion diffei's from that found in the cord, inasmuch as the inflammation is not limited as definitely to the grey matter. Lamy, Redlick, and Beyer desci'ibe polio-encephalitis and poliomyelitis anterior acuta occiuTing in the same patients. Wernicke first drew atten- tion to a polio-encephalitis acuta hfemorrhagica superior where the area of cerebritis involves the floor of the fourth A'entricle and the aqueduct of Sylvius. This is simply an acute focal en- cephalitis in which hfemorrliage is marked, and which occurs in a special site. Where recovery occurs, partial absorption of the softened area may result, just as in an area of non-inflammatory softening, or before a fatal issue suppuration may ensue. In disseminated encephalitis there may be little scattered foci of inflammation, sometimes containing micrococci or other organisms, and