ASTHMA 314 A still more important case is recorded by A. Fraenkel. a gouty, bronchitic, and em- physematous man, who had suffered from asthma for two or three years, died during a paroxysm. The bronchi were dilated, and their mucous membrane markedly reddened and filled with tenacious material. No typical spirals could be detected in it; but it con- tained some threads, apparently fibrinous, and abundant ciliated epithelium. The middle and small bronchi showed marked desquamative catarrh, the cylindrical epithelium was raised over large areas from the underlying tissue and completely blocked the widened lumen of the tube. Elongated epithelial cells abounded on the surface from which the epithelium had been cast. There was considerable increase of inter- stitial and inter-alveolar tissue. Infiltration of lymph cells into the walls and lumen of the bronchi was noticed, and here and there it appeared as if pus were forming. Nature and Etiology.—The post-mortem appearances described do not disclose either the exact condition of the lung tissues which actually causes the attack, or the real nature of the ailment. On the former point many opinions have been entertained, which may be divided into three classes. (1) The view that spasm of the bronchial muscles is the immediate cause of the asthmatic paroxysm has longest held the field. Willis, as early as 1670, promulgated the opinion that what we now know as asthma is a spasmodic or convulsive ailment due to spasm of the air- tubes; and Floyer, in 1698, regarded contrac- tion of the bronchial tubes as the cause of asthma. The discovery of Keisseissen of the bronchial muscles seemed to explain the asthmatic paroxysm, but for a long time there was great doubt concerning the action of these muscles. In 1840, C. J. B. Williams showed that the bronchi contract on stimulation, but he did not discover the action of the vagus on them. This, however, was shown by Longet and Volkmann, and Roy and Graham Brown have definitely shown that stimulation of the vagus is capable either of dilating or contracting the bronchi. Williams, Hyde Salter, Wilson Fox, and Thorowgood, in this country, and Laennec, Trousseau, Riegel, and Biermer, on the Con- tinent, may be mentioned among those who have attributed asthmatic attacks to bronchial spasm. Williams and Walshe held the same view, but also thought that paralysis of the bronchial muscles might, under some conditions, give rise to asthmatic paroxysma. With regard to the method by which contrac- tion of the bronchi causes the symptoms and physical signs of asthma, opinions have also differed. Biermer has suggested that the con- traction of the bronchi is more readily overcome by inspiration than expiration. Hence the lung becomes distended, for the bronchi are sufficiently dilated during inspiration for air to enter through them, which the expiratory power is insufficient to expel. It can be easily understood how, under these conditions, dilata- tion of the air-cells can take place, and how, too, occasionally, lung collapse may occur, when bronchi are so contracted that they do not become sufficiently expanded during inspiration to admit a due supply of air. Biermer has suggested, too, that after long contraction the muscles may lose their power, and that this may lead to emphysema. (2) Wintrich and Bamberger have expressed the opinion that spasm of the diaphragm plays the chief part in the pi'oduction of paroxysmal attacks, whilst Budd, Jaccoud, and G. See have attached more importance to spasm of the respiratory muscles. It has been held by Lebert that diaphragmatic spasm follows and is to some extent induced by spasm of the bronchi. (3) Asthmatic attacks are commonly, possibly always, accompanied by changes in the bronchial mucous membrane, but very divergent views have been expressed with regard to the relation of these changes to the attacks. Biermer has suggested that the bronchial spasm may cause alterations in the mucous membrane, though he also holds that fluctionary hypersemia may be primary. A. Fraenkel inclines to the view that asthmatic attacks are due to bronchial spasm, but that concomitant changes of various kinds take place in the mucous membrane. The epithelium exfoliates, the spasm aids the pro- cess, and the cast-off epithelium blocks up the air-passages. An English physician named Bree, writing in 1807, attributed asthma to the irritating nature of the contents of the bronchi, and held that the spasmodic attacks were due to the efforts of the lung to remove the cause of irritation. Views somewhat allied to this have been pro- mulgated by Leyden and Curschmann. The former thinks that asthmatic attacks are due to material transuded into the cells and bronchi, and that the crystals developing in it play some part in causing bronchial spasm. The latter assumes the existence of a special affection of the bronchial mucous membrane, bronchiolitis exudativa, leading to the same result. Several French writers—Rostan, Beau, and Louis—in the early part of the century also looked upon asthma as due to catarrhal affection of the bronchi. Very recently, in his Lumleian lectures. Gee has expressed a similar belief. He holds that asthma is merely a peculiar form of bronchitis, and that there is no need for any hypothesis of spasm in order to explain the phenomena of the disease. Berkart, too, dis- cards all idea of bronchial spasm, and regards asthma "as an acute paroxysmal, nay, almost erysipelatous form of inflammation, which ex- tends from the pharynx upwards and down-