287 ASCITES associated with renal ascites, the higher limit with that of cardiac disease. In the amount and nature of salts, ascitic fluid resembles lymph. A trace of sugar is often present. Microscopical examination, after centrifuiialising the fluid, may show a few leucocytes, red blood corpuscles, endothelial cells, and occasionally crystals of cholestcrine. It is usually sterile. (2) Sero - Fibrinous Fluid resulting from peritonitis, whether simple, tuberculous, or carcinomatous. In colour and appeai'ance it often resembles the serous effusion, but it may acquire a reddish tint from admixture of blood. It is often clear. It may be opalescent, and in some cases it has been found to be milky, this appearance being due neither to the admixture of chyle nor to the presence of fat-globules, but to granules of globulin and nucleo-albumen. In the more acute inflammatory coiaditions it is apt to become turbid, owing to a great inci'ease in the number of leucocytes. It diflers from serous fluid in containing a larger amount of proteid, viz. from 2-5 to 6-0 per cent, in show- ing a greater tendency to spontaneous coagula- tion (the clot being often deposited in sheets or shreds among the abdominal contents), and in having a higher specific gravity, viz. from 1014 to 1024. No dependence can be placed on the appearance of cells, as distinctive of carcinoma, unless they are present in large numbers. Tul)ercle-bacilli are rarely found, but inoculation of a guinea-pig with the deposit obtained by centrifugalising affords a better chance of success. (3) H^EMORRHAGic Fluid.—A reddish tint may be acquired in cases of tuberculous or carcinomatous infection of the peritoneum. In I'are cases, particularly in cirrhosis, less com- monly with carcinoma, the ascitic fluid may come to resemble pure blood. In the cin-hotic cases a pleuritic effusion has also been found to be ha;morrhagic. It may be presumed that the blood is derived from the rupture of vessels in the peritoneum or in newly-formed adhesions. (4) Chylous Fluid is white and milky. Microscopic examination reveals the molecular basis of chyle, which consists chiefly of minute fatty particles, of which few are large enough to be recognised as fat-globules. The fat is in the form of an emulsion. A few lymphocytes may be found. It is alkaline, and of high specific gravity, about 1022. As compared with seroxis effusion the proteid-percentage is high, being between 2-0 and 4-5. The most striking difference, however, lies in the presence of fat, which amounts to I'O or 2-0 per cent, serous fluid, on the other hand, containing only a trace (0-04) of substances soluble in ether. A trace of sugar may be present. (5) Milky non-ciiylous Ascites (Hydrops ADiposus).—The milky appearance here is due to large and small fat-globules, and to large cells resembling colostrum-corpuscles. If allowed to stand in a tall glass, a creamy layer may form on the surface. It is occasionally met with in simple chronic, tuberculous, or carcinomatous peritonitis. It is due to the fatty degeneration of endothelial or carcinomatous cells, and it must be carefully distinguished from the true chylous form of effusion. General Effects of Ascites. — In extreme cases the fluid may amount to four or five gallons. Long before this extreme is reached a feeling of weight and discomfort is experienced, and the patient, if still able, walks with head and shoulders thrown back and legs wide apart. The tension of the fluid may be great, amoiuit- ing to 25 or 30 mm. of mercury, and cases have been recorded where the umbilicus has given way. The fluid may distend the sac of a hernia. The skin of the abdomen is tense, smooth, and glistening, and linete albicantes are commonly present about the groins and flanks. Superficial veins may become visible, especially in tlie groins, irrespective of the cause of the ascites. From pressure on the vena cava, oedema of the lower extremities may result. To similar pressure on the renal veins may be attributed a diminu- tion in the amount of urine and albuminuria. The tension in the abdomen serves to check the descent of the diaphragm. Breathing is carried on chiefly Ijy the upper costal muscles, and is shallow. The heart may be displaced upwards, and irregularity of its action, or even faintness, may ensue. The basal parts of the lungs collapse, and the patient cannot breathe freely unless he is proijped up in bed. Gastric and intestinal disorders are common, l)ut are mainly attributable to the disease, of which the ascites is the result. Physical Signs of Ascites.—Free fluid in the peritoneal cavity is to be recognised by enlarge- ment of the abdomen, by substitution of dulness for the normal intestinal resonance, and by detection of a fluid " thrill" or wave. The abdomen becomes uniformly and symmetrically enlarged, with a tendency to bulge forwards and downwards when the patient is erect, but bulging laterally when he is recumbent. In extreme cases the lower ribs are pushed outwards, and the ensiform cartilage is upturned. In long-standing cases the unil)ilicus is often pn> truded. The fluid, which is free to move in the peri- toneal cavity, naturally accumulates in its lower parts, while the gas-containing stomach and intestine float upwards so far as their attach- ment will allow. In small effusions there may be onlv a little dulness in the flanks, which may reasonably be attrilnited to a loaded colon. In such a doubtful condition the fluid may be caused to gravitate towards the umbilicus, and to yield a dull note there, by jilacing the patient in the knee-elbow position. As the fluid increases in amount, dulness appears also above the