330 AUDITOKY NEKVE AND LABYRINTH labyrinthine origin have a more definite musical pitch than those due to middle-ear disease. Tinnitus without dulness of hearing is attribut- able to neurasthenic irritability of the auditory centres, and is often associated with abnormal sensibility to sound (hyperacusis). Elaborated tinnitus, taking the form of voices littering spoken words, is a cerebral or mental affection. It is an auditory illusion if it is merely an erroneous interpretation of a simple tinnitus produced by a detectable disease of the middle or internal ear, a delusion or hallucination if no such exciting cause is present. Vertigo is more characteristic of internal than middle-ear disease, especially in the acute stages. Fatigahility of the Auditory Nerve.—As in the case of other sensory nerves, stimulation of the auditory nerve is followed after a time by fatigue and insensibility. This passes off after a very short rest, and the hearing power again returns. If a vibrating tuning-fork is held opposite the ear till no longer heard, is then i-emoved for a second, and replaced in its former position, it is, as a rule, again heard for a longer or shorter period. With a long-sounding fork this may be repeated more than once. The fork to be used must be tested on the normal subject, so that it may be noted how often (after the maximum stroke) it is normally lost and reheard, and, if possible, how long each time. In cases of " increased fatigability " of the auditory nerve or centres this occurs more often than normal. Gradenigo has found this fatigability to be most pronounced in disease of the auditory-nerve trunk. He tests it further by observing the degree to which the hearing power is reduced by the sudden exposure to a loud sound. It sometimes happens in the course of the ordinary tests for bone-conduction that a fork reheard on the mastoid after ceasing to be heard at the meatus is also reheard at the meatus after ceasing to be heard on the mastoid. These contradictory results are obviously to be ex- plained by abnormally rapid fatigue of the nerve. Inflation of the tympanum usually increases the deafness in disease of the internal ear. Localisation of the Seat op the Lesion PRODUCING " Nerve-deafness." We are led in this chiefly by the following points :— The part of the range of hearing chiefly affected. The presence or absence of symptoms indicat- ing simultaneous affections of— 1. The equilibrial portion of the labyrinth. 2. Other cranial nerves. 3. Other portions of the central nervous system. The part of the range of audition affected is tested by means of tuning-forks for the lower and middle tones, and by Galton's whistle or Koenig's rods for the highest ones. Loss of hearing for the tones of the highest pitch (lowering of the upper limit of audition) is characteristic of an affection of the labyrinth, and is indeed our chief localising feature. On the other hand, if with the general tuning-fork indications of " nerve-deafness " the hearing for the highest tones is comparatively preserved, but for lower ones diminished or lost, we have to deal more probably with disease of the deeper parts of the auditory tract, either or- ganic or (not uncommonly) functional or | hysterical. The simultaneous occurrence of violent vertigo, along with considerable nerve-deafness, would i indicate that the labyrinth ivas affected in both the cochlear and ampullary sections, more es- pecially if there is at the same time absence of signs of involvement of the cranial nerves or the central nervous system. This is especially > characteristic in hsemorrhage into the labyrinth. Simultaneous affections of other cranial nerves. —These localise the affections as in the follow- ing situations :— (a) Nerve - deafness with facial paralysis (seventh) alone, without chronic aural sup- puration, localises the internal auditory meatus ; with chronic aural suppuration, the bony laby- ■ rinth. j (b) With paralysis of one vocal cord and half of the soft palate, rapid pulse (vago-accessory nerve), disease behind the apex of the petrous bone—often a pachymeningitis, sometimes a new growth. (c) With convergent strabismus of the eye of j the same side (sixth nerve), a lesion on the under surface of the pons, generally meningitic, j involving the auditory nerve and often extend- j ing into, or from, the labyrinth. [ (d) With conjugate deviation of both eyes ' away from the affected side (sixth nerve of j affected side, and internal rectus fibres of i opposite third nerve) we could expect a lesion of the auditory nuclei in the medulla. i Symptoms of disease of other portions of the central nervous system :— (a) Locomotor ataxy indicates tabetic auditory neuritis. j (b) Cerebellar symptoms (reeling, vomiting, headache, optic neuritis, paresis of the arm of the same side, etc.) probably indicate compression of the auditory nerve by a cerebellar tumour. (c) Bulbar symptoms (paresis of tongue and lips), a lesion of the auditory nuclei in the medulla. (d) " Quadrigeminal " symptoms (blindness or ' optic neuritis, incoordination of the movements j of the eyes, unsteadiness of gait, etc.), a lesion j of the auditory tract in the tegmentum—lateral || fillet—as from pressure of a pineal or quadri- j, geminal tumour. f (e) Hemianassthesia and hemianopsia on the same side as the loss of hearing suggest hysteria or a lesion of the posterior part of the internal capsule.