257 APPETITE further the writer uildressed to Dr. Sehlatter of Zurich, wliose remarkable case of complete ex- cision of the stomach (Lancet, 1898, vol. i. p. 141) will be within every one's recollection, an inquiry as to the persistence of " appetite " or " desire for food" in his patient. His reply, dated January 23, 1899, in the original English, is as follows :—" It is with pleasure I give you any information in my power on the subject you wish. I say in my second report on the case (La7icet, November 19, 1898, p. 1315), ' Until a short time ago she asserted that she had quite lost the feeling of hunger through the operation, but, etc' I asked the patient several times if she felt hungry, and received the reply that she never had the same feeling of hunger as before. But it was with some astonishment I noticed that she frequently asked for food, about every three hours. When I inquired of her why she asked for food when she was not hungry she only replied, ' Mankind must eat.' Therefore I cannot say with any certainty that the craving for food had quite left her, but she had the impression that such was the case." This interesting letter leaves the question un- settled, although it gives some support to the opinion that the desire for food, so far as it is a sensation, originates in the stomach itself. Pkuvbrsion op Appetite — Pica. — The con- ditions, which may be described under the head of perverted a])petite, or pica, vary very much in degree, and may be considered to include— (1) dislike of wholesome food; (2) liking for unwholesome food; (3) liking for substances uufit for food, improper, or disgusting. (1) The first of these cotiditions is very com- monly met with in children, whose range of palate is often at first so limited that they will only eat the food with which they are familiar. Dislike of meat is common among them, even of lean meat, although it still more frequently takes the form of aversion to fat. This sort of capricious appetite is by no means unknown among adults, especially among women, who retain throughout life some of the characteristics of childhood. (2) The likin<i for unwholesome food is a per- version of appetite which is not only within normal limits, but is probably met with among tiie majority of mankind. The fondness for jnitrefying flesh, cheese, and some kinds of fruit; for indigestible solid puddings, for greasy cookery, for oily fish, such as salmon, eels, lampreys; for shellfish, sweetstuff, etc., can only be explained by the acceptation of the view that the appetite is easily perverted by the sense of taste, and that the latter is not a safe guide in the choice of food. (3) In the third cateffory, however, we pass without doulit beyond the limits of the normal and enter the domain of pathology. The sub- stances eaten are chalk, plaster, slate-pencil, coal, cinders, hair, paper, wood, filth, fjcces, etc. VOL. I In pregnancy there is often a capricious appe- tite, not seldom an overwhelming desire, for particular food which may or may not be whole- some, and sometimes a disjjosition to nibble at chalk, plaster, etc. In hysteria the same aber- rations occur, but have a wider range, extend- ing to proliably all the substances enumerated, although usually it is only among the tridy in- sane, idiotic, or demented that stercophagy is met with. Apra.Xia,.—Loss of the knowledge of the use of tilings, and loss of power of communica- tion by words or even by signs. AprOSexia..—Loss of power of fixing the attention uf>on any subject, as in chronic nasal obstruction. See Nose, Post-Nasal Adenoid Growths. AprOSOpuS. — A monstrosity in which eyes, nose, and moiith are wanting; sphero- cephaly or triocephaly. See Teratology. ACfUSB.—Waters, thermal, mineral, medi- cinal, etc. See Balneology. Ara.ChiS Oil. — The oil of the Arachis hypoijtta or earth-nut, used for the same pur- poses as olive oil; official in India and the British Colonies. Arachnitis.—Inflammation of the arach- noid membrane. See Meninges of the Cere- brum. Araeorneter.—An instrument for deter- mining the quality of milk. See Milk. Ara.k.—Spirit from cocoa-nut or palm juice. See Alcohol. Ara.roba..—Chrysarobin or Goa powder. See Chrvsaki)1!IN. Arbor Vitse.—The folded or aborescent appearance of the cei-cbellum (on section) and of the mucous membrane of the cervix uteri. See Generation, Fejiale Organs of. ArCUS Senilis.—The crescentic or annu- lar opacity of the cornea, due to deposit of fat or a substance resembling it in the tissue, coming on generally in old age, but sometimes seen in comparatively young people. See Cornea. Ardor Urinae.—A burning or scalding sensation experienced during micturition. See Bladder, Injuries of. Ardor VentriCUli. — Pyrosis; heart- burn. Si t Sii>>L\rn and Duodenum, Diseases of. Areola..—The pigmented circular area sur- rounding tlie nipple of the mammary gland. See Pregnancy, Physiology ; Puerperium, Pathology {Affections of Areola). 17