BLADDER, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF 395 tlie penis, the foreskin in eonsequence Ijeeoniing elongated, and often presenting an inflamed appearance ; irritation of the rectum witli strain- ing at stool, causing prolapse in children, and luemorrhoids in adults; in children a hernia is often produced from the sti'aining efforts in pass- ing water. The most certain evidence of the presence of a stone is 2^roduced hy sounding the hladder, a characteristic ring or click l)eing heard when it is struck with tlie end of a "sound," the metallic instrument used for this purpose. The bladder should contain a small ([uantity of fluid, either urine or some antiseptic lotion, and every part of its interior should be carefully explored, the patient lying on his back, with the buttocks slightly raised. Tlie size of the stone can be estimated by passing a lithotrite and seizing it between the blades of the instrument, for by means of the scale at the other end, the distance Ijetween the blades can be accurately measured. Another method of judging, but only approximately, of the size of the stone is by gently drawing the beak of the sound over its surface without moving it. In children, a calcalus can often be detected by " bimanual palpation," that is, by introducing a finger into the rectum and j^ress- ing with the other hand over the abdomen above tlie pubes, when the bladder is empty ; a good idea of the size of the stone can also be obtained at the same time, especially if the patient is antesthetised. llie nature of tlie stone can often be made out by observing the character of the ring elicited on striking it with a sound ; if clear and metallic, the stone is of hard consistence, either uric acid or oxalate of lime ; if dull, it is of a softer structure, at any rate externally, having a phos- phatic encrustation of some thickness. If the surface is rough and tuberculated, the calculus probably consists of oxalate of lime ; if smooth, either of uric acid or phosphates. The reaction of the urine will also throw some light upon its nature, uric acid and oxalate of lime calculi forming in acid urine, phosphatic in alkaline urine. When two or more calculi are present, it will often be found tiiat upon gently rotating the sound, a stone is struck in different directions ; or upon seizing one stone in the lilades of a Hthotrite and moving it in the bladder, it will lie felt to strike against another. An encysted calculus can he recognised by the fact that it is always felt in the same situation, being immovable on alteration of the position of the patient, and also when touched with a sound or seized with a lithotrite. AVhen lying com- pletely within a saccule, not projecting into the bladder, it is usually impossible to detect it with a soinid, and in many cases it can only be recognised by means of "the cystoscope. Care must be taken not to mistake a roughened bladder-wall, especially when coated with a deposit of ])hosphates, for an encysted calculus. In cases of doubt, tlie cystoscope would solve tlie difficulty. In the case of children, a dull " tiiud" is sometimes produced by the sound striking against the sacrum, or some other part of the bony wall of pelvis, but it is quite different from the ring of a calculus. A small calculus, when difficult to feel witli a sound, can often be detected by washing out the bladder with the evacuator employed in litho- trity. The fluid, as it rushes back from the bladder into the evacuator, carries with it the stone, often dislodging it, if it has been lying hidden between folds of mucous membrane, and a distinct ring or click will be heard when it strikes against the end of the catheter. When the prostate is enlarged and the stone lies in a depresssion or pouch behind, it is very liable to be overlooked unless this part of the bladder is specially explored with the sound. Pressure upon the base of the bladder by the finger in the rectum, and elevation of the pelvis, will often facilitate its recognition under these circumstances. Though the pi'esence of calculi in the bladder has recently been demonstrated with success in the case of children by means of the X-rays, this method of diagnosis has not, as yet, been found of any practical value in adults. Diagnosis.— Vesical calculus has to be dis- tinguished from other affections of the bladder, and also from certain conditions of the kidney, all of which may be accompanied by somewhat similar symptoms, viz. pain and increased frequency in micturition, with presence of lilood in the urine. The conditions of the kidney most likely to be mistaken are renal calculus and pyelitis, espec- ially the tuberculous variety. In renal calculus there is usually a history of attacks of renal colic, and in both aftections some tenderness with increased resistance will probably be ex- perienced on pressure over the I'egion of the kidney ; when the seat of tuberculosis, slight fulness of the kidney can often be detected. The vesical symptoms are not as a rule so prominent; if blood is present in the urine, it is uniformly diffused, communicating to it a characteristic smoky tint, and clots are absent. The affections of the bladder which are liable to be mistaken for stone are chronic cystitis, tuber- culous disease, tumours, and enlargement of the prostate. In all cases of chronic cystitis, when no cause is apjjarent, e.g. urethral stricture, foreign bodies, tumour, prostatic disease, etc., the possibility of a stone lieing present should be borne in mind and the bladder should lie carefully sounded. Without this precaution, it is impossible to exclude calculus as the cause of the cystitis, for if accompanied by ulcera- tion of the mucous membrane, pain and in- I creased frequency in micturition will be