371 BERIBERI knee-jerks, at first exaggerated, disappear in three to six days. The paresis may be slight or it may be complete, and may advance or recede slightly from time to time. According to its degree, the patient will exhibit merely weakness of the limbs, or he may be completely bed-ridden and quite unable to move legs or arms. Similarly the ojdema, which is jaresent at the outset in practically all cases, may amount merely to a local puffiness over the shins or it may rapidly pass to general dropsy, the patient in the latter instance presenting the appearance of one suffering from acute nephritis. Usually the oedema amounts only to considerable facial swelling, distinct a^dema of feet and legs, oedema about the root of the neck and over the sternum, and, almost always, oedema over the sacrum. At the same time various paraisthesije—ting- ling, burning formication — are experienced in the skin over the paretic muscles, more especially over the front of the lei;s and on the dorsa of the feet, the front of the thighs, the finger-tips, and around the mouth. In these localities common sensation is defective, sometimes com- pletely in abeyance. The muscles, particularly those of the calf and some of the nerve-trunks, are found to be exquisitely tender on pressure, and in certain cases the implicated muscles are from time to time attacked with painful cramps. Concurrently with the development of the paresis, and more especially in such cases as show well-marked dropsy, the patient becomes liable to palpitations, attacks of alarming breath- lessness, and of precordial distress—particularly after a full meal, or on exertion. In a proportion of instances physical examina- tion may or may not discover evidences of effusion into the pericardium or pleurae, more rarely into the peritoneum. The heart's impulse is diffuse and the precordial area may be dis- tinctly enlarged, especially towards the right. The action of the heart may be irregular; it is always remarkably quickened by movement or the erect posture. Palpitations, throbbing of the vessels in the neck, and epigastric pulsation may be very marked, whilst tlae pulse at the wrist may remain feeble. Bruits, generally systolic in rhythm, are usual; they come and go, changing, it may be, from hour to hour. The spacing of the intervals is peculiar, the first and second intervals being in many cases practically equal. The first and second sounds are often hard to distinguish, and one or both of them may be reduplicated. Gener- ally there are well-marked signs of dilatation of the right ventricle and tricuspid regurgita- tion. CEdema of the lungs, effusion into pleurse or pericardium, may occur and place life in danger. Or it may be that paresis of the inter- costal muscles, or paresis of the diaphragm, supervenes. Sometimes the dilatation of the heart rapidly increases. In either event ortho- pnoca sets in, and, if the physical condition be not quickly relieved, death maj' take place within a few minutes of the appearance of the urgent symptoms. The course of beriberi is very uncertain, particularly so if the patient be not removed from the endemic centre. If placed in healthy surroundings, provided nerve and muscle de- generation have not proceeded too far, usually, after a few days, improvement begins. In all cases in which the muscular atrophy is con- siderable, many months must necessarily elapse before the patient regains full use of his limbs. In a few instances permanent deformity, such as talipes cquinus, ensues, or some degree of dilatation of the heart may persist. In the dropsical form—often called " wet" beriberi—during the active phase of the disease the urine is genei-ally very scanty, amounting to only a few ounces in the day; though highly coloured and of high specific gravity, it rarely contains albumen. Attacks of dysjsnoea, in which the patient has to sit up in bed and struggle for breath, occur from time to time. During these the extremities may become cold, the lips blue and the face livid; and whilst the heart can be seen to be acting violently, and the vessels of the neck pulsating strongly, the radial pulse is but small and feeble. Death frequently takes place during one of these attacks, the fatal issue manifestly depending on paresis and dilatation of the right heart. Pain under the sterruun of a most distressing character generally accomj^anies the orthopnoea which may supervene without obvious cause, but which is readily provoked by muscular effort, or by the pressure on the heart of the stomach after a full meal. When a " wet" case is about to improve active diuresis sets in; the dropsy may disappear entirely in forty - eight hours, the patient's shrivelling limbs now showing, in many instances, a well-marked muscular atrophj'. In those cases in which paresis is the principal symptom—" dry" beriberi as it is sometimes called — the progress of events is equally un- certain so long as the patient remains in the endemic area. The symptoms may be of the most trifling description, amounting to slight weakness and nuniljness of the legs, or legs and arms, tenderness of the affected muscles, and slight muscular atrophy. On the other hand, the paresis may be complete and the atrophy extreme, involving nearly every vohmtary muscle in the body except those of the eyes, face, mouth, and gullet, which are very rarely attacked. The panniculus adiposus in such cases is also atrophied; so that in extreme instances the patient, reduced to skin and bone, lies helpless in bed unable to move hands or feet, and quite unable to feed himself. He can speak, however, masticate and swallow, urinate and defiBcate, is free from fever, and may, apart from the paresis and muscular tenderness, feel