BRACHI- AND BRACHIO- 460 hrachi- and brachio- mean relating to the arm, and are used in such combinations as hrachialgia (pain in the branches of the brachial plexus), brachiocephalic (belonging to the arm and the head), brachiocyllosis (deformity, often with paralysis, of the arm), brachioiiigraph (an artificial arm or apparatus for writing purposes in cases of de- formity or writer's cramp), and brachiotomy (removal of the arm, occasionally practised in difficult obstetric cases). Bra.Chy-,—As a prefix hrachy- means short; it is used thus in sucli terms as brachychelia (shortness of the lips, especially of the upper), brachydactyly (shortness of the digits), brachy- cheiry (shortness of the hands), and brachy- rhynchus (shortness of the upper maxillae with projection of the lower jaw), as well as in the words specified below. Brachycephaly.—When the cephalic index is above 80, the head is brachycephalic. See Anthropology ; Mental Deficiency {Mon- goloid Cases). Bra,ChynOSiS.—Shortening of a part of the liody or of an organ. Brachypnoea. — A morbid form of breathing, in which the respirations are short and far apart. Brady->—As a prefix brady- means slow, as in bradylalia (slowness of speech), bradypepsia (slowness of digestion), bradysphygmia (slowness of the pulse), and bradysuria (slowness of micturition); the idea of difficulty is usually combined with that of slowness in these com- pounds. Bradycardia.—Slowness of the heart's action, which may be normal (physiological heart-block) or pathological. See Diphtheria {Complications); Gout {Irregular, Circulatory System); Heart, Myocardium and Endocar- dium {Muscle-Failure); Heart, Neuroses of {Bradycardia) ; Pulse {Frequency of). Braemar. S See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Scottish). Braidism. See Hypnotism. Braille System. .S'ee Blindness {Edu- cation). Brain.—This subject will be here con- sidered in the following articles :— 1. Physiology of. 2. Afifections of Blood-Vessels. 3. Tumours of 4. Atrophy, Hypertrophy, Cysts, Inflam- mations. 5. Surgery of. 6. Cerebellum, Affections of. See also Actinomycosis {Brain); Adolescent Insanity' ; Alcoholic Insanity ; Athetosis ; Catalepsy ; Cerebellum, Affections of ; Chorea ; Climacteric Insanity ; Convulsions, Infantile ; Epilepsy ; Epileptic Insanity ; Equilibrium ; General Paraly'sis ; Hydatid Disease {Nervous System); Insanity, Etiology ; Insanity, Pathology of ; Lunacy ; Lymphatic System {Central Nervotis System); Meninges ; Mental Deficiency ; Mind, Education of ; Paralysis ; Paralysis, Insanity associated with ; Paranoia ; Physiology {Nervous System); Pituitary Body ; Post-Mortem Methods {Brain and Spinal Cord); Puerperium, Pathology {Insanities); Senile Insanity ; Syphilis : Trades, Dangerous {Lead) ; Tuberculosis {Brain) ; Unconsciousness ; etc. Brain, Physiologry of. Anatomical ...... 460 Vascular Arrangements— Arteries . . . . . .461 Veins . . . . . .463 Lymphatics . . . . .464 Functions of Cerebral Cortex . . 464 The Cerebellum and its Peduncles . 467 The Cranial Nerves .... 468 The outer surface of each hemisphere is divided into four lobes by three main fissures—those of Sylvius and Rolando and the parieto-occipital fissure. The fissure of Sylvius has two limbs, a short vertical limb, sometimes subdivided into two, and a long horizontal limb, which passes obliquely backwards and somewhat upwards, and at its hinder termination bends upwards for a short distance at an obtuse angle to the main stem so as to be directed towards the great longitudinal fissure. The fissure of Rolando is from two and a half to three inches long. Its upper extremity begins near the great longitudinal fissure, and extends downwards and forwards, forming an angle of 67-5° with that fissure. It does not quite reach the Sylvian fissure. Its course is somewhat sinuous, having a double forward convexity. The parieto-occipital fissure is seen midway lietween the upper end of that of Rolando and the tip of the occipital lobe. It extends for only a very short distance on the outer surface of the hemisphere. The frontal lobe is Itounded by the fissures of Sylvius and Rolando; the parietal lies between the fissures of Sylvius, Rolando, and the down- ward continuation of the parieto-occipital fissure to meet the backward imaginary prolongation of the Sylvian fissure; the occipital lobe lies behind the continuation of the parieto-occipital fissure; the temporal lies below the Sylvian fissure, and is bounded beliind by the occipital lobe. In the frontal lobe there are three horizontal