188 ANGINA PECTORIS gnosis); Gout {Circulatory System); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Etiology); Hysteria ; Malingering ; Nephritis {Cardio- vascular System); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of ; and Visceral Pain. Definition.—A spasmodic attack of pain or oppression in the region of the heart, often radiating down one or both arms, and accom- panied even in its slighter forms by the neces- sity for ceasing exertion, and in its severer forms by a feeling of impending death. Synonyms.—Syncope Anginosa ; Angor Pec- toris ; Suffocative Breast-pang. Symptoms.—The most descriptive name which has been given to angina pectoris is that of "suffocative breast-pang," for the word "pang " indicates the spasmodic and intense nature of the pain which characterises the disease, the word " breast" indicates its position, and the word " suffocative " indicates the peculiar sense of breathlessness by which the pain is accom- panied. A good deal of discussion has taken place regarding the nature of the pain and oppression felt in angina pectoris. It is probable that this is owing in great measure to a confusion between two things easily distinguished by those who feel them, but very hard to describe to others. Almost the only way to understand these feelings is to make a very simple experiment upon oneself. On pressing a pocket-handker- chief over the nose until the desire for breath becomes overpowering, a distinct discomfort in the chest 'and feeling of suffocation is felt, but it is of a different nature from one which can be produced by another experiment. This consists in pressing the thumb or finger backwards and inwards over the carotid, so as to compress it against the cervical vertebrjE. In this way not merely the carotid but the vagus, and prolaably also the sympathetic nerve are compressed and a feeling of suffocation occurs quite as unbear- able as that which is produced by holding the handkerchief before the nose but of a very different character. This feeling is one of intense oppression over the chest which seems to drive the chest in, and at the same time prevents one from drawing a breath, although the air-passages are perfectly open, and there is no reason whatever why one should not take a deep breath. This feeling resembles closely the feeling of oppression caused by very violent exertion, with this difference, that after exertion there is a great desire to draw frequent and deep breaths, while compression of the vagus does not produce this effect. It is, I think, the difference between the two sensations of suffoca- tion from closure of the nostrils and compres- sion of the vagus that has led to a great deal of dispute about the feelings of the patient in angina pectoris. It is to be remembered that angina pectoris, like toothache, is a symptom rather than a disease. Toothache is usually caused by a cavity in a carious tooth, but pain may be felt in the teeth during an oro-nasal catarrli, although the teeth are perfectly sound. In like manner angina pectoris is usually due to atheroma of the coronary arteries of the heart, but pain very much like that of angina may occur from other causes. Just like toothache, angina pectoris varies very much in degree, from a slight pain, which is hardly to be observed, to the most intense agony. In nearly all cases, even when it is slight, it appears to be accompanied by a feeling of oppression. The difference between the pain alone and the pain accompanied by oppression is best understood by considering that even in very slight cases of angina the patient on walking up a hill is almost always obliged to stop. Yet the patient will confess that the pain in the chest has not been so severe as the pain of a twisted ankle or even the pain of a bad corn. And yet in spite of a twisted ankle or a bad corn a man may walk uphill without showing almost any sign of wishing to stop, and there- fore I think that it must be the oppression rather than the pain that makes the man stop and makes him feel that he cannot go on. In more severe cases the pain not only comes on during exertion, but often does so without any apparent cause, and it also becomes much more severe. In commencing cases the pain is slight, its duration is short, and recovery is rapid. After resting for a minute or two the patient feels better and may sometimes be able, with- out much discomfort, to resume the walk. Moreover, if the pain is so slight that he is able to persevere in spite of it, the pain will gener- ally pass off, and the patient will be able to go on walking afterwards without discomfort. But when the pain is severe the patient is obliged to stop still, and sometimes is unable to make any movement whatever. If he is stand- ing when the pain comes on, he will try and lay hold of something, and rest against it bo as to take off any weight upon his chest. If he is lying in bed, the chances are that he will raise himself to a sitting posture, and then lean his hands against his knees so as to support himself in that posture, which is so frequently observed in cases of aneurysm. In such severe cases one generally finds that the face has an anxious, distressed look ; sometimes the look of distress is exceedingly great. The face, as a rule, is pale, sometimes the lips may have a slightly livid tinge, but the paleness is more marked than the lividity. The cheeks look somewhat sunken, and the surface of the skin is very often cold and covered with sweat. The respira- tion is usually hurried and very short. It occurs in little quick gasps, the patient feeling