GLANDS 69 ADRENAL attack, though his symptoms are less marked in the remission than during the preceding paroxysm. Symptoms.—The most important symptoms are referable to the muscular, vascular, gastro- intestinal, and cutaneous systems; it will l)e convenient to consider them seriatim. Asthenia is the most important constitutional feature; it occurs very early in the course of the disease and becomes progressively worse. The patient is always tired and languid, and eventually becomes utterly incapable of muscular exertion. The loss of power is out of all pro- portion to the state of nutrition. Langlois indeed lays stress on the total loss of sustained muscular effort which distinguishes Addison's disease from phthisis and other debilitating diseases, and suggests that when there is doubt as to the diagnosis Mosso's ergograph should be employed. The action of the heart is feeble and the pulse very small, soft, compressible, and sometimes imperceptible. Syncope is likely to take place, and cardiac debility is further shown by palpita- tion, sighing, yawning, and the difficulty of feel- ing the cardiac impulse against the chest or appreciating the pulse at the wrist. Usually the pulse-rate is about the normal, l)ut it may lie slow, in rare instances, to a marked degree. The tension as estimated Ijy the sphygmo- dynamometer is very low. Dysjinoea on exer- tion, probably cardiac in origin, may be a prominent feature. Ancpinia is not a marked sympt(jm ; secondary anaemia occurs, and the blood count is, accord- ing to Osier, usually 50 to 60 per cent of the normal, but more marked anaemia is occasionally seen. Leucocytosis, if present, is independent of the disease. The presence of black pigment granules in the leucocytes has been described, but requires further confirmation. The patients are generally thin, but very rarely become emaciated, the muscles waste, but the subcutaneotis fat remains. In excep- tional instances they may lose flesh rapidly and to a marked degree. The temperature is as a rule subnormal, and the extremities chilly; fever has, however, been known to supervene before death. Cold is l)adly borne by the sub- jects of this disease. The gastro - intestinal sijjnptoms are of two kinds, those due to irritation, such as vomiting and diarrhoea, and those of debility and loss of tone — anorexia and constipation. Vomitimj, nausea, and retchim/ are fre(]uently prominent features and may persist throughout the course of the disease, and be so irrepressible as to lead to death from exhaustion. Flatulence may be troublesome. Diarrhoea is comparatively in- frequent, l)ut it may be so sevei'c as to bring the patient to the verge of death, and is more often seen late in the disease. The appetite is easily impaired, and may later in the course of the illness be succeeded by loathing of food. The bowels are usually confined. Pigmentation is of all the symptoms the most likely to suggest Addison's disease in a case of obscure debility, and nuist therefore be regarded as an objective symptom of great importance. It generally appears some time after the con- stitutional symptoms of asthenia and vomiting, and in cases where the disease runs a rapid course it may never develop; these are cases of Addison's disease without lironzing of the skin, and are therefore less easy to diagnose. Con- versely, though but rarely, the bronzing may- exist for some years before there are any con- stitutional symptoms of the disease. The subject of pigmentation may be con- sidered under two heads—(a) as it affects the skin ; and (b) the nuicous membrane. (a) The cutaneous pigmentation is an ex- aggeration of the normal, the pigment—melanin —is the same as that normally found in the skin, and pathologically in melanotic sarcoma. It is manufactiu'ed by the cells of the stratum Malpighii, and is not like the pigment in malarial melantemia or in cases of pigmentary diabetes directly formed from haemoglobin. Melanin is free from iron and contains sulphur. Though not derived directly from the blood pigment, its production in the skin varies with the vascularity of the miderlying dermis. The material from which the melanin is manufac- tured would appear to be conveyed to the stratum Malpighii by "carrier cells" from the vessels of the dermis. The pigment is situated in the cells of the stratum Malpighii, and little or none can be detected in the superficial layers of the stratum corneum. The cutaneous pig- mentation is distributed much on the same lines as in health, of which it is merely an exaggera- tion. It is found on the exposed parts of the face, neck, and backs of the hands. The palms of the hands and the nails are not affected or the parts of the face covered by hair ; the evolu- tion of the pigment is in some degree dependent on the stimulation of the actinic rays, and the absence or late development of bronzing may, perhaps, thus be explained in certain instances. On the covered parts of the V)ody, the situations where pigment is especially found normally, or where there is friction and irritation, are found to be bi'onzed. Thus the areolae, the backs of the forearms, the anterior folds of the axilla", the genitals, the linea alba, the waist, the knees where garters are worn, the shoulders under braces, and the spines of the vertebrae become pigmented. Around scars the skin becomes darker, jiock marks may thus become accentu- ated, and the skin that has been irritated by the local application of a blister may be per- manently mapped out. The hair also becomes much darker. Small black spots like minute moles may develop, and are often considered of special diagnostic value.