284 ARTIFICIAL LIMBS hand can be adjusted to the stump with movable wrist and finger-joints. The wrist works so stiffly that it will remain fixed at any particular inclination, whilst the thumb is apposed to the Pig. 8, index finger by a spring of sufficient strength to hold such light objects as a pen or a piece of paper. Forearm.—After amputation through the forearm the stump is encased in a leathern sheath (Fig. 7) fitting it accurately, except at the upper end to allow of pronation and supina- tion, and at the lower end where the cut extremities of the radius and ulna are usually too tender to permit of much pressure being- exerted upon them. The sheath is continuous below with an artificial wrist, whilst above it is attached by straps or jointed steel rods to a band of leather or silk which encircles the arm just -above the condyles of the humerus. The hand is removable at the will of the wearer, and can be easily replaced by a spoon, fork, hook, or such tools as may be of the greatest use to the individual. The measurements required are: the circumference above the elbow, at the elbow, and at the end of the stump; the length from the elbow-joint to the end of the stump; the length of the sound limb from the elbow to the wrist; a tracing of the hand with the fingers extended, stating whether the appliance is for the right or the left arm. The price varies from twenty guineas to five pounds. Upper Arm.—Almost the same apparatus is used when the arm has been amputated above the elbow, except that the circle of leather round the arm is elongated into a sheath ex- tending to the shoulder above, and attached below by means of an elbow-joint to the repi'e- sentative of the forearm (Fig. 8). The apparatus is attached to the body of the patient by means of straps, and a very great amount of ingenuity has been displayed to obtain an arm which is capable of some of the various move- ments of the natural limb. The measurements required are : the circumference of the ai'm at the axilla, at the middle and at the end of the stump; the length of the stump from the axilla; the length of the sound limb from the axilla to the elbow, and from the elbow to the wrist; a tracing of the hand with the fingers extended should also be sent, and it should be stated whether the right or the left arm has been amputated. The cost varies from twenty guineas to five pounds. The regulation appliances supplied by the Government to soldiers and sailors consist of the stump arm below the elbow, and the stump arm above the elbow. Neither of these appli- ances have elbow or wrist joints, but there are also Major Little's arms, known as "the improved Government arms," which have axes at these points allowing of limited movement. The Beaufort arm was invented by the Count de Beaufort, who generously presented the original idea to the mechanician by whom it was constructed, on condition that its price should be within the means of the poorest patient. It is one in which, by a simple mechanism, the thumb and fingers remain shut so long as the natural elbow is bent, but on extending the arm and straightening the elbow the thumb expands, so that with a little practice it is quite easy to grasp even a small object. Artificial Respiration. See As- phyxia ; Anesthesia {Chloroform) ; Brain, Surgery of {Compression); HiUMOPTYSis; Shock; Toxicology {Carbon Monoxide). Arytenoid Cartiiagres. ^SeeLarynx, Examination of ; and Larynx, Affections of THE Cartilages. Asafoetida {see also Hysteria ; Prescrib- ing ; Pharmacology).—A gum-resin obtained from the root of an umbelliferous plant {Ferula narthex), having a bitter taste, and containing a volatile oil (containing persulphide of allyl, CgHjQ S, or oil of garlic) with a strong alliaceous odour {see Allyl). The dose of the gum-resin is 5 to 15 grains. Its preparations are: Tinctura Asafoetidce (dose, ^ to 2 fl. dr.); Pilula Aloes et Asafcetida (dose, 4 to 8 grains) ; Spiritus Ammonice Foetidus (dose, i to 1 fi. dr.); in the United States there is an official Emplastrum and a Mistura. Asafcetida is specially useful in hysteria and in malingering, where its nasty taste and smell aid its action ; it is also given in cough mixtures, and as an enema in flatulent distension of the bowels. Asaproi.—A /?-naphthol compound, which has been recommended in infectious diseases and in rheumatism. Ascarides. See Parasites {Ascaridre) ; Anthelmintics ; Gall - Bladder and Bile