BONE, DISEASES OF 443 age of ten and after sixty, during which periods of Hfe the male and female are equally exposed, there is less predominance of the male sex than between the ages of ten and sixty, during which the male is more exposed to injury (Cheyne). The influence of heredity, preceding debili- tating disease (measles, whooping-cough, pneu- monia), climate, favdty hygiene, overcrowding, and poverty, is in bone similar to their influence in other tissues, and need not be further referred to in this place. Only a resiime of the indi- vidual lesions will be given, as they will be con- sidered in detail under the different regions {q.v.)^ I. — Tuberculous Disease in the Periosteum —Tuberculous Periostitis Bones specially affected. In superficial bones, e.g. rib, ulna. Clinical features, diagnosis and treatment, hi deeply seated^ bones, e.g. femvr, vertebrce. II. —Tuberculous Disease in the Interior of Bones—Tuberculous Osteomyelitis General characters and clinical relationships. Tuberculous dactylitis. Osteomyelitis in other bones, e.g. fmiur, tarsus. I. Periosteal Tuberculosis — Tuberculous Periostitis.—This is less common as a primary disease than as an affection secondary to lesions in the interior of bones. It is typically met with in the ribs, verteljrse, cranium, bones of the face, stermun, and in the long bones of the limbs. Clinically the development of tuberculous granulation tissue in the deeper layer of the periosteum, and its subsequent caseation and liquefaction, is attended by the insidious develop- ment of a doughy swelling which is usually painless although distinctly tender on pressure. It is often discovered by the patient accidentally and its date of origin mis-stated. As the swell- ing increases in size it tends to become boggy, to fluctuate, and to assume the characters of a cold abscess; the latter usually perforates the fibrous layer of the periosteum and invades and infects the overlying soft parts; its spread in the soft parts is influenced by gravity, and by the anatomical arrangement of the tissues. The size of the abscess is no indication of the extent of the lesion from which it originates. Finally the cold abscess reaches the deep surface of the skin ; the latter becomes dusky red or livid, it becomes thinned, and finally gives way. The contents of the cold al)scess then escaj^e through an aperture in the skin which is called the sinus. If a probe is passed down the sinus it strikes the friable worm-eaten bone, which, from its under- going disintegration, is commonly described as being in a condition of caries. The sinus tends to persist so long as any active tubercle remains in the tissues from which the cold abscess took its origin. If left to itself it readily allows of the entrance of infection from without, and this favours the persistence and extension of the tubercle both in the bone and in the overlying soft parts. The orifice of the sinus is occupied ])y pouting, flabby granulations; the edges of the orifice and the skin may be undermined, or they may be actually infected with tubercle which may spread to the skin in the immediate vicinity like lupus. There is little new forma- tion of bone on the periosteal surface in the vicinity of the lesion compared with that ob- served in staphylococcus lesions and in syphilis. A cold abscess may form between the ribs and the pleura. The features of tuberculous periostitis in other superficial bones, e.g. tibia, ulna, sternum, skull, are very similar to those observed in the ribs. Now and then one may find small super- ficial sequestra of the surface compact bone embedded and surrounded by the tuberculous gramdation tissue. Diagnosis of Periosteal Tubercle in Superficial Bones.—Before the formation of the cold abscess, the localised thickening which develops over the bone is to be differentiated from syphilis, from chronic forms of staphylococcus osteomyelitis, and from such rare conditions as lipoma or ganglion, and from periosteal sarcoma. From the last mentioned the diagnosis may be especially diffi- cult ; apart from diflPerences in the history, in the predisposition, and in the constitution of the patient, sarcoma is characterised by its more rapid and continuous progress, lay the severity and persistence of pain in spite of rest, by the more tumour-like character of the swelling, by the absence of suppuration, and of any benefit from treatment. A rise of temperature in the evening is more likely to be present in cases of rapidly-growing sarcoma than in tul)ercle, unless the latter is complicated with pyogenic infection. In difficult cases recourse may be had to the X-rays or to exploratory incision, and, if neces- sary, histological and bacteriological examina- tion of the diseased tissue. When met with in the stage at which the cold abscess has burst and left a sinus, the diagnosis is to be made from staphylococcus osteomyelitis which has been recovered from and which has left a sinus; the history of the illness, the seat of the lesion, the appearances of the external opening of the sinus, and the con- ditions found on probing the latter, are to be carefully taken into account. The diagnosis, however, may only be cleared up by an examina- tion of the diseased tissues after their removal. Tlie Treatment of Tuberculous Perio.^titis.— Apart froni that of tubercle in general, it is to be conducted on the usual principles. In the superficial and therefore accessible bones to which, so far, we have been confining our atten- tion, it will usually assume the form of direct surgical interference with the diseased tissues. Where what is called an operation is objected