ANAESTHETICS—NITROUS OXIDE GAS 158 in a chamber in front of the bag in a proportion controlled by a movable index. The patient is made to respire nitrous oxide gas with a small quantity of oxygen, the amoiint being increased as the anaesthesia progresses. Excess of oxygen produces excitement, deficiency cyanosis. A slightly prolonged anaesthesia is obtained in this way, and complete avoidance of muscular jacti- tation, so that the actual period of operation is longer. Patients are a trifle more dazed, and in some cases complain of nausea, after the use of oxygen. The consideration whether diseased conditions in patients contra-indicate the use of nitrous oxide gas is of less importance than in the case Gas and Ether apparatus with its parts separated. of other anaesthetics, as the risks of this anaes- thetic when properly given may be said to be nil. Practically any one can take gas, but where obstructive lung disease is present, or when there is pre-existing cyanosis or dyspnoea, it is better to employ oxygen and nitrous oxide combined. Muscular and alcoholic subjects are not always satisfactory patients when oxygen is used ; anaemic people and women and children, on the other hand, are remarkably good subjects. It is a common error to suppose that pregnant women cannot take gas with impunity. Cer- tainly up to six months of pregnancy no risk exists. After that it may be questioned whether or not it is wise to permit of any surgical pro- ceeding, but if such must be adopted there is far less risk in using nitrous oxide gas, or other anaesthetic, than would arise if the pain of the operation were allowed to be felt. Nitrous Oxide before Ether.—The patient is put under gas until the breathing becomes regular and deep, usually after ten or twelve respirations, then the ether is turned on and gradually more and more ether given until full etherisation exists. The cyanosis which com- monly shows itself at this stage is at once re- moved by lifting the inhaler from the patient's face and allowing him one or two inspirations of air. The woodcut represents the apparatus which is commonly employed by the writer. It is depicted with its component parts separated as they should be after use and when about to be cleansed before being again used. The apparatus can be thus rendered absolutely aseptic. It consists of two horizontal fifty-gallon cylinders of nitrous oxide gas, although one cylinder or even a smaller (twenty-five gallon) cylinder can be used, and the ether inhaler coiniected to the gas supply by a length of india-rubber tubing. The ether inhaler is composed of the metal chamber into which the tubular valve is pushed down, when in use, a central tube running through the india-rubber bag and connected at one end with the ether chamber and at the other with the metal mount which carries the face-piece. This central tube conveys the ether vapour and ensures adequate strength of vapour. The Catling's bag holds the gas or air, as the case may be, and permits of free inspiration. When the patient is once fully under the influence of the ether, the gas tube is disconnected and the tap left open, thus permitting air to enter. This prevents cyanosis and ensures comfort in breathing. Prolongatio7i of Nitrous Oxide Anoesihesia. —This may be done by using ether, as above, or by giving the gas intermittently, or when the mouth cannot be covered by forcing gas up through a bent tube which is held in the mouth (Coxon). A nose-cap (Coleman) allows the patient to go on inhaling the gas after the mouth-piece is removed; or the same end is effected by introducing a soft catheter through the nostril and causing gas to pass through it into the air-passages. Complications of Nitrous Oxide Gas in Anaes- thesia.—Syncopal attacks are extremely rare, although in feeble subjects they may recur, especially if the tongue is allowed to fall back. The horizontal posture and dragging forward the tongue soon restore animation. Interference with respiration from entrance of foreign bodies or falling back of the tongue is a more frequent complication. It is important that all clothing lie loosened and that the stomach is not distended with semi- digested food at the time of the administration. The position of the patient, more especially as regards his head and neck, should be so adjusted that no impediment is imposed to respiration. To ensure this in the sitting posture the body should be slightly extended on the pelvis, the head slightly extended on the trunk and main- tained in the middle line. Under no circum- stances should loose bodies, e.g. teeth, be left