121 AMBYLOPIA prove the vision of a congenitally amblyopic and squinting eye by temporary occlusion of the other. The results of such attempts are always, however, limited to the obtaining of a temporary recovery from the habit of sup- pression. But this is soon lost again, and consequently ceases to be of any service as soon as the better eye is allowed to resume fixation. Though often referred to, there is really no such thing as amblyopia from disuse, in the proper acceptation of the term. The sight of an eye which has once been possessed of good visual acuity is never lost by disuse. It is a common experience, for instance, to operate for cataract, or for some condition caused by accident, on an eye which has consequently been useless for years—thirty or forty years or more, it may be—and yet to find that the acuity is at once regained when the optical requirements have been satisfied. Disuse, however, in the sense of a ver^/ early or congenital interference with the proper de- velopment of vision, may result in amblyopia. Amblyopia from this cause is most often bi- lateral, and very often associated with nystag- mus. It is important to remember that in order that the central vision should be sharp the optical conditions must be favourable, and the visual centres and their connections with the eye be in a normal state in the first years of life. If this should not be the case, some permanent amblyopia must result, even when the adverse conditions have been removed later on. AmblyOSCOpe.—A form of stereoscope. See Strabismus. Amboceptor. — An immune body or fixer, a body siq)posed to connect a bacterial cell with the complement. Ambulance. See First Aid. Ambulant.—Able to walk about: ap- plied (1) to patients suffering from mild or latent typhoid, or some other disease which does not compel rest in bed ; (2) sometimes to pregnant women, awaiting confinement, in a Maternity Hospital; and (3) to diseases which change their position, e.g. erysipelas. Ambulatory Automatism. See Hysteria ; Malingering. Amelia or Amely. — Absence (con- genital) of one or more of the four extremities ; ectronielus. See Teratology. Amelie-les-Bains. See Balneology {Frmic). Amenorrhoea. See Menstruation and ITS Disorders ; Chlorosis ; Diabetes Mellitus (Sexual Functions); Lung, Tuberculosis of ; Morphinomania ; Pregnancy, Diagnosis ; and Uterus, Inflammations of (Superinvolutio7i). America. See Balneology ; Thera- peutics, Health Eesorts. Ametropia.—Defects of vision due to errors of refraction. Amianthinopsy.—A form of colour blindness characterised by inability to distin- guish the violet-rays. Amides.—Compounds derived from am- monia by the substitution of an acid radicle for one or more atoms of hydrogen. Amidogen is the hypothetical univalent radicle, NH2, sup- posed to be the essential constituent of an amide. Amines.—Compounds derived from am- monia by the suljstitution of a basic radicle or radicles for one, two, or three atoms of hydrogen. Amino-OXypurin. — Guanin. See Liver, Physiology of. Amino-purin. — Adenin. See Liver, Physiology of. AmitOSiS.—Cell division without karyo- kinesis; direct cell division. See Physiology {The Cell). Ammonia {see also Am, Examination OF ; Ammonium ; Liver, Physiology of ; CEso- PHAGUS, Inflammation of ; Toxicology {The Alkalies); and LTrine, Pathological Changes in).—A colourless gas (NH.J, having a pungent odour, and a strongly alkaline reaction. It is easily dissolved in water, and the name ammonia is usually given to the aqueous solution. There are two official solutions, the Liquor Ammonise Fortis, containing 32-5 per cent of the gas, and the Liquor Ammonise, with only 10 per cent. The strong solution is used for making the weaker one, and it also enters into the prepara- tion of the Linimentum CamphorfE Ammonia- tum, the Linimentum Hydrargyri, the Spiritus AmmonifB Aromaticus, the Spiritus AmmoniEe Fetidus, and the Tinctura Guaiaci Ammoniata. The liquor ammoniac is given internally in doses of 10 to 20 m. diluted with water; its preparations are the linimentum ammonife (an oleate of ammonium), and the ammoniated tinc- tures of ergot, opium, quinine, and valerian. Applied externally liquor ammonias causes rube- faction ; its vapour has a markedly irritating effect on the nose and eyes and air passages; liquor ammonice, taken internally before meals, acts as a stomachic, increasing the gastric juice, and it reflexly stimulates the pulse and respira- tion. The linimentum ammonise and the lini- mentum camphora) ammoniatum are employed externally as counter - irritants in bronchitis, chronic joint affections, fete.; in syncope, the