463 the nio«t important of tlio cerebral arteries, liaviiig regard to the areas of the cortex which it suppHes and the frequency with which, more especially on the left side, it is affected liy disease. Its five cortical branches are distributed to—(1) the third frontal convolution; (2) to the lower two-thirds of the ascending frontal, and the hinder end of the second frontal; (3) to the ascending parietal, sujaerior parietal, and snpra-marginal convolutions ; (4) to the angidar gyrus, the supra-marginal, and the posterior end of the first and second temjaoral convolutions ; (5) to the anterior part of the first temporal and the anterior two-thirds of the second temporal convolutions. The central branches, which leave the main stem near its origin, enter the anterior perforated space and constitute the main supply of the basal ganglia. They pass upwards at first through or external to the lenticular nucleus, and are then directed inwards through the internal capsule either to the caudate nucleus or to the optic thalamus, being termed respect- ively lenticulo-striate and leiiticulo-optic arteries. One of the former group which ramifies at first on the outer surface of the lenticular nucleus is so frequently ruptured that it has been termed by Charcot the artery of t-erehral haemorrhage. The posterior cerebral supplies the remainder of ^ the cortex, namely, the inner aspect of the occipital and temporal lobes (including the cuneus, the lingual, fusiform, and inicinate gyri), the outer occipital and the inferior temporal convolutions. Its central branches supply the posterior part of tiie optic thalamus, the crus, the nucleus of the third nerve, and the external geniculate body. The medulla, pons, and cerebellum derive their supply from the basilar and the two vertel)ral arteries. Those to the medulla and pons are divided into medial and lateral or radicular branches. Tlie medial arteries are the chief supply of the nuclei {bvlhar to the hypoglossal and spinal accessory; suhpontine, from the basilar, for the vagus, glossopharyngeal and auditory niiclei; midpontine and mpra- p)ontine, for the nuclei of the remaining cranial nerves below the third). The lateral branches, as their other name implies, supply the nerve- roots. They divide into ascending and descend- ing branches — the former passing with the nerve-roots into the medulla and supplying the nuclei of the nerves they accompany, the latter passing outwards with the nerve. The cerebellar arteries are the superior, middle, and inferior. The first named are derived from the basilar, and supply the middle lobe, and the upper part of the hemispheres of the cerebelhmi. One branch to the nucleus dentatus (arteria corporis dentati of Duret) merits special mention as being the most frequent source of cerebellar haemorrhage. The middle and inferior cerebellar arteries are derived from the vertebrals, and between them supply the remainder of the cerebellum. Venous Circulatiox.—The veuovs blood is collected from the cerebrum mainly by two channels, the superior longitudinal and the straight sinuses. The former, which runs from before backwards along the upper margin of the falx cerebri, drains the greater portion of the outer and inner surface of the hemispheres. The cortical veins, some ten or twelve in nmnl )er, enter the sinus in an anterior direction — an arrangement supposed to be designed for the too vapid removal of venous lilood from the cerebrum, but more probalily merely the residt of the growth of the cerebnnn in a forward direction. The straight sinus is formed by the miion of the inferior longitudinal veins and the vein (or veins) of Galen. The former runs in the inferior margin of the falx, from which, as well as, to some extent, from the inner surface of the hemispheres, it derives its blood. The veins of Galen which lie near each other between the layers of the velum interpositum are formed by the imion of veins from the caudate nucleus and optic thalamus, and also from the choroid plexus in the lateral and third ventricles. As the veins of Galen pass over the pineal gland they are apt to be compressed by tumours of that structure, thus giving rise to dropsy of the cerebral ventricles (secondary hydrocephalus). The straight and superior longitudinal sinuses unite at the torcular Heropliili (opposite the internal occipital crest) to form the lateral sinus. This occupies the welli-known groove in the occipital ):)one and the postero-inferior angle of the parietal bone, lying in this part of its course in the attached margin of the tentorium cere- lielli. Then it grooves the mastoid part of the temporal hone and enters the jugular foramen. One lateral sinus is usually larger than its fellow. The relations of the sinus to the temporal bone are of the Titmost importance to the surgeon (see Brain, Surgery of, Operative Measures). The cavernous sinus at the side of the Itody of the sphenoid l)one receives the oj^hthalmic vein, connnunicates with its fellow by the circidar sinus round the pituitary body, and delivers its blood to the lateral sinuses through the sujierior and inferior petrosal sinuses. The former of these passes along the groove in the upj^er margin of the petrous bone and in the attached margin of the tentoriiun cerebelli, and enters the lateral sinus in the groove in the mastoid- temporal bone. It receives some branches from the ujjper surface of the cerel>ellum, the inferioi- surface of the cerebrum, and from the tympanum. The inferior petrosal joins the jugular vein at the jugular foramen, passing to this point along the junction of the basi-occipital and petrous temporal bones. It receives blood from the under surface of the cerebellum and from the internal ear. The occipital sinus, sometimes