BALNEOLOGY 349 tion) .should bear an inverse proportion to the heat or febrile excitement in the patient. Assolini used vapoiir baths below blood-heat in inflaiuniatory att'ections of the throat and re- spiratory passages. Li suljacute catarrhs and chronic aiTections a more stimulating vapour can be employed, such as those of Plombieres or Mont Dore. Natural vapour may be locally applied by various apparatus {e.g. the " Ber- thollet baths "). Some of the most remarkable natiu'al vapour baths are met with in the island i)f Ischia, such as that of San Lorenzo (124° ¥.) and Castiglione (133° F.). The Bagni di Nerone, near Pozzuoli, yield a vapour at 167° F., which was led by the Romans into large chambers. The neighbouring solfatara emits a sulphurous vapour. Lucca, Monsummano, and Battaglia in Italy, and Cransac in France, also possess natural vapour baths. Among European spas, at which the vapoin- of thermal waters is employed in the same manner, may be mentioned Aix-la-Chapellc, Plombieres, Baden, Luchon, and Bath in England. •5. Hot-Air Baths ("Turkish bath," Etuve sec, local hot-air bath).—The toleration of the body for the extreme temperatures (170° to 200°, or even 240° F.) of the hot-air bath depends upon the fact that the latter interferes in no way with the heat-regulating function of the skin. Whilst the vapour bath checks evapora- tion, and soon raises the heat of the body, the hot-air bath favours evajjoration, and may be continued for an indefinite period without sensible elevation of the internal temperature. The superficial temijerature is, however, raised and the cutaneous circulation greatly increased. The limbs are also inci'eased in volume by the blood drawn from the deep parts, and the general blood - pressure falls. The excess of blood drawn through the peripheral vessels supplies a flow of perspiration which may amount to two pounds in weight during the course of a single bath. The centrifugal flow of fluids is favoured by the circiunstance that in a hot-air bath the external pressure on the bodj' is less than that of a normal atmosphere, which is the reverse condition to that which obtains in ordinary baths. The skin is macer- ated and cleansed by the removal of epidermic accunndations and gland contents. The subse- ijuent application of massage and cold affusion cause contraction of the blood-vessels and rise of blood - pressure. In addition to their time- iionoured hygienic value, hot - air baths enjoy a wide therapeutic application. From their powerful effect on the peripheral cii'culation they are prescribed for persons of a sluggish, dr}^ or cold skin, especially for those who com- plain of want of animal heat and who frequently "take cold." Such patients are very generally unable to take cold aff'usions, unless the skin has been previously heated and vascularised by hot air or other non-debilitating thermal appli- cation. These baths relieve some cases of embarrassed venous circulation, especially splanchnic congestions or obstructions with irregular distribution of the blood ; also chronic renal affections and gouty and rheumatic dis- orders, by reason of their eliminative action. Tlie loml application of very hot air is often a valuable auxiliary to ordinary bath treatment. By applying suitaljle apparatus to the part, or including it in a hot chamber, temperatures of 200° to 300° F. or more can be readily brought to bear locally on the affected limb or region. A very powerful thermal action is thus produced with the object of modifying the circulation and the nutrition in a limited area. Such applica- tions, limited to a single limb, commonly raise the body temperature from 1° to 3°. Experi- ment has shown that whilst the general body temperature of a dog was I'aised 1'8°, that of the venous blood retui-ning from the limb rose 4-8 in half an hour (W. Bain). Local super- heated air baths are of various kinds, and are prescribed in order to stimulate the process of repair in degenerate tissues, the absorption of swellings and exudations, and the removal of stiffness and contractions. 6. MUKIATED (BhINe) AND MaRINH BaTIIS. It is believed that in muriated baths some salt passes through the epidermis and affects the nerve endings. The stimulant action of these baths is found to be proportional to the strength of the brine. The deposit of saline particles on and in the tissues occasionally causes eczema or urticaria in persons of a sensitive skin. (rt.) Brine baths (Droitwich).—Nearly satu- rated brines like that of Droitwich may contain as much as 30 per cent of salt. They are em- ployed as a stinudating balneary treatment in " muscular rheumatism " and sciatica, in chronic articular affections, and as a tonic in con- valescence. Kreuznach in Germany, Salins in France, Ischl in Austria, and Bex and Rhein- felden in Switzerland, possess baths of this class. (6) Marine baths (j\Iargate).—Different seas vary in the proportion of salt. The Atlantic water contains about 3 per cent, besides free gases. The tonic effects of open sea- or surf- bathing depend partly on the fresh open air, marine climate, and the movement of the waves. Sea baths increase the resistance of the skin to changes of temperature and to damp, and there- fore tend to prevent catarrhal and rheumatic affections. They are beneficial in many atonic con- ditions, whether dyspeptic or nervous, in anajmia and chlorosis, asthma, chronic catarrh, and scrofulous and rachitic afi"ections. They are contra-indicated in eczema, erysipelas, phthisis, nervous erythism, and " bilious" or hejDatic dyspepsia. Sea-water may sometimes be em- ployed with advantage in the form of douches, as at Sidmouth. Sea-iveed haths of a semi-liquid consistence prepared from the crushed bladder-