213 ANTHRAX chiefly observed in the pig and in the dog, but are not of common ocenri'ence. CEdema of tlie tissues about the rectum is a special feature in some cases (luuiliar anthrax). Morbid Anatomy.—The lesions observed are very similar to those already described in con- nection with the human subject. Some of the lesions are more marked in some animals than they are in man. The enlargement and difflu- ence of the spleen are very characteristic lesions in cattle and sheep. Renal haemorrhages, giving rise to the htematuria which is so characteristic in the sheep, are much less frequent in other animals. IV. Geographical Disthibution of Anthrax This disease occurs in all parts of the world, and is a cause of great mortality among suscep- tible animals. No climate is free from it; anthrax has been observed in Lapland and Finland as well as in India. Owing, however, to the rapid growth of the bacillus, and forma- tion of spores under the influence of warmth, the disease is much more liable to spread and perpetuate itself in warm than in cold climates. Anthrax is specially prevalent in certain dis- tricts of France, Germany, Austria, Russia, Siberia, Turkey, Asia Minor, Persia, India, China, Africa, North and South America, and Australia. V. The Anthrax Bacillus Morphology.—In the untreated blood of an animal which is dying or has recently died of anthrax, the bacilli appear as short, transpar- ent, motionless rods lying between the blood corpuscles ; they are usually very numerous. Their diameter is usiially T2 //.. Some authors have given measurements varying between 1 /x and 1-.5 /x. Their length is more variable, but is usually from 5 to 6 /x (according to some they may reach a length of 20 /x, l)ut these long filaments are probably always com- posed of several bacilli). Short chains composed of two or three segments may occur in the blood. The bacillus can be readily stained with most of the basic anilin dyes ; it stains specially well with gentian violet, Loeffler's methylene blue, thionin blue, carbol fuchsin, and by Gram's method. Its large size and the ease with which it is stained render the detection of the l)acillus anthracis easy. Anthrax liacilli are generally quite straight: they have a thin capsule usually invisible. Wlien they are in chains the ends of adjacent bacilli are separated by a clear substance which unites them, and is apparently continuous with the capsule : the ends of the bacilli are scpiare, after special staining they may appear to be slightly concave. If some infected blood be kept in a warm moist place, these rods are seen to elongate in the course of a few hours, and ultimately to form long filaments in which spores appear more or less rapidly. The growth of the bacillus is best studied by cultivating it in aqueous humour, blood serum, peptone bouillon (fluid, or solidified by the addition of gelatine or gelose (agar) according to the methods recommended by Koch). When a drop of aqueous humour or peptone bouillon is inoculated with a minute quantity of fresh blood containing a few bacilli, and this prepara- tion is kept in a moist chamber at a temperature of 36° C, the bacilli are seen to grow rapidly— their length at the end of two or three hours has usually doubled. As the rods elongate, they undergo a process of fission, and as the various segments remain connected together, threads are produced which, as they further grow, form loops presenting a characteristic wavy appearance, which has been compared to that of wavy locks of hairs. To bring out clearly the segmentation of these filaments it is necessary to stain them. At the end of twenty- four hours, if there have been free access of air, a constant tempei'ature of 35° or 36° C., and a sufficient amount of moisture, bright oval bodies appear at intervals in the filaments. These are young spores. When the spores are fully de- veloped, the filaments become gradually less distinct and ultimately disappear, leaving the spores free. Spores appear as highly refracting oval bodies with an envelope. They are more diflacult to stain than the bacilli. If some of these spores be placed in some fresh nutrient fluid under the conditions previously indicated, their capsule swells, the central protoplasmic mass elongates in its long axis, grows into a bacillus, which, when it exceeds the length of a normal bacillus, begins to divide by fission : long filaments and spores are produced again within twenty-four hours. (For a fuller de- scription of the appearances presented by the bacillus cultivated in various media, and other practical details, the reader must be referred to text-books of Bacteriology.) Influence of Temperature on the (jrovtli and development of the Bacillus Anthracis. — The phenomena of growth and sporulation occur in the way above described only at a temperature of 35° to 36° C, which is the " optimum" temperature. Below 12' C. and above 45° C. the growth of the bacillus is arrested. Below 18' ^ and above 42 to 43° C. spores do not form. They are ])roduced most rapidly at from 32° to 35° C., when there is free access of oxygen. Bacilli grown in media freely exposed to air, at a temperature of 42-5° to 43°, do not produce spoi'es ; they form as usual filaments, but ultimately die within twenty-eight or thirty days. After eight days' cultivation at this temperature, the asporogenous bacillus has lost much of its virulence. (By passage through ' Spores may begin to form very slowly at a temperature slightly above 15° C.