358 BALNEOLOGY (Puteoli), on the Bay of Naples, there are ther- mal, alkaline, and weakly mnriated waters that have been used for baths since Roman times. The famous solfatara, an ancient crater, was formerly used for vapour baths. In the crevices of the hills are numerous fumeroles giving forth sulph\H-etted hydrogen. Vapour baths, stufe, are given at 95° and 113° F. The neighbouring thermal spring at Bagnoli is somewhat similar, and furnishes vapour for the Bagni di Nerone. Casamicciola (Ischia) has also a thermal spring of this class. The waters of Castellamari di Stabia (Bay of Naples) are cold, and include alkaline, muriated, and ferruginous sources. Sulphur Waters.—Acqui (near Alessandria), 4^0, one of the chief Italian spas, has a hot muriated sulphur water (102° to 158° F.). Thermal and mineral mud liaths are used. Other hot sulphur springs are Vinadfo (Pied- mont), PoRETTA (Bologna), 1100, and Vitbrbo, AcQUE Albule and Civitta Vecchia in the pro- vince of Rome; also Acireale and Sciacca in Sicily. Calcareous Waters. — Lucca, 390, is an ancient and famous bath, supplied by thermal, earthy, and muriated waters at 98° to 129° F. Chianciano in central Italy is also a thermal calcareous water. Greece Greece is well supplied with thermal and other mineral waters. Though much resorted to in ancient times, they are now almost entirely neglected. Among the more important sulphur- ous thermal springs may be named Hellopia in Epirus, Adepsos (I. of Eubea), those of the island of Lesbos, and at ThermopyL/E. Lbpanto and Katharsion (ill Lesbos) are saline sulphur waters. The islands of the ^Egean Sea furnish many powerful waters, for example the thermal waters of Ikaria and Kythmos. There are bitter waters at Epidaurus. Spain and Portugal FiTERO (province of Navarra) and Caldas-de- Gerez (Portugal), a feebly sulphurous thermal water at 115° F., are practically indifferent thermal waters. There are several hot muriated waters in Spain, the most important being that of Caldas-db-Montbuy (Barcelona). Vidago (N. Portugal) has a strongly alkaline water. RuBiNAT, on the French frontier, yields the bitter sulphated waters called " Rubinat" and " Con- dal." Among sulphur springs that of Panti- COSA in the Pyrenees, 5600, is a thermal water resembling some of those on the French side of the mountains, and containing two parts of sul- phide of sodium in 100,000. At such an alti- tude, almost the highest of European spas, bath treatment is greatly modified by climate. Car- RATRACA (near Malaga), Montb.mayor y Bbjar and Ledesma, 2600 (both near Salamanca), and Caldas da Rainha (Portugal), are among many other sulphur sj^rings. Urberoago de Alzola (near Plasenzia) has warm calcareous and chaly- beate springs. Norway, Sweden, and Iceland Sandbfjord and Laurvig (near Christiania) possess both sulphurous and chalybeate springs, and employ baths and frictions with sulphurous mud. Mud baths are also much used at ModUiM, where there is also an effervescing chalybeate water (St. Olafs). Among the numerous chaly- beate waters of Sweden may be mentioned Medewi, Danbverd (near Upsala), and Gustafs- BERG (near Uddevalla). At the two last mud baths are commonly used, also at Wahlbbrga (near the Lake of Wenver), and at Loka (on Lake Lersjo). In Iceland, Barestrand Syssell has indifferent waters at 218° F., but Ran- damel, with ferruginous waters, is more fre- quented. Russia Among the better-known Russian spas are Kc3tschenowa (near Moscow), an effervescing chalybeate water ; Stolypin (on the Kuschum), a saline sulphur water; in Poland, Ciechocinck, with strongly muriated springs, and Busk (near Cracow), with muriated sulphur waters and peat baths; on the Baltic, Oesel (in Livonia), with sea and minertd nuid baths, and Kemmern (near Riga), with cold sulphur waters and peat and sea baths. There is in the Caucasus, at Pjati- GORSK and its neighbourhood, an important group of thermal waters, some sulphurous and others ferruginous or alkaline. One of these, ScHBLNESA-WoDSK, ISOO, is an alkaline ferru- ginous spa and much frequented. Among other Caucasian springs, Borgum has strong sulphur- ous alkaline waters. Bituminous and brine mud baths are given at Astrakhan on the Caspian Sea, and sea mud baths are much made use of at Odessa and on the Black Sea coast. ^ Turkey, Bulgaria, etc. There are some very complete thermal baths in Turkey. Brussa (Asia Minor), with many thermal springs, is said to have one of the finest balneary establishments in the world. Among many others, there are thermal muriated and ferruginous waters at Ahiolo (near Con- stantinople), and thermal sulphur waters at KiRKiLissA (Bulgaria), at Smyrna, at Callir- RHOE (Palestine), and at Salonichi (Macedonia), where mud baths are also used. Other thermal waters are found at Feredschik (Roumelia); LiD.JA (Anatolia), and Gadara (Palestine), where sulphurous and mud baths at high temijeratures are used by the Arabs. Africa Helouan-les-Bains, on the desert near Cairo, ' For many of the particulars with refereuce to the European .spas, the autlior desires to express his indebted- ness to the admirable work on the Miiieral Waters and Health Resorts of Europe, by Sir Hermann and Dr. Parkes Weber, and to Bi-ad.shaw's Dictionary of Mineral Waters.