397 BLADDER, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF ounces of fluid, then lithotomy often gives lietter results, for the free after-drainage, which can be maintained so long as the lithotomy wound remains open, always has a beneficial effect ujjou the inflauied condition of the bladder-wall. 5. In cases where calculus is complicated by renal disease, it is a question, whether, other conditions being favourable, lithdtrity or litho- tomy should be performed. Though under these circumstances both operations are attended by a somewhat high rate of mortality, the general opinion appears to Ije that lithotrity involves less risk to life. Perineal Lithotrity.—The old operation of perineal lithotrity has recently been revived and advocated by Reginald Harrison, in eases where a stone of large size is complicated with a pouched bladder or enlargement of the prostate gland. As the term implies, the l)ladder is entei'ed through a perineal incision made into the membranous portion of the urethra. The prostate and neck of the bladder are dilated instead of being incised, and the calculus having been crushed by a special lithotrite of great strength, introduced through the perineal wound, the fragments are then removed by the same route. Lithotrity in Male Children. — Until a few years ago, it was believed that lithotrity was not a safe or an easy operation in male children on account of the small size of the bladder and uix'thra in young subjects, which rendered it difficidt to introduce and manipidate instru- ments of sufficient strength to crush a stone. The delicate but powerful lithotrites, which are specially made for children, have overcome this difficulty, and calculi of moderate size, e.g. | inch or even an inch in diameter, can l)e crushed as readily and as successfully in yoiuig subjects as in adults, jarovided that all the fragments are removed at the time of ojieration. The urethra of a boy three or four years of age will usually admit of the introduction of a catheter No. 7 or 8 (Eng. scale), and the operation has been suc- cessfully performed in children as yoiuig as 18 months. Lithotrity in Females.—A crushing operation is not often required in females, owing to the power of dilatation of the urethra, but it gives good results in cases where a stone is too large to be removed intact by this route. Lithotomy.—Owing to the improvements in lithotrity during recent years, lithotomy is now performed much less frequently than was pre- viously the case, a cutting operation being re- quired only under certain special conditions, the most common of which are:—(1) A stone of large size and of extreme hardness; (2) an en- cysted condition of a stone; (3) a combination of stone, and marked enlargement of the prostate gland, where the calculus lies in a deep post- prostatic pouch. When one or other of these conditions is present, lithotomy is generally indicated, and the surgeon has then to choose between the recently revived suprapubic opera- tion, and what we are now beginning to regai-d as the " old-fashioned " perineal or lateral opera- tion. Of the two routes to the bladder, the suprapubic presents many advantages over the perineal, for it affords special facilities for the extraction of large or encysted calculi. In cases of stone associated with prostatic hypertroph}-, the enlarged gland is left untouclied, and there- fore free from the bruising and laceration which necessarily accompany the lateral operation under similar conditions. It also does away with all risk of hiemorrhage from the prostatic plexus of veins, often a somewhat troublesome complica- tion of lateral lithotomy when performed in persons advanced in years. In cases of encysted calculi, by permitting the wdiole of the interior of the bladder to be inspected, it renders their detection, as well as their removal, mucli easier. It also prevents any risk of injury to the rectum, the ejaculatory ducts, and the artery to the bulb, the division of the latter in lateral lithotomy being sometimes attended 1 ly troublesome htemorrhage. Consequently, perineal lithotomy, whether by a lateral or a median incision, is becoming per- formed less frequently year by year, the supra- pubic operation gradually replacing it. In suprapubie lithotoiny the bladder is entered liy an opening made through the abdominal walls in the middle line immediately above the pubes, care being taken to avoid wounding the anterior reflection of the peritoneum. When the bladder is empty this fold reaches down to the pubes, but when it is moderately distended {e.g. con- taining 6-10 oz. of fluid), the fold is raised and a suprapubic interval is left uncovered by peri- toneum, through M'hich the viscus can be safely entered. Before opening the bladder, it should be secured by two silk ligatures passed through its walls on either side of the median line, other- wise it often happens that immediately it is incised, the fluid contents escajae, and the viscus, as it empties itself, sinks back into the pelvis, so that it may be difficult to find the opening again, especially in the case of a stout subject. The bladder having been ojjened in the middle line between the two ligatures, care being taken to avoid woiniding the peritoneum and any over- lying veins, its interior is explored with the finger in order to ascertein the position of the stone, and also whether more than one is present. The stone or stones are then extracted by means of forceps or with a scoop, and all bleeding is arrested. As regards the after-treatment of the wound, this varies, depending upon the condition of the bladder-wall and the urine. If both are healthy, the opening in the bladder may be closed by sutures, which should include only the muscular coat, and in many cases it will heal by pi'imary union. It is usually advisable to leave the wound in the abdominal wall partly open, so that if the sutures give way and there