401 BLADDER, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF the viscus is empty, hence the term " contact epithelioma," sometimes applied to this con- dition. Secondary epithelioma is more frequent in females than in males, being more commonly due to extension from the uterus or vagina than from the rectimi : in the former case it may be either a columnar or squamous-celled growth; in the latter it is usually columnar. In car- cinoma of the bladdei', secondary deposits are occasionally found in the pelvic and lumbar lymphatic glands when the disease has been in existence for some time, and under these circumstances infiltration of the pelvic cellular tissue may also occur, in some cases giving rise to a swelling which is visiljle externally. Occa- sionally perforation of the bladder-wall takes place, followed by extravasation of urine, or liy the formation of a vesical fistula. Symptoms.—In encephaloid cancer the symp- toms and course of the disease are so similar to those of sarcoma, that it is often impossible to distinguish between them except by examination of a portion of the growth. In epithelioma the early symptoms are not, as a rule, intermittent attacks of hajmaturia, but rather those indicative of irritation of the bladder, cystitis developing at an earlier stage, probably in consequence of the infiltrating nature of the growth ; the result is that from the outset pain and frequent mic- tiu'ition are usually present. Sooner or later blood appears in the urine, varying in amount, the liii3morrhage being irregular in its occurrence, and depending to a large extent upon the pre- sence or absence of ulceration of the surface of the growth. The thickened condition of the bladder-wall, when the base is involved, can be felt on examination per rectum or per vaginam, and on exploration with a sound tlie rough, hard surface of the growth can often be dis- tinguished. On cystoscopic examination the appearance presented in encephaloid, and often in epithelioma, is very similar to that met with in sarcoma. In many cases of epithelioma there is, however, more distinct evidence of ulceration, the raised margins and brownish irregular base, with adherent shreds of greyish necrotic tissue, being plainly visible, and contrasting vividly with the smooth pinkish siu-face of the adjacent healthy mucous membrane. In carcinoma, secondary renal changes are more i-apidly pro- duced, for in consequence of the infiltrating nature of the growth the orifices of one or both ureters are likely to be soon obstructed, wliile from the early supervention of cystitis and its tendency to spread upwards to the kidneys, septic complications often develop in these organs at an earlier stage than in the course of other forms of bladder tumour. Diagnosis.—In cases of hfematuria of vesical origin, especially when of a painless nature and recurring in attacks separated by intervals of complete freedom, the presence of a growth should be suspected. When this condition has existed VOL. I for some months, or for a year or more, and when the attacks tend to increase in frequency and also in severity, but still remain unattended by any evidence of vesical irritation, the growth is probably a papilloma, less commonly of a sar- comatous nature. In cases where the bleedintr IS u-regular, or more or less persistent, but pre- ceded or accompanied from the first by pain and increased frequency in micturition, the growthi is more likely to be cancerous, viz. epithelioma. Other causes of vesical htemorrhage must also be considered, e.r/. stone, tuberculous ulceration, solitary ulcer, enlargement of the prostate, and cystitis. In prostatic h£emorrhage, except when produced by instrumentation, the blood is usually venous in origin and therefore of a darkish colour, not pink or bright red, as is usually the case when a growth is present, and there will be other signs pointing to the prostate as its source. In hsemorrhagic cystitis the bleeding is sometimes so free that it is at first attributed to a growth, but there will be no history of previous or recurrent attacks, and the patient will present other evidences of acute cystitis. The presence of a tumour can be verified by a cystoscopic examination, and in many cases by the detection of particles of the growth in the urine, which shoidd always be carefully examined in suspected cases. When of a cancerous nature it can often be felt on examination per rectmn or per vaginam. TiUiATMENT.—The palliative treatment consists in the adoption of measures to arrest hfemorrhage and to relieve the symptoms due to cystitis when this condition has supervened. To check bleeding, hemostatics should be given internally, and those which are most useful are ergot, hamamelis, turpentine, and gallic acid. Though the value of the last-named drug as an internal astringent has recently been questioned, the writer has seen marked benefit follow its ad- ministration (given in 10 gr. doses frequently repeated) in many cases of vesical h;emorrhage. Local injections are not, as a rule, to be recom- mended, though irrigation of the bladder with sterilised water or boric lotion (at a temperature of 110"-120° F.) sometimes causes a temporary arrest of bleeding. In some cases the same result may be obtained by injections of hazeline or tinct. hamamelis (3ij. to g-j.) undiluted, after the bladder has been washed out with warm boric lotion and then emptied of its contents. The application of an ice-bag to the perineum or over the pubes, and the introduction of ice into the rectum may also act in a similar manner, the patient being meanwhile kept absolutely at rest in the recumbent position. To relieve the pain and irritable condition of the bladder when cystitis is present, the treatment described for that condition should also be carried out. This form of treatment may often be adopted with benefit, either as a temporary measure pre- liminary to operation, or, in cases of malignant 26