36 ACCOMMODATION adjusted at the circular focus intermediate between the two linear foci. Amplitude of Accommodation.—This is the total accommodation of which an eye is capable ; it is therefore equal to the diflerence between the refractive power of the eye at rest and when accommodated to its fullest extent, that is to say, when accommodated for its near point. Let us consider the measurement of the amplitude of accommodation in emmetropia, hypermetropia, and myopia. In emmetropia, parallel rays are focussed on the retina by the refractive power of the eye at rest, and therefore the amplitude of accommoda- tion is equal to the accommodative effort made iu focussing objects at the near point. Suppose an emmetropic eye has its near point at 20 cm., and a lens of 20 cm. focal length be placed immediately in front of it; the lens will cause the transmitted rays starting from the near point 20 cm. distant to be parallel, and the eye can focus them without any effort of accom- modation. Thus it is seen that a lens of 20 cm. focal length has done the work equal in amount to the fullest effort of accommodation. The amplitude of accommodation in this case is therefore equal to a lens of 20 cm. focal length, which is a lens of 5D. In the case of hypermetropes, the hyperme- tropia has to be overcome by the accommodation in order to focus distant objects. The amplitude of accommodation will therefore be the sum of the hypermetropia, and that increase in the refractive power of the eye required in accom- modating from distant objects to those situated at the near point. Let us suppose, for example, a hypermetropic eye of 2D has its near point at 25 cm. A hypermetropic eye of 2D is one which has to accommodate 2D in order to focus parallel rays. As explained above, the eff'ort of accommodation required to focus rays diverging from a point 2.5 cm. over the amount required to focus parallel rays will be equal to a lens of 25 cm. focal length ; for the lens of 25 cm. focal length placed in front of the eye will give the transmitted rays from a point 25 cm. distant a parallel direction. Now a lens of 25 cm. focal length is a lens of 4D, therefore the total accom- modative effort exerted by the hypermetropic eye of 2D in focussing for its near point, 25 cm. distant, is 2D -f 4D = 6D, which is its amplitude of accommodation. In myopia the amplitude of accommodation is the increase in the refraction of the eye when focussing from the far point to the near point. Let us take as example a myope whose far point is at 25 cm. and his near point at 10 cm. It is obvious that the increase ia refraction is exactly the same for a myope focussing from a point 25 cm. to a point 10 cm. distant as for an emme- trope. Now the accommodation required by an emmetrope to focus objects at 25 cm. is equal to a lens of 25 cm. focal length, i.e. a lens of 4D, and the amount required to focus objects at 10 cm. is equal to a lens of 10 cm. focal length, ■i.e. a lens of lOD. The difference (lOD - 4D = 6D) represents the increase in the refraction required in focussing from 25 cm. to 10 cm.; and there- fore the amplitude of accommodation of the myope, whose far point is at 25 cm. and near point at 10 cm., is equal to 6D. The amplitude of accommodation varies with age, and is practically unaffected by differences of refraction; thus an individual of twenty years of age will have the same amplitude of accommodation whether he be emmetropic, hypermetropic, or myopic. Presbyopia. — The nucleus of the lens is formed by the gradual sclerosis of the central parts, and as age advances the nucleus gradu- ally increases in size. In children no distinct nucleus exists, though the centre of the lens is more resistant than the periphery. At twenty- ffve years a distinct though small nucleus is found, while in advanced age very little cortex remains, practically the whole of the lens having become sclerosed. The amplitude of accom- modation varies with the amount of soft cortex, and thus as age advances the amplitude gradu- ally diminishes, and with this the near point recedes. Donders discovered this fact, and determined the average amplitude of accom- modation at different ages. He found that at ten years there is an amplitude of 14D, at twenty years lOD, at 30 years 7D, at 40 years 4"5D. After forty years of age the accom- modation loses on the average ID every five years, and after sixty there is very little power of accommodation left. In order to do sustained work with comfort at 30 cm., the near point should not be farther away than 22 cm., as it is well to have a little accommodation in reserve. Now an emmetrope of forty years of age has his near point at 22 cm.; as his age increases the near point recedes and close work becomes difficult, especially reading fine print or threading needles by gas- light. The work is first held farther oft", later on close work becomes impossible without the help of glasses. The actual changes which have led to this result began in childhood, but it is only when the near point has receded beyond the position at which close work is habitually performed that the individual is inconvenienced, and it is then that 'presbyopia is said to have commenced. As above stated, for sustained close work the near point should not be beyond 22 cm.; for an emmetrope to see at this distance an accom- modation of 4-5D is required. At forty-five years his power of accommodation is reduced to 3'5D, and he will therefore need a convex lens of ID. At fifty, having only 2-5D of accom- modation, a lens of 2D is required ; at fifty-five a lens of 3D ; at sixty a lens of 4D. After the age of sixty the eye becomes slightly hyper-