378 BLACKWATEE FEVER The spleen is congested ; its capsule is thick and the parenchyma is black and soft. Masses of dark yellow substance are to be found both between and within its cells. The kidneys show intense hypersemia. The cortical substance on section is of a pale yellowish coloui-, the pyramids showing bi'own streaks, especially towards their apices. There is marked infiltration of leucocytes in the interstitial tissue, and the epithelium of the secreting tubules shows cloudy swelling. The convoluted tubules are filled with granular pigment substance which is being excreted by the lining cells. This yellowish substance, together with shed epithelium, often forms regular casts within the straight tubules. The suppression of urine which takes place in bad cases is obviously due to the blocking up of the tubules. Geographical Distribution. — Blackwater fever has a very wide distribution, but its prevalence in various countries is most un- equal. It is prevalent throughout tropical Africa. It is found all along the West Coast from the Senegal to the Coanza, but principally on the Congo, and on the deltas of the Niger and Gambia rivers. On the East Coast it is also widely spread, especially along the Zambesi, the lower Shire, and the shores of Lake Nyassa. It is common in some parts of Madagascar. In America it extends over the Southern States of the Union, chiefly Florida, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, Arkansas, and Texas, but recently also in North Carolina and Virginia. It is also prevalent in the plains of Venezuela, and in the West Indies. In Europe its principal seats are the Greek Archipelago, Sicily, and Sardinia. In Asia the French have found it in Tonquin, and lately it has been described as occurring in Assam, Darjeeling, Terai, Meerut, and Amritsar. In regard to India it is interesting to note that the disease had not been described previous to 1885, and this would lead us to believe that it might be of recent importation. The disease exhibits such striking symptoms that it would be absurd to think that it could have escaped the attention of such men as Chevers, Carter, Martin, Fayrer, Morehead, and Maclean, had they met with it. Powell, who informs us of its appearance in Assam, states that he saw the disease previously " in those who returned from the Gold Coast." American authors state that it has lately become more prevalent in the United States. Meek says that it first appeared in Texas in 1866. It would be interesting to know whether it existed in America previous to the advent of the African negro. Although blackwater fever has a wide distri- bution, it is limited in its endemicity to low swampy grounds. Some authors have reported its occurrence at high altitudes, but that does not prove that it was contracted in the high- lands. We know that the disease may remain latent for a long while, and that those who have suffered from it may have relapses at long inter- vals and far from the place in which the disease was contracted. It is not to be wondered at, therefore, that the disease should develop sooner or later in those who were obliged to cross the swamps at the foot of mountains in the season in which the disease is rife. However, I do not deny that the disease might be contracted excep- tionally in the highlands, because if the inter- mediate host of the blackwater fever organism were a flying insect, it might be blown by the wind on to the highlands, and if it were a parasitic insect it might be introduced with imported cattle. Seasonal Prevalence. — In the Southern States of the American Union, blackwater fever is reported to be especially frequent in late summer and in autumn. On the West Coast of Africa it prevails after the rainy season is over (August and September), when the atmosphere is hot and moist. It is therefore apparent that, like other infectiovis diseases, blackwater fever is directly or indirectly dependent on peculiar meteorological conditions. Of course relapses may occur at any season and in any climate. Epidemiology. — Blackwater fever at times assumes an epidemic form. It may not be seen for years in a district, and then numbers of cases may occur within a short time. It has been observed that the disease has of late years become more prevalent in some regions, while in others it seems to have been only recently in- troduced. It broke out among the labourers employed in making the canal through the Isthmus of Corinth. Dr. Wenyon, of Fatshan, China, says that in 1885 "it ravaged like a plague the Chinese army on the Tonquin border of Krvangsi." In collective dwellings, such as barracks, hospitals, schools, it may attack several persons at the same time. In 1885 it broke out in a prison in Castiades (Sardinia). Predisposing Causes.—Sex and age are of no importance; adult men are chiefly attacked on account of their greater exposure. At one time race was considered an important factor. In Africa, Europeans and Chinese are attacked in great numbers, while the natives are said to enjoy an immunity. That the natives should be relatively immune is quite natural, but it is not a racial immunity; it is simply the immu- nity that a long struggle through many genera- tions has conferred on those who inhabit the districts in which the disease is endemic. In fact, natives of the same tribe, but living in places which are usually free from blackwater fever, will contract the disease just like Euro- peans when they come within its reach. Plehn mentions a serious oiitbreak of blackwater fever among the blacks in the Cameroons, the disease specially attacking those who had come to the coast from the interior. Reynalds informs us