ANGINA PECTORIS 193 rise of arterial tension as well as arterial con- traction. Arterio-sclerosis is thus produced, and the sclerosed vessels are particularly liable to hypertonic contraction. Hypersensitiveness of the vaso-motor centre is closely related to aiigina pectoris, and thus it comes about that digestive disturbances as well as mental emotion and physical effort precipitate attacks of heart pain. The correction of dietetic errors, and the use for a time of peptonised milk, etc., will, there- fore, often act beneficially in checking angina pectoris.] AngiO-m See Angeio-. Ang'le Gamma.~The angle between the fixation line and the geometrical axis of the eyeball. See Refraction and Stkabismus. Angfola Seeds. See Abrus Preca- TOKIUS. Angkor Pectoris. See Angina Pec- toris. Angruillula IntestinaliS. Para- sites (Aili/iosto/n/i/c') ; and Si>rue. Ang^ular Curvature. See Spine, Surgical Affections of (Spinal Caries). Anhedonia.—Loss of the feeling of plea- sure in acts which are normally pleasurable. Anhidrosis or Anidrosis.—Diminu tion or complete absence of persj)iration ; aui- drotics or anthidrotics are drugs (e.ff. atropine and quinine) capable of checking jjerspiration. See Skin, Diseases of Sweat Glands. AnideuS.—Shapeless, amorphous, e.ij. the fietus anideus. See Teratology (Alla.ntoido- ani/iopar/ous Twins). Aniline. — Amidobenzene (CyH^NH,,), an aromatic base or artificial alkaloid, olitained in various ways from coal-tar oil. It has been used, especially as aniline sulphate (1 to 2 grains), in spasmodic affections, such as chorea. Many of the so-called "aniline dyes" are not made from aniline at all. Aniline and the dyes produce poisonous effects. See Anilismus. Anilipyrine.—A preparation containing antipyrine and acetanilide (two parts to one), used in rheumatism and influenza (dose, 5 to 15 grains). Anilismus.—The morbid state produced by the inhalation of the fumes of aniline and its compounds; it consists in cyanosis, rapidity and intermittency of the pulse, nausea, uncer- tainty of gait, etc. See Derm.vtitis Trau- matica et Venenata; Toxicology (Coal-Tar Derivatives); Trades, Dangerous (Anilitie and Dinitrobenzine). vol. I Animal Foods. See Diet {Animal Fooils) anil (loU'i'. Animation, Suspended.— Appar- ent death. See Asphyxia. Anions. — Positively charged acid ions. See Ions. Aniridia.—Absence of the iris, complete or partial, traumatic or antenatal ; irideremia. See Iris and Ciliary Bodies. Anisi Fructus.—Anise fruit, obtained from an umbelliferous plant {Pimpinella anisurn), contains a volatile oil [Oleum Anisi) which is official (dose, i to 3 m). The only preparation of anise fruit is Aqua Anisi (dose, 1 to 2 fl oz.); while from the oil is made the Spiritus Anisi (dose, 5 to 20 m.). Like dill fruit (Anethi Fructus, q.v.), this medicine is used as a car- minative in the flatulence of infants and chil- dren ; in a small degree it is also an expectorant. Anethol (Cj^iHj.^O) is the chief part of oil of anise; anesic aldehyde (CgHgOo), with a plea- sant odour, is got from it; and from it again, by oxidation, is obtained anisic acid (C^HgOg). Other compounds are anisic alcohol (CgHj^Oo), anisol (C^HgO), and anisoic acid (CjgHjgOg). AniSOCOria.—Inequality of the pupils. AniSOmetropiC.—Having eyes with a different refractive power. See Refraction. Ankle-joint, Regrion of—In- juries and Diseases. I. In.juries— Sprains . . . . .194 Displacement of Tendons . .195 Wounds . . . . .196 Gunshot Wounds . . .196 Fractures in Viciniti/ of Aiikle- Joint . . . . .197 Dislocations of AuMe-Joint . 198 Fractures of Astraqalus . .199 Dislocations of Astraf/alus . 199 Sub-astragaloid Dislocations . 200 Fractures of Os Calais . . 200 Rupture of Tendo Achillis . 200 II. Diseases— A. Of the Ankle-Joint : Simple Synovitis . . . 201 Septic S//novitis . . .201 Acute Suppurative Arthritis . 201 Affections in the Course of the Acute Specific Fevers . . 201 Tuberculous Arthritis . . 201 Si/philitic Affections . . 202 Gonorrhwal Affections . . 203 Osteo-Arthritis . . . 203 Gouti/ Arthritis . . . 203 Tabetic Arthropathy . . 203 Loose Bodies . . . .204 Ankylosis . . .204 Hysterical .... 204 13