472 BRAIN, PHYSIOLOGY OF tract of Edinger, but recently shown by Ferrier and Turner to conduct from the cerebeUum towards the nucleus of Deiters. The glossopharyngeal, vagus, and vagus-acces- sory nerves are arranged on the same plan, and arise along the whole length of the medulla. There are three roots, and three common nuclei:— 1. A motor root arising from tlie nucleus ambigiuis in the middle of the formatio reticu- laris. It is probable that this root goes to the striped muscles supplied by these nerves. 2. A dorsal root (sometimes termed sensorj^, but almost certainly motor), arising from a nucleus of small cells in immediate proximity to the hypoglossal nucleus : l^ehind the latter in the lower medulla, to its outer side in the upper medulla. As this root does not degenerate when the nerve is destroyed by tumours, it is almost certainly efferent, and Marinesco has suggested that its function is to supply non-striped muscle. 3. The sensory root proper (fasciculus soli- tarius, or rotundus), which forms a rounded bundle external to the dorsal nucleus in the upper medulla, and behind it in the lower. This root terminates in cells which accompany it in its whole length. The spinal accessory nerve is purely motor, and sujjplies the muscles of the palate, and larynx, and the trapezius, and sterno-mastoid. It arises in a special group of cells in the anterior coruu of the cord, which can be traced as low as the sixth cervical segment. Brain, Affections of Blood- vessels. AnyEMia of the Brain .... 472 HyPER/EMIA „,,.... 474 OEdema 474 Cerebral Haemorrhage— Introductory ..... 475 Etiology ...... 475 Symptoms ..... 476 Pathology ..... 476 Diagnosis ..... 477 Prognosis ..... 478 Occlusion of Cerebral Vessels— Cerebral Embolism .... 478 Arterial Occlusions or Thrombosis 479 Vascular Lesions of Syphilitic Origin 480 Paralysis from Vascular Lesions— Hemiplegia ..... 481 Pseudo-Bulbar Paralysis . 481 Paralysis with Sensory Disturbances . 481 Aphasia ...... 482 Muscular Rigidity .... 482 The Reflexes ..... 482 Vascular Lesions of Crus and Pons 482 Thrombosis in Veins and Sinuses— Simple ...... 482 Infective ...... 483 Conditions resulting from Vascular Lesions— Athetosis ...... 484 Other Involuntary Movements . . 484 Convulsions f. . . . .484 Contractures ..... 484 Trophic Changes in Sli'v, Jfuscles, and Joints . . . . .484 Treatment ...... 484 /. AN.i:MiA OF THE Bbain.—By anfemia of the brain is meant general cerebral anajmia, partial cerebral anaemia being almost invariably the result of some obstruction to the passage of blood through a particular vessel or group of vessels, on account of some local disease. Gen- eral cerebral autemia may be the result of aiicBmia affecting the whole body, antemia de- pendent either upon a deficiency in the quantity of the blood, or, more generally, upon some change in its quality. The first of those condi- tions may be the result of severe loss of blood, either from injury or from visceral disease. The second is usually associated with very definite evidences of anaemia of other organs and other parts of the body. Anaemia of the brain also may be the result of some cause wliich hinders the access of blood to the brain through the usual channels. Thus, the pres- sure of an aneurysm, or of a growth on the carotid or vertebral arteries, may give rise to very marked anaemia of the brain. Cerebral anaemia also has been supposed to occur as a result of acute exhausting disease; but the evidence of this becomes each day less strong as we recognise more and more the likelihood that symptoms formerly attributed to anfemia in such conditions are more likely to be the result of the action of toxic substances on the brain. Symptoms.—The symptoms of the condition vary with the degree of anaemia present, and also with the mode of its production. In the case of anaemia which is suddenly produced, drowsiness is a marked feature, the special senses are dulled, the pupils are at fir.st con- tracted and may subsequently dilate, there is great muscular relaxation, the skin is pale and clammy, the respiration is sighing, there is a feeling of nausea, not commonly actual sickness, and consciousness may be lost. General con- vulsions, epileptiform in character, may occur. When general anaemia is slowly produced the brain action is usually excited with undue facil- ity and with insufficient force. There may be dulness and drowsiness, although at times in- somnia is a common result. In severe cases head- ache, sensory hyperaesthesia, tinnitus aurium, and vertigo may occur; and delirium is met with in extreme conditions. Convulsions are rare, and all the symptoms which have been mentioned are much more apt to occur when the patient is in the erect posture, and may be relieved by the recumbent position.