vi INTRODUCTION ill these volumes. On the other hand, he will discover a large number of new paragraphs, varying in size from a few words to twenty or thirty lines, representing the dictionarial or lexicographic portion of the work. The value of such an arrangement will best be made plain by citing a few instances which illustrate the method in which it may be employed by the reader. Let it be supposed that information is wanted regarding any one or all of the aspects of Abortion. The reader will turn to the word Abortion, and under it he will discover Emeritus Professor A. E. Simpson's concise and instructive article upon that subject, extending to some seven thousand words. He will also find that he is furnished with a short summary of the matters dealt with in the article which will enable him to turn at once to the special point (in the causes, symptoms, diagnosis, or treatment of the condition) which he may desire to consult. But more, he will notice that he is referred to other articles in the Encyclopedia and Dictionary which will throw further light upon certain aspects of this complication of pregnancy. Thus he will see a cross-reference to Chorea Gravidarttm, and into his mind will in all probability at once come the remem- brance that abortion commonly occurs in this disease, and also that induction of abortion is occasionally employed in the treatment of it. Again, he will note cross- references to Curettage, Uterine, a minor operation often used in the treatment of incom- plete abortion; to Medicine, Forensic, which reminds him of the criminal aspects of the subject; to Pregnancy, Management of, which suggests the modes of preventing the untimely termination of gestation; to Syphilis, one of the causes of abortion; and to Trades, Dangerous, with their abortifacient effects. By making use of these references, and others which are given but not here specified, he will have the whole question of Abortion so opened out to him that he will obtain a complete survey not only of it but also of the questions allied to it. To cite an instance from quite another part of medicine. Under the heading Alcohol, the practitioner who consults the Encyclopedia-Dictionary will find not only a long article upon the chemical, physiological, pathological, and toxicological effects of that substance, but also a group of illuminating cross-references to Antipyretics; Aseptic Treatment; Breath ; Colour Vision {Acquired Colour Blindness) ; Epilepsy ; Heart, General Pathology; Insanity, Etiology of; Liver, Diseases of; Liver, Acute Hepatitis; Nephritis ; Nerves, Neuritis; Temperature; Tetany; Toxicology {Organic Poisons); etc. Once more, let it be supposed that the reader has come across the term " Agglu- tination " in a medical journal or in a report sent in to him from a laboratory. If he will refer to that word in the Encyclopedia-Dictionary he will find this short definition of it: " The phenomenon which follows the contact of micro-organisms with an immune serum whereby they lose their motility and aggregate in clumps; the Widal test." If, further, he wish to know more about the matter, he will be directed to articles on Immunity, to Typhoid Fever {Pathology), and to Undulant Fever, where he will get the information he wants. In some instances it has been found possible to dispense with the definition of a word, the cross-reference sufficing to suggest its meaning. Thus Aglaukopsia is not defined ; the reader is referred to Colour Vision {Green Blindness), which is quite sufficient. Under Agaricus, again, there is no definition, but simply the cross-reference to Toxicology {Fungi), which can hardly fail to indicate what is wanted. In this way space is