343 BALNEOLOGY beneath the hollow floor. Here again the bather was rubbed and sometimes anointed with oils. He now had warm water poured over him, and the skin was sponged and scraped with strigils. Thence again he returned to the sweating rooms, the tepidarium and the frigidarium, where he received an affusion of cold water, and was finally dried and anointed with perfumed oils. The Koman baths extended everywhere with tlieir conquests, and were often for convenience erected, as at Bath, in England, in the vicinity of hot springs. In Rome itself they gradually fell into disuse in the fifth century, partly from the cutting of the aqueducts by the Hims, but they continued to flourish in Alexandria, and were adopted by the Mohammedans. The Arabs brought the bath into Spain, and the crusaders still fiu'thcr spread its use, particu- larly for the treatment of the plague and leprosy. In the thirteenth century hot-air or vapour baths were common in England and in the large cities of Europe. Later on they were forgotten, but reappeared again and again, although the Celtic races retained them with some tenacity. They were brought to England about two centuries since under the eastern name Humimvn, and once more in their present form as the so-called Turkish Bath about the year 1860. Vapour Bath.—Closely allied to the baths just described, but of a much ruder construc- tion, are the heated steam or steam and air baths employed by many different nations since early times. Such were used by the ancient Mexicans and North American Indians. The Romans utilised the steam of hot springs, and set up natural vapour baths beside the Thermae, such as those in Ischia and the Baths of Nero at I'ozzuoli. Among the northern nations the Celts of Scotland and Ireland used vapour baths, and those of the Einns and Russians remain in their primitive simplicity to the present time. A similar bath has been long- used by the Japanese. In the Russian bath the heat is supplied by red-hot stones and shot. The bathers, after undressing, recline or lie upon seats that are placed around in tiers. When water is poured over the heated metal dense clouds of steam fill the room and quickly induce a perspiration. The attendants proceed to switch the body with birch twigs and rub it with bass and soap-suds. The Finlanders some- times make use of dry heat in their baths at a higher temperature. Otherwise the Finnish batli is verj' similar to the Russian. Both Finns and Russians when heated and perspiring from tiie bath expose themselves to intense cold with impunity. The observed effects and rationale of these procedures will be discussed hereafter. Douche Bath (Italian Doccia).—The Douche bath was apparently unknown to the ancients, the stil/icidium, aspersion and pouring on of water after the Greek and Roman baths, being essentially different. The douche proper is said to have been first employed by Pietro Tussignano in 1336. Priessnitz, the father of hydropathy, utilised a mountain stream dis- charging from a gutter six feet above the patient's body. P)y the French this invaluable method of treatment has been much developed, and refinements of pressure and temperature introduced ; and at the present time the douche mobile is at the head of balneo - therapeutic procedures in France. Peat and Mud Baths.—It is recorded that the Romans used mineral mud baths, probably in connection with thermal springs. The peat or moorbath (German Moorhad) consists of an earth or mould formed from disintegrated sphagniun moss and other vegetable matter, with or without mineral admixtures. It is much employed at the Bohemian spas, and was intro- duced at Franzensbad early in the jiresent century, and shortly afterwards in Germany at Pyrmont. Mud baths of different sorts have been long used in many localities, especially in the neighbourhood of warm springs and by the sea-shore. They are met with at the French and Italian spas, in the Crimea and the Baltic provinces, in Norway, in Japan and elsewliere. The Medicinal Use op Baths is frequently alluded to in the Greek mythology. Homer speaks of Andromache preparing the bath of Hector, and of Penelope using imgents and baths to mitigate the melancholy caused by her husband's absence; and Minerva imparts strength to the weary Hercules at the springs of Ther- mopylfe. The beneficial effect of warm bathing in senile debility appears to have been not un- known in the same remote time. When Ulysses, after his return to Ithaca, found his father Laertes reduced to great weakness, he advised him to use warm bathing, and told him that he had seen one worn down and emaciated b}- age, who by the use of warm baths very quickly recovered his appetite and rest. He adds that its efficacy in such cases was well known, and that it was a common custom among old men {Odyss. xxiv.). Hippocrates recommends warm baths in fevers, and mentions the use of hot springs, and of watery and balsamic vapours. Plato speaks of baths as useful in various dis- eases, as do Asclepiades and Cfelius Aurelianus. The incomparable Areta^us prescribed warm sulphureous baths in elephantoid disease, and for the cure of melancholy. In using vapour baths, he first excluded the head, so as to apply lieat to the body only. Celsus recommended cold baths and aff'usions in fevers and phrenitis, in which he was followed by Galen, who gives an excellent account of this treatment as applied to hypei-pyrexia. Among subsequent writers, Oribasius, Aetius, and Paul us .^Egiueta, and later on the Arabian physicians, developed the balneo-therapeutic doctrine, and extended its