GLANDS 64 ADRENAL separated the substance raising the blood- pressure from aqueous extracts of the glands in the' form of a benzoate; to the active prin- ciple he assigns the formula Cj^H^^NO^. The active principle is not desti'oyed by artificial gastric digestion in vitro, so that the administration of the extract by the mouth is physiologically correct from a theoretical point of view. There is also no doubt that it raises the blood-pressure of patients thought to have Addison's disease ; this was very well shown in a patient under my care, whose blood-pressure went up very decidedly. The tracings were taken by Dr. 0. F. F. Grlinbaum, who, however, found that he could not raise his own blood- pressure by taking suprarenal extract by the mouth, as tested by Oliver's sphygmo-dynamo- meter. Swale Vincent also failed to produce any toxic effects in animals by giving suprarenal capsules and decoctions made from them by the mouth, and suggested that the active principle of the glands is not absorbed when taken into the stomach. Probably absorption from the gastric mucosa is slow, and the active principle as it is absorbed is stowed away on the muscles and does not influence the blood-pressure of healthy persons. Adrenalin See also Addison's Disease ; Hay Fever ; " Hemisine "; Pulse ; Teeth. The functions of the suprarenal glands having been already considered in the article on the physiology of the adrenal glands {q-v.), the scope of the present article is confined to the thera- peutic employment of suprarenal substance and its derivatives. It is only necessary to recall the fact determined by Schiifer and Oliver that injection of an extract of suprarenal medulla causes a marked though transient rise of blood- pressure in consequence of contraction of the smooth muscle fibres of the arterial walls by the direct action of the extract. It also stimu- lates the vagus and the cardiac and uterine muscle fibres. Langley has shown that the following are some of the further effects pro- duced by suprarenal extract: secretion of the salivary and lachrymal glands, and of various mucous membranes, increase followed by decrease of the bile secretion, inhibition of the gall-bladder, slow contraction of the pupil in the dog, and contraction and pallor of the uterus, vas deferens, and seminal vesicles. Further, it has been shown that injection of a sufliciently large quantity of suprarenal extract into rabbits and dogs causes the appearance of dextrose in the urine, the glycosura being probably not due to the presence of a diastatic ferment in the extract (Croftan, Hector, and Richards, 1902). There is still some dubiety as to whether the active principle of the suprarenal medulla has been yet obtained. Of a number of substances claimed as the true active principle, the most efficacious are " epi- nephrin," isolated by Abel and Crawford, and "adrenalin," prepared by Takamine. Adrena- lin is regarded by Abel as an impure modifica- tion of epinephrin. The reader who desires further information regarding the natiire of the active principle may consult an article by Abel in the Bulletin of tlie Johns Hopkins Hospital, xiii. 1902, p. 29. The gland substance may be administered as powdered or liquid suprarenal extract, as tablets, or in the form of adrenalin chloride solution. The preparations may be employed locally, may be administered by the mouth, as the active prin- ciple is not destroyed by peptic digestion, or may be introduced directly into the circulation. The chief conditions in which suprarenal substance has been employed are as follows:— Haemorrhage.—The extract produces its bene- ficial effect by causing contraction of the muscle fibres of the ai'terial walls ; the extract does not cause coagulation of the blood in the same manner, for instance, as do iron preparations or hepatic exti-acts. Suprarenal extract is of value in conti-olling hajmorrhage and in blanching mucous surfaces in many surgical operations, and more especially in nasal (vide " Nose," " Local Ana)sthetics "), aui'al, and ophthalmic surgery, and in arresting uterine, rectal, prostatic, and vesical hajmorrhage. In these cases the exti'act can be applied locally by means of gauze or cotton-wool tampons, or by means of a douche or spray. In post-partum hajmorrhage uterine contraction is most efficiently obtained by direct intra-uterine injection of the extract, and Schiifer points out that the addition of sixty grains of calcium chloride to the douche increases its value. In some cases of hopniophilia internal adminis- tration of the extract is reported to have been beneficial, in others to have been vahieless, whilst some writers record cases of this disease in which haemorrhage was successfully arrested Ijy local application of the extract. In (/astro-intestinal haemorrhage administration of the extract by the mouth may induce vomit- ing, and thus increase the haemorrhage ; but in some cases the extract has undoubtedly been of value in checking hiemorrhage, especially when the bleeding is due to a gastric ulcer of com- paratively recent origin, situated near the cardiac orifice of the stomach (Soltau Fenwick). The extract may also be useful in the treatment of haemorrhage in typhoid fever. Hay Fever.—Internal administration of the extract to patients suffering from hay fever has been found to be of great value in checking the coryza and the attacks of sneezing, but it is still better to apply the extract dii'ectly to the nasal mucous membrane by means of a spray pro- ducer. In the ocular disturbance of hay fever, in conjunctivitis and iritis, direct application of the extract to the conjunctiva is of benefit, checking the hyperEemia, and having at the same time no effect upon accommodation.