300 ASEPSIS—ANTISEPTICS antiseptics is not a mere logical quibble. Per- fect safety in surgery is only obtained by the absolute exclusion of all bacteria. This is of course impossible if the disinfectants did not kill or the antiseptics exclude. In practice, however, it is usually most difficult to say where disinfection ends and antisepsis begins, or vice versa; or again, where disinfection and anti- sepsis overlap. Nevertheless, the patient's life often depends upon this kind of knowledge. It is obvious that the antiseptics are exceed- ingly complex both in their mode of action and in their degree of action against bactei'ia. Their use requires a certain degree of skill, and the result is apt to be xmcertain, unless constantly checked by the test of culture media. Thus it follows that there is room for the widest differ- ences of opinion as to the value of various chemical substances. Befoi'e, however, a chemi- cal is chosen, it ought to be submitted to a thorough test in the laboratory. This often proves that disinfecting properties are absent and the antiseptic are feeble. Further, its exact composition should be known, and also that it does not vary. This proviso excludes the various patent panaceas. The Scientific Testing of antiseptic sub- stances has yielded rather astonishing results, and has shown many to possess no disinfectant powers and but feeble antiseptic. The test is usually conducted after Koch's method. Silk or cotton thread is sterilised with steam or boiling water. Pieces an inch long are soaked in a virulent culture of anthrax. This ought to have been grown at body temperature for a week, and be full of spores. After having been soaked in anthrax the bits of thread are dried in a sterilised capsule in a warm incubator. They are then soaked in the antiseptic and washed in sterilised distilled water to remove the chemical. They are then put on the surface of a culture medium or dropped into broth, or into a gelatine tube which has been melted to receive them. Finally, the culture is put into the incubator at body temperature. Koch proceeded in this way and obtained no growth. He therefore concluded the spores had been killed by the various chemicals, or their growth delayed. Also, in case the water had not re- moved all the antiseptic, he washed the strings in alcohol. Geppert, however, has clearly shown that Koch failed to remove sublimate by merely using water or alcohol. He found that anthrax still grew after an exposure of twelve minutes in 1 per cent sublimate solution, provided the threads were afterwai'ds soaked in a 30 per cent solution of ammonium sul- phide. Choice op Antiseptic.—The ideal anti- septic would have to fulfil a vast number of conditions, some of which are incompatible: (First) To kill bacteria and prevent their growth; (second) not to poison the patient; (third) not to injure the tissues, mucous mem- branes, or skin ; (fourth) to act speedily; (fifth) to act continuously; (sixth) to penetrate; (seventh) not to volatilise ; (eighth) to be soluble in water and spirit; (ninth) not to combine with albumen or fat; (tenth) not to injure in- struments or garments. The various chemicals at our disposal possess these properties in varying degrees. A part of the practice of antiseptic surgery consists in using the chemical which is most suitable for the kind of infection which has to be overcome. For instance, a solution of nitrate of silver is not very suitable as an application to a septic wound, although marvellously efficacious for a septic urinary bladder. I have already said that the antiseptic properties of sublimate are done away with or diminished by combination with albumen. The antiseptic properties of carbolic acid are de- stroyed in the same way. A great many oily substances are also inimical. The experiments of Koch showed that carbolic oil possessed hardly any value as a disinfectant, and but feeble antiseptic properties. The same applies to mixtures of chemicals with glycerine, lano- line, lard, and the petroleum compounds. The greasiness of the human skin is one of the chief obstacles to its disinfection and antisepsis. The action of all soluble antiseptics is greatest when they are dissolved in a thin fluid, like water. The addition of alcohol sometimes helps by enabling the antiseptic to penetrate. Although the disinfecting properties of chemi- cals are so feeble, nevertheless their antiseptic properties are sufficient for the needs of surgical work. Anthrax grows after its spores have soaked four hours in 1 in 1000 solution of sublimate, provided all the chemical is removed with ammonium sulphide (Kanthack). Accord- ing to Koch, three parts of sublimate in a million parts of water arrests the development of anthrax bacilli. The ordinary pyogenic organisms are certainly not more resistant than anthrax. Therefore, after instruments, sponges, ligatures, towels, hands, and so forth have been disinfected, very dilute solutions of chemicals can be relied upon to maintain asepsis. Each surgeon has his own predilections. We are accustomed to use 1 in 60 carbolic acid lotion or 1 in 2000 to 1 in 4000 biniodide of mercury lotion. It is exceedingly difficult to obtain an anti- septic dressing which conforms to the require- ments. Those which consist of wool or gauze impregnated with mercuric compounds are ex- ceedingly efficient antiseptics, but are apt to cause dermatitis. Those which contain boric acid, iodoform, salicylic acid, or eucalyptus are unirritating, but, at the same time, compara- tively feeble antiseptics. Carbolic gauze (5 per cent) is a fairly satisfactory antiseptic, and seldom causes dermatitis.