BLOOD, PHYSIOLOGY AND CLINICAL INVESTIGATION OF 411 ing tho appiiaraucci of tiny pears, otlicrs kidney- shaped or oval in sliape. The smallest forms, the mierocytes, are believed by Ehrlicli to be due to contraction of the poikilocytes, that is to say, analogous to the erenated forms of the erythrocytes. This, however, is doubtful, though it is possilile that they are degeneration forms of the erythrocytes resulting from a seg- mentation of tlie latter. In addition to the alterations in form, there are also variations in staining properties to be noticed in different pathological conditions. Reference has already been made to alterations of a quantitative type in eosin-stained prepara- tions, but the ansemic degenerations require to be discussed more fully. In a dried him the reds take up the eosin out of an eosin-lipema- toxylin mixture and stain of a pure red tint, while in certain forms of aniemia more or less of the haimatoxylin is also taken up, so that the cells take on a bluish tint. One may speak of these corpuscles, then, as polychromatojjhil. This is undoubtedly due to the fact that the cells are no longer so resistant to the entrance of the haimatoxylin which now diffuses inwards. It cannot be due to an alteration in the character of the blood pigment. Frequently in anajmic conditions a simple diminution in the amount of luemoglobin in each cell is seen from the light tint after staining with eosin. Even in normal blood both of these qualitative and quantitative alterations may be seen to a slight degree, as one would naturally expect, seeing that the cells are being constantly exposed to alterations in the plasma. Care of course has to be taken to exclude changes due to dififerent durations of staining and insufhcient fixation. Another pathological alteration in the red cells is the appearance of nucleated forms (erythroblasts) of different size — normoblasts, megalol)lasts, and microblasts. The first of these three are the forerunners of the normal erythrocytes. Under ordinary conditions they do not pass into the blood, but are always to be found in the bone marrow of the adult. Mega- loblasts are only very rarely found in the adult marrow, but are present in that of tlie foetus, and also for the first few years after birth. The normoblasts contain a nucleus which stains very deeply and homogeneously with nuclear dyes, and presents a well-defined contour. Very frequently it is found lying slightly excentrically in the cell. There may be more than one nucleus present. The cytoplasm usually stains in the pure hfcmoglobin tint, but there are frequently qualitative alterations of the polychromatophil type. The niegalohlasts are always much larger than the normoblasts, frequently being four times their size. The nucleus, although larger than that of the normoblast, is, in comparison to their respective cytoplasms, usually smaller than in the latter. The staining attinities of the nuclei in these large cells vary, always less, however, than those of the normoblasts. The cytoplasm of those cells is more fre- quently polychromatophil than that of the nor- moblasts. The small nucleated forms—microblasts—are rare, and, so far as is at present known, of no special jjathological importance. The number of the red cells may also undergo variations. Here only a few points of import- ance need be referred to, as the subject is dis- cussed in other articles. One may say that in the vast majority of cases an increase in number is due to a decrease in the amount of plasma. Therefore when polycythsemia is referred to, it is, as a rule, a relative, not an absolute, increase of the total red corpuscles in the circulating blood. They may undergo variations in num- ber in different physiological conditions (dietetic, climatic, rapid or slow functional alterations as at birth), jjathological (primary and secondary an;emias in different cachectic conditions), and also from the action of poisons or drugs (lead, iron, arsenic, mercury, and all agents which act as disturbers of the amount of plasma, such as purgatives). The term " polycythfemia" is aj^plied to those conditions where the nmnber of red cells per unit volume of blood is higher than the normal, while " oligocythiemia " signi- fies a decrease per unit volume. The variations in the number of the red cells per se are not so iinj^ortant as alterations in the amount of hfcrno- globin in each cell. Oligocytlux^mia may be artificially produced in animals by withdrawal of varying quantities of blood. Almost inmie- diately after the removal, the blood-pressure begins to sink, but in a very short time it again commences slowly to rise, until it becomes almost as high as at first. The reason for this rise is twofold. In the first place, there is the vaso-motor action tiying to counteract the effect of the greater emptiness of the vessels; and secondly, there is the passage inwairls of lymph into the blood to supply the place of the fluid that has been lost. This latter action takes place when the vaso-motor effect is passing off. Patliologically, oligocythajmia may be produced in a variety of ways. There is frequently a diminution in the formation of red cells in the primary' antemias, or there may be an increased breaking down of the corpuscles, as in pernicious anajmia, or an increased pas.sage inwards of lymph, as in recovery after ha;morrhage. The great diversity of opinion existing as to the cause of oligo- or polycythfemia is probably due to the fact that in a large number of conditions (])hysiological as well as pathological) the varia- tions are not due to the disturbance of one etiological factor, but to many. To take an example, the undoubted increase in red cells that takes place when an animal is taken from a low to a high altitude is probalily due partlj' to an increase in the removal of water from the