1' BRAIN, TUMOURS OF 489 contrary, tumours may exist without engendering symptoms of any kind, or, while giving rise to some evidence of their presence, one or more of the cardinal symptoms may be absent. Headache.—Of the general symptoms none is more constant than headache ; indeed it is only in exceptional cases that this symptom is absent. The pain varies in character and intensity, but is sometimes most agonising. Such severe pain occurs in paroxysms, and in the ii:itervals there may be complete freedom from pain; more commonly, however, some pain, moderate or slight in degree, persists even in the intervals between the severe paroxysms. It is usually deep-seated, though sometimes superficial, and is commonly increased by muscular efforts, coughing, or other conditions which cause passive cerebral congestion. In some cases the pain is trouljlesome when the patient wakes in the morning, in which case giddiness and vomit- ing may accompany it. The pain may be general, or it may be localised to one part, or even when general it may be more intense in one part than in any other. Localised pain may correspond to the seat of tumoiir, but too much reliance cannot be placed on this evidence, as, while it is of undoubted value in some cases, it leads to serious errors in others. Tumours on the swrface of the brain are especially liable to give rise to localised pain which corresponds in situation witii the seat of the tumour. In addition to this, twnwurs of the frontal lohes commonly occasion frontal headache, while tumours of the cerebellum or occipital lobes fre- quently give rise to occipital headache ; in other words, the seat of the tumour and that of most pain correspond. There is, however, no con- stancy with regard to this ; for, in addition to cases in which the pain is equally intense in all parts of the head, there are those in which, with a tumour situated anteriorly, the pain is chiefly complained of in the occipital region, and others in which, with a tumour situated posteriorly, the pain has been referred to the forehead. Cerebellar tumours commonly give rise to occi- pital pain, but on the otlier hand the pain may be frontal, in which case it may be either on the same side as the tumour or on the opposite side. The crossed frontal headache in cerebellar tumour has been regarded as of localising value by Purves Stewart, who considers that it is to be accounted for by the anatomical connection between one lateral lobe of the cerebellum and the opposite frontal lobe of the cerebrum. From the point of view of localisation, more important than pain is localised tenderness on pressure or percussion of the skull. Vomiting, though common, is not so frequent as either headache or optic neuritis, nor is it usually so early a symptom as headache. In some cases it is most intense and frequent, in others it perhaps only occurs once or twice throughout the whole course of the case, while in some again it may be a prominent symptom during a certain period of the case, without being present either before or after. There may be the most intense feeling of sickness, resulting in strenuous efforts at vomiting, and such attacks may be induced by the slightest movement of the head, while, on the other iiand, the most copious vomiting may occur without provocation, and with very little nausea. Like headache, the vomiting is paroxysmal, and indeed the two are often combined, such attacks, it may be, lasting days, or even weeks, to be followed by periods of complete cessation. In other instances a severe attack of headache culminates in vomiting, it may be with com- plete relief of the pain. The vomiting is not related to the ingestion of food, though it, of course, frequently happens that the attack comes on at that time. The appetite remains natural, and the tongue is usually clean, though in some cases it is furred, more especially when vomiting has been going on for some time. Although it may be a symptom of tumour in any situation, vomiting is most frequent and severe in subtentorial tumours; indeed this symptom is rarely absent in these cases. Optic Neuritis.—This sign occurs in a large proportion of cases of intracranial tumour. Though not so common as headache, it is not often absent through the whole course of the malady, and is of much greater value in dia- gnosis than headache or any of the other general symptoms, all of which may be met with in hysterical aflections, whereas optic neuritis is positive proof of organic disease. So important is the detection of optic neuritis that an ophthal- moscopic examination should habitually be made, at least in every case in which severe headache is a symptom. Both eyes are usually affected, unilateral neuritis being a rare condition, but inequality in the degree of neuritis on the two sides is not so infrequent; moreover, the neiu'itis may begin and remain limited to one eye for some time before the other is also affected. Marked optic neuritis may exist without diminu- tion in the acuity of vision or limitation of the visual fields ; but with the development of con- secutive atrophy there is progressive loss of sight. The acute process may reach its maxi- mum in a few weeks, while in other cases it takes many months to do so. Tumours \n all situations are not equally prone to produce optic neuritis; those which press upon some pai't of the convexity of the cerebral hemispheres, espe- cially where the growth spreads itself out more or less flat, are less liable to do so than those which infiltrate the brain. So, too, absence of optic neuritis is relatively frequent in tumours of the crura cerebri, corpora quadrigemina, pons, and especially the medulla oblongata. As a rule optic neuritis is only of value in the general diagnosis of cerebral tumour, but intense double optic neuritis of rapid onset with marked