ALCOHOL 91 Dyspepsia.—The successful management of a delicate digestion is often a question of the right proportion of whisky or brandy, or of a suitable choice of wine. In prescribing wine for dyspepsia it is even more essential than for other condi- tions not to be content with vague directions, sucli as "Claret" or "Hock," but to specify the kind, and to insist upon quality. For rheumatic subjects malt liquors are the worst form of stimulant. Whisky, being the least prone to aggravate the tendency, has lieen credited by the laity with a preventive virtue. In acute rheumatism alcohol is not prescribed except for hyperpyrexia and severe comj^lica- tions. Subacute rhemnatism is also best ti'eated without it. In chronic rheumatism the lighter red wines witli meals are often indicated, and in old and debilitated subjects additional stimula- tion may be needed at other times. hi rheumatoid arthritis with debility and anaemia stinndants are wanted and are always beneficial ; but in the gouty and in the rheu- matic varieties their effects need to be watched and a careful selection has to be made. The development of gout and of its symptoms is favoured by alcohol, which should be avoided in the acute stage. But various complications, chiefly the gastro-intestinal and the cardiac, may from time to time call for it; and in advanced cases, with enfeebled digestion and energy or with cachexia, the need may be a permanent one. Since many who are gouty cannot be prevailed upon to abstain, we should guide their selection of a stimulant. Genuine spirits are probably least harmful, and in prescribing whisky as the exclusive drink we save the patient constant risks from unsuitable wines. All sweet, spirituous, or imperfectly fermented wines, such as champagne, are detrimental. Among the lighter kinds those which act as diuretics on the patient will probably best agree (Burney Yeo). The geographical dis- tribution of gout is a useful guide ; it prevails iu Burgundy much more than in tlie Bordeaux district, and it is uncommon in tlie Rhine country. Light hock or Moselle is thus most likely to suit; claret occupies an intermediate position between Burgundy and hock, and may sometimes lie allowed, but in this group the variety is greater and selection more necessary. Similarly gout has always been comparatively rare in the North, and in Scotland and Ireland, where spirit is the popular beverage, and the consmnption of ale and stout much less than in the South. The cider-growing districts are also relatively free from gout. In dinbetes the choice is restricted to \\n- sweetened spirits or absolutely dry wines. Alcohol in some form is generally needed, not only in the acute diabetes of the young, but in the more chronic form of the affection in middle life. Though it may be of little vicarious use in the place of the carbohydrates, it is a stimu- lating help to digestion. Light clarets which contain little sugar, or the still Rhine and Moselle wines, may be given with advantage for their ha^matinic properties. In gouty glycosuria they may also be allowed ; but whisky is more generally suitable, and the diuretic properties of unsweetened gin are less open to objection than in genuine diabetes. In the severe com- plications of diabetes, such as pneumonia, gan- grene, and coma, bi'andy is the best stimulant and should be administered freely. In diabetes insipidus, alcohol, even in small quantities, acts, according to Ralfe, like coffee in increasing the diuresis. But whilst avoiding it as a rule we must not forget that the nutri- tional treatment of the disease is of the first importance. In all wasting affections, when alimentation fails, alcohol is our last food and support, and even in those visceral diseases which are the result of its abuse, it ceases then to be regarded as a poison. External uses of alcohol.—Owing to its anti- septic, astringent, and detergent properties, alcohol is of considerable service in various conditions. Thus in strained and swollen joints, muscles, or tendons, and in cases of headache, very considerable relief may be obtained by its use as an evaporating lotion. It may be used alone or in combination with such varieties as vinegar, ammonium chloride, or the like. Alco- hol 10 parts, amnion, chloride 2 parts, vinegar 6 parts, and water 60 parts, make a very valu- able evaporating lotion. It may be perfumed, if desired, as in the well-known Eau de Cologne. The hardening properties of alcohol may also be made use of for tlie prevention of lied-sores (q.v.), or for the treatment of tender feet, often accompanied by chilblains. For the latter a small foot-bath—one-third metliylated spirits, and two-thirds water—may be very serviceable. Alcoholic Insanity. Etiology ....... 92 Clinical Types . . . . .92 PATHOLOliV ...... 94 Treatment ...... 95 Alcoholic insanity is properly regarded as an incident in the development of alcoholism, and not seldom the progressive disease is perma- nently interrupted by the mental attack. The most dramatic forms of alcoholic insanity are delirium tremens and mania a potu. These are considered in special articles. Dipsomania, which is often spoken of as if it were an alco- holic disease, should have the restricted mean- ing which refers to the constitutional state in which the patient manifests an original and insistent crave for alcoholic stimulation. There are other forms of insanity or of mental per- version which are sometimes described as alco- holic insanity. But in this work we restrict