339 THE AXILLA Free incision is the only sound and satisfactory line of treatment. The arm being fully ab- ducted, a long and deep incision should be made, the point of the knife being directed towards the inner wall of the axilla, and its ))ack towards the outer wall, where lie the princij^al vessels and nerves. When the deep fascia has been freely divided, the forefinger must be thrust in and the abscess cavity thoroughly explored, and all intersecting bands broken down. In this way it is impossible to overlook, as has been done by Hilton's method, a second abscess situated in the humeral fossa. The sac should now be freely irrigated and its walls gently scraped with a flushing scoop until no more disintegrated tissue can be removed. Thorough disinfection with iodoform emulsion follows, and an attempt should be made to obtain primary union by immediate suture. Acute Cellulitis occurs as the result of direct inoculation of a wound with the streptococcus pyogenes, or, as more frequently happens, by continuous extension from the arm. It pre- sents the features common to all such acute inflammations: severe constitutional disturb- ance, redness and oedema of overlying skin, rapid infiltration and brawny induration of the parts, high fever and its accompanying symp- toms. Immediate free incision must be made to relieve tension, and limit sloughing and burrowing along the fascial planes; while con- tinuous irrigation with a warm antiseptic solu- tion is the most efficacious method of local treatment. Strength must be maintained by nourishment, tonics, and stimulants, especially in (li'liilitated subjects. Unless sloughing is limited by early incision, extensive and deep adhesions are likely to form during recovery, and to interfere materially with the subsequent mobility of the parts. Tumours.—Those occurring in the axilla may be grouped into three classes—(a) those belong- ing to the infective granulomata which include syphilis and tubercle; (5) those originating primarily in the region; and (c) secondary extensions of malignant growths. (a) When primary syphilitic infection occurs on the fingers or hands, the characteristic indurations are met with in the axilla, viz. nmltiple painless, extremely hard, slightly en- larged, easily separable, and freely movable glands. In tuberculous adenitis the enlarge- ment is more marked, and the irregularly lobu- lated and caseating glands soon become matted together into a dense, indistinguishable mass, deeply fixed and adherent to the overlying tissues. (b) Accessory mannnie have repeatedly been found in the axilla, either single or symmetrical, and in many cases functionally active. Lipoma is common, as also lymphadenoma and lympho- sarcoma, originating in the lymphatic glands. Primary carcinoma is rare, though one case has come under the writer's notice. Notwithstand- ing the numerous sebaceous glands in the pai't, sebaceous cysts are almost unknown. This is probably due to the free movement of the arm aiding mechanically the expulsion of the secre- tion, and thus preventing blocking of the ducts. (c) The most important tumours met witli surgically are undoubtedly the secondary malig- nant growths. These are most frequently cancerous, following the lymph-paths from the breast; but soft, rapidly-growing, round-celled sarcomata may also cause early glandular infec- tion, a fact which even yet is not sufficiently recognised. In all operations for the removal of tumours from the axilla, it should be remembered that the point of greatest danger is the axillary vein, and that no danger is comparable to that of working in the dark. The first step in all cases should therefore be the thorough o^iening up of the space by free incision, and the second, complete exposure of the axillary vein. A useful guide to the vein is a small unnamed tributary, which, running upwards external to the lower border of the lesser pectoral muscle, enters the axillary vein at a right angle. In only one case has the writer found it entering the subscapular vein. If this vein is traced upwards and ligatcd close to the main trunk, the latter can be easily avoided, and all infected glandular or fatty tissue safely removed. Commencing at the highest point and working downwards, several inches of the axillary vein can be fully exposed, and by adopting this pro- cedure there is very little danger of damaging the vein, even in the most difficult dissections. Should a wound of the vein occur, the proper treatment is temporary closure above by pres- sure, and suture of the vessel wall with fine sterilised catgut; as, owing to the low pressure in the vein, there is pi'actically no tension on the stitches, and primary union quickly follows. It cannot be too strongly emphasised that in all these cases every particle of fat and fascia capable of infection must be removed, as the chances of non-recurrence are in direct ratio to the thoroughness with which the axillary con- tents have been cleaned out. III. In.juries of the Axilla The vein is the most supei-ficial of the axillary contents, and accordingly most liable to injury from womids. Above, it is so firmly attached to the fascia, binding it to the coracoid process and pectoralis minor, that, if wounded, it is prone to remain patent and allow the entrance of air into the circulation (itide "Veins"). As the result of puncture or rupture of the vessels, hrematoma may occur, forming a diffused fluctuating swelling, rapidly followed by dis- coloration of the superficial parts. Rupture is most likely to follow forcible and ill-advised