APPETITE 256 The desire for food depends ultimately upon tissue metabolism, a mechanism by which nature repairs the body waste. External cold, or a cold climate, by promoting muscular activity, increases metabolism, and with it the desire for food, while the converse conditions lead to the opposite result. Under pathological conditions increased metabolism may create no demand for food, owing to the intervention of other factors, and even in health this desire is subject to many influences which modify it in various ways. Civilised adults, accustomed to a regular supply of food at fixed hours, usually manifest a desire for food only at those times—in other words, their appetite has become a habit; but children and savages are always ready to eat. The smell or sight of food, or even the effect of imagination, may awaken the desire, while predilections of taste undoubtedly stimulate appetite, certain articles of food proving irre- sistible to many persons. On the other hand, mental preoccupation, surprise, or shock may hinder the perception of the desire for food, and habitual meal-times may tiius pass unnoticed. Loss OF Appetite is the common effect of any debilitating or depressing influence, although there are exceptions to this rule, of which the well-known excessive hunger of diabetes is per- haps the most striking. In all fevers and acute infectious processes appetite is diminished or lost in spite of increased metabolism. This loss of appetite has been by some attributed to the reduction of the digestive functions of the stomach ; but the most probable explanation is that the morbid poison depresses all the vital activities of the body, including the desire for food. In acute and chronic gastritis, where nausea is present, there may be temporary loss of appetite or distaste for food, amounting to loathing; but this is exceptional, and as a rule those patients who suffer from such affections of the stomach require to have their appetite controlled. Persistent distaste for food in chronic stomach disease is in fact a highly significant symptom of cancer of this organ ; but such a remark must be limited to the differ- entiation of a certain group of cases, viz. chronic dyspepsia in elderly persons. Total loss of appetite accompanied by pain after food and persistent vomiting is met with in a purely functional nervous affection, anorexia nervosa. The desire for food may be temporarily abolished by the use of alcohol, tea, tobacco, opium, cocaine, and other drugs, while the abuse of any of them may result in total loss of appetite. These effects vary with the individual and the dose, many persons being able to enjoy food while indulging in considerable quantities of one or other of these substances. The treatment of loss of appetite consists in the removal of the causes as far as they are i-emovable, especially in the improvement of the general health by the disuse of nerve poisons such as alcohol, tea, tobacco, opium, etc., and the increase of metabolism by the use of such remedies as change of air, mountain and sea air, cold baths, douches, massage, exercise, riding, cycling, walking, and the use of bitter tonics, for example, quinine, strychnine, quassia, calumba, and gentian. Increase of Appetite.—The desire for food is increased, as already mentioned, when meta- bolism is hastened, and although in acute in- fectious processes this relation, during the height of the fever process, is obscured, as con- valescence sets in appetite returns with all the energy needed to make good the loss that has taken place. In diabetes, as a rule, and less constantly in (^raves' disease, there is an ex- cessive craving for food. Unfortunately the appetite is too often great when metabolism is normal, and the intake of food is then largely in excess of the needs of the body. The causes of this unnatural hunger, or bulimia, are by no means clear. In children and others such a craving is sometimes associated with the presence of intestinal worms ; in women, with pregnancy and hysteria; in both sexes, with gout, epilepsy, neurasthenia, insanity, cerebral tumours, etc. Observation shows that there are at least two elements in these affections—(a) over-stimula- tion of the desire for food; and {b) absence or diminution of the sense of satiety. Some may doubt whether there is a sense of satiety, as distinct from the satisfaction of the desire for food. The writer believes that in the gouty form of bulimia there is this absence of a sense of satiety in spite of the ingestion of enormous quantities of food, and long after the desire for food has been appeased, for if these patients have the amount of food limited they suffer no discomfort. In neurasthenia, on the other hand, although there is frequent complaint of emptiness and craving, this feeling is very soon satisfied, and the quantity of food taken at one time is probably little if at all excessive. Excessive desire for food is probably the general rule in bulimia of purely nervous origin, although both factors may co-operate. Un- doubtedly savages, like the wild carnivora, gorge themselves whenever they have an opportunity, because they are unable to reckon with certainty upon their next meal, and the habit of eating enormous quantities survives the need for it. Among children, and in demented and imbecile persons, there is a reversion to this condition, so that it is often necessary for those who have charge of them to regulate their supply of food. During recent years the digestive functions of the stomach have been in innumerable cases carefully determined, and it is certain that there is no close correspondence between the depres- sion of these functions and the state of the appetite. In order to elucidate this point