BRAIN, SURGERY OF 507 removed, and that of a diameter not exceeding- ly inches or so, there is no necessity to take any precautions, as there is always a certain amount of bony outgrowth from the cut surface of the skull, which will partly close such an opening, and the risk of injury to the small exposed area left is trifling. Where a large surface is exposed, it is better to make the patient wear a celluloid or light metal plate in the cap, covering the hole in the skull, so as to avoid injury. By far the best plan, however, is to operate by the osteoplastic method devised by Wagner, in which a flap of bone is lifted up without being separated from its attachment to the scaljj, and in this way its vitality is ensured when it is replaced. Wagner's original method was to make a horse-shoe incision down to the bone over the part of the brain to be exposed. Then, with- out lifting the scalp flap from the skull, he applied the gouge to the bone at the bottom of this incision all round the horse-shoe. He then insinuated elevators under the bone and cracked the base of the bony flap through, thus lifting up a window composed of both skull and scalp adhering to one another. The bi'ain is thus exposed for the purposes of exploration or surgical interference, and the flap, being replaced at the end of the operation, adheres firmly, and being determined, an fi-shaped incision is so planned that through its base may come the best possible blood-supply to the flap. Fig. B.—The completed skin incision, with the i'oui' trephine openings in the skull, joined by saw cuts. Begin the J2 by making two small V-shaped incisions at each side of its base. Hold back with forceps these small flaps, and apply a |-inch trephine to each exposed area of bone, and take out the disc. Pass a director from one trephine opening to the other, between the pericranium and the skid I, and lift up the soft pai'ts off the bone sufficiently to make a small tunnel, along which a saw (shaped like a laminectomy saw, but finer) can be passed, with which the neck of the bony flap can be sawn through ; the dura should, mean- while, be protected from the saw by a second director passed from one trephine hole to the other hetioeen tJie skull and the dura mater. The V-shaped incisions are then joined by the curved part of the incision, so as to complete the il; bleeding may be con- veniently stopped from the flap itself by applying a clamp (such as Makin's in- testinal clamp) across the neck of the flap, along the " tvninel." The small trephine may now again be applied at the two upper corners of the Fig. a.—Method of operating by bone flap. The first incisions at base of 12. A director is paSScd between the skull n. The shaded portion between the two trephine openings indicates the 1 1 + *■ *• +1 1 +■(- "tunnel" along which the saw is applied to the neck of the bone flap. ^-^Cl ^^e ClUra SO aS tO protect tUe latter, the gap is most thoroughly and satisfactorily filled up. The writer has found by experiment on the dead body that a great deal of force is required to crack through the base of the bony flap (unless it is very narrow), and that splitting of the skull downwards towards the base may take place from such force being applied. In one case the split ran through the foramen spinosum, and would in the living body have given rise to troublesome bleeding. He has, therefore, devised the following modification of Wagner's operation, which is found to be satisfactory :— The size and position of the flap to be raised and with a Hey's saw, an electric motor saw, Gigli's wire saw, or with a rotatory saw attached to a dental engine, the bone is cut through from one trephine opening to the other along the line of the incision in the soft parts. The bony flap attached to the scalp may then be gently lifted up without any force, and the dura exposed. It is very important, in sawing through the bone, to apply the sav! ohliquely in such a wa}' that the flap of bone to be lifted up shall be bevelled at the expense of its under surface. In this way, when it is replaced, it is quite certain that it cannot become depressed below the stirrounding bone and cause irritation, while the stitches in the scalp hold the bone down in