480 BRAIN, AFFECTIONS OF BLOOD-VESSELS emerges from a larger one. This, of course, leads to a narrowing of the lumen of the smaller vessel, and it is at such a point that clotting is very likely to commence. Various conditions seem to favour an alteration in the blood, rendering it liable to coagulate. In old people it seems as if great or unusual exertion, or rather the state of exhaustion which is apt to follow such exertion, produced such a t)lood condition as renders it very liable to clot, for one of the commonest conditions in which thrombosis may occur is during the profound sleep which follows fatigue in those who are advanced in age. Chlorosis is another condition in which thei'e is great liabilitj' to coagulation. But it seems likely that in such a condition the clotting is more apt to occur in the veins or sinuses. During pregnancy and the puerperium and also diu-ing lactation clotting maj- occur, and the blood states peculiar to gout and diabetes also favour this change. After typhoid fever we know that clotting in veins is apt to occur, and such coagulation may also take place in the cerebral vessels. After diphtheria hemiplegia occasionally occurs, and this is probably the result of cerebral thrombosis, although by some embolism has been invoked as the more likely cause. Yet there is little doubt that in the majority of such cases, at all events, no evidence of anj* endocardial change can be discovered, either at the time of onset or subsequently. As to the local results of throml)Osis, it is likely that tt'dema is not nearly so apt to occur, possibly on account of the condition of the lilood and also on account of the disease of the A'essel wall. There is, of course, in thrombosis not the same readiness for collateral circulation to be established, because the affected vessel is probably in the centre of an area, all the vessels of which are similarly diseased, so that the recoA'ery from thrombosis is never so great as it may be from embolism occurring in yoiuig people. Besides oedema there is also venous turgescence, and consequently red softening, which may undergo changes resulting in yellow softening. But in some instances a widespread change takes place, especially if a large vessel have become affected, resulting in the formation of large yellow patches, the plaques javmes of the French, scattered through the affected area. Vascular Lesions of Syphilitic Origin.—Be- sides the thrombosis which occurs as the result of atheroma, we must also consider the con- dition arising as a result of the endarteritis of syphilis. This occurs in what is known as the tertiary stage, although one must be careful not to attach any time-limit to such a condition, for the writer has known it occur as early as six months after the primary infection, and certainly as late as ten years. So that by the tertiary stage we mean that stage of the disease at which new connective-tissue formations are apt to arise. The essential change in the vessels is proliferation of the intima, associated, as a rule, with some thickening of the adventitia. The essential process is considered elsewhere, but the effect of such overgrowth as concerns iis in this place is a narrowing of the lumen, it maj' be a complete oliliteration, of the vessel, and consequent interference with the nutrition of a certain ai'ea of the bi-ain. The usual resiilt is imdoubtedly hemiplegia; yet if such a vessel as the l)asilar be affected we must interference with the functions of all four limbs, of the facial muscles also, and perhaps of jaarts subserved by other cranial nerves on accoiuit of the interfer- ence with their nuclei to which such basilar disease leads. In mam- cases of so-called syphilitic hemiplegia the onset of the paralysis is sudden. Not uncommonlj' it is preceded for several days by severe headache, and the symptoms of general but indefinite illness, accompanied, it may be, with mental symptoms. Convulsion may also precede the onset of the paralysis, and this convulsion may be local. The paralysis at its onset may be accompanied by coma, which may last for several days, and, indeed, may result in death. Evidence of syphilitic disease elsewhere may be present, such as gummata in the liver, nodes on the bones, and such like. And there is very fre- quently to be detected marked thickening and hardening of the coats of the radial arteries, so that they feel like cords beneath the finger. The victims of such a condition are usually under forty, and in a condition of hemiplegia occurring in a man under forty without detect- able cardiac or renal disease, one is justified in regarding the condition as most likely to be the result of syphilis. Unless such a case is met with in a very early stage and submitted to the most energetic treatment, the hemiplegia is likely to be persistent; and even with the most energetic treatment such a result caimot always be averted. It will be easily understood that if a vessel lumen has been gradually narrowed until only a very small patent passage remains, and when clotting has actually taken place in this little aperture, cTitting off the blood-supply from the corresponding area of the brain, it is not likely that such a condition can be treated so as to lead to a re-establishment of the fimction of the vessel. Yet if such a vessel be small, it is quite possible, by energetic treatment in the early stage, so to affect other vessels which are similarly diseased, and whose occlusion will lead to mvicli more severe symptoms, to avert the threatened danger. If, however, such a happy result is not obtained, the affected area under- goes necrotic changes similar in character to those attending other kinds of vascular occlusion. These we have already described. In addition to the cases of hemiplegia already described other clinical pictures are encovintered. These are characterised mainly by the indefiniteness