AMYOTROPHIC LATERAL SCLEROSIS 129 Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis. See I'akalysiw. Anabolism.—The procoHs by means of which a .substance {e.g. protoplasm) becomes molecularly more complex and imstable by an ascending, synthetic, and constructive series of clianges. Katabolism is the converse process. Anacrotism.—A state of pulse in which (as revealed by the spliygmograph) the up stroke slopes instead of being perpendicular, and the summit of the curve is formed by the tidal wave; it is well seen in aortic stenosis. See Pulse {Interpretation of the Sphygmogram); also Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium ; and Physiology. Anaemia. Introduction . . . . . .129 Symptoms . . . . . .129 Causes . . . . . . .130 Condition of the Blood . . . .131 Diagnosis . . . . .131 Treatment . . . . . .131 See also Adrenal Glands {Addison s Disease); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels ; Chlo- rosis ; HyEMATURiA ; Headache ; Heart, Myo- cardium and Endocardium ; Leucocyth^mia ; Lung, Tuberculosis of ; Lungs, Vascular Disorders ; Malaria {Sequela;) ; Menstruation and its Disorders ; Milk {Koumiss Cure); Nephritis ; Nose {Adenoid Growths) ; Oxygen ; Parasites ; Pulse ; Rheumatism in Children ; Scurvy in Adults ; Spleen, Medical Affec- tions of ; Syphilis ; Trades, Dangerous {Lead- Poisoning) ; Toxicology {Plumbism); and Typhoid Fever. Introduction.—Anfeniia may best be defined by its popular synonym " poorness of blood." The three main constituents of the blood are the red corpuscles, the white corpuscles or leucocytes, and the plasma. Theoretically, one might apply the term ana?mia to any condition where one of the three was diminislied or deteriorated, where any two of them had suffered, or where all three were less in amovnit than usTial. It is but rarely, however, that we are in a position to estimate clinically the total amount of blood present in the body, and the methods which have been proposed for doing this are either impracticable or fallacious. In those cases, moreover, where we know from post-mortem observation that the amount of blood in the body is lessened, as for instance in pernicious ana;mia, the relation of cells to fluid is usually .so altered that we have no difficTilty in coming to a diagnosis of aiifemia on that ground alone. The changes which occur in the blood plasma^ are beyond doubt of extreme importance, Init luifor- tunately our methods of estimating them clini- cally are most imperfect, except in a few cases. vol. i With regard to leucocytes, their number in a given quantity of blood l)ears no necessary rela- tion to the amount of either red corpuscles or plasma. For instance, the blood after a hsemor- rhage and that in pernicious antemia have both a relatively watery plasma, and contain few red corpuscles, but in the former the leucocytes are practically always increased in number, in the latter always diminished. The leucocytes are most valuable aids to diagnosis of the cause of an auEemia, but changes in them do not enable us to conclude that anaemia is present. There remain only the red corjmscles, and it is to changes in these that the symptoms of antemia are mainly due, and by their diminution or deterioration that we diagnose the condition. The function of the red corpuscles is to carry hjemoglobin, the medium of respiratory inter- change, and each imit of normal blood contains a definite number of corpuscles, each of which is chai'ged with a definite amount of hfemoglobin. The unit in blood measurement is always taken as a cubic millimetre, and in that unit there should be in a healthy man .5,000,000 red corpuscles, in a healthy woman 4,500,000. In auEemic conditions there may be fewer red corpuscles to the cubic millimetre than normal, or, while the numbers remain unaltered, the individual corpuscles may contain too small a proportion of ha3moglobin. The net result in either case is that the amount of hsemoglobin in the unit of blood is lessened, and the respiratory interchange to that extent diminished also. Antemia is therefore practically a deficiency of hsemoglol lin. Symptoms.—There are many symptoms which are common, in varying degrees, to all antemias, whatever their cause may be. The most striking is pallor of the skin and mucous membranes. There are also a feeling of weakness and lassitude, shortness of breath, palpitation on slight exertion or excitement, a tendency to syncope; whilst in chronic ansemias there may also be dyspepsia, headache, neuralgia, and in females amenorrliea. Loss of weight is not usual, but the mus- cularity is generally slight and the weight is kept up by the laying on of fat. Of physical signs the most important are the condition of the blood, to which we shall return, and that of the heart and vascular system. The heart is often dilated, systolic murmurs may be heard in all the areas, especially at the base of the heart, and the l/i-uit de diahle in the veins at the root of the neck. These auscultatory signs are of special importance as their diminution or dis- appearance may enable us to judge of the favourable progress of a case. By far the most important point is the condition of the blood. The pallor, on which we are too much accustomed to rely, may be congenital, and depend on some peculiarity of the skin, or acquired, as is so often the case in people who have lived in the tropics, without the presence of any real anaemia. 9