BONE, DISEASES OF 426 diseases will be considered under their special headings. IxTRODUCTioN. — The diseases of bone are under the influence of the same pathological laws as obtain in the diseases of the soft parts. The morbid processes concerned originate and develop in the same way, and lead to the same results as in other tissues. Our conceptions and knowledge of the diseases which may affect the skeleton have been rendered cleai-er and more accurate by the demonstration of the bacterial origin of the great majority of them, the bacteria concerned being the same as give rise to similar diseases in other jmrts of the body. The special features of the diseases of bones, as to progress and results, depend very largely on the structural peculiarities of bone as a tissue, and the important changes which take place in the skeleton during the period of growth, and on the frequency with which the bacterial diseases occur in childhood, or at any rate before the growth of the skeleton is com- pleted, thereby entailing functional disturljances of the highest importance. The persistence and tenacity of bone diseases is another of their striking features. The surgical treatment of diseases of bone has l)een modified Ijy our conception of their frequent bacterial origin, and our capacity for carrying it out on Listerian principles has enabled us to interfere with a directness and freedom, and at such an early stage, that we are often able to prevent or mitigate the con- stitutional complications, and the local disastrous consequences which used to be so common, as is evidenced by the older hospital statistics, and by the specimens in museums. Bacterial Diseases.—It is convenient to in- clude among these the lesions of syphilis and other infective diseases, although the individual organisms concerned have not been satisfactorily demonstrated. Exclusive of the minority, in which the infection of the bone is the result of direct spread from a wound or other adjacent lesion, the diseases in this group result from the infection of the tissues of the bone by organisms carried to the latter through the arteries, and derived either from some pre-existing focus in the body (as is so commonly the case in tubercle), or resulting from the recent entrance of organisms through the skin, or one or other of the internal mucous surfaces. The marrow, especially in the interior of the long bones during the period of active growth, is known to be one of the most favourable of soils for the lodgment of bacteria ; the latter, when deposited from the blood in the marrow, may persist in a condition of potential vitality for indefinite periods, long after they have disappeared from the circulating blood from which they were derived. This would appear to be especially true of pyogenic organisms, of tubercle bacilli, and probably also of the infective agent of syjjhilis. The determination of disease in the bone, resulting from the bacterial lodgment in the marrow, will depend, both as to time of onset, severity and extent, on the initial viru- lence and number of the organisms, and upon the resistance of the tissues of the individual concerned, and upon the assistance of certain external conditions, such as trauma, strain, exposure to cold, which will act also as localis- ing factors in determining the seat and gravity of the lesion. The bacterial diseases of bone include all the common acute and chronic affections to which the skeleton is liable (excepting new growths), and are therefore also the cause of the common sequelae of disease in bone, familiarly known as caries and necrosis. Pyogenic Diseases of Bone.—These are the result of infection with pyogenic organisms. They are especially met with from birth up till the time the growth of the skeleton is com- pleted. They are predisposed to by exaggerated physiological activity at certain parts of the skeleton. They include not only all the con- ditions which are more obviously associated with the presence of pus organisms, e.g. acute suppurative osteomyelitis, pei-iostitis, epiphysitis, and chronic abscess of bone, Init also those which may run their course without the forma^ tion of pus, namely, those known as growth- fever, hyperostosis and sclerosis, quiet necrosis, serous or albuminous forms of periostitis and osteomj'elitis, certain bone cysts, and proliably also the inflammations of bone associated with acute rheumatism. It was formerly assumed that pyogenic organisms were only concerned in lesions of the bones which were attended with the formation of pus, and especially with those which ran an acute or subacute course. They include, however, every variety of lesion from congestion to suppuration. Although this knowledge of the wider influence of pyogenic organisms in the production of bone disease has simplified things from the pathological standpoint, it may be the source of greater difficulty in their clinical recognition, because the exact bacterial nature of many of the more chronic forms of bone disease may not lie recog- nised unless the infected tissues are submitted to special bacteriological investigation. Still, if such clinical recognition is not always possible, it is better on the whole to accept the difficulty or impossibility than to make the mistake which must have frequently been committed, of describing chronic bone lesions as of tuberculous or S3'philitic origin, when in reality they are the result of infection with pyogenic organisms. Inasmuch as the vast majority of pyogenic diseases of bone are the result of infection with the Staphylococcus aureus, these will be described in the first instance; those due to other pyogenic organisms will be dealt with later.