ARTERIES, LIGATURE OF 272 ing the thyroid gland. The superior thyroid, Ungual, and facial veins are, as in all operations in this region, very liable to be injured. The aneurysm needle may be passed from above downward. Ligature of the Facial Artery.—This, the third branch of the external carotid artery, may be exposed in the neck by an incision similar to that mentioned for the superior thyroid, but rather higher up. It must be borne in mind that frequently the facial and lingual arteries arise by a common trunk from the external carotid. The artery is, however, most readily ligated where it crosses over the lower jaw in front of the masseter muscle. Operation.—A vertical incision just in front of the masseter, dividing skin, fascia, and platysma, serves to expose the artery emerging from under cover of the submaxillary gland, and crossing the inferior border of the lower jaw. As the facial vein lies on its outer side the needle is passed from without inwards. Ligature of the Superficial Temporal Artery.—This vessel, one of the two terminal branches of the external carotid artery, con- tinues upwards in the course of the parent trunk, and crosses the zygoma between the condyle of the lower jaw and the tragus of the ear. Operation.—A vertical incision, one inch in length and \ inch in front of the tragus, will expose the artery. The tissues here are very dense and firm. The pulsation of the artery can be readily felt on the zygomatic arch. The needle is to be passed from behind forward in order to avoid the accompanying vein and the auriculo-tempoi'al nerve, which lie between the artery and the tragus. Ligature of the Subclavian Artery.—The subclavian artery on the right side arises from the bifurcation of the innominate artery; on the left side it springs from the arch of the aorta. In the lowest part of the neck on both sides it arches outwards above the pleura and behind the scalenus anticus. The first part of the vessel reaches from its origin to the internal border of the scalenus anticus muscle; the second part lies under cover of the same muscle; and the third part reaches from the external border of the scalenus anticus to the external margin of the first rib. The artery is tied almost without exception in the third part of its course. Ligation of the first part of the artery is among the most fatal operations in surgery, and from the records of past cases is manifestly unjustifiable. Ligation of the second part of the artery may be performed by extend- ing inwards the incision made for ligature of the third part, by incising transversely, or even completely dividing the anterior scalenus muscle. Ligation of the third part of the artery is the operation almost invariably per- formed. The more important relations of the third part of the subclavian artery are :— In front: subclavian vein on a lower level, the external jugular and its tributary veins. Above : cords of brachial plexus. Below : the first rib. Behind: the scalenus medius muscle, and, generally, the lowest cord of the brachial plexus. An important landmark is the outer margin of the stenio - cleido - mastoid, which almost exactly corresponds with the outer margin of the scalenus anticus muscle. Just external to this line, the artery may be securely compressed against the first rib. Operation.—To ligature the third part of the subclavian artery, the shoulder is depressed, and the head turned to the opposite side. The skin is now drawn down over the clavicle, and an incision is made along that bone from the outer border of the sterno-cleido-mastoid to the anterior border of the trapezius muscle. In making the incision thus, the external jugular vein is drawn under cover of the clavicle and avoids the risk of injury. When the skin resumes its former position the incision will lie well above the clavicle and directly over the artery. The deep fascia is now divided, particular care being taken to avoid all veins, especially the external jugular vein. If any vein cannot, however, be drawn aside, it must be divided between two ligatures. This is important, as, in case of injui-y to the external jugular, air may be siicked into it during inspiration. Guided by the finger, and using a dissector or dissecting forceps, the loose cellular and fatty tissue is now opened up, and the omo-hyoid muscle exposed and drawn up- wards. The outer margin of the anterior scalene muscle can now readily be defined, and if traced downwards will lead the operator to the scalene tubercle on the first rib, behind which lies the artery, which can be readily felt pulsating. The artery is now carefully isolated, and the aneurysm needle passed from above downwards and from behind forwards. It will be observed that this is not from the vein, accord- ing to the general rule, but as a matter of fact the great risk in passing the thread around the artery is not injuring the vein which lies in front and at a lower level, but of including in the ligature the lowest cord of the brachial plexus. There is some danger also of puncturing the pleura unless extreme gentleness be employed. Should it be necessary, owing, for example, to the wall of the vessel being unhealthy in its third part, to ligature the artery in its second stage, the scalenus anticus may be divided in its outer two-thirds and the second part of the artery ligated. Special care is necessary to avoid injury to the phrenic nerve which lies on the anterior aspect of the muscle. Collateral circulation after ligature of third part of subclavian artery is chiefly carried on by