AMASTIA 115 Amastia or Amazia.—Absence of the mauunary gland, often associated with defects of the pectoral muscles and ribs. Amaurosis.—Dimness of vision, or total blindness, in wliich no ophthalmoscopic lesions are discoverable. See Amblyopia. Amaurotic Idiocy.—See Mental De FICIENCY {Developmental Cases). Amblyopia. Lntuoductokv . . . . .115 Varieties . . . . . .115 Toxic 115 Functional and Reflex . . .119 Due to Changes in Optic Nerve . .120 Due to Cerebral Changes . . .120 Due to Defective Development . .120 See also Cerebellum, Affections of ; Cho- roid, Diseases of ; Colour Vision ; Diabetes Mellitus {Affections of the Eye); Hysteria in Childhood ; Nephritis ; Nose, Accessory Sin- uses ; Pregnancy, Affections of {Nervous System); Raynaud's Disease ; Retina and Optic Nerve ; Tabes Dorsalis ; Trades, Dan- gerous ; Typhoid Fever ; Ur/EMIa ; Vision, The Field of. Amblyopia literally means defective, weak, or blunted vision (u/x/^Ai'« = blunt, feeble, and While the term amaurosis (literally blindness; dfMavpos = obscure, blind) has now nearly become obsolete, aml)lyopia is still in connnon use. The former was for long applied to all cases of blind- ness, to account for which there was no visible change in the eye itself. Since the introduction of the ophthalmoscope, however, the various causes of amaurosis are mostly capable of being diagnosed. Consequently it is no longer the blindness, which is only a symptom, but the various diseased conditions of the retina, optic nerve, etc., which give rise to it, which form the basis of modern nomenclattire. For centuries, too, amblyopia has lieen the name used to designate defective vision, for which there did not e.xist any recognisable cause in any part of the eye. And although it must be con- fessed that the term is not infrequently some- what loosely employed, this must still be regarded as its i:)roper application. Just, however, as the ophthalmoscope lias so enlarged the capabilities of diagnosis as to render the term amaurosis only very rarely applicable, so it has very greatly curtailed the number of those conditions of de- fective sight which may now correctly be classi- fied as amblyopia. Yet there still remains a considerable group of cases. In this group, too, may be included cases in which more or less evident ophthalmoscopic changes are to be met with, which changes, nevertheless, are of them- selves insufficient to account for the symptoms observed, or first make their appearance later. No doubt a great many causes of amblyopia exist. Not infrequently it is by no means easy to feel sure of the cause. In much that has been written on the subject it is difficult to avoid the suspicion that not a few writers have ascribed many cases to causes which a more critical ob- server would hesitate to admit. Of such may be mentioned more particularly menstrual and uterine disordei's, pregnancy, lactation, etc. Without doubt, the frequency with which some change in the reproductive organs has been associated causally, not only with amblyopia, but with every conceivable form of eye disease, has been very greatly exaggerated. Such changes are of course so frequent that their coincidence, in some form or other, with amlilyopia in any particular case would lie at least as likely as not. We may classify the known and more jDrobable causes of defective vision which, in the sense of the definition given above, might probably lie diagnosed as amblyopia as follows :— A. Toxic amblyopia. B. Functional and reflex amblyopia. C. Amblyopia due to retro-ocular (orbital) changes in the optic nerve. D. Amblyopia due to cerebral changes. E. Amblyopia due to defective development. A. Toxic Amblyopia The poison which gives rise to amblyopia may be introduced from without, or may be elaborated within the body itself. The most important cases belonging to the first category are tobacco amblyopia and lead amblyopia, lint there are other less frequent causes of toxic amblyopia which may he referred to the same group. Of these may be mentioned bisulphide of carbon, quinine, salicylate of soda, morphia, santonin, and iodoform. The cases belonging to the second category present, on the whole, more transitory and less characteristic symp- toms. The commoner forms of self-poisoning in this respect are uraemia and the digestive disorders which give rise to megrim. Similar symptoms have occasionally been met with after diphtheria and other specific fevers. AVith re- gard to diabetes, which has been looked upon as a direct cause of central amblyopia, it is very doubtful whether there is here a self-poisoning in the true sense. The cases themselves are, however, important, and are discussed below. Tobacco Amblyopia.—This form of amblyopia is of very frequent occurrence. It is met with mainly amongst the working classes. It affects almost exclusively men. The amount of tobacco consumed either by smoking or chewing varies considerably. Most commonly the individvials affected do not smoke less than 3 oz. a week. Although smoking may have been indidged in constantly for many years, it is comparatively seldom that the characteristic symptoms make their appearance before the age of forty. It is