185 ANEURYSM connective tissue, throiigii the skin, or into the knee joint. The latter is a rare complication, and is characterised by pain and sudden dis- tension of the joint by fluid which often pulsates and is more or less reducible into the sac when the femoral artery' is controlled. It is not very uncommon to find a moderati^ hydrarthrosis when the sac pi'esses on and adheres clo.sely to the posterior ligament ; this does not pulsat(_\ Suppuration of the sac is rare. Diagnosis. — This is usually simple. The ordinary ditiiculties may be met with (p. 169) from bursal cysts, sarcomata or simple tuiuoui-s lying deep to or on the artery. Treatme7it. — It was usual to liegin with com- pression of one kind or another. Now, ligature is usually performed as the method of choice, either in Scarpa's space or Hunter's canal. The result of this, calculated from seventy-six modern hospital cases is: — sixty-four cures of the aneurysm (SB'l per cent) ; but of these seven (9'2 per cent) recovered after gangrene ; whilst another—in very feeble health at the start— had gangrene and died. In eight pulsation re- curred. In other words, 10■■5 per cent suffered from gangrene and one died ; and in another 10'5 per cent the operation failed to cure. It is probable that ligature of the popliteal will be more used in the future and with better results both as regards gangrene and failure. Perhaps excision or incision of the sac will prove the best treatment of all ; but it has not yet been fully tried. This operation may save a limb after rupture or after suppuration, when ligature might only add to the gravity of the case. Aneurysm of the Femoral Artery.—These are three to four times less common than popli- teal aneurysms, to which they rank next in point of frequency. Women rarely suffer. They are more frequent above than beneath the sartorius and are usually spontaneous. A good many arterio-venous comiiiunication.t—direct and indirect—from woinid have been described. Si/mptoi/is.—These are \cry clear and us\u\l. In form the sacs above the sartorius are usually rounded, beneath it flattened. The surround- ings not being unyielding the vein is not heavily pressed on as a rule ; and the nerves chiefly liable to pressure are the long saphenous and internal cutaneous. The course of these aneurysms is onward, but often somewhat slowly. Stationary aneurysms and spontaneous cure may occur, but are rare, especially the latter. Diagnosis.—Is simple as a rule. Difficulty may arise from the rare occurrence of an aneurysm upon a branch in the line of the artery. At St. Bartholomew's (Rep. '97) a young man with double aortic disease had a deep, ill-defined, hot, tender swelling in Scarpa's space over irhich the femoral pulsated : it was incised and clot turned out, when an aneurysm as large as a walnut in the profunda was found. Israel cut into another doubtful swelling and found it to be an aneurysm of the third per- forating. No aneurysm off the main line will affect the tibial pulse. This is the trunk upon which multiple aneurysms (2-4) have been most often observed. Symmetrical aneurysms may occur. Treatment. — Proximal digital compression may be tried if there is room without injuring the sac ; it has yielded good results. Macewen's first success with needling was in this situation. If ligature is chosen it should be applied close above the aneurysm, wherever it may be. Should it fail, as it not uncommonly has, ex- cision can be proceeded with. This shoidd be done at once in diffuse aneurysm. The opera- tion is at its easiest in this region; and the restdts have been quite satisfactory. Jnouinal Aneurysm.—llio-femoral aneurysms, developed above and below Poupart's ligament, are necessarily taken together. Thej' are often excited by strain or some more direct injiuy. This is the commonest seat (outside the lungs) of aneurysm by erosion from spread of inflam- mation (chiefly from buboes) to the coats of the artery ; but such cases are rare. Symptoms.—A bilobed swelling divided by Poupart sometimes more above, again more below it—having all the characters of aneurysm —enlarging rapidly in the iliac fossa, less rapidly beneath the fascia of the thigh, com- pressing the femoral vein early, and therefore causing fedenia and tending specially towards gangrene ; irritating the genito-cnu-al and per- haps other nerves, and causing much pain by tension behind Poupart. It tends to rupture externally, or into the iliac fossa. Erosion of pelvic bones and rupture into the hip-joint have been recorded. Cure by sloughing has also occurred. Diagnosis.—Is often simple, but may l)e diffi- cult when it is chiefly iliac. Pulsating sarcoma of the hip-bone resembles it when typical. When a fluid aneurysm ceases to pulsate, it may be taken for a chronic abscess ; when it becomes inflamed, for an acute abscess. Treatment.—Compression has been tried by lever on the common iliac and by the aortic tourni(}uet—often coupled with an elastic band- age up to the aneurysm or some other form of distal compression. Of seven cases the results were two cures, one early recurrence, three failures, and one ruptured sac. Sixteen cases of proximal compression yielded three cures without accident (Delbet). Transperitoneal ligature of the external iliac has not been done many times, but has yielded favourable results so far. When not forced to go so high Cooper's method may be used. The great danger after either of these ligatures for a large, possibly diff'use aneurysm, is gangrene. This occurred thrice in sixteen recent cases (Delbet) with two