ASCITES 289 Recognition of the ( Iausb.—When ascites is a symptom of disease of lieart, kidney, or blood, the diagnosis seldom presents any ditfiuiilty. When by exclusion of these causes it becomes clear that the ascites is due to some local abdominal disorder, a diagnosis is ofteti difficult and sometimes imjjossible. In approaching the question it is well in the first instance to elimi- nate cases which present evidence of acute peritonitis. These cases are mainly of perfora- tive origin, tliough occasionally a tuberculous peritonitis is so acute as to come into the class. In this class the abdomen is much distended, but this is due rather to tympanites than to ascites, and the fluid is usually small in amount, save when it is purulent, or when it is increased by the extravasation of stomach-contents, bile, or urine. In these cases the onset is sudden and severe. There is pyrexia, abdominal pain and tenderness, loss or impairment of the ab- dominal respiratory movement, thirst, vomiting, tendency to dryness of mouth and tongue, in- creased frequency of pulse, great constitutional disturbance and collapse. The picture is familiar and easily recognised. As the next step, a decision must be made among the various forms of portal obstruction, and subacute and chronic peritonitis of simple, tuberculous, or carcinomatous origin. For this purpose there is required a systematic examina- tion, based on a knowledge of the natural history of these several conditions. In some cases a certain diagnosis cannot be reached in an earl}' stage. From the statistical side we learn the predominance of tul)erculosis, cirrhosis, and carcinoma as the cause of ascites in early years, middle life, and old age respectively. But it must be remembered that cirrhosis may be the cause at any period of life, and in actual practice it is generally uppermost in the thoughts. On inquiry into the history of the patient, attention must be directed to such points as alcoholic excess, tuberculosis in the parents or other members of the family, syphilis (acquired or inherited), and previous syu)]>toms pointing to new growth of stomach, bowel, ovary, or elsewhere, such as pain, vomiting, constipation, diarrhea, hajmatemesis, mehena, and wasting. As regards the first point, it nuist be remembered that it is not very uncom- mon to meet with cases of cirrhosis, especially in young subjects, in which no suspicion of alcoholic excess can arise. The mode of onset nuist be closely examined, but in all the instances under consideration there is often the same gradual onset, and the history may reveal notiiing more than a gradual failure of health and a steadily-increasing abdomen. A more acute onset points to tuberculosis. From a general view of the patient further information can be gained. Jaundice, for example, is uncommon in the hol)-nailed form of cirrhosis with which ascites is more particularly VOL. I associated. It may be due to syphilitic affec- tion of the liver. It is almost always present and intense with a primary carcinoma of duo- denum, or head of tlie pancreas. It is generally present with carcinoma of the gall-bladder, and occurs in about 50 per cent of cases of secondary carcinoma of the liver, more especially when the glands in tiie portal fissure ai'e aft'ected. With a primary carcinoma of the liver ascites is found in about a third of the recorded cases, while jaiuidice is compai'atively uncommon. This condition, however, is of such rarity that it hardly enters into a clinical consideration. The facial aspect may be of importance. In tuber- culous peritonitis the face is apt to be pale, pinched, and drawn, while in cirrhosis it is commonly thin and sallow, with perhaps an icteric tinge of the conjunctivfe, and usually dilated capillaries on the cheeks. In carcinoma there is generally pallor, and the skin, in a late stage, becomes white and satiny. Cirrhosis and tuberculous peritonitis are commonly attended with wasting, but in neither case, except in late stages, is it so marked as in the case of carcinoma. Syphilitic aft'ection of the liver, on the other hand, has little effect in this direction. The neck must be examined for tuberculous glands or scars, and evidence of tuberculosis in lungs, pleura, testicle, and elsewhere must be sought for. Similarly, the teeth, eyes, bones, and skin must be examined for indication of inherited syphilis. The inguinal glands may be enlarged in carcinoma of peritoneum. In tuberculous peritonitis the blood shows the changes of slight secondary anjcmia without alteration in the number of leucocytes. There is but little alteration in the blood in cirrhosis, though in late stages there is often anaemia and a colour-index below par. This is the case also in an advanced stage of carcinoma, but here some degree of leucocytosis is often present, the number of white cells ranging between 10,000 and 30,000 per cubic millimetre {vide " Leu- cocytosis "). Though albuminuria may occur with extreme ascites of any origin, its continued presence points rather to cirrhosis or chronic peritonitis. Continued pj-rexia is evidence in favour of tuberculous peritonitis; but it is not unknown in association with gumma or car- cinoma of the liver. In tuberculous peritonitis there is often some general abdominal pain and tenderness. This is not present in the other conditions, though occasionally in cii'rhosis attacks of pain over liver or spleen may result from a local peritonitis. Superficial veins often become visible in all forms of ascites, (ireat enlargement of veins around the umbilicus, or between the lunbilical level and the costal margin, points sti'ongly to portal obstruction. Large accumulations of fluid are always suggestive of portal obstruction or simple chronic peritonitis, and in the latter case, owing to shortening of the niesenterv, the whole surface 19