479 BRAIN, AFFECTIONS OF BLOOD-VESSELS the brain. A diseased or roughened vessel wall may also give rise to the formation of a clot upon it, and this clot, or a part of it, may Vjecorne detached and lead to the obstruction of a smaller vessel more distant from tiie heart. Disease of certain kinds in the pulmonary vein may result in a clot passing from it into the circulation. In diseased conditions of the lung, also, septic particles may pass into the circula- tion through the pulmonary vein or its branches, and may reach the brain and there set ujj tuberculous disease, either meningitis or abscess. It is well known that an old-standing empysema is one of the most common causes of abscess, and it is by some such mechanism as that just alluded to that such an abscess is formed. Although as a rule it may Vje that the other conditions enumerated as giving rise to em- bolism result in non-infective emboli, it will l)e understood that if the source of an emliolus be a septic one, for example, if the endocarditis be of the ulcerative variety, the embolus from sucli a source may, and often does, set up changes at the spot at which it lodges in the brain which depend iipon its septic character, and are quite independent of the usual mechanical eti'ects. It has been stated that an inflammatory focus in the pelvis may give rise to embolism, yet it nnist be unlikely that any particle large enough to caTise mechanical ol)struction in a cereliral vessel could traverse tlie jjulmonary capillaries imcaught, although it is true that these capillaries are larger than those, for example, in the brain. In certain cases, also, such a condition of cerebral eml:>olism has arisen from some focus on the other side of the lieart, on account of the acci- dental fact that the patient had a patent foramen ovale. Even without the interposition of such an anatomical peculiarity it is possible that minute organisms might traverse the pulmonary capillaries, but any subsequent cerebral complications would lie more likely the result of infective inflannnation rather than actual mechanical obstruction. Yet in most cases of such disease it is likely that the symptoms suggesting embolus are the result either of an embolism from a diseased cardiac valve, or of thrombosis occurring as a result of one or other of the conditions to be presently enumerated. Local Results of Eniholism.—Locally, embolism results, in the first place, in local anfemia. There is also oedema of the surromiding part, probably interfering with the function of a larger part of the brain than ultimately turns out to l»ediseased. There is also venous engorgement constituting the condition known as red softening. In some cases the collateral circulation seems to be such as to prevent any permanent impairment in the nutrition of the parts supplied by the lilocked vessel, for recovery from a conditi(jn jjresumably of embolism in many cases is both rapid and complete. In the cases, however, in which such recovery does not take place, changes occur in the area supplied by the affected vessel result- ing in the formation of a cyst with fluid contents containing blood crystals. Local changes also result in the vessel which is blocked. If the plug be of a septic or irritating character, in- flammatory changes occur at the point where the eml:)olus lodges, and these changes may spread into other vascular areas. If the vessel wall is weak or diseased, there may also result on the cardiac side of the plug the formation of an aneurysm, and it is not unlikely that in cases of embolic hemiplegia, in which death occurs suddenly some months after the first attack, this sudden fatal result is due to the rupture of such an aneurysm. The middle cerebral artery, or one of its l)ranches on the left side of the brain, is the vessel most liable to suft'er. The reason why eml)olism is more common on the left than on the right side of the brain probably is because an embolus may enter the left carotid more easily. Tlie symptoms of emliolism are jjaralysis, which depends for its character upon the vessel affected. But the degree of paralysis, in most cases, is probably more severe at the commence- ment than it turns out to l)e sul:)sequently, on account of the temjiorary impairment through wdema of a larger area of the brain than that primarily affected. Consciousness is usually, but not invariably lost; when it is not lost, it is prolialjly because the vessel affected is a minute one. It is not often that the profound coma attending htemorrhage is produced. Of course the chief indication in differential dia- gnosis between embolism and other conditions is to be found in the presence of some condition likely to give rise to embolism, especially cardiac valvular disease, although it must also be re- membered that such a condition of cardiac disease does not necessarily exclude a diagnosis of haanorrhage or of thromljosis. As to the clinical condition arising from embolism, that will be described when we have considered thrombosis. II. Arterial Ocvluslon or Throtnbosis. — The two conditions which have to lie considered are diseased A'essels and morliid blood states. Atheroma of A'essels is by far the most comnK)n condition associated with thromliosis. It is, of coxu-se, a senile or degenerative change, and on accoinit of the roughening which takes place in the wall this is apt to become the focus from which coagulation may spread, and so become the starting - place of complete occlusion. Of coiu'se tills mechanism will only become effective under conditions in which the blood-stream is slow, or in which the blood has undergone certain changes which render it more lialile to coagulate. The small cerebral vessels are peculiarly liable to suffer from atheroma, and the point at which the disease is particularly apt to start is that point at which a small vessel