ASPHYXIA 306 number, it is improbable that our efforts will be successful, and though there are records of cases in which heroic perseverance for hours have been rewarded with the recovery of the patient, an hour may be looked upon as the limit of useful effort, except in cases of poisoning, when the resources of a well-trained police force or am- bulance brigade may be requisitioned to main- tain the treatment for a much longer period. In some cases, which occur in hospital, in which the heart's action is well sustained, though there seems little tendency to spontaneous respiration, it might be well to do tracheotomy, and apply the respiration apparatus of the laboratory, with which the artificial respiration might be maintained for much longer periods. There is no experience more distressing than a failure to continue artificial respii'ation while the heart still beats. In new-born children, which do not quickly react, it is worth while to reconsider the circumstances of the delivery with a view to the diagnosis of a probable cerebral injury. Directions for Special Conditions.— New- horn children. — Clear the pharynx of slime before beginning any method. If any one can hold the feet for you, Silvester's method is a good one, otherwise use Buist's method or Schultze's. Alternate plunging in hot and cold water is an excellent stimulus, but each should be momentary. Schultze's method cannot be applied until the umbilical cord has been divided. (In the middle of last century it was a common practice to lay the placenta on the child's belly, and last year Stringer recommends the exposui'e of the placenta to the air as the rational treatment of asphyxia. Like every other he is able to adduce plenty of clinical evidence of success.) Drowning.—As in this condition the trachea often contains frothy mucus, it is well to begin with a forcible expiratory movement. Then go on with Silvester's method. It adds to the effect of this if the feet are held. In asphyxia due to irrespirable gases we need to use the most vigorous means at our disposal for the introduction of air. This is especially the case with carbon monoxide (after-damp), which replaces the oxygen in its combination with haemoglobin. Chloroform inhalation is apt at several stages to be complicated with cessation of respiration. The special treatment to be adopted is described under " Anaesthetics." Aspirator, Uses of. Apparatus . . . . . ' . 306 Technique ...... 306 Applications 307 1. Diagnostic. 2. Therapeutic. See also Liver, Hydatids of {Aspiration); Pericardium, Diseases of ; Pleura, Affections OF, Surgical. The method of exploring fluid - containing cavities, known as aspiration, was introduced into surgery by Dieulafoy in 1869. The principle is to bring the contents of the cavity into communication with a " previously formed vacuum," through the medium of a hollow needle, in order that the negative pressure of the vacuum may effect the withdrawal of the fluid. Apparatus.—Of the many forms of aspirator which have been devised, those of Dieulafoy and Potain are the most generally acceptable. Dieulafoy''s instrument consists of a strong glass syringe, fitted at the nozzle with a two-Avay tap. One passage connects the cylinder, by means of a rubber tube, witli a terminal hollow needle fitted with a stop-cock. The other, also bearing a stop-cock, carries the fluid aspirated away from the cylinder. If both stop-cocks be closed and the piston withdrawn, a vacuum is formed in the syringe, into which the fluid is sucked when the needle has been introduced into the cavity to be tapped, and its stop-cock opened. The stop-cock of the needle-tube is now closed and that of the outlet-tube opened, so that the fluid may escape into a receptacle. This process is repeated till the cavity is emptied. This instrument may be so con- structed that the exhausting syringe merely starts a syphon action, by means of which the fluid is evacuated. In Potain's aspirator, by means of an ex- hausting syringe, a vacuum is formed in a glass bottle, which is brought into communication with the fluid to be withdrawn through a trochar and cannula attached to a flexible rubber tube. By an arrangement of stop-cocks the trochar can be withdrawn without the admission of air, and the vacuum permitted to act on the fluid. Should the bottle become filled, or the pressure in it cease to be negative, by the use of the appropriate stop-cocks, it may be removed, emptied, and re-exhausted without withdrawing the cannula or admitting air into the cavity. Potain's instrument, although a little complicated, is perhaps the best aspirator for general use. Technique. — Whichever apparatus is em- ployed, it is essential that absolute asepsis of every part of it be ensured. Before introducing the needle, the skin of the part is purified by washing with soap and water, turpentine or lysol (1 in 100), and carbolic lotion (1 in 20). The apparatus is tested to see that it is in work- ing order by running a stream of antiseptic fluid through it. After re-establishing the vacuum, the needle is lubricated with an antiseptic oil, and smartly passed through the skin. In using Dieulafoy's apparatus, so soon as the needle-point is buried in the tissues it is con- nected with the vacuum by turning the appro- priate stop-cock, in order that fluid may flow whenever it is reached, and to avoid the error