BRAIN: CEREBELLUM, AFFECTIONS OF 529 is situated on the side on which they are affected. Olfactory Nerves.—Anosmia is a symptom in some cases of cerebellar tumour, and it may be unilateral, in which case the loss of smell usually corresponds to the side on which the tumour is situated. The possible mode of origin of this defect has been discussed in the article on tumours of the brain. Optic Nerves.—In no region of the brain is a tumour so commonly attended with impairment of vision except when the optic tracts or chiasma are involved; but this is probably only due to the frequency and severity of optic neuritis, with post-neuritic atrophy, in cases of cerebellar tumour. Ocular Nerves.—As squints may depend on more than one cause in cerebellar affections, it is important to recognise what ocular displacements may be the outcome of pressure on the nerves supplying the eye muscles. That the eyes may be turned towards the opposite side after an acute lesion of one-half of the cerebelhmi in man, I have satisfied myself by personal observa- tion of a case of abscess of the cerebellum, and of another patient in whom some cerebellar tissue was removed from one lateral lobe of the organ in an attempt to enucleate a tumour. But it appears equally clear that in more chronic cases, such as tumours of the cerebellum, ocular displacements are the result of pressure on one or other of the nerves supplying the eye muscles, or it has l:)een suggested that pressure on the corpora quadrigemina may account for some of the squints met with. The external rectus of one or other or of both sides is most commonly paralysed, and when the defect is unilateral the muscle on the side of the tumour is that which usually suffers, though it is not always so, as the opposite external rectus may be the first to succumb. The internal rectus on the same side as the tumour has been affected alone in a few cases, and it has also been affected on the same side in conjunction with the external rectus of the opposite side, the joint effect being turning of both eyes towards the side of the lesion, with inability to turn them to the opposite side. In other instances the patient has been luiable to turn the eyes to the side of the lesion, or both eyes have been tiu-ned away from that side in consequence of weakness of the external rectus on the side of the lesion, and of the internal rectus on the opposite side. In estimating the value of the lateral displacements of the globes as indications of the probable seat of the tumour, it must be remembered that inability to turn the eyes towards the side of lesion may be a consequence of secondary extension of the growth of the pons. Defects of upward and dowuAvard movements of the globes have been noted, as has partial ptosis, sometimes on the same side as the tumour, but in otlier cases on the opposite side. Practicallj' complete ophthalmoplegia has VOL. I been met with in a few cases, but exophthalmos is rare. Nothing constant has been determined with regard to the pupils, for though commonly unequal, the larger pupil is sometimes on the same side as the tumour, sometimes on the opposite side. What has been said as regards the frequency of blindness in patients with cerebellar tumour prepares us for the number of cases in which the pupils are dilated, and in- active or sluggish to light. Nystagmus is a common symptom of cerebellar tumours. The cases that allowed of my studying ocular dis- placements in acute lesions of the cerebellum in man also enabled me to determine that the nystagmus corresponds in every particular with that which results from experimental ablation of one lateral lobe of the cerebellum, and that it consists in coarse lateral nystagnoid jerks, most mai'ked when an attempt is made to turn the eyes towards the side of the lesion. No such uniformity obtains, however, in regard to the results of tumours of the cerebellum, for in addition to any rotatory or irregular oscillation that may be present, it frequently happens that the lateral nystagnms is most marked when the eyes are turned away from the seat of the lesion. Fifth Nerves. — The fifth nerve is not un- commonly affected in cases of cerebellar tumour, the resulting motor or sensory disturbance being on the same side as the tumour, though the defects have been bilateral in exceptional cases. Antesthesia of the cornea is sometimes present on the affected side, and neuro-paralytic oph- thalmia may result. Moreover, it is probatsly through the agency of pressure on these nerves that loss of taste is induced in a few cases. The affection of taste has usually been unilateral, and has corresponded to the side on which the tumour has been found. Facial Nerves.—Unilateral facial paralysis or paresis is common, and, as Dr. Beevor has pointed out, evidence of implication of the seventh and eighth nerves indicates that the growth is probably in the anterior part of the posterior fossa as opposed to its being in the so-called cerebellar fossa. In the large majority of cases the facial weakness corresponds to the side of the tumour, though in some it is the opposite facial nniscles that have been weak. Auditory Nerves.—In addition to the deafness which results from pressure on the auditory nerves, a similar result may be the outcome of pressure on the auditory tracts, and Dercum further suggests that in some cases it is due to pi'essure on the posterior corpora quadrigemina and internal geniculate bodies through which the auditory tracts are supposed to pass in their course to the brain. The deafness even when bilateral may be more marked on one side than on the other, and is counnonly unilateral, in which case it corresponds to the side of the tumour. Hypoglossal. — Paralysis of one side of the 34