ABDOMEN, CLINICAL INVESTIGATION OF 3 may look perfectly healthy, even when one of its organs is extremely diseased, but as a rule a lesion within its cavity is accompanied by some change—it may be a slight one—in the colour, form, or movements of its surface. On the other hand, the abdomen may look abnormal when its contents are healthy, in consequence of some general disease, or of a lesion in another part of the body. Whenever possible, the patient should Ije first examined in the standing posture, tlie abdominal walls being carefully examined be- hind as well as in front. This metiiod is of great value, especially as regards tlie question of symmetry, and should always precede examination of the patient when lying down. The chief points to be observed are :— (1) The shape and size of the abdomen. A uniform general enlargement may be due to ascites, to meteorism, or to a great enlargement of a single organ, as of the uterus in advanced pregnancy. A local swelling may be caused by distension of the stomach or a portion of the bowel, to the presence of a new growth, to enlargement of the spleen, or to a distended bladder. A diminution in volume, a flatness or retraction of the abdomen, is sometimes noticeable, as of the upper part when there is obstruction at the cardiac end of the stomach. (2) lite movements of the abdominal jt^ar/efcs. In addition to the movements of respiration, the following may be visible :—Peristaltic con- tractions of the stomach or intestines; pulsatory movements of the aorta as seen in anaemia and in aneurysm; the movements of the foetus in the gravid uterus. (3) The condition of the skin and of the superficial veins. Pigmentation of the skin occurs during pregnancy, in Addison's disease, and in other forms of chronic abdominal disease, as tubercle, cancel-, and malaria. White or bluish lines {lineee albicantes), together with a bluish-white colour of the general surface, are met with as a result of great or repeated dis- tension of the abdomen. A dilatation of the superficial veins points to engorgement of the portal system, which may be caused by disease of the terminal branches of the portal vein, as in hepatic cirrhosis; by disease of, or pressure on, the trunk of this vein, or the inferior vena cava. In the last case the veins of the lower limbs become enlarged, and thei'e is generally some oedema. The supei-ficial veins of the lower part of the abdomen are often very conspicuous in cases of chronic dilatation of the stomach. The position and appearance of the mnbilicus should also be noticed, and, lastly, the usual sites of hernioB should be carefully examined. Palpation of the Abdomen.—In the investiga- tion of abdominal disease, palpation is by far the most valuable method of examination. To carry it out efficiently the abdominal muscles should be as relaxed as possible, and this is best attained as follows :—The patient should lie on his back with his head and shoulders well raised and supported, and his knees drawn up. The examiner's hands, previously warmed, should be placed gently on the abdomen, and then pressed in evenly and firmly while the patient is engaged in conversation, or after he has made a forcible expiration. In examining the lateral regions of the abdomen it is useful to place one hand over the anterior wall, and the other hand over the posterior wall, of the abdomen ; the latter is then pressed forwards against the hand in front, when any unusual structure or swelling lying between the two hands may be readily felt. This procedure is of special value in the examination of the spleen and kidneys. It may also be necessary to turn the patient on his side, or to examine him when he is resting on his elbows and knees. The administration of cldoroform is occasionally required to relax excessive tension of the recti muscles, and this is perhaps especially the case in childi-en, when sometimes deep-seated glandular mischief may be discovered, which was not perceptible before chloroform was given. Success in palpation is also much aided by previously emptying the bladder and rectum ; in suspected cases of cancer the repeated use of enemata to empty the bowel is of much help in diagnosis. Some- times, when there is obstruction in some part of the alimentary canal, it is useful to artificially distend the stomach or intestine with gas. By palpation we ascertain the existence and site of tenderness, of resistance, of oedema, of fluctuation, and of any local swelling or tumour. The various points to be observed in connection with tumours will be mentioned in a succeeding article,^ but I would here allude to the necessity of observing the presence and position of the sensation of increased resistance to palpation, for it may be the only palj^able sign of a deep-seated lesion; for example, increased resistance over the upper portion of the right rectus muscle is often a prominent sign in cancer of the pylorus. A great increase in the resistance of the abdominal walls is noticed in general peri- tonitis ; a local increase in resistance may be due to a localised peritonitis. But it must be remembered that hard tense muscles are also met with in hysterical or neurotic subjects apart from internal disease. Frequently, too, they are associated with distinct swelling, caused partly by local distension of the intestine, and partly by muscular contraction. But these " phantom tumours " come and go, and usually disappear when chloroform is administered, or even some- times when gas is removed by means of a tube passed into the rectum. In many cases valuable information may be obtained by examination jier rectum, especially by the bimanual method—that is, with the finger of one hand in ttie rectum, the other hand being placed over the lower part of the abdomen. ' "Abdominal Tumours, Diagnosis of.''