ARTIFICIAL LIMBS 282 point in tiie arm and leg. The following points must be borne in mind in amputating through the lower limb :—First, that the stump be not too long, lest it be unwieldy; secondly, that it be not too short, lest it either slip out of its socket or become unduly flexed ; thirdly, that, if it be near the ankle or knee it is better to allow room for an artificial joint rather than to disarticulate. These conditions are fulfilled in the leg by the following amputations which enable an artificial limb to be fitted with the maximum advantage, and the least discomfort. Syme's amputation is to be preferred for all operations in which the tarsus has to be re- moved : in the leg an amputation should be performed as low as possible in the middle third, since this allows sufficient room for the mechanism of the ankle-joint, and enables the extensor muscles to overcome the powerful flexors. The best amputation above the knee is that which divides the femur in an adult about four inches from the articular siirface of the condyles, because a stronger and more last- ing knee-joint can then be made, whilst the extensor muscles are not destroyed. Lower Limb.—When a limb has been re- moved for injury the stump undergoes certain well-recognised changes. It diminishes in size from disuse immediately after the operation, and, when an artificial limb is first worn, it gets still smaller, the shrinking continuing perhaps for twelve or eighteen months, until finally, as full control over the artificial limb is gained, and its use becomes second nature to the patient, the muscles increase again in size. The permanent condition of the stump is not reached, therefore, until about two years after the ampu- tation, but no stump should be fitted with an artificial limb until at least three months have elapsed after it is soundly healed. Ankle.—The apparatus required after Syme's amputation, or one in which it has been found impossible to {preserve the tread of the foot, takes its bearings from the tuberosities of the tibia, more from the inner than the outer, and from the end of the stump itself, though, if the stump be tender, or if the patient is obliged to walk much, it is better to have the same apparatus as for an amputation below the knee. It consists (Fig. 1) of a leathern sheath reaching as high as the tuberosities of the tibia, and laced down the front of the leg. An artificial foot, jointed at its centre, is attached to the sheath by lateral rods which, by a joint, allow of movement at the ankle. The foot is made of light woodwork, and there is a false tendo Achillis to take off the strain which falls upon the ankle-joint when the full weight of the body is borne upon it. The instrument-maker requires a plaster-cast of the stump as high as the knee, and he should be supplied with the following measurements: the circumference of the stump below the knee, at the calf, below the calf, and at the lower end of the stump; and in addition, the length of the sound limb from the knee-joint to the ground. He should also be furnished with an outline of the sound foot and a boot. The price varies from fifteen to five guineas, but it can be reduced by substi- tuting a circular boot without any movement at the ankle (Fig. 2) for the artificial foot. Leg.—In every amputation of the leg and thigh above a Syme's amputation the bearings of the artificial limb must be taken from the ischial tuberosity and the ramus of the pubes, as the sawn end of the bone is too tender to bear the weight of the body. A more elaborate and expensive appliance is therefore necessary. When the knee-joint is left the use of the stump is to govern the artificial knee-joint; to aid its mechanism in walking and to bend the artificial limb when the patient sits down. The tibia and fibula should therefore be sawn across about their middle, as a foiir-inch stump gives the best results. The apparatus used after an amputation below the knee consists (Fig. 3) of a sheath of leather or thin wood fitting the thigh accurately, and extending from the level of the tuber ischii, the great trochanter and the descending ramus of the pubes to within four or five inches of the knee. Two lateral steel rods jointed opposite the knee attach the artificial calf to the sheath. The calf is a thin sheath of light wood loosely encasing the stump of the leg, it is attached by an ankle-joint to a foot whose front part is made of stuffed leather, whilst the heel and back part are wooden. The measurements required are : the circum- ference at the top, middle, and lower third of the thigh; the circumference at the knee-joint, below the knee, round the calf, and below the calf; the length from the perinaeum to the knee-joint, and from the knee-joint to the end of the stump ; the length of the sound limb from the knee-joint to the ground ; the circum- ference at the knee, below the knee, round the calf, below the calf, and over the ankle at the instep. An outline of the sound foot should also be sent, and a boot, stating whether the right or left leg has been amputated. The price varies from thirty guineas to five pounds. In the public services, and where economy is a great object, the " box leg " (Fig. 4) is used after all amputations of the leg below the knee. The patient rests upon his knee with the stump projecting backwards, the apparatus being fixed to the body by two straps, one encircling the hips and the other passing round both arms of the box and the contained thigh. The pin portion of the leg can be jointed to prevent the inconvenience caused by its projection when the wearer is sitting down. The price is from two pounds to fifteen shillings. Thigh.—The artificial limb used after amputa- tion through the thigh (Fig. 5) contains a knee as well as an ankle-joint, but otherwise it differs