BLOOD PRESSURE 423 Blood Pressure. <S'ee ANyEsxHEsiA, General 1'hysiology of; Aneurysm; Asphyxia; Physr^logy {Circulation^ Blood-Pressure); Pulse {Arterial and Venous Pressure). Blood, Stains for.—Eor clinical work the most ^ouorallj useful stains are Ehrlich's triacid solution, and one of the modifications of Jenner's eosin methylene blue stain, e.r/. Leish- man's or Wright's. Triacid Stai7i.—Fix the films for five minutes in formalin, 1 ; absolute alcohol, 10 ; or, better, by heat as described al)ove. Wash, dry, and place face downwards for from three to five minutes in the triacid solution (Grubler's is the most relia])le). The film is then washed, dried, and mounted. If staining has been successful the red corpuscles stain pale orange, nuclei greenish blue, neutrophile granules purple, and eosinophiles violet. Basophile granules are un- stained. Leishnuin^s Stain.—No preliminary fixation is needed. Three or four drops of the stain are placed on the dried film, and after half a minute six or eight drops of distilled water are added, and staining is allowed to go on for five niinutes. Wash in distilled water for about a minute to difterentiatc; dry without heating, and mount. Red cells and eosinophile granules stain pink, nticlei purplish red, neutrophiles red, protoplasm of lymphocytes bluish, and mast granules deep violet. The method is particularly adapted for staining parasites. Sometimes neutro2:)hile granules do not stain, and this is the chief drawl)ack of the method, as it may be impossible to difterentiatc myelocytes. Blood, Test for Human.—The production of specific anti-bodies by the injection into an animal of the cells or tissue juices of a difterent species has been utilised to olitain a test for hvnnan blood. This is chiefly employed in medico-legal work. An anti-serum is prepared by repeatedly injecting an animal (say a raljbit) with human blood serum. After a time the senun of the injected ralibit acquires the pro- pertj- of giving a precipitate when added to the serum of human blood, or to solutions of dried human blood stains on linen, etc. The reaction is practically a specific one, though the blood sera of certain of the higher apes also yield a precipitate. Blood Transfusion. See Anemia, Permcrjus {Treatment); Laisour, Post-Partum H.EMORHHAGE ; TRANSFUSION. Blood-Vessels. See Arteries, Diseases OF ; Cai'illaries, Diseases of ; Veins, Diseases OF. Blow Flies. See Myiasis. Blowing: Wells. See Meteorulogy {/larDjiieter). Blue Blindness. See Colour Vision. Blue Disease.—Morbus cajruleus. See Heart, Congenital Malformations of. Blue Lick Spring's. -SVe Balneology {America). Blue Line. See Toxicology {Irritants, Lead). Blue Ointment. See Hydrargyrum {Unr/uentiim). Blue Pill. See Hydrargyrum {Pilula). Bockhart's Impetigo. See Im- I'ETIGO. Bodies. See GYNECOLO(iY, Diagnosis in {Foreiijn Bodies); Immunity ; Joints, Diseases OF {Loose liodies). Body-Weight. See Life Insurance. Bognor. See Therapeutics, Health Re- sorts {English). Bohemian Spas. See Balneology {Historical ; Peat and Mud Laths). Boiling. See Invalid Feeding {General Prejxxration of Focjd). Boils and Carbuncle. See also Axill.\ {Diseases, Inflaniniations) ; Diabetes Mellitus {Skin); Skin Diseases op the Tropics {Boils); Smallpox {Sequelae); Ty'PHOid Fever {Complications and Se<iuelrp, Cutaneous St/stem). Boils A boil is a circumscrilied infective iiiflaunnation of the skin and subcutaneous tissue, originating either in the pilo-sebaceous follicles or in the sweat-glands, which results in necrosis of the central portion involved, and its subsequent ex- trusion through a limited opening in the skin as a slough. Etiology.—Although in all cases a directly exciting cause is necessaiy, there are neverthe- less certain constitutional conditions which tend to favour the development of boils—diabetes, chronic nephritis, chronic alcoholism, and the convalescent stage of the continued fevers. In other words, any condition, physical or hygienic, which tends to reduce the tissue vitality below par, and to lessen the resisting power of the organ- ism as a whole, may be rightly regarded as a pre- disposing cause. The long-continued application of irritants to the skin may also act locally as a favouring factor ; and it is a matter of general observation that the commonest seats of boils are precisely those parts—the nape of the neck, the nates, and the axilla—in which continued friction is most likely to facilitate the entrance of micro-organisms. Whatever the predisposing cause may be, in all cases we require the presence of the active excitant. This has been proved to be the same organism as that found in all superficial abscesses