382 BLACKWATER FEVER porter from the presence of haemoglobin. In malarial diseases it may be highly coloured from an increased quantity of urobilin, as in any other fever; it may even contain blood in the rare cases in which there be a complicating nephritis. The temperature in blackwater fever is usually low, and several relapses have been recorded in which there was hardly any pyrexia at all. Further, the paroxysms of blackwater fever are so very irregular that out of fifty cases it would be difficult to find two temperature curves exactly alike. Other peculiar symptoms of blackwater fever are the suppression of urine, the enlargement and tenderness of the liver, the pain over the loins, and the marked leucocytosis. In malarial diseases there is seldom any difficulty in finding the specific parasites within the peripheral circulation—in blackwater fever competent observers have repeatedly failed to find one single parasite. From YeUow Fever.—The two diseases are co- endemic in the West Indies and in other places. In symptoms and post-mortem appearances they may be so much alike that frequently it may be almost impossible to distinguish between them. Black vomit is pathognomonic of yellow fever and very rare in blackwater fever. Black urine is pathognomonic of blackwater fever and very rare in yellow fever. The urine of blackwater fever is dark from the presence of haemoglobin ; in boiling it forms a coagulum of globulin which tends to float; it very seldom contains normally-shaped blood corpuscles. The urine of yellow fever is never dark in the early stages of the disease, but it may become black from the admixture of blood in the late haemorrhagic period of the disease. The pathognomonic character of the urine in yellow fever is the presence of serum-albumen, which is constantly found, no matter how pale the colour of the urine. Yellow discoloration of the skin is an initial symptom in blackwater fever; it appears late or may be absent in yellow fever. In blackwater fever the spleen and liver are enlarged and tender to pressure ; in yellow fever they are not. The vomit during the first period of yellow fever is usually colourless or some- what yellowish; in blackwater fever it is from the first of an intense green colour. The course of yellow fever is constantly the same, and relapses very seldom occur; that of blackwater fever is most irregular, and relapses are the rule. Prophylaxis The accurate investigation of the peculiar topo- graphical distribution and seasonal prevalence of the disease may yet lead to important discoveries bearing upon the use of prophylactic measures. To arrive at a knowledge of the topographical distribution and seasonal prevalence peculiar to each locality it is necessary to register o\\\j first attacks, and obtain from each patient minute information as to his whereabouts in the two or three months previous to the attack. This period will certainly cover the longest incuba- tion period of the disease. Meanwhile we may state in a general way that swampy districts should be avoided during the hot season after the rains. The prophylactic use of quinine has been strongly recommended by Doering. He believes that quinine not only wards off repeated malarial attacks and thus minimises the chances of black- water fever, but that the "irritationwhich quinine exercises upon the red-blood corpuscles during the jjaroxysm is much less when the drug has been constantly administered during the afebrile period." The daily use of quinine, for a long period, may be injurious, and should therefore be avoided when unnecessary. Treatment We have as yet no specific remedy against blackwater fever. The use of various styptics, emetics, diaphoretics, and diuretics have each in turn been credited with very beneficial action, but on insufficient grounds. Numberless drugs have been tried, but they have proved to be useless or harmful. This employment has been generally empirical or based on erroneous theories as to the pathology of the disease. Regarding the use of quinine and judging purely from the evidence of facts, we find— 1. That quinine has no specific action in black- water fever. 2. That in most cases it is decidedly in- jurious. Bastianelli, who accepts both the malarial and quinine theories of blackwater fever, suggests that the drug should be administered only in those cases in which malarial parasites are found in the blood. So much evidence has been brought forward to prove the injurious actions of quinine in black- water fever that I think its use should be forth- with discontinued in the treatment of this disease. If after an attack of blackwater fever ordinary malarial paroxysms supervened without giving rise to haemoglobinuria, quinine should certainly be administered, because if blackwater fever infection had still been lurking in the system it would have reappeared undoubtedly under the influence of the malarial paroxysms. We have as yet no remedy known to be of the slightest value in blackwater fever, and the practitioner should be content to treat the disease by careful nursing and ordinary hygienic measures until a specific treatment be sanctioned by laboratory experimentation. We are at present in this same position with regard to typhoid fever and many other infectious diseases.