ASPHYXIA 304 The Methods of Artificial Kespiration.— It is assumed that, preliminary to any method, the air-passages have been freed from obstruction. I. Inflation—(1) Mouth to mouth. The patient's nostrils being held, a handkerchief is laid over the mouth, to which the operator applies his own mouth and blows until the lungs expand. The air is then e.xpelled by pressure on the front of the chest, and the whole manoeuvre is repeated regularly. Some pressure should be made on the epigastrium to prevent the air entering the stomach instead of the lungs. (2) By catheter. In infants, the flexible catheter, which the accoucheur has always sterile in his bag, can be readily introduced into the larynx imder the guidance of the finger; the operator then alternately blows through it and allows the air thus introduced to escape. Notes. —Inflation must always be performed with extreme care and gentleness, for, as Leroy showed at the beginning of the century, it is liable to produce emphysema and rupture of the lung, and so to confirm the fatal issue which we would avoid. It has the additional draw- back that authentic records exist of the pro- duction of a series of cases of tuberculosis, where the inflation was performed by a phthisical midwife. II. Silvester's method (modified). The patient being in the dorsal position, the back of the thorax is raised about a foot from the ground or table by a pad, which may be the operator's coat or anything else at hand, but must be firm. The tongue is drawn forward and fixed with a band passed round the chin. The operator grasps the arms above the elbows, and moves them upwards and outwards till they are at the sides of the head, then they are forcibly de- pressed. This completes the inspiration. For the expiration the arms are placed together on the front of the chest, and pressed as strongly as possible directly backwards. The manoeuvre is repeated regularly. Notes.—These are prac- tically the directions of Brosch, and embody the most effective modes of carrying out the Silvester method, which raises the chest-wall by pulling on the arms. When assistance can be obtained, it is advantageous to have the feet held. Silvester methods are somewhat exhausting for the oper- ator, and it is well when two can i-elieve each other if the respiration has to be maintained for a considerable time. The experimental tests show that the amount of air thus artificially introduced is greater than that in ordinary respiration. III. Schiiller's method. The fingers are pushed under the margin of the ribs, which are then alternately pulled up and depi-essed. Notes.— This method is less exhausting for the operator, and is specially useful where prolonged rather than energetic aeration is needed, e.g. in narcotic poisoning. IV. Schultze's method for children. The child being grasped so that the operator's thumbs rest loosely on the front of its chest, his fore- fingers enter the axillte from behind and his fingers are spread over its back, while the head is supported by the hollows of his hands, he, standing a little astraddle and bending a little forward, holds it at arm's length hanging down. Without delay he, swinging his arms upwards straight till they have passed the horizontal, flexes the elbows a little, and the momentum carries the child's pelvis and legs gently on and so compresses its abdomen, while the whole weight of its body presses the thorax against the operator's thumbs. The child is then swung downward again, and the pressure against chest- wall and diaphragm relieved. It is advantageous to wrap the child loosely in a dry cloth. Notes. —Much discussion has taken place as to whether this method is apt to produce serious injury to the child, and making all allowance for errors of observation it is impossible to give an entirely favourable verdict. Ahlfeld had a sudden death in a child on which he was merely demonstrating the method. That it can aerate the lungs in the entire absence of spontaneous respii-ation is clear from the post-mortem examination of children who have died from causes other than asphyxia,—e.g. cerebral hsemorrhage. V. Buist's method for children. The child is laid face downwards on the operator's right hand, with the head away from him, the upper and lower parts of the body being dependent over the edges of the hand. The child is then rolled over and transfei-red with a slight throw to the left hand, when, the arms and legs being again dependent, the arms pull up the thorax wall and the abdominal contents move down and pull down the diaphragm. The positions are then regularly alternated. Notes.—This method was devised to meet the exigencies of the small space available in some cases in domestic j^ractice, and while less violent than Schultze's method embodies its special feature, descent of the diaphragm in the inspiratory movement. Manual compression can be exerted by the fingers of the left hand while the child is in the expiratory position, and if desired this may be specially directed to the cardiac region. [VI. Schafer's method for the restoration of the apparently drowned. Immediately on being removed from the water the patient is placed face downwards on the ground with a folded coat under the chest. The operator places himself athwart or on one side of the patient's body in a kneeling posture, facing the head. He must place his hands flat over the lower part of the patient's back (on the lowest ribs), one on each side, and gradually throw the weight of the body forward on to them so as to produce firm pressure—which must not be violent—on the patient's chest. By this means the air (and water if there is any) is driven out of the patient's lungs. Immediately