508 BRAIN, SURGERY OF accurate apposition. Bony union takes place with certainty and rapidity. Of course, in some cases, such as compound comminuted fracture of the skull, the method is not applicable; and where the operation is immediately followed by herniation of the brain from unrelieved intracranial pressure (such as is found, for example, in cases of basal tumours which cannot be removed), it may be found impossible to fit down the bony flap into its Fig. C.—The flap of bone and adlierent soft parts turned down. place again at the end of the operation. In such a case the piece of bone must simply be torn off the flap, and the scalp tissues stitched over the protrusion. The dura mater may be divided either by a crucial or by a horse-shoe incision. In either case large vessels should be tied before they are divided, by passing beneath them very fine Chinese silk or catgut threaded on a curved round needle (such as is used for stitching intestine). In making the horse-shoe incision through the dura, it is as well to let it open the opposite way to the flap in the bone, so as, when replaced, to increase its efficiency in preventing hernia. The incision in the dura should be not less than half an inch from the edge of the bone, so as to enable the surgeon to stitch it up easily. To open the dura it should be first carefully punctured at one point with a bistoury, and then a small pair of curved blunt-pointed scis- sors used for the rest of the incision. The dura should be carefully lifted from the brain, as it may be adherent to it, and any violence used might cause bleeding from the large veins in the pia mater. The tension of the dura mater should be noted, any marked convexity of its surface at the bottom of the trephine opening indicating abnormal intracranial pressure, and calling for special care while incising the dura not to wound the subjacent brain or vessels. The surface of the brain which is now exposed should be examined :— (a) By inspection.—The presence or absence of pulsation (the latter denoting increased intra- cranial pressure) should be noted. A yellow or livid appearance of the cortex may denote a subjacent growth (Horsley), while evidences of chronic or recent irritation, oedema, new growths, etc., may be visible. (6) By^ja^joafeow.—When the increased resist- ance of a hard tumour, or fluctuation in a cyst or abscess, may often be made out. (c) By exj^loration with a fine hollow exploring needle.—This may be safely thrust into the substance of the brain in several directions, but care must be taken not to move the point of the needle about laterally in the brain sub- stance, or else of course it will cause consider- able laceration. The needle must be inserted by a direct stab, and be drawn out in the same line. By this means the presence of a cyst or abscess may be ascertained, in which case a pair of sinus forceps should be slipped along the exploring needle while it is still in position, an opening thus made, and a drainage tube in- serted. {d) By incision.—Where there are suspicions of a growth underlying the cortex, this may be divided for the purpose of further exploration. The incision into the cortex should be made with a blunt instrument, such as a periosteum elevator, and the best situation for such an incision is at the summit of a convolution. The cut should go directly in at right angles to the brain surface so as to damage vessels as little as possible. In the case of abscess in the brain, a large indiarubber drainage tube should be inserted and brought out through the lower angle in the scalp flap. This should be left in probably for several days or even weeks, and should not be removed until there are evidences of the abscess cavity being obliterated. It is most important to remember not to syringe out such a cavity with any force, or laceration of the brain will happen. In the case of cyst of the brain, if near the surface it may be dissected out, or if extensive, or deeply situated, may be opened and drained, or else plugged and allowed to heal by granula- tion. In the case of tumour of the brain, if on or near the surface, and encapsulated, the growth can be easily shelled out with the finger; or if it be of the infiltrating variety, such as a glioma, the tumour must be excised with a blunt knife of some kind, a small margin (say |- inch) of apparently healthy brain tissue all round the growth being cut away with the tumour. The cavity left by the removal of a tumour fills up considerably at once by the bulging into it of the subjacent brain tissue. If, in spite of this, a considerable cavity still be left, it may either be allowed to fill with blood-clot, which may become organised later, or it may be plugged with gauze. If the bleeding is at all