162 ANALGESICS AND ANODYNES Pain is primarily caused by irritation of the peripheral sensitive cells of the sensory nerve- filaments, or of the filaments in nerve-trunks themselves; while, possibly, injury to or pres- sure upon the sensory filaments as they pass up the spinal cord can register painful impressions in the brain. It is uncertain whether the nerves of sensation can be painfully aff"ected during their passage through the lower brain on their way to the ■cerebrum, probably they are receptive in the liasal portions at least, while the occurrence of subjective symptoms of pain in many cases, which pressure upon the nerve filaments in the dura or the pia mater appears to be insufficient to account for, might suggest the possession of local sensibility. The majority of the synthetic analgesic drugs act upon the pain-conducting paths in the spinal cord, but at the same time affect both the brain and the blood. The grey matter of the cere- brum is slightly depressed and the perception of impressions lessened. The great medullary centres are depressed, thus leading sometimes to respiratory and cardiac disturbances, or to col- lapse from a more or less rapid dilatation of the peripheral blood-vessels, owing to an action upon the vaso-motor centre. Hsemoglobin is altered by many of them, causing disintegration of the red blood corpuscles. Above all, drugs of this class are peculiarly apt to cause different effects upon different individuals, or upon the same person on different occasions. Opium, its alkaloids, and bromides act by lowering the excitability of the sensory nerves as well as of the cord and brain. Belladonna and hyoscyamus act on the terminal sensory organs. Table of Analgesics and Anodynhs (after Stockman) (A) Of General Action. Synthetic Analgencs. Source. Derivative. 1. Phenol . . CeHj.OH. Ci;H5 . COOH Benzoic Acirl. C6H4. OH . COOH Salicylic Acid. 2. Anilin . . ChHs. NHj Anilin. CfiHj. NH,. COCH3 Acetanilid, Antifebrin. n XI xr^CHs 1 Methylacetanilid, Ex- 06U5--N<^cOCH3/ algin. {OCoHs rEthoxyacetanilid, ' Acetphenetidin. NH. COCH3 I Phenacetin. „ „ ^^C2H5 ( Lactyl Phenetidin, '■-6U4<...NH . C3H5O2 I Lactophenin. _ „ ^OC-iHg / Amido-phenacetin. l^sHi-^NH. COCHsNHat Phenocoll. 3. Phenyl-hydrazin CsHs. HN. NH2 Phenyl-hydrazin. CeHs. HN. NH .COCH31 fr''"^Y': /cetyl- " ^ ( phenyl-liydrazni. CeH,-,. HN. N. CjHsOj Antithennin. 4. Phenazonum . CeHg.N N.CH3 rPhenyl-di- 3 n CO. -C.CH3 methyl-iso- Ipyrazolon. I Antipyrin, - CH Phena- Vzonum. Salipyrin, Salicylate of Antipyrin. Tolypyrin, Toly-dimethyl-pyrazolon. Tolysal, Tolipyrin Salicylate. Opium and its alkaloiJ.s ; Bromides ; Belladonna and its alkaloid Atropina ; and the various kindred alkaloids of Hyosoyamus, Stramonium, etc. ; Gelsemina ; Chloro- formum ; Oliloral hydras. (H) Of Local Action. — Morphina, Codeina, Cocaina, and Aconitina. If the table shown be consulted, it may be seen that the more common analgesic drugs are derived from phenol and its compounds, or the products made from it. From phenol, anilin can be prepared ; from anilin, phenyl-hydrazin ; from the latter, phenazonum. Of these, anilin and phenyl-hydrazin are very poisonous, and their derivatives are apparently more dangerous than the compounds made from the other chemi- cal kernels. Uses.—There is a great divergence of opinion as to the member of the synthetic group of analgesics which acts most satisfactorily, and at the same time whose administration is attended by the least risk of unpleasant symp- toms. Some place phenazonum first, some phenacetinum ; others again pin their faith to acetanilidum, lactophenin, salophen, exalgin, etc. They all have an advantage in that they do not disturb the mental processes, although affecting the lower cerebral ganglia. Phenazonum and phenacetinum, when pre- scribed along with caffeina or caffeinae citras, may be regarded as those which can be most frequently given without unfavourable sequelae following their administration. The derivatives of interaction between salicylic acid and phena- zonum have been used with success in cases of rheumatism, and in those of rheumatic habit. Opium and its alkaloids, morphina and codeina, are used, generally or locally, to relieve actual pain, whatever be the cause. Bromides act more by lessening perception than by annulhng the sense of pain. Two drugs appear to have a special influence upon the fifth cranial nerve in relieving painful sensations referred to it, e.a. butyl-chloral and gelsemium. Analysis. See Am, Examination of; Food ; Toxicology ; Urine, Pathological Changes in ; Water ; etc. AricllTinesiS.—The history of a patient's symptoms, obtained by questioning him (or her) or his (or her) friends. See Gynecology, Dia- gnosis IN. Anaphrodisiacs {see also Pharma- cology).—These are remedies which diminish sexual desire or power. The principal anaphro- disiacs are—the bromides, especially bromide of potassium, iodide of potassium, camphor in the later stages of its action, alkalies in large doses, administered for a continued period, and, gener- ally, all measures which depress the " tone " of tlie system, such as starvation, purgatives, bleed- ing, wasting diseases, excessive mental or bodily labour. These may act directly on the genital organs, or upon the genital centres of the brain and cord, or indirectly through the circulation. Anaphrodisiacs are indicated in cases where sexual desire is excessive, or when legitimate