270 ARTERIES, LIGATURE OF layer of cervical fascia and sternal head of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle having been divided, the anterior jugular vein is drawn aside and the Lines of Incision for Ligation of Arteries in Head and Neck. sterno-hjoid and sterno-thyroid muscle retracted inwards, or better, cut across. The second layer of cervical fascia (pericardial) is now care- fully incised, and tlie right infei-ior thyroid vein divided after double ligation. The forefinger of the surgeon now can readily feel the innominate artery at its bifurcation. The pleura lies behind and to the right of the vessel, the left innominate vein crosses in front of the innominate artery at its lower end, and the right innominate vein lies on its right side. The right pneurnogastric nerve with its recurrent laryngeal branch and the right phrenic nerve lie to the right (outer) side of the vessel, but may require to be drawn farther outwards whilst the ligature is being placed. The aneurysm needle, threaded with a thick sterilised silk ligature, should be passed from without inward with a tendency upwards in order to avoid the pleura, which is the structure most liable to injury in this operation. In the place of a silk ligature many surgeons recommend a kangaroo-tail tendon. Ligature of the Common Carotid Artery. —The two common carotid arteries have almost identical courses in the neck. The difference in their origin scarcely affects their ligation, as this is always carried out in the cervical part of the vessel (in the case of the left artery). The course of each vessel, from a surgical point of view, may be said to be from the upper margin of the sterno-clavicular articulation to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, in a line from the sterno-clavicular joint to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. The artery is crossed at the level of the lower margin of the cricoid cartilage by the omo-hyoid muscle, and the seat of election for ligation of the vessel is just above the omo- hyoid, i.e. about the level of the cricoid cartilage. The cervical portion of the artery is about 3| inches in length, and can be felt pulsating in its whole course on either side of the larynx and trachea. The more important relations of the vessel are:—Externally, the internal j ugular vein ; in- ternally, larynx, pharynx, trachea, and recurrent laryngeal nerve ; posteriorly, vagus nerve and sympathetic. Operation (at seat of election).—An incision 3 inches in length is made along the anterior border of the stei-no-mastoid muscle, the centre corresponding with the cricoid cartilage. The skin, superficial fascia, fibres of platysma, and the deep fascia are divided, and the anterior margin of the sterno-cleido-mastoid is now clearly defined and retracted outwards, when the carotid artery will be found encased in its sheath in the angle formed between that muscle and the omo-hyoid which crosses the vessel. The descendens hypoglossi nerve is generally seen running downwards upon the sheath, and it is drawn aside and the sheath carefully opened on its antero-internal aspect. The internal jugular vein generally somewhat overlies the artery, and this is particularly the case lower down in the neck, hence the necessity of open- ing the sheath on its antero-internal aspect. Great care is requisite in separating the artery from the sheath and in avoiding injury to the pneumogastric nerve, which lies behind the vessel, and to the internal jugular vein on its outer aspect. The aneurysm needle should be passed from without inwards. It may happen that the surgeon is forced to ligature the artery low down in the neck. In this case a 4-inch incision is made in the line of the vessel lower in the neck. The anterior margin of the sterno - mastoid having been defined, it is drawn outwards, and the sterno- hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles are retracted inwards or partially divided. The omo-hyoid is now seen lying external to the former muscles; it is drawn outwards. The carotid artery is now felt for in the angle between the omo- hyoid and sterno-thyroid. The sheath having been opened still more on the inner side owing to the overlapping of the vessel (especially on the left side of the neck) bj^ the internal jugular vein, the aneurysm needle is passed from without inwards, avoiding, in addition to the structures mentioned above, the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Collateral Circulation.—After ligation of the common carotid artery the circulation is carried on by the anastomosis of the following vessels :— 1. Internal carotid with internal carotid of the other side through the circle of Willis. 2. Vertebral artery with vertebral artery of other side through circle of Willis.