AMBLYOPIA 116 not probable that there is any greater inherent predisposition to tobacco amblyopia in men than in women. The relative iiifreqnency of the affection in women seems to depend entirely upon the habit of smoking being so much less common. Indeed the average amoiuit of tobacco consumed is less amongst women who are affected by the amblyopia than it is amongst men tlius aff'ected. Other things being equal, tobacco smoked in a pipe is more Uable to lead to amblyopia tlian when smoked in the form of a cigar. In this country it is extremely rare to meet with tobacco amblyopia in a cigar-smoker. No doubt this is partly due to pipe-smoking being so much more general. Yet the writer has not met with one case in 500 in which cigars only have been smoked. Predisposing causes.—In addition to age and individual susceptibility, we may recognise cer- tain more or less evident predisposing causes, or perhaps what might more correctly be spoken of as conditions, which lead to diminished resistance to the toxic effects of the tobacco. Sleeplessness, prolonged anxiety, alcoholism, malnutrition of any kind, the state of con- valescence after serious illness, are, for instance, all factors which undoubtedly play an important part in this respect. There may have been no increase in the amount of tobacco daily con- sumed, yet the coincidence of such general conditions with more or less excessive smoking tends in men beyond middle life to admit of the cumulative poisoning which would otherwise not occur in most cases. The habit, too, of smoking on an empty stomach is perhaps the most fre- quent predisposing cause, in the absence of any malnutrition. It is a very common thing to find working-men smoking the first thing in the morning before breakfast, and therefore before having had any counter-stimulus in the way of food. From the very great frequency with which this habit is met with in those who have toxic amblyopia, it may indeed be regarded as one of the most important indirect causes. It is prob- ably also the most important cause of the relative frequency of tobacco blindness amongst working-men. Other causes, however, of this may be the stronger kind of tobacco smoked, and the greater frequency of chewing. Symptoms.—Tobacco amblyopia always as- sumes the form which has been called " central amblyopia." This characteristic of certain groups of cases in which only, or mainly, and to a rela- tively greater extent, the functions of the central portion of the field of vision become impaired, has long been recognised. Von Graefe, although he did not discover that tobacco poisoning was the cause of a large proportion of such cases, yet very clearly pointed out their importance from a prognostic point of view. Central defects, existing along with a free field peripherally, only rarely proceed to progressive blindness. The opposite is the case when an increasing- blindness is found to be associated with peri- pheral restrictions of the field of vision. In tobacco amblyopia, then, we find the defect of function limited to the central portion of the field. This occurs, too, always in both eyes. The central scotoma or blind area is never absolute, i.e. although the vision corresponding to the particular area is more or less reduced, it is never altogether lost. In this respect tobacco amblyopia, even of long standing, differs from a rather rare affection of the optic nerve, which is also bilateral, but which always occurs con- siderably before the age of forty, and to which the names "scotomatous atrophy" and "heredi- tary neuritis " have been given. The scotoma of tobacco amblyopia is negative, i.e. it is not projected in space as a dark spot, but merely exists as a circumscribed area of relative blindness of the existence of which the patient is only conscious by finding that objects are imperfectly seen. Sometimes a misty sensa- tion is complained of. This is never of the same decided character as that associated with glaucoma or choroiditis. The mistiness, when it is complained of at all, is most noticeable when facing a strong light. Patients suffering in this way often declare that they see better in the dark. Their vision is, however, only rela- tively, not absolutely, better when the sur- rounding illumination is diminished in intensity. A tobacco blind individual, for instance, whose visual acuity is reduced to one-tenth in ordinary illumination, will never present a higher degree of acuity in semi-darkness. On the other hand, as compared with an individual possessed of normal visual acuity, there will be found to be a very mvich smaller difference when the acuity of both is tested in a light sufficiently bad to interfere with the sharpness of normal sight, than when tested in good daylight. The scotoma occupies an area of the field which is, correctly speaking, more paracentral than central. Its shape is oval with the long axis horizontal. It stretches from slightly to the inner side of the point of fixation to the blind-spot, and therefore corresponds to the area of the retina lying between the outer portion of the macula and the optic nerve. There is usually a very distinct line of demarcation between the scotoma and the surrounding field. In respect to shape, size, and intensity, there is a remarkable degree of similarity in the scotoma of both eyes. The amount of blindness is, how- ever, not equal over the whole area, but is most complete at the centre at a point which corre- sponds to that portion of the retina which lies about midway between the fovea and the optic nerve. The light-sense, colour-sense, and form-sense are all diminished in acuity. Often before the visual acuity is reduced, as tested in the ordinary way with black types on