150 ANESTHETICS—ETHER Prepare the patient well beforehand wherever possible. Give it boldly and evenly, but be most careful in the deep antesthesia of children. If a mishap occiirs, trust almost exclusively to artificial respiration, and use it, if necessary, for three-quarters of an hour before abandoning hope. Let the administration be as short as may be, for danger increases with its duration. And cultivate, in using it, such plans and procedures as can be employed in emergency cases, or where only the simplest adjuncts are at hand. Ether Introductory . . .150 Revival of Use of . . . .150 Points in favour of . . . .151 Alleged Drawbacks to. . . .151 Rules for Administration . . .153 Complications during Administration . 154 Use of Chloroform and Ether . .155 Points in Special Cases . . .155 See Morphinomania and Allied Drug Habits ; Temperature ; etc. In undertaking an article on ether, I have to bear in mind three points : (1) that I am not a specialist in anaesthetics; (2) that I am, and have been for more than twenty years, an advocate of the general use of ether in preference to chloroform (of which I had previously an experience of twenty years), on account of my very firm conviction of the greater safety of ether ; (3) that I am writing for the instruction of those who, not being professed angesthetists, have more or less frequently themselves to administer an anaesthetic, or who, being operators, and having no trained anaesthetist available, have to make use of less trained persons, or even themselves to take some of the responsi- bility of the anaesthetic. The Revival of the Use of Ether in England.—It was in the year 1873 that, having been a hospital surgeon for eight years, I heard the energetic appeal of Dr. Joy Jeffries to British ophthalmic surgeons to adopt ether in- stead of chloroform as a rovitine anaesthetic. At that time chloroform was practically our only general anaesthetic. I had witnessed two deaths from chloroform, both in slight operations, one of them an extirpation of the eyeball in a healthy man. About the same time I had in my private practice, during a period of about two years, six cases in which I believed for several minutes the patient was dead. Two at least wei'e dilatations of the sphincter ani, one was an operation on a child for squint, and one was passive motion for stiff joint. Few surgeons now in practice, and fewer still of professed anaesthetists, can remember the impression made by the appeal in favour of ether by Dr. Joy Jeffries, of Boston, U.S., when at the Fourth International Ophthalmic Congress, held in London in 1873, with Professor Donders as president. Dr. Jeffries gave the opening paper of the Congress on " Ether in Ophthalmic Surgery." From this address I quote a few sentences. " Every week gives us some substantial proof of the fatality of chloroform in operative surgery." " I use and advocate ether, because it is as effectual as chloroform, and not dangerous to life." " That ether is more difticult to take and administer, I recognise and appreciate as well as any one. I do not wish to be hard with my medical brethren at home or abroad, but I cannot but think that the disagreeable pro- perties of ether induce some to run the risk of the use of chloroform, which may be fatal— when, who can tell ?" I have no doubt, in my own mind, that the revival of the use of ether in England was entirely due to this crusade of Dr. Jeffries, who, during his visit, demonstrated the American method of administration at several of the London hospitals, using merely a folded towel and pouring on ether lavishly. At that time, although a few individuals were using ether, notably Mr. Warrington Hay ward at St. George's Hospital, ether was practically unknown in British surgery. At any rate the effect of this appeal upon myself and my colleagues at the Leeds Infirmary was that we at once employed ether as a duty, for a long time not exclusively, and gave it and persevered with it, in spite of the unsatisfactory methods introduced from America of the open towel, the sponge, Rendle's or Rundle's mask, and the grid (Allis's). At last Clover came to the rescue, first with his larger apparatus, July 1876, which became obsolete, and then with the smaller inhaler, January 1877 (Clover's Portable Regulating Ether Inhaler), which has pretty well held the field for administration of ether ever since. The essential point of this inhaler was the use of an india-rubber bag, into which the patient breathed over and over again. Almost simultaneously, February 1877, Ormsby of Dublin brought out his inhaler on the same principle, and with Clover gave the key to economy of the warmth of the exhaled breath and economy of ether, reducing thereby the risk of bronchitis and the fouling of the atmo- sphere of the room by the evaporation of a large amount of ether. We have to thank an American surgeon for impressing us with the conviction that ether was a safer anaesthetic than chloro- form, and awakening the conscience of British surgeons to the duty of putting such a conviction to the test of experience. We have to thank Ormsby and Clover for providing us with an instrument which rescued the administration of ether from the two great evils of the American methods of administration, the chilling of the inspired air, and the great waste of ether. It was not unusual to use from six to ten ounces of