228 AORTA (THORACIC), ANEURYSM AND DILATATION OF extent of the surface of the sac in contact with the chest wall, the lung having been displaced, and does not indicate the diameter of the sac. Very rarely tubercular consolidation of the apex of one or other lung complicates aneurysm, and then there may be a combination of the " media- stinal " dulness with the dulness of the pul- monary consolidation. The dulness of con- solidation of the lungs dependent directly on aneurysm is usually found at their lower part— at all events at first—and the same may be said of pleural effusion. In a case of intrathoracic tumour the writer once found the lower lobe of the left lung consolidated and infiltrated with pus, while the upper lobe was compressed by pleuritic effusion, evidently of later date, the consolidation having been produced first of all as the result of pressure on and obstruction of the main bronchus of the lower lobe. A similar condition might be met with in aneurysm. Auscultation.—It will usually happen that in a methodical physical examination of the chest the signs obtained by the other methods of physical diagnosis have established the diagnosis of aneurysm before auscultation is reached. Not the less, however, is auscultation necessary, for it puts us in possession of facts of immense importance in confirmation of the diagnosis. The moment the stethoscope is applied to the aneurysmal surface the auscultator is often aware of an im'puhe or jog, while bystanders see his head moving synchronously with the patient's cardiac systole. The first sound is often absent over the sac, and is by no means necessarily replaced by a murmur, all that the auscultatoi' is aware of being the jog or impulse just referred to, which is conveyed to his cerebral centres by the nerves of common rather than auditory sensation. There may, however, be a more or less loud systolic murmur, with or without a systolic sound. It is the second cardiac sound that, in aneurysm involving the first or first and second parts of the arch, bears such charac- ters as are practically pathognomonic. Great intensification or accentuation of this is the sign referred to. So forcibly are the valves closed that the shock of their closure may in many cases be easily felt following the systolic ex- pansion or heave {vide " Palpation "). This intensification of the aortic second sound is a sign of peculiar value, and if a practised observer has neglected systematic physical examination and employed auscultation first of all, he will in most instances be at once put in possession of the diagnosis. It is very common for such a second sound to be followed by a murmur, of course diastolic in rhythm, and indicative of some leakage taking place between the over-stretched valves, which are unable to close completely the enlarged orifice. It is possible, however, that a diastolic murmur may be produced in an aneurysmal sac apart from incompetence of the aortic valves. At least in cases of the kind it may be impossible to demonstrate post-mortem such a degree of incompetence as would explain so loud a murmur as that heard, but it must be re- membered how impossible it is post-mortem to represent the state of the valves in the presence of high blood - pressure during the patient's life. Over some large aneurysms a practically continuous murmur may be heard running through both systole and diastole, and in cases of the kind incompetence of the aortic valves may not be easy of demonstration post- mortem. On the otlier hand, incompetence of the aortic valves may be abundantly evidenced post-mortem, not only by the state of the orifice and its valves, but by the condition of the left ventricle, which may be considerably dilated, while the murmur of mitral regurgitation was audible towards the end of the patient's life. The accentuation of the second sound heard over aneurysm of the arch is usually of much greater intensity than that characteristic of mere dilatation of the vessel, though the latter sound is often of great loudness, and may be clear, ringing, and almost musical. The aortic second sound in true aneurysm, however, is indicative of the closure of the valves with a degree of force that seems almost irresistible, and that is never reached in simple dilatation of the arch. In simple dilatation pressure symptoms, moreover, are absent. Symptoms.—Pain is an exceedingly common symptom of intrathoracic aneurysm. It varies in intensity, and in aneurysm of the arch is often referred to the upper part of the front of the chest, shooting to the shoulders, and sometimes into the neck. In aneurysm of the descending aorta, again, pain in the back is apt to be of great intensity and persistence, owing to the pressure exerted on the spinal column. Lastly, in aneurysm involving the first part of the arch, true angina pectoris may be produced by implication and conse- quent narrowing of the coronary orifices by the atheromatous process, though this event is more common in cases of simple dilatation of the arch than of true saccular aneurysm. When true angina occurs, the radiation of the pain is the usual one, down the ulnar side of the left arm and forearm to the ends of the little and ring fingers. Moreover, the pain may be followed by the numbness and power- lessness of the classical angina. But irregular forms of angina are perhaps more common. In certain cases of aneurysm of the arch, probably involving the innominate artery, pain and paresis are experienced in the right arm. Then there is a curious localisation of pain that is most difficult of explanation, namely, in the occipital region. This pain is sometimes referred to one side, and may be of great intensity, so that it forms the most prominent symptom of the case.