BLOOD, PHYSIOLOGY AND CLINICAL INVESTIGATION OF 418 slightly stronger solution of acid no blue tint appears (after the corpuscles have been washed oft'), then the strength of acid required to neutralise the alkalinity must be represented by an intermediate paper, if there be one. One wishes to find out the exact point where there is neither an excess of alkali nor acid to act on the litmus. There are a number of fallacies in this method; for example, with increased dilu- tion of the plasma, percolation into the litmus- papers takes place more easily. If the total alkalinity of the blood be required, perhaps the most accurate method is that de- vised by Ldwy, only in the majority of cases it cannot be employed with safety, seeing that the patient cannot afford to lose the amount of blood necessary for one estimation. It consists in "laking" a fixed quantity of blood (5 c.c.) with 45 c.c. of a 0-2 per cent ammonium oxalate solution, the alkalinity of a jDortion of this mixture being then estimated by titration with N ^ tartaric acid. Carefully prepared neutral litmus-papers ar-e used as indicators. Other methods, such as that of Landois, are so ti'ouble- some to carry out, and are so fallacious, that it is not advisable to give any description of them here. The distribution of alkali in the corpiiscles by micro-chemical methods has been employed by various workers. There is one which can be recommended as giving most interesting results, and that is by the use of erj'throsin, a com- pound which is the same as eosin except that it contains iodine instead of bromine. The pre- cipitate obtained by acidifying the watery solu- tion is easily soluble in ether or chloroform, forming a yellow fluid which, on coming in contact with an alkali, gives a beautiful red colour (formation of a salt). The point of im- portance in the method is, in the first place, to see that all glass which comes in contact with the blood is purified from salts adhering to it. Then fill a small glass vessel with a chloroform- toluol solution of free erythrosin. Place cover- glass film, face downwards, in this for a minute or two, taking it out as soon as it appears dark red in colour, transfer rapidly to pure chloroform (which is all the better of being changed twice), then mount direct in balsam without drying. The blood picture that is obtained is very in- structive, the plasma appearing red, the red cells unstained, the protoplasm of the white corpuscles red and their nuclei imstained. One notices at once the strong alkaline reaction of the lymphocyte protoplasm and the blood plates and the absence of staining in the nuclei of the levicocytes. V. Estimation of Haemoglobin. — Of the methods used for clinical work the following may be regarded as the most suitable, from the point of view of rapidity and ease combined with moderate accuracy:—Gowers' Hoemoglohino- meter, von Fleischl's Hcemometer, Oliver''s Themo- ijlobinomieter. Of these three the last two are the most accurate, \inless great precautions be taken in carrying out the first one. There are two methods more exact than those, which, how- ever, are not so well adapted for clinical work, viz. by Hoppe-Seyler's colorimetric apparatvis and Hiifner's spectro-photometer. Goivers^ Hcemoglohinonieter.—This method is a colorimetric one and consists in the comparison of a more or less diluted solution of blood against a colour standard which is fixed. This standard consists of a solution of picric acid and picro- carmine in glycerine and water, gelatine being added in order to solidify it. The mixture so obtained is supposed to represent in tint a 1 per cent watery solution of blood. The instrument consists either of two circular glass tubes of the same calibre, or, preferably, tubes which have been flattened in order to obtain a layer uniform in thickness. They may be placed side by side with a slight interval between, or with their edges slightly overlapping, in order to prevent white light passing through between them. The one is the standard, the other a tube graduated from 10 up to 120 degrees of dilution. Twenty CTibic millimetres of blood are measured by means of a capillary pipette, and are then as quickly as possible lilown out into the empty tube in which a few drops of water have been previously placed. The tube is quickly shaken in order to defibrinate the blood, and then by means of a pipette stopper, which fits into a bottle containing distilled water, the latter is carefully added drop by drop until the tint in the tube is the same as that of the standard. Complete admixture must be obtained by shak- ing the tube at intervals during the addition of the water. The normal blood, on being diluted up to the mark 100, ought to give the same tint as the standard tul^e, on being examined in the direct line of light. It is better to examine with the tubes in front of a white sheet of paper by day- light or by reflection from a standard artificial light. The amount of hfemoglobin in the blood is then x'ead off at the point lying between the degree of dilution that gives a slightly darker tint and that giving a slightly fainter tint than the stan- dard. As a rule this instrument is found to be acciu'ate within 4 to 5 per cent. Von Fleischl's Hamometer. — In this instru- ment the blood is diluted to a fixed degree, and the amount of haemoglobin estimated by comparing the tint with a long wedge of coloured glass, which is of a deep red tint at the thickened end, gradually becoming fainter as it approaches the thin end, where the glass is colourless. This wedge is fixed in a metal frame, which is graduated on one side, so that the percentage of haemoglobin can be directly read off when the tint of the glass and that of the blood correspond.