ARTERIOSCLEROSIS 281 CARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM ; LUNGS, VaSCULAR Disorders {(Edema); Meninges ok the Cere- brum ; Nerves, Neuritis ; Obesity ; Syphilis ( Vascular System). Arteritis. See Aneurysm ; Arteries, Diseases ov ; Lung, Tuberculosis of ; Rheum- atism, Acute {Morbid Anatomy); Typhoid Fever {Complications and SequelcK). Arthraemia.—Congestion of a joint. Arthra.ig'ia..—Pain in a joint, nervons, or due to lead - poisoning or syphilis. See Joints, Diseases op ; Trades, Dangerous {Lend-Poiso?ii III/). Arthrectomy.—(1) Excision of a joint; (2) opening into a joint and the removal of diseased structures from it. See Ankle-joint, Region of; Hip-.joint, Diseases of; Knee- joint, Diseases op. Artiiritide. — Skin disease due to the gouty or rheumatic diathesis (Bazin). See Purpura. ArtliritiS. -Inflammation of a joint. See Balneology {Arthritis); Brachial Plexus, Surgical Affections of ; Chorea ; Dengue ; Hemophilia; Hip-joint,Diseases of; Hysteria; Joints, Diseases of ; Knee-joint, Diseases of ; Leucocy'tosis ; Menopause ; Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal ; Mumps {Comjdica- tions); Riieuma'I'ism, Acute ; Rheumatism in Children ; Rheumatoid Arthritis ; Scarlet Fever; Shoulder, Diseases of; Sy'philis ; Tabes Dorsalis ; Typhoid Fever ; Undulant Fever. Artliritis Deformans. See Rheu MATisAi; Rheumatoid Arthritis. Artliritism. —Gouty or rheumatic dia- thesis (7.*'.). ArthrOCiasy.—The operation hy which an aukylosed joint is broken up. See Ji:)INTs, Diseases of. Arthrodesis.—The artificial fixing of a joint by fibrous or osseous ankylosis, the articular cartilages being removed. See Deformities. Arthrogryposis.—Permanent flexion of a jiiint. See Tetany. ArthroiysiS.—The opening of a joint and the division or removal of adhesions, in cases of fibrous ankylosis, especially at the elbow. See Joints, Diseases of. Arthropathy.—A disease of the joints, particularly in association with tabes dorsalis ("Charcot's Joint Disease " or "Tabetic Arthro- pathy "), syringomyelia, tuberculosis, and hysteria. See Osteo - Arthkopatiiies ; Syringomyelia ; Tabes Dorsalis. Arthroph lysis.—A skin disease (miliary eczema) associated with heart disease in gouty and rheumatic subjects. Arthropods. See Parasites {Arfltre,- po,/s). ArthrOSporeS. — Spores produced by cell-segmentation and having a higher degree of resistance than ordinary vegetative cells (endo- spores). See Micro-Organisms. Articulations. See Joints, Diseases of. Articulation-Defects. See Cheek, FissuliE of ; Pai>atk (Ci.ki-t). Artificial Feeding^. See Infant Feeding. Artificial Hearing^. See Hearing, Artificial Aids to {I'l/mpana, Ear-Trumpets, etc.). Artificial Limbs. Introductory Rules for Amputation . Lower Limb— Ankle Leg Thigh LTppER Limb— Fingers . Hand Forearm Upper Arm . 281 . 281 . 282 282 . 282 . 283 . 283 . 284 . 284 See also Amputations ; Ankle-joint ; De- formities ; etc. Introductory.—To no operation in surgery does the old adage respice Jinem. appl}^ with greater force than to an amputation, for the sui'geon has to consider the future of the patient and to fashion that form of stump which will prove most useful when an artificial limb has been adapted to it. Thought must also be given to the social condition of the patient, because what is best for a wealthy man is not necessarily most serviceable to a pauper or even to a person of only moderate means. The end to be attained after an amputation of the arm is widely diflcrent from that required after re- moval of the leg. The arm is capable of many and varied movements, and the hand is con- stantly in view ; more complicated and delicate apparatus is required therefore in the ai'm, and it is a golden rule to make all operations upon the upper extremity as conservative as possible. The movements of the leg are coarser, and the limb is more hidden fi'om view, but, as it usually has to bear heavier weights and rougher usage, a more rigid and less complicated apparatus is sufticient to fulfil its main purposes. Rules for Amputation.—The rules for ampu- tation differ therefore from a prothetic stand-