468 BRAIN, PHYSIOLOGY OF fibres from these cells pass to the cortex of the lateral lobe of the cerel tellum. (A few fibres of this peduncle pass towards the nucleus pontis of the same side, and thus enter the tegment.) It will be seen that the tracts which are con- nected mainly with equilibration either enter the middle lobe, or arise from its roof nuclei or the adjacent dentate nuclei; that they leave the cerebellum hy the inferior and superior I^eduncles and by the cerebello-vestibular tract. The lateral lobes, on the other hand, which may be largely destroyed without disturbance of equilibration, receive their afterent fibres mainly from the pontine cells which are related to descending fronto-pontine and temporo-pontine tracts. The function of these tracts is not yet known. The Cranial Nerves The Olfactory Bulb and Lobe.—The olfactory bulb and lobe lie in the olfactory sulcus on the under surface of the frontal lobe. Near the commencement of the fissure of Sylvius the lobe divides into two roots, the outer of which crosses the fissure and ends in the tip of the uncinate gyrus of the same side, while the other root j^asses by way of the anterior gyrus, probably through the posterior limb of the internal capsule to the corresponding convolutions of the opposite side. Lesions of the sensory portion of the internal cap- sule produce, along with other forms of crossed aniesthesia, a loss of smell on the opposite side. l%e Oxjtic Nerve.—The filjres of the optic nerve are derived from the cells of the retina in such a way that those from the outer half of the retina and macula lie in the outer half of the nerve, and those from the inner half of the retina and macula occupy its inner half. At the chiasma there is a semi-decussation of the nerves, the outer halves being uncrossed and each entering the tract of its own side, while the inner halves cross into the opposite tract. The result of this process is that the fibres from the right half of each retina form the right optic tract, and the fibres from the left half of each retina form the left optic tract. Each tract passes round the crus cerebri, and ter- minates in a threefold maianer. One group of fibres enters the external geniculate body, a second the anterior corpus quadrigeminum, and the third the pulvinar of the optic thalamus. From the geniculate body fibres pass through the optic radiation of Gratiolet to end in the cuneus, or according to Henschen in the sides of the calcarine fissure; according to Dunlop and Mackay, the centre for colour-vision is also in the fusiform lobe. This path is the central half-vision path. The fibres to the anterior corpus quadrigeminum suljserve the light reflex; they terminate parti}' in the cells of this ganglion, and partly in relation to the centre in the third nucleus for the sphincter of the iris. (In this connection it is to be noted that the two sphincter centres must be directly connected—AVeir Mitchell, Bernheimer.) 'The special function of the filires to the pulvinar is not yet determined. According to Henschen they do not form part of the visual path. From the corpus quadrigeminum and pulvinar there is also a connection through the optic radiation Fio. ii.—Scheme to show tlie course of the fibres which .subserve tlie liglit reflex. Note tlieir partial decussation at tlie cliiasma, and their termination near tlie nucleus. with the half-vision centre at the side of the calcarine fissure; but the special value of these tracts is as yet unknown. The Third Nerve.—The nucleus of the third or oculomotor nerve is situated in the anterior part of the grey matter surrounding the aque- duct of Sylvius, and immediately dorsal to the jiosterior longitudinal fascicidus. Its upper extremity is at the lower limit of the third ventricle; and its lower lies midway between the anterior and posterior corpora quadrigemina where it is almost continuous with the fourth nucleus. The third nucleus is distinctly' segmented, and each segment has probably a special fmiction, although this is as yet only partly determined. The divisions of the nucleus are as follow: — 1. A median nucleus. 2. An anterior nucleus. 3. A posterior and postero- latei'al nucleus. 4. An external nucleus. 5. A postero-internal nucleus. Their relative j^osi- tions are shown in Fig. 10. The root-fibres pass through the posterior longitudinal fasciculus in separate slightly curved bundles, and pass forwards to emerge