6 ABDOMEN, INJURIES OF it may radiate in various directions, is often more intense over the seat of mischief. It is, however, an uncertain symptom — for if the shock is profound there may be Uttle pain ; and in most cases, after the lapse of a few hours it tends to diminish. Local tenderness, which is a constant symptom, is therefore more reliable as a guide to the injured area. Some degree of swelling is generally present in the abdominal wall, and in cases of great extravasation of blood between the muscles this may be considerable. The temperature is usually below normal, but cannot be relied upon as an indication of the patient's condition. Although valuable information may be ob- tained from a history of the accident, the examination of the clothing, or the position and nature of external signs of violence, accurate diagnosis of the existence or absence of intra- abdominal mischief is frequently impossible at this stage. The variability of shock has been mentioned. In most cases of injury affecting the abdominal parietes only, it is usually slight, but it may be profound or may even be imme- diately fatal. The essential point to be re- membered is that in contusions without visceral injuries, shock, even if profound, is usually of a transient nature, and signs of improvement are most often manifest in the pulse and general condition in the course of a few hours. In the case of contusions associated with intra-abdo- minal lesions, it is usual for shock to be well marked, but there are numerous instances in which it has been sufficiently delayed to allow the patient to walk a considerable distance with such conditions as ruptured liver or in- testines ; and it may be said that these ex- ceptional cases of slight shock with severe visceral mischief are more common than the exceptional cases of profound shock with no such complication. Even when delayed, shock comes on sooner or later if intra-abdominal lesions are present; but whether it appears immediately, or after an interval, it always tends to persist, or to relapse after some slight improvement. It is this continuance of the phenomena of shock which helps to mark the contusions which are associated with visceral lesions. Should the conditions of shock be approach- ing a fatal issue the pulse becomes irregular or almost imperceptible, and the surface of the body livid in colour. If death does not occur from shock within a few hours after the receipt of an injury which has produced an intra-abdominal lesion, symptoms of intra- peritoneal htemorrhage, or of peritonitis, are usually manifested. In haemorrhage—which commonly occurs after rupture of the solid viscera or of the great vessels—the phenomena of shock become increasingly greater from the time of the accident; or if any improvement is shown in the condition of the patient, it is soon followed by the occurrence of further haemorrhage, resulting in the production of what Bryant has aptly described as " relapsing collapse." This gradual accumulation of blood in the peritoneal cavity is marked by great pallor and coldness on the surface, flickering pulse, sighing respiration, and a feeling of breathless- ness. The abdomen becomes soft and more or less distended, and the blood tends to accumu- late in the flanks, where it causes an increasing dulness varying in position with the attitude of the patient. The pupils become widely dilated, unconsciousness supervenes, and death occurs in a condition of extreme collapse. In other cases the patient may survive the effects of shock and hfemorrhage, and may die of peritonitis. This is more common after rupture of the hollow viscera, though it may occur apart from any such lesion. The symp- toms of peritonitis will be considered later. Such, then, are the general symptoms occur- ring in contusions of the abdomen with and without visceral complications ; hut they vary ividely in different cases. When inti-a-abdominal mischief exists, the presence of certain special symptoms forms the most reliable guide to the localisation of the lesion. These symptoms will now be considered. Symptoms and Diagnosis {Special)—Lesions of the Stomach.—There is severe burning or gnawing pain over the site of the stomach. Partial ruptures, involving the peritoneal sur- face, are accompanied by vomiting, and followed by symptoms of localised peritonitis. Lacera- tions, involving only the mucous surface of the organ, generally cause profuse hsBmatemesis. In complete ruptures, the escape of gas from the stomach into the general peritoneal cavity may cause the normal liver dulness to dis- appear. This phenomenon is by no means always present, and is of value only in the earlier stages; for, later on, it is apt to be confused with the tympanitic distension of the intestines, caused by the peritonitis resulting from the escape of the stomach-contents into the abdominal cavity. The drum-like disten- sion of the abdomen produced by the passage of hydrogen gas by means of a stomach-tube, as mentioned under wounds of the abdomen, may serve to establish the diagnosis of com- plete rupture; but in the absence of this lesion the stomach itself becomes distended, and there is no free escape of gas into the general cavity. In most cases of complete rupture, death occurs within two days from shock or septic peritonitis. Lesions of the Intestine.—There is good reason for supposing that partial lacerations may occur, but we have no certain means of dia- gnosing them. In complete ruptures, shock is generally present to a marked degree, hiit there arc many exceptions. Persistent local pain,