302 ASPHYXIA an asphyxia ending in death the blood is entirely deoxygenated. It seems thus certain that in actual practice both factors co-operate. After death by asphyxia, apart from the en- gorgement of the right side of the heart and the systemic veins, even after the left side of the heart has been emptied by rigor mortis, none of the appearances can be said to be either uniform or characteristic. The whole pul- monary circulation is gorged and the mucous membrane of trachea and bronchi injected. Asphyxia livida and Asphyxia pallida.—In the process of asphyxia, there is a stage when the patient has a livid appearance, the muscular tone is preserved, the l)lood-pressure is high, and the heart-beats, though slow, are powerful; this is succeeded by a condition in which the peripheral vessels are empty and the skin pale, the muscular tone lost and the heart-beats feeble. The prospect for the patient is so different, according as he has reached the first or the second of these stages, that they have long been clinically distinguished by the names livid and pallid, especially in the asphyxia of new-born children. Causes op Asphyxia.—1. There ai-e conditions in which air is replaced by other gases, e.g. car- bon dioxide, as we have already seen, and carbon monoxide. Carbon monoxide produces a more stable compound than oxyhsemoglobin, and leads to complete oxygen starvation. It is the main agent in death after colliery explosions, and in poisoning by lighting gas. 2. Conditions in which air is excluded mechanically from the lungs. Such are, the spasm of the glottis caused by irrespirable gases, pure carbon dioxide being supposed to act in this way ; obstruction by impaction of food or foreign bodies in the pharynx ; suffocation and overlaying ; strangula- tion and hanging; drowning; some diseased conditions, such as, oedema glottidis, diphtheria, oedema of the lungs and catarrhal pneumonia ; tetanic contraction of the respiratory muscles, as in tetanus and strychnine poisoning. 3. Con- ditions in which the respiratory movements stop from paralysis of the central nervous mechanism of respiration, as in poisoning by opium or chloroform. During birth, pro- longed pressure on the head may produce asphyxia in this way. 4. During birth, pres- sure on the umbilical cord may interrupt the flow of aerated blood from the placenta and produce asphyxia. This sometimes gives rise to respiratory movements, and if these take place before air can reach the nose we may have asphyxia during birth, produced as in the second class of conditions. The rajyidity of asphyxia and conditions which affect it.—It is not easy to fix the limit beyond which asphyxia must inevitably issue in death, but usually when air has been shut off from the lungs for five minutes, the heart does not re- cover. After exertion, when the respiratory need of the tissues is greater, the asphxyia runs a shorter course. In children, at birth the rate of physiological exchange is low, and they recover after much longer periods of asphyxia than older animals. During syncope the oxygen need is low, and this favours recovery after longer periods than usual. Low temperature down to about 60° F. also prolongs the period of asphyxia. Thus in drowning the period of submersion with possible recovery is much greater at the lower temperatures, as was shown by the old but well-established experiments of Edwards. Resuscitation. — If at any point in the process of asphyxia the cause producing it be removed, the process may be reversed and re- covery take place. By properly adapted measures we may aid this. In most cases, apart from asphyxia produced by poisoning or disease, we can have no access to the resources of a hospital, and must deal with the emergency with means always at hand. For this reason the administration of oxygen and the electric stimulation of the respiratory muscles need not be considered here. The exact indications for treatment will in each case depend on the stage which the asphyxia has reached. It is essential that a supply of aerated blood should be circu- lated through the nervous centres till they are sufficiently active to carry on automatically the circulation and the respiration. This may at times be aided by the inversion of the patient. If the respiratory centre is not yet paralysed, it may react to external stimuli, such as dashing cold water on the skin, tickling the larynx or ti'actioii on the tongue. In this case we probably only hasten the recovery, which would occur spontaneously. If the respiratory centre is anaesthetic, respiratory movements are suspended, and we must replace them by such manoeuvres as produce entrance and exit of air into the lungs. If the asphyxia is still more advanced and the circulation almost stopped, we must see that the manoeuvres we adopt are such as not only promote the access of air to the lungs, but force the blood from the gorged heart, so that it passes on through the lungs and through the nerve centres. The essential need in these two latter classes of conditions is to supply for the time being an artificial respira- tion and an artificial circulation. Historical.—The earliest method of supplying air to the lungs in asphyxia was that of inflation. This was performed at first from mouth to mouth, the patient's nostrils being held ; later, specially devised laryngeal catheters were used, and eventually the inflating mouth was replaced by special bellows, which had the advantage of supplying air with more oxygen and less carbon dioxide. In addition to the inflation it was usual to employ manual compression of the chest to assist the expiration. The idea of imitating the respiratory movements is due to