ANAESTHESIA 141 act as irritants. They may cause transient albuminuria, and the etlier is said to lessen (jr even suppress tlie urinary flow. In pronounced renal disease, chloroform is prol)ably safer than ether when given from an inhaler and in small auiount. Glycosuria and hepatic disturbances occasionally follow the inhalation of chloroform, a condition kindred to acute yellow atrophy having been noted. EriiER. — Ether, being a feeble protoplasmic poison, does not injure the musculature of the heart nor produce a permanent effect Tipon the nervous tissue. Paralytic dilatation of the heart does not occur inider ether. There is no ap- precial)le vaso-motor disturbance or fall of blood- pressure. It is more irritating to the inflamed surface of mucous membranes than dilute chloro- form vapour, and causes more secretion from their glands. It is asserted, as the result of careful ol)servations, that the mucous rales occasionally heard after ether inhalation are the results of nnicus impregnated with ether, which is aspirated from the buccal cavity into the trachea and at length into the bronchi. If this aspiration is prevented, the irritation of the vapour does no harm. The so-called " ether pneumonia " — a bronchitis leading to lobular inflammation—is probably caused by mucus so aspirated. Ether pneumonia is a very rare complication of etherisation, although a kindred condition, pneumonia arising in the course of abdominal operations for the relief of oVistruction, is less rare, and is sometimes confused with true " ether pneinnonia." In the pneumonia follow- ing al>dominal section the cause is fetid material regurgitated from the stomach and aspirated with mucus into the trachea. This danger is a well-recognised condition in patients who have not been placed under an anaesthetic. Derangement of the mind following inhalation of anaesthetics, amoiniting to insanity, may occur in persons predisposed to the condition. It is probably the result of vascular disturbance and not associated with any particular antcsthetic, although it is said to be most commonly met with after the use of chloroform. Tlie remote effects of antesthetics deserve careful study. During recovery, vomiting and syncopal attacks may occur, so that the re- cumbent posture should always be insisted upon for some hours after operation. Cases of death from asphyxia have been recoixled, due to the patient having been placed in bed in such a postiu'e that the air-passages became occluded by the tongue or by vomit. When the abdomen is very much distended the effect of anresthesia is to relax the cardiac sphincter of the stomach so that its contents regurgitate into the buccal cavity, and, unless the greatest care is taken, become aspirated into the air-passages. This accident may take place at the time of the operation or during recovery from the antes- thetic, and may occur after any an;esthetic. It must be remembered that during the inhalation of a narcotic the body temperature falls some degrees ("5" to 3° Fahr.); the more j^rolonged the administration the more pnjnounced the drop in the temperature. Patients are thus placed in a condition favourable to the produc- tion of such inflannnatory lesions as bronchitis, pneumonia, pleurisy, etc. In the case of ether the rapid evaporation from the lung surface which takes place tends further to cool the pulmonary tissues and predisposes to such sequelae. The patient, lioth during and after the operation, shoidd be carefully covered, e.g. by cotton-wool, and preserved from the effects of draughts, etc. Regulating Chloroform Inhaler. — Any plan of giving chloroform in which the dilution is only roughly ascertained by the adminis- trator's observation is fraught with danger. The temperature of the air, the vigour of the patient's respirations, and the experience of the chloroformist are all factors in making for safety or danger. The great objection to the " open method" is that dosage cannot be scientifically determined during its use. In- dividual administrators may, by constant use of the " open method," acquire such judgment as will enaljle them to regulate the dose of chloro- form with some precision; but no method should depend for accuracy upon so variable a quantity as individual guess-work. Some regu- lating apparatus as that designed by Junker is safer, although no inhaler can be deemed free from all danger, except in the hands of a con- scientious and experienced practitioner. Un- doubtedly the physical condition of the patient is an important consideration in deciding how the anaesthetic should be given. Thus in per- sons already placed at a disadvantage by a diseased condition of the heart muscle, by an inffamed or a^dematous j^tdmonary mucous mem- brane, less of the anaesthetic is required and much greater dilution of the vapour employed is necessary than in the case of those whose organs are normal. The dangers of chloroform may be summarised as arising from an excessive strength of vapour, and to prevent this the apparatus figured is one of the best to use. The jDrinciple involved is that only a certain percentage strength of vapour can be inhaled. In the original ap- paratus of Junker this principle was carried out, but the more modern forms, such as that depicted in the figure, and those made by Krohne and Sesemann, are superior in detaih In the apparatus shown the glass face-piece (Vajna) secures cleanliness. The bottle should be capable of holding six ounces, and should be graduated to two ounces. As a rule, one ounce of chloroform, never more than two, should be placed in the bottle, being pom-ed down the funnel attachment which has been fitted, at ray