258 AREVAREVA Areva.reva..—A skin disease in Polynesia, ascribed to the use of kava. Arg'clS.—A genus of wood-ticks or Ixodes. See Scabies. Arg^enta.inin.—A silver salt (nitrate or phosphate) dissolved in a solution of ethylene diamine; used in ophthalmology and in gonor- rhoea (strength of solution, 1 : 4000). Arg'entol.— Oxyquinoline sulphonate of silver ; a local astringent and antiseptic ; used in gonorrhoea and surgery. Arg'entum. »S'ee Silver and its Salts; and Drug Eruptions. Arg'inin.—A diamido acid, allied to guani- din. JSee Physiology (Proteids). Arg^yll - Robertson Phenome- non.—Normal contraction of the pupils to accommodation and convergence, but not to light. See Pupil ; Tabes Dorsalis. Argfyria,.—The discoloration of the skin and mucous membranes due to prolonged use of the silver salts. See Addison's Disease (Dia- gnosis) ; Nails, Affections of the ; Skin, Pig- mentary Affections of. Arhovin.—A compound of diphenylamin and thymyl-benzoic ethyl ester, used in gonor- rhoeal conditions. Arima,. See Balneology {Jajjan). Aristol.—An antiseptic powder I'esembling iodoform, and used for the same purposes; di- thymol-iodide. AristolOChia.—The stem and root of Aristolochia indica (birthwort) is used officially in India as a bitter stomachic, as an antidote for snake-bites, for ague, gout, and menstrual irregularities. The preparations are the Liquor Aristolochiae Concentratus (dose, ^ to 2 fl. dr.), and Tinctura Aristolochiae (dose, |- to 1 fl. dr.). Arm. See Amputations ; Artificial Limbs ; Brachial Plexus, Surgical Affections of ; Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism {Trans- verse Lies); Labour, Management of {Transverse Presentation); Labour, Accidental Complica- tions {Prolapse of Arm); and Lymphatic System. Armoraciae Radix.— The root of Cochlearia armoracia (horse-radish), used as the Spiritus Armoraciae Compositus (dose, 1 to 2 fl. dr.) as a stomachic (like mustard), as a counter-irritant (in rheumatism), and in scurvy. Arnica. — Tinctura Arnicae is prepared from the rhizome of Arnica montana. and con- tains an active principle (arnicin, Cj2H2202), a volatile oil, inulin, isobutyric acid, etc.; it is used externally for bruises, hence its name " accident plant," but its value has probably been overrated. A tincture of the flowers is official in Canada. See also Dermatitis Trau- matica ET Venenata ; Drug Eruptions ; Myiasis. Arosa. See Therapeutics, Health Re- sorts {Switzerland). Arrectores Pilorum. See Skin, Anatomy {Muscles). Arrhythmia. — Irregularity, loss of rhythm, especially of the action of the heart. See Heart, Neuroses of ; and, Gout {Circulatory System). Arrowroot.—A starchy food prepared from the roots of Maranta arundinacea and other species of Maranta. See Diet ; Invalid Feeding. Arsenauro.—A proprietary preparation of the bromides of gold and arsenic. Arsenic. See also Anemia, Pernicious {Treatment); Bromism {Treatment); Chlorosis ; Colon, Diseases of; Cholera, Epidemic {Dia- gnosis); Colour Vision ; Dermatitis Traumatica ET Venenata ; Death, Signs of {Putrefaction); Drug Eruptions ; Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium ; Herpes ; Ichthyosis {Arsenical Keratosis); Lichen ; Mineral Waters ; Nails, Affections op ; Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis ; Pharmacology ; Psoriasis ; Pur- pura ; Skin, Pigmentary Affections ; Toxico- logy {Irritants); Trades, Dangerous {Workers in Arsenic).—Metallic arsenic is not used medi- cinally, but is represented by the following oflflcial compounds : — 1. Acidum Arseniosiim is commonly known as White Arsenic. It is a heavy wliite powder, soluble 1 in 100 of cold and 1 in 10 of boiling water. Dose—^^-jj gr. Prexjarations — (1) Liquor Arsenicalis (Fowler's solution), 1 per cent. Alkaline. Dose —2-8 m. (2) Liquor Arsenicalis Hydrochlor. 1 per cent. Acid. Dose—2-8 m. 2. Sodii Arsenas is soluble 1 in 6 of water. Dose— ^o--Yo gr- Preparation—Liquor Sodii Arsena- tis, 1 per cent. Dose — 2-8 m. 3. Arsenii lodidum is soluble. Dose—-^-i gr. Prepara- tion — Liquor Arsenii et Hydrargyri lodidi (Donovan's solution). Contains 1 per cent of each iodide. Dose—5-20 m. 4. Ferri Arsenas is insoluble. Arsenious acid was at one time used largely as a caustic for warts and growths of various kinds, but unless applied very strong there is considerable danger of toxic effects arising from the absorption by the skin. Internally arsenic