BRAIN, TUMOURS OF 498 which they are progressing, and the degree of their severity; the more urgent the symptoms the more grave is the immediate outlook. The seat of the tumour has also important bearings on this question, for those which involve the medulla oblongata or pons as a rule terminate life more rapidly than tumours in other situa- tions. Valuable information may be afforded by the state of the optic papilla, for intense double optic neuritis of rapid onset is of serious import, while when there is evidence that the neuritis is very chronic the probabilities are that the unfavourable progress of the disease will be slow. In the absence of trephining, one of the most favourable signs in prognosis is a diminishing optic neuritis. Treatment. — The treatment of cerebral tumours is of two kinds, curative and palliative ; but unfortunately the cases in which cure is possible are far outweighed by those in which palliative measures can alone be adopted. In either form of treatment we have both drugs and surgical procedures which are of use. Two drugs are alone of any real value in the curative treatment of cerebral tumours, iodide of potassium and mercury, and unfortunately syphilitic tumours alone result in cure under their influence. Treatment by these drugs does a certain amount of good in tuberculous tumours also, and temporary improvement may result in other forms of intracranial growth, so that improvement under this regime does not necessarily mean that the tiimour is syphilitic, although in this variety alone can cure be looked for under such treatment. Even syphil- itic tumours are not, however, always completely cured by these drugs, for a certain amount of thickening and scar tissue not unfrequently remain which no amount of drugs can remove. The meninges are adherent to the cortex under such circumstances, and the irritation which results may lead to persistent epilepsy, followed, it may be, by dementia and insanity. Thus even in syphilitic cases when drugs do not succeed in completely removing the disease, as evidenced by a continuance of some or all of its former manifestations, the cases form a proper and suitable group for surgical interven- tion, provided the position of the lesion is one accessible to operation, and there is not already evidence of widespread syphilitic disease of the cerebral arteries. The temporary improvement that may follow the use of iodide of potassium and mercury in cerebral tumours other than those of syphilitic nature is unfortunate, in that it engenders false hopes, and occasions an amount of delay that might otherwise not be entertained where surgical intervention is under consideration. To be of real value in the treatment of syphilitic tumours of the brain iodide of potassium must be given in full doses, such as thirty grains three times a day, and the drug ought to be pushed beyond these limits before it is abandoned in any case of the kind in which it does not appear to be influencing the condition. Moreover, when iodide of potas- sium alone fails in its object a beneficial result may, nevertheless, be obtained by the adminis- tration of mercury in conjunction with the other drug. Inunction of the mercury or its administration in the form of grey powder are preferable to other modes of exhibiting the drug in these cases. Cod-liver oil and tonics, such as are in vogue in the treatment of tuber- culous disease elsewhere, are also of value in the treatment of tuberculous tumours of the brain. Apart from the temporary improvement observed under treatment by iodide of potassium in some cases none of the other forms of cerebral tumour are favourably influenced by drugs. Even arsenic, which has been tried in cases of sarcoma, owing to the restraining in- fluence that this drug appears to exert on this form of growth in other parts of the body, has had no obvious influence. The curative treatment of cerebral tumours by surgical means has met with brilliant success in the hands of skilled surgeons of special ex- perience ; but only a comparatively small pro- portion of cases of the kind allow of surgical intervention with a view to enucleate the growth, a state of things due to a variety of circum- stances. A large number of tumours are so situated as to be beyond the reach of the surgeon, others though accessible occupy too exteiisive an area of the brain, or are of such an infiltrating nature that they cannot be com- pletely removed. Where the cure of a cerebral tumour is im- possible much may yet be done to alleviate the patient's suffering. All physical exertion should be avoided, and as much mental rest as possible secured; alcohol should be forbidden, and constipation guarded against. Of the various drugs that are in use for the relief of the pain, phenacetin, antipyrin, croton chloral, cannabis indica, and morphia are the most serviceable, though the last named should be only given when the paroxysms of pain are so severe that none of the other drugs give relief. Cold to the head in the shape of the ice-bag is of great service, and is to be preferred to either counter- irritation or leeching. Convulsions are best controlled by bromides and chloral. Where medicinal treatment fails to relieve the urgent symptoms of a cerebral tumour, we have in trephining a measure that is of the greatest possible benefit in suitable cases. Not only are headache, vomiting, and, it may be, convulsions relieved, but impending death may be averted by the relief of intracranial pressure, and, in any case, life is prolonged, and the time left to the patient to live made infinitely more tolerable than without the operation. Another important consideration is the inflvience which trephining has on the optic neuritis, which quickly sub-