319 ASTRINGENTS may be successful. In liajmorrhage from the stomach or bowels, local astringent action may Ije obtained from tannic and sulphuric acids, the oxides of silver and zinc, acetate of lead, alum, ferric salts, or sulphate of copper. Ergot, morphina, hyoscyamus, and lead salts may also check the bleeding by their more general actions. In gastric ulcer a dilute solution of nitrate of silver (1 gr. to 1 oz.) often appears to act beneficially ; and in dysentery, massive rectal injections of the same solution are often success- ful. For the arrest of diarrhoea little need be added to what has already been noted. The probable origin of the diaiThosa should be borne in mind when making choice of the astringent remedy, i.e. whether it be vascular, glandular, peristaltic, or inflammatory. In many instances dilute solutions of sub- stances, which, when in more concentrated form, act as corrosives and escharotics, prove to lie most valuable astringents. Care must be taken, however, in making use of such solu- tions, to avoid any untoward results which may follow the application to one individual of a lotion innocuous to many other's, but, owing to personal idiosyncrasy, injurious to him. This occurs most frequently when solutions of mer- curic or lead salts are employed; we have met with a case in which one painting of the pharynx with 1-480 perchloride of mercury solution with a by no means full brush, was followed by poisonous sequeke. Asylum. See Alcoholism; Insanity; Lunacy. Asymmetry. — inequality of develop- nn'ut (if two sides or two (normally symmetrical) parts of an organism, e.g. the human skull. See Mental Deficiency {Congenital Cases) ; Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged {Pelvic Deformities). Asynclitism.—Absence of parallelism, as between the planes of the fmtal head and those of the pelvis during the movement of descent in labour. Asystole.—Imperfect emptying of one or both ventricles of the heart due to defective contraction of their walls. See Heart, Myocar- dium and Endocardium. Ata,mi. See Balneology {Japan). Atavism.—The appearance in an in- dividual of a character or characters not ex- pressed in his parents, but known to have occurred in his more remote ancestors. See Heredity {Reversion). Ata.Xicl. — Incoordination of muscular action. See Brain, Tumours of ; Cerebellum, Affections of ; Chorea ; Deformities {Coxa Vara) ; General Paralysis ; Muscles, Diseases of the {Pseudohyj)ertrophic Paralysis) ; Para- lysis {Sjmstic Paraplegia., Infantile Hemiplegia, Paralysis Agitans) ; Spinal Cord, Medical ; Tabes Dorsalis ; Toxicology' {Lead Poison- ing). Atelectasis. — Defective expansion of the lungs, congenital or acquired. See Medicine, Forensic {Infanticide). AteleiOSiS.—The syndrome in which there is both arrested developm.ent and arrested growth. AtelO-. — Imperfect, as in such compounds as ateloguathia, imperfect jaw. Athelia.—Absence of the nipple of the maiiiniary gland. See Mammary Gland, Diseases of {Congenital Anomalies). Atheroma. See Arteries, Diseases of ; Aneurysm {Etiology) ; Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels ; Tinnitus Aurium. Athetosis (see also Brain, Affections OF Blood-Vessels ; Brain, Tumours of ; Brain, Cysts ; Chorea ; Hemiplegia ; Paralysis ; Tabes Dorsalis).—Definition.—A term intro- duced by Hammond in 1871, and applied to cei'tain cases " mainly characterised by an in- ability to retain the fingers and toes in any position in which they may be placed, and by their continual motion." The movements are spontaneous, deliberate, and monotonous in character, and are most marked in the lingers, and it may be the toes, of one side or of both. J^tiology.—Athetosis is simply a symptom, associated with divers lesions of the brain. The .etiology, accordingly, is somewhat varied. One group of cases is congenital, athetosis being a common symptom in the cerebral birth palsies which result from injury to the brain during labour. These cases are usually bilateral, and the pai'alysis is associated with spasm. The children are usually idiots. In early childhood, athetosis may occur in connection with hemiplegia. Infectious diseases, and especially whooping - cough, play an im- portant jDart in the etiology. The condition commonly follows an attack, or a series of attacks, of convulsions. Mental defects are common. In adults the condition is conmionly associ- ated with hemiplegia, the athetoid movements appearing in the affected limbs during recovery from the paralysis. In other cases there is an alcoholic history, and the movements appear after a series of epileptic fits. In very rare cases the condition appears to be directly due to injury. Symptoms.—The mode of onset varies accord- ing to the etiology of the case. The condition may set in suddenly without preceding symp-