321 ATHREPSIA gastro - intestinal disturliancc leading on to progressive emaciation and due to defective development. See ATRoniY, Infantile. Athyreosis.—Defective development or physiological activity of the thyroid gland, and the results produced thereby. See Thyroid Gland, Medical {Myxcedema). AtlodidymuS. — One of the polyso- matou.s terata ; a monstrosity having two heads on one neck. AtmocausiS.—The cauterisation of a mucous membrane {e.g. the uterine) with steam passed in with a two-way catheter; vaporisa- tion ; used for the same purposes as curettage {q.v.). Atmospheric Bacteria. See Aseptic 'I^reatmbnt of Wounds {Air-Infection). Atmospheric Pressure. See Meteorolocy {Till! Barometer). AtOCia.—Sterility. See Sterility. Atomisation.—The administration of a liquid medicine in the form of spray, e.g. by means of a Burroughs, Wellcome and Co. Naso- pharyngeal Atomiser. Atony. See Labour, Precipitate and PROLONtiED {Uterine Inertia). Atrachelocephalus. — A monstros ity (e.g. the anencephalic) in which the neck is short or apparently absent. See Teratology. Atresia.—Absence, occlusion, or narrow- ness of one of the apertures of the body canals: e.g. atresia ani vaginalis or vulvar anus is absence of the anal opening in its normal position, the rectum opening into the vagina or vulva instead ; atresia, hymenalis, an imper- forate condition of the hymen ; atresia of the pulmonary artery, narrowing or complete oblitera- tion of the pulmonary artery at or above its valvular orifice. See also Ear, External, Diseases of {Malformations of Auricle) ; Heart, Congenital Malformations of ; Generation, Female Organs of {Arrested Developments) ; Menstruation, Disorders of ; Sterility ; Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Mal- formations) ; Uterus, Malformations of the. AtretO-.—As a prefix to various terato- logical terms signifies arrested in development or imperforate, e.g. atretocephalus, a monstrosity with atresia of one (or more) of the openings in the head. Atrichia or Atrichosis. — Bald- ness : absence of hair. Atrophoderma Pig^mentosum. Xerodermia pigmentosum or Kaposi's Disease. Ste Skin, Pigmentary Affections of the. VOL. I Atrophy. Definition . . . . . .321 Physiology of Trophic Influence . . 321 Varieties— A. Physiological .... 322 B. Pathological . . . .322 Varieties . . . . .322 Nature and Etiology . . . 322 Principles of Treatment . . 323 See also Balneology {Senile Atrophy); Brain, Atrophy ; Cheek, Fissure of {Hemiatrophy of Face); Ear, External, Diseases of {Ste7iosis of Meatus); Facial Hemiatrophy ; General Paralysis ; Hydrocephalus ; Liver, Diseases OF {Acute Yelloiv Atrophy); Muscles, Diseases oi>^ {Idiopathic Muscxdar Atrophy) ; Nails, Affections of the {Atrophy); Paralysis {Pro- gressive Muscular Atrophy); Puerpbrium, Phy- siology {Uterine Involution) ; Retina and Optic Nerve {Atrophy); Teeth {Atrophy of Pulp) ; Uterus, Malformations of the. Atrophy is defined as a diminution in the size of the structural elements of an organ or tissue. In accepting this definition it should be noted that we may find atrophy of the elements associated with enlargement of an organ, as in emphysema. Physiology op Trophic Influence.—If the function of a mixed nerve-trunk be seriously impaired by artificial section, injury, inflamma- tion, or other cause, in addition to the disturb- ances of motor power and sensibility induced, definite changes ensue, due to loss of trophic influence. The nerve - fibres lose their excita- bility and degenerate ; the muscles become soft and atrophy; the skin loses its elasticity, be- comes thin and dry, due to impaired functional activity of its glands, and changes due to dis- turbances in the blood and lymph circulation— coldness, oedema, congestioia—become apparent. The explanation of these phenomena was first aflbrded by the following experiments (Waller) :— 1. On section of the anterior (motor) root of a spinal nerve, the peripheral end was found to undergo a simultaneous degeneration throughout its whole course, degenerative changes being visible in the axis-cylinder, medullary sheath, and neurilemma of the nerve ; the central end of the nerve did not degenerate. The explana- tion is that the cells in the anterior cornua of grey matter exercise a trophic influence on the outgoing nerve-fibres, as well as on the tissues supplied by them. 2. On section of the posterior (sensory) nerve- root, diftcrent results ensued, according as the nerve was divided in the central or peripheral end of the intervertebral ganglion, (a) When the nerve-root was divided between the cord and the ganglion, the central end degenerated, the degeneration extending along the cord as far as the medulla ; the peripheral end remained un- 21