ANKLE-JOINT, REGION OF—INJURIES AND DISEASES 194 B. Of the Tarsal Bones and Joints : Tuberculous Disease . . 204 Sarcoma. . . . .205 C. Op the Tendon-Sheaths : Tenosynovitis .... 205 Tuherculous Tenosynovitis 205 D. Of the Burs^ . . . .205 III. Operations— Evasion of Ankle-Joint . . 205 Excision of Ankle-Joint . . 205 Excision of Astragalus . . 205 Excision of Os Calcis . . 206 See also Amputations ; Artificial Limbs ; Joints. I. INJURIES Sprains.—Owing to its position the ankle is a frequent seat of sprains, which are as a rule produced by a mis-step or a fall upon the foot. They vary much in severity. Some are so trivial that their effects soon pass away, while in other cases the sprain is associated with a fracture or a dislocation, one or both, or a dis- placement of a tendon. Included in the class of sprains of the ankle, therefore, are a variety of lesions, the chief among them being the tearing of ligamentous and other structures. The extent to which ligaments are lacerated will depend upon the severity of the twist or wrench. In some cases a few fibres only are torn, in others the greater part of a ligament may be separated from the bone to which it is attached. At the time of the accident the patient will experience a sharp, sudden, and often severe pain, frequently referred to the outer side of the foot owing to rupture of some fibres of the external lateral ligament. There will be a certain amount of shock, together with a sick faint feeling, and, unless the injury be a slight one, complete inability to use the limb. The initial pain will probably soon subside, but in the course of a few hours the injured parts become swollen and the seat of a tensive pain. Blood is extravasated into the tissues surround- ing the joint, and no doubt in many cases into the joint-cavity itself. The injury will be followed by an attack of synovitis of more or less severity. The swelling due to the extra- vasated blood and effused fluids is most apparent on the lateral aspects of the joint and in front. In some cases it may be very extensive, and occasion such marked deformity as to suggest displacement of the foot. Injury to a nerve is indicated when there is severe pain present, extending along the course of its distribution. Complicating a sprain of the ankle there may be a fracture of some portion of the articular surface, an injury which has been described as a " sprain fracture." A piece of bone or of cartilage is chipped off at the time of the accident, or its nutrition has been so disturbed that it subsequently becomes detached by a process of " quiet necrosis" and forms a loose body in the joint. This additional injury is scarcely ever made out at the time of the accident. It probably explains the ankylosis which sometimes follows what is to all appear- ances a simple sprain. Another complication occasionally met with, displacement of a tendon, or tendons, will be described later on. It is of importance, as a possible cause of continued lameness after a sprain of the ankle. The jDrognosis in a sprain of the ankle will depend upon the severity of the injury, the amount of damage which the ligaments and other structures sustain, and upon whether treatment has been adopted early and is efficient. A severe sprain often eventuates in the formation of adhesions which leave the joint stiff and its movements embarrassed. Treatment.—When the patient is seen soon after the accident, the ankle should be wrapped in cotton wool, and a flannel or elastic-webbing bandage firmly applied. This will prevent much effusion and moderate the amount of swelling, while at the same time it gives the patient a sense of relief. Unfortunately, the case rarely comes under observation diiring this early stage ; not until the swelling has attained considerable dimensions. Then the usual treatment is to apply cold, or what is often much better, hot fomentations. Cold can be applied in the form of an evaporat- ing lotion or as an ice bag, while the limb is kept at rest on a pillow or a splint. In the milder cases, three or four days of this treat- ment will be sufficient; it can then be replaced by a supporting apparatus, and the patient allowed to get up. When cold increases the pain, the application of heat gives great relief, and should certainly be adopted. Whether cold or hot applications are made, they should be replaced, usually after a few days, by pressure and massage. By these means the absorption of effused fluids is assisted and the restoration of function encouraged and brought about. When the sprain is severe and there is reason to suspect extensive laceration of ligamentous structures, the best results are obtained by fixing the joint in an immovable apparatus, such as a plaster-of-Paris bandage, for a limited period, usually th7-ee or four weeks. This treat- ment will secure absolute rest for the joint, and make it possible for the patient to get about with the aid of a crutch or stick. The value of massage in the treatment of ankle - sprains can hardly be over - estimated. The main question is, when should it be resorted to? Many surgeons advocate the adoption of massage from a very early period; a few days from the time of the accident. An extensive