94 ALCOHOLIC INSANITY an organisation of errors of j udgment almost pre- cludes the possibility of recovery. Fortunately many of those most systematised delusions ac- company a depth of impairment which obviates violence. For it must be remembered here again that impulsive violence characterises a great many delusional cases of alcoholic insanity. In the early stages of a delusion especially accidents must be looked for. A ruined man, a man eternally lost, a man over whose head some horrid sword is hanging, is extremely likely to put himself out of suspense and misery. And people who are persecuted, who are the victims of conspiracy, are very apt to turn. When that happens they may wreak their wrath with but little discrimination. For nearly all such delu- sions attach to some innocently offending person who is in the immediate neighbourhood, and who, in the patient's regard, is an accomplice or an enemy in disguise. 4. Cases characterised hy melancholia.—Alco- holism accounts for a large number of the melancholies in our asylums, and the type of insanity from which they suffer is characteristic. It is a melancholia which is accompanied by some of the symptoms which we have con- sidered. A simple melancholia practically does not occur in alcoholics. Delusional melancholia is very common, and the delusions are such as we have noted. There is in nearly every case an impairment of memory which is greater than in simple melancholia; and there are the defects of control which is usual in alcoholics. In particular, alcoholic melancholia is often attended by impulsive violence. Every alcoholic melancholic must be expected to make an attempt upon his own life or upon his neigh- bour's. And such acts are more to be dreaded in the earlier stages when the melancholia is developing. Men are more apt to become melancholic; women, maniacal. 5. Gases characterised by mania.—The im- mediate form of mania, which we call mania a potu, is described in a special article. It may develop in a case which does not manifest many of the symptoms of alcoholism. Most of the alcoholic manias pass through a stage of melancholia. Their excitement is very often of the angry type, especially when accompanied by hallucinations. But more frequently the type of mania is exalted or jubilant, if not quite hilarious. In women especially a mania is common which is more delirious—which does not take any notice of surroundings. In both sexes, but chiefly in men, there is great difficulty often in diagnosing between alcoholic mania and excited general paralysis. Time alone can make us certain, because not a few cases of alcoholic insanity do incur general paralysis. In many cases we must take note of the fulminating, eclampsic nature of the excitement. At one hour the patient may be reasonable and calm, apparently on the high road to recovery; and the next wildly excited and violent, without any apparent cause, and without much of a transition stage. In some cases there is an approach to an aiu-a. Some patients know that an attack of short mania is imminent. 6. Cases characterised by partial but permanent dementia. — A quite considerable number of insane alcoholic cases manifest a dementia which is not sufficiently recognised. A fair proportion of the sensational cures of which one hears prove to be " cured" by dementia. The patient passes through a pi'olonged stage of drunkenness, through an acute stage of nervousness in some form, and then comes into the world again a sober and a stupid person. But the same stupidity—the irrelevant talk, the platitude of mind, the lack of perception, the dulness, the want of initiative—may occur without an acute attack of any kind. While the patient is taking an excess of alcohol his mental functions are active, though perhaps perverted. But if the alcohol be withdrawn the mind proves itself disabled in all its rela- tions, and continues to be so. The occasion of the appearance of the symptoms is the cessation of alcohol. The peculiarity of the dementia is that it is not progressive, but that also it does not resolve. When all alcohol has been eliminated, when the bodily functions are apparently quite sound and good, still the mind does not reawaken. Such a case, in a young man or woman, will probably pass into a phase of acute illness at the climacteric or in senility. A progressive dementia, proceed- ing to an almost complete mindlessness, is the typical course of alcoholism, and, in its later stages, it is an insanity—an acquired state like the congenital defect, imbecility. But, as has been remarked, an acute attack of insanity, leading to enforced sobriety, may permanently interrupt the dementia. Pathology. — Discounting cases of gross lesions which often occur in alcoholism, and which may occasion an insanity, there is little to be said as to the pathology of this disease which will not be found in the articles "Alco- holism" and "Insanity." However we explain it, one of the facts of the insane diathesis is that the cells and fibres of the cortex cerebri are not of normal stability. That refers not only to their readiness to discharge too quickly or too deeply; it refers also to their defect of resistance to harmful conditions. High temperatures, fatigue, toxic agents, and other ills tell upon these sensitive mechanisms more than upon those of a stable brain. The dis- integration of structure which occurs in nearly all alcoholics in some one or other realm of the nervous system is accordingly apt to be deeper and more extensive in the cortex of a drunkard who is of neurotic habit. What the histology of such a process is believed to be may be gathered from the articles referred to.