BRAIN, SURGERY OF 513 due to inflammatory exudation or spreading oedema. If no symptoms appear for weeks or months, the most probaljle cause is chronic abscess of the brain. In the case of cerebral tumours the lirain has time to accommodate itseh' to the abnormal pressure by the safety - valve action of the cerebro-spinal fluid; we do not, accordingly, meet with typical symptoms of compression in tumour cases except in their latest stages, or where they are complicated by htcmorrhages. In cases of contusion of the brain the common rule is monospasm followed by monoplegia ; in compression the rule is paralysis unaccompanied by spasm, except in the comparative!}' rare cases where the compression comes on very suddenly. Diagnosis from Concussion.—As concussion and compression are in many resjiects somewhat like each other, and as compression frequently calls for immediate surgical interference, it may be as well to indicate the chief diagnostic points of dift'erence. In concussion the symptoms come on suddenly, immediately after the injury, and suggest syncope. In compression the symptoms come on gradually, some minutes or hours after injury, and suggest coma. In concussion there is general relaxation of the muscles, which tends to pass oft' when reacti(.)n sets in. In compression there is localised paralj'sis at first, tending to become general and absolute as the compi-ession increases. In concussion the respiration is shallow, slow, and sighing. In compression it is stertorous, pufhng, or of the Cheyne-Stokes' character. In concussion tlie pupils are e(pial, and usually react to light. In compression they are often unequal; they first contract and then dilate, and become in- sensitive to light. In concussion there is incontinence of urine with an emjjty bladder. In compression there is retention and overflow from a full bladder. There are many other conditions of coma from which we mnst be able to distinguish that due to compression of the brain. The chief of these are— 1. Cerebral Apoplexy.—The exclusion of injury is here perhaps the chief point. 2. OpixuH Poisoning.—Here we find the pupils contracted to a pin-point until just before death, when they may dilate. (It nuist be remembered that a ha3morrhage into the pons is followed liy pin-point pupils, high temperature, and sweat- ing.) In tlie case of compression the pupils are usiially unequal, at first contracted, then dilated and immobile. In opium poisoning the lividity VOL. I of the face, and the smell and chemical examina- tion of the contents of the stomach, may give a clue. 3. Alcohol Poisoning.—A condition very like opium poisoning may result from a large dose of strong alcohol. Here we also find pin-point pupils, but if efforts are made to rouse the patient the pupils dilate, and then contract again as he again l^ecomes unconscious. The absence of the typical stertor of compression, and a careful examination of tlie vomit and urine for alcohol, may give xiseful information ; but in many of these cases there is great difficulty in diagnosis, as a patient who has taken a certain amount of alcohol may either receive an injury to the head causing compres- sion, or may be seized with apoplexy ; so it is a good rule in these cases to watch the patient carefully for twenty - four hours, or longer if necessary, when the diagnosis will usually be clear. The diagnosis of other causes for coma simulating compression depends chieffy on a consideration of the history of the case. Thus in epilepsy, followed by coma, there may be a history of previous epileptic attacks ; in ursemia the patient will probably have had convulsive seizures, while an examination of the urine may disclose some evidence of chronic renal disease ; in meningitis the early stages of the disease are different from those of compression ; in diabetic coma the pupils will react, and the lireath and urine have a smell like chloroform, while the urine will be found abnormal. Coma due to excessive heat or cold is usually sufficiently recognisable by the history of its causation. Treatment of Compression.—This consists in the removal of the cause where that is feasible. In the rare cases where a depressed fracture is causing the depression, trephining and eleva- tion of the depressed fragment must be at once performed; and considering the frequency with which traumatic epilepsy follows, it may be after some lapse of time, upon dejiressed frac- ture, even where such depression is not enough to cause symptoms of compression, it is advis- able to elevate portions of skull which are decidedly depressed, even though compression symptoms are not present at the moment. This rule applies in almost every case in the adult; possibly in the case of the more elastic and resilient skull of the child it is not so binding, as with them the depressed skull has a wonder- ful capacity for regaining its normal level without surgical intervention. Abscesses of the brain must be opened and drained (see p. 519), and clots of blood causing compression must be removed in the manner described under " Intracranial Hseniorrliagc." In spreading asdema it has l)een suggested to open the dura and deeply incise the brain tissue, so as to afford relief of tension. 33