AUDITORY NERVE AND LABYRINTH 3.3.". as regards exposure to cold. In nnimps the subsidence of the parotitis is favoured by the administration of jaborandi or its alkaloid pilo- carpin, and this, the chief remedy for labyrin- thine effusion, is thus ideally indicated. The after-results of labyrinthitis, so far as the intense deafness is concerned, can best be mitigated by instruction in lip-reading, every little renuiant of hearing power being, however, cherished and encouraged hy exercise in listening to shouted vowels, syllables, words or phrases, with or without the intermediation of a speaking- trumpet. When the disease occurs in children who have not yet learned to speak—as a rule under four years of age—deaf-mutism results, and children below the age of seven are apt to lose gradually the power of speech they have already acquired. Chronic LABYRiNTHrris with thickening of tlie membranous pai't, deposits of hbrous cal- careous and even osseous tissue may lead to the more or less complete obliteration of the cavities of the internal ear. The nervous elements undergo steady degeneration. It may result from many causes, and may be associated or not with disease of tlie middle ear. Primary Chronic Labyrinthitis in its most marked form occui'S as the result of acquired or inherited syphilis, but we may include under it those changes which are induced by con- tinued exposure to noises, and by certain toxic agencies. Syphilitic Labyrinthitis may be hereditary or acquired, and in the acquired form may occur in the secondary or tertiary stages. The s_>/mpto>us in typical cases are those of a very rapidly developed " nerve-deafness." In a day or two, or in a few hours, or even, excep- tionally with all the suddenness of a hfemorrhage, the hearing of an ear may diminish even to absolute deafness. In most instances the con- comitant disturbance of equilibrium is slight in comparison with the profound degree of the deafness, but in the sudden cases this is ex- tremely pronounced. The tuning-fork tests and the relatively greater loss for high-pitched tones localise the affection. The rapid onset witliout acute pj-rexial disturbance is most characteristic of its syphilitic nature, but con- firmation by the discovery of other lesions nnist lie carefully looked for. In the hereditary form tiie deafness most usually appears about the period of puberty. It is generally preceded—sometimes followed— by interstitial keratitis, and it is accompanied by the peculiar peg-shaped and notched upper central incisor teeth described by Hutchinson. In the ac(pnred disease the most usual stage for the occurrence of nerve-deafness is the tertiary, but in rare cases it is the secondary. The prof/)iosis is in the secondary stage fairly good; less so in the tertiary even if treated soon after the onset of tlie deafness; most un- favourable if it is of long-standing. In the hereditary form it is almost hopeless, improvement under treatment, though not un- known, being extremely exceptional. Treatment of the acquired form in the second- ary stage consists in energetic mercurial in- unction or subcutaneous injection along witli the administration of the hydrochloride or niti'ate of pilocarpin. Of this latter drug, a 1 in 24 solution may be used, and two drojjs of this grain) injected sul)Cutaneously on the first day, an additional drop being added each successive day until tlie amount of 8 or 10 is reached accoi-ding to the effect on the patient. After each injection the patient should remain in bed warmly covered, until the sweating has passed off. He should also have a small dish conveniently placed to catch the saliva as it dribbles from his mouth. This treatment should be carried out continuously for a fort- night under the supervision of the medical attendant, not by any means necessarily a specialist. Cardiac depression is to be com- bated by the administration of brandy or aromatic spirits of ammonia—which indeed favours the diaphoretic action—or in extreme cases sulphate of atropia. In the tertiary stage it is decidedly advisable —at least in otherwise fairly strong people—to give the "pilocarpin treatment" a trial. If a previous mercurial course has not been gone through, inunction should at once be practised, followed up liy iodide of potassium in full doses. In the hereditary form specific treatment is almost useless, but the observation of occasional benefit by reliable persons renders it unjusti- fiable to leave the recognised means untried. Mercurials have seemed to the writer to do more harm than good, pilocarpin has been equally without avail, but others have found it beneficial in a few cases. He has seen both the general condition and the hearing improved by iodide of potassium in doses of one drachm every four hours. Iodide of iron is in general the most useful remed}- in doses of not less than one drachm of the syrup three or four times a day. Donovan's solution of mercury and arsenic is at times useful. Nothing is of any value without the accompaniment of good nourishment supplemented by such additions as malt extract and cod-liver oil. Labyrinthitis froji Exposure to Noises.— The frequently observed " nerve - deafness " occurring in those habitually exposed to noises, such as boilermakers, cotton-factory weavers, artillerymen, and others, is explainable l)y the repeated or continual concussion to which the auditory nerve is exposed. The meagre contri- butions to the morbid anatomy seem to indicate that the proximate cause is a progressive in- flammation and degeneration of the nervous