BLINDNESS 406 should be taught to creep and walk as soon as possible. He should be encouraged to examine everything in the room. He should be early taught to feed himself; to dress and luidress. Obstacles should not be taken out of his way. He must learn by experience to avoid the furniture, to open the door, and to find his way about the house. A child brought up in this way acquires a wonderful power of avoiding objects in his path, and may come to enjoy active outdoor exercise, such as running, swim- ming, and skating. There are certain bad habits whicli blind children are apt to develop. Chief among these are the making of grimaces and the performing of extraordinary movements. Strong sunlight apparently has a marked effect in stimulating these movements. For example, the blind person may sit upright with his forearms flexed, and flap his hands up and down with apparent enjoyment for hours at a stretch. Some blind people, at the same time, shake their heads from side to side. A blind child who has faint perception of light is apt to develop the habit of turning his eyes towards the sun and then spreading out the fingers of one hand and moving them up and down between his eyes and the light. Another very common habit among the blind is, when pleased with anything, to lean forward, grin horribly, and rub the hands vigorously together between the knees. Parents should be warned to look out for and check such habits at the outset. It is true that they appear to give some sort of pleasure to the child, but they are very difficult to eradicate if once formed, and are highly objectionable when the child is old enough to mix with the rest of the world. When blindness occurs in later childhood, it is best in most cases to send the child as soon as may be to a suitable school for the blind, not only for the sake of his education, but that his interest may be aroused by the companionship of other blind pupils, and that in emulation of their acquirements he may find some solace for the loss he has sustained. An adult suffering from any disease of the eye, likely to result ultimately in blindness, should be encouraged to begin his education at once, so that he may be in the best position possible when his sight finally fails him. The Education of the Blind.—The idea of teaching the blind to read by means of raised characters appears to have originated in the mind of Valentin Hauy, who founded the Insti- tute Rationale des Jeunes Aveucjles at Paris in 1784. His example excited much interest, and before the end of the century, the Liverpool Blind School, the Edinburgh Blind Asylum, and some other schools were founded. During the present century, schools have been established in nearly all important towns, and numerous societies have been started for teaching the blind at home. Hauy made use in his books of the script form of the Roman letter. From the year 1825 to 1835 quite a number of types, all based on the Roman letter, were introduced. Of these Gall's, Howe's, Alston's, and Fry's may be mentioned. All these suffered from the disadvantage that many of the letters were not easily recognised, and consequently many blind people were unable to learn to read them. Several stenographic and phonetic systems, such as Lucas's, were also introduced, but were discarded for school use because of their inability to teach correct spelling. To overcome these diificulties. Moon invented a system which rapidly attained great popu- larity and proved most useful and practical. In his type, some of the characters suggest the ordinary Roman letters, others are arbitrary signs of his own invention. He adopted the return line of Frere, one line being read from left to right, and the next from right to left. A large number of books have been printed in Moon's type, which is still much used. The great objection to it is the bulk and costliness of the volumes. Thus the Gospel of St. John in large Moon type occupies 140 pages. In the year 1868, the British and Foreign Blind Association was founded by a few blind gentlemen, to inquire into everything that was done for the blind, to ascertain the best methods of education and employment, and to obtain their general adoption by all means in their power. The result of their labours was the introduction into this country, and, after much opposition, the general adoption of the Braille system, invented by a blind Frenchman many years before. The Braille system has many advantages. It is very simple. Writing is easily learned, so that a blind man can take notes for himself, write letters, and keep accounts. Books can be printed in comparatively small bulk, and at a comparatively low cost. Both sides of the paper can be printed on simultaneously. The system is also well adapted for musical notation. The system is a point method, the greatest number of points of which any letter can be composed being six. These six points are arranged in upper, middle, and lower pairs. All the letters of the alphabet, jjunctuation marks, and several contractions can be repre- sented by omitting one or more of these points from the group. Thus, the first ten letters, from "a" to "j," exhaust all possible combina- tions of the upper and middle points. The next ten, from "k " to "t," are formed from the first by adding a lower back point to each. Thus "a" becomes "k," "b" becomes "1," and so on. The third row is similarly formed by adding the second lower point. Writing is carried on by means of the Braille writing-frame. This consists of a strong board with a clasp at the top for fixing the paper, and of two strips of brass hinged together which