ANAPHRODISIACS 163 means of f:?ratification ai'e alwent. However, in diseases characterised by a morbid exaggera- tion of sexual desire, combined with loss of self-control (inhibition), moral and hygienic treatment is of the greatest importance, and anaphrodisiac drugs are useful as adjuncts only. Apart from disease, advantage may be taken of the well-known physiological fact that severe muscular exercise (as in " ti'aining " for sports) or mental labour (as in studying for examina- tions) is attended by temporary diminution or absence of sexual desire, in cases where it is not feasible to carry out St. Paul's advice that it is better to marry than to burn. i Such depressant measures as the administra- tion of very large doses of alkalies are not made I use of in practice for controlling morbid sexual appetite. An£lSa.rca.. — Serous infiltration of the subcutaneous tissue ; general oedema. See Angeioneurotic Oedema ; Dropsy ; Heart ; Nephritis; Pregnancy, Intra-Uterine Dis- eases ; Typhoid Fever (Complications and Sequela'). Anastomosis. - (1) Intercommunica- tion between arteries oi- veins (or nerves) with other arteries or veins (or nerves) by means of cross vessels ; inosculation. See Liver (Anasto- moses between Portal ami Systemic Si/stems). (2) The establishment (by operation) of communica- tion between two parts of a hollow viscus (e.g. intestine) or between one canal and another (e.g. the ureter and the rectinn); also the establish- ment of continuity between one nerve and another (e.g. the facial and the spinal accessory). See Intestines, Surgical Affections of. Ana.tomy.—Literally, dissection ; gener- ally, the structure of an organism, especially the human body and the bodies of the higher animals. The structure of the body may be looked at from various standpoints and for various purposes, hence arise the subdivisions of Applied, Comparative, Descriptive, Developmental, General, Medical, Microscopic, Morbid, Practical, Regional, Surgical, Topograpdiical, Transcenden- tal, and Veterinary. In tliis work Anatomy is not treated separately, but reference is made to anatomical facts bearing upon disease and its treatment under such headings as Brain ; Generation, Female Organs of ; Intestines ; Spinal Cord ; etc. AriclXOn.—A neuron, or nerve cell, appa- rently devoid of axis cylinder processes. Anazoturia. —The state of the urine when it shows absence or deficiency of nitro- genous materials, especially lu-ea. See Eclampsia ; Liver : Urine, Pathological On.\NGEs IN ; etc. Ancestral. — The original or early type or form from which existing types or forms are lielieved to have been derived by evolution. See Heredity (Laiv of Ancestral Inheritance). Anchylosis. See Joints, Diseases of. AnchylOStomiasiS. — A disease due to the presence of a parasite (Anchylostoma duo- denale), occurring specially in miners and workers in tunnels ; miners' antemia ; luicinariasis. See Parasites (Strongylidai). Androgrraphis. — Indian Chiretta, a powerful bitter, used officially in India and Eastern Colonies, for purposes similar to those for which quassia is employed. There is an in- fusum,, a liquor concentratus, and a tijictura. Androgryniaor Androgrynism.— Masculine jjseudo-hermaphroditism. See Her- maphroditism ; ITterus, Malformations of the. AndrolOg^y.—The study of the anatomy, physiology, etc., of the male organs of genera- tion. See Penis ; Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of. Anectasin.—A bacterial product, acting as a vasii-iHotor constrictor. See Ectasin. AnelectrotOnuS. — The state of de- creased excitability of a muscle under the in- fluence of the anode. See Physiology. Anemometry. — The measurement of the force or velocity of the wind. See Meteor- ology (Anemometry). AnencephaiuS.—A monstrosity, char- acterised by absence of the brain and bones of the cranial vault, and often also by an open state of the spinal canal. See Labour, Faults in the Passenger ; Maternal Impressions ; Pregnancy, Diseases of Placenta and Cord ; and Teratology. Anerythropsia. See Colour Vision (Ped-blimhiess). Anethi FrUCtUS. — Dill fruit, which contains a volatile oil (Oleum Anethi), which is official (dose, \ to 3 m.). The only prepara- tion of dill fruit (Peucedajium graveolens) is Aqua Anethi (dose, 1 to 2 fl. oz.). Dill oil and dill water are used as carminatives in infants, and the former is employed externally as an anodyne. Aneurysm. Anatomy of Aneurysm . . . .164 Etiology—Two Factors . . .16-1 Causes of Raised Blood-pressure Causes of Diminished Resistance of Artery Signs and Symptoms . . . .167