119 AMBLYOPIA blindues« becomes suddenly complete, tlie cause has to be looked for elsewhere than in the retinal changes, and is in fact a toxic one. Short of this complete blindness, however, it occasionally happens that temporary aggravations in the amount of tlic blindness caused by the retinitis have a uraomic origin. This is important to note botli as regards the general condition of the patient and the prognosis as to vision. Urnemic amblyopia or amaurosis occurring alone and unassociated with retinitis is very rare. B. Functional and Reflex Amblyopia Transitory Amblyopia.—What is often called amblyopia fugax is a condition which is mainly connected with gastric or hepatic disturbances. There is a transient loss of sight, either com- plete or partial, which comes on either quite suddenly or within a few minutes. The duration varies from a few minutes to an hour or more, but is usually not much longer than half-an-hour. In many cases there is at the same time, or there comes on shortly after- wards, a more or less marked attack of megrim. But this may occasionally be altogether absent, or be only sometimes an accompaniment of the fugitive amblyopia in any particular individual. A peculiarity of this form of blindness is that it is invariably negative in its character. The patient is simply conscious of the sight becom- ing defective either over the whole field, or more frequently in one half or sector. He observes that while one part of an object may be quite sharply seen, other parts are either wholly in- visible or only imperfectly seen, without there being any sensation as of a screen interposed. Frequently the attacks begin with the sensation of zig-zag flashes of light, arranged, it may be, like ramparts in a fortification. This peculiarity lias given rise to the name teichopsia (from Tetxos = a rampart). The blindness, whether involving the whole or only the one half of the field, either spreads from centre to periphery and disappears eventually in the same way, or the converse may take place. There are no ophthalmoscopic changes observable during an attack. The 2^roynosis is invariably good, and the immediate cause is, no doubt, some vaso- motor cliange in the visual centres. There appears to be a form of aml:)lyopia which is very similar in its symptoms; but the attacks are of longer duration and are accompanied by more or less evident signs of oedema of the retina. The cause is then a spasmodic constriction of the retinal arteries. The prognosis in such cases, though favourable, is not absolutely so. Sometimes a permanent scotoma may be left. Such cases are, however, infrerpient, whereas the ordinary megrim attacks of transitor}^ amblyopia are, comparatively speak- ing, frequent. Hysterical Amblyopia.—Another character- istic form of functional amblyopia of quite a different nature, however, is wiiat is frequently called hysterical amblyopia. Many cases have been described as reflex, particularly such as seem to be brought on by lesions or irritations of the fifth nerve. They are, however, all similar in nature to hysterical amblyopia. It is not necessary, therefore, to relegate them to separate categories. The causes of this form of amblyopia are numerous. Amongst them may be mentioned mental shocks, neurasthenia, anaemia, and mal- nutrition generally, menstrual and ovarian troubles, frights, traumata. Railway accidents furnish a not inconsiderable number of cases. It is well to remember this, because the con- ditions are often such as to suggest simulation. And indeed the moral nature in hysteria is often so perverted that deceptions are frequently practised which would probably not be the case were the individual in perfect health. It is necessary, therefore, sometimes to make the somewhat subtle distinction lietween symptoms which are directly hysterical and those which are simulated as the result of deceptions to which the hysterical state predisposes. Hysterical amblyopia is most common in women, though by no means confined to them. It is met with either in one or both eyes and in very varying degrees of severity. It is often accompanied hj other neurasthenic or more markedly hysterical symptoms—yet this is not invariably tlie case. In no case which could properly be diagnosed as hysterical are there any ophthalmoscopic changes. The different forms of hysterical blindness may be classified as follows : bilateral hysterical amblyopia, unilateral hysterical amaurosis, and bilateral hysterical amaurosis. In all cases it may be said that the symp- toms seem to be due to an imagined interrup- tion of, or interference with the establishment of, visual impressions. There exists a more or less complete cutting off" of the connection between the higher centres and the peripheral stimuli. In some instances this does not amount to more than a degree of bhmting of the attention. In others it seems impossilile for the individual to direct attention to the impressions formed on one or both retinae at all. In hysterical amblyopia of tlie lesser degrees the result of an examination of the visual fmictions, of the central acuity, and of the field of vision depends very greatly on the individuality of the examiner. It depends, in fact, upon the extent to which he can stimulate and compel the attention of his patient. No doubt, also, many observers allow themselves to be deceived much more readily than others. Sometimes indeed the patient finds himself in face of an examiner wdiom he feels more or less powerless to deceive at all. Hence it is no doubt that the accounts given by different authors are so conflicting, and so different, it