ABORTION 27 rhages and abortion may occur in the earlier months. If gestation continues, its existence is revealed by accidental or unavoidable luenior- rhage. (c) Morbid Changes in the Placental Elements {vide " Pregnancy, Diseases of Placenta "). 3. Maternal Causes. — (1) Local Causes.— These are in the uterine membranes, in the uterus as a whole, or in the neiahbourinsj: organs. (a) Decidmil Disease.—-A great many cases of abortion are traceable to inflammatory processes occurring in the endometrium, whether these had been present before impregnation began or set in more acutely afterwards, and often abor- tions associated with general diseases, such as cholera, result more immediately from the endo- metritis induced by the diseases. (h) Uterine Disorder.—Again, if there be neo- plasms such as fibroid tumours in the walls, or cancer developing in the neck of the uterus, abortion is liable to occur. So also pregnancy in a displaced and especially in a retroflected uterus, or where there has been laceration of the cervix, very often ends abortively. (c) Disease of the Adnexa.—Tumours of the ovary, distensions of the Fallopian tubes, and inflammatory adhesions with some of the neigh- bouring organs sometimes interfere with the normal growth of the uterus and cause abor- tion. (2) Constitutional Causes. — (a) Chronic Diseases.—Where the system is weakened by over-lactation, by sexual excesses, alcoholism, or by want in times of famine, or from antemia, chorea, diabetes, albuminuria or heart disease, or even habitual constipation, the inability to bear the strain of pregnancy shows itself in some by the occurrence of abortion and in others by the onset of premature labour. (b) Acute Diseases. — In various acute diseases, such as the zymotic fevers, acute yellow atrophy, pneumonia, peritonitis, etc., gestation is apt to be cut short. Poisoning with lead or mercury, or with noxious vapours such as coal-gas or car- bonic acid gas, acts in the same way. (c) Shock or Injury.—In women of a nervous temperament a sudden fright, in others a physi- cal jar or injury, will cause abortion. The risk of abortion from surgical interference has been greatly lessened since the patient's fears are quieted by the administration of antesthetics, and the tendency to surgical fever counteracted by the use of antiseptics. Criminal Abortion.—The practitioner must not lose sight of the possibility that he may be called to a case where he is unable to trace the abortion to any of the causes we have been considering. Even in unlikely quarters he may find that a woman has tried at her own hand, or with tlie advice and aid of an abortionist, to free herself of the fruit of an illicit amour. There is too sad evidence of a disposition among married women of frivolous character to crush the noblest instinct of womanhood and sacrifice the life that is palpitating in their womb, that they may be free to meet the claims they let society impose upon them. It is usually at the second or third month that such criminal procedures are had resort to. Symptoms and Diagnosis The Symptoms that lead the patient to send for the practitioner are—(1) H;emorrhage; (2) Discharges from the Uterus ; (3) Pain. 1. Hemorrhage.—Very commonly it is the oozing of blood from the genital canal that gives the first signal of the danger. The bleeding may present the following characters :—A mere show, an ordinary menstrual period, or a profuse flooding. It may appear intermittently at intervals of hours or days, or in a more con- tinuous stream, and may be fluid or clotted. Sometimes the blood has coagulated within the uterus, and only the serum is making its escape. In abortions from the fourth to the sixth month there may be no ha;morrhage till the birth- process is nearly over; but in the earlier abor- tion there is usvially hasmorrhage from the outset. The possibility of the hamorrhage arising from an extra-uterine gestation must not be lost sight of. 2. Other discharges.— If the aboi'tion begin with the burst of the membranes, escape of the liquor amnii may be the first indication. Watery discharges may be due to decidual endometritis or be associated with hydatigenous degeneration of the chorion. In the latter case some of the vesicles may be detached and thi'own off". In other instances some portions of the membranes, uterine or ovular, or the foetus, may be dis- charged. Now and again the whole contents of the uterus are thrown oft' almost before there has been any loss of blood. 3. Pain.—The expulsion of the uterine con- tents is brought about by the action of the uterine muscles. Accordingly, intermittent pains, indicative of the uterine eflfort, and re- minding a woman, who has previously had a child, of her labour pains, are perceived sooner or later. Sometimes it is the occurrence of the pains that makes her appreciate her danger. Diagnosis.—The full diagnosis, however, can only be arrived at by direct physical examina- tion. Perha])s inspection of a " mole " that has been discharged may convince the practitioner that he has before him the untimely product of a conception, and that the abortion is already complete. Even in that case it would still be his duty to make a bimanual examination of the uterus to make sure that it is contracting, is in good position, and not unduly ha;morrhagic. Where as yet nothing but some blood has escaped, he must examine to determine whether the patient be really pregnant, and whether the abortion be evitable or inevitable.