207 ANOSMIA Anosmicl.—Absence, partial or complete, of the sense of smell. .SVe Braix, Tumours op ; Cerebellum, Affections of ; Fifth Nerve, Affections of ; Hysteria ; Nose {JVasal Neu- roses). Antacid. — A medicine counteracting acidity, especially in the stomach, but also (Ijy "remote" action) of the urine. Examples are found in the alkalies (soda, potash, lithia) and their carbonates and in the acetates and tar- trates of the alkalies and alkaline earths. See DuiESTiON ; Indigestion ; Pharmacology ; Pre- scribing ; etc. Antag^Onism. -This term is used in medicine to convey the idea of opposition of action as regards drugs, a drug and a disease, diseases, a disease and a morbid tendency, physiological processes, and muscular actions. .sVi" Pharmacology ; Toxicology : etc. Anteflexion.—See Gynecology, Dia- gnosis IN ; Uterus, Displacements of the. Antenatal Pathology.—The study of the morbid processes which affect the organism before birth, including the diseases of the foetus, the monstrosities, malformations and anomalies of the fwtus and embryo, and the phenomena of morbid heredity. See Germ, Pathology of; Heredity; Pregnancy, Intra- uterine Diseases ; and Teratology. Antepartum.^Before labour; e.r/. ante- partum lueuiorrliage or bleeding from the uterus due to placenta prsievia in the last months of pregnancy. See Pregnancy, Haemorrhage. AnteversiOn.—See Gynecology, Diag- nosis IN ; Uterus, Displacements ok the. Anthelmintics (-see Parasites; Pre- sciiiHiNG ; PHARMACoLO(iY).—These are remedies which kill or e.\pel worms. The frequency of the occurrence of intestinal parasites, especially in children, and the important nervous and other symptoms often associated with their presence, both in children and adults, are referred to at length elsewhere. Classes.—The remedies used in the treatment of intestinal worms are usually considered in two groups; those which poison the parasites are termed vermicides, whether they actually kill them or simply stupefy them, so that they are easily expelled ; while those that simply expel them from the bowel (drastic purgatives "for the most part) are called verniifuges. Enumeration.—The principal vermieides are male fern, turpentine, pelletierine (an alkaloid obtained from pomegranate root bark), kousso, kamala, areca, which are all used for the tape- worms; santonine, which is used for round | worms and thread worms. I The principal vermifuges arc cathartic purga- tives, such as jalap, which may be given alone or a few hours after a dose of a vermicide. Enemata of salt and water, turpentine, per- chloride of mercury, infusion of quassia, often with the addition of the perchloride of iron, are used to reach the thread worms (ascarides), which flourish in the rectum and colon. Methods of Administration. — Generally speaking, anthelmintics should be given when the alimentary canal is as empty as possible, and should be preceded and followed by a purgative. Thus a patient suffering from tape- worm should take a dose of castor oil in the morning, followed by a day's starvation (a cup of tea or a basin of clear soup may be allowed for breakfast and lunch). In the evening, 30 to 60 minims of extractum felicis liipiidum should be administered, preferably in capsules. (Jn the following morning a second dose of castor oil should be taken. Kousso and kamala are both gastro-intestinal irritants, and should not be administered to pregnant women. Pelletierine may be used as the tannate, in a dose of 8 grains, followed in two hours by an ounce of castor oil. For the removal of round worms (lumbrici) santonine is the most efficient agent. For a child of five or six years of age, 2 grains of santonine with 1 grain of calomel may be given every night for two or three nights, to be followed each morning by a pui'gative dose of castor oil. The treatment of thread worms (ascarides) may be a troublesome matter if the parasites are numerous. Santonine sl)ould be administered internally, as for lumbrici, and in addition, an- thelmintic enemata should be made use of. The colon should first be cleansed by an injection of warm water, to which borax or bicarbonate of soda (3j. to the pint) has been added. When this has come away, half a pint of bichloride solution (1 in 10,000) should be injected high into the bowel through a catheter, and retained for some time. Tliis may be repeated every second or third night. The folds of the anus should also be kept anointed with mercurial ointment, as this not only diminishes the itch- ing at night, but, by confining the worms to the bowel, lessens the risk of reinfection through the mouth, which is often brought about by the child scratching in the neighbourhood of the anus, and afterwards sucking its fingers. The folds of the genitals should also be anointed, as the scratching not infrequently sets up vul- vitis or vaginitis, and in some instances even leads to masturbation. It is important to bear in mind that cases should not be considered cm-ed until a careful examination of the stools warrants such an opinion. Anthemidis Flores. — Chamomile