AUDITORY NERVE AND LABYRINTH 332 from any of these, especially on exposure to cold either after working in a hot place, or when the menses are overdue. Gout and other diseases causing increased arterial tension favour its occurrence. Not being a fatal disease, the post- mortem observations are extremely few. In the typical case the haemorrhage may be presumed to plough up the endolymphatic elements of the cochlea and semicircular canals. Symptoms. — The patient is seized with a violent confusion and giddiness, so great as to upset his equilibrium, and make him drop down on the floor. He breaks out into a cold sweat and generally vomits. With this he experiences loud tinnitus in one ear, which he then or only later discovers to be quite deaf. On a hurried glance the case most resembles a " severe bilious attack," for which it is very frequently mistaken, until the patient discovers the deaf- ness of one ear, and the signs of nerve-deafness are detected (diminished or extinguished bone- conduction, negative " Weber," positive or most usually the paradoxical negative " Rinne," the loss of hearing, including tones of the highest pitch, etc.). The hearing is rarely recovered. Similar attacks, but of much slighter severity, may arise from sudden congestion or ansemia or from minute htemorrhages. These more re- semble epileptic seizures, but are to be dis- tinguished by the aural symptoms and by the absence of loss of consciousness. For some days, or even a number of weeks, the nausea and vertigo may necessitate the recumbent posture, and the patient may long remain sub- ject to sudden attacks of vertigo, causing him to fall, or in any case to catch hold of some support. Treatment.—The first point in the treatment is to diminish the violence of the nervous shock by placing the patient in the recumbent posi- tion in a quiet, darkened room, and administer- ing full doses of the bromide of potassium. Ice may be applied to the head, while the body and feet are kept warm. When the shock has passed off an endeavour should be made to induce absorption of the effusion by the admin- istration of pilocarpin, and of iodide of potas- sium. The former may be given hypodermically in doses increasing from yV to 3 or even ^ a grain daily, with precautions against chill during the perspiration and salivation which follow. The giddiness is best combated by means of quinine, and the writer's experience would lead him to consider such small doses as \ to 2 grains thrice daily, with 10 or 15 drops of dilute hydro- bromic acid, as efficacious as the larger ones and less objectionable. The quinine appears to act on the vestibular nerve as a direct sedative, and is particularly applicable to the after period, when the patient remains long subject to sudden vertiginous attacks on the slightest provocation. Mackenzie considers rise of pulse-tension the most frequent excitant, and recommends the taking of a dose of calomel on the occurrence of the slightest sensation of giddiness. Inflammation of the Labyrinth may be acute or chronic. Acute Labyrinthitis. — The most common forms arise from microbic invasion in the course of infectious diseases, such as scarlet fever, measles, diphtheria, or, in particular, mumps. Some cases arise by simultaneous invasion or by ex- tension from meningitis, either simple, tuber- cular or epidemic, others — primary simple labyrinthitis — without any such associations, and some follow injuries to the petrous bone. Again, it may occur as the result of extension from the middle ear, occasionally culminating in necrosis and possible extrusion of tlie labyrin- thine capsule as a whole or in part. Acute Primary Labyrinthitis is character- ised by the occurrence, along with high fever, of extreme vertigo, vomiting, pain in the deep parts of the ear and complete deafness. It is usually accompanied by severe mental disturb- ance and delirium, so as to be taken for menin- gitis, until the rapid subsidence of all the symptoms, with the exception of the absolute deafness, unsteadiness of gait, and tinnitus, negatives the idea. The deafness is of the nerve form, answering to the typical tuning- fork tests, unless indeed it is so absolute that no tests are available or necessary. Infectious Labyrinthitis in the course of a fever is characterised by the super-addition of the symptoms above mentioned to those of the existing disease, the subjective ones being of course only recognisable at the time if the patient's sensorium is sufficiently clear to allow of their being elicited. It is often only as the patient is recovering that the persistent deaf- ness and vertigo reveal the unfortunate occur- rence. Mbningitic Labyrinthitis, arising by exten- sion of inflammation from the meninges along the sheath of the auditory nerve, is practically undetectable until the meningitis subsides and a typical cochlear nerve-deafness remains. Acute Traumatic Labyrinthitis may be diagnosed when to the symptoms of concussion or fracture of the labyrinth there are super- added those of inflammation, increased pain, giddiness, and feverish disturbance. The treatment of acute labyrinthitis, as such, consists in giving the organ the greatest possible rest in a quiet room, with derivation to the bowels by aperients—calomel—and to the ex- tremities mustard leaves or hot bottles, while ice is applied to [,the head. Depletion should be practised by means of leeches behind the angle of the jaw. When the fever subsides pilocarpin, as above described, and iodide of potassium, should be administered. Blisters behind the ear are then of value. As regards the infectious forms prophylaxis during febrile attacks is of the greatest importance, especially