ANTHRAX 215 and alkaloids (ptomaines) which have been isolated by Sidney Martin and others. It differs from other bacterial toxines and ferments by being able to bear a temperature of 110° C. without entirely losing its virulence. In small doses it produces death in animals susceptible to anthrax, and does not affect those that ai-e refractory. Vaccination of susceptible animals with suit- able doses of this toxine is said to confer im- munity. The question, however, cannot be said to be settled. Hankin, Wesbrook, Martin, Brieger, and Fraenkel have isolated various albumoses, peptones, and alkaloids, which are more or less toxic. As it is doubtful whether those (iliservers had obtained all these sub- stances free from the toxine, discovered subse- quently by Marmier, it is difficult to say, in tlie present state of our knowledge, the part which they take in the evolution of the disease. VI. Immunity—Treatment—Prevention Artificial Immunity.—Pasteur's Method of preventive Vaccination.—One attack of anthrax followed by recovery usually protects susceptible animals against recurrence of the disease, much in the same way as an attack of small-pox or vaccinia (cow-pox) generally confers immunity from the disease. Pasteur between the years 1880 and 1882 announced that it was possible to reduce the virulence of various microbes by cultivating or keeping them under certain conditions, some of which have been mentioned above. With these less virulent organisms he was able to produce mild non-fatal attacks of disease which protected the inoculated animals against infection by the more virulent bacilli. He had thus found the means of producing, artificially, " vaccins," which acted much in the same way as does the vaccine lymph introduced by Jenner in connection with small-pox. The first im- portant practical application of this discovery was the method of vaccination against anthrax. Pasteur was not the first who had attempted to attain this result. Burdon Sanderson, Green- field, had tried to attenuate the virulence of the bacillus by passage through the guinea-pig. We have previously mentioned the methods of attenuation used by Toussaint, Chauveau, Arloing, Chamberland, and Roux, etc. The only method, however, which has been used on a large scale is that devised by Pasteur ; it is based on the attenuation of virulence and absence of spore formation in bacilli cultivated at a temperature between 42"' and 43" V. in the presence of air. A premier vaccin is obtained by cultivating the bacillus anthracis in bouillon for fifteen to twenty-four days, at a temperature of 42° to 43° C. The cultures so obtained should kill mice, but not produce a fatal illness in rabbits or guinea-pigs. The deuxicme vaccin is obtained by cultivating the bacillus under the same conditions, l)ut for ten or twelve days only. This vaccin kills mice and guinea-pigs, but does not produce a fatal illness in adult rabbits. A sheep inoculated subcutancously with 5 drops of the premier vaccin, and rcinoculatcd twelve days later with the deuxicme vaccin, can be inoculated two weeks after the second protective inoculation with a virulent culture of the bacillus anthracis without serious effects being produced, as a rule. A vaccinated animal is usu;dly protected for a subsequent period of ;d)out twelve months against ordinary forms of infection. • It is obvious that this method of protective inoculation depends for its safety and efficiency on a very careful preparation, and testing of the p)remier and deuxihne vaccins. Serious losses have resulted from want of attention to these points, and doulits have been thrown on the value of this metliod. French statistics show that a great diminution of mortality from the disease has taken place in France since the introduc- tion of Pasteur's vaccination against anthrax. Several German and English authorities are, however, unfavourable to the method, which some of them consider either useless or dangerous. Serum Anti-c}iai'Jionneux.—After rabbits and sheep have been rendered immune to small quantities of virulent anthrax bacilli, it is pos- sible by injecting at intervals gradually increas- ing doses of the virulent cultures to render them capable of resisting very large doses of the virus. Thus Marchoux has shown that one may, under these conditions, ultimately inject under the skin of a sheep as much as 250 to 300 cubic centimetres of virulent cultures of anthrax. When an animal has been rendered i-efractory to that extent, it is found that its blood serum, obtained two or three weeks after the last injection of virulent bacilli, has acquired preventive and curative properties. Thus, if 1 cubic centimetre of the serum is injected to a rabbit twenty-four hom-s before inoculating it with virulent anthrax bacilli, the rabbit may resist the inoculation. The injection of the serum after infection, though not always effec- tive, is apparently beneficial, and the " scrum anti-charbonneux " is thought to have not only a preventive but also a curative action. Treatment of Anthrax.—Man offers a much greater resistance to anthrax infection than do cattle and sheep ; this must be kept account of in estimating the value of reports of cures claimed to have been obtained liy the most divergent methods. External anthrax is undoubtedly amenable to local treatment before the bacilli have spread far through the lymphatics or reached the blood- stream. Extirpation by the knife or by the i thermocautery, cauterisation by the actual I cautery or hy escharotics, have all been recom-