412 BLOOD, PHYSIOLOGY AND CLINICAL INVESTIGATION OF body, partly to their altered vascular distribu- tion, and in part to increased activity of bone marrow, as shown by the appearance of young red cells in the blood. Miescher believed that this latter cause was an important one. He emphasised the lowered oxygen tension in the blood as the specific formative stimulus. At the commencement of residence at high altitudes there is no increase either in the amount of haemoglobin or in the total volume of the red cells, there is simply a greater surface area of hajmogiobin-holding cells exposed in order to accommodate the organism to the low atmo- spheric pressure. One must remember that under these conditions other etiological factors come into play; for example, the action of the intense light, increased rapidity of respiration, and increase in muscular exercise. It seems most likely that after prolonged residence at high altitudes there is an absolute increase in the total number of the red cells, at the outset simply a relative polj^cythsemia due to increased water excretion. White Blood Corpuscles.—These cells are from many points of view the most important ones in the blood, as variations in their number or characters are frequently the most distinctive signs of pathological variations in tlie blood- formative parts. At no time has a greater diversity of opinion existed than at present as to the proper classification of those occurring normally in the blood or passing into it owing to changes in the blood itself or in the marrow or organs containing lymphoid tissue. A very prevalent view at the present day is that all forms of the white corpuscles arise from the small lymphocytes, and that transition forms, showing the necessary alterations in nuclear structure and cytoplasm, can be distinguished between these cells and the so-called fully-formed poly- morphic neutrophilous leucocyte. Others hold that the lymphocytes and the granular cells have in adult life a separate origin and life-history, that the adult lymphocyte has no connection with the polymorphic granular leucocyte. Here a very short description will be given of the different types to be met with in the normal blood of the adult, then those which pass in under different pathological conditions ; and finally, when speak- ing of the development of these cells, a brief survey will be taken of the views in support of the two theories just referred to. 1. Small lymphocytes.—These are small cells, as a rule about the size of a normal red corpuscle, containing a large, round, usually centrally placed nucleus which stains more or less homo- geneously. The zone of protoplasm around the nucleus is very small in amount, and frequently difficult to make out. The cytoplasm after the action of some stains seems more basophil than the nucleus. These cells are not amoeboid. 2. Large lymphocytes or hyaline cells have many points in common with the former, and represent in all probability their more adult forms. They are usually twice or three times the size of the erythrocytes, and contain a large nucleus which is poorer in chromation than that of the small lymphocyte, and which frequently shows indentation or even fragmentation. The protoplasm reacts strongly alkaline to erythrosin. There is never so distinct granulation in these cells as occurs in the granular forms, although the cytoplasm frequently shows differentiation in preparations stained with methylene blue, probably due to the spongioplastic network. Frequently the zone of protoplasm around the nucleus is irregidar, and may show signs of degeneration. As far as can be made out, the life-history of this cell ends with the fragmenta- tion of its nucleus. It is exceedingly difficult to find any sign of a definite transition between this cell and the polymorphic neutrophilous. The properties of the chromatin and the cyto- plasm in the two forms are so different that it is difficult to imagine a transition of the one into the other. 3. There is a type of cell, especially referred to by Ehrlich, which is difficult to characterise both as to its relationship to the other forms and to its place of origin, namely, the large MONONUCLEATED LEUCOCYTE. It is about the same size as the large lymphocyte, but possesses more protoplasm which contains no graniiles, but is always distinctly less basophil than that of the lymphocyte. The nucleus is round or oval, and stains faintly with nuclear dyes. It undergoes indentation, then the chromatin be- comes denser, and finally neutrophilous granules begin to appear in the cytoplasm, which gradu- ally loses its basophil properties. This cell is almost certainly formed in the bone marrow. 4. Polymorpjhic {Polymorphonuclear^ Neutro- jihilous Leucocytes.—These constitute the largest proportion of the leucocytes present in normal blood. They are undoubtedly for the most part myelogenic. There are two distinct points which characterise these cells : in the first place, the peculiarly irregular arrangement of the chromatin, the nucleus presenting a nodulated appearance, frequently in the form of an irregular E, S, or Z; and secondly, the appear- ance of very n\imerous neutrophilous or finely eosinophilous granules. The nucleus may break down into two or more fragments, render- ing the cell polynuclear. In only the rarest instances (and even these not sufficiently well- defined) have other types of granules, such as coarse eosinophilus, been described as occurring along with the neutrophilous. The nucleus is practically always rich in chromatin. These are the typical amoeboid leucocytes which wander out into the tissues in acute inflamma- tion and go to form the pus corpuscles. 5. The trtie eosinophilous leucocytes are charac- terised by their coarse, highly refractile granules, which are, in man at least, practically always i