AMPUTATIONS 127 difficult when performed for injury. Many methods have been proposed for preventing haemorrhage, one of the great dangers of the operation. Among these may be men- tioned gripping of the flap by an assistant; Lister's abdominal tourniquet; Esniarch's plan of applying an elastic bandage roiuid the abdomen with a large pad in front; manual compression of the abdominal aorta. Davy introduced a lever into the rectum to exert pressure on the common iliac artery. Ab- dominal pressure may be satisfactory, but efficient femoral pressure, where it can be carried out, is preferable. If the thigh is large and muscular the use of the skewer may be strongly recommended. The skewer is intro- duced at the level of the trochanter, and a figure-of-eight of elastic tubing is applied in front and behind. This method apparently arrests the htemorrhage. It has been revived in America, and called Wyeth's method. It has been used in the Edinburgh school for a quarter of a century. When the thigh is not very muscidar the patient is laid on the sound side and a piece of bandage laid along the lateral edge of the body. A piece of tubing is then passed round the thigh, over the bandage, and as far up as possil)le. After the tubing has been tied the bandage is carried over it and given to an assistant to hold. The soft tissues and bone are divided below the level of the trochanter minor and the vessels tied. The elastic tubing- is now removed, and the remaining portion of the femur excised by means of a vertical incision over the trochanter major. The one objection to this method is that in the case of malignant tumours too much muscle may be left. This may be avoided by making the first incision through the skin, and dividing the muscles at a higher level. This is practically an example of the racket method. Drainage is carried out through the outer vertical incision. Amputation at the hip-joint may also be carried out by anterior and posterior flaps. The flaps are cut by transfixion. The anterior flap is cut first. The joint is opened, the head of the bone is turned out, and then the posterior flap is cut. This method was employed in the pre-anaes- thetic days on account of its rapidity. Amputations of the Upper Extremity Hand.—Cicatrices on the grasping surface are to be avoided. A man's hand depends for its beauty and usefulness, firstly, on its breadth, and, secondly, upon the opposing power of the thumb to the fingers. Therefore, in operating on this part of the body one must avoid inter- fering with the breadth of the hand. In rela- tion to the opposing power of the thumb to the other fingers it is desirable to interfere as little as possible with the muscular attachments; the operation, therefore, should as far as possible be subperiosteal. Amputation of the Middle Finger.—The books describe a racket-shaped incision. With such an incision, when consolidation takes place, there is a tendency to dislocation backwards of the meta- carpal bone. Sooner or later contraction occurs, and the lireadth of the hand is lessened. There is also the objection of a cicatrix on the palm. The operation I prefer is as follows : Enter the knife at the knuckle, pass down to the web, and then along the side of the finger, cutting a large palmar flap. In cases where the flap cannot be got from the palmar aspect it may be obtained from one or other side. With such a flap there is a posterior cicatrix and no tendency to trans- verse contraction. Amputation of the Fore and Little Fingers.— In these operations the head of the metacarpal bone should be left. The best way to get a covering for the head of the bone is to make a racket-shaped incision, beginning in the fore- finger on the radial edge, and in the little finger on the ulnar edge. The incision is to be carried round the finger at a lower level than the web — practically at the middle of the first phalanx. This gives the most useful hand, but the pro- jection is unseemly. When the patient does not require to use the hand much a portion of the head of the metacarpal bone may be taken off obliquely, and the hand will be smaller. The general rule is to save as much as possible. Partial Amjmtatioyi of the Fingers.-—A cica- trix on the palmar aspect of the finger is to be avoided. The most satisfactory flap is a long palmar flap, l)ut in many cases one must take the flaps where they can be got. In amputating at the first interphalangeal joint many surgeons say there will be no movement of the stump because the tendons are divided. This danger can be best avoided by fixing the tendons to the periosteum covering the bone. Amputation of the Thumb.—The more one can save in these cases the greater will be the grasp- ing powder. Sometimes one requires to remove the thumb plus the metacarpal bone. In such cases a racket-incision with a long handle to the racket is to be made ; or a method formerly employed—cutting an anterior flap l)y trans- fixion may be adopted. Amputation at the Wrist-Joint.—This opera- tion is best carried out by making an anterior flap and turning it up, so as to get a posterior cicatrix and a stump on which the patient can bear pressure. Amputation through the Forearm and Upper Arm.—Here no hard and fast rules need be laid down. In order to save as much of the limb as possible the flaps must be taken where they can be got. In many cases a modified circular method is the best. In some cases one can obtain a long anterior or a long posterior flap; in others, lateral flaps. In amputating imme-