I as abdominal tumours. ABDOMINAL Splenic Artery. — Tlie aneurysniB of the splenic artery form a peculiar group, inasmuch as one finds several, and as, in most recorded cases, the aneurysm, about the size of an egg or orange, had a hai'd, calcareous covering, and communicated only by means of a small opening with the artery. The contents of the sac are soft, putty-like, like the contents of a sebaceous tumour. For this form of aneurj^sm Corvisart designed the name of cystogenous aneurysm. These aneurysms are small, they give rise to few symptoms (Turner, Path. Trans, vol. xxxvi. p. 151), and terminate by rupture into the peritoneal cavity or into splenic vein (Weigert, Virchou/s Arch. vol. civ. 1886), or are found accidentally after death (Davidson, Liverpool Med.-Chir. Journ. 1884, p. 210). Goodhardt {Path. vol. xl. p. 67) describes a case of arterio- venous aneurysm which had caused thrombosis of the mesenteric vein and a localised colitis {Lancet, 1885, vol. i. p. 518); rupture took place into the stomach in Osier's case {Montreal Gen. Hosp. Rep. 1880, 1). A branch of the splenic artery, the gastro-epiploica sinistra, has in rare cases been found the seat of aneurysm in connection with a gastric ulcer. Hepatic Artery.—Above twenty cases of this affection have been recorded. The aneurysm may reach a large size (size of fist or more); it is either situated between liver and small curva- ture of stomach, occasionally it forms a tumour in the situation of the gall-bladder, in other cases it was found on the under surface of the liver. Amongst the symptoms it gives rise to we may mention—pain of a severe character, •often paroxysmal, jaundice, and luemorrhage in the form of melaena or hsematemesis, which may go on for some time. The aneurysm, which in its symptoms may simulate gall-stones or duodenal ulcer, finally ruptures either into the peritoneal cavity, or duodenum, or gall- bladder, or into the biliary duct, or it may give rise to multiple abscesses in the liver. For literature up to 1886 see Caton {Clin. Soc. Journal, 1886, p. 275) ; the more recent ■cases are recorded by Mester {Zeitsch. f. liin. Med. 1895, vol. xxviii.) : Schmidt {Deutsch. Arch.f. Jclin. Med. 1893-94, vol. lii.). Mesenteric Arteries.—The superior is much more often affected tlian the inferior. (I find a record of twenty cases of the former and of five of the latter.) Several of the cases recorded are due to embolism ; and the principal symptom noticed has been haemorrhage from the bowels ; in Gairdner's case {ifonth. Journ. of Med. Science, London and Edinburgh, 1850) the aneurysm ruptured into the duodenum, and caused h;cma- temesis from time to time, thus simulating gastric ulcer ; the patient died many months after from ruptui'e of the aneurysm into the peritoneal cavity; B. Yeo {Path. Trans. 1877, vol. xxviii. p. 94) describes a case in which both renal artei'ies were compressed, and the patient ANEURYSM 21 died from renal coma. Other cases are given by Ogle, Lancet, 1857, ii. 87; Gull, ibid. 1859, V. 484 ; Wilks, Path. Trans. 1859-60, xi. p. 44 ; Galloway, I'ath. Trans. 1890-91, xlii. p. 78. Of aneurysm of the inferior mesenteric artery we have records by Peacock, Path. Trans. 1861, xii. p. 73; Rodet (ulcer, ulcerative endocarditis), Mem. Soc. de Sc. med. de Lyon, 1864, iii. 155; Cockle, Lancet, 1864, vol. i. No. 18. Renal Artery.—I find twelve recorded cases of aneurysm of renal artery (small aneurysms, according to Osier, are not uncommon). They are diffuse, and a tumour could in some cases be made out, but not always pulsation. Death occurred from rupture either into the peritoneal cavity or retro-peritoneal tissue, or into the pelvis of the kidney, producing htematuria. Hahn {Deutsch. med. Wochensch. 1894, No. 32) describes a case of aneurysm of a branch of the renal arteiy which simulated cancer of the kidney, and in which removal of the kidney brought about complete recovery. Several of the recorded cases (Gruber, Wie7i. med. Woch- ensch. 1891, xli. p. 1646; Turner, Path. Trans. 1884-85, xxxvi. 277; Illich, Riforma med. vii. pt. 2, p. 481, etc.) were of traumatic origin. Spermatic Artery (see Oliver, Cincin. Lancet, 189.3, N.s. XXX. 197). Phrenic Artery.—Only one case recorded. Dean, " Aneurysm of the Left Phrenic Artery," St. Louis Med. and S. Journal, 1884, xlvi. p. 47. Abdominal Operations, Tech- nique of. See Appendix Vermiformis ; Bladuer, Injuries and Diseases of; Ectopic Gbstatkjn ; Intestines, Surgical Affections OF; Labour, Injuries to the Generative Organs ; Labour, Operations, C/Esarean Sec- tion ; Ovaries, Diseases of ; Pelvis, H.ema- TOCBLE ; Peritoneum, Peritonitis ; Uterus, Non-Malignant Tumours of, and Malignant Tumours of. Abdominal Tumours, Dia- S^nosis of. Introduction . . . . . .21 General Observations . . . .22 Tumours of Parietes . . . .22 Tumours of Abdominal Contents . . 22 See also Gynecology, Diagnosis in ; Preg- nancy, Diagnosis of. It is not an easy matter to decide as to the proper limits of the term " abdominal tumour." Pathologically the word "tumour" is used in reference to a proliferating growtii or neoplasm, but clinically it is convenient, at any rate in the case of the abdomen, to use the word in a wider sense, applying it not only to a neoplasm, but to an abscess, to a cyst, and even to a simple enlargement of an organ. Thus a dilated stomach, a hydronephrosis, an abscess of the liver, and a floating kidney are often sfioken of