66 ADRENAL GLANDS disease would occur more often in families with a markedly tuberculous taint, but this is not as yet established. It is true that it has on two or three occasions been seen to occur in members of the same family (Andrewes, Schwab), and I have had imder my own care a woman probably suflPering from this disease, whose sister had died from it, and whose suprarenal capsules were examined after death. Besides traiuuatism and blows on the back it is possible that hajmor- rhages occurring into the medulla of the adrenal glands either at or after birth may so lower the resistance of the adrenal bodies as to render them more liable to tubercvdous infection ; while the organisation of blood-clot might lead to fibrosis and subsequent atrophy of the active portions of the glands, and so to Addison's disease of a non - tuberculous origin. In a number of cases tuberculous infection has been foimd to spread by continuity from tuberculous osteitis of the vertebra;. It may be associated with tuberculous disease elsewhere, especially in the lungs, and in children it is said to be fre- quently accompanied by tuberculous affections of the mesenteric glands. On the other hand, the only tuberculous foci in the body may be in the adrenal bodies. Morbid Anatomy.—In his original memoir Addison described cases of tuberculous disease, of malignant disease of the adrenal bodies, one case of atrophy and fibrosis, and one case of a nodule of growth blocking the right adrenal vein with haemorrhage into the gland. He then expressed his belief that the characteristic symptoms were due to interference with the function of the glands, however brought about, and not to the lesion being of any particular nature. Sir Samuel Wilks, who early interested him- self in Addison's discovery, paid special attention to the morbid anatomy of the disease, and be- came convinced that the lesion was always of the same kind, and that it was a primary in- flammation comparable to hepatic cirrhosis. From his descriptions it is plain that the condi- tion would now be regarded as tuberculous. This view, which may be called the Unity of Addison's disease. Dr. Addison appears later to have been inclined to adopt. Dr. Greenhow also supported this view, and no doubt the great majority of cases are of this nature ; there is, however, a minority in which other lesions are present. It will be convenient to describe seriatim the various conditions that have been met with in Addison's disease. 1. The Tuberculous Fibro-caseous Change. —This is found in from seventy-four to eighty per cent of the cases, and is in most instances bilateral; but contrary to what is sometimes said, a lesion of one adrenal body may give rise to classical symptoms of the disease, in fact this was so in one of Addison's original cases. On the other hand, caseous tubercle may be found in both glands in cases of death from other causes without any corresponding symptoms having been present. The tuberculous process begins in the medulla by the appearance of discrete tubercles; these coalesce, and a mass of tuberculous granulation tissue, which is at first rather vascular and may appear somewhat pink on section, results. This stage is of short duration, and caseation soon supervenes; the medulla then appears firm, cheesy, and white. The tuberculous process is more marked as a rule near the hilum of the gland, and does not necessarily affect the whole of the medulla. After a time it spreads to the cortex, which, in like manner, becomes replaced by caseous material. The gland is then increased in size and weight and altered in shape. The tuberculous inflammation often extends to the adjacent tissues and leads to firm adhesions, which may involve the semilunar ganglia and solar plexus ; in this waj' pain in the back may be set up. The caseous material may become compressed by the surrounding cicatricial tissue, which contracts upon it and may, as time goes on, undergo infiltration with calcareous salts. On the other hand, softening may occur, and the glands may be mere sacs of caseous pus. Tubercle bacilli have often been demonstrated, but by no means always. It is probable that they may die, and that in this way injection of the material into guinea-pigs, as performed by Delepine, may fail to lead to tuberculosis. It is, however, conceivable that some isolated cases of fibro-caseous change in the adrenal glands are due to syphilis and are gummatous. 2. Simple Atrophy has been recorded in some well-authenticated cases, and may be so extreme that the only trace found on most minute examination is a slight yellowish pigmentation of the fat, suggesting in shadowy outline the form of the adrenal bodies; in other instances the glands have been described as being absent. 3. In some cases a process of Atrophy with Chronic Fibrosis is found without any evidence of tuberculous activity. The late Dr. Haddon compared this lesion to that seen in the thyroid gland in myxcedema. 4. In Malignant Disease involving the adrenal bodies the typical clinical picture of Addison's disease is generally not presented; but some or all of the sjjecial symptoms, pig- mentation, asthenia, gastric disturbance, are occasionally seen, and are no doubt due, in part at least, to the adrenal bodies being involved. When secondary malignant growths of the adrenal bodies are present the primary growths may give rise to symptoms which mask or throw into the shade those due to the affection of the adrenal bodies. Sometimes symptoms like those of Addison's disease supervene in the course of adrenal malignant disease, just as pernicious