7 ABDOMEN, INJURIES OF thirst, and vomiting—with or without abdo- minal distension—are amongst the most char- acteristic of the symptoms. The vomit, at first, consists of the contents of the stomach ; wliich, later, are mixed with bile. If the patient lives long enoTigh—generally some time during the second day—the vomit may become fiEcal; but tins is usually a concomitant of the peritonitis which has developed as a result of the extravasation of the intestinal contents: such extravasation occurs in seventy per cent of the cases. Constipation is generally present, and tym- panitic distension from the escape of gas into the peritoneal cavity may lead to a diminution of the liver dulness, as in the case of rupture of the stomach. The presence of free gas in the peritoneal cavity in cases of gastro-intestinal ruptui'es is also said to produce a greater dis- tinctness in the heart-sounds and i-espiratorj' murmur over the abdomen. The application of IScnn's hydrogen gas test (p. 11) rrctwin, may be used for diagnostic purposes. Blood may appear in the stools in rupture of any part of the gastro-intestinal tract; but, as it generally' occurs late, it is not of nuich value in diagnosis. In ruptTires of the duodemuii and colon, extra- vasation of fteces may occiu- behind the peri- toneum and lead to the formation of an abscess. These symptoms usually occur in association with ruptures at the time of the accident; but in some cases they are delayed for some days, and are then due to a perforative ulceration as a result of a previous contusion. Most cases of ruptured intestine die within two days; the mortality, without operation, being 96 per cent. Lesions of the Omentum niid Mesentery.— Injuries of these parts are usually accompanied by severe collapse from intra-peritoneal haemor- rhage—the symptoms of which liave been already considered. Of fifteen cases of laceration of the mesentery collected by Ciu'tis, all but three were fatal within twenty-four hours. Should death not occiu' from lucmorrhage, thrombosis of the mesenteric vessels may lead to gangrene of the bowel. Lesions of the Liver.—A rujiture of the liver may be inferred if there is great pain in the right hypochondrium radiating to the scapular region, superficial respiration, increase in the area of liver dulness, and signs of a gradually increas- ing intra-abdominal hfemori-hage—more mai'ked locally at fii'st on the right side. Extreme pallor and collapse are usually present. Jaundice may appear if the patient lives more than twenty- four hours, and glycosuria has been said to occur. If death does not result from shock or hi'emorrhage, an abscess may form in the neigh- bourhood of the rent, or a more or less general peritonitis may ensue. The late development of many of the symptoms renders the diagnosis some- what difficult. Though very serious, rupture of the liver is by no means always fatal — the mortality, without operation, being about 85 per cent. Lesions of the Gall-Bladder or Biliary Ducts. —These injuries are rarely capable of separate diagnosis from the rupture of tlie liver, which tiiey usually complicate. There may be jaundice, dark-coloured urine, and clay-coloured stools, if the bile is poured out into the abdominal cavity through a torn duct. The escape of bile within the peritoneum may, in exceptional cases, be recognised by the signs of free or encysted fluid in the abdomen. Edler gives the general mortality of these cases as 74*2 per cent—death commonly occurring from peritonitis. I^esions of the Spleen. — In rupture of this organ there is great pain in the left hypo- chondrium, and increase in the area of splenic dulness. The symptoms of severe internal Inemorrhage are usually well-marked. In ex- tensive laceration death quickly occurs from lucmorrhage into the general peritoneal cavity : but in other cases the blood may be extrava- sated into the distensible capsule of the spleen, and the fatal issue may be considerably delayed or averted. In the latter case an abscess may subsequently develop. Rupture of the spleen usually occurs with other abdominal injuries, but in imcomplicated cases the mortality is said to be about 65 per cent. Jjesions of the L^ancrens.—It is not jiossible to mention any symptoms specially referable to rupture of this viscus, as it has always occurred in connection witli severe injury to other organs, and death has speedily resulted. Lesions of the Great Vessels.—Complete rupture of the larger vessels will be associated with rapid and severe collapse from extravasation of blood. Should death not occur from hsemorrhage, or should the laceration not involve all the coats, gangrene may set in ; or an aneurysm may subsequently develop. Lesions of the Kidney, Ureter, or Urinary Bladder.—These will be considered under their respective headings. All that can be said here is that the presence of h;ematuria may suggest tiie possibility of rupture of one or other of these organs. Prognosis. — Abdominal injuries associated with rujjture of the viscera are, as we have seen, fatal in the great majority of cases ; but, by timely operation, if the condition of collapse is not so severe as to render it unjustifiable, many of them can be saved from death : thus, of 62 abdominal sections for rupture of viscera collected by Sieur there were 38 cases of rupture of the intestine, with 20 recoveries : 17 cases of rupture of the liver, with 7 recoveries; and 7 cases of rupture of the spleen, with 1 recovery. The mortality in these cases of rupture of the spleen seems unduly high, for Ledderhose records 28 cases of jiartial or complete siilenectomy for injury to the spleen, all of which recovered.