40 ACHONDROPLASIA described as achondroplasia by good authorities, it seems ahnost certain that they are examples of a different disease—possibly of real intra- uterine rickets. When the child grows up, the disproportion between his body and limbs becomes even more noticeable. The head remains relatively large ; the nose generally presents a depression at its root, and the lower jaw is apt to be luiderhung. The tendency for the tongue to be protruded does not, however, persist. When the child learns to walk, the gait is peculiarly waddling, and a deep lumbar lordosis develops. When the arms are by the side, the fingei'-tips reach to a little below the iliac crests in women, and to about the level of the trochanter in men. The whole lower limb is about the length of a normal thigh. The epiphysial ends of the long- bones expand very abruptly. Adults usually measure from 3| feet or less to a little over 4 feet. Should a dwarf of this type become preg- nant, the extreme narrowness of the pelvis generally necessitates operative interference. Typical photographs of adults have been pxib- lished by Boeckh, Herman, Porak, J. Thomson, and others. Diagnosis.—At hirth the deformity already described forms a picture which is easily recog- nised. The appeai'ance of these infants has often been termed " cretinoid," and aptly enough, because they are certainly like cretins in several particulars; but it is to be observed that the likeness is to adult cretins, and not to cretin babies. In infancy even severe cases of sporadic cretinism do not present much dis- proportion of the limbs and trunk, nor yet the typical physiognomy of the disease, except to a very slight degree. The achondroplasic adult differs distinctly from the rickety dwarf in ha^^ng all his limbs equally shortened, and in the shortening of his hands and the peculiar divergence of his fingers. He also presents a striking absence of rickety distortion in the spine, thorax, and head. On inquiry it will usually be found that the achon- droplasic cut his teeth early, and was not late in learning to walk, while rickety dwarfs have almost always been very backward in both these particvilars. From cretins, adult achondroplasics may be readily distinguished by the normal tempera- ture and texture of their skin, their muscular and intellectual vigour, and the nattiral develop- ment of their sexual organs. Treatment is out of the question. The administration of thyroid substance has no effect on the retarded growth. Achorion Schonleinii. See Favus. Achromatopsia. — Complete colour- blindness. See Colour Vision. AchromatOSiS. See Aluinism. Achromia.—Decoloration of the skin, such as occurs in vitiligo and albinism (q.v.). AchrOOdextrinS. — Dextrins w^hich give no colour with iodine ; ultimate products of the digestive action of saliva on starch. See Physiology (Digestion). Achyiia Gastrica. — Deficiency of gastric juice. See Stomach, Diseases of. Acids and Acidity. See Blooc; Digestion and Metabolism ; Gout ; Indiges- tion ; Pharmacology ; Prescribing ; Stomach, Diseases of ; and Urine, Pathological Changes in. Acids, Poisoning: by. See Toxi cology. Acinesia Aig^era.—A neurosis charac- terised by loss of power of movement with sensibility to pain. Synonyms : akinesia algera ; acinesia dolorosa ; apraxia algera. Acireaie. See Balneology {Italy). Acme.—The point of extreme violence of fuiy disease ; the crisis. See Temperature. Acne. Acne vulgaris ...... 40 Acne varioliformis . . . . .42 Acne rosacea ...... 42 Treatment ...... 43 See also Bromism ; LiVer, Diseases of {Cir- rhosis); Nephritis; Rheumatism,Chronic; Skin, Bacteriology of ; Stomach, Diseases of ; and Sycosis. Under the generic name Acne the older French school Tinited nearly every pathological form which was supposed to be a functional or structural disorder of the sebaceous system. Modern investigations have tended more and more to break up such a group, so that the term "acne" is now generally reserved for a limited number of affections. Kaposi, however, includes an A. disseminata or vulgaris, varioli- formis, cachecticorum, artificialis (from local irritants, such as tar) ; acne from the ingestion of iodides and bromides (iododerma and bromo- derma pustulo-tuberosum, Unna); acne rosacea, and sycosis (A. mentagra). Unna adopts the old narrower definition of acue, which represents a single variety of folliculitis, and expressly excludes folliculitides of other origin. We shall consider here only the conmion acne, A. varioli- formis, and rosacea. Acne vulgaris (Fuchs), Acne disseminata (Kaposi).—Acrie vulgaris is an affection chiefly of certain definite regions of the skin, viz. the face (forehead, nose, cheeks), the external ears, neck, upper part of the trunk on both aspects, and, more rarely, the whole back and even limbs, occurring during the period of puberty and usually tending to disappear with complete