ACNE 44 pasta zinci sulphurata consists of equal parts of oxide of zinc, precipitated sulphur, terra silicea, and benzoated lard. Tliei'e are very few better preparations than Wilsoris liypochloride of su/- phur ointment : — Sulphuris Hj-perchlor. . . 3ss.-3ij- Potassii Carbonatis . . . gr. x. Adepis Benzoat ad . . • 31- Perchloride of mercury lotions are cleanly, but the possibility of poisoning by prolonged use must be kept in mind, and its incompati- bility with sulpluir. In obstinate cases, and where the patient can give himself up to the treatment, peeling pastes have been used in recent years : for instance, Lassar recommends /ii-naphthol, lO'O ; precipi- tated sulphur, 50"0 ; vaseline and green soap, of each 20-25*0, to be spread on, and wiped off with a soft rag after fifteen or twenty minutes, and then the skin powdered with talc. After two or three applications some inflammation is set up and the horny layers peel oft". A 50 per cent resorcin paste is also effective. Unna makes use of an acetic acid paste, for example, terra silicea, 10*0; glycerine, 25-0; concentrated acetic acid and resorcin, of each 2'5. Where suppurating lesions exist, the pus— and a bead is often embedded in a solid-looking lesion—must be let out by a bistoury, lancet, tenotomy knife, etc., and the incised parts sterilised by a parasiticide. For the obstinate special lesions, called acne indurata, free incision or multiple puncturing is practised, or the application of a drop of pure liquid carbolic acid, followed by a painting with flexile collodion. They sometimes yield to biniodide of mercury ointment (grs. v.-xx. ad gj.), and also to the application of resolvent plasters, such as em- plastrum hydrarg. comp. In severe A. pustulosa and indurata cases, excellent results are claimed from the opei'ation of free cui-etting and scarification, but I have rarely found this necessary. The belladonna ointment recommended by Stephen Mackenzie is certainly most useful for the larger inflam- matory nodosities seen in some cases, as on the back. Acne varioliformis, in my experience, is largely controlled by the internal administration of arsenic. The treatment usually I'elied on is an external one on much the same lines as tliat for acne. The skin and follicles are kept disinfected as far as possible, and resolvents, in the shape of mercurial or sulphur ointments and pastes, are most in favour. In Rosacea the causes of the hyperaimia of the face must be determined and dealt with. If direct, as in those exposed to fire heat and the changes of the weather, they must be pre- vented as far as possible. If of gastro-intestinal origin, such disorder must be cai'efully defined and treated accordingly, dietetically and medici- nally. Frequently a degree of gastritis exists, and bismuth is one of the most commonly useful medicines. The alcoholic cases are unsatisfactory, as the cause is apt to be constantly in operation. Reflex hyperajmia from disorders of the genital apparatus is also likely to prove troublesome, especially when dependent on some chronic trouble, as ovaritis or metritis, or when occurring in association with the menopause. The range of ti'eatment is also obviously wide. In, still another series of cases the hypertemia appears to be due to an excitable and unstable state of the vaso-motor system of the face, so that the face flushes under very slight stimuli. In addition to the specific measures indicated for the relief of local gastro-intestinal and genital trouble, we seek to diminish the reflex excit- ability by such medicines as bromide of potassium, and to control the hypertemia by such drugs as ergot and the proprietary sulphur compound known as ichthyol. A course of the latter is often of value, and salicin also promises to be useful. The cyanotic conditions, some- times localised to the nose, arising from a feeble circulation, are not so apt to be associated with the inflammatory elements, and ai'e difficult to control. Every effort, however, should be made in the way of local stimulation and the pro- motion of the general nutrition and circulation. The local treatment is directed to (1) the con- trol of hyperaomia; (2) the subduing of inflam- mation ; (3) the management of pus formation; (4) the obliteration of dilated veins. Where hyperjemia is a prominent symptom, cooling, evaporating, and soothing astringent lotions, such as lotio calaminaris, and lead and spirit lotion (if sulphur is not also used), are called for, and are also useful as a day application when more active treatment is carried out at night. Inflammation, such as seborrhceic catarrh, must be controlled by sulphur, resorcin, salicylic acid, ichthyol, or mercurial lotions, ointments, or pastes, such as are recommended in acne vulgaris. Pustules should be opened and fomented with hot boric acid lotions. In inveterate cases with considerable thickening it is sometimes desirable to scarify areas or to curette inflammatory lesions. Telangiectases are easily destroyed by electrolysis, or more rouglily by incising them. There is a form which must be included with rosacea, in which large papulo-pustules recur on some portion of the skin, such as the chin or one cheek, or the nose, independently of any hyperaemia. The condition is much intensified at the menstrual epochs, and is often extremely obstinate and annoying. The tumour formation of the nose, known as Rhinophyma, demands surgical treatment by ablation or decortication and subsequent grafting by Thiersch's method. Slighter forms may be treated by scarification or by Lassar's method of multiple piuicturing. He mounts forty