ANKLE-JOINT, REGION OF—INJURIES AND DISEASES 201 II. DISEASES See also Joints ; Tendon Jerks ; Tuber- culosis. Simple Synovitis. — Acute synovitiy is of frequent occui'rence in the ankle-joint. It may be due to sprains or wrenches of the joint, to excessive use of the Hinb, or possibly to external cold. For symptoms and treatment see " Sprains of the Ankle." Septic Synovitis.—Serous effusion into the ankle-joint is occasionally met with in the course of gonorrhoea, syphilis (secondary stage), acute specific fevers (especially scarlatina and enteric fever), and pyaemia. Such cases are sometimes classed together under the term Septic Tn.jinm- mations of the Spiovlal memhrane. They appear to be due to toxines produced by bacterial action, which circulate in the blood and impair the nutrition of various parts of the body. Some of these cases will be mentioned later when speaking of the joint-complications of the diseases in which they occur. It is necessary to mention that occasionally gonorrhoea, the acute fevers, and especially pyajmia, give rise to suppurative arthritis, an affection which is quite distinct from septic synovitis. Acute Suppurative Arthritis.—Acute sup- purative arthritis of the ankle may arise from one of the following causes :—(1) Wounds of the joint, which give access to pyogenic organisms. (2) Pya;mia. (3) During the course of scarla- tina, enteric fever, small-pox, gonorrhoea, and puerperal fever, in all of which it is prol^ably of pyajmic origin. (4) By extension of acute sup- purative inflammation—infective periostitis or osteomyelitis—from the bones of the leg. The acute arthritis of infants, which sometimes in- volves the ankle-joint, commences as an acute inflammation of the growing tissues of the dia- physis immediately beneath the epiphysial cartilage ; pus forms rapidly and may extend to the joint. (5) By extension of suppuration from the surroiniding soft parts. In the earlier stages of the disease the syno- vial membrane is inflamed, but later it takes on the characters of graiuilation-tissue. The carti- lages become softened, eroded, and more or less destroyed. The ends of the bones, when cxjjosed by destruction of the cartilage, become the seat of rarefactive osteitis. The ligaments are infil- trated and softened, and the surrounding parts are likewise involved in the inflammatory process. The onset of this aft'ection may be marked by a rigor. The local signs are rapidly increasing swelling, iieat, redness, and severe pain. Any movement gives rise to intense suffering. The constitutional symptoms are those of very severe fever. After a time the presence of pus may be recognised by redema of the skin and fluctua- tion. Unless effective treatment be adopted, the patient will prolialily sink rapidly, and die from exhaustion and general blood-poisoning. Treatment in these cases must be carried out promptly. The limb should be kept absolutely at rest. As soon as fluid is detected, it should be removed by an asjiirator, and, if found to be purulent, free incisions should be made, the joint-cavity well washed out, and a drainage tube inserted. Subsequently boracic fomenta- tions should be applied and irrigation with weak antiseptic lotion should be practised at intervals of not more than four hours. This treatment will sometimes prove eftective in arresting the disease, but if, in spite of it, the local and constitutional symptoms increase in severity, no time should be lost in resorting to amjjutation. In most cases it will be sufficient to remove the foot by Syme's method, but occasionally amputa- tion through the lower part of the leg will be advisable. Affections in the Course of the Acute Specific Fevers.—During the course of Scarlet Fever the following joint-att'ections may arise : (1) Scarlatinal Synovitis. This occurs most often at the end of the first, or the beginning of the second week of the fever. Most frequently the wrists are the seat of the trouble, but the ankles are occasionally involved. Complete recovery usually takes place. The affection has been supposed to be of the nature of acute rheumatism, but more probably it is due directly to the scarlatinal poison, or to the action of septic material absorbed from the throat. (2) Acute Suppurative Arthritis, of pyicmic origin, may also occur. It is rarer than the scarlatinal synovitis, and the ankle-joint is only occasional)}' involved. (3) True rheumatic arthritis is a still rarer complication. Somewhat similar affections may occur in Enteric Fever, and the other acute fevers. Tuberculous Arthritis.—Tuberculous disease is of frequent occurrence in the ankle-joint, and is a grave affection because of its liability to extend to the surrounding .structures. Most frequently the synovial mcml)rane is the seat of origin of the disease, but in some cases the joint- affection is secondary to tulwrculous disease of one of the malleoli, of the astragalus, or even of other bones of the tarsus. The astragalus is the bone which is probably most often attacked primarily. Occasionally the primary deposit of tubercle takes place in the neighbouring tendon-sheaths, and the joint is invaded by extension. ^Vhatever maybe its seat of origin, the tuber- culous process, when once the joint is involved, is very apt to extend rapidly to all the structures of the articulation. The synovial membrane becomes greatly thickened, the cartilages are gradually destroyed, and the ends of the bones, which are thus exposed, fall into a state of caries. Unless the disease be arrested by proper treatment, supiDuration will proba])ly