311 ASTHMA many hours, which, not infrequently, first appears during the night. Bronchitis usually accompanies the catarrhal attack, though this is not always described; at times the first dyspnoeic paroxysm occurs after a prolonged attack of bronchitis, or it may show itself during a broncho-pneumonia. The dyspnoeic attacks recur at intervals, though the catarrhal or bronchitic conditions may seem to subside, and the patient is now said to suffer from asthma. Sometimes asthma develops from chest troubles left by measles, whooping-cough, and other ailments, and very commonly it springs from the catarrhal condition connected with hay fever. More rarely it originates in quite a different manner; a patient is suddenly seized with an asthmatic paroxysm for which there is no certain cause to be found, though it may be attributed to emotional excitement, in- digestible food, and other antecedents. Asthma, again, has been known to arise suddenly during pregnancy. The course of asthma is very variable ; at times the attacks, when once established, con- tinue to occur at shorter or longer intervals throughout life, which nevertheless may be pro- longed to the usual term, but if the attacks be frequent and severe, chest trouble often develops, which may shorten life. Sometimes after a few attacks the dyspnoea does not recur for long periods, or it may never recur. Sometimes the paroxysms lessen in intensity, alter in character, or quite disappear, even when they have been severe for years. Death during a paroxysm is extremely rare. Symptoms.—The dyspnoeic attacks in asthma may develop without any premonitory symp- toms, but patients are at times made aware of their approach in various ways, sometimes by a feeling of excitement or of depression, some- times by undue drowsiness, more rarely by wakefulness. Whether there are premonitory symptoms or not, the attacks most frequently develop in the night or early in the morning. A patient is often wakened by the advent of dyspnoea and finds himself " wheezing " ; at times the dyspnoea only appears after waking. It may become pronounced within a quarter of an hour; more often it develops slowly. The patient may even have troubled sleep for an hour or two after the first symptom is felt, and many -hours may elapse before the height of the paroxysm is reached. During the initial stage profuse diui-esis sometimes occurs, and neuralgic pains may be felt in various parts ; itching about the sternum, chin, and inter-scapular regions has been noticed. When the dyspnoea is fully developed, sleep is impossible ; the patient either sits up in bed with head bent forward and the shoulders raised, or more often finds it necessary to rise and sit or stand in such a position that he may give tlie extraordinary nuiscles of respiration the best chance of acting. To fix his shoulders, neck, and back, he often plants his elbows or his hands on some piece of furniture and leans forward, raising up his shoulders with the head thrown back, mouth open, and nostrils dilated. With anxious countenance and pale, some- times slightly cyanosed face, he devotes himself entirely to his respiratory efforts, and often the face is bedewed with cold perspiration. The pulse is frequent and small, the temperature is usually normal. On examining the chest the first thing that strikes the observer is the vigorous action of all the extraordinary muscles of respiration, which are employed in raising the ribs and dilating the thorax, the fixed head, neck, and shoulders serving as points from which they act. The chest is nearly always found in a condi- tion of extreme inspiration, the diaphragm being depressed and the abdomen rendered full. A few observers have noticed the chest drawn in, wholly or in part. The accessory muscles of respiration are seen in full action, yet they move the chest-walls very slightly. So little air enters the lung that it cannot follow this slight movement, hence the intercostal spaces are depressed as well as the supra-sternal region and scrobiculus cordis. The respirations are commonly slowed, but sometimes quickened, the expiration being almost always markedly prolonged, the inspira- tion following immediately on the cessation of the expiration. Rarely inspiratory dyspnoea with a raised diaphragm has been observed. On percussion, the chest yields a hyper- resonant note, cardiac dulness is decreased, and the lung extends lower than in the normal state. Some observei's, among them C. J. B. Williams and AValshe, have seen cases in which the resonance has been impaired. On auscultation the respiratory murmur is lessened generally, and often annulled in some areas, rhonchi, chiefly sibilant, being heard all over or in many parts of the chest. The stethoscopic sounds not infrequently change much in the same areas during a paroxysm. The expired air contains much carbonic acid and no oxygen. After an hour or two, the severity of the paroxysm may pass off; rarely it ceases suddenly within that time ; not infre- quently the dyspnoea lingers on in a modified form until the middle of the day on which it has commenced, or it may last until the next day with exacerbations and remissions. During the subsidence of the paroxysm moist sounds may be heard over the lungs, and pellet- like opalescent masses of mucus are usually expectorated. But when the attacks are associ- ated with catarrh, the expectoration raised may be in the form of large tenacious, sometimes frothy masses, or liquid and flocculent. Blood is at times seen, and in long standing