ANEURYSM 174 should be placed as comfortably as possible; the part where pressure is to be made should be shaved and powdered. Two spots, one liigher, one lower, for the thumbs should be indelibly marked. The thumbs should be placed on the artery, sparing the vein as much as possible, one on top of the other, so that the actual pressure may be made with either. A conical tense shotbag of four pounds may be allowed to rest on the thumb. The pressure required is just enough to stop pulsation. At each change of relays — every hour—pulsation should be cautiously felt for. Arteries suitable for digital compression are the femoral at the groin, common carotid, subclavian, and brachial, where these vessels lie on bone and are fairly superficial. Instrumental compression is not so well borne as digital, but requires fewer assistants. It is used only in aneurysms of the lower limb. Carte's instruments for the ext. iliac and femoral are usually employed. They are used alternately, just like the thumbs of assistants. Lister's tourniquet has been used in aortic and iliac aneurysms. If the patient is restless and irritable he is kept under morphia; in some cases chloroform is given lightly. Compression may be continuous for 12-24 hours or longer; or discontimious, being carried on for several hours daily over weeks, or even months. It is best, when possible, to make an attempt to cure a case straight off' by continuous complete control of the main trunk, remembering that the longer success is postponed the less likely is it to come at all. The mode of cure is the usual one. When it occurs gradually the fibrin is laminated; in this case the sac slowly hardens, pulsates less forcibly and with less expansion. Often the cure is quite sudden, even in the longer cases. Again, a sac may harden and soften once or twice before cure is effected. It is necessary to protect the clot in the artery from the full force of the heart for two or three days Vjy the light action of a compressor. Relapse may occur long after apparent cure, the artery, presumably, not being obliterated. Advantages claimed for compression were that it avoided " an operation " ; that the dangers incidental to a wound in which a great artery was tied were not run ; that gangrene was less likely than after ligature, because the artery was blocked only opposite the aneurysm; that compression was likely to throw less strain than ligature on the great central arteries; that ligature could be practised with less likelihood of gangrene after failure of com- pression, because the collateral circulation would be developed more or less. The last two points are at least doubtful. The objec- tions are — that it is always painful and wearisome, and may be too painful for some temperaments to bear: morphia, or light antEsthesia, can, however, usually be employed ; that several skilled assistants are required for digital compression, which is certainly best; and that long compression may render subse- quent ligature more difficult (from matting, if it has to be done at the point of pressure, which generally can be avoided) and less suc- cessful, owing to development of the collateral circulation. The palmy days of compression were those of septic surgery. The reports of three London hospitals do not show that compression has been employed at all in their wards since 1891. The dangers of sepsis have been all but abolished in ligature wounds. Ligature is more certain to succeed, and, if not used when excision should be done, accidents are not more likely than after compression. The wounds are usually painless. Under these circumstances ligature has come more and more to the front as the method of dealing with aneurysm cito, tuto et jucunde. The places where the ligature is still in difficulties, e.g. first part of subclavian and innominate, are just those where compression can afford no help. The success of compression amounted to quite 50 per cent in popliteal aneurysms; less in other varieties. Accidents were not infrequent; but com- pression was used in cases of bad heart disease, general arterio-sclerosis, and in other conditions in which operation was undesirable. The accidents were: sloughing and soreness at the point of compression, gangrene after solidi- fication of the sac and suppuration of the sac ; both aneurysm and arterio-venous fistula have been recorded at the point of pressure. In cases where it is really desirable to avoid a wound, compression may render good service. Like ligature, it should be most effectual near the sac, yet not so near as to injure it. Un- fortunately the points at which compression is possible are few and fixed. Flexion of the knee and elbow, especially over a pad, stops the pulse in the distal arteries. It is sometimes used as a means of compression, being kept up for hours or days. Its success has not been marked, and it has often been abandoned on account of pain. Distal compression may be usefully combined with the proximal when the collateral circulation is free. It is sometimes used alone under the circumstances in which distal ligature is em- ployed, but is a poor remedy. Compression by Usmahch's Bandage, suggested by Reid as a means of inducing in aneurysms that absolute stagnation which so greatly favours coagulation. A rubber bandage is wound firmly round the horizontal limb up to the aneurysm, lightly over the sac, and again sufficiently firmly above it to entirely control the blood-supply and to keep the sac comfortably full of blood; when the aneurysm is high in the limb there may not