ANTHRAX 211 time (Fournier, 1769), it was only in 1S79 that Bell demonstrated the exact nature of puhuoiiaiy anthrax, and gave his well-known account of tlie disease which, according to hiin, runs the follow- ing course in cases of unmixed infection. During the siiort inculiation period nothing more than bronchial irritation, <luc to the inhala- tion of dust, is noticeai)le. Tlie first symptoms indicating the l)eginning of general infection are often indefinite, the disease assuming rapidly tlie characters of general anthrax with practically no local manifestation. In other cases which are usually more prolonged, a more or less dis- tinct local reaction is indicated by pain in the chest, dyspnoea, cough, signs of pneumonia, pleurisy, and a higher temperature (105° to even 107°) than is usually observed in uncom- plicated cases of rapidly fatal anthractemia. In 63 cases observed by Bell, the duration of life was as follows :— No. of days . 1 2 .> 4 5 10 over 10 No. of cases . 3 13 1N 17 7 2 Bell is of the opinion that pulmonary anthrax is i)y no means always followed by generalisation of the disease, and that, as in the case of malignant pustule, I'ecovery is not infrequent. It is obvious that spores may be swallowed at tlie same time as they are inhaled, and that pulmonary and intestinal anthrax may arise coiunirrently. Murhtd Aiiatorii!/.—The first scientific account of the lesions occurring in pulmonary anthrax is due to Greenfield. Beyond tlie changes observed ill general anthrax, the following lesions may lie considered as characteristic of pulmonary aiitiirax, specially when, they are not associated iritk extensive ahdoiiiinal lesions. (Jelatinous (frequently htemorrhagic) a'dema of the mediastinal, sub-pleural, and interlobular pulmonary connective tissue; considerable pleural and pericardial, generally straw-coloured, exuda- tion. Enlargement of the bronchial glands which are friable, deeply congested, often the seat of ha'iuorrliages, and tlierefore of very dark colour ; venous liypencmia and oedema of the lungs, pulmonary lueniorrliages more or less limited. I^unieii of the trachea and main bronchi reduced by tiie eedematous swelling of tiie mucous and sub-mucous coats, whicii are also the seat of numerous Inemorrhages. Greenfield found that these lesions were most marked in the lower part of the trachea and in the main bronchi. Numerous bacilli are present in the diseased mucous membrane, from which they spread tiirough tiie lymphatic spaces and vessels to surrounding parts. IxTESTiXAL Anthrax (Mycosis intestinalis). Clinical Features.—This form of anthrax has rarely been observed to follow the ingestion of tlie imperfectly cooked flesh of animals which had died from aiitlirax. Aliments may also be contaminated witli spores present in dust. Those who by their occupation are liable to pulmonary anthrax and malignant pustule are, generally speaking, also liable to intestinal anthrax. G. Munch in 1871, and E. Wagner in 1874, appear to have been the first to recognise the exact nature of this form of anthrax, which had been previously described by Waldeyer under the name of Mycosis in- testinalis. Tiie most important symptoms are the follow- ing :—Sudden onset, prostration, pains in the back, colics, vomiting, meteorism, diarrha'a, sometimes ha;morrhagic ; pulmonary symptoms similar to those observed in pulmonary anthrax may also supervene. The patient passes into a state of collapse resembling that associated with cholera. Death usually occurs from two to five days after the onset of the symptoms. Gimler lias recorded two interesting cases of intestinal anthrax caused respectively by the consumption of uncooked meat, and badly cooked liver of one cow and one ox which had been slauglitered on account of anthrax. In one case death fol- lowed within three days ; in the other within five days. It would appear that some 130 persons had partaken of the flesh of these two animals, and that the two cases mentioned above were the only ones in which a fatal result followed. The ingestion of flesh infected with anthrax bacilli is frequently without bad effects, but may be followed by gastro-intestinal dis- orders from which the patient recovers. On this ground it is supposed that recovery may take place after a slight local infection. Morhid Anatomy.—Even before their exact nature was recognised, good descriptions of the lesions connected with intestinal anthrax had been given by Wahl, Buhl, and Waldeyer. The most characteristic lesions are the following :— Abundant, serous-looking peritoneal exudation : a'dema of visceral peritoneum, of mesentery and retroperitoneal tissue ; ecciiymoses in the same situation ; enlargement, congestion and hemor- rhagic infiltration of mesenteric ganglia ; numer- ous ])ustular-looking swellings of the mucosa of the stomach and upper part of the small intes- tines ; similar lesions, but less numerous, in the lower parts of the small intestine and in the large intestine. Some of these swellings are liaMiiorrhagic, and some resemble infarcts. These lesions are intensely congested or hemorrhagic ; their central parts may be gan- grenous and ulcerated. Anthrax bacilli are usually found in great abundance in the affected parts. Owing to the frequency of intestinal changes in other forms of anthrax, it is only when the history and the relative importance of lesions indicate clearly intestinal infection that the diagnosis of intestinal anthrax can be established satis- factorily.