391 BLADDER, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF Pathology.—The bladck'r may become infected with tubercle, either directly througli the urine or indirectly through the blood-vessels and lymphatics. Direct infection through the urine may occur in cases of renal tuberculosis, the bladder-wall becoming inoculated from contact with tubei-cle bacilli present in the urine. This method of invasion does not occur so long as the bladder-wall is healthy and intact, but if the mucous membrane becomes irritated or injured in any way, e.g. by a calculus, or by the introduction of a catheter, sound, etc., then the affected part is very liable to become inoculated from the urine. More frequently, infection takes place indirectly from the kidneys or testes througli the medium of the lymphatics. The lymphatics of both these organs communicate with those of the base and neck of the l)ladder, and this is the situation where tuberculous deposits are usually first found. The bladder- wall may also become invaded by direct exten- sion from the seminal vesicles (which ai-e so often affected in cases of genito-urinary tuber- culosis, especially when the disease originates in the testes), less frequently by extension from the prostate. In the early stage, deposits of tubercle are found in the submucous tissue, chiefly about the trigone and siu'rounding the orifices of the ureters; after a time these soften and break down, giving rise to the presence of niimerous small ulcers, which may subsequently coalesce to form one or more ulcerated surfaces of larger size. The ulceration, which at first is quite superficial, may eventually involve the entire thickness of the bladder-wall, fistulous com- munications forming between the viscus and the rectum or vagina. If commencing in the bladder, the disease usually extends to other parts of the genito-urinary tract; when involv- ing the bladder secondarily, owing to extension from the genital organs, the infection frequently spreads upwards along the ureter to the kidneys. Symjytoms.—In the early stage the character- istic symptoms arc increased frequency in micturition, accompanied by pain and often by the presence of minute quantities of blood in the urine, especially at the termination of the act. Sooner or later cystitis ensues, and all the symptoms characteristic of this condition are then superadded, the urine containing pus, as | well as the tubercle bacilli. When ulceration j has taken place, pain and irritability of the | bladder become more prominent symptoms, and there may also be an increase in the amount of blood present in the urine. The p7'ognosis of this affection when com- mencing in the bladder is always unfavourable, for though it often runs a somewhat chronic course, with periods of temporary improvement, the tendency is for the disease to progress locally, and also spread to other parts, the subjects of it frequently developing evidences of renal or pulmonary tulierculosis, which prove fatal; or death may be due to exhaustion, the patient being worn out by the severity of the bladder-symptoms. Diagnosis.—The existence of this condition in the early stage should be suspected in young- adults complaining of irritability of the bladder with traces of blood in the urine, for which no evident cause can be found, such as stone, stricture of the urethra, etc. The diagnosis will be confirmed if there is a tuberculous family history, or evidences of tubercle in the lungs oi- ill some other part of the genito-urinary tract; also if the tubercle bacillus can be detected in the urine. A cystoscopic examination will usually reveal its presence, for in the early stage deposits of tubercle can often be recognised as pale or yellowish nodules, forming minute projections beneath the mucous membrane, the surrounding surface being more or less con- gested. If the disease has been in progress for some time, one or more small ulcers will be visible, often shallow and irregular in shape, their margins being sometimes sinuous and I'ounded, sometimes well defined as though IDunched out. The examination should always be conducted very gently, for in tuberculous disease the bladder does not tolerate any form of instrumentation, consequently a rough use of the cystoscope is very liable to aggravate the cystitis Mid afterwards render its progress more active. The conditions lialile to be mistaken are calculus and vesical growths. The absence of a calculus can be proved by sounding the bladder. In tuberculous disease there is no sudden stoppage in the stream of urine as is (jften observed in cases of stone, and the liladder- symptoms, instead of being relieved by rest in the recumbent position, are often worse at night, the reverse of what usually happens when they are due to the presence of a calculus. In vesical growths, which often occur at a some- what later period of life, hannaturia is a more prominent symptom, and is frequently present for a considerable period befoi'e evidences of irritability of the bladder appear. It is often a difficult matter to distinguish between tuberculosis of the bladder and kidney, especially in the early stages, and it must also be remembered that the two conditions fre- quently coexist. The presence of pain, tender- ness on pressure, and jjerhaps slight fulness in the lumbar region, would point to the implica- tion of the kidney; and a cystoscopic examination of the orifices of the ureters, or their catheterisa- tion in a female, might help to determine the renal origin of the pyuria, which would probaljly be present under these circumstances. Treatment.—In the early stage, this should be mainly constitutional, consisting of tonics, cod-liver oil, and a liberal diet; benefit will be derived from a sea-N'oyage, or residence at the