BONE, DISEASES OF 434 partial or complete destruction of the ossifying tissues. The loss in length corresponds to the extent of the destruction and to the functional value of the epiphysial junction concerned. The shortening may not only affect the bone originally the seat of the osteomyelitis, but may affect the other bones of the limb, so that the whole limb may be notably shortened. Lengthening of bone, from exaggerated growth at the epiphysial junction, may occur when the latter escapes the direct injurious effects of osteo- myelitis, i.e. where the disease has involved the shaft of a long bone. The increase in length may be accompanied by increase in girth and density (hyperostosis and sclerosis). It is much rarer to have exaggerated growth in the length of a bone adjacent to the one affected, e.g. the femur in disease of the tibia. In segments of limbs where there are two parallel bones, the arrest of growth or the exaggerated growth of either results in curvature of the bone which is too long, and in alteration of its articular surfaces. Twisting or curvature of a single bone, e.g. femur or humerus, from bending of the new periosteal bone after removal of the dead dia- physis, is associated with very evident deformity, consisting in shortening and alteration of the axis of the limb. There may result an obliquity of the bone from unequal destruction of the epiphysial cartilage, where one half is destroyed, and the other half goes on growing, e.g. genu valgum, cubitus valgus, club hand. A spontaneous fracture of the femur, tibia, or humerus may have been allowed to unite with deformity. Deformity may result from permanent dis- placement of an epiphysis. Such deformities are more often observed in relation to the lower end of the femur, or the upper end of the tibia. They resemble incomplete dislocations. Joints may become contracted or ankylosed. The latter may be fibrous or osseous, and in good or in bad position. Joints may also be partially or completely dislocated. Combinations of the above deformities in a limb render it unsightly and useless. Extra- ordinary examples may be met with in neglected cases. The Diagnosis of Acute Staphylococcus Osteomyelitis and Periostitis is to be made— 1. From Erysipelas, Cellulitis, and other inflam- mations of the overlying soft parts, chiefly con- fusing in superficial bones, such as the tibia, clavicle, or ulna. The features of inflammation and of suppuration appear early, are superficial and more evident lesions from the first than those proceeding from disease of the subjacent bone. Careful search should be made for tender- ness in the position of the ossifying junction. Erythema nodosum has been mistaken for osteo- myelitis of the tibia. 2. From sub-periosteal ha3morrhage in the shaft of a long bone, in hsemophilia, and in scurvy-rickets. 3. From the Eruptive Fevers.—One is most likely to confuse the more severe forms of osteo- myelitis when there is early and pronounced general intoxication with certain of the malignant fevers. In all doubtful feverish conditions in children and in young adults, the ossifying junctions of the long bones should be sys- tematically searched for areas of pain and tenderness. 4. From Acute Articular Rheumatism (rheu- matic fever).—Kocher appears to regard the osteomyelitis of young individuals as the same disease as acute articular rheumatism. Professor Sahli of Bern found the same staphylococcus in a large proportion of cases of acute articular rheumatism, so that the infective nature of articular rheumatism may be regarded as all but proved. If it infects joints, why do the marrow and periosteum escape? Still it never suppurates. Several authors have observed cases of osteomyelitis wliich yielded remarkably to salicylate of soda. There is a suggestion that those which suppurate are called osteomyelitis, and those which do not are regarded as due to acute rheumatism. The following are points of distinction :—The lesions are usually multiple in acute rheumatism and solitary in osteomyelitis. The pains and temperature yield to salicylate of soda in acute rheumatism, more than in osteomyelitis. There is marked pain and tenderness over the joint in acute rheumatism, and over the bone in osteomyelitis. Swelling is articular in acute rheumatism and extra-articular in osteomyelitis. The Prognosis in acute suppurative osteo- myelitis and periostitis varies with the type of the disease, with the initial severity and prominence of the symptoms of intoxication, with the seat of disease — the vertebrae, skull, pelvis, and lower jaw being specially unfavour- able—with the multiplicity of the lesions, and the development of internal metastases. One must be on the outlook for the latter, especially endo- carditis. The prognosis is favourably influenced by early, accurate, and antiseptic treatment. Treatment of Acute Suppurative Osteo- myelitis AND Periostitis.—This is to be carried out on the same lines as in other suppurative diseases. The strength of the patient is to be kept up with abundant and easily absorbed nourishment. Kocher advocates the liberal exhibition of fluids by the stomach, rectum, or subcutaneous infusion, so as to keep up the blood-pressure, wash out the toxines, and help the functions of the kidneys and skin. He has also found benefit from full doses of salicylate of soda. Locally, the limb is to be wrapped in a wet antiseptic dressing, and immobilised in some form of splint [see " Bier's Method "].