BLOOD, PHYSIOLOGY AND CLINICAL INVESTIGATION OF 413 romid and of regidar contour. These istain more or less honiogeneonsly with acid anilin dyes, such as eosin. The nucleus of this cell is similar to that of the neutrophilous, but as a rule takes on the basic stain less deeply. The cell is amoeboid, only wandering out in all probability wlien attracted by a specific stimulus. 6. Basiophilous Leucocytes — Mast cells — are only found in exceedingly small numbers in the normal blood. The nuclei are very poor in chromatin, and their granules, which vary in size, stain of a violet tint with methylene blue. They are increased in the ])lood in leucocy- thasmia. The following table gives what may lie re- garded as approximately the average percentage of these different forms of white blood-corpuscles found in the normal blood. 1. Lymphocytes (small and large), 20-2.5 per cent. 2. Large mononucleated leucocytes and transi- tion forms, 2'.5 per cent. 3. Polymorphic (polynuclear) neutrophilous or finely cosinophilous, 70 per cent. 4. True eosinophilous polymorphic (coarsely granular), 3 per cent. 5. Mast cells, barely 0'5 per cent. It is, however, by no means rare to have alterations in the relative number of these cells under normal conditions in different individuals. I have noticed that this very often occurs in the case of the eosino2Jhilous. There are certain other forms which only occur patholofiicalty in the blood, and I'oquire to be merely briefly referred to here, as their nature and significance are discussed in other articles. 1. Neutroj)hilous Myelocytes. — These are mononucleated cells with a relatively large, faintly stainable nucleus and a granular proto- plasm fairly regularly arranged around it. The granules are neutrophilous or faintly eosino- philous. These cells are on an average dis- tinctly larger than the polymorphic neutro- philous, often about 16 [i in diameter, but forms even slightly smaller than the erythrocyte are also to be met with. Most authorities hold that these cells are not auiffiboid. They are of great pathological importance, occurring especi- ally in the blood in medullary leucocythfemia, but they are also present in other conditions, for example, in certain diseases of children, in diphtheria, and about the time of the crisis in pneumonia. 2. Eosinojjhilous Myelocytes.—These are large mononucleated cells similar to the neutro- philous, except that the granules present in them are coarser and have a. more marked affinity for eosin. There are other cells which have been de- scribed as occurring in the blood in different pathological conditions, the nature of which, however, is still so doubtful that it is better not to describe them in this short article. Very many varieties of myelocytes in different trans- ition changes are to be seen in the blood in medullary leucocythaimia. Blood Plates.—These exceedingly interesting structures seem undoubtedly to be performed in the circulating blood, although this is not believed by some investigators (Lciwit). Their form is easily altered by the action of different agents ; normally, however, they are more or less rounded and about 3 in diameter. As a rule they do not contain haimoglobin, al- though some undoubtedly do. Chemically they are found to be rich in phosphorus, so that, bearing in mind their staining affinities, there is strong proof that they are nuclear or nucleoid in type. Bizzozero is of the opinion that they are independent bodies and have no relation- ship to either the white or red cells. A very widespread view is that they are derived from a fragmentation of the nucleus of the leucocyte, although there is no very good proof of this. Hayem and his pupils believe that they are the forerunners of the red corpuscles and so term them heematoblasts, a view that is practi- cally entirely abandoned at the present day. Recent work is tending to show that they may be derived from the residue of nuclear matter left in the adult erythrocyte. There seems to be an intimate connection between the number of blood plates and the rapidity of blood- clotting, because in conditions where they are decidedly increased in number, e.g. chlorosis and in the anaemia after prolonged haemorrhage, the rate at which coagulation occurs is also increased, while in purpura, where clotting is very slow, their number is small. Arnold has recently described the separation of these bodies from the erythrocytes in the vessels of the mesentery of young mice during life. As far as covild be made out, the leucocytes were not implicated in the process. It is difficult to study in blood films the relationship between red cells and blood plates, owing to the ten- dency of the latter to adhere to the former. Granular Bodies. — Small round, highly refractile granules are frequently to be seen in normal and pathological blood. They un- doubtedly include substances of diff'erent type and origin, —• granular bodies derived from leucocytes, from degenerating red cells and blood plates, and also from precipitates in the blood plasma. They have been termed by Miiller, " Hfemokonien " or " Blutstiiubehen " (blood dust particles). Chemical Composition. — 1. Red Cells.— The main constituents are htcmoglobin, a globulin which coagulates at 75° C, lecithin, cholesterin, and salts of potassium, sodium, iron, calcium and magnesium. The most important