BLOOD, PHYSIOLOGY AND CLINICAL INVESTIGATION OF 417 all of them are more or less fallacious. The more inqwrtaut methods only will be described. Quincke ft Metliod.—The red corpuscles in a certain volume of blood are numbered. Then shortly after ti'ansfusion of a known quantity of blood in which the number of red cells has been estimated, the corpuscles are again mun- bered. After imiform distribution of the red corpuscles, their increase per unit volume would allow one to calculate the total amoimt of bbjod present. The method is, in the first pbice, troublesome to carry out, and it requires the injection of large quantities of blood in order to ])roduce any appreciable effect. Of course there are also the two great fallacies, alterations in the transudation of plasma and breaking down of the red corpuscles. A Similar Methotl was introduced i>y Vierordt. — A measured quantity of l)lood is withdrawn and the red cells in it estimated, then (time being allowed to elapse for the I'etui'n of the blood to its original volume by absorption of l}'mph without any new formation of red cells) another portion is withdrawn and the number of red cells in it enumerated. The total volume of blood is then easily estimated, thus— If a = niuiiber of red cells in the first portion ol' blood withdrawn ; If ;8 = numlier in second portion ; And y = volume of blood withdrawn in first portion ; llien total (|uantity = ^—^• The method recommended by Ehrlicli has much in its favour. He advises the estimation of the degree of dilution that a known quantity of antito.xin of fixed strength undergoes after injection into the blood-stream, the blood being examined again, after some time has elapsed, as to its antitoxic power. No method is suitable, however, for clinical work, all being very troublesome and more or less fallacious. II. Estimation of the Volujie of Corpuscles AND Plasma.—The method which has been largely used for this purpose is so fallacious tiiat the pains spent in carrying it out are practically thrown away. The method referred to is the estimation of the volume of the corpuscles after centrifugidising a known volume of diluted blood. The apparatus most commonly used is one or other modification of Hedin's 1 Hematocrit. [t is practically impossible to get a suitable diluting fluid that docs not injure the corpuscles, so that, bearing in mind the extremely small quantity of undiluted blood nsed and the fact that the corpuscles are compressible, it can easily be understood that the method leaves nuich to be desired in the matter of accuracy. I*'ull descriptions of the instrument and the method of its employment ai'e given in von Limbeck's and Cabot's works. VOL. I III. Estimation of Si'eciflo Guavity.—Here also the methods are so troublesome, and the results obtained of so doubtful clinical iui- poi'tance, that they are at present l>ut seldom carried out. The most exact methods are those based upon determining the weight of a given volinne of blood by means of the capilhiry pyknometer (Schmaltz's method). A thin-walled capillary glass tube, about 12 cm. long, after being washed out with water, ;dcohol, and ether, is dried and weighed. It is then filled with distilled water and again weighed. The water is then blown out, the tube washed with alcohol and ether, and the blood sucked up until it is full, when the weight is again taken. Corrections for temjjerature may lie made, though they are inmecessary. By subtracting the weight of the tube from that of tube plus water in the one case, and from tube plus blood in the other, one olitains the specific weight of the latter when water is taken as unity. The tendency for the blood to coagulate in the small tube occasionally causes inconvenience, but can lie prevented if care be taken to warm the tube to body temperature and have it as clean as possible. The methods of Roy, Hammerschlag, Hay- craft, and others consist in taking two fluids of different densities and noting the speciiic gravit\ of a mixture of these two at the point when a drop of blood, on being added, neither sinks nor rises. Different fluids have Ijeen used for this purpose, e.g. glycerine and water, chloroform and benzol, etc. These latter methods are apt to give too liigli residts and are troublesome to carry out properly, the exact point at which the specific gravities of the mixture and blood are equal being also very difficult to determine. Tiie volatility of the fluids is also a disturliiiig factor. Minute details as to the method can In- obtained in V. Limlieck's book. IV. Alkalinity. — Very numerous methods have been devised to estimate more or less rapidly the alkalinity of the blood. The more exact methods are complex and take nuicli longer time to carry out properly than the clinician has to spare. The best method to adopt is to estimate the alkalinity of the plasma alone, and at the same time find out how the alkali is distributed in the corpuscles. The first method, which I shall shortly refer to, is that of Haycraft and Williamson, which depends upon the estimation of the alka- linity of the plasma liy testing it against a graduated series of glazed red litmus-papers. These papers are soaked in different dilutions of normal H.,SOj, Tisually about a dozen being required to get exact results. If on taking out a drop of blood and touching one of these graduated papers one get a distinct blue, while on touching one that has been soaked in a 27