ANESTHETICS—CHLOROFORM 146 half an hour beforehand, will be of benefit in sustaining the circulation. In emei'gency cases, childbed and the like, these preparations are impracticable, or may, if pi'acticable, be injurious, particularly in cases of shock and hajmorrhage. Then chloroform should be given without any such preliminary preparation. In cases of intestinal obstruction, strangulated hernia, and similar conditions, where the stomach is distended with stercoraceous or other liquid, and perhaps the abdomen also by tympanitis, it is well to empty the stomach by a stomach- tube, for suffocation by the vomited liquid is likely to occur during anajsthesia under such conditions. The position of the patient should, if possible, be recumbent—on the back with a low pillow under the head; but this may be departed from if there be any sufficient reason, as in minor operations on the throat where roof-light is not obtainable. The clothing of the patient should be, before the anaesthesia is commenced, so arranged that artificial respiration may, if required, be com- menced without any delay. It is best to be of woollen materials. No bandages around the waist, chest, or neck should remain. A loose shirt, or perhaps under-vest of flannel, open and loose at neck and wrists, and which can be in an instant torn down the front, is the most suitable clothing for the upper part of the body. Where the lower limbs are not the seat of operation they should be encased in warm flannel drawers and warm stockings, and enveloped besides in a blanket enclosing one or two covered hot-water bottles, whenever the operation may be a prolonged one involving much loss of heat. A warm room, 70° F., or even a table warmed by hot water, is, where it can be arranged, likely to diminish the danger to life in such exhausting operations. Dental plates or artificial teeth should in every case be removed, as, even if firm, they may become detached and swallowed, or inhaled. First Stage of Anaesthesia.—-There are innumerable methods of giving chloroform— it would be impossible here to describe them— and there is no particularly transcendent merit about any. The method which experience has led the writer to consider best will therefore alone be described here, but it is not contended to convey by this that it is the only good plan, or even the best. To avoid drops of the drug irritating or burning the skin of the face, some vaseline or olive oil should be rubbed over the chin, lips, and nose in adults, but not in the case of timid little children. A towel is then spread over the face and chest. It should be a reasonably thick towel, entirely unfolded, and outspread lengthwise. A thin towel will let the chloroform spark or drop through its texture on to the face. The il chloroform should not be dropped from a greater ii height than an inch and a half, for the same ,i reason. The writer thinks it is best to cover the entire face with the towel, as this prevents the patient seeing those about him if he looks ^ up when half vmconscious, and he is less apt to ii talk, make personal remarks, scream, spit, etc., than he is if the eyes be uncovered. The fingers of the left hand are spread out beneath the towel over the mouth and nostrils, keeping the towel in good convex shape, and preventing the chloroform on the towel touching the face; while the breath can be felt on the fingers, and the facial, temporal, or carotid pulse by the thumb or little finger. By thus covering the face, a view of the expression and changes of colour, which may be helpful to a timid or inexperienced cliloroformist, is excluded; but to the skilled administrator these are not things of much importance. As the towel lies on the chest and abdomen, it serves the purpose of indicating the play of the respiration in the most sensitive manner, the light and shade on its folds forming the most delicate spirograph conceivable. The bottle is adjusted by stopper or finger so as to yield about two drops per second, the rate being altered as required by tilting the bottle more or less. Dropping bottles are usefid and are often used, but may not be always avail- able, and it is preferable, at least for most students and practitioners, to use only things that are always at command. Commencement of Administration.—A single drop is now let fall on the towel an inch below the point of the nose, a second drop follows in three or four seconds more, a third three or four seconds later, and so on, until the patient is accustomed to the drug, and can bear it without a sensation of choking. The patch on the towel wetted by the chloroform will remain about the same size, and so the quantity of vapour given off" will be nearly constant, and the danger of heart-failure from altered con- jj centration lessened. When the patient has become used to it, a j! drop every two seconds may be given, the wet a patch on the towel becoming larger, and the | dose of the vapour increased. Such a dose will p usually anaesthetise in a few minutes, especially | if the patient breathe through the mouth, as so ? many do. ;< But if the patient, as is frequent, persistently | breathes through the nose, chloroform must be given much more freely. A nose-breather j| requires, and can safely bear, three times as j strong a vapour as a mouth-breather. When- ever, therefore, the patient does not, within j two or three minutes, begin to show that he f is becoming unconscious, by little purposeless E voluntary movements of hands, head, or legs, or by some unconnected or semi-unconscious