ACROMEGALY 48 patient's attention. The symptoms develop slowly, and sometimes the condition remains stationary for a time, and then follows a fresh recrudescence; eventually the patient becomes weak, is obliged to take to his bed, and death takes place from exhaustion or dilatation of the heart. In other cases death may occur suddenly either from diabetic conla or from the symptoms of cerebral tumour; the duration of the disease is in most cases ten to twenty years, or even more. In some few cases the course has been a shorter one (malignant form of Sternberg), yet it lasts several years; such cases are described by Caton, Hansemann, Uthoff, Rolleston. The enlargement of the extremities takes place more quickly, and death takes place more or less suddenly; in all the acute cases a sarcomatous tumour of the hypophysis has been found. Pathological Anatomy—Epidermis.—This is a true hypertrophj', the cells of the rete Malpighi contain pigment, the cutis is increased, the sheath of the nerves and tlie walls of blood-vessels are thickened, the fibrous tissue is firm and sclerotic. The muscles for a long time remain unaltered ; towards the last they show marked atrophy of the muscular elements and increase of the fibrous tissue. The cartilages are thickened, showing pro- liferation of the cells and deposits of fibrous tissue; the cartilage covering the end of bone entering a joint is either thickened or thinned, and may be the seat of osteophytic deposits. The changes in the bones have been carefully studied by several observers (Arnold, Schultze, Sternberg, Hunter), and have not always been found to be of the same nature; hypertrophy, osteophytic growths, and absorption of bone are noticed. The periosteum is often found thickened, and leads to the apposition of new layers of bone, as in the bones of the skull, and from it also proceed osteophytic deposits, and ossification of the insertion of muscles and fasciae. The medulla of the bone is also the starting- point of further changes, and may lead to new formation of bone or to an absorption of bone. Hunter found great vascularity of the medulla of bone and haemorrhages. The skull is enlarged in its circumference and thickened, and the outer surface roughened where muscles and fasciae are inserted ; the foramina for the vessels are enlarged, and osteophytic deposits on the inside of the skull are noticed. The hyper- trophy of the bones at the base of the skull causes often a narrowing of the foramina for the cranial nerves; in the numerous cases in which a tumour of the hypophysis has been found the sella turcica has been found enlarged in all directions, and the bones in the neighboiir- hood may show atrophy or are displaced. The lower jaw shows great hypertrophy both of the body and rami. The kyphosis of the cervical spine is due in some cases to the bodies being smaller in fx'ont than behind. The vertebrae have their anterior surface roughened, and are the seat of osteo- phytes. The ribs are compact and increased in size, likewise the sternum, and especially the clavicle. The long bones of the exti-emities show chiefly osteophytes, roughness of the muscle-insertions, and enlargement of the tubercles and condyles; the same is noticed in the bones constituting the carpus and tai'sus, the metatarsal and meta- carpal bones, and are somewhat broader and have small exostoses on the palmar and plantar surface; the plialanges show thickening of the epiphyses and osteophytes. The heai-t has been found hypertrophied and dilated, the blood-vessels show thickening of tlie intima and adventitia, and degeneration of the muscular coat, and these changes can be traced to the smaller vessels. Of the iyiternal organs some show marked enlargement, such as the spleen, liver, kidney, lymphatic glands, but the enlargement is not always due to hypertrophy. The stomach and intestine are often enormously enlarged, and in one case the intestine was twice the normal length (Sternberg). The pancreas, in some cases in which there was diabetes, was found fibrous, and other changes, such as necrosis, have been noticed. Of the external genital organs we have already spoken. The uterus has been found in an infantile condition in several cases, with the ovaries in a state of cystic degeneration. The thyroid gland may be either atrophied or enlarged, or the seat of cysts, or affected with colloid degeiieration. Nervous system.—Thickening of the peripheral nerves, and of cranial nerves, and of the nerve- roots with neurotic change, has been noticed, also enlai-gement of the spinal ganglia, due to sclerosis, also various changes in the spinal cord (sclerosis of the posterior column); the brain has been found hypertrophied by Klebs, but the most noteworthy effect is seen in the hypo- physis. We may say that in all cases of acro- megaly in which a post-mortem was made, about thirty-six in number, the hypophysis or a part of it was found affected. In most cases a tumour was found to spring from and replace this organ. The nature of the growth varied a good deal: in some cases simply hypertrophy of the pituitary body was found, with or without colloid degener- ation ; in others an adenomatous growth ; whilst in others the tumour was of a sarcomatous or gliomatous nature ; the tumour by its growth compresses the neighbouring parts ; pressure on the chiasma may cause atrophy of the optic nerves, or by backward extension affects the oculo-raotor nerve and the cerebral peduncles. Pathogenesis.—As yet it cannot be said that the pathology of acromegaly has been satis-