477 BRAIN, AFFECTIONS OF BLOOD-VESSELS iwidu the tilires and Imrrowing its way lietweeii them, and so pushing theui apart. When this has reached a certain degree tlie filires are nip- tvired, and luiless this hteniorrliage is an ex- tremely small one, it is I'are for the fiVjres not to suffer with such severity as to lie permanently damaged. Of course the blood may go on flow- ing into this cavity until some such accident occurs as ruptiu-e into the ventricle, and then we have a condition leading to sudden death. On the other hand, the hiemorrhage may hi' arrested at any particular stage, and then \\ e have to deal with an encysted mass of blood, dark in colour and clotted. (iii.) Subsequent Changes ii>. Effused Blood.— The clot undergoes changes which eventuate in the formation of a cyst containing some straw- coloured fluid, fat globules, pigment, and other granules, as well as blood-crystals. The wall of the cyst, which was at flrst inflamed, also luider- goes changes which result in the formation of connective tissue, of course at the expense of the nerve-fibres. Consequently we have a cyst formed which is in the nature of a cicatrix, in which a greater or smaller number of the nerve structures projier have been impaired or destroj-ed. In cases in which the ha;m(irrhage has occurred on the surface of the brain the hfemorrhage may be widespread, but ivA large in quantity, and the resulting symptoms may be merely those of initial irritation, with perhaps some slight but temporary paralysis. <_)n the other hand, the hciemorrhage may be such as to result in lacera- tion of the brain substance, and consequent widespread and profound destruction of the cortical grey matter ; but such conditions ai-e much more fre(]uently met with as a result of traumatism and consequent fracture of the skull than from spontaneous hfemorrhage. Hajnior- rhage may also occur indistinguishable, so far as initial symptoms are concerned, from the ordinary form, into soft tum(.)urs, especially gliomata. Diagnosis.—A. From Alcoholic Tont^mio.— Probably the most serious mistake \\'hich may be made in reference to any case of cerebral hfemorrhage is in mistaking it for <i case of alcoholic toxtcmia. There is no doul)t that the conditions closely siimdate each other. Often the first fiid given to a pfitient who has had symptoms such as are met with in cerebral haemorrhage is to administer some form of alcoholic stimukuit; ;uid when the practitioner is confronted with a patient flushed, it may be dazed, or even unconscious, tind strongly j^er- vaded with the odour of alcohol, he may natu- rally enough be misled into regarding the case as one of simple drunkenness. But closer examination will usuidly reveal certain definite difterences; and if the patient has, associ;ited with those symptoms, conditions which favour hfemorrhage, or would suggest its occurrence. it is well to err on the side of safety, and treat the Cfxse as one of reid illness. These conditions are, first of all, the presence of a high-tensif)n pulse, with perhfips hypertrophy of the heart, iuid often detectaljle atheroma, even in a. radi;d artery. If the urine be examined and lie found to contain albumin, ii still further confirmation is given to the likelilu)od that the condition is one of hfemorrhage into the bnun. It is often difficult, especially if the patient is comatose, to definitely make out unilateral parfxlysis, but ag. a rule, even if the pfitient is comtitose, ix certain difference c;ui be made (jut between the arms on the two sides in regard t(.) their resistance to passive movement, for thiit on one side will probfxbly be found to lie much more flficcid than that on the other side. It will also be noticed that the stertorous, heavy breathing results in a flapping of one cheek as comp;ired with the other, find that the pupils ;ire usually sm;ill and often unequal. Besides those symptoms which en;ilile one to recognise the condition that has to be dcfdt with, the patient's ;tppearance may perhaps be of some help. It is usually the case thfit the flushing is marked, and the patient is perspiring freely; liut this is not the invariable rule, for it does occfisionally luippen that tlie jjatient is excessively pale, and the skin cold and clammy. The condition of the jjulse has been Sfiid to be usually a high-tension one, and this is undoubtedly the Cfise in the initifd con- dition. It m;xy be tlmt if the hfemorrhage h;is been liirge, fxnd the condition is consequently tine of collfipse, the pulse may be snudl; but as a rule this is onh' a temporary phenomenon, and it very soon becomes high find rfipid. In regiird to the lireathing, it is often fit first riither slow and sighing in character; ;is the coma deepens it becomes rapid find somewhat shallow, find it may in time—find this is usually of ominous significiuice—assume the Cheyne- Stokes' type. /)'. From 7'h)r>ml>c>s/s.—Tliis is particularly important, not so much from its iicadeinic interest fis from the different line of trcfitment thfit nifiy be called for. The manner of onset lifis some difignostic iinportfuice. In contrast with the sudden onset and fdisence of premoni- tory symptoms, so chfiracteristic of emliolism fuid ha'inorrhfige, we not infre([uently find in thrombosis that headache, dizziness, or localised tingling sensations have been present for a short time pi'evious to the attack. In thrombosis consciousness mtiy not be lost, find the condition of the pulse is entirely different from tluit met with in hsemorrhage. The pfitient filso, fis fi rule, will be older ; yet it is liy no means easy to differentiate those conditions, because the conditions of iitheroma and firterial degenera- tion present in the one and leading to the con- dition of rupture of vessels, are filso present in the other, and are conducive to the occurrence of clotting. So that the whole clinical picture