BATRACHOCEPHALUS 365 BatrachOCephaluS.—A monstrosity with a frog-liko head, e.;/. in anencephalus. BatraCOSiS.—Diphtheria associated with enlargement of the snhhngual and siil)maxil]ary glands. Batter Pudding'. See Invalid Feed- ing {Prepared <i)id Frediijested Foods). Battery. See Eleci'hicity. Battey's Operation. tIk removal of the ovaries, by abdominal (or vaginal) section in order to induce a premature menopause; ()()l)horectomy. See Uterus, Non-Malignant Tumours of [Fibroids). Battledore Placenta.—A placenta with the cord inserted into its margin. See Pregnancy, Diseases of Placenta and Cord (Anoiiut/ies of Placenta). Battley's Solution. ^ Liquor Opii Sedativus. The official Extractum Opii Li<i%ddwm is similar to it. See Opium. Bazin'S Disease.—Erythema indura- tum or erythema induratum scrofulosorum. See Erythema ; Skin, Turerculosis of. Bdella Medicinalis. — Tlie leech; hirudo. Beaded Ribs. See Rickets (Chest). Beans. See Physiology (Food and Diges- tion). Beau lieu. See Therapeutics, Health Res()1!ts ('!'!(( Riviera). Beaumds' Law.—The alleged im- numity of a mother against contracting syphilis from her syphilitic child, the child having been apparently infected directly by the paternal semen ; Colles' law. Beberina.—An alkaloid, used as a sub- stitute for quinine, obtained from Nectandra Rodixvi. See Alkaloids. Becquerel Rays. — The emanation from radium ; they prddiice effects on the tissue closely similar to those set up l)y the Rcintgen rays. See Radium. Bednar's Aphthae.—Miliary nodules or yellowish-white patches, tending to V)ccome idcers, found on the palate in infants during the first month of life ; are supposed to be due to friction during suckling or bottle-feeding. Bed-Sores. See also Alcohol (Clinical Uses) ; Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels (2'rophic Changes in Skin); Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal ; Spine, Surgical Affections of (Fracture-Dislocation); Typhoid Fever (Com- plications); Ulcers and Ulceration (Imperfect Nerve Supply).—A bed-sore is an inflammatory condition of the skin and underlying structures, produced by a combination of causes, and re- sulting in local death of the tissues affected. A form of sore, almost identical with the bed- sore, often results from the careless management of various forms of splint (Splint pressure-sore). Causes.—Bed-sores are liable to appear in jaatients who are much devitalised from any such cause as old age, attacks of acute fever, especially typhoid fever, kidney or liver affec- tions, cardiac disease, chronic phthisis or other jjulmonary condition, resulting in venous stasis. Any interference with the nerve supply of parts, such as occurs in injuries or diseases of the peripheral nerves, spinal cord, or brain, and in some forms of insanity, is a most potent factor favouring the formation of bed-sores. If to these predisposing causes be added pro- longed and excessive pressure, especially on a portion of skin lying immediately over a bony prominence—for example, the sacrum, the great trochanter, the malleoli, the tips of the heels, the shoulder-l)lades, elbows, or anterior superior iliac spines—the development of a bed-sore is almost assured. Moistm-e from the accumulation of skin secretions, the escape of urine, fiieces, or wound discharges, promotes the process by improving the conditions favourable to bacterial life, the growth of micro-organisms in these secretions being perhaps one of the most important ele- ments determining bed-sore formation. Excoriations, which may develop into true bed-sores, sometimes form where two skin surfaces remain constantly apposed, as in the region of the scrotum or labium, under pendu- lous mammte, or between fingers or toes con- fined in a splint. Clinical Features.—Two varieties of bed- sore are met with clinically: (a) the acute bed-sore ; (6) the chronic bed-sore. The Acute Bed-Sore.—This form, which is due to a lesion of the trophic nerves of the skin (Charcot) or to vaso-motor paralysis, comes on very rapidly, sometimes in a few days or even in a few hours, after serious injuries to the spinal cord or brain. It has also been met with in cases of cerebral htemorrhage, throm- bosis, or embolism ; in cerebral softening and tumour, as well as in encephalitis and even in meningitis. Areas of gangrene may also occur from lesions of nerve trunks, such as periplieral neuritis. The part pressed upon becomes red and congested, while the surrounding parts are oedematous and swollen. The I'edness disap- pears on pressure with the finger, but the skin does not pit. Blisters soon form, and the skin loses its vitality. The commonest site in cerebral cases is over the upper and inner part of the Tjuttock, on the side opposite the nerve lesion, i.e. on the para- lysed side; while in spinal lesions the sore usually forms over the middle of the sacrum. Often these acute bed-sores form on parts where there is no pressure, such as the anterior abdominal wall, dorsum of foot, etc. In the insane a form of acute bed-sore is not