ARTERIES, LIGATURE OF 271 3. Superior thyroid artery (from external carotid) with inferior thyroid artery (from tiiyroid axis of subclavian) of the same side. 4. Arteria princeps ccrvicis (from occipital) with deep cervical artery (from superior inter- costal) of the same side. 5. J3ranches of the external carotid, especially facial and superior, thyroid with branches of extei'nal carotid of the other side. The chief co7n})lic.ations which are apt to follow ligature of the common carotid artery are cerebral symptoms referable to the interference with the blood-supply to the brain. These are very fre- <]uent, and vary from giddiness and twitching to hemiplegia and even death. So serious are tlie cereliral symptoms that it must be laid down, as a rule in surgery, that ligatui'e of the common carotid artery is not justifiable in any case in which ligature of the external carotid would with equal certainty arrest the hcemor- rhage, or cure the condition requiring ligation of one of these arteries. Apart from sejjtic complications which are avoidable, a low form of pneumonia, possibly due to interference with the blood-sujjply to the respiratory centre in the medulla oblongata, has been noticed not infrequently. Ligature of the External Carotid Artery. —This vessel, one of the two divisions of the common carotid artery, reaches from the upper border of the thyroid cartilage upwards to the level of the neck of the condyle of the inferior maxilla. Its length is 2i| inches. This vessel, about the same size as the internal carotid artery, lies at first in front of the latter; it, however, soon comes to lie superficial to it. In its upper part it lies embedded in the parotid gland. The lowest inch of the artery, i.e. below wliere it is crossed by the digastric and stylo- hyoid muscles, and the hypoglossal nerve, is tiiat part of the vessel to whicli alone a ligature is applied. Operation.—The incision lies along the anterior border of the sterno-cleido-mastoid, from the level of the angle of the jaw to the lower margin of the thyroid cartilage. The skin, fascia, and platysma muscle having been divided without injury to any of the numerous veins (facial, lingual, and superior thyroid), the artery is readily seen, crossed by the digastric and stylo- iiyoid muscles, and the hypoglossal nerve. It IS possible to mistake the internal carotid for tlie vessel, an error that can easily be avoided by finding a branch arising from the external carotid (the internal carotid gives off" no branch hi the neck). The artery is best tied f of an inch above the bifurcation of the parent tnuik, care being taken to avoid including in the ligature the internal jugular vein, which lies to its outer side, but may overlap the artery. Tiie aneurysm needle is passed from without inward. Ligature of Internal Carotid Artery.— This is an operation very rarely called for. The incision required is identical with that described for the external carotid. The artery lies at first behind the external carotid, and in securing it the aneurysm needle requires to be passed from without inward, i.e. away from the internal jugular vein ; care must also be taken to avoid including in the ligature the vagus nerve. Ligature of the Lingual Artery.—This is an operation which the surgeon is frequently called upon to perform, generally as a pre- liminary to removal of the tongue. It may also be required for profuse haemorrhage from the tongue in advanced lingual epithelioma. The artery arises from the external carotid, opposite the great cornu of the hyoid bone. In its course to the tongue it lies under cover of the hyoglossus muscle, and along the superior margin of the great cornu of the hyoid. The vessel near its origin is crossed by the hypo- glossal nerve, which then runs forwards at a higher level than the artery and superficial to the hyoglossus muscle. Operation.—The chin having been drawn up and turned to the opposite side, and the great cornu of the hyoid bone having been identified, a curved incision is to be made from just below the angle of the jaw to the hyoid bone, and thence upwards to a point h inch below, and external to the symphysis of the lower jaw. The skin, platysma, and fascia having been divided, the lower part of the submaxillary gland is displayed and drawn upwards, when a triangle is exposed, whose base, which is upper- most, is the hypoglossal nerve, and whose sides are the anterior and posterior bellies of the digastric which meet below at the apex. The floor of the triangle is the hyoglossus muscle. If now the fibres of the hyoglossus be divided transversely below the hypoglossal nerve and above the great cornu of the hyoid, the lingual artery will be found lying on the middle con- strictor muscle. Provided that the hypoglossal nerve is avoided, it is immaterial whether the aneurysm needle be passed from aliove down- ward, or from below iipward. Ligature of the Superior Thyroid Artery. —This, the first-branch of the external carotid artery, arises from it just above the bifurcation of the common carotid artery. It is frecpiently divided in suicidal cut-throat, when of course both ends of the cut vessel must be ligated. In thyroidectomy it is frequently ligated pi'ior to removal of the thyroid gland. Operation.—A three-inch incision is made along the anterior border of the sterno-cleido- mastoid muscle with its mid point just above the upper margin of the thyroid cartilage. The skin, platysma, and fascia being now divided, the sterno-cleido-mastoid is retracted, when the carotid sheath is at once seen, and the first branch arising from the external carotid will be found to be the superior thyroid artery enter-