BED-SORES 366 uncommon. It occurs most frequently in general paralytics in an advanced stage, and especially when convulsive attacks are frequent, injuries received during the convulsions being the starting-point. In manj^ cases no undue pressure has been possible. Bullae and vesicles form on such parts as the inside of the knees, angles of the scapulse, and especially the heels. The skin becomes very red, rapidly loses its vitality, and a black, dry eschar forms and slowly separates, leaving a deep cavity which is very sluggish in healing. The Chronic Bed-Sore.—The first evidence of an ordinary bed-sore is a dusky, reddish-purple colour of the skin, gradually growing darker, till it becomes almost black. The surrounding parts are oedematous, and vesicles may form, which, on bursting, reveal the papillae of a greenish hue. A tough greyish-black slough then forms, often painlessly, over the most prominent point of pressure, and this gradually spreads both in width and depth till it may reach the periosteum or bone. In not a few cases the sloughing over the sacrum has ex- tended till it has involved the spinal canal and given rise to a fatal septic spinal meningitis. After the sloughs separate, a raw unhealthy graiuilating surface is left, which, however, under appropriate treatment, tends to heal rapidly. Bed-sores are often the starting-point of general septic infection of a pysemic kind, which may determine the fatal issue in chronic diseases affecting debilitated persons. Prevention of Bed-Sores.—It would be too much to say that bed-sores are entirely pre- ventible by careful nursing, but there can be no doubt that since the advent of tlie modern trained nurse they have become, not only much less common, but also much less severe, than in the days when the care of the sick was largely in the hands of untrained and ignorant persons. Without applying it too rigorously, however, it may be accepted as a safe working rule, that, save in the case of completely paralytic and insane patients, the occurrence of bed-sores must be laid to the account of the nurse. For the occurrence of splint pressure-sores there is no excuse. The surgeon is responsible for the application of the splint, and in the adjustment of pressure due allowance should be made for any nervous or other debility. The first essential to the prevention of bed- sores is the regular changing of the patient's position, so that no one part of the body will be pressed upon for any length of time at a stretch. No matter what the primary disease may be, the nurse should vary the position from time to time, unless she receive distinct orders that the patient is not to be moved. The changes need not be great—a slight rolling on to one or other side for a short time now and again ; a small cushion under the hips at one time, and under the shoulders or small of the back at another ; alternately bending and straightening the limbs. Such variations in most cases will be sufficient. In patients more than usually liable to develop bed-sores, special means must be taken to re- move pressure entirely from the bony points which are but thinly covered with soft tissues, and to distribute it widely on the surrounding- parts. Large pads of wool, with a hole cut in the centre to receive the prominence; ring- shaped air or water cushions (not too tightly distended) fulfil these purposes if they are regu- larly attended to and readjusted. In some cases a complete water-bed is necessary in addi- tion to these more purely local measures. By placing the patient on a prone couch, pressure is removed from the parts most likely to become the seat of bed-sores. It is necessary, however, to keep a sharp look-out on the anterior superior iliac spines, knees, ankles, and ribs, lest sores develop in these situations. Absolute dryness of the skin is another im- portant factor in preventive treatment. Once every day, if not oftener, the susceptible parts are sponged with soap and water, thoroughly dried, and then rubbed with methylated spirit, which is allowed to dry on the skin. After this, the part is dusted with powdered boracic acid, this being not only a good drying powder, but also antiseptic, checking the development of bacteria in the decomposing skin secretions. Various emollient applications, e.g. balsam of Peru, resin ointment, boracic ointment, etc., have been suggested as substitutes for dusting powders, but they are on the whole less cleanly and less satisfactory. In patients who perspire freely, these pre- cautionary measures must be taken more fre- quently ; and when there is incontinence of urine or faeces, as in paralytics, special means must be adopted to prevent wetting of the patient's linen and bed-clothes. Sheets must be changed whenever they become damp, and when a water-bed is in use, a layer of blanket should intervene between it and the sheet to absorb the moisture which is apt to condense on the surface of the indiarubber. Bandages, wearing apparel, and sheets must be kept free from wrinkles, and crumbs and other extraneous matters must be carefully ex- cluded. TreatiMbnt of Bed-Sores.—Once a bed-sore has formed, every effort must be made to pre- vent its spread. The precautionary measures above described are maintained and if possible increased. The broken surface is kept clean by frequent washing with mild, yet efficient anti- septics, such as boracic lotion, carbolic acid (1 in 40), or lysol (1 in 100). Dry absorbent dressings are applied and frequently changed. It is sometimes found necessary to employ moist or oily substances, e.g. boracic poultices, euca- lyptus ointment, or balsam of Peru, to facilitate