230 AORTA (THORACIC), ANEURYSM AND DILATATION OF if to relieve the pressure. This attitude may thus become suggestive of the disease. The same attitude is, however, observed in stenosis of the trachea from syphilis. When the larynx is the seat of obstruction its " respiratory ex- cursion " becomes increased, and the head is generally thrown back. When one bronchus, usually the left, is compressed, certain unilateral signs result. There is deficient expansion, and there' may be a slight change in the percus- sion resonance on the affected side, while the respiratory murmur is simply weak or replaced by rhonchi. When unilateral, such rhonchi are significant of pressui'e, ordinary bi'onchitis being a bilateral condition, but pressure on the trachea, as well as on a bronchus, is common. A bronchus may become completely obstructed, and then the lung may pass into a pneumonic condition, often with purulent infiltration, such as is more commonly seen in cases of intra- thoracic new growth. Rises of temperature, to a considerable height, but of short duration, are often witnessed in cases of aneurysm under treatment without there being evidence of obvious cause. Possibly the iodide treatment has had something to do with their occurrence. The pulse-rate is often increased in cases of intrathoracic aneurysm, and such increase is probably promoted by large doses of iodide of potassium : the subject will be referred to later. The phrenic nerves are said to be involved in rare cases of intrathoracic aneurysm; the patients suffering from spasmodic contraction of the diaphragm with a sensation of constriction round the base of the chest. The writer has had no experience of the condition. The pupils and palpebral fissures are occa- sionally rendered unequal by interference with sympathetic fibres, the left side being the affected one. Irritation of these fibres induces enlargement of both pupil and fissure, paralysis —the more common—diminution of both pupil and fissure. Unilateral disturbance of the secretion of sweat may occur, but neither of these conditions is peculiar to aneurysm. Dysphagia may result from direct pressure of an aneurysm on the gullet. Usually the degree of pressure is not extreme, and like most aneurysmal symptoms the dysphagia is curiously, and seemingly capriciously, liable to vary in severity. In a few cases some degree of emacia- tion, is present, due to interference with nutrition from compression of the thoracic duct. General anasarca can hardly be regarded as a feature of intrathoracic aneurysm, but in anevir- ysm involving the first part and inducing aortic incompetence, it may be present as in ordinary heart cases. The special dropsy that occurs as the result of pressure by the aneurysm on the superior cava and innominate veins has already been considered under " inspection" in the section devoted to physical examination of the chest. Arterial or pulse changes, as far as the carotids are concerned, have been included in the same section, but it is as impracticable as undesirable to make an absolute distinction between physical signs and symptoms. The Pulse.—It must be remembered that, without referring to anatomical irregularity of the arteries, aneurysm is not the only disease that may alter the radial pulse of one side. Local disease of the origin of subclavian or innominate arteries, quite apart from aneurysm, may diminish or annul one radial pulse. More- over, in very rare cases of intrathoracic aneurysm both radial pulses may be annulled without any interference with the nutrition of the parts supplied being noticeable. Local atheromatous disease—apart from aneurysm— at the origin of the innominate artery will inter- fere with both carotid and subclavian trunks of the right side, while on the left side local disease may produce a similar residt by implicating both orifices in the aorta. Setting aside such fallacies, aneurysms interfere with radial pulses in different ways. The classical explanation given is the interposition of the elastic sac between the heart and affected vessel, but it is obvious that there are other ways in which an aneurysm may interfere with the radial pulse of one side, as, for instance, pressure of the sac on the outside of the innominate or left subclavian trunks, or the origin of the main vessel being from the sac itself, in which case the orifice may be transformed into a mere slit, or be obstructed by fibrin deposited on the sac wall. Without considering further the possible ways in which an aneurysm may interfere with a radial pulse, the characters of the radial pulse when so interfered with have to be studied sphygmographically. " There is alteration in the character of the pulse-wave" itself, and something more than a diminution in the diameter of the vessel and in the strength of the beat. A recent author remarks, " The most significant indication of aneurysmal interference with the pulse is delay of the beat." It is not the beginning of the pulse-wave that is delayed, however, but the reaching of its maximum intensity. The sphygmogram shows the up- stroke to be more sloping, the height less, the summit of the curve more rounded, and the down-stroke more gradual. So to palpation the pulse feels smaller, more compressible, and more continuously full between the beats. The pulse is more or less " smoothed down," to borrow a phrase from the author referred to (Sir Wm. Broadbent). The late Dr. Fagge, in his Practice of Medicine, states that " if the aorta were con- verted into a large sac the impulse of the heart would be lost in this space, and the blood would flow out through the efferent vessels in a con- tinuous stream." He states, "A case once in Guy's Hospital exemplified this, the pulse at the wrists became quite imperceptible, but the