ADRENAL GLANDS 71 tion—bronzed diabetes—but here an examination of the urine should prevent any mistake. Jaun- dice should hardly give rise to any difficulty, though " urobilin jaundice" is more likely to resemble the bronzing of Addison's disease. Pregnancy, by giving rise to pigmentation, amenorrhoea, and vomiting, may imitate the disease, but the examination of the mamniiB and abdomen shoidd never be omitted when this fallacy is possible. In some cases of granular kidney the face is distinctly pigmented. In phthisis also the face may be so pigmented as to suggest some secondary infection of the adrenal bodies. Li advanced malarial cachexia the skin is dis- coloured from melaiiEemia, but the history should prevent any difficulty arising. A general pig- mentation of the skin has been known to occur in lai'ge melanotic growths of the liver. In exophthalmic goitre, rheumatoid arthritis, and cases where arsenic has been taken for a long time, pigmentation of the skin may be very noticeable. In generalised sclerodermia the skin may be darkened, but it is at the same time liard, and thus differs from what is seen in Addison's disease. Nitrate of silver may also produce a permanent discoloration of the skin— argyria—which, however, is very rarely seen, and is not accompanied by the constitutional symptoms of the disease. Long-continued irrita- tion of the skin by pediculi and abstinence from washing may lead to great alteration of the colour of the skin; this condition ("vagabond's disease "), if combined with insufficient food, may suggest Addison's disease initil simple treatment with soap and food alters the aspect of the case. In syphilis the skin may be darkened, as is also seen in pellagra. In the dark races the debility due to beriberi or other causes must not be for- gotten, wliile the influence of exposure to the sun, to tar, coal, and great heat on the skin must be borne in mind. (ii.) The diagnosis of Addison's disease with- out bronzing is very difficult, and depends on the presence of marked constitutional symptoms without any other adequate cause. It must be distinguished from the severe forms of anosmia. In pernicious anfemia the examination of the blood should be sufficient, while in splenic antemia the enlargement of the spleen would at once raise grave doubts as to the diagnosis of Addison's disease. In cases of latent car- cinoma of the stomach, examination of the vomited matter might be of value. The prognosis of cases that are sufficiently well marked to be recognised is very bad indeed, and death sooner or later occurs, but the interval is very variable. In some cases arrest of the symptoms may occur, and this may be due to the administration of adrenal extract. Though it is probable that the disease may become latent, cases reported as being cured always raise the question of the possibility of an error in dia- gnosis, since a positive diagnosis is olten far from easy. If the disease is in some cases due to adrenal inadequacy, and in other cases due to that factor and irritation of the adjacent sympathetic combined, the administration of adrenal extract, which very probably relieves patients in the first category Vjut is powerless for good in the more complicated cases, should be of value in prognosis, since the prognosis woidd be less gloomy in the simple but, unfortimately, rarer cases of simple atrophy of the adrenal bodies giving rise to glandular inadequacy. The treatment may be considered under two heads: (1) the general lines of symptomatic treatment; and (2) the special treatment by the administration of adrenal gland substance— opotherapy. (1) The general lines of treatment consist in preserving the patient's strength, guarding against any depressing factors, and the ameliora- tion of symptoms as they arise. Food of a nutritious and easily digestible character should be given, and stinuilants such as champagne or whisky are generally required. Cod-liver oil in an emulsion and malt extract should be given unless it disturV)s digestion or sets up looseness of the bowels. As tonics, strychnine and arsenic should also be given, care being taken to prevent any gastro-enteritis from the latter. If asthenia is at all marked, the patient should remain entirely in bed and should not be allowed to raise his head, as there is great danger of sudden and fatal syncope. The patient will be unable in nearly all in- stances to perform his ordinary work, but he must be protected from worry and undue excite- ment, and must not be allowed to over-exert himself. Exposure to cold, which is borne badly by the subjects of this disease, must be avoided. Constipation should be combated by mild remedies, for severe and even fatal consequences have followed vigorous purgatives. Diarrhoea should be met by bismuth and opium, while vomiting requires most careful feeding, ice, liquid, predigested food in small quantities at frequent intervals and effervescing drinks, while bismuth, opiiun, and oxalate of cerium should be tried. (2) Treatment by Adrenal Substance.— This has been given in various ways with the view of supplying the internal secretion of th'^ glands. It has been given hypodermically or by the mouth, in the form of raw adrenal glands, as a tinctiire, and usiially in compressed tabloids containing the extract of the glands of sheep. Schafer and Oliver found that the active principle is not destroyed by artificial gastric digestion in vitro, and hence the administration by the mouth instead of subcutaneous injection appears theoretically correct, but Swale Vincent's observations, already referred to, throw some doubt on the efficacy of adrenal substance given