86 ALCOHOL In health, small supplies of alcohol may be completely oxidised into CO,, and HgO with the exception of fractional quantities excreted b}' the kidneys and by the lungs. So long as this result obtains, tlie so-called "physiological amount" (estimated at about 1 k oz. of alcohol, and equal to three ounces of whisky or one pint of claret, or one and a half pints of ale for a robust man) has not been exceeded. Under abnormal conditions larger amounts may be burnt off in the economy. (.3) Its elimination. — Beyond this physio- logical allowance a larger proportion, 3 to 5 per cent, but according to Strassmann as much as 10 per cent, is excreted unchanged. Binz allots an excretion of 2'91 per cent to the kidney, of 1"60 per cent to the lung, and of 0"14 per cent to the skin. Alcohol does not seem to be eliminated by the intestine. Special Physiology.—2'he actions of alcohol upon the organs and. functions.—The action of alcohol varies much with its dose and concen- tration. Between its " minor" effects, some- times called "physiological," and its "toxic" effects there is no strict demarcation. The action varies also with individual susceptibility, which may amount to an idiosyncrasy. Digestion. — Congestion, which may in the case of concentrated alcohol lead to ecchymosis, is accompanied with increased peristalsis and a feeling of warmth. The glandular secretions which small amounts stimulate are arrested by large and strong doses; but even a moderate proportion of alcohol perceptibly retards their digestive action. Thus peptic digestion is slowed by 2 per cent, greatly slowed by 10 per cent, and almost suppressed by 15 per cent solutions (Schulz), and the activity of ptyalin is similarly reduced (Aitchison Robertson), though less markedly than by tea. The duo- denal, pancreatic, and intestinal digestions suffer secondarily. The appetite is diminished or sup- pressed and assimilation is checked. Circulation.—Quickening and increased force of cardiac action are the initial but temporary results of the stimulation of the heart and of its excito-motor ganglia by alcohol. This is accom- panied by a relaxation of the blood-vessels, which is conspicuous as a cutaneous flush, but is not limited to the skin, and is due either to active dilatation (Binz) or to vaso-paralysis (Schmiede- berg). The systole of the heart is hurried as well as forcible, and its diastole is curtailed. These pecidiarities are reflected in the charac- teristic alcoholic pulse, with its tall and abrupt but short wave, and with its sudden loss of ten- sion. The result is a greater speed of the cir- culation and a lessened venosity of the blood; and the nervous system is " stimulated " by an increased supply not only of arterial blood, but of the alcohol which it conveys. Flagging energy is revived, depression is changed to brightness, cerebration is quickened, and warmth restored to chilled surfaces. But at a later i stage the conditions are reversed, the blood cir- culates more slowly, its respiratory interchanges \ are diminished, and it contains relatively more carbonic acid. ' Respiration.—The respiratory rate is acceler- \ ated at first, and there may be some increase ' in the depth of breathing secondary to the genei'al excitation; but hyperpncea is not a feature of alcoholic j^oisoning. Later, respira- tion becomes slower, and, under the influence of i excessive doses, laboured, stertorous, and irre- j gular till it finally ceases. Early arrest of | respiration, such as that caused by prussic acid, I is exceptional. Metabolism and its Products: Heat and Energy.—Alcohol obviously acts as a fuel in the proportion in which it is oxidised, and to that | extent it may save from oxidation some of the ! fat of the tissues and possibly some of their | albumen (Fokker and J. Munk). The marked decrease in the urinary phosphates and siil- phates and in urea, whilst uric acid is largely , increased (Chittenden), is, however, generally | ascribed less to this vicarious combustion than to the depression of metabolism by alcohol. According to J. Munk, in the special case of large doses administered to animals this depres- | sion is preceded by an initial increase in the nitrogenous catabolism coincident with the stage j of excitement and of agitation, which also occa- : sions an increased expenditure of oxygen (von ; Boeck and Bauer). But with the onset of con- i firmed intoxication the oxygen intake drops by j 13 per cent, the production of CO.3 by 12-4 per ; cent, and the heat production by 19 per cent (Deplats, quoted by von Lcyden). 2'em2xrature, Tliermogenesis, and Thermo- taxis.—Alcohol restores body heat in chill and in collapse, but fails to maintain it, as it wastes . by increased radiation part of the warmth which it supplies. A worse fault is that it soon checks j its own combustion as well as that of other heat- j producers. Soulier ascribes to it a direct tern- j perature-lowering action upon the central nervous | system, although a considerable rise in tempera- | ture has sometimes been recorded in acute poisoning by alcohol. Perhaps also the fine mechanism of heat-regulation may suffer in its peripheral conduction. A blunted appreciation for external temperature often leads in intoxica- tion to a continued exposure to cold ; but the 1 depression of the temperature is usually the ' combined result of a lessened production and of an increased expenditure of heat. Chilliness succeeds to the preceding glow, and in severe intoxication algidity supervenes. Hence the ^ special danger of alcohol in intensely cold J atmospheres. I The production of energy or the capacity for work, muscular and nervous, rises and sinks with the cardio-vascular efficiency. Whilst the heart is cheered more work may be done with | )