ANEURYSM 178 greatly opposite the opening and for long dis- tances both up and down, the unsupported superficial veins sufli'ering more than the deep. They lengthen, also, and become tortuous. The dilatation is accompanied by great hyper- trophy of the vein wall. The venules leak, the subcutaneous and other connective tissue be- comes oedematous and thickened. The arteries beyond the opening contract. Symptoms and Signs.—-These may be best shown by a typical case described by Bramann. A man was stabbed in the axilla; bled very "freely, but stopped it himself by pressui'e, and it did not recur. His arm swelled greatly, the forearm and hand becoming bluish. As the swelling subsided, in the fourth week the patient felt a pulsating swelling in his axilla, which in- creased gradually until the fourteenth week, when the man tried to work ; then it and the swelling of the arm increased. On admission the left forearm was 3 to 6 cm. too large, cool (always 3°-5° lower), and bluish. Sensation in the hand was lowered, the grasp much weakened. Subcutaneous veins of fore- arm and inside of arm uuich dilated and tortuous. In the axilla a 4^ cm. scar just below level of head of humerus ; beneath it a hen's-egg-sized swelling I'aised and thinned the skin. The swelling was soft, compressible, obviously pulsat- ing, continuous with a much dilated vein above and below. There was a strong continuous thrill, increased with each systole ; both pulsation and thrill were felt along the lai'ge veins above the clavicle and in the lower arm. A loud bruit increased with systole started in the swelling, and was heard in the neck and even in the palm. The pulse below the swelling was weak and delayed. Compression of the subclavian stopped all signs, and the axillary swelling and veins collapsed. Pressure on the main vessels below the swelling caused it to become dangerously tense. Elevation to the horizontal caused the veins to empty. Pressure through the swelling towards the humerus, insufficient to close the artery, stopped the venous phenomena, and caused improvement of pulses at the wrist. The patient complained of weakness and sense of weight in the part, rendering it useless for work. Mutatis mutandis, this description applies wherever the arterio-venous commxuiication may be. If it is indirect we must add to it the pres- ence, deep to the chief dilatation of the vein, of a firm, irregularly spherical, pulsating sac, deep to which again is the artery. The symptoms and signs may be more or less marked in different cases according to the size, depth, and other circumstances of the com- munication. The constant pulsation and thrill, and in many cases the constant bruit, are sources of the greatest annoyance to the patient. The bruit is generally a very loud one, but of course varies in quality. William Hunter, who first recognised the true nature of this trouble, com- pared it to a long whispered " r." Diagnosis.—There can be no difficulty except in deep cases with little or no superficial varix. The recognition of a continuous thrill and mur- mur, with systolic increase, usually conducted both centrally and peripherally, will make the diagnosis; a venous pulse is an equally import- ant sign. To distinguish between the direct and indirect communications a firm tumour, never disappearing, deep to the venous swelling, must be recognised. It varies from a nut to a fist in size, being usually quite moderate. " Cirsoid Aneurysm" is distinguished from arterio-venous fistula by dilatation not only of the trunk, but also of all the branches of the trunk upon which the aneurysm is situate. Thrill is slight if present. The bruit is feeble, or is produced only by light pressure, is not in- creased by systole. The pulsation is uniform over the whole swelling, and does not cease but gets weaker on compressing the main trunk. Prognosis.—This is graver in the indirect than in the direct form; for, although it sometimes remains stationary for a long period, the circum- scribed hfematoma between the vessels tends, like all arterial hiematomata, to rupture. This form must, accordingly, be treated when recog- nised. The arterio-venous fistula soon reaches its full development; but its consequences, as shown in the above case, may demand treat- ment. Further, it may increase steadily. When the brain is included in the area of malnutrition serious cerebral symptoms are likely sooner or later to arise; e.g. after eleven years Colzi's patient {vide antea) died of jugular thrombosis and acute cerebral oedema. Treatment.—In the direct form an elastic sup- port may be sufficient, perhaps with a special pad over the opening. Should this not be enough the proper treatment both for this and for the indirect communication is to cut down and tie the artery and vein above and below the opening, either going through the venous dilata- tion or by the side of it as may be most con- venient, and then excising the communication. These operations are often difficult and danger- ous where the circulation cannot be well con- trolled ; it is therefore necessary in such case to weigh the matter well before operating. Aneurysms of the Upper Limb These, taken all together, are very much less common than those of the lower extremity. Causes.—Up to the lower third of the brachial the great majority are not true aneurysms, but arterial htematomata—the results of cuts, pmic- tures, and lacerations. A few cases result from contusions (single, or slight but often repeated) and violent wrenches. The great majority of apparently spontaneous aneurysms below the axillary are due to embolism.