BALNEOLOGY 350 wrack (Fucus vesiculosis) are used at many marine resorts (Nairn in Scotland, Margate, etc.). 7. Gaseous Muriated Baths (Germ. Sool- bdder) (Nauheim).—Some muriated waters con- tain free carbonic acid gas in sufficient quantity to affect the skin as a mechanical stimulant. Even a subthermal or tepid bath of this kind gives quite a warm and stimulating impression. It is therefore possible, by means of effervescing baths (both of the muriated and of the chalybeate class) to combine the tonic and sedative and antipyretic effect of cool temperatures with an active peripheral stimulation. It has been already shown that ordinary subthermal baths strengthen and slow the heart's action and open the peripheral circulation. The addition of salt and free gas accelerates and enhances this peri- pheral effect, with increased redness of the surface, expansion of the capillaries, and a corresponding sense of warmth. Besides the direct effect thus produced on the distribution of the circulating blood, it is believed that in- direct effects on the heart and other organs are produced through the vagus, vaso-motor, and other nervous centres (see under Section IV. " Heart Affections"). If the temperature of the bath is reduced below a certain point peri- pheral expansion is antagonised by the vaso- constrictor effect of cold, and blood - pressure rises. In addition to cardiac affections, these baths are employed for their sedative and tonic action on the nervous centres. Graduated Swedish exercises are frequently taken in con- nection with these baths. The latter can readily be artificially prepared and adminis- tered in the patient's own home, but not with the same advantage that attaches to the favoui'- able circumstances of the health resort. " Arti- ficial Nauheim baths " usually contain two to three per cent of salt and two to three per mille chloride of calcium, and sufficient alkali and acid to make them effervescent. The weaker bath is first used at 95° F., and for subsequent baths the temperature is gradually diminished and the saline strength increased. Soolbader, similar to those of Nauheim, are given at Oeynhausen and Soden in Germany, and are artificially prepared at many of the British spas. f! 8. Sulphur Baths.—Most of the numerous cold and thermal sulphur waters are employed externally in the form of baths. Some import- ance appears to attach to the combination in which the sulphur element occurs. Sulphu- retted hydrogen is readily absorbed through the unbroken skin, but not alkaline sulphides. Again, the associated constituents of the water, as in muriated sulphur waters, powerfully affect the action of the bath. Pure sulphuretted waters, like those of Weilbach or Strathpeffer, are employed as baths in eczema and other skin affections, in subacute rheumatism, the results of rheumatic fever, and in gout. The thermal sulphur waters, like those of Luchon, are also much used in skin affections and in rheumatism, but their content of sulphur is so small as to make absorption improbable. The use of the baths, however, tends after a time to increase or revive old eruptions. At Aix-la-Chapelle they are habitually prescribed in cases of syphilis to gauge the activity of the specific infection and to promote the elimination of toxins. Some of the very hot thermal sulphur baths of Japan, which are also much used in syphilis, contain considerable quantities of free sulphuric acid, which increases their stimulant action on the skin. The same remark applies to one of the baths at Rotorua in New Zealand. 9. Pine Baths.— Among other aromatic pre- parations an extract of pine leaves is often made, and employed as an agreeable addition to the warm bath at many of the spas. 10. Sand Baths.—In the old procedure of arenation the body, or a portion of it, is im- mersed in sand naturally or artificially heated to from 110° to 130° F. Profuse perspiration is caused, with redness of the skin and crusting of the sand upon it. The normal loss of heat is therefore hindered, and the body-heat may rise as much as three or four degrees. These baths are recommended in cases where a profuse diaphoresis is required, as in some chronic kidney diseases, and for their local effect in joint affections, and especially in degenerative arthritis. They have been employed from ancient times in the island of Ischia, and are used at Lavey in Switzerland and elsewhere. 11. Solar and Radiation Baths. —• The practice of exposing the body to the solar light and heat dates from remote times, and the modern " sun bath," which is employed with undoubted advantage in many sanatoria, is but a revival of it. The use of electric radiation has been recently introduced and can be quite readily applied, both locally and generally, as a "radiant heat bath." It is undeniable that a powerful thermal effect is produced on the enclosed part; but in what way the differing forms of energy contained in the solar or electric radiation affect the tissues has yet to be accu- rately determined. IV. General Balneo-Therapeutics Apart from the common hygienic use of baths for the maintenance of health and the pre- vention of disease, baths have a wide medical application in the treatment both of acute and chronic affections. In acute disease they are most often employed for their temperature effects— for example, in pyrexial and inflammatory con- ditions, in cramp, convulsion, and other nervous affections, in failure of the heart, whether from syncope or venous engorgement, and in other conditions of profound debility. They are also used in acute diseases of the skin and of internal