APHASIA 24] liave seen, reduced, so far as his speech functions are concerned, to the [)Osition of a young child who is unable to understand spoken language, to speak, to read, and to write, in the treat- ment of such a case the same methods of educa- tion and training must be employed which are employed in the training and development of the speech faculties in the young child. And in cases of isolated or partial aphasia (word-deaf- ness, motor-vocal aphasia, word-blindness or agraphia) the same principle must he carried into effect, viz. the training, after Nature's method, of the particular speech faculty which is damaged or impaired. (See Physiological Intro- duction.) In cases of motor-vocal aphasia, as in cases of ordinary motor paralysis, the patient should be encouraged to practise, regularly and freijuently, speech movements. In cases of word-blindness and agraphia the patient must for a second time be taught to read and to write. The Medical Jurisprudence op Aphasia Aphasia and Will - Making.—In cases of aphasia important medico-legal questions, such as the ability of the patient to manage his affairs, to make a will, etc., every now and again arise. The following is an outline of the more important points which arise in con- nection with these questions :— Speaking generally, it seems to me that from a medical point of view, if an aphasic patient is able to make a will, he is, in most cases, at all events, so far as his mental condition alone is concerned, qualified to manage his affairs; thougli in many cases, owing to the aphasic condition (the difficulty in communicating with the patient which the aphasic condition entails, and the paralytic condition with which the aphasia is so often associated), it will be con- venient and advisable, more especially when his affairs are complicated, that they should be managed for him. It is impossible to make any general state- ment regarding the will - making power of aphasic patients which can be applied to all cases. Some aphasic patients are able to manage their affairs and to make a will, others are not; each case must he decided on its oum merits. There is, as Dr. Hughlings Jackson has pointed out, no single well-defined entity—loss of speech or aphasia. Hence the question, "Can an aphasic make a will?" cannot be answered any more than the question, "Will a bit of string reach across this room ?" can be answei-ed. The question should be, " Can this or that aphasic patient make a will ?" In connection with the will-making power of apliasic patients the following points must be kept in view :— (1) That several different varieties of speech defect are included under the tei-m aphasia, namely, word-deafness, word-blindness, vocal- VOL. I motor aphasia, and agrajjhia; and tiiat the will-making capacity is by no means the same in these different forms or varieties. Hence in each particular case it is necessary to determine the exact form of aphasia which is present. (2) That it is necessary to draw a distinction between the subcortical aphasias on the one hand, and the cortical aphasias on the other ; for, in the subcortical forms, thought and in- ternal speech are usually luiaffected, whereas, in the cortical forms, internal speech and thought are usually in some degree, and often pro- foundly affected. (3) That in some cases of aphasia these dif- ferent varieties of speech defect are met with in an isolated form, whereas in otlier cases they are combined. (4) That difi'erent cases of aphasia differ, not only as regards the nature of the speech defect, but also in degree — that is, as regards the severity of the special speech disturbance l)y which they are characterised. (5) That in some cases of aphasia there is great difficulty in communicating with the patient (in making him understand the ques- tions which we desire to put to him); and that in other cases the patient has great difficulty in communicating with us (in making us under- stand his wishes and ideas); and that in some cases both of these defects are combined. (6) That in some cases of aphasia the intel- lectual faculties are little, if at all, impaired, while in others they are profoundly altered. (7) That in many cases of aphasia the emotional faculties are markedly disturbed ; and that in some cases, as the result of the brain disturbance—the brain lesion on which the aphasia depends, or with which it is associ- ated—the judgment and affections of the patient are perverted, so that he takes unreasonable likes and dislikes to relatives, friends, persons who are in contact with him, etc. It will be readily understood that in conse- quence of these circumstances there is, in many cases of aphasia, very great difficulty in forming a correct estimate of the mental condition of the patient and of his will-making power. Further, the capacity of patients affected with aphasia for making a will largely depends upon the nature of the will, whether simple or com- plicated ; and is especially difficult when the patient has not, prior to the development of the cerebral lesion, thought out the manner in which he wishes to dispose of his affairs (the details of his will), or given any instructions to his lawyer regarding his will. It is liardly necessary to say that it is essen- tial in the interests of justice and of the patient's rejiresentatives and heirs that the most scrupu- lous care be taken not to suggest to the patient what he should do (how he should dispose of his property, to whom he should dispose of it, etc.). No attempt should be made to obtain the 16