511 BRAIN, SURGERY OF characteristic symptoms of laceration show them- selves in the shape of spasm or rigidity in certain groups of muscles. This, of course, will only be the case where the site of injury is in the sensori- motor area, and appears to be due to the super- vention of inflammation or spreading oedema in the injured part. Where the laceration is very severe, and disorganisation of the centre has taken place, paralysis may take the place of spasm. Laceration of the brain may be followed by yellow softening, oidema, or aljscess formation, while cysts occasionally form as the result of hfcmorrhages on the surface or in the substances of the brain. These conditions, again, may be followed hy traumatic epilepsy, motor or sensory paralyses, etc. One curious and not infrequent result of laceration of the brain is the condition known as cerebral irritation. It may come on a few hoiu-s, or more commonly two or three days, after the accident, and is supposed to be most frequently met with in injury to the frontal lobes, which are the seat of the intellectual and mental functions. The patient lies on his side, and will not be persuaded to lie on his back. His knees are drawn up and his arms flexed. The eyes are tightly sliut, and he resents extremely any attempt on the part of the surgeon to open them for purposes of examination. The pupils are contracted and react to light; the pulse is weak and somewhat slow; the temperature not far from normal; the urine and fjBces may be passed in bed. The patient tosses about in bed in a restless way, takes no interest whatever in what is going on about him, and can hardly be got to answer any question. He is in a condition of extreme irritability, and if disturbed he freqviently swears in the most profuse manner. This condition may pass off" in a few days, the patient becoming less irritable, and the other symptoms gradually disappearing. In other cases serious and permanent damage results to his intellectual faculties, while in some instances meningitis may ensue. The condition known as qireading oedema of the brain occasionally follows injury to the brain, such as contusion or laceration. As a result of effusion of blood or serum, or the pressure of depressed bone, or abscess (or even a tumour), the circulation in the veins of the primarily affected part is hampered ; this leads to further local eff"usion of serum, followed in turn by more pressure, and so on. In this way a large part of the brain may become progressively oedematous, the process spreading from an original point of pressure or irritation. The chief clinical impoi't- ance of spreading oedema is that it gives rise to symptoms of compression of the brain. In severe cases of concussion or contusion of the brain, it is frequently noted that the recol- lection not only of the accident itself, but also of what may have happened some minutes, hours, or even days before the accident, is entirely blotted out of the patient's memory. In most cases this is regained, but in some the loss is permanent. Treatment of Concussion.—In the first stage the symptoms of shock must be met by keeping the head low, and applying warmth and friction to the surface of the body; a warm-water enema may be of some use, but alcoholic stimu- lants are only to be given with great caution in cases of profound and obstinate collapse, as their use may induce too severe reaction, and tend to produce haemorrhage or inflammatory action. A passing stimulant, such as aromatic spirit of ammonia, or inhalation of strong smelling salts, is less objectionable. Such drugs as strychnia and strophanthus used hypodermically must be reserved for desperate cases. Nothing must be given by the mouth until the patient is sufficiently conscious to swallow. Irrigation of the head with hot water is said by Horsley to be of great use in bringing about reaction in cases of severe con- cussion. The treatment of the second stage is to be directed towards preventing excessive reaction. The patient should be liept in bed in a dark and quiet room, his diet shoukl be light, his bowels sliould be kept freely open, and on no account should he be allowed to read or transact any- business until convalescence is well established. The danger of allowing a patient to use his brain during the stage of reaction after a severe con- ciission can hardly be exaggerated. Brain abscess, neurastlienia, or even insanity are some of the probable results of this indiscretion. If the reaction be excessive and meningitis seem to be impending,, leeches or blisters should be applied behind the ears, and a large dose of calomel given. The treatment of contusion and- laceration of the brain is practically identical with that oF concussion. If symptoms of inflammation, abscess, or compression arise they must be dealt with in the way described inider those headings. In cases of cerebral i7-ritation the use of an ice - bag to the shaved head, small doses of bromide of ammonium, and a digestible but nutritious diet are the chief additional points of importance. Compression op the Brain Compression of the brain may be either general or local. "General compression," or, as it is more commonly called, " increased intracranial pres- sure," signifies increased pressure of the cerebro- spinal fluid on the whole central nervous system. This condition is met with in such cases as hydrocephalus, meningitis with eff"usion under the arachnoid, or tumours situated at the base of the brain, which by their pressure lead to