OF BLOOD-VESSELS 482 BRAIN, AFFECTIONS and hemianopsia in any case of hemiplegia, the leg is likely to suifer more than the arm, be- cause the leg fibres of the internal capsule are posterior to the arm fibres, and therefore pre- sumably nearer to the diseased area. A similar condition as regards vision may also arise from the affection of a vessel supplying the occipital lobe. (See page 463.) Aphasia.—-When the lesion causing hemiplegia is on the left side of the brain, speech is apt to be interfered with so as to result in some form of aphasia {q.v.). In left-handed patients a right- sided brain lesion may also give rise to this, while a left-sided lesion in such a patient may not result in aphasia. Dr. Hughlings Jackson has also pointed out that in cases of right hemiplegia, when the patient is not left-handed, and when there is no aphasia, the leg, as a rule, suffers more than the arm; while the converse is also true, that in a patient with right hemiplegia, in whom the leg suffers more than the arm, aphasia is not so likely to result. The reason for this, of course, lies in the considerable area intervening between the leg area or fibres and the speech area or fibres, as compared with the small space which separates the hand or arm area or fibres from those subserving speech functions. Rigidity.—Besides the actual powerlessness or paralysis which is present in the limbs on the affected side in hemiplegia, there is also usually rigidity : first, the initial rigidity occurring at the onset of the paralysis, ascribed to irritation of fibres; second, secondary rigidity coming on after the lapse of weeks, or it may be months ; and, third, permanent contracture in which actual structural changes have taken place in the muscles, and perhaps in the joints. This is really the late resulting condition of secondary rigidity. It is not always equally marked, for often in the early morning the limbs are less stiff; and one curious phenomenon is, that often when the patient yawns the hand or arm, at other times rigidly contracted, may open or relax and become momentarily limp. The ex- planation of the rigidity is still obscure. Dr. Hughlings Jackson ascribes it to the unantagon- ised cerebellar influx, and this seems by far the most feasible explanation, although it is not easy to understand why it should not be established, on such an hypothesis, from the very commence- ment when the cerebral influence is cut off. The Reflexes.—Along with this rigidity there is increased activity in the deep reflexes. The knee-jerk is unusually active, not only on the side paralysed, but also on the other. It is really more correct to speak of both sides being weakened, one considerably more than the other. And so it is also with the knee-jerks ; both are increased, that on the weaker side more than that on the other. Often, also, there is a rectus clonus, and a foot clonus may be present on the paralysed side at least. The wrist and elbow reflexes are also increased, and often also the jaw-jerk. The superficial reflexes are said to be usually diminished, but there is change to be noticed in most cases in the plantar reflex at least, namely, that the contraction of the toes which follows stimulation of the sole is not, as it usually is in health, a flexor spasm, but an ex- tensor spasm. Usually at first there is some difficulty with the bladder, namely, in passing water, and retention may result unless it is relieved. This, however, is usually a transient phenomenon. Constipation is common, but rarely is there incontinence of fteces. Swallowing may be difficult at first, and articulation may be interfered with. But except in cases in which there is a lesion on each side of the brain, such difficulties are usually only temporary. Vascular Lesions of Crus and Pons.— The foregoing are the conditions met with usually in cases in which the cortex or the white matter, or the internal capsule, are diseased. When the lesion affects the crus cerebri, there is in addition to the hemiplegia an affection of the third nerve on the side opposite from the hemiplegia, that is, on the same side as the lesion. This may be complete or incomplete. If the region affected is the upper part of the pons, the hemiplegia is of the usual type, namely, face, arm, and leg on the side opposite the lesion. If, however, the affected area is the lower part of the pons below the point where the tract subserving facial movements crosses to its nucleus, the paralysis is what is known as crossed or alternate hemiplegia, the face being affected on the same side as the lesion, the limbs on the opposite side. In such a condition the external rectus muscle on the same side as the lesion is also liable to be paralysed. Simi- larly, there may be wasting and weakness of the tongue on one side, and of the lips on the oppo- site side from the lesion in the vicinity of the hypoglossal nucleus of one side ; but such a case of crossed hemiplegia is exceedingly rare. Thrombosis in Cerebral Veins and Sinuses The thrombosis to which we have directed atten- tion in the previous pages characteristically occurs in arteries. The veins and sinuses of the brain are, however, also occasionally the seat of a condition of thrombosis, which gives rise to important, some- times grave symptoms. Such thrombosis is either simple, non-infective, the result of some general condition; or, secondly, infective, the result of some local contamination with septic material. 1. Simple Thrombosis.—This is most common in children in the first six months of life, gener- ally as the result of acute diarrhoea or some other wasting disease. On this account it has been called " marasmic." It usually affects the longitudinal sinus, although it may extend into one or two of the neighbouring sinuses as well. The cerebral veins also may suffer, and under certain conditions, for example after an attack of typhoid I fever, a vein may be the only vessel blocked.