BLOOD, PHYSIOLOGY AND CLINICAL INVESTIGATION OF 422 hedra. They are met with now and then in lencocythtemic l)lood, and in the spntnm. Their source and significance are still unknown. Spectroscopic Examination.—The spectro- scope has not yet been much employed in clinical work, at least in this country. It is, however, frequently important to find out whether an abnormal pigment, such as methtC- nioglobin, be jaresent or not, as, for example, in poisoning with chlorates of the alkalies. Either a microspectroscope (such as that of Alibe with scale of wave-lengths attached) or a direct vision pocket spectroscope may be eniploj'ed, the former, however, being the more suitable. It is merely an ordinary microscope, with the spectroscopic part taking the place of the ocular. The little glass cell containing the fluid is focussed first with ordinary eye-piece, and then the spectroscope is substituted and the position of the absorption band or bands noted. I need hardly refer here to the spectrum that one ordinarily gets, viz. oxyhsemoglobin, but emphasise rather the importance of l;eing able to distinguish methajinoglobin. The charac- teristic absorption band of this pigment lies close to Fraunhofer line C, but on the D side of it. It is a narrow but well-defined band. By action of ammonium sulpliide solution this pigment is rapidly reduced to hfemoglobin (" reduced " haemoglobin). IV. Bacteriological Examination. — It is necessary at the present day for the clinician to be able to examine the blood in cases of possible organismal infection. Here only a few general directions will be given as to the prin- cipal methods employed in bacteriological ex- aminations of blood, as full details will be given in the articles on the different parasites. {See also articles on Septicjemia, Pysemia, Relapsing Fever, etc.) In order to make this method of examination complete, the blood has to he examined along the following three lines :— (1) Microscopic examination of films and hanging drop; (2) Plate and other cultures ; and (3) Inoculations into animals. Certain precautions have to be adopted in the removal of blood, a good routine plan to adopt being the following :— Clean the skin over the part from which you wish to get the blood (ear or finger), with nail- brush and warm soap and water, wash with alcohol, then with 1 in 1000 sublimate solution. The latter is then removed by washing with alcohol, and finally with ether. Now constrict the finger with a piece of lint, pass a needle through the Bunsen flame, and rapidly prick the skin. Shake off the first drop, then dip sterilised platinum loop into the fresh drop of blood, avoiding contact with the epidermis, and inoculate successively gelatin and agar tubes. Plate cultures are afterwards to be made. At the same time films are taken and stained. It is as well to remove the haemoglobin from the red corpuscles by the following mixture :— Carbolic acid (5 per cent watery solution), 6 parts. NaCl sol. (satm-ated), 30 parts. Glycerine, 30 parts. A useful stain is that recommended by Vincent, viz. cai'bol. methylene blue with 1-2 per cent watery gentian violet. For examination of parasites in living con- dition, the blood has to be examined in hanging drop on hot stage. Plehn's method for the examination of malaria parasites consists in coating the skin with a thin layer of fluid paraffin, then pricking the skin through this and examining the drop of blood in a layer of fluid paraffin between cover-glass and slide. In many cases it is necessary to get a larger quantity of blood, then one may obtain it directly from a vein on back of hand or the median vein of the forearm. In many cases it is necessary to examine the l>lood drawn direct from the vein. Of course in all cases the greatest care has to be taken that everything is perfectlj^ sterilised. A short reference may be made to a reaction that is of great value in the diagnosis of typhoid fever, viz. Widal's reaction. It depends upon the fact that tiie blood serum of typhoid patients from the l:)eginning of the second week of the illness, tliroughout convalescence, and for a varying period afterwards, possesses (in a dilution of at least 1 in 25) an agglutinating action on typhoid bacilli. If the serum be not diluted so far as this, then the fallacy comes in that blood from persons not suffering from typhoid, in a dilution of at least 1 in 10, may have the same action on the bacilli. This is not to be confused with Pfeiffer's intra-peritoneal reaction, where the immunised serum causes the bacilli to swell up and dissolve. In Widal's reaction the blood is taken from the lol)e of the ear, collected in a capillary tube, and is then centrifugalised in order to allow the serum to separate. A pliitinum loopful of typhoid bouillon culture and one of serum are brought together and examined in hanging drop, or simply spread out on a slide with a cover-glass. If the reaction occurs, then the following dilutions are made in order to determine the point at which agglutination appears (see "Typhoid"):— "01 c.c. serum in 1 c.c. typhoid liouillon culture = 1 :100. •02 c.c. serum in 1 c.c. typhoid liouillon culture = 1 : 50. •04 c.c. serum in 1 c.c. typhoid bouillon culture = 1 : 25. The reactions often occur at once, l)ut may be delayed from half an hour to two hoiu-s. Blood-letting. See Liver {Congestion, Treatment); Phlebotomy.