532 BRAIN, ABDOMINAL Brain, Abdominal.—The solar plexus of the sympathetic nervous system. See Physi- ology, Nervous System {Splanchnic Fibres, Abdomen). Brain - Fever. — Inflammation of the brain or its meninges, or, as commonly used, any rise in temperature with cerebral symptoms. Braising". — Slow cooking of food in a closed vessel, the meat being just covered with an extract of animal and vegetable juices instead of water. See Invalid Feeding {General Pre- paration of Meats). Branchial. — Resembling or pertaining j to gills, or (in the mammals) to the branchial arches and clefts which are their embryological | representatives. See Neck, Region of. Branchioma. — A tumour, usually a , fibro-chondroma, developed from the margin of a branchial cleft; a preauricular aj)pendage; a supernumerary auricle. See Neck, Region of. Brand's Method.—Hydrotherapy in the treatment of fevers, e.cf. sponging, the wet pack, or the full bath in typhoid fever. Brandering.—Rapid cooking of meat by holding it over a clear, smokeless fire. See Invalid Feeding {General Pi-ejMi-ation of Meats). Brandy.—Spiritus Vini Gallici; an alco- holic preparation containing ethylic alcohol (not less than 43-| per cent by volume), a volatile oil, and ethers; used in the preparation of the official Mistura Spiritus Vini Gallici (egg flip), of which the dose is 1 to 2 fl. oz. See Alcohol. Brash.—A slight attack of sickness, or, in the form of water-brash, the eructation of bitter fluid from the stomach ; pyrosis. Brass Poisoning.—Symptoms (known as brnssfouncler's ague) met with in brass-casters, due either to the zinc or the copper. See Trades, Dangerous {Copper and Brass); Neu- roses, Occupation. Brassy Bodies.—Dark-coloured red blood corpuscles in malaria containing parasites ; globuli rossi ottonati. Brassy Cough. See Aorta, Thoracic, Aneurysm of. Braun-Lossen's Operation.—The pterygoid method of reaching Meckel's ganglion in treating trigeminal neuralgia. See Nerves, Neuralgia {Surgical Treatment). Braxy.—Diseased, e.g. the flesh of a sheep that has died by disease or accident, or, more specially, of one that has perished from anthrax or splenic fever. See Food {Characteristics of Unsoundness). ,