246 APrENDICITIS Anything which will produce an erosion of the mucosa will predispose to appendicitis. Micro-organisms may cause erosion or ulcera- tion, but one of the chief causes of ulceration is the presence of enteroliths or fascal concretions. Although in many cases these exist without causing any lesion, still, they are always a source of danger, and may produce an abrasion when subjected to pressure by severe muscular exertion or traumatism. Constrictions in the lumen of the tube may be due to the scars of old healed ulcers. In the Appendicitis obliterans (Senn), the so- called catarrhal appendicitis, which has already been referred to as a senile change, the mucosa is denuded of its epithelium and the muscular coats are much atrophied, the calibre of the tube is considerably reduced, and there is often injection and some slight adhesions of the peritoneal coat. The whole tube appears thicker, harder, and more resistant when palpated or felt with the fingers, and it seems to be in a state of erection. In the more advanced form the mucosa is entirely destroyed and its place taken by connective tissue. The distal end is often completely obliterated, and converted into a solid mass of fibrous tissue. This process goes on at some points more rapidly than others and causes strictures; these can be easily shown by Abbe's method of distending removed appendices:— Abbe's Method {New York Med. Journ., July 10, 1897):—" Within a few hours after re- moval, the appendix should be distended with 95 % of alcohol through the conical nozzle of a small syringe tied tightly into its cut end by a ligature, which is tightened as the syringe is withdrawn. The distended organ is then immersed twenty-four hours in alcohol of the same strength." If it is now sliced centrally from end to end, its interior will be a revelation to the surgeon. He may find (1) a fiecal concretion blocking up the channel, (2) interior ulcerations, (3) cica- tricial strictures, (4) multiple strictures with intermediate pockets containing suppurating and catarrhal products, and confined by greatly hypertrophied muscular and mucous coats, and (5) partial oblitei'ating appendicitis. In cases where there is a stenosis of the tube, colic is caused by the appendix endeavouring to extrude fajces and other matters which have happened to lodge in it. An abscess may form in the tube (empyema), and by its rupture infect the surrounding peritoneum. Should the stricture be near the csecal end of the process, then it may dilate to a great size, look- ing like a sausage ; if near the distal end the ex- tremity often has a bulbous appearance. In some cases there is simply inflammation of the process, characterised by swollen mucosa and lymphoid tissue, with perhaps submucosal hasmorrhages and general thickening of the tube. Resvlts of the Infection of the Appendix by ■ Micro- Organisms 1. Chronic and Acute inflammatory conditions. 2. Ulceration and perforation as a result of the first condition, and leading to (a) abscess with limiting walls, or (b) general peritonitis. 3. Necrosis and sloughing—a more severe form of inflammation due to the excessive dose or virulence of the poison or the slight resisting powers of the individual. Complicating these last two conditions we may have :— 1. Thrombosis of the ileo-colic vein with multiple or single abscesses in the liver. 2. Pjdephlebitis. 3. Diffuse cellulitis of the retro-peritoneal tissue. 4. A gangrenous inflammation of the cellular tissue and even of the neighbouring organs, such as the kidney. 5. Thrombosis of the iliac veins with re- sulting oedema of the lower extremities, and occasionally pulmonary embolism, which of course is always fatal. 6. Cases of fatal hfemorrhages from ulcera- tion into arteries, such as the iliac and circum- flex, have been reported. 7. Suppuration of the mesenteric glands is also a complication which has been noted. The SYMPTOMS of the various conditions are very difficult, and often impossible to differen- tiate ; the mildest attack of appendicitis may suddenly assume a most serious character. Pain, tenderness, and slight fever will indicate in a general way an attack of the so-called "Catarrhal appendicitis," or simple inflamma- tion of the appendix, but there may be no warnings in cases of ulceration going on to perforation. The first symptoms may be sudden acute pain with vomiting, followed by rising temperature. Continued high temperature, with rapid pulse and sometimes occasional chill, and the presence of a tender mass in the right iliac fossa with muscular rigidity or tenderness and resistance in the right lumbar region, would indicate the formation of pus. Cases where necrosis and sloughing ensue often set in with great violence; an initial rigor, severe agonising pain, very rapid pulse and high temperature with continued vomiting (this often of a dark colour) would indicate sloughing. The whole appendix may slough and the gangrenous inflammation extend to neighbouring tissues and organs, but most commonly the sloughing is localised to one spot, at the tip of the process or along its free border; at one of these points there is often a fsecal concretion. Active processes leading to slough- ing are now attributed to the presence of the colon bacillus, which under certain conditions becomes very virulent. In some cases throm-