432 BONE, DISEASES OF skin in the case of superficial bones, such as the tibia. The swelling over its most prominent part becomes elastic and more yielding, and finally yields definite evidences of fluctuation, indicative of the elevation of the periosteum, and of the acciimnlation of pus beneath it. This stage may be reached at the end of twenty- four hours, or not for several (eight to fourteen) days. When the bone is deeply seated (upper end of the femur or humerus), the swelling develops late and is ill-defined ; the surface skin may present no alteration whatever, or only a dilatation of the superficial plexus of veins ; on palpation the soft parts may present a feeling of resistance. Fluctuation finally reaches the surface, until, either with the help of the knife, or spon- taneously, at the end of ten days or a fortnight, the swelling bursts, and a large quantity of matter escapes, mixed or not with blood, often with considerable amount of fat droplets, and, it may be, minute particles of bone. These latter confirm the medullary origin of the suppuration. The fcA^er then remits, and the pains and other symptoms are relieved. In acute cases in whicli fluctuation is apparent, one finds on incision that the periosteinn is lifted up, and that the bone is bare; the extent of this corresponds fairly accurately with the extent of the lesion in the marrow. Holes may or may not be seen in the cortex. According to the situation, i.e. the relation of the epiphysial junction to the synovial cavity, one may find the adjacent joint infected or not. If the periosteum be extensively lifted up, one may assume the probability of necrosis involving more or less of the diaphysis, especially if infection has been allowed to take place from the skin surface. Such infection reinforces that whicli exists already in the interior of the bone, and which may have become worn out or at- tenuated. The entrance of other organisms complicates the general intoxication, and renders it more serious. In less severe cases, and especially in the minority, where the suppura- tion is purely periosteal, healing may occur without necrosis. This healing, however, may be only temporary; at any subsequent period of life the infection may break out again with the formation of pus, the reopening of the old scar, and, it may be, the formation of a seques- trum (relapsing osteomyelitis). Local Complications. — The symptoms of involvement of the adjacent joint vary from those of simple effusion to those of acute arthritis. The latter may account for little in the clinical picture, being merely an addition to, or an extension of, the suppuration in the bone, or tlie arthritis may predominate, and its symptoms overshadow those of the bone sup- puration from which it took its origin; in the latter cases the bone lesion is apt to be over- looked. Reparation through the ossifying junction be- tween the disc and the diaphysis may occur in- sidiously between two dressings. It reveals itself by an alteration in the attitude of the limb; the direction of the displacement is influenced by gravity or by the action of muscles. It may resemble a dislocation, but may he difterentiated by making out the exact seat of the abnormal mobility, and by recognising dry grating or crepitus. Separation of the epiphysis itself.—This is alleged to be rarer than the above, except the epiphysis at the upper end of the femur ; partial displacement or gliding of the epiphysis is com- mon in other situations. It is often accom- panied by suppuration in the joint. It may take place suddenly or gradually, and may occur without suppuration. Epiphyses which have separated may die and be extruded or reab- sorbed, or they may reunite. Spontaneous fracture of the shaft has chieflj- been observed in the femur. It may take place after some effort or slight injury; it is attended by the usual symptoms of fracture. It may unite quite satisfactorily luider treatment. Spontaneous dislocation has been chiefly ob- served in the hip-joint; it may be attended or preceded by suppuration in the joint, or there may be no suppuration. The hip may dislocate without suppuration, while at the same time the lesion in the shaft of the femur may suppurate in the ordinary waj-, and lead to necrosis. Special Clinical Features in Skull and Pelvis. —In the skull the disease is fortunately very rare, and is chiefly met with in young children. There is intense pain in the head, tlie child is somnolent and drowsy, and this condition may pass into delirium and coma if left alone. Swell- ing may be late; necrosis takes place early. The lesion may be complicated by meningitis or sinus phlebitis, and is then usually fatal. In the pelvis the disease is usually grave in character, and often terminates fatally. In more serious cases, in contrast to what liiis been described in average typical cases, we have a condition related to what is generally meant by the term " pyfemia " in its acute and chronic forms (staphylo-hfemia, Kocher). There are cases in which the lesions in the hones and joints are multiple, but in which the initial lesion in point of priority and intensity stands out pro- minently in the clinical picture. The secondary or metastatic lesions in the skeleton, proceeding from the initial focus, may follow the same clinical course as the original one, or they may run a milder course; they may involute and subside altogether, or result in thickening of the bone or apparently resolve only to develop at a later period into an abscess of the bone. The influence of these secondary lesions on the primary one is injurious—the primary one is more liable to progress without limitation; I the toxins produced in the other lesions depress