216 ANTHRAX mended {see " Malignant Pustule "). It is well to remember that incisions passing through a part already invaded by bacilli increase the chances of general infection. Injections of solutions of iodine, carbolic acid, biniodide, or perchloride of mercury, around the seat of infection, have also been recommended either singly or in combination with excision or cauterisation. All these methods are naturally inapplicable to internal anthrax, for which the administra- tion of iodine tincture (2 to 4 drops every two hours), of sulphate of quinine, or of phenol, has been recommended. It is doubtful whether any of these methods has given satisfactory results when the disease has become generalised. The only method which at present seems to offer a promise of ultimate success is that based upon the properties of the "serum anti-char- bonneux." This method has, however, not been sufficiently tested, and the results obtained so far are not satisfactory enough to justify as yet its regular application to the human subject and its entire substitution for other methods. Prevention o f Anthrax.—The knowledge which we now possess regarding the life-history of the bacillus anthracis, and the various modes of infection of man and animals, indicates clearly the nature of the prophylactic methods which should be and have generally been adopted. Prevention in Man. — With regard to man the following provisions are the most import- ant :— (a) Prevention of sale, consumption, and care- less handling of the carcases of animals affected with anthrax {see " Malignant Pustule " and also {infra) " Prevention of anthrax in animals "); supervision of importation of skins, hair, horn from countries where anthrax is endemic among cattle, sheep, goats, horses, camels, etc.; " fallen fleeces " and " dead hides " should not be mixed with sound ones, if imported at all. It is, how- ever, practically impossible to enforce success- fully adequate regulations. {!}) Disinfection of all suspicious products before they are handled by workmen (wool- sorters, wool and hair workers, rag pickers or sorters, tanners, horn-workers, etc.). The dis- infection of skins is unfortunately a matter ■ of great difficulty. Disinfection by steam damages skins, but may be used for wool and hair if applied with care. Disinfection by formalde- hyde gas might also be used in many cases. (c) Prevention of the production of Dust.— " The precautionary regulations" agreed upon at Bradford specify that noxious wools and hairs, which frequently contain "fallen fleeces," shall be steeped and worked in " hot suds " (soap and water), and afterwards sorted while damp ; that others, which are dry and dusty, shall be sorted over " boards " (open wire work) provided with dust-extracting fans. The collected dust must be burnt. All dead skins and clippings, and bags in which noxious wools and hairs have been imported, must be disinfected before they are sold. The sorting-rooms must be disinfected and kept clean. The sorter must not work if he have any sore or cut upon him, and re- quisites for disinfecting and treating such wounds must be kept in the sorting-room (J. H. Bell). Prevention in Animals.—These consist chiefly in the early discovery of cases of anthrax, dis- infection of dung, fodder, or litter, or any other things which have been discharged by or have come in contact with diseased animals, disin- fection of stables, disinfection and burial of carcases in such a way as to prevent the con- tamination of premises or soil with the blood or dejecta of the dead animal. The anthrax order of 1895 indicates the means of obtaining these objects (a good summary of this order will be found in Crookshank's Bacteriology, 1896, p. 212). The precautions which have to be ob- served in burying the carcases are specially important. The animal must be buried as soon as possible without being opened (to prevent the escape of blood and subsequent formation of spores in the soil), at a depth of not less than 6 feet, in a thick bed of quicklime. Forage, grain, may be infected by the dust from infected soil upon which they have grown ; infected soil may cling to roots which have grown in it. Any kind of fodder coming from infected areas must therefore be looked upon with suspicion. The same may be said of grain imported in ships where there is a possibility of it lieing contaminated with dust from infected hides. Anthrophobia (and Anthropo- phobia).—Morbid fear of society and the inqjulse to shun it. See Ixsanity ; Neuras- thenia. AnthropolOg'y {see also Anthropo- metry; Ethnology; Physiognomy).—Anthro- pology, in its widest sense, is one of the most extensive departments of science, for it is con- cerned with the study of man or of mankind. In its more restricted and more modern sense of the study of man as an animal—the zoological study of man,—it still covers a wide field and embraces many subsidiary and some almost independent subjects. It is indeed very diffi- cult, if not impossible, clearly to delimit anthro- pology from its allied or associated sciences, such as Ethnology, Sociology, Zoology, Physio- logy, and even Theology and Comparative Religion. It is, in fact, a protean subject, and no more than its general outlines can be indi- cated here. There is, for instance, the antiquity of man, which is the special study of Archaeology. Archaeology begins where Geology leaves off; in other words, it takes up the investigation of the remains of the prehistoric period. The