ANESTHETICS—CHLOROFORM 149 patient is in daniior, wlien lie will disfontinne his manipulations, make his wound as safe as circumstances permit, and leave the anajsthctist free to do what is proper. Proposed Treatment.—As to what is proper to resuscitate the patient, opinions and recom- mendations have been infinitely divided. Only a brief mention of many of the proposed methods of treatment can fje ^iven here. Nelaton reconnnended inversion of the patient; Laborde advised seizing the tongue and drawing it rhythmically forwards twenty times per minute; inhalations of nitrite of amyl were at one time favoured; and oxygen inhalations have been beneficial where oxygen was at hand. Maas advised massage of the heart's apex 120 times per minute by the ball of the right tlnunb pressed on the chest wall over it; faradisation of the phrenic and pneumo-gastric nerves, galvanopuncture of the heart, acu- puncture of the heart, and aspiration of the heart have all lieen advocated ; and hypodermic injections of i drachm to 1 drachm of ether, or of to of a grain of strychnia (Reid), or of 4 to 6 ounces of a warm normal saline solution into the thigh, arm, or chest wall, with friction to promote its absorption (Bobroft), have all been or are employed. And the list might be much extended. Some of these methods have been shown to be injurious; others are not always available when required ; some, although undoubtedly efficacious in certain cases, are either only occasionally or rarely called for ; while others still want the test of extended experience ere a verdict regarding them can be safely given. For practitioners, therefore, they are not much to be depended on, and the duty of such a one is clearly, when serious danger threatens, not to lose valuable time in employing them, but to have recourse at once to the standard and sur- passing remedy of artificial respiration, after he has made sure that the respiratory passages are free and unobstructed. Artificial respiration has been proved not only to send air through the lungs, and so aerate the blood if asphyxia be present, supplying the ))est resuscitating agent to the failing nerve centres, but also in syncope to propel the blood aiechanically through the heart and blood- N'ossels. To artificial respiration, therefore, above all other means ought the practitioner to trust, for other methods cannot replace it and are at best but doubtful adjuncts to it, and to be used only if it fails. And then they are little to be relied on. To discuss the various ways of producing ai'tificial respiration is not within tiie scope of tliis article. After-Management of (!a8ES of Chloroform Anaesthesia.—When the chloroform has been discontinued, the duties of the anaesthetist are not quite at an end. Vomiting, shock, etc., may require his atten- tion, and are to lie dealt with on the usual principles. The patient should not he aroused out of the slumber which generally follows anajsthesia. Nothing can be said in conniiendation of the practice, happily now rarely seen, of pinching the patient, shouting to him, slapping his face, or dashing cold water or wet towels on his face or chest. All such measures are uncalled for, even if not injurious. The patient slioidd l)e quietly conveyed to bed, surrounded with warm blankets and pro- tected by hot-water bottles, to counteract the chill and lowered temperature which follow the administration of chloroform. He should be permitted to awake spontaneously after, if possible, an hour or two of quiet sleep, as he will thus be spared the initial smart of his wound, be less exposed to sickness, and the delirious talking and movements which are otherwise probable will be avoided. It is a good rule to ofifer the patient neither food nor liquids of any kind until he feels a desire for and spontaneously demands them, and even then they are best given in only small quantities and of a simple nature. In abdominal sections where retching is so objectionable, total avoidance of even liquids for twenty-four hoiu's involves no danger to the young and strong, and diminishes the risk and the discomfort. For some days after chloroform anaesthesia, when at all prolonged, the diet shoidd be guardedly regulated. A white tongue, a dis- ordered stomach, nausea, sickness, bilious vomit- ing, and thirst are usually observed to follow chloroform administration, and to last, gradually lessening, for three or four days. Little can be done to relieve them, save by quiet and regimen. Inhalations of vinegar fumes from a sponge, continued for at least three hours at a time, have been said by Lewin to arrest chloroform sickness. The writer has not found them have this effect. The use of hydrocyanic acid, with warm epigastric fomentations, and where the vomited matters are acid or l)ilious, warm water rendered alkaline by a little bicarljonate of soda, if swallowed often but in small quantities, have seemed to him much more efficacious. Should any signs of jaundice be observed on the skin or in the urine, the probability of some hepatic disease or degeneration is great, and should awaken anxiety, for death sometimes follows, the patient sinking from visceral changes produced by the an;esthetic. As chloroform anaesthesia always lessens the excretion of urea for some days, the lu'ine shoidd be tested and watched wherever renal degenera- tion is suspected. Conclusion.—The following advice regarding chloroform may be tendered. Do not fear the drug, in spite of its doubtful reputation.