487 BKAIN, TUMOURS OF limited number occur in people over sixty years of age. Tuberculous tumours are most common in children, although the growth may be of this nature even in an aged individual. Gliomata and sarcomata are most common between puberty and middle age, though both forms are met with at other periods. Syphilitic tumours usually occTir during the fourth and fifth decades, wlule carcinoma belongs to the middle and later periods ofjlife. Parasitic tumours are most common in the second and third decades, and are very rare at any other periods. Males are more frequently affected than females, a state of things that has been attri- buted to certain causative factors of cerebral tumour, such as syphilis, injuries to the head, alcoholic excess, and mental strain being more commonly operative in men than in women. This explanation cannot be regarded as wholly satisfactory, how'ever, in that preponderance in the male sex is met with in children as well as in advdts, so that while some or all of the above factors may aid in swelling the number of males as opposed to females affected in adult life, an explanation has yet to be found which will satisfactorily account for a preponderance of males being attacked among children as well as among adults. Trauma has a distinct influence in the genera- tion of a new growtli. Though probably in some cases ascribed to this cause, the growth has been in existence prior to the accident, which only served to evoke more rapidly mani- festations which must, nevertheless, inevitably have appeared without the aid of the injury. On the other hand, years may elapse after the trauma before any manifestations of the tumour are forthcoming. It is obviously diificult to estimate to what extent is justified the belief that alcoholic excess, mental strain, depressing emotions, or a general state of ill-liealth are to be counted among the causes of brain tumours. The station in life appears to play no part in causation, except in so far as the poorer classes are more exposed to the influences of syphilis, tubercle, and trauma, and are more liable to attack by cysticerci and echinococci. Where the tumour is syphilitic or tuljcrculous there is commonly evidence of similar affection in other parts of the body. Metastatic growths are rare, carcinoma being more usually of this character than sarcoma, and the lung is the most common seat of the primary growth. In the rare cases in which parasitic cysts occur in the brain, others of a like nature may be met with in otlier parts of the ])ody. Morbid Anatomy.—Any form of new growth may be met with within the cranial cavity, though the frequency with which different forms occur naturally varies. Tuberculous, syphilitic, gliomatous, and sarcomatous growths are the most common, carcinomata are less frequent, fibromata and osteomata still less so, while cysts, both simple and parasitic, endotheliomata, psammomata, cholesteatomata, lipomata, and neuromata are the rarest forms of tumour. A hypertrophic enlargement of the pntiiitary body, though not a new growth, nevertheless con- stitutes a tumour, and is liable to give rise to the manifestations common to intracranial tumoiu-s; so too large intracranial aneurysms must be similarly classed. Tumours of very varied sizes are met with either singly or as multiple growths. They originate in the bony walls of the cranium, the meninges, or some part of the brain, crura cerebri, cerebellum, pons, and medulla oblongata, and may be fovuid on the surface or deeply bviried in one or other of these parts of the central nervous system. They may be well defined and easily demarcated from the surround- ing brain tissue in some cases, while in others the morbid passes insensibly into the normal, so that the microscope can alone determine where morbid ends and healthy begins. The hone may be rarefied in consequence of the increase of intracranial pressure ; but the reverse of this is commonly met with, the bone being unusually dense and hard. The meninges are thickened, and it may be adherent where a neoplasm reaches the siu'face of the brain, and in some instances limited thickening of the meninges is seen at some part remotely situated from the tumour; but widespread meningitis does not occur except in cases of syphilitic and tuberculous growths. A certain amount of softening or oedema of the parts surrounding a tumour is commonly seen, and the growth may itself be softened in consequence of degenerative changes, which may ultimately lead to disintegration and cystic formation. An accidental condition which may be met with is softening of some area of the brain remote from the seat of the tumour, consequent on obliteration of a blood-vessel through pressure by the neoplasm. Haemorrhages are frequently seen in and about the growth, and in some cases so extensive is the extra- vasation that the microscope can alone definitely determine the dual nature of the morbid con- dition present. In its growth a tumoiu- may insinuate itself between the nerve elements, doing wonderfully little active damage to them in the process. The moi'e solid forms of growth compress the nerve tissues, and then a process of slow atrophy or more rajiid disintegration results in accordance with the rate of growth of the tumour. Dilatation of the ventricles is a common featiu'e, especially when the tumour is subten- torial in situation, and flattening of the convolu- tions of the cerebral hemispheres is an accom- paniment, the sulci being obliterated to a greater or less degree and the convolutions widened. Pathology.—Towards a due comprehension of the problems which have to be considered in