247 APPENDICITIS hosis of tlie vein of the meso-appendix or the ileo-colic vein would predispose to gangrene. Morris attributes it to a proHferating endo- arteritis of the single terminal artery ; he also says that kinking or dislocation of the appendix will cause obstruction to the flow of blood in the vessels, and hence produce axlema of the process as in strangulated hernia, and this may go on to gangrene. Perforation of the appendix preceded by an adhesive inflammation of the peritoneum, which glues the coils of intestines together, does not infect the whole cavity, but a local suppurative peritonitis results, which has for its walls firmly adherent loops of small intes- tines and sometimes omentum. If the appendix 1)0 retro-Ccccal (upwards towards the right kidney) it may become adherent to the posterior wall of the abdomen, and when the perforation takes place it is into the subperitoneal tissue. Should no attempt at localisation take place by adhesive inflammation, then the septic material is rapidly diffused into the whole abdominal cavity, and purulent peritonitis causes death in two or three days. The rupture of an abscess will produce the same result. In many severe cases, suppuration does not take place, and inflammation may gradually disappear with the falling temperature. Most of us have seen cases where these large inflam- matory masses have occurred again and again, always disappearing without going on to sup- puration. I have operated in these cases, and found that the mass consisted, not of a loaded ciceum as many suppose, but of omentum, matted intestines, and inflammatory exudation with great thickening and enlargement of the appendix and neighbouring intestines. Usually a perforation in the appendix has not yet occurred, or if it has, at that point, there has been an attachment of the process to some neighbouring structures. In the 120 cases above alluded to, collected by the writer, there were 11 of gangrene and 36 with perforation. The Formation and Results of Abscess.—In some cases in three or four days there may be quite a large amount of pus ; even on the thii'd day, I have seen abscesses of considerable size form. These cases where there is a localised tumour are comparatively safe, for the pus becomes walled oft' from the general peritoneal cavity. If evacuated before it bursts or extends to other parts, operation is usually safe. The continued increase of tenderness with continued elevation of temperature would guide us as to the progress of the case and the necessity for operative interference. In some cases when abscess is present it is so small and hidden behind the caecum that it is most difficult to find, it may be on the psoas muscle and con- nected with the perforated tip of the appendix. An abscess may discharge into neighbour- ing hollow viscera, as the bladder, colon, and ureter. It is not lujcommon in the female for pus to find its exit by the vagina, especially in cases where the abscess (secondary or primary) is in the pelvis. There may be extensive extra-peritoneal sup- puration, especially in cases where the perfora- tion takes place into the retro-peritoneal tissue ; pus may find its way below Poupart's liga- ment and may discharge here. Perinephritic abscesses often have their origin in the appen- dix ; the pus may penetrate the diaphragm, get into the pleura and simulate empyema. I'us from an appendicular abscess has discharged itself through the obturator foramen and into the hip-joint, simulating hip-joint disease. The appendix has been passed by the rectum, and in one case related to the writer it was coughed up, the abscess perforating the lung where it had become adherent to the diaphragm—until the appearance of the appendix, the medical attendant had never thought the case one of appendicitis. Pylephlebitis has occurred which was only found out at the autopsy to be due to appendi- citis, the symptoms being obscured by those in- dicating the existence of a pylephlebitis. Symptoms.—An attack of appendicitis most commonly commences with a sudden and often very intense pain in the abdomen, followed in a short time by nausea, and perhaps vomiting, with tenderness in the right iliac region over the site of the appendix. There is a rising- temperature and muscular rigidity on the right side of the abdomen—this is the picture of an ordinary onset of a case of appendicitis. If such a train of symptoms occurs in a young person, we may say the case is one of appendi- citis, though we cannot tell what form of the disease the patient is suffering from. Pain.—This usually sets in without previous warning, and is very severe ; it very often comes on at night, and wakes the patient out of his sleep. At first it may be all over the abdomen, but specially in the vicinity of the umbilicus. Sooner or later it becomes localised to the region of the appendix, the point of especial tenderness being midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the inubilicus (M'Burney's point). This jjain has often been mistaken for biliary or renal colic, for the pain of indigestion or ordinary colic. The recm-rence of sudden and severe pain without fever, called by Tala- mon "appendicular colic," is supposed to be caused by the endeavour of the appendix to get rid of fffical contents or mucus in cases where there is a narrowing of its lumen. The appendix is thrown into violent peristalsis under these circumstances. The pain of a perforated tube, or of one in which gangrene is commencing, is often most agonising—in some cases of appendi- citis an attack is preceded for some hours by moderate pain and discomfort in the abdomen, and later this becomes suddenly very acute.