269 ARTERIES, LIGATURE OF for the ligation of an artery in its continuity must be conducted with the most scrupulous antiseptic precautions. Mnillod of Ligation.—The incision is made in the direction of the course of the vessel, and may vary, according to the size of the artery and the depth at which it lies from the skin surface, from 1 to 6 inches in length. In the upper and lower limbs the line of incision corresponds with the long axis of tiie limb. The incision having been carried through the skin and subcutaneous tissue, the deep fascia is divided in the whole length of the wound and the sheath of the artery is exposed, muscles, veins, and nerves which may overlie the arterj- being drawn aside with blunt retractors. The sheath of the vessel must now be opened with care on the side opposite to that on which the vein corresponding to the artery lies. A small piece of the sheath is held up by forceps and an opening is made into it; the sheath is then slit longitudinally for J inch. It is necessary that the sheath be freely opened, for although it is important to detach it as little as possible from the artery, owing to the fact that the vasa vasorum run in it, free linear division of the sheath will entail no risk, and will much facilitate the passing of the aneurysm needle around the artery. The sheath having been opened, it is well to seize each margin of the orifice in it with fine forceps in order to secure this opening, as it may easily be lost sight of. The artery must be identified by its position and anatomical relations, as in certain cases all other means of identification may prove falla- cious. It might be thought that pulsation would enable the operator to identify unhesitat- ingly the artery, and no doubt this is generallv the case; but after a profuse hfemorrhage pulsation is not infrequently absent, and, moreover, a vein may appear to pulsate owing to the impulse being transmitted from the artery. The artery having been identified, the operator isolates the circumference of the vessel for ] of an inch, in case only one ligature is to be applied, or for \ inch if it is considered desirable to employ doul)le ligation with division of the artery between the two ligatures. The aneurysm needle, threaded, should then be gently insinuated between the sheath and the artery from that side of tiie vessel nearest to which the vein is situated. As soon as the l>lunt end of needle bearing the ligature is visil)le on the other side of the artery, the thread is seized with forceps and the needle withdrawn, care being taken not to lift the artery out of its sheath. If thought desirable, a second ligature may now be passed in a similar way about \ or \ inch below the first thread. The ligatures are then tightened and secured by a reef knot, or better, by a surgical knot, i.e. one in which in making the first half of the knot a double twist is given instead of only a single twist as in the reef or sailor's knot. In case two liga- tures are applied, they should be placed at a distance of \ to \ inch apart, and the artery should be divided between them. By the em- ployment of double ligation with division of the artery between the ligatui'es, the retraction of the divided ends takes off all longitudinal strain from the artery, but it is doubtful if the method possesses advantages sufficient to recommend its employment in ordinary cases. Points to ivhich special attention must be directed in the ligature of an artery are :— 1. Each successive incision from the skin surface to the sheath of the vessel must be made of the same length. 2. The sheath must be freely opened and separated from the vessel in the whole of its circumference. This sepai'ation may, I think, be most safely accomplished by gently insinuat- ing the blunt point of the aneurysm needle between the sheath (held tense by forceps) and the wall of the vessel. This manoeuvre must be carried out gradually with extreme gentleness. 3. Before the ligature is tied, the operator must make certain that when the vessel is ligated the pulsation will be absent upon the distal side of the vessel (e.g. in an aneurysm). This may be ascertained by pressure of the index finger upon the vessel, whilst at the same time the extremities of the thread are made tense. Thus the artery is compressed between the forefinger in front and the ligature liehind. 4. A perfectly sterilised ligature must be employed, and the operation conducted with eveiy precaution against wound infection. The three materials generally employed for ligature are silk, chromic catgut, and kangaroo tendon. Silk has the great advantage that in an emergency it can be rapidly sterilised by boiling. Arteries, Ligature of Special Innominate Artery.—Ligation of this large vessel is, as will be readily understood, a very formidable undertaking. The mortality of the operation has, even taking into consideration recent unpublished cases, been something like 90 per cent. The most frequent cause of death has been secondary haemorrhage. The inno- minate artery arises from the upper aspect of the aortic arch, and terminates after ascending obliquely to the right opposite the upper margin of the right sterno-clavicular joint, at which level it bifurcates into the right common carotid and right subclavian arteries. Its average length is H inches. Operation.—The incision is made along the anterior margin of the right sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle in its lower two-fifths. This should extend to just below the supra-sternal notch, and from the lower end of the incision a cut is to be made outwards for H to 2 inches along the upper margin of the clavicle. The superficial