AUDITORY NERVE AND LABYRINTH 328 close relation. The reader is referred to the articles " Brain," " Cerebellum," and " Equi- librium " for a consideration of the mechanism of equilibrium. It may, however, be noted that afferent fibres for muscular sense impres- sions run to the cerebellum in the posterior columns, the " comma" bundle (in Burdach's column) and the direct cerebellar tract, while efferent fibres go from Deiters' nucleus to the anterior horns of the cord through the anterior and antero - lateral columns, thus directly affectmg the muscles. There are also fibres of communication between this nucleus and those of the motor nerves for the muscles of both eyes (Bruce). Auditory Functions.—Air- and. Bone-Con- duction— Weber's and Rinne's Tests.—We may accept the principle that sounds are normally perceived when the vibrations on which their existence as such depends reach the haii'-cells of Corti's organ in the cochlea. This conveyance generally takes place through the structures of the tympanum, namely, the tympanic membrane, the chain of malleus, incus, and stapes, the last commimicating its movements to the perilymph, through this to the elastic walls of the membranous labyrinth, and to the scala vestibuli of the cochlea, the endolymph of which is set into wave motion, identical in character with the compound wave proper to the sound, and the hair-cells are thereby stimu- lated. Such is the course of events when sounds are conveyed through the air, and it is known otologically as "air-conduction." On the other hand, vibrations may reacli the endolymph, the hair-cells, or the nerve directly through the bones, as when a tuning-fork or other vibrating body is placed in contact with the skull. This is " bone-conduction," and is not impaired when the tympanic conducting apparatus is alone diseased, but only when the " perceptive " audi- tory apparatus in its peripheral cochlear cells, its trunk, nuclei, central continuation or cortical centre is organically—or functionally—affected. Weber's and Rinne's Tests. — Any condition which obstructs the entrance of air-conducted sound waves from without acts at the same time as a hindrance to the escape of bone-conducted waves from within. If a vibrating tuning-fork is placed on the vertex it is in the normal person heard equally in both ears or apparently in the middle of the head. If, however, one ear be stopped up with the finger, a mass of cerumen, an over-tense tympanic membrane or ossicular chain, the tone is heard louder and exclusively in the obstructed ear. This is Weber's test, which is said to be " positive " when the fork is heard louder in the deafer ear—indicating obstruction; "negative" when louder in the better ear—indicating nerve- deafness in the worse. In pure obstructive deaf- ness the tuning-fork is heard by the patient (on his mastoid) after it is no longer heard by the normal observer. This is '■'■increased bone-con- duction " test. In pure nerve-deafness there is " diminished bone-conduction." In most instances increase of bone-conduction indicates presence of obstructive disease and L absence of nerve affection. Steinbrtigge attri- | bvites increased bone-conduction to heightened sensibility of the auditory nerve quite as much as to mechanical obstruction, and that its occurrence is not to be taken as diagnostic of the latter condition. The occurrence of hyper- acusis is undoubted when it applies to air- as well as bone-conducted sounds, but the coin- ; cidence of heightened excitability of the auditory j nerve along with an eclipsing affection of the | apparatus conducting external sounds must be ' rare, though obviously not impossible. The j " obstruction " origin of increased bone-conduc- tion is certainly the most intelligible and the most frequently applicable explanation. The normal tympanic apparatus is a better conductor of sounds—at all events for those of low or medium pitch—than the cranial bones, and wlien a vibrating tuning-fork of, say, 256 d. vs. (C' = 256 d. vs.) placed in contact with the mastoid region of the skull dies down till it j is no longer heard, it is still audible for some , seconds if held opposite the meatus. This was ] observed by Rinne, and is known as the normal j or ^'positive Rinne " (" Rinne + "). ] Any condition hampering the action of the j tympanic apparatus (inflammatory or other aifections) naturally diminishes the transmission of vibration conveyed in the usual way through i the air (" diminished air-conduction "), and in j addition it prevents the diffusion outwards of j vibration conveyed through the cranial bones. ^ If this is at all considerable, the tuning-fork, j after ceasing to be heard on the mastoid, is no longer heard when held opposite the meatus, and Rinne's test is said to give the negative result—"negative Rinne." In some cases the fork is actually heard longer through the bones than through the meatus, and this exaggeration of the negative may be called "reversed Rinne." In slight cases there may be merely a shortening of the time during which the fork is heard opposite the meatus after ceasing to be heard through the bones, and Rinne though positive is shortened, " shortened positive Rinne." -j Equilibrial or Static Functions of the . Vestibular Nerve. — Aural Vertigo. — It is ] obvious that every alteration of the position of the head must produce a disturbance in the fluid bathing the hair-cells. The viscosity of the fluid and the almost capillary narrowness of the canals must moderate this considerably, but nevertheless important afferent sensory impulses must be conveyed from these to , Deiters' nucleus and the cerebellum. | Ewald attributes to the posterior part of the labyrinth an influence on the " tonus " of muscle which is exercised througli the channels already j