BONE, DISEASES OF 431 words, it is iiitra-articular. Jnxta-epipliysiary osteomyelitis is therefore the prevailing lesion in young infants, and not epiphysitis, and the infection is much more likely to involve tlie adjacent joint than to spread to the diaphysis and cause necrosis, as in older children. In the. long bone of an adult, after maturity has been reached, the anatomical arrangement is not only very different, but the special pre- disposition of the marrow is lost. More favour- able conditions are reqiured in order that tiie cocci may flourish and produce disease. Acute osteomyelitis is very rare. There is greater liability to chronic forms of disease, either starting as such, or met with as relapses (jf an antecedent acute infection. In short ami flat bones, when these possess an ossifying junction, as in the os calcis, the lesion is similar to that in the long bones. I71 small bones generally the lesion tends to assinue the characters of a joint disease. In fla t bones, such as those of the skull, iliiun, periosteal sup- puration is the predominating feature, and suppuration may occur on one or on both aspects of the bone. In the skull the infection may spread to the membranes and to the venous sinuses. Necrosis may occur rapidly. The dead bone in the case of the skull is very slow in separating. In the skull, upper jaw, malar bone, and nose there is no new formation of bone to replace that which has been lost. Clinical Features.—In a general survey of these, it is to be l)orne in mind that there are two sets of symptoms : the local symptoms, i.e. those resulting frcjm the localisation of the infection in the bone or bones, and the general or constitutional symptoms, resulting from the diffusion of the staphylococci or their products throughout the system by means of the circula- tion. The latter may be further differentiated into (1) primary constitutimial symptoms, refer- able to their diffusion throughout the sj'stem prior to their localisation in the bones ; and (2) secondary constitutional symptoms, referable to the absorption of toxines, or to general re- infection from the local lesion in the bones, and succeeding the latter. Of these the second are always present in some degree ; while the first may be absent, or not recognised, or onl^y indicated in the previous history of the patient, t.c. in those cases in which the cocci have already effected a lodgment in the bone marrow, and are lying latent or dormant, and are only waiting the help of some accessory factor [e.g. Mow, twist, exposure to cold), in order to blossom out and produce their toxic effects, in these cases the local symptoms will play the leading part in the clinical features, and will only be followed later, or after an interval, by the secondary constitutional symptoms. Where the systemic infection is recent and virulent, then we have primary constitutional symptoms, such as delirium and prostration, before there are any evidences of localisation in the bones ; in fact the jjatient may actually succiunb before these latter manifest themselves at all, the death being due to general staphylococcal infection. On the other hand, the local symptoms may precede the general, and may lie the most prominent features of the disease ; these are the milder, less fatal forms. All intermediate forms Ijetween these extremes are met with. It is therefore very difficult to give a description of the clinical features which will embrace all the clinical variations. Local Symptoms.—The onset of the disease /.V AVERAGE TYPICAL CASES IS characterised by local symptoms—(1) pain, which may develop suddenly and violently, or may gradually in- crease from day to day; it is often assumetl to be traumatic or rheumatic in nature. The initial seat of the disease being so commonly at the joint end of a long bone, tliere is early and pronounced disturbance cjf function in bearing the weight on the limb or in movement, frequently suggesting a joint lesion, for whicli treatment is instituted and time lost. (2) Tenderness on pressure is of great value in recognising the osseous seat of the lesion and the part of the bone affected, also pain on attempted manipulation, as if the limb were fractured. Sooner or later there are constitiitional symp- toms. The earlier and more prominent the febrile symptoms, the niore acute and serious the disease. The temperature runs up with a rigor to 102°-104'' F., with general illness, head- ache, loss of appetite, vomiting, and it may be convulsions in young children, rapid pulse, and pains in the limbs other than the one specially affected. The temperature usually mounts from 10r-102° in the morning to 103°-104° in the evening, but it runs a very variable course. In the course of time there develop character- istic local signs, sicelling in the region of the ossifying junction, oedema of the soft parts, and dilatation of the surface plexus of veins. The ap2:)earance of the swelling is comparatively late in the majority of cases, because of the pre- dominance of osteomyelitis as the primary lesion. The date of its appearance depends further on the depth from the surface of the bone affected; it appears earlier in the tibia, ulna, or clavicle, than in the femur or humerus. The swelling may be less evident to the eye than to the fingers on careful palpation (by one suspecting the disease and looking for it). The maximum swelling or thickening of the bone, and the tenderness, correspond to the junction of the shaft with the epiphysis, stopping alnniptly at the level of the epiphysial disc, and tailing off gradually towards the diaphysis, or it may spread along the diaphysis. It is best appreciated by palpating the Ijone from the middle of its shaft towards its end. As time goes on, there may be diffuse redness of the