320 ATHETOSIS toms, or after symptoms of so slight a nature as to have been overlooked. The movements usually occur on one side only, but in children most of the cases are bilateral. The fingers are seen to be in con- tinual movement of a slow, monotonous, rhyth- mical character, now spread wide apart, now brought together, flexed, extended, hyper- extended. The wrist also may be flexed and extended, and the forearm pronated and supin- ated. Usually the movements are confined to the lumbricales and interossei, and it may be to the long extensor of the fingers. The flexion of the fingers is usually at the metacarpo-phalan- geal joints, the second and third phalanges remaining extended. In children hyper-exten- sion may be so marked that subluxation of the second and third phalanges may occur. The toes are usually affected to a less degree than the fingers. In rare cases the face is also affected. The voluntary movements of the face may be ex- aggerated on the affected side. Tremor of the face and tongue have been noted, probably in some instances alcoholic in origin. In some cases the movements continue during sleep, in others they do not. Associated Phenomena. — As a rule the patients complain of no pain or fatigue. There may be associated rigidity {e.g. of the arm or of the calf) of the affected side. The affected muscles may be somewhat wasted; or they may be of normal size; or they may be hypertrophied, even greatly hyper- trophied, from the constant movement. The movements never occur in limbs completely paralysed. A degree of voluntary power is always present. Voluntary efforts, as a rule, increase the spasm. Thus Hammond narrates of his first case, " When told to close his hand, he held it out at arm's length, clasped the wrist with the other hand, and then exerting all his power, succeeded, after at least half a minute, in'flexing the fingers, but instantaneously they opened again and resumed their movements." Sensation is often impaired. In cases follow- ing hemiplegia there usually is, or has been, associated hemianfesthesia. In children the sensory functions are usually normal. The mental condition varies greatly. Some degree of mental impairment is very common in young children, amounting even to idiocy. Prognosis.—The prognosis is unfavourable. In many cases the movements continue without alteration for years. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis depends on the character of the movements, and can seldom present any difficulty. Athetosis has to be dis- tinguished from other forms of post-hemiplegic movement, and from the movements of chorea, disseminated sclerosis, and paralysis agitans. A hysterical athetosis has been described. The various post-hemiplegic movements are evidently closely related, and the different groups usually described—simple tremor of the affected muscles, quick incoordinate chorea-like movement, and athetosis with and without associated rigidity—caimot be sharply defined. Morbid Anatomy ami Pathology.—Athetosis is a symptom of disturbance of function, rather than of destruction, of part of the motor tract, and the result of post-mortem examinations, of which a considerable number have now been recorded, has been to show that in the majority of cases the lesion is situated in the neighbour- hood of the basal ganglia, and especially in the optic thalamus and lenticular nucleus,—a re- sult quite in accordance with what had been considered probable from clinical and experi- mental evidence. As regards the nature of the lesion, cases occurring in adults are more often the result of softening {e.g. embolic) than of hsemorrhage, and in such cases slight damage to the cerebral structure is probably more extensive than the actual lesion. Thus a lesion apparently con- fined to the optic thalamus might interfere with the function of the adjacent internal capsule. Another explanation of cases where the lesion is outside the actual motor tract is that the cerebral cortex may be interfered with indirectly by disturbance of function. In a certain number of cases the lesion may actually be in the cortex, as in an instance given by Demange where hemiplegia had existed for thirty-three years. An extensive cortical lesion was found involving all the motor area behind the fissure of Rolando. The basal ganglia and internal capsule were healthy. Clinical evidence to the same effect is supplied by a case of Beevor's, in which, immediately after an injury to the head, athetotic movements appeared in the right side of the face and right thumb, later in the fingers, and later still in the lower limb. In this case the nature of the injury and the march of the symptoms seem to indicate a cortical lesion. In children the lesions are those of infantile cerebral paralysis. Cortical sclerosis and poren- cephalus are the most important conditions found post-mortem. In many cases the damage is very extensive, and the basal ganglia are involved. These conditions may be the result of a primary vascular lesion. Striimpell's theory of a primary polio-encephalitis has not been very generally accepted. Treatment. — Treatment is very unsatis- factory. Gowers has seen improvement result from galvanism, but in other cases galvanism has been used for months without effect. Nerve sedatives, such as the bromides, and nerve tonics, such as arsenic, phosphorus, cannabis indica, may be tried. Nerve-stretching has been reported as giving a favourable result. Athrepsia. — Infantile atrophy, with