285 ASCITES Ducts, Diseased of ; Liver {Liver Parasites); Nose, Foreign Bodies (Parasites) ; Sprue. Ascites. Definition ...... 285 Causation in General .... 285 Causation in Children .... 286 Characters op Ascitic Fluid . . 286 General Effects of Ascites . . 287 Physical Signs ..... 287 Distinction from other Conditions . 288 Ebcognition of the Cause . . . 28'J Treatment ...... 290 See also Drummond - Morison Operation ; Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium (Spn- ptomatology); Gastro-Intestinal Disorders op Infancy ; Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Hijdronej^hrosis); Labour, Faults in the Passenger {Fcetal Ascites); Liver, Diseases op ; Liver {Perihepatitis, Portal Thromhosis); Lym- phatic System {Chylous Ascites); Mediastinum ; Mesenteric Glands ; Ovaries, Diseases op : Peritoneum {Peritonitis, Acute, Tubercular); Pregnancy, Diagnosis ; Pregnancy, Intra- uterine Diseases {Fcttal Ascites). Definition. — The word ascites does not de- note any pathological process or disease. It is a convenient clinical term, which is applied to an effusion of fluid into the peritoneal cavity. The eiiusion may be due to obstruction of vessels or lymphatics, or it may be of inflam- matory origin. The fluid may be serous, sero- fibrinous, luemorrhagic, chylous, or milky, but collections of pus and extravasations of blood, bile, and urine are excluded from the conmion usage of the term. Causation of Ascites in General.—Fluid may make its appearance in the peritoneal cavity, either (A) as the result of some local vascular affection, or (B) as a part of some general disorder. (A) Ascites due to local disease.—(a) The most common cause of ascites is obstruction of the portal circulation. In this condition the blood- pressure in the peritoneal capillaries is raised and the transudation from them increases vip to a point with which the absorption-power of the lympiiatics can no longer cope. This obstruction may be situated (1) within the liver, or (2) in the trunk of the vein before it enters the liver. (1) Within the liver the predominant cause is the compression exerted upon the small portal vessels by the contracting fibrous tissue of a multilobular (hob-nailed) cirrhosis. In the unilobular form of cirrhosis, ascites is un- common, and, if present, is always small in amount. The rare infiltrating form of primary carcinoma of the liver may similarly produce ascites. Syphilis is a common cause, usually through the compression of larger portal branches by the cicatricial tissue, which is associated with caseating gummata. In such a case syphilis has usually been acquired. Less commonly the same changes result from the inherited disease. Inherited syphilis may also be a cause of ascites in young children by the development of a general interstitial hepatitis, but in such cases life is seldom prolonged. Any tumour, carcinoma, sarcoma, gumma, or hydatid may be so situated towards the under surface of the liver as to impinge upon the entering portal vein or one of its large branches. In rare instances, ascites has also been known to occur from the development of a tumour in such a position as to compress one or more of the hepatic veins at their junction with the inferior vena cava. (2) Outside the liver the portal vein may be compressed by enlarged lymphatic glands in the portal fissure. This enlargement is usually due to a secondary carcinoma, and very rarely to any other cause, such as tubercle or lymph- adenoma. A similar result may be produced by carcinoma invading the gastrohepatic omentum, by sarcoma, by carcinoma of the pancreas or duodenum, by a pancreatic cyst, or by an aneurysm in this region. Ascites may, in rare instances, ensue from the local perihepatitis which may be set up on the under surface of the liver by the presence of a new growth, gumma, or hydatid. More commonly it arises from the general perihepatitis which results from syphilis or is associated with chronic interstitial nephritis. In many such cases, however, the ascites is wholly, or in part, attributable to a coincident chronic peritonitis. Thrombosis of the portal vein is a further cause, but it usually occurs only in an advanced stage of cirrhosis or perihepatitis. (b) Acute peritonitis from any cause is often attended with the eftusion of fluid. This is commonly, however, small in amount, save when it is purulent in character, or when it is increased by the presence of bile, urine, or stomach-contents in the cases of ru])ture of gall-bladder, urinary bladder, or stomach re- spectively. An insignificant amount of fluid may also be thrown out in late stages of acute intestinal obstruction. On the other hand a considerable ascites is a common result of tuberculous or carcinomatous infection of the peritoneum. In the carcinomatous form the primary growth is more conmionly situated in ovary or stomach than elsewhere. There is a marked tendency to peritoneal infection from a papilliferous tumour of the ovary. Sarcomatous infection of the peritoneum as a cause of ascites is much less common. A primary sarcoma may arise at any spot in the peritoneal or retro- peritoneal tissue, and in either case it may give rise to numerous scattered nodides over the whole peritoneal surface. A similar secondary infection may occur wlien the primary growth is elsewhere, more particularly when it is seated