388 BLADDER, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF contrary to what happens in the preceding, the bladder - wall becomes first involved, and the urine secondarily. The micro-organisms found in the urine ma}' be divided into two classes, according as they do or do not possess the power of decomposing urea, the former being the most injurious. The bacillus coli is the one most frequently present in the urine in cases of bacteriiiria, and also in suppura- tive cystitis when the fluid is acid, its power of decomposing urea—if it possesses it—being very slight, and not exercised to any extent while in the bladder. The urobacillus lique- faciens septicus (the proteus of Hauser) is the organism usually found when the urine is ammoniacal; it quickly decomposes urea, and when present in acid urine, the reaction becomes alkaline and the odour ammoniacal within a few hours. The staphylococcus pyogenes and the streptococcus pyogenes are present in a large proportion of cases, rarely by themselves, almost always associated with one or both of the pre- ceding varieties ; the former readily decomposes ui'ea, while the latter does not possess this property (MouUin). In addition to the ordinary pyogenic micro-organisms, certain specific organ- isms are sometimes found to be present, usually in association with them, less frequently acting by themselves, e.g. the gonococcus in gonorrhceal cystitis, the typhoid bacillus in the cystitis which occasionally occurs in the course of typhoid fever, and the tubercle bacillus in cases of tubercular cystitis. Acute Cystitis Paihologij.—In acute cases there is intense congestion of the vesical mucous membrane, most marked about the trigone and neck of the bladder. Examined with the cystoscope in the early stage, the bladder-wall appears of a bright red colour, the injected vessels being plainly visible as branching lines, and in places small patches of extravasated blood can be dis- tinguished. As the inflammation advances the colour changes to a dark red or purple, the outlines of the vessels becoming lost, and the mucous membrane assuming a swollen velvety appearance. In severe cases the dilated vessels give way, and profuse hgematuria may occur, the condition being then sometimes described as " haemorrhagic or superficial ulcerations," which may be coated over with muco-pus or deposits of phosphates; sometimes it is rough and lined with a layer of villous-like granulations, which readily bleed. Occasionally it presents a "no- dular" appearance, the lymphatic foci, which are normally present in the mucous membrane, becoming enlarged, and developing into pro- minent and vascular nodules. In cases of long standing, and when the cystitis is secondary to some cause of obstruction, e.g. stricture, the bladder often becomes contracted and its muscular coat hypertrophied, thick bands stand- ing out prominently beneath the mucous lining, and interlacing with one another in different directions. Irregular dilatation, or " saccula- tion," is often associated with this condition, so that pouches and depressions are produced between the fasciculi, in which urine lodges and often decomposes, or calculi may form and sometimes become encysted. As the result of thinning and ulceration of the walls of these pouches, perforation may occur, followed by extravasation of urine, a complication which is usually fatal. In some cases the bladder may be dilated, and its walls generally are much thinned; this condition, the reverse of that just described, is usually found associated with pros- tatic hypertrophy, passive distension of the viscus taking place as the result of long-con- tinued retention of urine. The SYMPTOMS are of a similar nature to those met with in acute cystitis, though much less severe, the most prominent being an irritable condition of the bladder, with an altered state of the urine. Micturition is increased in frequency, and attended by more or less pain. The urine soon becomes purulent and alkaline in reaction, giving off in severe cases an offensive ammoniacal odour. It is turbid when passed, and deposits a quantity of viscid, ropy mucus, which contains pus, blood, and epithelial cells, with numerous micro-organisms and crystals of triple phosphate and phosphate of lime. In neglected cases, as the disease progresses, there is a gradual loss of flesh and strength; the patient becomes sallow and emaciated, digestion becoming impaired, with a distaste for food. A low form of delirium sets in at night, and symptoms of urtemia frequently supervene, for the inflammation tends to spread upwards along the ureters to the pelves of the kidneys ; the result is that the patient, becoming worn out by the pain and frequent calls to pass water by night as well as by day, sooner or later succumbs to septic poisoning or to some secondary renal complication. Diagnosis.—Cystitis may be simulated by certain functional disorders of the bladder of nervous origin, which are often attended by pain (cystalgia) and increased frequency in micturition, the latter condition being some- times described as " irritable bladder." They may, however, be distinguished by the fact that the urine is healthy and free from pus, and there is no evideiace of the existence of any of the causes which usually give rise to cystitis. The patient is often of a nervous temperament, or some lesion will be found in the neighbouring parts, e.g. uterine disease, hsemorrhoids, fissure of the anus, phimosis, a contracted urethral meatus, etc., the bladder symptoms under these circumstances being due to reflex irritation. In other cases a similar condition may be due to the direct irritation of urine containing sugar, or an excess either of uric acid or phosphates, the