BRAIN, PHYSIOLOGY OF 464 single, sometimes double, in the falx cerebelli, joins the jjosterior spinal veins and ends in the lateral sinus. Special mention must be made of the connec- tions of the vessels in the dura mater with veins entering it either from the cranial bones or from structures outside the skull, these vessels being of importance as conveying infective processes from without and leading to sinus thrombosis. The ophthalmic veiwt from the eye and orbit have been already mentioned as entering the cavernous sinus through the sphenoidal fissure. The mastoid emissary vein passes from the lateral sinus through the mastoid foramen. The parietal emissary vein connects the superior longitudinal sinus with the veins of the scalp. There are others of less importance which do not require mention. Lymphatic Circulation of the Brain.—The researches of Obersteiner, His, Be van Lewis, Retzius, Leonard Hill, and others have elucidated the lymphatic paths and the conditions of the secretion of lymph and of its absorption. In the grey matter of the cortex each nerve lies in a small sac, lined with endothelium—the peri- cellular lymph-sac. This is continuous with a perivascular lymph-channel, which surrounds the vessels (arteries, veii^s, and capillaries) within the grey matter. These channels open into the reticulated subarachnoid space, which, in the fissure of Sylvius and at the base of the brain, form larger spaces, termed lymph-cisterns, which MOTOR CENTRE WORD HEARING CENTRE Fig. 4.—Outer surface of left hemisphere indicating the '' motor " and " sensory " areas, may under certain pathological conditions be- come over distended with fluid, but which in the normal brain are, according to Hill, little more than potential spaces, capable of containing more fluid if the amoimt of blood in the cranial cavity is diminished. In addition to this canal- icular system, Bevan Lewis thinks that the neuroglia cells of Deiters serve as absorbents of lymph. He bases his opinion on the fact that the protoplasm of these cells is of a semi-fluid nature, and that the cells send one process to join the adventitial sheath of the vessels. He supposes that the cells absorb fluid from the brain-substance and deliver it by their long process to the perivascular lymphatics. These cells he terms the lymph connective system. The cerebro-spinal fluid within the ventricles is mainly secreted by their choroid plexuses. Under ordinary circumstances the fluid passes from the ventricles of the cerebrum through the aqueduct of Sylvius to the fourth ventricle. From this the fluid escapes through the foi'amen of Majendie in the roof of the ventricle into the subarachnoid space. From the subarachnoid space the exit for the cerebro-spinal fluid is by way of the lymphatics of the nerve-roots and those surrounding the larger blood-vessels of the brain and cord. Further points of clinical importance regarding the cerebro-spinal fluid will be found under the section " Nose, Dis- eases of." Functions of the Cerebral Cortex. — The clinical researches of Hughlings Jackson, fol- lowed by the experiments of Fritsch and Hitzig, Ferrier, Horsley, Beevor, and others, have shown that there are certain areas in the cortex, stimu- lation of which produces movements on the opposite side of the body, and removal of which is followed by paralysis of the same movements. These areas are WORD SEEINC3 located on both CENTRE sidesof the fissure of Rolando, mainly in the as- cending parietal and frontal con- volutions and their termina- tions in the median aspect of the hemisphere, viz. the para- central lobe; also to some extent in the superior parietal, and in the postei'iorends of the first, second, and third frontal convolu t i 0 n s. These areas, termed " motor areas," have been marked out with great precision and minute- ness by Horsley and Beevor, and have been found by the former to correspond closely with those indicated by disease in man. Their position is shown in the accompanying diagram. It may be stated generally that the centres for the leg are in the upper part of the motor area,