250 APPENDICITIS due to twists or bands ; here, however, tempera- ture is a late feature of the case. I have seen cases of localised gangrene of ciecum from can- cerous disease blockiiig the mesenteric vessels simulate appendicitis closely, and cancer of caecum has been mistaken for the chronic form of appendicitis. In some cases where an abscess has followed perforation, the diagnosis is im- possible without exploratory incision. As has been before said, appendicitis may be the cause of perinephritic abscess, empyema, psoas abscess, etc. Osier mentions that mucous colitis with enteralgia in nervous women is sometimes mis- taken for appendicitis. He also says that there is in America a well-marked " appendicular hypo- chondriasis" and such has been my experience. In the female, pelvic injlammation may be mistaken for appendicitis and vice versa. In some cases the appendix is involved with the tubes. When the inflamed appendix hangs over the brim of the pelvis it may be mistaken for pyosalpinx, pelvic heematocele, or again pyosal- pinx may be mistaken for appendicitis-. In cases of pelvic inflammation, rigidity of the abdominal muscles is always absent. Duodenal ulcer has been mistaken for appendi- citis, especially when it has perforated. In such cases there may have been previous passages of blood per anum, or blood may have been vomited. It is always well to examine the i-egion of the duodenum in cases where at operation the appendix is apparently healthy. Perforating ulcer of the stomach may simulate appendicitis. Prognosis.—No doubt a great many cases of simple appendicitis recover, and every practi- tioner has seen cases where attacks have oc- curred several times. Hawkins states that in 154 cases treated at St. Thomas' Hospital in which there was no suppuration, only one died ; Morris places the death-rate in unoperated cases at 25 per cent. It is very difficult to get any satisfactory statistics as to the mortality of cases which have not been operated upon. From the appearance of the appendix in ordinary post- mortems, quite a large proportion show traces of former inflammation; many cases are cured spontaneously by the separation of the appendix and its discharge with the surrounding abscess into some neighbouring hollow organ, most commonly the csecum or colon. I have seen quite a number of such cases. The prognosis after operation in the interval is always good. Richardson of Boston reports 151 cases without a death. W. T. Bull's statistics give 412 cases with a death-rate of 1-8 per cent. In cases operated on during the acute stage, the prognosis depends on the period at which the operation takes place, the character of the disease, and the skill of the operator. Probably the mortality after opera- tion in all acute cases admitted into hospital is about 15-20 per cent. The prognosis in cases after operation is always good when the inflam- mation is localised, and it is always an encourag- ing symptom if after operation the bowels move freely. Surgeons who see only the most severe cases are very apt to have false ideas of the great mortality in cases of appendicitis which are not operated on. Treatment.—This might be divided into Ex- pectant awl Operative. Expectant: In ordinary cases the patient should be kept in bed on milk diet and the course of events watched—medicine will do but little for him, though such drugs as calomel, salines, opium, etc., are advocated as curative remedies by enthusiastic therapeutists. To relieve the pain, applications of heat by means of fomentations, or cold by means of ice- bag, are most acceptable to the patient—per- sonally, I prefer the ice-bag; not only does it relieve the pain, but, should operation be after- wards undertaken, there is less congestion of the superficial parts and the skin remains intact; nothing is so disagreeable as operating on a patient whose abdomen is raw from the frequent application of counter-irritants, or blistered from continuous applications of too great heat. In such cases it is impossible to cleanse the field of operation, and the risk of sepsis is much increased. Purgatives should be avoided, as in the early stages they may do considerable harm, especially if there be a perforation with a commencing localised adhesive inflammation. The caecum, as was stated in the beginning of this article, is nearly always empty and never loaded with faeces, so emptying it would be of no service. If the pain be very severe, small doses of opium may be given ; but opium is a dangerous friend in appendicitis, and is very apt to conceal serious symptoms and lull the suspicions of the attend- ing physician. If at the end of forty-eight hours the case does not improve, that is, should the vomiting not cease, the temperature con- tinue to rise and the pulse-rate be over 120, with increasing rigidity of the muscles and anxious expression of face, then the question of operation should be seriously entertained. It is often a difficult matter to know when to operate—some surgeons, as Morris of New York and Murphy of Chicago, say that whenever a case is recognised as one of appendicitis, operate. But all surgeons are not prepared to follow this advice; it is certainly a solution of the problem, but it is not a necessary one in all cases. Should the symptoms not ameliorate, the pulse remain rapid, local tenderness and mus- cular rigidity increase, or should a distinct tumour develop and the genei'al appearance of the patient be alarming, then operate—in such cases one is very likely to find pus. Immediate operation is indicated if there is a rapid pulse and respirations with a normal temperature. Gay of Boston says one should not operate