293 ASEPTIC TREATMENT OF WOUNDS proportion of chemical used in ordinary surgical work is sufficient. Carbolic acid is also efficient, but considerable quantities of it are required— 1 to 5 parts in 100. Water is exceedingly easy to disinfect, Ijccause it contains no substance to combine with the chemical and render it inert. (c) Contact infection.—7'Ae hands.—Until re- cently a great deal of wound infection mxist have been caused by the fingers of the sui'geon or of his assistants. Even with our present improved methods the disinfection of the hands is by no means easy. Something depends upon the quality of the skin. That which is smooth and thin is easier to sterilise than that which is rough and fissured. The bacteria of the skin reside in the ducts of the sweat-glands, in the sebaceous glands, and in the mouths of the liair follicles. The sebace- ous material which all parts of tlie human skin contain, is one of the chief impediments to the action of disinfectants. The skin of the hands is less greasy than that of the scalp, back, or trunk, but, nevertheless, its disinfection requires considerable skill and experience. The chinks and crannies about the nails are an additional danger. Various bacteria have been grown from the skin of the hands. Staphy- lococcus [albus and aureus, Streptococcus pyo- genes, Bacillus pyocyaneus, the colon bacillus, and many others have been found. Leedham- Green grew many kinds of bacteria fi'om hands which had been scrubbed and washed for fifteen minutes in hot water and soap. The hands of those who touch septic wounds, or who perform post-mortem examinations, may carry the germs of virulent and deadly diseases. Disinfection—Of hands of surgeon arid, his assistants.—The hands are prepared for disinfec- tion by divesting them of rings. This injunc- tion is needless for the modern school of aseptic surgeons who contemn such trivialities. It is safest to trim the nails as short as possible. Those who object to this may try to cleanse the nails with 10 per cent iodoform gauze and 5 per cent carbolic lotion (Frantz Boll). The gauze has to be pushed along beneath the edge of the nail. Assuming that the nails have been trimmed as close as possible, the next step in the preparation of the hands for disinfection is tlie removal of all visible dirt and all greasy material by the energetic use of a sterilised nail-brush and hot water and soap. We have had successful results with all kinds of soap, but the experiments of Koch and of Boll show that potash soap (soft soap) is rather more efficacious than hard soap. Ether and turpentine have also been used at this stage for the more complete removal of fat. Turpentine is the best, because it possesses slight germicidal properties. Their use, however, tends to rouglien the skin, and solutions of chemicals in spirit render them unnecessary. After the hands have been cleansed of dirt and grease, various chemicals are used as dis- infectants. The thoroughness with which the disinfectant is used is the most important point. Many are unable to endure the strong mixtures of carbolic acid and perchloride of mercury which some surgeons find efficacious (Watson Cheyne). It is now generally believed that alcoholic ap>2)li- cations liave the most penetrating properties and give the best results (Poten). The hands may be soaked for one minute in 80 per cent alcohol, and then for one minute in 2 per cent sublimate lotion (Furbringer). I myself have obtained the best results with solutions of biniodide of mercuiy in methylated spirit. This is made in the following manner :—- P^irst, a strong solution (1 in 10) of mercuric iodide is prepared. This serves also for making lotions. Take of Mercuric iodide, 100 grms. or 960 grs. Iodide of sodium or potassium, 100 grms. or 960 grs. Distilled water, 1000 c.c. or 20 fl. oz. The iodide of potassium or sodium is dissolved in the distilled water and the mercuric iodide is added. If the latter is impure and contains mercurous iodide a green precipitate results. Otherwise a perfectly clear solution is obtained. The spiritous solution is made as follows (Parsons) :— Take of 1 in 10 solution of biniodide, 10 c.c. or 192 minims. Methylated or rectified spirit, 375 c.c. or 15 fi. oz. Distilled water to make final product, 500 c.c. or 20 fl. oz. The percentage of water is added because Koch's experiments showed that solutions of chemicals in absolute alcohol are inert. Methy- lated spirit is used because it is cheap. The hands and forearms are soaked in tliis 1 in 500 solution of biniodide of mei'cury for not less than two minutes by the clock. Three of my house-surgeons disinfected their hands by this method thirty-eight times out of thirty- nine. It is now unusual to have a septic result when the skin is tested before the operation. Before and during operations the disinfected hands are frequently rinsed in lotion of biniodide of mercury, 1 in 2000. A small, clean, non-suppurating cut upon the hands may be covered with a small collodion dressing. It is unjustifiable for a surgeon to operate with any kind of suppurating sore upon the hands or fingers. I have known the most painful results follow such a proceeding. Disinfection of the skin of the 2mtient.—^The difficulty of disinfecting the patient's skin depends mainlj- upon the size and depth of the sebaceous and sweat glands. The skin of the neck, limbs, and abdomen can be disinfected with ease; whilst that of the back, groin,