466 BRAIN, PHYSIOLOGY OF of tactile sensibility; but a certain loss of muscular sense in the limb supplied by the removed area has been found by Horsley, though not apparently by others. Embolic destruction TO LATERAL COLUMNS NUCLEUS A f CUNEATU5-f ) f NUCLEUS GRACIU5 Fia. 6.—Scheme showing the distribution of the tiUet. of the motor area does not seem to cause any sensoi-y defect. The sensory path to the cortex passes through the hinder third of the posterior limb of the internal capsule, and radiates out- ward from there towards the various cortical areas. In particular the central optic path lies in the lowest part of the optic radiation of Gratiolet. Within the pons and cerebral pedun- cles the sensory path is less easy to trace, but it appears to lie in the tegment somewhat internal and posterior to the gelatinous substance of Rolando, where that exists. The centripetal path for muscular sense im- pressions is in all probability constituted by the fillet or lemniscus. This structure arises in the nuclei of the two divisions of the posterior columns of the cord, and passes upwards along the opposite side of the raphe of the medulla, receiving, as it goes, fibres from the sensory nuclei of the fifth, eighth, ninth, and tenth nerves. The fibres of the fillet terminate in the anterior and posterior corpora quadrigemina, in the optic thalamus, and to some extent in the motor cortex. Word-seeing Centre.—It is found that when the angular and supra-marginal gyri are de- stroyed on the left side the power of perceiving : words as words is lost. Although vision is \ preserved intact, words read soon have no more meaning than those of an unknown foreign lan- guage. Such a loss of perception is termed word- l' blindness. It would appear that in the above- named gyri the visual impressions of letters and words undergo a higher elaboration and become \ associated with definite sounds and meanings. Word-hearing Centre.—A similar centre for the elaboration of heard soimds into words is ) found in the posterior part of the first temporal I convolutions. Destruction of this area on the i left side, while aff'ecting hearing only temporarily \ on the opposite side, causes loss of understanding ; of spoken speech (word-deafness). The question i of word-seeing and word-hearing are more fully \ considered in the article " Aphasia." \ The anterior part of the frontal lobe is gener- < Fio. 7.—Diagram of the constituents of the inferior peduncle of the cerebellum, indicating the connection of those derived from the spinal cord with the middle or vermiform lobe of the cerebellum, and the connection of the inferior olive with the nucleus dentatus. ally regarded as being associated with the higher intellectual faculties. The functions of the caudate and lenticular nucleus and optic thalamus are not yet known. Lesions in their substance do not produce charac- teristic symptoms unless they press on such ad-