BONE, DISEASES OF 439 attack, the original scar in the region of the junction may also come to lie higher up the shaft. The thickened bone may be painful on pressure at one special point; pains at night may be the subject of special complaint. Where there is a circumscribed abscess, it is usually in the interior of the bone at one end of the diajjhysis, and the mechdlary cavity is shut off by new bone. The tibia was affected in 81 out of 113 cases; the lower end of femur and upper end of humerus come next in frequency. The wall of the abscess may be rarefied ; more often it is sclerosed like ivory. It may or may not contain a sequestrum. Once an abscess is encapsulated it has little tendency to spread or to erupt externally. An abscess supposed to have been in existence for fifty years has been found to contain living staphylococci. Although living, they have lost their virulence in relation to susceptible animals. 77u' symptoms of abscess are pain which is neuralgic, spontaneous, deep-seated with noc- turnal exacerbations. It may be periodic, remittent, and it may radiate throughout the limb. The pain is influenced by congestion of the vessels, because it is influenced by elevation of the limb, and it is relieved by incision of the periosteum, or by trephining the l)one, even if no pus is found. Limited tender- ness on percussion is characteristic. Swelling or increase in the girth of the bone is a frequent accompaniment. As there may be occasional Ijyrexia, it is desirable to keep a temperature chart. Ordinary suppuration ivith or ivithout necrosis resembles ordinary suppurative osteomyelitis, only it is chronic, or subacute in its onset and progress, and if there be a sequestrum it is liuried or walled in and difficult to discover and remove, because it is of old standing and may have lain dormant for years. These chi-onic or relapsing foi-ms of osteomy- elitis may be attended with changes in the adja- cent joint, which are liable to be mistaken for tubercle. This is especially true of chronic lesions in the bones in the vicinity of the knee- joint. The author has seen the thigh of an adult amputated for what was supposed to be tuberculous disease of the knee of many years' duration ; on section of the lower end of the femur an abscess was found with a contained sequestrum, both dating back to an attack of acute suppurative osteomyelitis which occurred in youth. Such a mistake is to be avoided by more careful search into the previous histoiy of the patient, and valuable information may be ol)tainod from successful X-ray photographs. The prognosis should be guarded, because one never knows which relapse will l>e the last, as in the corresponding lesion of the appendix. If rarely dangerous, they are often very persistent in spite of treatment, and may lay the patient up every now and again, and seriovisly interfere with his occupation. This is especially true of the relapsing disease in the region of the trigone of the femur. The treatment of chronic, persistent, and of relapsing osteomyelitis varies with the type of the disease. Painless hyperostosis may be left alone. Where pain is the dominant feature, one may afford relief by the repeated application of blis- ters or by incision of the periosteum, or, in more persistent cases, by chiselling into or trephining the bone. Where an abscess is suspected in the interior of the bone, the latter must be exposed by suitable incision and elevation of the peri- osteum ; the bone is then explored by means of a drill or trephine. It may be very difficult to discover the abscess, because,it may be relatively very small, and because the bone surrounding it is very dense from sclerosis. Having discovered and evacuated the abscess, its cavity is then treated on the same lines as have been suggested for dealing with the cavity in the operation of sequestrectomy. Should no abscess be discovered, the extensive opening up of the bone required in searching for it will usually result in removing the symptoms. 5. 0.STEOMYELITIS WHICH IS CHRONIC FROM THE OUTSET.—The connection of the different mem- bers of this group with pyogenic infection has only been recognised within recent years. They were formerly confused with syphilis and tubercle, and without bacteriological examina- tion it is still very difficult to differentiate between them. They may be regarded as including the " osteite a forme nevralgique" described by Gosselin. In the form of hyperostosis and sclerosis, of ordinary suppurative osteomyelitis, with or without necrosis, and of chronic abscess of bone, they correspond in every respect to the chronic forms of osteomyelitis which have just been described as the result of an antecedent acute attack. There is one form, however, which is peculiar to this group, viz. necrosis without suppuration; it therefore requires separate description. Necrosis without Suppuration—" Quiet JVecro- sis."—It is a rare disease described by Paget and Morrant Baker, and would ajjpear to be associated with an attenuated form of staphylo- coccus infection acting over a period of years on the resisting tissues of the bone of an adult. It affects both sexes equally, and may be met with up to the age of fifty or sixty. There may be no discoverable cause of the lesion, or, on going into the history, it may be found to date back to some infective disease, such as typhoid, yeai's before. Its origin from staphylococcus infection has been demonstrated by Tavel. The disease is probably not so rare as operative experience and museum specimens would indi- cate, for it is probable that many cases, diagnosed as " chronic inflammation with hypertrophy of