ANAESTHETICS—CHLOROFORM 147 talking, the chlorolonii slioukl be dropped on more quickly, a drop every second or even oftener, and the wet patch increased by letting the drops fall regularly all around its edges as well as in its centre. One can exactly gauge the strength of the vapour by the size of the patch, and so can easily preserve the same concentration, or increase or diminish it at will. Stage of Excitement.—The patient will now make the movements or noises referred to, and these will continue for two or three minutes, becoming gradually more marked and then lessening as the stage of excitement passes into the next stage. Once in a hundred cases or so, a patient, and generally it is a female, may show no signs of excitement during the first stage. Many, on the other hand, especially men, show a Ijoisterous excitement, attempt to sit up on the table, to wrestle, fight, and so on—speaking, entreating, remonstrating, threatening, singing, praying, even cursing, the while ; and siich individuals are always, the writer believes, habitual alco- holics. They should be restrained, one assistant leaning over the knees, another holding a wrist in each hand, while the chloroformist keeps the head down and prevents the patient sitting np, by the pressure of his left hand upon the brow. When single-handed, the an;esthetist can best control a struggling patient by leaning with his left chest over the knees, grasping both wrists in his left hand, and continuing the adminis- tration and management of the head with his right. These alcoholics often restrain their breathing during their struggles imtil they become cyanosed ; and in this event the chloro- form should be discontinued until they have drawn a deep breath or two, re-aerated their lilood, and relieved the venous congestion of the right heart. Despite what has been stated, no harm comes of firm restraint, avoiding of course the appearance or reality of roughness; on the contrary, the delirium is usually less if the restraint be firm and early applied. After a few deep breaths, the chloroform is resumed, the struggles relax, and such persons pass suddenly into deep insensibility^ from which, however, they often emerge more easily and quickly than others do. Vomiting and Retching.—In the first stage vomiting is unusual, save where the stomach is full and the patient has not been duly prepared. Should it occur, it entails much delay, but there is no help for it, the patient must be allowed, even encouraged, to vomit, and till this has been well accomplished the chloroform must be discontinued. It is the chloroformist's duty to see to it lieforehand that he is provided with a small basin for such a mishap, and he ought also, by turning the face to one side and shielding it with a towel, to prevent any of the vomited matters being thrown, coughed, or sprayed on to the territory where the operation is l)eing carried out. It now and then hapjjens that, without actual vomiting, strong and persistent retching takes place in this stage in persons who have not V)een well prepared, or even in those who have ; and it is the general practice to deal with such a condition by giving the anaesthetic in increased strength — to force them past the stage of vomiting, as it were—and the practice seems to answer well. Compression of the phrenic nerves, which has also been i-ecom- inended for this, is not so good, if it lie of any use at all. In goitrous patients, where there is always a certain shortness of lireath from tracheal stenosis, Edmund Rose has recommended, and the advice is equally good where any respira- tory abnormality is present, that the patient be allowed, without suggestion, to assume any attitude he finds Ijest to be antcsthetised in. He is sure instinctively to select that in which his respiration is least impeded; and in this, the safest posture, he should be left undisturbed during the whole time of the administration. Stage of Profound ANiESTHESiA.—In this stage, which now sets in, the limbs become relaxed by the vohuitary muscular contractility becoming abolished, and immediately thereafter follows relaxation of the muscles of the tongue, throat, and, if the anaesthesia be pushed too far, eventually of the muscles supplied by the centres of respiration. The eyeballs turn somewhat upwards beneath the upper eyelids, the iris being in a state of relaxation, so that the pupil is of medium size. In imminent death from an overdose of the anfesthetic the pupil becomes widely dilated, and when death really has irretrievably set in, it again returns to the state of medium dilatation. Sensation next disappears successively in the skin, mucous meml)ranes and cornea, persisting longest in this last, and in the parts about the rectiuTi and bladder; so that the anaesthesia has to lie pushed further in operations on the ej'eball, liladder, and rectum, than in those on the extremities. The pulse and respiration, generally quickened during the first stage, become again slower during that of profoinid anaesthesia. During the induction of this stage, the administrator has to be careful not to give too much of the anfesthetic ; and it is usual for him to test the depth of the insensibility by pinching the skin, or best of all, liy touching the cornea with his finger-tip, when, if no reflex contraction is observed in the oi'bicularis palpebrarum, the antesthesia is sufficient for any purpose, and should not be pushed further. Points in Special Cases.—Certain cautions should be observed in special cases. In minor operations, and operations on the