483 BRAIN, AFFECTIONS OF BLOOD-VESSELS I- A determining condition of such thrombosis is no doubt the weakening of the blood-stream, the loss of fluid from the blood, and, in con- sequence of those two conditions, liability for clotting to occur. After acute illness, such as pneumonia, pleurisy, etc., when the more severe symptoms have suTjsided, such a condition may also occiu-, and it may be generally stated that the exhaustion and prostration of severe, long- continued, and deltilitating illness are the con- ditions which favour the occurrence of the thrombosis which we are considering. Morbid Anatomy.—Sometimes the affection is only of one sinus, the longitudinal. Sometimes, however, others are involved, and veins also may be affected. In fatal cases this has usually occurred. Occasionally only a siirface vein seems to be affected, giving rise to focal symptoms, namely, unilateral convulsions and weakness. The clots are dense ; they do not, as a rule, completely fill the lumen; they tend to Ijecome organised and absorbed, and rarely disintegrate. There is evidence of congestion in the cerebral veins and capillaries, and extra- vasations occur, minute but numerous, from the latter, ffidema also may result. The ventricles may l)e distended and the fluid may spread into the retro-ocular tissues and give rise to exoph- thalmos. The condition of the brain resulting from this is not definitely known ; it is probably one of induration and atrophy. Symptonw. — These are not usually definite enough to permit of a diagnosis being made. An indefinite illness of cerebral type, especially if it have been ushered in by a convulsion, and if it have followed prolonged and exhausting illness, should suggest sinus thrombosis. If oedema of the scalp be present, associated with localised convulsions, such a condition will suggest an extension of the thrombosis so as to implicate a cortical vein. The treatment best adapted to the relief of the condition is by the copious imbibition of stimulating fluid. If, however, diarrhoea is still present such treatment is inadmissible. It will then be necessary to resort to a large injection of tepid water into the rectum, or to the injec- tion of saline fluid into the veins. As soon as the patient is able to tolerate fluids by the stomach these should be administered copiously, and as hot as the patient can take them. Another variety of simple or non-infective thrombosis of veins or sinuses is that which occurs in chlorotic girls about the age of twenty. The longitudinal sinus in this class also is most frequently affected. The clots are usually firm, but they may be softened, and there are usually also present ha;morrhages from engorged veins or capillaries. The onset of the symptoms is preceded, as a rule, by a period of unusually hard work. Severe headache for several days is the innnediate precvn-sor, and this is frequently accompanied with vomiting. Convulsions also may come on, either unilateral or bilateral, succeeded by paralysis of one side. When this takes place the condition usually ends in coma and death. Recovery occasionally takes place from such a condition, but then the patient remains hemiplegic. Optic neuritis is common in the condition, and it is possible that many of those obscure and unexplained cases of optic neuritis occurring in antemic girls, associated with severe headache and vomiting, are the results of thrombosis occurring in some of the veins or sinuses closely related to the optic nerve. 2. Infective Thrombosis. — This variety is. secondary to a focus usually in the middle ear, occasionally in the nose or in the tonsils, or in the face or orbit. An anthrax pustule has been known to be the primary lesion. Compound fractures of the skull, also, in which the wound has become septic, may be the starting-point. When the sinus is affected the wall becomes- denuded of its epithelium, and the consequent roughness determines the point at which the thrombosis will start. The wall then becomes thickened and infiltrated, so that hsemorrhage from this is not to be feared as a rule. But by this infiltration the area of the process may become indefinitely enlarged. Collections of pus may form, or general meningitis may result, and the existence of such a clot con- stitutes a danger of distant infection, more especially of the lungs, where septic emboli may set up abscess, pneumonia, or even gangrene. Sometimes, however, the clot may have no tendency to break down, although the process may extend, and in such cases we may have a vein like the jugular completely blocked and to be felt as a hard cord along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid. The general features of septic sinus thrombosis are fairly well marked, although the symptoms are not very definite. The Diagnrms is facilitated by the recognition of an infective focus. The local symptoms naturally vary with the sinus affected. The symptoms are characterised by severe headache, rigors, profuse sweating, anorexia, diarrhoea, and an irregular temperature. Oedema of the scalp over the thrombosed sinus is frequently present. Lung symptoms are often absent, except some cough and occasional sharp pain during the first twenty-four hours after the lung infection. But then the prune-juice expectoration and the presence of rales soon place the matter beyond dispute. The offensive odour of the secretion and also, it may be mentioned, of the patient's stools, render extensive deodorising necessary. Pain in the liver may also be present, probably from extension of the inflammation to the diaphragm. The lungs become extensively dis- integrated, perhaps studded with abscesses. The mental condition may remain unimpaired up to the very end. Such is the pulmonary type of infective thrombosis. An abdominal or typhoid tyjje has also been described, with pain, diarrhoea of a pea-soup character, very offensive.