ANAESTHETICS—ETHER 153 rapidly, a short stage at each inspiration, until the patient becomes auEesthetic and is ready for the operation. The index will now be at three in most cases, in others at four. ' it is important that the jaatientshould "give way" to the anesthetic, not resist it. Some persons giving ether upset the patient at the l)eginning by turning on the index too rapidly without winning the tolerance proper to the first stage. Others waste time by not watching their opportunity and pushing on rapidly at the proper time. The guiding principle should be not to push the ether more rapidly than the patient tolerates, hut at the same time to push on as rapidly as you can. It is well to move on by very short stages of the index, especially in the early stages. Hewitt says, " As a general rule aliout one- eighth of an incli of the circimiference of the reservoir may be removed away from the in- dicator every breath or two." For convenience I have spoken above of moving the index (or indicator), whereas the reservoir revolves and the index is fixed. Factor 4. That ether is unpleasant, and chloroform the reverse.—This no doubt is true. But, if ether is skilfully administered, with the majority of people the unpleasantness will not lie great nor of long duration, and with some, and I speak from my own experience in my own ease, will be entirel}' absent. Again, granted that ether is in many instances more mipleasant than chloroform, is this an adequate set-otf against the risk 1 Factor 5. That ether is siipposed to lie frequently responsible for bronchitis, more so than chloroform.—One of the strongest points which defenders of chloroform urge as an objection to ether is the risk of fatal bronchitis. On this I have four remarks to make. (1) That if ether be properly administered, fatal bronchitis is an extremely rare event. (2) That even chloroform has been followed by a fatal bronchitis. (3) That the possibility of such a risk calls for the greatest vigilance against chilling of the patient by all who are responsil)le for operations in hospitals. (4) That during my more than twenty years of almost exclusive use of ether in private surgical work I can only recall one case of fatal broncho-pneumonia as a sequel to an operation under ether. Hewitt has some signifi- cant and interesting remarks on this point, which may be summed up in this sentence, " When ether is properly administered to ap- propriate cases, the danger of such after-results is infinitesimal." (iENERAij Rules for the Administration of Ether.—Rule 1. As to food. If possible the stomach should be empty. It is best to operate early, at 8.30 or 9 a.m., before any food has been taken. If the patient be feeble, or if the opemtion has to be later than 9, a cup of tea, with cream and not milk, should be given early. at 7. When the operation is at mid-day or later, no food should be given for four or hve hours (some ana3sthetists say five or six hours), before the operation, and any food so given should not l)e either meat or milk or egg. Rule. 2. Make sure that false teeth are re- moved before connnencing to administer the aiicesthetic. Rule 3. Have at hand tom/ue forceps, or artery forceps, and a Mason's gag. Rule 4. See to the patient's warmth, especi- ally if he has to be removed from his bed for the operation. For perineal operations, it is well, besides stockings, to provide warm leg- gings. The leggings may very readily he made from a pair of child's cot Itlankets, doubled and united along the edge. In hospitals the warmth of the patient is more difficult to secure than in private practice, and needs in proportion the greater vigilance. At the best there must be considerable loss of warmth in removal from bed to ambulance, in the journey along corridors, in the transfer from ambulance to operating-table, in exposure of a large surface of the body on the operating- table, in removal back to ambulance, back through corridors and into bed, which can hardly, even with a liot bottle, be as warm as when it was left. May not this too little estimated loss of heat be responsible for some of the bronchitis laid at the door of ether and chloroform 1 Rule T). Approach the piatient so as to win conjidence, and not to insj^ire or increase an existing dread, keeping the inhaler as little in evidence as possible, or even out of sight, until the patient's attention has been engrossed by the application of the face-piece. This is all the more necessary with nervous or very young patients. Rule 6. Fi7-st apply the face-piece witli tlie " ivhistle" fixed into it, and see that it tits comfortably, is of suitable size, and liy its adaptability to the bridge of the nose, cheeks, and chin, compels all respiration to pass through the "whistle." Rule 7. As soon as the jjatient has become tised to the contact of the mouth-piece and breathes calmly, remove it, join it to the reser- voir, blow through the reservoir so as to get rid of any ether vapour, and then )-e-apply quickly with the indicator at 0. N.B.—-If the inhaler be a new one make sure that the lettering is correct, and that when the indicator points to 0 you are not luiwittingly turning on full ether. At this period the patient will taste the diffused vapour of ether, but will not inhale it, as the breath passes directly through the centre of the reservoir without traversiiig the ether chamber. 1 always use methylated ether, sp. gr. '720. Rule 8. After ttco or three hreathinffs through the reservoir the india-rnhber hag is filled and added, and as soon as the patient fills the bag