ANTHROPOLOGY 218 supports this conclusion : from the Cercopithe- cidse the human embryo is early to be dis- tinguished by the absence of a marked tail, V)ut the resemblance between the embryo of Hylobates Miilleri (a gibbon, one of the Simiidas) and a human embryo of corresponding age is very striking. It is not, however, in the struc- ture of his body that man so differs from the other mammals (and especially from the other Anthropoidea) as in the quality of his mental processes. Psychologically he is indeed far removed from the nearest ape. With senses no more acute (in some instances actually less acute) than those of the mammals, he is able by his intellectual powers to speak and to reason, to advance in tlie path of civilisation, to profit by experience, and to control as well as to investigate the powers of Nature. His mental capacity is far above animal instinct in these respects, but especially in the power of improving upon the past achievements of the race. Without touching upon the question of his spiritual powers and the matter of his rehgion, he is far removed—even as represented by the savage races of mankind—from the highest apes. These considerations naturally lead on to a third series of investigations : those whicli seek to discover the origin of man. For the solution of this problem various departments of science have been laid under contribution. In order to determine whether mankind took origin separately on the earth's surface (the " crea- tionist " theory) or was evolved from other animal types (the Darwinian or " evolutionist" theory), recourse has been had to Comparative Morphology, to Human and Comparative Embry- ology, to Teratology, to Ethnology, to Philology, Sociology, and many other subsidiary subjects. At the present day the line of cleavage between the two theories of man's origin is not so sharp as it was forty years ago, for the principle of progress in the succession of animal types on the earth is now generally admitted, although it is not conceded that the various species are related by parental descent and have been evolved, the more complicated forms from the simpler, by the process of natural selection. It seems, from the evidence available, that at some time in the history of the race a special accelerat- ing cause must be postulated, or that, at any rate, evolution passed through its earlier phases much more quickly than through its later. It is now recognised also that Human Embryology does not represent a complete recapitulation of the development of man from the lower forms; there are gaps in the progression of forms. The study of the meaning of the structural relics, such as the appendix vermiformis, left in the human subject; that of teratological formations, such as supernumerary auricles and extra digits ; and that of racial morphological variations, have all been followed out without any definite conclu- sion being arrived at. With regard, for instance. to the occurrence of a tail in the human subject, the search for homines caudati, whether in recent times or in prehistoric epochs, still has been unrewarded, although the occasional occur- rence of both true tails and pseudo-tails as a teratological phenomenon in the human subject is admitted (Ballantyne, Antenatal Pathology, The Embryo, pp. 319-327, 1904). Recourse is now being made to the investigation of Com- parative Physiology in order to get more light upon the problem of evolution, and it may be noted in passing that many parts of this field of research have been sti'angely neglected in the past. The study of menstruation in the human female and the higher mammals, for instance, has only within recent years begun to be under- taken, with the result tliat we now know that this phenomenon is not distinctively liTiman, but is related to processes in other mammals which differ from it in details possibly due in them to the absence of the erect posture. It must, at the present time, be admitted that the question of the descent of man is unsettled. Some details have, however, been decided, and even if the Javan relics be not those of man's Tertiary ancestor, the " missing link," progress has yet been made. We are now in a position to state that the higher apes at present existing on the earth's surface did not figure in man's genealogical tree ; they are themselves more specialised in certain directions than man, and theii- ancestors were probably more anthropoid than they themselves are. Even the presently existing aborigines (such as those of Tasmania), although possessing many simian characters, are not necessarily pictures of what the higher races of mankind were in prehistoric times ; they are themselves specialised, apparently as the result of their environment. One of the unascertainable factors in the evolution of the human race is environ- ment, or rather the special kind of environment which prevailed in prehistoric times. Under the term " environment" must be included geographical position, temperature, food supply, prevalent diseases, social habits, and the like ; and the question of the effect which these varied influences have had in promoting or retarding natural or sexual selection is neces- sarily one of the greatest complexity. This consideration leads naturally to the problem of the original home of man upon the earth, and this is intimately associated with the question of the original unity (monogenism) or diversity (polygenism) of the human species. With regard to the latter, it must be admitted that the presently existing races show very little tendency to be modified by changes in their environment, and that we find races living under the same conditions and showing little or no approximation to each other after the lapse of considerable periods of time; these facts would seem to support polygenism. On the