253 APPENDICITIS the greatest care, for a tear may \)e easily made in the bowel at the point of attachment. It is sometimes well to leave a portion of wall of the appendix attached to the bowel. Not infre- quently it is very difficult to find the appendix, it is so hidden away in adhesions; but the greater one's experience, the fewer appendices are left behind—one's tactile sense becomes so educated that the finger after a time can easily detect an altered appendix thougli it may be quite out of sight. It is always better to remove an apj^endix if its removal does not involve too nmch dissection or too much disturbance of the limiting wall which separates it from the general peritoneal cavity. In cases of gangrenous appendix the gangrene may extend so far that it is impossible to tie off the appendix from the cfficvun; in these cases the stump is so short that the liga- ture holds only insecurely, and the condition of the tissue forbids suture. In such cases inver- sion of the stump into the ctecum has been suggested, and then the inverted jmrt closed over by Lembert's sutures. It not infrequently happens that on opening the peritoneal cavity the thick wall of the abscess cavity is seen on the posterior wall. In such cases the general cavity should be carefully separated before opening it by aseptic gauze pads, as described above, then the abscess opened with the patient turned on his right side. As soon as pus appears, it, of course, must be swabbed up with gauzes. Again, the abscess cavity may be surrounded by coils of intestine weakly held together by soft adhesions. In these cases great care must be taken not to infect the general cavity, and careful keeping away of the intestines by the assistant's hands or pads must necessarily be attended to. Operation in acute cases of appendicitis may be very simple or very difficult, and only experience will tell us how to most easily overcome the difficulties. The simple cases are those when on cutting- through the abdominal wall we find it cedcmatous and infiltrated. We know that the abscess is near tiie anterior wall, and, in fact, it may be attached to it, so that on opening the abscess there is no need at all of opening the peritoneal cavity. In all cases it is better to keep out the pus with sponges or gauzes than to wash it out; there is much less chance of its being dis- si'uiinated. Many surgeons are accustomed, after the pus has been removed and the appendix tied off, to wash out the cavity with saline solution, but the writer has given up this custom for some time and finds his resTilts equally good. Some surgeons also carefully peel off the lymph which covei's the intestines; this is quite unnecessary, and may be dangerous because of opening up fresh avenues of infection. According to "Welch of Baltimore, this exudate is always sterile. Now, after the abscess cavity has been made as clean as possible and all ha3morrhage arrested, it should be packed with iodoform or sterilised gauze, the wound partially closed—how much, depends on the judgment of the operator. It is the writer's custom to suture the wound in layers, leaving a part below unsutured through which the gauze comes out. Should the abscess extend behind the colon, it might be as well to put a drainage tube through the wound and out at the flank. This is easily done by thrusting a pair of artery forceps through the soft tissues of the posterior wall and cutting down on them thi'ough the skin ; when they are thrust through the skin the incision may be enlarged slightly and the blades of the forceps opened, and into them put a drainage tube, which is withdrawn with the forceps. This method of fjosterior drainage the writer has found most useful in these cases ; the drain need not be left in long ; an anterior drain is of little use. Some advise cotton-wick where a small drain only is needed ; a strip of green protective silk tissue is very useful in such cases. When the diseased appendix is situated near the brim of the pelvis, or hanging over the brim, a pelvic abscess not infrequently results. It is well in all cases where the appendix is low down to explore the pelvis before closing the wound, and if pus be present to insert a glass drain with gauze packing about it, through which pus can be sucked at intervals with a glass syringe and rubber tube attached which can go inside the glass tube ; a strip of gauze in the tube acts well as a drain. Secondary abscesses not infreqiiently occur here. It is possible sometimes to open these abscesses through the rectum, and so get dependent drainage. After suturing, dry sterilised gauze should be placed next the wound, and over this a large mass of aseptic absorbent cotton wool, and over all a bandage or a couple of broad strips of rubber adhesive plaster. The outer dressings should lie changed in twenty-four hoiu-s, and will be found soaked in serum ; the packing should be left twent^'-four hours longer, and then removed with great care —this procedure is often quite painful, and in children an anesthetic may have to be ad- ministered. After cleansing the wound with pledgets of sterilised cotton, it should be re- packed, but not so firndy; of late I have used strips of sterilised gauze in place of iodoform gauze, and find it is easier to remove and more absorbent. The dressing is renewed every two days, less gauze introduced everj- time, until it is left out altogether, and the rest of the wound heals rapidly. After operation the bowels are frequently dis- tended with gas, and to relieve this painful condition an enema of soap-suds and turpentine (3j.-0j.) should be given during the first twenty-