9 ABDOMEN, INJURIES OF iis recommended by Semi, may lead to its re- cognition. When found, tlie perforation, if small, should be closed by a double row of Lembert sutures, as in the case of the stomach. If the laceration be large, or associated with considerable contusion of the edges, enterectomy sliould be performed, and the divided ends united by one of the many forms of suture, or b}^ means of liobson's bone bobbin, Murphy's button or other mechanical appliance, according to the preference of the surgeon. Sliould it appear that the condition of the patient is too bad for so long an operation as excision and anastomosis, an artificial anus must be formed —the opening in the ruptured bowel being brought to the surface. The cleansing of the peritoneum, and drainage—if necessary—must be carried out as in the case of rupture of the stomach. Rents of the omentum or mesentery may be sutured after the bleeding vessels have been secured. If a tear in the mesentei-y is found close to the intestine, so as to be likely to inter- fere with the nutrition of the neighbouring- bowel, the portion of gut had better be excised, and the ends united, in order to avoid gangrene of the intestine. Severe contusions of the omentum are best treated by excision of the affected area. The abdomen should be cleared of all blood-clot by sponging. No drainage is necessary. If a rupture of the liver is found, moderate bleeding from a slight fissure may be checked by the temporary application of a sponge wrung out in hot sterilised water; the rent may then be closed by means of sutures passed through the capsule and jDart of the liver substance on either side. If the bleeding is more severe and the laceration larger, deep sutures of catgut should be passed through the liver substance, so as to approximate the edges of the wound and exercise the necessary pressure upon the bleeding vessels, at the same time. Attempts to secure the vessels individually are usually unsuccessful, as the liver substance is too friable to allow a ligature to liold. If deep suturing should fail, or be inapplicable, the rent should be plugged with aseptic gauze, one end of which should be brought out of the abdominal wound. The gauze should be removed at the end of forty-eight hours. After the removal of all blood-clot, the abdomen should be closed witli- out drainage if possible. Small wounds of the GALL-BLADDER may be closed by a double row of sutures ; or the margins of the rent may be sewn to the abdominal incision, as in chole- cystotomy. Lacerations of the cystic duct, and large wounds of the gall-bladder, are best treated by ligature of the cystic duct on the distal side of the tear, and removal of the gall- bladder (cholecystectomy). Rupture of the hepatic or common duct often permits only of gauze tamponnage, but where possible the common duct should be sutured. An incurable biliary fistula is likely to result in these cases. All bile should be removed from the abdomen : drainage is best secured by placing a tube in the peritoneal pouch below the right kidney, and bringing the outer end to the surface in the flank. Such drainage would be desiralile in cases treated by tamponnage, but may not be necessary in other cases. Rupture of the SPLEEN is treated, if moderate in size, by turning out the blood-clot, and passing deep sutures, or plugging with aseptic gauze, as in wounds of the liver. If the injury is more extensive, and accompanied by copious hfcnior- rhage, the organ should be rapidly turned out, the vessels at the hilum seized in a clamp, and splenectomy jjerformed. Rupture of the abdominal blood-vessels presents nothing special in treatment by coeliotomy. The bleeding vessels must be found, and ligatured above and below the seat of injury. No drainage is necessary if all blood- clot is thoroughly removed by sponging. For the treatment of rupture of the kidney, ureter or URINARY BLADDER, reference must be made to the articles devoted to these organs. After-treatment.—Any special indication having thus been met, and the abdominal wound closed, it is desirable in most cases to allow only liquid diet for the first few days, and to supplement this by stimulating, nutrient rectal injections. Vomiting may be checked by tablespoonful doses of hot water, and thirst i-elieved by the injection of half a pint of warm water into the rectum. The hypodermic ad- ministration of morphine for tlie relief of pain may be necessary. The diet should be gradually improved ; but the patient ought not to leave his bed for the first two or three weeks, at which time tlie stitches uniting the abdominal incision may be removed. Cases of suspected partial rupture of the viscera, in which an expectant plan of treat- ment is adopted, would also he conducted in this manner. Subsequent abscess formation should be treated on oi'dinary principles. 2. Wounds of the Abdomen These injuries are met witii as incised, punctured, contused, lacerated, or gunshot wounds as in other parts of the body, and may be produced by various forms of blunt or sharp instruments—the nature of wijich may exercise considerable influence on the extent of the niiscliief inflicted. The time-honoured division into penetrating and non-penetrating wounds, according to whether the peritoneum is wounded or not, is all-important : for tlie former are more likely to involve tlic abdominal contents, and end in death from shock, ha>morrhage, or peritonitis.