221 ANTIPERIODICS consists in tlieir power of preventing attacks, or of diminishing their frequency and severity, when given beforehand, and of queUing or miti- gating actual paroxysms of certain diseases which are, reguhirly or irregularly, periodic in charactei'. Cinchona and its allies form the most pro- minent members of the group, and owe their antiperiodic properties to tlie alkaloids quinina, cinchonina, cinchonidina, and others found in them. Quinina, usually employed in the form of its sulphate, although the chloride is as powerful and much more soluble in water, possesses a most remarkable power over the malarial poison, be it filarial or of a mixed nature; a power far more extensive than that of a mere antipyretic. Preventative either of initial infection or of the actual piiroxysms of an attack of malaria, it acts specifically in all malarial cases, but it also is an antipyretic acting as the ordinary members of the class do. In addition to its action upon malarial maladies, it has lieen found to be very useful in warding oft' influenzal attacks, given in doses of about five grains each morning when- ever signs of the approach of an epidemic of this modern scoiu-ge appear, and continued until what time its visitation may terminate. During an actual attack of influenza it does not appear to be of any great service ; those who have taken quinina for some time and are attacked by the disease, as a rule suffer less both then and afterwards. Long after all the actual agents in the causa- tion of malarial symjjtoms must have been got rid of, and when the chances of fresh infection are impossible, the addition of quinina to other remedies given for many non-malarial ills will aid their action, often to a remarkable extent. In addition to the cinchona alkaloids, beberina from Bebeeru bark, eucalyptus, and arsenic possess reputed antiperiodic properties. Uses.—Hardly anything need be added to the foregoing as to the uses of antiperiodics. Quinina and the allied alkaloids act specifically upon the poison of malaria, and also form the l)est means we have in the remittent fevers of hot countries. Patients suffering from malaria can take with impunity doses of quinina so large as assm-edly to cause svmptoms of cinchonism in others. This f act is beneficial, as large doses are often required to prove of service. Several of the recent synthetic antipyretics seem to assist quinina in its actions. Salicinum, salicylic acid, and salol serve the same purpose in acute rheumatic attacks as quinina in malaria. Bebe- nna is not nearly so powerful a drug as quinina in malaria. Arsenic occasionally aids the action of other antiperiodics; indeed, it may act successfully when given alone, even after the more special members of the group have failed. Anti peristalsis.—The vermicular con- tractions of the stomach or intestines reversed, so that the contents are carried upwards and not downwards. AntiphlOgristiC. — Opposed to or pre- venting inflannuation, e.g. venesection and depressing drugs. Antipneumococcic Serum. —A bactericidal serum, supposed tu be efficacious in the diseases due to pneumococci. See Pneu- M( ixiA, Ci.ixiPAL; Therapeutics, Serum Therapy. AntipOdagfriC.—Medicines or methods of treatment useful in checking or preventing gout (podagra) ; antartlu-itic. See Gout. Antipruritic.—Applications, drugs, etc., capable of relieving itching. See Pruritus. Antipyonin. — A preparation said to consist of s(j(liiuii tetraborate, used to check or prevent suppm-ation. Antipyretics and Antipyretic Measures. Definition ...... 221 Modes of Action ..... 221 Classification ...... 222 Uses 223 See also Pharmacology ; Temperature, etc. Definition.—{<j.vtI, against; Trvperos, fever)— Drugs or measures which possess the power of lowering increase of body temperature produced by disease. A few drugs can lower the tempera- ture of the body in health, and these only if pushed so far as to cause symptoms of collapse. Measures taken to lower pyrexia are as truly antipyretic as are drugs. Modes of Action.—Few classes of drugs are used so frequently, and with so small an under- standing of their true pharmacological properties, as the class of antipyretics. To properly grasp the important differences which exist between the modes of bringing about diminution of fever by groups of antipyretic drugs, and which are clearly defined one from the other, a word as to the supposed arrangement of the heat-regulating mechanism in the brain will be of service. The temperature of the body is regarded as being under the supervision of a thermotaxic centre, situated in the cerebral cortex, which in tiu'u influences a secondarj' centre regulating the production of heat, the thermogenetic centre in the corpus striatum, and another similar to it, the thermolytic centre in the medulla, concerned with the amount of heat allowed to pass out of the body. The temperature of the body is regulated by these centres; the production or ac(juirement of heat being coimtcrbalanced by the loss. The clinical use of the various means of reducing fever is dependent on their action \\\Km one or other of these centres, n]um both the thermogenetic and thermolytic central