155 ANAESTHETICS—ETHER by two or three Vireatliings of fresh air, when the anesthesia can be easily maintained by a moderate aniomit of ether (index at 2 or even 1), fre(juently intermitted without again induc- ing carbonisation and bhiencss of lips. If the patient is kept constantly carbonised, mucus is poured out into the ])ronchi, a condition whicli should rarely occin-, and whereby probably a greater risk of bronchitis is incurred. There are, however, persons, and these cases are rare, in whom some condition, probably of heart, possibly of lung, produces dyspnoea with liiueness, even with the greatest care, a con- dition which prevails during the whole period of aucesthetisation. Such cases demand anxious watchfulness. As a ride, when there is blueness of lips the inhaler should be I'emoved imtil the red colour is re-established. Arrest of Respiration.—According to the observation of those who still advocate chloro- form as the best antesthetic, arrest of respiration is a danger-signal not less menacing than failure of pulse, and indeed is by some considered to be the one point to be anxiouslj' watched. This sometimes leads those, who without full experi- ence are administering ether, to take alarm when a patient in the early stage of etherisation for a time ceases to breathe. The cases, how- ever, are very different. Under chloroform, arrest of respiration is a sign of danger, as it is caused by the poisonous effect of the drug upon the respiratory centre in the brain, and is rapidly followed by failing pulse. Whereas cessation to breathe under ether is either a half-vohuitary holding of the breath which passes off in a minute or so, or is a spasmodic closing of the jaws and drawing back of the tongue, which, as soon as a certain degree of carbonisation takes jjlace, becomes relaxed and allows normal respira- tion to be restored. Meantime the pulse is not failing but beating strongly. On this point Hewitt says, " The all-important point concern- ing respiratory failure in moderately healthy people under ether is this, ' ho7vever such failure may arise, the circulation of the patient at the moment when breathing ceases is sufficiently satis- factory for remedial measures to be almost invari- ably suA^cessful.'" After-sickness.—Mr. Walter Thompson tells me tliat, from constant inquiries that he has made of the ward Sisters, sickness after ether is less frequent, and much less distressing and serious, than after chloroform. This entirely agrees with my experience in private practice. Use of Chloroform along with Ether.— Though I never use the A.C.E. mixture, which I believe to be only less dangerous than chloro- form, in a few instances I use chloroform, chiefly as an introduction to ether, very rarely and exceptionally as a sequence. As a preliminary to ether I consider chloi'o- form to be useful, and justifiable, in the following cases :—(1) In very young children, to overcome fear. (2) In very timid, excessively sensitive, almost hysterical persons, who rebel against the face-piece and the smell of ether. (3) In persons who have a very distressing recollection of a previous administration of ether. (4) In persons subject to asthma and bronchitis. In such cases 1 give chloroform on the folded towel as I have seen it used in Edinburgh, just tip to the p)oint of semi-consciousHess ivhen the ether can be pmt on withoid inchicinc/ distress or resistance. Mean- time free respiration is being maintained. As a sequence to ether, I have used chloroform in hare-lip and operations about the mouth and face, where, during an operation, the face-piece of the ether-inhaler could not be applied. In these cases I take care that the patient is "charged up with ether," "has been breathing- ether vapour for some minutes," before com- mencing the operation. " When ether has been given say for 5 or 6 minutes, the quantity of chloroform then required to allay any symp- toms of coming round will be very small" (Hewitt). There is one use of chloroform after ether which I believe to be excessively dangerous, and has I believe twice led to a fatal result in the Leeds Infirmary during recent years. When a patient is violently struggling against ether, and the aiucsthetist, failing to induce anjesthetic sleep, attempts to conquer the struggles and resistance by chloroform. In such cases, assuming that to proceed with ether is out of the question, the only safe way probably is, to allow the patient to come round from the ether, and then to begin cautiously with chloroform. Nitrous Oxide as a Preliminary to Ether. —This subject is considered on page 158. On Etherisation of the Very Young and THE Very" Old.—In discussions on anaesthetics it is not uncommon for even strong advocates of ether to make an exception in the case of the very young and the very old. I do not in my own practice, as a matter of course, except even the very old, but deal with each case on its own merits. If an aged person showed a respiratoiy intolerance of ether I should not hesitate to substitute chloroform, liut, after the establish- ment of anicsthesia, I might then use ether for its continuance. But with the very young 1 have recently almost invarial)ly used ether, preceded for a very short time by chloroform to obviate fear, in the following manner:— Chloroform on a handkerchief or folded towel is given until the child is just " fuddled " and will not be conscious of the change to ether. Ether is given in a small Ormsby's inhaler with the valve closed, and the effect of ether is rapidly induced. The face-piece is a round hollow pad of larger calibre than the pad of the Clover's face-piece, which easily fits either an infant or a child of one or two years of age. For such the ordinary small Clover's face-piece is too large.