414 BLOOD, PHYSIOLOGY AND CLINICAL INVESTIGATION OF salts are the chlorides and phosphates. There is also about 70 per cent water. By far the most important constituent is the haemoglobin, and it is with variations in the amount of this body that the clinician has mainly to deal. Most of the constituents are in a labile state, and this especially holds good of the soluble inorganic salts, e.g. the chlorides. The per- centages of water and chlorides go hand in hand. The organic nitrogenous constituents are not nearly so unstable, the interchange between plasma and cells depending largely upon their state of solution with the salts present. The stroma of the cells is albuminous in nature. A point of great importance, and one that is apt to be overlooked, is that in the non-nucleated mammalian erythi-ocyte there is probably still some nuclear matter present which, under the influence of different agents, leaves the cell in the form of the mother sub- stance of the blood plates {see Plate). Analyses have been made of the human red blood-corpviscles, but the results are unsatis- factory, for the reason that after their separation it is impossible to wash them free from the constituents of the plasma without removing in part, at least, some of the more soluble con- stituents of the cells. 2. Leucocytes.—As it is impossible to sep- arate those cells so as to admit of an exact chemical analysis, most of our knowledge as to their composition is based upon results derived from examination of pus, organs rich in lym- phocytes and leixcocythaemic blood. A few points of great interest in their chemical com- position have been made out by Kossel and others, supplementing what we already know from the microscopic examination. They are rich in a complex proteid, nucleo-histon, which is composed of nuclein combined with a body possessing many of the characters of an al- bumose, namely, histon. The high phosphorous percentage of the cells depends mainly upon the presence of this substance and lecithin. Some of the other important constituents are derived from the nucleo-histon, namely, the alloxur bases—adenin, guanin, xanthin. Gly- cogen is present in some, if not all, of the cells, as are also cholesterin, lecithin, and fats. The inorganic salts are the same as those met with in the red blood - corpuscles. The specific granules in the cells are probably either nucleo- histon or derivatives from that body. 3. Blood Plates. —• Reference has already been made to their chemical composition. They undoubtedly contain organically formed phosphorus, and are only with great difficulty dissolved by the action of the gastric juice. They contain glycogen. Their probable nucleoid nature has been sufficiently referred to. 4. Granules.—Some are fatty, others al- buminous, and many are pigment granules derived from breaking down of hsemoglobin. Developmental History.—It would not be advisable to give here more than the briefest account of the development of the blood cor- puscles. The most diverse opinions are held at the present day even on such fundamental points as the seat of formation of these cells in foetal and adult life. One of the most im- portant contriliutions to our knowledge of this siibject which has been made within recent years is that of Saxer. He noticed that wander- ing cells, each possessing a large round nucleus and finely granular protoplasm, are to be found in the connective tissue very early in em- bryonic life (sheep embryos 9 mm. long). These differed from the fixed connective tissue cells in possessing a large nucleus and no clasping processes. In larger embryos (25 mm. long) groups of these cells are seen lying close to the blood-vessels, but independent of them. They are seen to divide mitotically and produce smaller cells, which possess small round nuclei, similar to those of the erythrohlasts, and also contain hfemoglobin deposited in the cytoplasm. Giant cells are also to be seen containing in their protoplasm degenerating red cells. In still older embryos leucocytes appear for the first time, lying close to the lymphatics. They arise from the same cells as the red ones which have just been described. Later on in em- bryonic life (embryos 13-5 cm. long) the for- mation of red cells in the connective tissue stops, the liver, spleen, lymphatic glands, and bone marrow, as their development proceeds, taking on the function instead. The liver is the most important seat of formation of the erythrohlasts in embryonic life. It is very doubtful, however, whether there is at ^ any time an endogenous formation of nucleated or non-nucleated red Vjlood-corpuscles in giant cells or vessel-forming cells (Ranvier) in the liver or elsewhere. Normally in man, at least, there is no formation of erythrohlasts after birth in liver, spleen, or lymphatic glands, the bone marrow then being the sole seat of their develop- ment. It is difficult to say whether there is a hsemoglobin-free forerunner of the erythrohlasts occurring at the centres of development of the latter. The mother cell—Saxer's wandering cell—is, of course, free from hiemoglobin, but in the later development of erythrohlasts it is difficult to be certain whether there is a cell free from hsemoglobin, having the general char- acters of the erythroblast, which is transformed into the typical pigmented cell. There seems undoubtedly to be an extra- as well as intra- vascular development of erythrohlasts in the bone marrow. The forerunners of the granular leucocytes are developed outside the vessels of the marrow. These developmental changes are seen in the red marrow both in embryonic life and after birth. In pathological conditions erythrohlasts may be found in the spleen in adult life, as, for example, in leucocythgemia.