88 ALCOHOL lowered resistance of the organism and of its constituent elements. The direct ir-ritative changes affect chiefly the upper alimentary tract, the liver, the heart, and the blood-vessels, which are immediately exposed to the poison, and the nervous tissues which are the most sensitive to it. In alcoholic pharyngitis, oesophagitis, and gastritis congestion is associated with the changes which accompany chronic catarrh. Thickening of the gastric mucous membrane with slight fibrosis is produced by ardent spirits, wliilst dilatation of the stomach may be the mechanical result of the beer-drinker's libations. The frequency of the two forms of cirrhosis of the liver is less surprising than the fact that they are not more constant and earlier to appear. Some livers m&j be tolerant of the poison, others exceedingly vulnerable. Chronic excesses in beer and in spirits are the primary causes ; but the mechanism of the change needs further elucidation. The kidney probably suffers slight structural lesions, to which the transient attacks of albu- minuria may be due. An increased bulk of the organ is, however, usually more obvious, par- ticularly in the beer-drinker's kidney, than any qualitative change. Beer-drinking may never- theless, by promoting gout, lead to granular kidney. The Blood-Vessels and the Heart.—Atheroma may be associated with the simple fatty changes which occur in the walls of the aorta and of the larger arteries ; and the arterioles are apt to be thickened. The veins are frequently large and i-elaxed; and piles are common in cirrhosis. The heart may present no change beyond in- creased softness and friability of the myo- cardium, due to fatty degeneration. In some cases the extreme changes described by Graham Steell under the name of the "alcoholic heart" are found. Though the kidneys are not granular but large and congested, the heart in this con- dition is considerably hypertrophied as well as dilated. Minor dilatations are also apt to occur under various conditions of strain. The Lungs and Bronchi.—Chronic congestion and thickening are found in the bronchial, laryngeal, and tracheal mucous membrane. In the lungs themselves the tendency is towards emphysema with atrophy. Bronchitis, broncho- pneumonia, and pneumonia are complications frequently fatal; indeed, recovery from pneu- monia is exceptional in alcoholic subjects. The tuberculosis so frequent in them is almost always pulmonary. The generative organs are sometimes the seat of atrophic and fibrotic changes. The genital function and reproductiveness are depressed, and the oiFspring of alcoholic parents are specially liable to various forms of nervous delicacy, in- cluding idiocy, epilepsy, insanity, and crime. Among the symptoms of chronic alcoholism there are many that cannot be traced to their anatomical origin, and we are led to infer the existence of changes too subtle to be demon- strated, to explain the altered metabolism, the diminished resistance to some poisons and the increased resistance to others. Gout is not directly traceable to alcohol, though its pro- duction is largely favoured by rich wines and strong beer. Whilst alcohol intensifies the in- fluence of the gout-producing factors, advanced alcoholism is a form of starvation, and gives little opportunity for the gouty process. The Clinical Uses of Alcohol Alcohol in Health.—The pliysical, sedative, and narcotic actions of alcohol.—Alcohol is a luxury rather than a requirement under normal conditions, and a source of weakness rather than of strength for the purposes of sustained work. But in the excessive pressure and wear and tear of modern life it is undeniably useful in easing fatigue, soothing worry, dispelling anxiety, and cheering moods of depression. Its value is that of a psychical stimulant and alterative, but above all of a sedative; and this is also the secret of some of its therapeutic uses. Much less commendable is the resort to alcohol in exhaustion for the purpose of more work. The object may be obtained, Vjut it would have been better secured with the help of less harmful stimulants, such as tea or cofi'ee. Spirits late in the evening are usually a superflous luxury, and cannot be advocated. Nevertheless, their narcotic effect is often of signal service. Its Digestive Value.—The dietetic value of alcohol residing less in its nutritive coefficient than in its beneficial effect upon the digestive and nervous functions, it is best taken with meals. Though, like our various condiments, it complicates digestion, a moderation of the wine that pleases favours eupepsia and enables many to digest whose digestion naight without it have been a failure. Its place is during or after the meal; only little of it should be drunk at the beginning. Thanks to the lasting restorative action of food and of sleep, the reactionary depression passes unperceived when the " physiological" daily allowance is divided between the meals and the hour of rest, and the regularity of the habit becomes a protection against any danger- ous craving. The practice of drinking alcohol at all times of the day, and especially in the early morning, cannot be too strongly con- demned. Alcohol in Infancy and Childhood.—The well- known effect of maternal alcoholism on foetal nutrition and development illustrates the per- nicious influence which it might exert upon extra-uterine growth, and the exceptional cases in which the alcoholic habit has been established at a tender age in children of the poor entrusted with fetching the liquor from the public-house