ASCITES 290 of the abdomen may beoomi. dull. In tuber- culous peritonitis the ascites is usually moderate in amount. In this affection, too, a distinctive redness and swelling are apt to appear aroimd the umbilicus from time to time. Sometimes this is the precursor of a discharge of pus at this point. In carcinomatous infection of the peri- toneum the umbilicus may become hardened by the subperitoneal deposit of growth at that spot. The liver may be felt in some cases of cirrhosis, either by a quick dipping movement of the fingers through the superjacent fluid, or more easily immediately after paracentesis. Hardness and perhaps granularity of the surface may be recognised. In cirrhosis the spleen may also be felt, if it is not obscured by the fluid, while this is rarely the case in tuberculous peritonitis. In most cases of cirrhosis, however, the edge of the liver is out of reach, except perhaps in the sub- sternal notch. Gummata may be felt on the surface. In perihepatitis the liver is rarely enlarged. In the case of secondary carcinoma it is nearly always greatly enlarged, and nodules or tumours may be felt projecting from its surface. If such tumours are few and large, the possible presence of hydatids must be borne in mind. Finally, search must be made over the whole abdomen, and in the pelvis, for any solid mass. The ovaries and the uterus rmist be carefully examined. In many cases of tuber- culous peritonitis, especially those of long stand- ing, a mass of thickened omentum can be felt, sometimes vaguely, often distinctly, as a bar lying across the abdomen above or at the level of the umbilicus. An area of ill-defined resist- ance at any part of the abdomen may also be met with, due to omental thickening, or to the formation of intestinal adhesions. The same signs may be found when the peritonitis is of a simple nature, and sometimes the bowel is matted into a very palpable mass. In the case of carcinomatous infection of the peritoneum, hard and sharply-defined masses can usually be felt through the abdominal wall, and here again the infiltrated omentum can often be felt as a transverse bar-like tumoui*. But when the growth is in the form of disseminated miliary nodules, there is commonly extreme ascites and no solid material can be detected. Carcinoma- tous nodules, and tuberculous glands, or even caseous nodules on the peritoneum, can occasion- ally be recognised on rectal examination. After paracentesis the characters of the fluid, which have been already mentioned, more particularly as regards the specific gravity, proteid-percentage, and coagulability, will give important information as to the cause. Treatment.—Ascites is a symptom, and the first step towards its treatment must be the recognition of the cause. The possibilities of i-emoval of the fluid by medicinal action are limited. If it is due to cardiac or renal disease or to some general disorder, much may be done in this direction. Potassium iodide must be employed, if there be any possibility of depend- ence on syphilitic aftection of the liver, but only in an early stage can benefit be expected. For the rest, medicinal treatment can only be of a general tonic nature, and any attempt to remove the fluid by purgation is not to be recommended. The fluid must be removed by operative measures, whenever and as often as it comes to exert much pressure on heart or lungs. In the 'i case of a tuberculous peritonitis the fluid must jj be removed through a small incision, according I' to the line of treatment laid down elsewhere, !' and an encysted ascites must be dealt with, if ; necessary, by incision and not by paracentesis. In j all other cases simple paracentesis is sufficient. " When the ascites is dependent on cardiac or j renal disease, this is often unnecessary, but in ! cases of cirrhosis and chronic peritonitis repeated tappings are commonly required. The patient should be placed in a semi- recumbent position, and it must be made certain that the bladder is empty. In order to main- tain steady pressure on the abdomen during removal of the fluid, a many-tailed flannel band- ' age should be applied round the abdomen, so i that the tails interlace behind. It should have j an aperture cut in it, which will lie in the middle j line below the umbilicus, and it should be broad 1 enough to reach from the lower ribs to the \ symphysis. The skin should be cleansed at a point in the middle line midway between um- bilicus and symphysis, and it may be rendered anjesthetic by a spray of ethyl chloiide or by j the application of a piece of ice dipped in salt. The skin and subcutaneous tissue must be punctured with a scalpel before the trochar is inserted, and both instruments must be previ- ously sterilised by boiling. During withdrawal of the cannula the skin should be pinched up around it between finger and thumb. Having been rendered perfectly dry, the wound may be closed with a pad of lint or gauze soaked in collodion, the tails of the flannel bandage being ; finally brought round from behind and fastened | together in front. Subsequent leakage occasion- i ally occurs, especially if the fluid has been incompletely removed. This may be rectified by a second cleansing, drying, and closure of the wound. j [For recent surgical treatment, see Drummond- | MoRisoN Operation.] AsclepiOSa—J^sculapius, god of medicine. See Medicine, History of. I I AsCOba.Cteria,. — Bacteria united to- gether by thick gelatinous material. See Micro- j ORGANISMS. Micrococci similarly united are ' called Ascococci. i AsemiSi.—Loss of power of understanding \ spoken, written, or acted thoughts. Asepsis.—The condition in which septic j