136 ANEMIA, PEENICIOUS surface is small relatively to the amount of haemoglobin contained in them. Pathology.—There are several theories in regard to the causation of the disease, none of which has met with complete acceptance, and all of which present certain difficulties. (1) That the disease is a primary ancemia, a disturbance of the blood - forming function. This view came into vogue after the changes in the bone-marrow were discovered, but since similar changes have been fovmd in ansemias which are undoubtedly secondary, it has ceased to be largely held. It is possible that in a small group of cases grave or fatal ana;mia, though not exactly of the type we are consider- ing, may result from the destruction of large areas of the bone-marrow by such diseases as syphilis, typhoid, osteomyehtis, and other septic processes, and a consequent failure in htemo- genesis. Such cases, however, are certainly extremely rare. (2) l^hat the disease may arise out of an ordinary chlorotic ancemia, where the capillary walls have become degenerated, and multiple minute hsemorrhages into the organs result. This is Stockman's view, but has not met with wide acceptance, as it is difficult to understand how the blood could become so completely different in type from that in chlorosis, and how tlie undoubted evidences of blood-destruc- tion could be explained. (3) That the disease is due to the presence of toxic substances in the hlood, which cause de- struction of red corpuscles, that it is a chronic toxEemic haemolysis. This view, in one or other form, is now most commonly held, and most in accordance with the pathological facts. The evidence for hemolysis is to be found in the condition of the blood, the presence of iron- containing pigment in the liver, spleen, and kidney, and the occasional excess of uroljilin and other pigments in the urine. The seat of the blood-destruction is not in the systemic vessels, or haemoglobinuria would be much more frequent than it is, as Hunter has pointed out. It is almost certainly in the portal system, as is shown by the fact that the resulting iron is heaped up in the liver in a way unknown in any other ansemia. The spleen may be the actual seat of the destruction. The source of the toxic substances is almost universally believed to be the stomach and intestine. The frequency with which gastro- intestinal disturbances precede and accompany pernicious ansemia, the actual anatomical changes already described, the good results which often follow the washing oiit of the stomach and bowel, the fact that the aniemia resulting from the presence of bothriocephalus in the intestine is clinically indistinguishable from pernicious anaemia, and can be cured by the expulsion of the worm, the fact that indican, the result of the putrefactive decomposition of albumen in the intestine, is often found in excess | in the urine and disappears as the case improves, , and tliat putrescin and cadaverin have also been j found by Hunter in the urine,—all point to the j stomach and intestine as the places where the j toxin is absorbed. Its actual source is quite I unknown; it may be bacterial or due to some | other parasitic agency. It is difficult to say | whether the anatomical changes in the alimen- 1 tary canal are to be regarded as causing or caused by the anajmia. It is most easy to assume that the atropliy and cirrhosis precede | the anaemia, that the resulting failure of diges- tion allows the unknown cause of the disease to ' establish itself in the canal, and that the fatty degeneration of the epithelium is secondary to | the anaemia, like the fatty cliange in the heart- ! muscle and in the liver and kidney cells. It is ! of course obvious that the continued diminution in the digestion and absorption of food must interfere with the nutrition of the blood-forming , organs. ; Diagnosis.—Progressive anaemia, with lemon- ; yellow pallor, a flabby stoutness, occasional < febrile attacks, and the absence of any cause | for the condition, should always suggest per- ( nicious anaemia, but the final test is the exami- | nation of the blood. There the most important points are the reduction in number of the red corpuscles, especially if they are below 1,500,000 with a normal or increased colour-index, poikilo- cytosis with increased diameter of the red corpuscles, the presence of megaloblasts, diminu- tion in number of the leucocytes with an increased I proportion of lymphocytes. ■ The presence of retinal haemorrhages is not specially important. It is sometimes only by, watching the course of the disease and the result of treatment that a diagnosis can be made. Care must be taken that the special , prominence of individual sets of symptoms does I not mislead. The differential diagnosis from other anaemias is to be made on the following lines :— Chlorosis.—The age and sex of the patient, the course of the disease, the good effect of iron, i and in the blood the relatively small diminution ] in number of the red corpuscles while the : haemoglobin is greatly reduced, the small size of | the corpuscles, and, if erythroblasts are present, i the preponderance of normoblasts, make the diagnosis easy as a rule. Ancemia after hcernorrhage.—If this is acute, the corpuscles rarely fall below 2,000,000, if the patient survives ; if it is chronic, corpuscles may fall to 1,000,000, but the blood is then of the chlorotic type, and leucocytosis is present. Ancemia from gastric or intestinal cancer I without a discoverable tumour or other signs. —Usually the corpuscles do not fall below | 3,000,000, while the haemoglobin is much dimin- ; ished. Where the fall is greater, the anaemia , is chlorotic, and leucocytosis is usually present, | I