30 ABORTION In every instance whei-e fingers have been in the uterus, the cavity should be washed out immediately afterwards with a hot antiseptic douche, a Fritsch or Budin tube being used to allow of the free outflow of the fluid, "its effect is threefold. It washes away any clots or loose fragments of membrane that may have been left in utero; it is a prophylactic against septic development; and it stimulates the uterus to energetic contractions. The uterine contractions may be further ensured by a hypodermic injection of ergotin. The cases are very rare where it is necessary to plug the cavity of the uterus ; but it is well always to be provided with strips of iodoform gauze against this contingency. 3. Deferred Abortion. — The expression " Missed Abortion " is applied to cases where an ovum has been addled, but not expelled. Not infrequently it is when the gestation-clock strikes the usual full-time hour that the uterus wakens up to expel its long-lifeless contents. Occasionally the full term has passed some time before the patient comes to seek an explanation of her disappointment. The diagnosis may be more difficult from the occasional occurrence of a discharge of blood simulating a menstrual period. But a bimanual examination will usually show that the size of the uterus does not corre- spond with the supposed stage of pregnancy. Where doubt remains, a month may be allowed to elapse. Means should then be taken to evacuate the uterus. The prolonged retention is a continual source of danger, as at any time haemorrhage may set in, or the uterus may alternately be left in a state of sub-involutionary iiypertrophy. 4. Of Inco.mplete Abortion. — When any part of the ovum has been retained in the uterus, the abortion is said to be incomplete. If there is a history of abortion with the con- tinuance of a sanious discharge or subsequent irregular haemorrhage with the development of menorrhagia and metrorrhagia, retention of part of the ovum should be suspected. This will usually be found in the serotinal area. A malignant degeneration of the retained decidua has been described under the term Deciduoma Malignum. The diverse views enter- tained regarding it will be discussed later. The treatment consists, in the first place, of making a thorough examination bimanually, and with the sound under the influence of an anaesthetic. If the diagnosis is confirmed, the treatment is curettage. If the cervical orifice is too narrow, it should be dilated with graduated bougies or Ellinger's dilator or a tent. If the practitioner operates towards the end of a men- strual epoch, when the canal is more pervious and its walls relaxed, he will be more successful with the employment of the curette. The ex- pectant method of treatment consisting in the use of hot douches and ergot is likely to be quite unsatisfactory. 5. Op Recurrent Abortion.—A patient who has aborted should be warned against the risk of the recurrence of the accident in the event of a future pregnancy. At all the dates that would correspond to her menstrual epochs, and especi- ally at the date of the occurrence of her abor- tion, she should be careful to avoid all severe exertion, to regulate properly her food and her evacuation, and to keep absolutely at rest on the faintest indication of any tendency to abor- tion. Usually when such a patient has reached the mid-term of pregnancy without mischance, she may be encouraged to more freedom, in the expectation that all will go well through the remaining months of her gestation. Where a succession of pregnancies end abortively, and the patient is said to have the abortive habit, we are safe in concluding that she is the subject of some local or general disease. In a very large proportion of cases syphilis is to blame. For such a state of matters abstinence must be enjoined until the poison in the system of both parents is worn out or attenuated. The years of abstinence may be shortened to some months if both the partners are subjected to a systematic mercurial treatment, followed perhaps with iodide of potassium. Where in a patient who has been so treated conception again occurs, it is well to let her take mercury in tonic dose in the early part of gestation, and from at latest the mid- term onwards to let her take fifteen grains of chlorate of potash three times a day until her child is born. The administration of this salt has also been found serviceable in other cases of abortion and premature death of the foetus, where there was placental disease of non-syphilitic origin, because of its power of promoting the processes of interchange between maternal and foetal blood that go on in the placenta. If any morbid local condition exist, such as endometritis or uterine displacement, appropriate treatment should be carried out. Therapeutic Abortion This term has been fittingly applied by Pinard to the legitimate procuring of abortion by a medical practitioner, with the intention of saving a patient whose health and life are endangered by some of the concomitants of pregnancy. It is a great responsibility that a man takes upon himself when he advises and proceeds to bring about the interruption of a gestation. No wise man will undertake such an operation with- out the counsel and co-operation of a brother practitioner. The indications for and methods of procedure are described under " Labour, Operations." Medico-legal Aspects of Abortion The illegal procuring of abortion has been practised from the earliest times. It is carried out among the most diverse races in all quarters of the globe, and among all classes in a com-