446 BONE, DISEASES OF cause of persistent headache. The diffuse en- crustation on the surface of bones preserved in our museums may result from this condition. Apart from their tendency to spontaneous re- covery, they further resemble the accompanying lesions in the skin and lymphatic glands, in the rapidity with which they yield to specific treat- ment ; where they resist mercury alone, relief is obtained by the addition of potassium iodide. The Later Lesions of Acquired Syphilis.— Gummatous periostitis and osteomyelitis. Pathological Anatomy.—Like the correspond- ing lesions of the soft parts, gummatous disease of bone is characterised anatomically by the formation of embryonic or gummatous granula- tion tissue in the periosteum and marrow in the form of circumscribed masses or as a diffuse infiltration. This tissue leads to structural alterations in the bone in relation to it, of the nature of rarefaction or disappearance of the osseous tissue in the first instance and of con- densation and new formation of bone at a later period, or these two sets of changes may go on simultaneously side by side. The persistence of the disease, it may be over many years, for it has little tendency to spontaneous recovery, may lead to profound alterations in the structure and architectural arrangement of the bones afi'ected. Actual destruction and death of the bone is associated with degenerative changes in the gummatous tissue, more especially where it caseates, liquefies, breaks down, and erupts externally on the skin surface, and there is superadded pyogenic infection. The destruc- tion of bone may be in the form of molecular disintegration of the osseous tissue, so that it escapes externally in small particles mixed up with the discharge (syphilitic caries) or in the form of visible portions of bone (syphilitic necrosis). These destructive changes may affect certain parts of a bone, while the re- maining portions may be simultaneously the seat of the merely structviral alterations already referred to. The bones specially affected are the skull, septum of nose, nasal bones, palate, tibia, femur, radius, ulna. In the skull the actual separation of portions of bone as sequestra is exceptional; it may affect the outer table alone, or the entire thickness of the bone or an entire cranial bone. It may be due to the gummatous infiltration itself, en- circling the bone, and isolating it from its blood supply; it is helped by extreme sclerosis of the adjoining bone strangulating its capillary net- work, and still more by the entrance of pyogenic or septic infection from the overlying brokeia skin. The latter would appear to be the chief factor in the actiial death and separation of bone which has been encircled by gummatous granulation tissue, for, when the skin is un- broken, such isolated bone may remain inde- finitely, at any rate for years, embedded in the granulation tissue as an aseptic foreign body. If incompletely encircled by granulation tissue, even where there is superadded pyogenic infec- tion and suppuration, its separation is extremely slow, partly from the want of vascularity in the sclerosed bone round about, and partly from the density of the bone to be separated. In the septum of the nose, Tiasal hones, and palate, the gummatous granulation tissue in- filtrates the periosteum diffusely, eats into the bone with which it is in contact, softens and ulcerates on the mucous surface, and becomes complicated with pyogenic infection. The result is a crumbling away of the affected bones in particles or visible portions (sequestra) and the production of deformity. In the long bones the tibia is the one specially affected, and may be taken as the type. Circumscribed masses of gummatous granula- tion tissue in the deeper layer of the periosteum may organise and lead to the formation of a well-defined node, or a series of these may lead to an irregular nodular thickening of the bone, which at the same time will be rendered denser and heavier from proliferative changes in the bone adjacent to the gummata. Or the gumma may undergo degeneration and liquefaction, and may rupture on the skin surface and lead to similar changes to those described in the skull. A circumscribed gumma in the marrow may similarly organise and lead to formation of new bone which obliterates the medullary canal, or it may degenerate and erode the bone (like the spina ventosa of tubercle) to such a degree that it undergoes spontaneous fracture, or the shell of the bone may be perforated on one of its aspects, the gummatous tissue comes to the surface, erupts through the periosteum and finally through the skin, 'so that again there may be the same changes as those described in the skull. There may be multiple gummata scattered up and down the marrow which may individually pass through one or other, or combinations of the changes which may attend the solitary gumma. If the gumma involve the articular end of the bone it may involve the adjacent joint and give rise to syphilitic arthritis. The changes described as met with in the tibia or any long bone may persist, or may come and go over a period of years, with alternating stages of absorption, and destruction, and of new formation of bone, both outside and inside the shaft, so that finally the appearances and architectural arrangement of the bone may be profourully altered. . . . If the hone be still grow- ing, as is so commonly the case in inherited syphi- lis, the alterations in the contour, shape, and structure of the bone will be still more pro- nounced, and will persist throughout life as permanent evidences of the disease. The sabre-