ATROPHY, INFANTILE 325 abdomen emits a sickly sour-milk smell. In some cases, especially those that have suffered much from diarrhoea, the extremities are ocde- matous, the backs of the feet and hands readily pitting on pressure. Less frequently the face is oedematous ; when it occurs it is a sign of l)ad import. In these cases there is no true nephritis, the oedema being due to antemia and a failing circulation of blood. Excoriation and erythema of the buttocks are common, and so also are boils and bed-sores on the sacrum and heels. The temperature taken in the rectum is subnormal, often being as low as 95° or 96° F. ; an elevated temperature suggests a complica- tion such as septic pneumonia or tuberculosis. " Thrush is also very common. The stools vary in mniiber and consistency ; in some cases they are large in amount and consist of little else than undigested food, being pntty-like in appearance and containing little bile. They may be frequent and loose, consisting of stink- ing and decomposing food, or they are brown and slimy from the pi'esence of mucus and altered bile. In milder cases they are perhaps green and curdy. The infant's appetite is usually ravenous, it cries at the sight of food, it is appeased for a short time by the bottle, but soon the whining cry breaks out again. In the later stages it is more apathetic, and cares less about food of any sort. The course of the disease may be chronic, and there may be slight improvements, but for the most part tlie course is from bad to worse. Infants that were plump and fidl-sized at birth will perhaps fall away, so that at three or four months they will weigh only five or six pounds. At any time the atrophic infant may be carried off by some intercurrent disease. A hot July or August at once sends up the mortality of this class, death following quickly upon an attack of diarrhoea. Measles and pneumonia are responsible for some deaths. Death occurs suddenly at times, the infant perhaps being found dead in bed. ()ther cases gradually get into a more and more apathetic state, they refuse their food, finally coma supervenes, the infant lying insensilile with contracted pupils andCheyne-Stokes respiration. Muscular twitch- ings may precede the fatal event. Morbid Anatomy.—An examination of the body of an infant dying of infantile atrophy will show that all subcutaneous fat has disap- pi'arcd, the muscles are wasted and shrunken, and all the organs show a loss of weight, except jierhaps the liver, whicii in some instances is large and fatty. Hydrostatic pneumonia is not unconunon. In rare cases thrombosis of the renal veins, pulmonary arteries, and longitudinal sinus may be found. The chief interest is associated with the condition of the stomach and intestines. The walls of the stomach and intes- tines are thin and translucent, and the solitary glands and Peyer's patches have for the most part disappeared. The surface of the mucous membrane is slimy and pale in colour, though in some cases the nuicous membrane of the lower end of the ileum and colon is thickened and congested. Microscopic examination of the walls of the stomach and intestine usually shows various stages of chronic catarrh, and in the later stages atrophy of the tulnilar glands and villi ; but some observers liave failed to find any change. From tiiese findings it would appear that the condition above described is essentially a chronic gastro-intestinal catarrh passing into a later stage of atrophy of the glandular appa- ratus and villi. It is, however, right to say that some competent authorities dissent from this view, but believe that the atrophy of the intestines is only part and parcel of the general wasting and not the primary cause, and that these cases of infantile atrophy are due to con- stitutional weakness and want of vitality. Diagnosis.—As already remarked, wasting is only a question of degree, the term " infantile atrophy " or " marasnuis " being applied to the extreme form of emaciation, in which the infant may linger for weeks or more. In the most hopeless forms the emaciation is exti'eme, and the stools contain large quantities of decompos- ing food which have come through the aliment- ary canal without being digested. The cases attended by frequent vomiting are usually the most difficult to treat and the most rapidly fatal. The onset of acute diarrhoea is of bad augury. It is often difficult to distinguish between atrophy and general tuberculosis. An intermittent temperature, consonant rales in the lungs, induration felt through the abdominal walls, would necessarilj' suggest tuberculosis. Sometimes diagnosis is impossible during life, but the chances are always in favour of atrophy, especially during the first six or eight months. The diagnosis between simple atrophy and hereditary syphilis with wasting is not always easy. It must be well borne in mind that excoriations and erythema corresponding to the area covered by the napkin are no evidence of syphilis, but of course such may occur in a syphilitic infant. The tendency is to diagnose syphilis in atrophic infants without sufficient reason. C'hronic coryza, anajmia with an en- larged spleen, would necessarily strongly suggest syphilis. Coryza with excoriation at the angles of the mouth, plaques or patches of erythema on the face, trunk, or limbs, as also epiphysitis, are diagnostic. Treatment.—The most important indications consist in protection from cold and loss of heat, supplying an unlimited amount of fresh air, and a food which the infant is able to digest. The wasted infant should be wrapped in cotton-wool and dressed in woollen clothes, which must be \o6se and easily removed, so as to avoid fatigue in dressing and undressing. Artificial heat should be supplied by means of hot-water bottles