BLADDER, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF 392 seaside, or in a warm, dry climate. Local applications and iri'igation of the bladder are to be avoided, for the introduction of instruments into its interior at this stage often causes iri'itation and hastens the onset of cystitis. Later on, when cystitis and ulceration are present, relief will often be obtained from washing out the bladder (the fluid being intro- duced by hydrostatic pressure, if the passage of a catheter into the bladder is still undesirable), from injections of iodoform, or from instillation {vide " Treatment of Chronic Cystitis "). In the more advanced stage, or when this treatment fails to give relief and the symptoms are becom- ing more urgent, suprapubic cystotomy should be performed, and the ulcers either cauterised or curetted. A number of cases have recently been recorded where, as the i-esult of this treat- ment, the ulcers have cicatrised, the bladder- symptoms subsiding, and the urine also regain- ing its normal condition ; in several instances the improvement had continued several years after the performance of the operation. Ulceration of the Bladder This, as already mentioned, may occur in the course of chronic cystitis, and be due to the irritation caused by the presence of calculi, foreign bodies, etc. It may also result from the breaking down of tuberculous deposits, and is often met with in cases where a malignant growth, e.g. epithelioma, infiltrates the bladder- wall. When ulceration has taken place, pain and increased frequency in micturition, with blood in the urine, are usually prominent features, preceded or accompanied by other symptoms special to the particular condition upon which it depends. "Simple Solitary Ulcer" is the term applied by Fenwick to a form of ulcer, usually of small size and single, met with on the trigone or posterior wall of the bladder in young adults of both sexes. The early symptoms are fre- quency in micturition with intermittent attacks of hsematuria, and in the case of males an almost constant penile pain is generally a marked feature. The urine remains acid and often clear, not containing pus in any quantity. These symptoms may continue for some time, occasionally for two or three years, or even longer, but sooner or later cystitis is set up, and then the surface of the ulcer often becomes encrusted with a deposit of phosphates, portions of which break off and are either passed with the urine or retained in the bladder, increasing in size and then following definite calculi. In some cases a second, or "contact," ulcer is formed on the anterior wall of the bladder just above the urethral orifice, owing to the mucous membrane at this spot becoming abraded from contact with the rough, phosphatic surface of the basal ulcer when the viscus empties itself. Diagnosis.—The condition in the early stage is likely to be mistaken for primary tuberculosis of the bladder and also for calculus. From the former, it can only be distinguished with cer- tainty by means of the cystoscope. In the solitary ulcer, the sheen of the rest of the bladder is perfect. In tubercle, the posterior wall is seen patched with areas of vivid red, and peeling from them are white flakes of necrotic tissue (Fenwick). The absence of any family history or other evidence of tubercle, and the fact that the symptoms are not worse at night, would also be in favoin- of the presence of a solitary ulcer. Treatment.—Though benefit may be derived from injections of lactic acid (1 to 3 in 100), or nitrate of silver (1 in 1000 to 1 in 4000), their action is uncertain, and better results are obtained by curetting the ulcers, in females per urethram, in males through a perineal or suprapubic opening, this treatment being fol- lowed by their cicatrisation, and often by a permanent cure. Calculus Vesica: Calculus Vesica, or Stone in the Bladder. —Calculus may occur at any age, but is most frequently met with in children, or in adults over forty years of age, being less common during the middle period of life. It occurs more frequently in males than in females, owing to the shortness of the urethra and its power of dilatation in the latter sex, in consequence of which calculi are more readily discharged with the urine. Etiology.—The nuclei of most calculi form in the kidney, passing on into the bladder, where they increase in size by successive deposits from the urine. Less frequently, the nucleus forms in the bladder itself, as the result of immediate precipitation of some of the constituents of the urine; or the nucleus may consist of a small particle of inspissated mucus or coagulated blood, or of some foreign body introduced from without. When originating in the kidney, the nucleus usually consists of uric acid or oxalate of lime, consequently any con- dition which leads to the excessive formation in the urine of uric acid (lithiasis), or of oxalate of lime (oxaluria), acts as a predisposing cause in the formation of calculi. The fact that calculi are more frequently met with in certain countries, or in certain parts of the same country, would indicate that their formation is influenced to some extent by climate, and probably also by the nature of the drinking water. Thus in England, calculus is very prevalent in the eastern counties, especially in Norfolk, and in foreign countries, among the inhabitants of India, Arabia, and Egypt, those who dwell on the banks of the Nile being especially liable to it. A calculus, if retained in the bladder, enlarges by deposits from the urine, which, so long as the