ASEPTIC TREATMENT OF WOUNDS 297 been pickled. The tissues become covered with INSOLUBLE ALBUMINOUS COMPOUNDS, and afterwards inflame and secrete blood-stained serum. They are also rendered much less resistant to infection. Irrigation should there- fore be used in moderation. A 1 in 2000 to 1 in 4000 solution of biniodide of mercury forms no combination with the tissues, and effectually removes blood or l)its of fat. Its specific gravity is greater than normal saline solution, so that the tissue cells are not burst. Biniodide of mercury causes signs of poisoning if applied in quantity to large wounds, or if left in the chest or abdomen. Therefore, in ampu- tation of the breast or laparotomy the weak solution, 1 in 4000 or 1 in 5000, should be used. Biniodide of mercury has twice the germicidal value of sublimate, and is less poisonous. Large cavities like the abdomen ought to be irrigated thoroughly, or not at all. If the sepsis is local, it is better to trust to swabbing. There is always a danger of the irrigation fluid washing septic materials into places whence it may not be dislodged, as, for example, behind the liver in cases of perfora- tion of the stomach or duodenum. The Dressing.—When the wound has been sutured it has to be protected against infection from the air. In some regions this is a diffi- cult pi'oblem. After prolonged ana>sthesia, vomiting or coughing may lead to the entrance of air. In my own practice, violent vomiting has been an occasional cause of suppuration in the lower ends of ovariotomy wounds. After amputation of the breast, coughing, vomiting, or the movements of the arm may allow air to enter. In the root of the neck, coughing, vomiting, and movements of the head may cause the same disaster. Scrotal wounds and wounds in the groins require special precau- tions. Precautions are also required against infection by the soaking of fluids through the dressing from the i|exterior. In scrotal wounds the dressing may be wetted with urine. In wounds beneath the jaw saliva may dribble down. Moreover, blood or other fluids may soak from the wound and appear at the margin of the dressing. This constitutes a track by which bacteria speedily reach the wound. At present we are using the following dressing :— First, the skin is dusted with finely powdered crystals of iodoform. This is sterile, and should the skin by any chance contain bacteria, they cannot grow in the iodoform. Further, I have several times seen wounds exposed to view, but protected by the layer of iodoform. Finally, it prevents dermatitis, and the itching and irritation with which that is attended. Over the iodoform a layer of 5 per cent carbolic gauze, wrung out in biniodide of mercury lotion, is placed. The carbolic gauze is chosen because it is iniirritating, and can be left on until the wound is healed. It is usually removed on the eighth or tenth day. When the skin is thin or delicate, dry iodoform gauze is often applied instead of carbolic. If a gauze containing sal alembroth or sublimate, or cyanide of mercury be used, care is needed to remove the great part of the mercuric salt witli weak carbolic lotion. After the layer of carbolic gauze, a third layer of alembroth wool (blue wool) is applied. This wool contains 2 per cent of sal alembroth. Any blood or serum absorbed by it becomes strongly antiseptic, and bacteria from the exterior would penetrate with diffi- culty. It would also be some protection against fluids from the exterior. Care must be taken lest the alembroth wool touches the skin. The alembroth wool is covered over with a very large Listerian outside dressing. This consists of eight folds of carbolic gauze, together with an outside layer of waterproof jaconet. I have all outside dressings carefully cut to pattern, and provided with buckles and sti'aps. There is much scope for skill or ingenuity in the making of outside dressings. In some places they can be adjusted so well with straps and buckles that no bandages are needed, as, for example, the scrotum. Finally, the outside dressing is securely bandaged in place. In applying the bandage the operator should en- deavour to provide for equable pressure, and guard against the entrance of air. Subsequent Treatment.—Operations of any magnitude and duration are followed by shock. If this be excessive, special treatment may be needed. AVarmth, l>randy, strychnine, elevation of feet, auto-transfusion, i-ectal injections of saline solution, intravenous injections of saline solution, may have to be resorted to. The shock is followed by reaction, during which the pulse and temperature rise. Afterwards the patient has a normal pulse and temperature, and can have any light diet such as is suitable for a person lying in bed and taking no exercise. Stimulants and tobacco may be used in modera- tion. In past time the effects of septic infection were often attributed to food and alcohol. Aseptic li'ounds are jminless, but should pain be felt at the wound, or even much discomfort, or should the temperature riseor pulse accelerate, then the wound should be dressed and examined. The Subsequent Bressinr/s.—Drainage tubes are removed at the end of twenty-four or forty- eight hours. Any oozing of blood will have ceased by this time. AVhen sucli an early dressing would be attended with pain, a longer delay may be allowed. An amputation through the thigh, or a Syme's amputation, may be left until the fifth day or longer. Should, however, the dressing require to be renewed because blood or serum may have reached its edges, then the opportunity is taken to remove the drainage tube. The operation of dressing the wound requires the greatest care, and is guided by exactly the same principles as the original