ANAESTHETICS-ETHYL CHLORIDE 161 aiuestlietic agent in such short operations as tooth - drawing, opening of al)scesses, and the like, but also in an ether sequence for the major operations. Its inconveniences iive the frequent spasm of the niasseter muscle (for the prevention of which a dental prop is essential), and the rapidity with which the patient passes under its influence and out of it again, so that there is a risk of full con- sciousness being regained at a critical stage of the operation. Its chief advantages are its safety, its rapidand reliable action, its freedom fi-om cyanosis, stertor, struggling, etc., its rare association with unpleasant after-eft'ects, its cheapness, and tlie ease with which it can be administered. At the same time deaths have occurred, and Luke (TtUernat. Clinics, ser. xv. vol. iii. 214, 1905) has collected eleven fatalities (three vuider somnoform and eight under ethyl chloride). The danger would appear to be a spasm of the respiratory nuiscles, and the treatment therefore consists in the performance of artiflcial respira- tion. Ethyl chk)ride has thus far foiuid its greatest sphere of usefulness in dental surgery; and Daniell {lac. cit.) records a case in which as many as 25 teeth were removed, 6 c.c. of the drug being used, and the patient being under its influence for 205 seconds. In many opera- tions on the throat and nose, such as adenoids and tonsillotomy, it has been found useful; it is apt, however, to be immediately followed by free hicmorrhage, for which the operator must he prepared. It is excellent for short operations DU the eye, e.g. examinations, extirpation of Meibomian cysts, and cauterising corneal ulcers. Its employment in the minor operations of general surgery has already been referred to; and it has been used in gynecology for pelvic examinations and vaginal incision, etc. Anaesthesia..—Loss, complete or incom- plete, teuqjorary or permanent, of the power of sensation in any part of the body, due to disease or to injury. See Cerebellum, Affections of ; HEMiPLE(iL\ ; Hysteria {Sensory Disorders) ; Larynx, Neui!(ises of ; Leprosy ; Spinal Cord, Medical ; Spine, Surgical {Railway Spine); Syringomyelia ; Tabes Dorsalis ; and Thera- peutics, Physical. Anaesthesia Dolorosa. — Painful anjcsthesia; a condition in which there is loss of tactile sensibility in a part of the body which nevertheless continues to be painful. See Herpes. Anaesthesin.—The ethyl-ester of par- aniidoln'u/.oic arid : a local anodyne belonging to the orthoform group. It is used like cocaine for producing local antethesia by infiltration ; it is also employed in doses of 8 grains to prevent sea-sickness. VOL. I AnaeSthyi.—A mixture <jf ethyl chloride and methyl chloride; a local anaesthetic. See An/esthetics. Anag'enesiS. — The process by which parts which have been destroyed are regener- ated ; regeneration of lost parts. Anakhre.—A deformity due to exostoses growing from the malar bones and the adjacent parts of the superior maxilloe and nasal V)ones ; they form disfiguring processes which may inter- fere with vision, and they would seem to be an inherited abnormality in the natives of some parts of the West Coast of Africa (Gold Coast), who are called on this account "horned men." It has also been regarded as a sequel of yaws {q.v.). The projections do not tend to ulcerate, and may be removed by surgical means. Anal Diseases and Disorders. —See Rectum, Diseases of the. AnaiepsiS.—Recovery. An analejftic is a restorative or sti'engthening remedy or agent. Anaigfesia.—Insensibility to pain ; dis- tinguished from antesthesia or total insensibility. It occurs in connection with certain diseases {see Hysteria ; Morvan's Disease; Syringomyelia), and may l:)e produced l)y drugs {see Analgesics ; and Spine, Surgical Affections, Cocainisa- fion). Anaig^esics and Anodynes. — Analgesic remedies diminish the sensibility to pain throughout the liody generally. Anodynes may act in this way and so include the analgesic group, the general anodynes ; or relieve pain locally by action upon the termina- tions of sensory nerves, the local anodynes or anaesthetics. The latter group alone is fre- quently described nowadays by the term " anodyne." Actions.—The difference between a general anaesthetic and an analgesic lies in the fact that an antesthetic not only removes the sensation of present pain, but also abolishes sensibility to subsequent painful impressions, while an anal- gesic diminishes the acuity of the nervous sensory mechanism for the feeling of pain, especially if it be due to central causes, or to irritation of the sensory communications between the brain and the skin, but is not able to abolish the sense of pain produced by immediate injury or pressure. Local anodynes similarly soothe painful impressions already existent; local aiifesthetics absolutely negative the power of feeling pain, whatever violence be done to the area affected by them. Many of the analgesics and anodynes, if given in large doses, aft'ect the higher cerebral centres ; the majority of the synthetic analgesics act also upon the thei'mo-taxic mechanism and diminish thermo-genesis (antipyretics). 11