137 AN.EMIA, PERNICIOUS or at least the proi)ortioii of polyinorplioimclear cells is increased. Other secondary anaemias.—A cause for the anaemia can nsnally be found, and when it is severe enough to liring the red corpuscles V)elow 2,000,000 tliere is gcnendly leucocytosis. Pur- pura, lead poisoning, and chronic malaria may cause severe anjemia without leucocytosis, but the type is chloi'otic, and the history and clinical appearances are usually sufficient to keep the observer right. Ancevnia from intestinal parasites.—It is but seldom that it is necessary in this country to make this diagnosis, but in India, Egypt, and the West Indies ankylostomiasis is common, and the bothri(jcephalus is foiuid in Switzerland, Italy, on the shores of the Baltic, and elsewhere. Here the blood gives us no help. The ova of the parasites nnist be looked for in the faeces, and if the condition is suspected, a course of thymol or other anthelmintic may at the same time confirm the diagnosis and cure the anajmia. LeuQocythcemia.—It is only in children, wdiere all auicmias are apt to be accompanied by leucocytosis and enlargement of the spleen, that difficulty is likely to arise. The larger proportion of myelocytes in the blood in leuco- cythfcmia is important. Treatment.—In this, as in other antemias, the patient should l)e made to rest, physically and mentally, as much as possible, so that the work of the heart may be lightened. He should be kept in healthy and cheerful surroundings. From what has been said of the state of tiie alimentary canal, it is obvious that the feeding of the patient may be a very difficult problem. All indigestible food should be avoided. Meat is not usually well borne, and most cases do best on milk and light farinaceous foods, and it may lie necessary to predigest these. Stimu- lants are often required. Great attention should lie paid to the avoidance both of constipation and diarrhoea, and where there is any indication of luidue putrefactive decomposition viashing out the xfomarh and the intestine should l:)e tried, and often yield good results. The cnemata of water ptissilily act also liy supplying fluid to the blood, and saline solution may be injected subcutane- ously, or even intravenously, for the same purpose. With the view of making as much of the blood as possible available for the circula- tion, massage has been used. Very conflicting- opinions are held of the value of transfusion of blood. The corpuscles which are injected are soon destroyed, and hsenioglobimu-ia is often produced. The real facts of the case seem to be that transfusion of blood, when the case is getting worse, does harm ; when it is improving, and there is a great demand for fluid, it does good; and it is at this period of the disease that enemata, and the subcutaneous injection of salt solution, should l)e tried. Of drugs, hy far the most generally useful is arsenic, which was introduced liy Braniwell in the treatment of this disease. It is usually best given as fowler's solution. Some cases respond almost at once to moderate doses, others require much larger ones ; on some cases it has no effect. It is rarely necessary or advisable to give more than twenty minims three times a day, and it is most important to beware that it does not cause gastric derangement or diarrhoea. Should it seem likely to do so, the solution diluted with an equal quantity of water may be given hypo- dermically. We do not know with certainty how the drug acts, but from Stockman's recent research it seems probable that it stimulates the regenerative changes in the bone-marrow. Iron is not only useless, but often prejudicial. The only stage of the disease when it is of service is wdien the jJatient is recovering. It seems then, when given along with arsenic, to assist in corpuscle formation. On the cvu'rent theory of the disease, intestinal antiseptics shoidd be useful. Cases are on record of rapid improvement with salol, /3-naphthol, and salicylate of bismuth, and where arsenic fails it will always be well to try one of these or similar l^reparations in the fullest doses that the patient can stand. These drugs are often unsuccessful, because given in too small doses. With them large enemata should be given. The internal administration of bone-marrow has been successful in the hands of some physicians, and by others has been found quite useless. My own experience is in the latter direction. Drachm doses of a glycerine exti-act of red marrow may be given, or some of the dried preparations in the market may be used. Its effect, if it has any, can only be due to the presence of some substance in it which stimu- lates the marrow to further regenerative efforts. Patients that are apparently cured should not be lost sight of, and the relapses wdiich are almost certain to occur should be treated as early as possible. Ana.erobiOSiS.—Existence without free oxj^gen ; anaerobic bacteria are such as can live in a medium destitute of free oxygen. See Micro-Organisms. Anaesthesia and Anaesthetics. This subject will be here considered in four sections :— General Physiology of Anaesthesia . 137 Chloroform . . . . . .142 Ether . . . . . .150 Other AN.KSTiiETirs . . .156 General Physiology of Ansesthesia Intr(jductory.—Means adopted to prevent pain during surgical operations are classed as general and local anaesthetics, according as they exercise a paralysing influence upon the central or the peripheral parts of the nervous system.