192 ANGINA PECTORIS If patients are inclined to be careless it may be necessary to warn them very plainly of the risks they run, but if they are ready to take care of themselves, it is advisable to look upon their complaint in a hopeful way, and to inform them that with care they may possibly go on for years. This is all the more necessary as the depression of spirits, anxiety, and possibly even fear, which may be brought on by an unfavour- able prognosis, tend to depress the action of the lieart, and may bring about a fatal result. Treatment.—In cases of hysterical angina the administration of nitrite of amy), so useful in true angina, is of little or no use. In 1867, a few weeks after I discovered its power of relieving true angina, I tried it in a case of hysterical angina, but it gave no relief, although 1 pushed it so far as almost to produce asphyxia. More relief is afforded by hot applications to the chest, such as an india-rubber bag filled with hot water, or by carminative mixtures, such as the following :— R Tinct. valerian ammon. Spt. ammon. aroniat . . aa 3ss. Spt. chloroform . . . x. Tinct. lavand. co. . . . ]\ xx. Spt. vin. rect. . . . ad. 3ij- M. ft. hst. S.—To be taken in a wine-glassful of hot water, when the spasm is severe. During the intervals inquiries should be care- fully made regarding any source of mental disquietude, and it should be removed if pos- sible. The patient's attention should be directed as much as possible away from herself and engaged in working for others. Food should be plain and simple, but moderate exercise and plenty fresh air should be enjoined. In cases of toxic angina complete abstinence from the toxic agent, tobacco, tea, or alcohol, must be insisted upon, as even a small quantity may keep up the condition. In cases of true angina one of the first requisites in the treatment is first to insist strongly upon the necessity of avoiding any sudden exertion on the part of the patient. I have already mentioned that if a patient is able to continue exercise in spite of pain, the pain passes off after a time, and the exercise may be proceeded with without discomfort. Whatever the patient does should be commenced very gently. When he begins to walk he should do so very slowly indeed, and gradually quicken his pace as he goes on. He should not attempt anything likely to strain him, such as lifting or strapping a portmanteau and such-like exertion, and, above all, he should never hurry to catch a train or omnibus. These rules apply at all times of the day, but they are even more neces- sary after a meal, and it is advisable to let the patient lie quiet half an hour after a meal. before undertaking any exertion at all. If exercise be sufficiently gentle not to bring on the pain it is of advantage to the patient, ! because it tends to maintain the sti'ength of the heart, and to increase the nutrition of the body generally as well as the arteries in particular. i During an attack the best way of cutting short ; the difficulty of breathing and the pain is to let the patient inhale some nitrite of amyl. This may be done either from a bottle containing the : drug in bulk, or from a glass capsule containing five minims, which is broken when required. | Hot applications should also be put to the \ hands and to the feet. Nitro-glycerine or, as it is more conveniently called, trinitrin, is more .;. convenient than nitrite of amyl and acts almost i as well. The patient should keep in his waist- ■' coat pocket a small box or bottle containing the ,] tablets, and as soon as the pain comes on should | begin to nibble one. If the pain be acute, he i should break it up quickly in his mouth and j swallow the whole. If the pain is not ver}' ' acute, he may take only a part of one, instead ] of a whole tablet. Nitro-erythrol is another | drug which has a somewhat similar but more j permanent action, so that half a grain of it may | be given three times a day with great advantage \ as a prophylactic. This substance, whose full \ name is tetra-nitro-erythrol or tetra-nitro-ery- * thrine, is sometimes called for shortness tetra- nitrin. It is most readily given in the form of tablets made up with chocolate in the same way j as tablets of trinitrin. Each tablet usually con- tains half a grain of tetranitrin. In some cases where the pain is very excessive, and where it does not yield to the nitrites, a hypodermic injection of a third or half a grain of morphia may be given. ] The drug which of all others is the best for j removing the cause of the attacks of angina .| pectoris is iodide of potassium, and this may be ' given in doses varying from five to fifteen grains three times a day. A good plan is to give it > for ten days or a fortnight at a time, leave it off and then begin again. When given intermit- i tingly in this way it may be continued for ■ months, or even years. In gouty patients the i tension may be lowered by the administration ] of twenty grains of nitrate of potash along with ; thirty of bicarbonate of potash or soda in a large j soda-water-tumblerful of water every morning l on rising. The nitrate tends to dilate the i vessels like the nitrites, but it acts more slowly j and more persistently. [In a recent article {Brit. Med. Journ. i. for 1906, p. 301), W. Russell has endeavoured to \ establish a relationship between angina pectoris j and an arterio-cardiac reflex having its origin in ) the abdomen. There is a beneficent normal i arterial reflex by which the circulation in the abdomen is adapted to the processes of ingestion and digestion of food. High feeding, however, , and alcoholic liquors exaggerate it and cause a