BRAIN, SURGERY OF 512 distension of the ventricles and subarachnoidal space with an excess of cerebro-spinal fluid. In other cases general compression may occur as a complication or sequela of local compression. By the term " local compression " is meant a direct localised pressure on some part of the brain itself, frequently the result of injury, and characterised by symptoms usually associated with coma. The term " cerebral compression" should be restricted to this latter variety. Increased intracranial and intraspinal pressure due to such causes as hydrocephalus, meningitis, or tumours, will be discussed under these head- ings. Here we are chiefly concerned with the common form of compression due to injury. The usual causes of compression after injiu-y are— 1. Iniiammation of the brain or membranes, frequently the result of septic infection. 2. Intracranial haemorrhage. 3. Depressed portions of the skull (rare). The symptoms of compression vary very much with different degrees of pressure, and according to the exact locality in the brain to which pres- sure is applied. Thus we find all degrees, from slight headache or drowsiness to profound coma, resulting from different intensity of pressure; while, as regards locality of lesion, pressure on the frontal lobes may give little sign, while pressure on the motor area of the brain will cause paralysis in the corresponding group of muscles. The temperature is usually subnormal, often reaching as low as 95° F. to 96° F. This is a most reliable and valuable sign of general com- pression of the brain, but it must be borne in mind that in the later stages of a bad case the temperature may become very high, and death may occur with the temperature at 106° F., or even higher. If the compression be general the temperature on both sides of the body is equal; if the pres- sure affect one hemisphere of the brain only, there will usually be a rise of temperature of about one degree Fahrenheit on the side of the body opposite to the compressed hemisphere. Here, again, in very bad cases the rule may be reversed, and the temperature be lowered, instead of raised, upon the side of the body opposite the lesion. The pulse is slow, full, and deliberate in an ordinary case. After a while, from exhaustion of inhibitory centres, it may become fast, weak, and irregular. This is a bad sign. The respiration is, in moderate cases, slow, deep, and regular. In severer cases it becomes irregular, stertorous (owing to paralysis of the soft palate), and accompanied by puffing out of the cheeks and lips (due to paralysis of the facial muscles). In still worse cases the respirations become of the Cheyne-Stokes' type. Stoppage of the respiration is the immediate cause of death in cases of compression. Nervous Symptoms.—In many cases at first the patient complains simply of headache, and this is due, apparently, to stretching of the dura mater. This headache tends to get worse, and to be succeeded by drowsiness. This im- portant symptom, in its turn, becomes more pronounced, and eventually complete coma may gradually supervene. Neuralgia, for example, of the branches of the fifth nerve, may result from pressure, while paralysis of the muscles supplied by the sixth, seventh, or other cranial nerves may occur from the same cause. Motor paralysis may occur, either affecting a single group of muscles in cases of strictly localised brain pressure on the motor area, or as a hemiplegia, beginning on that side of the body opposite to the brain lesion, and tending to become general as the pressure spreads. Convulsions may happen in groups of muscles if the corresponding centres in the brain be very suddenly compressed. Where the compression comes on gradually convulsions are not met with, but paralysis ensues. Even in those cases of sudden compression, where convulsions do occur, they soon give place to paralysis in the affected muscles. The Eyes.—The pupils first contract, and then dilate and become insensitive to light. If the pressure on the two sides of the brain be equal, then both pupils contract and dilate at the same pace; if the pressure on the brain be unilateral, then the pupil of the eye on the same side as the lesion will go through the above changes of contraction and subsequent dilatation at a quicker rate than will the other pupil. An ophthalmoscopic examination of the eye will often disclose choked disc, while from pres- sure on the cavernous sinus the veins at the back of the orbit may become so engorged as to cause a considerable amount of exophthalmos. The reflexes are gradually lost as compression becomes worse. The bladder is paralysed, so there is retention of urine imtil the bladder gets quite full, when overflow takes place, and the water dribbles away. The sphincter ani is paralysed, but as the rectum is not interfered with there may be un- conscious evacuation of faeces. Diagnosis.—If symptoms of compression come on immediately on receipt of an injury, they are probably due to a depressed fracture pressing directly on the brain. This condition is quite exceptional. If the symptoms come on during the first few hours after injury, the most probable cause is haemorrhage, usually from a branch of the middle meningeal artery. If the symptoms are delayed in their appear- ance for several days, the compression is probably