ARSENIC 259 is of great value as a digestive tonic in cases of atonic dyspepsia or during convalescence. It causes an increased flow of blood to the stomach and upper part of the intestine. It is best to start with small doses—aliout gr. arsenious acid or its e(|uivalent—on account of the tendency of larger doses to cause sickness and diarrhoea ; and it should be taken after food, so that it may be diluted by the contents of tiie stomach. For its remote effects arsenic is given empirically in a great variety of diseases, it is useful in many chronic superficial skin diseases, particularly those of the dry and scaly order such as psoriasis and chronic eczema. It is also of undoubted value in some blood diseases, more especially in pernicious ansemia and splenic leucocythaemia. For these condi- tions it should be given in large doses, and to avoid alimentary disturbance it is well to inject it intranuiscularly, say 15 m. of Fowler's solu- tion once daily. The value of arsenic in chorea has been much disputed of late years. Some refer to it as a specific, while others state that any benefit derived is due to the general tonic effect of the drug. Children tolerate it remark- ably well, and full doses may be given to a child of 5 or 6 years. It is of service in asthma in the form of cigarettes, either alone or mixed with belladonna, stramonium, and potassium nitrate. It is an excellent cardiac tonic, particularly when combined with other drugs. It is specially reconnnended in cases of pnecordial pain associated with functional de- rangements of the heart, but it is also useful in patients subject to true angina. In cases of old-standing malaria, when quinine has no effect, arsenic is indicated, particularly if the patient is anfemic or cachectic. Lastly, a course of arsenic is said to be very efficacious in those who are subject to recurring colds affecting the nnse, throat, larynx, and trachea. Arterial Pressure. See Physiology {Cireuldtion). Arteries, Diseases of. AuTEiuEs ...... 259 Structure and Function . . . 259 Classification of Diseases . . . 259 Atheroma and Endarteritis. Defornmns 260 Obliterative Endarteritis . . . 260 Acute Aortitis and Acute Arteritis . 261 Arteriosclerosis .... 261 Calcification of Middle Coat . . 26.3 Fatty Der/eneration of Intima, . . 263 Clinical Significance of Arterial Changes ...... 263 Arterial Change in definite Nervous Diseases ...... 264 Arteriai. Hypertonus . . . .264 See also Aneurysm ; Aorta, Thoracic ; Ai'iiASiA ; Brain, Physiology of ; Brain, Sur- gery of ; Embolism ; Heart, Physiology of ; Meninges of the Cerebrum ; Physiology ; Pulse ; Syphilis ; Toxicology (Erf/otism) ; Typhoid Fever ; etc. Structure and Functions op Arteries.— Arteries jjossess three coats, which are known as the tunica intima, tunica media, and tunica adventitia. The first of these consists of a pavement endothelium, with a very thin line f)f subendothelial connective tissue external to it. The tunica media, known also as the muscular coat, is composed of involuntary muscle fibres in the medium and smaller sized arteries; while in the aorta and its larger bi'anches this coat is made up largely of elastic fibres. The tunica adventitia, or external coat, is composed of fibrous tissue, and in it are present the vasa vasorum, lymphatics, and nerves. Between the internal and middle coats there is often a lamina of elastic tissue known as the internal elastic lamina; and in some arteries a corresponding- structure is present between the middle and external coats, and is named the external elastic lamina. The arteries are the channels along which the blood is carried from the heart and distributed to the different tissues and organs of the bod3^ They constitute a system of elastic tubes, while at the same time their walls can contract and dilate under the influence of the nervous system, or of conditions present in the blood itself. This latter power they possess in virtue of the muscle tissue in their walls; and the condition of the muscle when in physiological action is known as tone or tonicity —the same term as is applied to voluntary muscle under like circumstances. Variations in Tone err Tonicity.—Variations in tone are due to a number of causes. Mental emotion may lead, on the one hand, to contrac- tion of arterioles and capillaries, and thus to pallor of the surface; while, on the other hand, other mental emotions may lead to relaxation of vessels, and a corresponding flushing or red- ness of the surface. Similar effects can be produced by drugs, by poisons, or toxines, either metallic, vegetable, or bacterial, and by the i-etained waste products of cell and tissue metabolism. AVhcn there is a lowering of tone the vessels dilate, and, on the other hand, an increase of tone leads to contraction f)f the vessels; and to this latter condition the term hypertonus has been applied, while the contrary condition is known as relaxation or loss of tone. From this it is evident that the calibre of the same arteries must vary according to the influences acting upon them at different times, and this variation can be measured by finding the diameter of the vessel by means of Oliver's arteriometer. Classification of Diseases of Arteries Atheroma and endarteritis deformans. Obliterative endarteritis (syphilitic and non- syphilitic).