4 ABDOMEN, CLINICAL INVESTIGATION OF In this way the condition of the pelvic organs, the lower lumbar vertebrae, the glands, and any masses in the abdominal cavity below the level of the umbilicus, can be investigated, and in the youngest child as well as in the adult. The following conditions, amongst others, may be felt in different cases:—tubercular masses or baTids in the iliac fossae, or stretching across the abdomen ; cancerous masses ; enlargement of the lymphatic glands; inflammatory thickening about the vermiform appendix, or in connection with the lower portions of the small intestine ; thickening of the vesiculce seminales, which would suggest the tubercular nature of an otherwise obscure case. Examination2)er vaginam—with the finger only, and bimanually—is also of service in the investigation of disease affecting the female generative organs and neighbouring parts. In the examination of the uterus and bladder, special instruments, as the sound and catiietei', are sometimes required. Mensuration.—This is used to determine the girth of the abdomen, and thus any alterations in its size, as in cases of ascites, may be recorded from time to time. In certain cases it is desir- able to measure the distance of the umbilicus from the ensiform cartilage, the symphysis pubis, or the iliac spines. Percussion.—This method is serviceable in mapping out the size of the liver or spleen, and in obtaining the height to which the stomach note is obtained in the left hypochondrium, as well as the height to which a distended bladder rises above the pubes. As regards the note obtained by percussion over the alimentary canal, this will obviously vary greatly at different times in relation to its contents and to the tension of its walls. The note over the transverse colon is commonly higher in pitch than that over the stomach, but if the latter contains but little gas, while the colon is distended with it, it may be impossible to define the greater curvature which forms the line of separation between the two organs. Ausctdtation of the abdominal organs is com- paratively of little value. Swallowing or gur- gling sounds may be heard over the stomach ; friction sounds over the liver and spleen from peritonitis ; a systolic murmur over the aorta in cases of abdominal aneurysm; and the foetal heart sounds or murmurs over the gravid uterus. The method of combined percussion and auscul- tation is useful in defining, in doubtful cases, the lower border of the stomach, and of differen- tiating the neighbouring intestine. The physical and chemical characters of vomited matters, of the urine and faeces, of fluids obtained by exploratory puncture, together with the results to be obtained by a bacterio- logical examination, will be considered in subse- quent ai-ticles. It is sufficient in this place to emphasise the value of such examinations as aids to diagnosis. Abdomen, Injuries of. Classification ..... 4 1. Contusion ..... 4 General Considerations (Anato- mical AND Physiological) Common Causes of Injury Nature of the Lesion Modifying Circumstances Causes of Death Means of Protection Influence of Ner-vous System Symptoms and Diagnosis . . 5 Prognosis ..... 7 Treatment ..... 8 After-treatment .... 9 2. Wounds 9 (a) Non-penetrating . . .10 General Considerations Treatment {b) Penetrating . . . .10 General Considerations Symptoms Diagnosis Prognosis Treatment After-treatment 3. Traumatic Peritonitis . . .13 Etiology Classification {a) Localised Traumatic Peritonitis {b) Diffuse Traumatic Peritonitis 1. Contusion of the Abdomen General Considerations (Anatomical and Physiological).—The importance of injuries of the abdomen consists mainly in their liability to produce simultaneous or consequent damage to the viscera or the peritoneum, resulting in death from shock, haemorrhage, or peritonitis. Fortunately about sixty-five per cent of abdo- minal injuries are not associated with any inter- nal lesion. Of the remainder, about fifteen per cent make a good recovery after slight injury to the viscei'a, as suggested by evidences of peritonitis; and only about twenty per cent are complicated by distinct symptoms of serious intra-abdominal mischief. Common Causes of Injury.—Speaking gener- ally, the superficial injuries are associated with slighter degrees of force, such as direct blows, kicks, spent bullets, or moderate crushing; and the more serious injuries are usually produced by some severe crush, such as occurs in the passage of a heavy waggon over the abdomen, and in " buffer-accidents," or by a violent and localised blow, as from the kick of a horse. Many cases are, however, on record where a comparatively small amount of force has i"e- sulted in rupture of one or more of the viscera; and in no case can external appearances be relied upon as a guide to the extent of intei'ual mis- chief.