BALNEOLOGY 357 are also strong cold sulpluiretted and muriated springs with similar baths. Holland and Belgium Indifferent Thermal Water. — Chaudfon- TAiNB, near Liege, temperature 96° F. Chalybeate Waters. — Spa, 1000, in the Ardennes, a cold sparkling carbonated water, gaseous chalybeate, douche, and moor baths. At Haarlem (Holland) there is a cold muriated chalybeate water. Switzerland Indifferent Thermal Waters. — Ragatz- Pfabfers, 1700, a subthermal (98"6° F.) water rich in nitrogen gas, used for ordinary and pro- longed baths. Loeche-les-Bains (Leuk), Ji.^WO. The temperature of the waters I'anges from 102° to 124°. Baths of several hours' duration are taken, in "piscinfe" and otherwise, at tempera- tures of 93° to 95°. Muriated Waters. — Rheinfelden, about 850, has a nearly saturated brine, used for immersion baths and douches. The brines of ScHWEizERHALLB and Bex are somewhat similar. Alkaline Waters. — Passugg (near Chur), 2710, possesses an acidulous alkaline spring similar to the " Grande Grille " at Vichy. At Tarasf - ScHULS (Canton Grisons), 3890, the water is also alkaline and effervescing, and con- tains sulphate as well as bicarbonate of sodium. There are, moreover, alkaline chalybeate waters and gaseous and mud baths. Chalybeate Waters. — The waters of St. MoRiTZ in the Upper Engadine, 5800, are weakly chalybeate and effervescing, and used internally and for baths. Aoquabossa (Canton Ticino), 1150, has a warm chalybeate spring. That of San Bernardino (Grisons), 5380, is cold and gaseous. Sulphur Waters.—Baden (Canton Aargau), 1230, has a weak thermal sulphur water at 118° F. ScHiNZNACH in the same Canton, II4O, possesses a very strong subthermal sulphur water (82' to 95° F.) Prolonged and ordinary baths and inhalations are used. Lavey and Yverdon (Canton Vaud) yield weak thermal waters of the same class. Lenk (Canton Bern), 3600, has a cold and strong sulphuretted water used for drinking and pulverisation; and a similar water is met with at Gurnigel, 3780, in the same Canton. Calcareous Water.—Thsxt of Weissenburg (Canton of Bern), 2828, has a temperature of 79° F., and contains a small quantity of sulphate of calcium and magnesium. Austria Indifferent Thermal Waters. —■ Gastein, 3310, is one of the highest baths in Europe and a typical member of its class. The waters range in temperature from 78° to 121° F. Teplitz (Bohemia), 730, has a slightly alkaline thermal water (temperature 83° to 114° F.), and peat baths. JoHANNiSBAD, 2300, temperature 85° F. Muriated Waters.—At Ischl, 1500, there is a strong brine with weaker waters for internal use, and moor and other baths. Herculesbad (in Hungary) possesses a thermal muriated water. Alkaline Waters.—There is a strong and gaseous alkaline water at Bilin in Bohemia. That of Gleichenburg (Styria), 930, is a very similar water, but contains chloride of sodium. Karlsbad (in Bohemia), 1230, has sources of thermal water (from 95° to 162° F.), which are both alkaline and sulphated, with bicarbonate and sulphate of sodium. These celebrated springs are much used internally, and moor, thermal, douche, vapour, and other baths are also employed. At the neighbour spa, Marien- bad, 2000, there are similar but cold waters, as well as chalybeate springs, and peat, chalybeate, and gaseous baths. Fbanzensbad, also in Bohemia, 1500, possesses cold effervescing springs of the same class, as well as chalybeates. This spa is also the home of the peat or moor bath, which is employed both locally and generally. Sulphated Waters.—Hungary is rich in these "bitter waters." Franz - Joseph, Hunyadi- Janos, Apenta, and ^sculap are rich in sul- phates of magnesium and sodium. Pullna and Sbxdlitz, in Bohemia, are weaker waters of the same class, the latter containing no sodium salts. Chalybeate and Arsenical Waters. — See Alkaline Waters—Franzensbad and Marienbad. Ratzes and Mitterbad, in the Austrian Tyrol, 3-4000, have sulphate of iron springs, and Levico and Roncegno in the same region yield strong ferruginous waters containing arsenious acid, which are used at the source and for exportation. Italy Indifferent Thermal Waters.—The thermal sources of Italy are very numerous, and were many of them used by the Romans. Bormio (N. Italy), 4500, 91° to 105° F., and Battaglia (Province of Venice), 1900, are indifferent waters. The latter has sweating grottoes of natural vapour and mud baths. Monsummano has also a natural vapour bath. Muriated Waters.— Abano (Padua), 100, has hot (100° to 183° F.) muriated waters and mud baths. Salsomaggiorb (Parma), 520, yields a cold muriated water and a carbonated chaly- beate. Montbcatini (Lucca), 920, is described as one of the first balneary stations in Italy. The waters are subthermal and weakly muriated. Chalybeate and Arsenical Waters.—The hot spring at Pisciarelli (near Pozzuoli) contains svilphate of iron, and Ceresole Reale (Pied- mont), 5290, has carbonated iron waters with arseniate of sodium. Muriated Alkaline Waters.—At Pozzuoli