ALCOHOLISM 97 the patient is too comatose to struggle. The operation should be performed slowly. There- after, administer a purge and induce diiu-esis and diaphoresis. Give a large enema if there is no collapse. Then put the patient to sleep in a large room with plenty of fresh air. The rousing treatment usually practised in opium narcosis is not indicated, but the patient should be aroused if the respirations become very slow. In all narcosis sleep is useful, even if it has to be very frequently interrupted. Some cases manifest shock, which must be diagnosed and treated as distinct from acute narcosis. Mania a Potu [Inwiediate Maniacal Alcohol- ism), Alcoholic Insanity, and Delirium Tre- mens {Delirious Alcoholism) often occur at a comparatively early stage of alcoholism. Each of them, however, implies a greater or less degree of general alcoholic disorder. They are treated under the above names in their alpha- betical place in this work. It is sufficient to say here that these affections constitute dis- proportionate impairments of certain nervous mechanisms, in such a degree as to conceal the general alcoholism, and in each of them an interruption of the general disease is implied. In Alcoholic Insanity disorders of the attention are in excess—some kind of impairment of the psychical functions of the brain. In Mania a Potu the disease is deeper. Attention is per- vei'ted, and then is added an acute disturbance of excess in the mechanisms of purposive (voluntary) movements. In Delirium Tremens there is a disturbance of excess on a still lower level — in mechanisms which have not a great voluntary relation—which is evidenced by fever, tremors, and great sensory disturbance ; while there is also a perverted attention. Chronic Alcoholism {Alcoholism Proper).— If the excessive drinker survive these various incidents in the career of drunkenness, or if, as is more usual, he escapes them, he will by degrees develop symptoms of a gradual dissolu- tion or reduction of nervous function analogous to the progressive disability of intoxication. Enough has been said to suggest that a Typical Alcoholism is rare : in fact it does not occur, because alcoholic drinks are not constant, and because human brains are not typical. Apart from those acute states which have been noted and wiiich are to be regarded as mere incidents, alcoholism is very manifold. Its varied nature, in so far as it depends upon the personal equation, need not be considered at length. Granted that alcoholism is a reduction of faculty, it is to be expected that these impairments will occur irregularly, because no two people develop alike. There is one kind of mental defect which is (juite constant, however, although patients mani- fest it variably—the defect of volition, to which reference must so insistently be made. The next most common effects are as regards meniory and as regards belief; and, less commonly, the vol. I feeling of the patient may be altered so that he is either exalted or depressed in moods which have no reference to his circumstances. These mental reductions, it will be noted, are such as charac- terise the chief forms of Alcoholic Insanity. We only call such states insanity when they are disproportionate in degree and excessive in dura- tion. In a usual course, for example, delusions do not persist in an alcoholic, because of a progressive dementia which jjrevents his think- ing out a delusion. The same progressiveness characterises the invasion of all the mental functions by alcoholic disease. Excess of activ- ity in the lower functions of intelligence gives place to a gradual impairment of them, and a disproportionate defect of any one of them, such as occurs in the amnesic form of Alcoholic Insanity, becomes lost in a total defect of mind. And so in a further stage of Chronic Alcoholism the reduction of mental function is seen to be very considerable and veiy general. The patient then has almost no will, no desire, not even an initiative towards drink ; no emotion or senti- ment, not even regret, much less any hope; no apparent memory, no expressed thought. By this time there is a very obvious impairment of the lower realms also. Following the inverse order of evolution the reduction is first manifest in the most highly differentiated co-ordinations. For example, skilful manipulations of all kinds are impaired, and if the patient be a technical artist his art will obviously suffer in technique as well as in idea. The incoordination in nearly every case will become manifest in an impair- ment of such fine movements as handwriting, shaving, buttoning, and refined articulation. At the same time, impairments in delicacy of sensation occur, but these are more difficult of detection. At all events, it is certain that there is no evidence of i-efined sensations, no sign that the patient notices refinements of sound, of colour and form, of taste, smell, touch, and temperature. But it is not easy to say whether he is absolutely not aware of these things, or whether he only cannot respond to them ap- propriately. While this expressional and sensational disability is progressing, secondary symptoms occur, of which, on the one hand, tremors are the most notable, so marked some- times as to greatly simulate General Paralysis, and, on the other hand, parresthesias, which become ilkisions, and those apparently automatic activities which we call hallucinations. But these also disappear in time as the lesion deepens. Still later the patient is yet more deeply paralysed. Not only has he lost refinement of co-ordination, but there is an actual loss of muscular strength and a disability even in gross movements. At this stage the muscles generally are flaccid, as, for example, in the face, which is flat and expressionless. The hands and arms are flabby, the grasp weak, the step devoid of