V a 2 INTRODUCTION An Encyclopedia is " an elaborate and exhaustive repertory of information on all the branches of some particular art or department of knowledge." This is the exact and sufficient definition of the word which is to be found in the pages of the New English Dictionary, itself so conspicuous an example of an elaborate and exhaustive repertory of information on all English words. It may be added that the articles in an Encyclopedia are generally arranged in alphabetical order for rapidity of consultation and ease of reference. An Encyclopedia of Medicine is nothing less than a series of volumes, containing extensive information on all the subdivisions of medical and surgical theory and practice ; it must be large enough, thei'efore, to embrace a wide range of subjects presented in a complete and elaborate fashion; but it must, at the same time, possess some of the characters of a compendious abridgment of all knowledge on these matters, for life is short and the quiet hours of it (for the physician and surgeon at least) so few. To combine completeness with correctness and conciseness, to be full without being diffuse, to be succinct without being imperfect, and to show throughout a certain degree of literary grace,—these are the essential characters of the ideal Encyclopedia of Medicine and of its contained articles. Moreover, tlie information within its several volumes must be readily accessible to the busy medical man ; he must be able to put his finger on the fact that he wants with the least amount of delay. Cross-references, therefore, are permissible; but to be of value they must always lead to paragraphs or articles containing new matter. A Dictionarji is not an Encyclopedia ; it is simply an alphabetical index of words or a vocabulary, contained, witli few exceptions, within the boards of a single volume. It is essentially a word-book ; and it supplies definitions of words ratlier than articles upon them. A Medical Dictionary is, therefore, in the strict sense of the term, nothing more than a list of definitions of medical and surgical words arranged alphabetically; but it is not uncommon to meet with works in which the definitions are conjoined with brief articles upon the subjects with which they deal, and these more extensive compilations have sometimes been distinguished as Dictio7iaries of Medicine. In the present work the attempt has been made to combine tlie advantages of the Encyclopedia of Medicine with those of the Medical Dictionary. On the one hand, the reader will find the elaborate articles which met with sucli ready acceptance on their appearance in the Eiicyclo'pa:dia Medica (1899-1903-4),—they have been incorporated