BEAIN, SURGERY OF 517 multiple, and for this reason some surgeons are averse to operation. This is not, in most cases, a sufficient reason for refusing to operate. Intra- cranial pressure is relieved, and absorption of other tubercidous deposits may be stimulated by the operation. In all cases where there is the smallest possi- bility of the tumour being syphilitic, large doses of iodide of potash (20 or 30 grains thrice daily) should be given for two or three months before deciding to operate. Mercury may also be exhibited. Two points must, however, be re- membered : firstly, that while a gumma may be improved by antisyphilitic treatment up to a certain point, a cicatri.x may be left which may cause epilepsy and demand treatment l)y opera- tion ; secondly, that, as we find elsewhere in the body, other tumours, malignant ones among the number, are often considerably improved for a time, and up to a certain point, by iodide of potash. When once the surgeon has determined that the case is an operable one no unnecessary delay is permissible. Spreading (udema may occur at any time, and in other ways irreparable damage be done to the brain if the tumour be allowed to grow. In cases which are doubtfully operable an exploratory operation may be justifiably recom- mended. Not only may the tumour wlicn ex- posed prove more favourable than was indicated by the symptoms, but the removal of intra- cranial pressure is of the greatest value to the patient by relieving pain, re1;arding optic neuritis, prolonging life, and in some cases bringing about the absorption of tuberculous tumours. And it must be remembered that the medicinal treat- ment of cerebral tmnours, except in the case of syphilis, is practically useless. In cases of inoperable tumour, bromide of potassium, morphia, the application of ice to the head, and counter-irritants to the back of the neck may be used as palliatives. For full details regarding the removal of cerebral tmnours, see p. 508. Intracraniaij Inflammation Inflammation of the brain and meninges may happen either as the result of injury, or may spread inwards from inflammation of exteriial parts, such as disease of the cranial bones, erysipelas of the scalp, etc. It is always due to organismal causes. In those cases which follow injury there is usually an open wound through which the organisms gain entrance ; V)ut men- ingitis may occur without any visible external wound, as the result of a bruise, the organisms in this case cither being transmitted through the superficial bruised parts to the meninges, or finding their way there by the blood-vessels supplying tlie part. The inflammatory processes are of different degrees of intensity ; thus the meningitis may be acute, chronic, or subacute. Probably many of those cases which simulate meningitis, and come on very quickly without any palpable external wound, are due to spread- ing cedema. When organisms are introduced directly by a wound of the brain or meninges, the symptoms come on quickly, that is, from three to six days after the injiuy; where they are introduced indirectly, two or three weeks, or more, may pass before active inflammation is set up. The chief indirect channels through which organisms gain entrance to the meninges are : (a) by the venous system—the emissary veins may become thrombosed and organisms may invade the clot and eventually reach the membranes; (b) by the lymphatics; (c) by metastasis, as in pyaemia; the organisms circu- lating in the blood-stream and being deposited in the part devitalised by the inj^iry. The position of intracranial inflammation, like that of intracranial haemorrhage, may be sub- cranial, subdviral, or cerebral. In the subcranial division there is usually a localised pachymeningitis, or an abscess may form between the skull and dura mater; in the sul)dural form we find leptomeningitis or inflam- mation of the soft membranes of the brain ; this form may be acute or chronic, limited or diffuse ; while as a result of injury we meet with cerebral abscess and infective thrombosis of the venous sinuses. It is necessary shortly to discuss these different forms. 1. Subcranial or Extradural Inflammation. —(«) Simple pachymenincjitis, or inflammation of the external surface of the dura mater, is usually localised. It may result from a severe blow on the head, with or without fracture of the skull. The dura is separated from the bone over a limited area, and effusion is poured out into this cavity, but is prevented from spreading to any distance by the adhesion of the dura to the skull. The chief importance of localised pachymeningitis consists in the fact that it may cause adhesions between the dura and subjacent cortex, and by so doing cause traumatic epilepsy or persistent headache. If this condition is suspected by the persistence of headache or local pain, blisters should be applied over the painful area ; and should these fail to relieve the pain, or if epileptiform symptoixis appeal", the bone should be trephined (&ee " Tramnatic Epilepsy," p. 522). (V) Subcranial Abscess.—This is usually the result of a compoimd or punctured fracture of tlie skull, the dura mater being not cut through, but merely separated from the bone. Thus, a cavity forms which fills with blood-clot, and organisms attacking this sensitive medium are apt to set up suppiiration. Subcranial abscess is also frequently caused by inflammation spreading from suppurative otitis media, the roof of the tympanic cavity