AMPUTATIONS 128 diately below the deltoid there will be less danger of pressure of the bone upon the cicatrix if external and internal flaps are made use of than if they are interior and posterior. Amputation at the Shoulder-Joint.—Here the same method may be adopted as described for amputation at the hip. The patient is laid on his side with a bandage along the outer aspect of his shoulder, and a rubber tube is passed round the arm as high up as possible. The bandage is given to an assistant to hold. The surgeon now makes a sweep round the limb at the level of the upper third of the humerus, divides the bone, ties the vessels, and then, having made an incision from the coracoid pro- cess downwards, dissects out the head of the bone. This is practically Spence's method, modified as regards the way in which it is done. The objection to it is the same as the objection to such an amputation at the hip-joint in cases of malignant disease : too much muscle is left. The difference between the operation at the shoulder and that at the hip is this: In the latter the drainage is from the vertical part; in the former the vertical part is united completely, and drainage is made from the lower circular part. In cases of malignant tumour anterior and posterior flaps may be used, beginning at the acromion process. After making skin flaps the deltoid and the muscles attached to the tuberosities are divided. The assistant grasps the vessels which are then divided. Amputation of the Shoulder Girdle This is an operation which is sometimes re- quired for malignant disease afffecting the scapula where removal of the scapula alone is insuffi- cient. A portion of the clavicle has usually to be taken away along with the arm and the scapula. The chief difficulty in the operation is haemorrhage. For this the skewer may be of value. An incision is made through the skin in the posterior triangle of the neck, just in front of the anterior end of the insertion of the trape- zius. The skewer is passed down behind the clavicle between the scapula and the chest wall, and brought out in the axilla. The elastic tubing, in the form of a figure-of-eight, is applied in front. This compresses all the vessels, and there is little trouble from haemorrhage during the operation. Another method which I have adopted is as follows : Divide the clavicle and tie the subclavian artery. Then make anterior and posterior skin flaps, and freely remove all the disease. Amputations, Intra-Uterine. See Pregnancy, Intra-Uterine Diseases. Amyeiia.—Absence of the spinal cord, met with in the advanced degrees of rhachis- chisis (spina bifida); when associated with absence of the brain the monstrosity is called amyelencephaly. Amygfdaia.—From the sweet or Jordan almond {Amygdala dulcis) is obtained almond oil (Oleum Amygdalae), which is contained in the Linimentum Ammonise, the Oleum Phos- phoratum, the Unguentum Cetacei, and the Unguentum Aquse Rosae. The Oleum Amyg- dalae can also be got from the bitter almond {Amygdala amara). There are two preparations of the sweet almond: the Pulvis Amygdale Compositus (dose, 60 to 120 grains), and the Mistura Amygdalae (dose, to 1 fl. oz.); the former is a basis for powders and the latter is used as a vehicle for suspending insoluble drugs. Sweet almond flour and biscuits made from it are much used in the treatment of diabetes. See Invalid Feeding {Diabetes). AmygfClalin.—Amygdalin is a glucoside obtained both from bitter almonds {Frunus amygdalus) and from Virginian prune bark {Prunus serotina). From it, by distillation with water, prussic acid and the essential oil of bitter almonds (the non-official Oleum Amygdalae Amarae) are got; the latter is used for flavouring. Amygdalitis.—Tonsillitis. See Tonsils, Diseases of. Amy I Colloid.—A non-official prepara- tion containing amyl hydride, aconitina, vera- trina, and collodion; it is painted on the skin in cases of neuralgia, etc., and produces a local anaesthetic effect (due to the aconite and vera- trine). Amyl Nitrite. — Amyl Nitris, which consists chiefly but not entirely of isoamyl nitrite, is nearly always given by inhalation {e.g. by the breaking of a glass capsule containing from 2 to 5 m. of the drug) from a handkerchief. It causes dilatation of the peripheral blood- vessels, and produces flushing of the face, in- creased and violent action of the heart, giddi- ness, and headache. It is used in cases of angina pectoris as well as in other forms of cardiac pain, in epilepsy (during the aura), in tetanus, in asthma, in neuralgia, in strychnine and cocaine poisoning, in chloroform syncope, and for some of the nervous phenomena of the menopause. See Angina Pectoris ; and Con- vulsions, Infantile. Amyloid Disease. See Lardaceous Degeneration. AmylolysiS.—The conversion of starch into sugar. Amylopsin.—An enzyme, in the pan- creatic secretion, which converts maltose into dextrose. See Physiology. AmyOSthenia.—Want of muscular power. See Hysteria {Motoi- Disturbances). Amyotrophia.—Muscular atrophy. See Paralysis.