ASTHMA 316 may, by pressure, cause vagus irritation and true asthma. Mediastinal tumours and aneurysm of the aorta cause at times paroxysmal dyspnoea, but the concomitant symptoms will usually prevent this being mistaken for asthma. The diagnosis of bronchitis with dyspnoeic attacks from asthma complicated with bronchitis and emphysema is more difficult. Nocturnal exacerbations of bronchitic dyspnoea are not uncommon, and at a late period of asthma the symptoms of bronchitis and emphysema may be very pronounced in the inter-paroxysmal periods. Moreover, it is probable that such disturbances in the peripheral nerves of the bronchial mucous membrane may be induced by the changes con- sequent on chronic bronchitis, that a condition leading to genviine asthmatic attacks may be induced. The history of the ailment is to some extent a guide to the diagnosis. If in the early stage there has been paroxysmal dyspnoea without indications of lung or heart disease, the nature of the case cannot be doubted, even though later on bronchitic symptoms are pro- minent. When such history is wanting, and the attacks have supervened on prolonged bron- chitis, the diagnosis may be doubtful in some cases where the dyspnosa attacks are slight and bronchitis much in evidence. The nature of the expectoration may aid in the discrimination between asthma and ailments simulating it. If the sputum contains spirals with a central band or Leyden's crystals, with cylindi'ical epithelium and a considerable quantity of eosinophile cells, the presence of true asthma is probable, even though, as before stated, all the various sub- stances have been found present in the sputum in other ailments. Treatment : (a) Preventive.—For the cure of asthma the removal of certain conditions on which it depends is the first point to be aimed at. It is at times possible to annul the peri- pheral irritation which causes the ailment, either by acting on the area where the peripheral nerves are unduly sensitive, or by abolishing or lessening the strength of the irritant which acts on the area. It is perhaps possible, too, to cure asthma by decreasing that form of general ex- citability of the nervous system on which it seems that asthma at times depends. The mucous membrane of the nose and bronchi require careful attention. Voltolini recorded a case in which the removal of a nasal polypus was followed by a cessation of asthma, which recurred when the polypus again appeared, and cases have been published since then in which the cure of an irritable condition of the mucous membrane over the middle turbinated bone, or removal of the bone itself, has led to the cessa- tion of asthmatic attacks. A careful examina- tion of the nasal mucous membrane and the septum should be made in cases of asthma, with the view to the removal of any abnormal condi- tion. Even if any condition of importance be present, it is impossible to predict that any beneficial result will follow its appropriate treat- ment. M'Bride has pointed out that those cases where the application of a probe to a localised sensitive area in the nasal mucous membrane induces cough as a reflex, oflPer a more hopeful prognosis as to the result of local treatment. This subject will be further considered under "Hay Fever." The state of the bronchi, too, often requires attention. Though asthma may exist apart from manifest changes in the bronchial mucous membrane, yet whatsoever evilly influences the condition of this membrane, tends not only to the increase of the violence of the paroxysms, but also to the continuance of the ailment, and everything which improves its condition tends to cure asthma. Hence catarrhs must be avoided by due care with regard to exjjosure to cold by warm clothing, etc., and bronchitis must be lessened, where possible, by expectorants and other forms of medicinal treatment into which I need not here enter. The inhalation of specially irritating sub- stances, whether it be the pollen of grass, dust, or smoke, must be avoided as far as possible, and careful inquiries should be made in every case for undiscovered idiosyncrasies. Many yeai's of suffering have been caused owing to the fact that the influence of an emanation from an animal or from a plant has in some the power of causing asthma, and the possibility of an idiosyncrasy of this kind should always be remembered. A suitable climate must -be sought for the sufferer from asthma. As is well known, there is no one place which is specially suitable for asth- matics. Some find the sea air suits them best, some can only live comfortably in the country, some like a dry air, others are only well when it is moist. The suitable place for each asthmatic patient can only be selected by trial. It is somewhat remarkable that the air of London is very commonly found advantageous. Almost every place on the coast of England has been found at one time or other beneficial to asthma- tics, and almost every place has been found detrimental to individual cases. The same thing is true of continental places. I have known patients who have found their asthma absolutely cvu-ed by a residence at Les Avants, and others who were scarcely able to breathe there. Irritation of the gastro-intestinal tract must be dealt with, and diet should be carefully attended to. The presence of indigestible sub- stances in the stomach will in many ensure a severe asthmatic paroxysm, and a loaded rectum may have the same effect. A useful rule is to take small meals of one course only, the mixture of meat food with farinaceous food or articles of diet containing much sugar is often injurious. The time at which food is given requires special