Xll LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS PAOE Artificial Limbs : Ankle—Leg—Thigh ....... 283 Forearm—Upper Arm ......... 284 Bandages : Reverse—Figure-of-eight—Spica—Breast—Capelline—Stump . . . .361 Bladder, Injuries of: Hair-pin coated with a deposit of Phosphates, removerl from a Female Bladder, where it had heen present for about six weeks .... 39,3 Phosphatic Calculus from a Female Bladder, containing a hair-pin as its nucleus . 393 Oxalate of Lime Calculus, showing a tuV)erculated surface, coated in places with a layer of Phosphates. Projecting from one end of the calculus is a piece of glass rod. From a male, aged 28 years . . . . . . .393 Section of a Calculus containing a double nucleus of Oxalate of Lime. The body consists of alternating layers of uric acid and oxalate of lime, and there is a thick crust or extreme layer composed of phosphates. From a male .... 393 Oxalate of Lime Calculus with an unusually spiculated surface. From a male, aged 52 years . . . . ' . . . . . . 393 Blindness : The Braille Aljjhabct and some Contractions ..... 407 Normal Blood: Film preparation fixed by heat; stained with 2 per cent watery eosin for ten minutes; washed and stained with Ldffler's methylene-blue for twenty to thirty seconds; washed, dried, and mounted in Canada balsam. Magnified 1000 diameters. (Coloured) ......... Facinr/ 412 Brachial Plexus : Motor distribution of Cervical and first Dorsal Nerves . . . 4-57 Front of tapper Limli showing sensory distril)ution of Cervical and two upper Dorsal Nerves (apvd Kocher) ........ 4.57 Back of LTpper Limb showing sensoi-y distrilintioii of Cervical and two upper Dorsal Nerves (apud Kocher) ........ 4.57 Brain, Physiology of: Outer surface of Left Cerebral Hemisphere, showing tlie lobes, fissures, and convolutions ........ 461 Median aspect of Left Cerebral Hemisphere, sh(jwing the fissures and main convolutions, also the centres for smell, for vision, and colour vision .... 462 The distribution of the five branches of the ^liddlc Cerebral Artery . . . 462 Outer surface of Left Hemisphere indicating the " motor" and "sensory" areas . 464 Horizontal section of Left Hemisphere of the J>raiu of a Monkey to show the excitable area of the internal capsule (C. F. Beevor, Diseases of Nerinms System) . . . 465 Scheme showing the distribution of the Fillet ...... 466 Diagram of the constituents of the Inferior Peduncle of the Cerel)ellum, indicating the connection of tliose derived from the spinal cord with the middle or vermiform lobe of the cerebellum, and the connection of the inferior olive with tlie nucleus dentatus 466 Diagram of the Optic Nerve, sliowing the relation of the cortical half-vision centre in the occipital lobe, with the corresponding lialves of both retinse and the opposite halves of the field of vision ......... 467 Scheme to show the course of the fibi-es which subserve the light reflex . . . 468 Diagram of the segments of the Tliird Nerve and their functions . . . 469 To show how the nucleus of the Sixth Nerve acts as the centre for conjugate deviation of both eyes to the same side, iind also its connections with the auditory nuclei . 469 Diagram of the central paths for hearing. Shows the channels by which auditory im- pressions reach both hearing centres in the cerebral cortex .... 470 Diagram indicating the connections of the Nucleus of Deiters. On the one hand with the semicircular canals and middle lobe of the cerebellum, and on the other with the tliird and sixth nuclei, and with the anterior cornua of the spinal cord . .471 Diagram showing the origin of the Hypoglossal and Vago-(Jlossopharyngcal Nerves . 471 Brain, Surgery of: Diagram to indicate methods for finding the position of the Fissure of Rolando (FR), the Fissure of Sylvius (SL), tlic Parieto-Occipital Fissure, and the line of attachment of the Tentorium Cercbelli to the inside of the Skull . . . 503 Diagram to show Chienc's metlujd for determining the pf)sition of the anterior branch of the Middle Meningeal .Vrtcry ....... 504 Diagram sliowing relation of i>r;iin to the fissures of the Skull, and to the Middle Meningeal Artery .......... 505 Method of operating by bone flap ....... 507 The completed skin incision, with the four trephine openings in tlie Skull, joined by saw cuts ........... 507 The flap of bone and adherent .soft parts turned down . . . . . 508