329 AUDITORY NERVE AND LABYRINTH described. The suppression of one or more of the semicircular canals has very slight and only transitory effect on the equilibrium, but irrita- tion of one or more of them is accompanied by the greatest disturbance. Post-mortem examina- tions of deaf-mutes show that in a large percent- age the semicircular canals are obliterated, and the only effect noted is that, as a class, deaf-mutes I are somewhat more ungainly in their progres- sion than other people, and enjoy immunity from giddiness when subjected to rotation. On the whole, the canals prohahly co-operate with the other fiensory mechanimn» concerned in the maintenance of equilibrium^ viz. sight, muscle-sense, and the varying pressure of the fluids in the body ; they add to the delicacy of the sense of position, but are probably not essential to it. Their value is perhaps more than counterbalanced by the disturbing effect of even very slight irritations, so that changes of pressure or variations in vascularity may pro- duce severe vertigo. The various causes of vertigo will be found fully discussed under "Vertigo." It may, how- ever, be here noted that Sir William Gowers attributes at least 90 per cent of all cases of definite vertigo to aural disturbance, the re- mainder being of gastric, arterio - sclerotic, epileptic, organic cerebral, or simply " essential " nature. Vertigo from aural disease is chiefly characterised by its definiteness (not a mere confusion, but a marked sense of movement of self or surrounding objects in a definite plane), by the compai'ative absence of loss of conscious- ness (distinguishing it from epilepsy), by its persistence in spite of closure of the eyes (unlike ocular vertigo), and above all by the concomitant defect of hearing. In the most pronounced apoplectiform cases the cause of the vertigo and the deafness is an effusion into the labyrinth, but in a very large number of even considerable severity the vertigo is due to irritation of the vestibular nerve-endings, produced by uncom- plicated disease of the middle, or even the external ear. Neurasthenic hyperjesthesia of the vestibular nerve may contribute to the pro- duction of vertigo. It is generally held that tlie rotation or sense of rotation is towards the affected ear, but to this rule the writer's ex- ])erience offers many exceptions. The Diagnosis of Disease of the Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth. — Nerve-Deafness in General.—Disturbances of hearing and of equi- librium are the functional indications of the greatest significance, but it is the former which is the most eminently characteristic and ini- l)ortant for localising purposes. (liven dulness of hearing, we have to explain it by disease of tiie auditory nervous apparatus, of the conduct- ing apparatus, or of both combined. The tuning-fork tests above described, if well marked and intellisi'ently interpreted, will gener- ally guide us to a diagnosis, thus :— Increase of bone-conduction, with negative Rinne and positive AVcber, indicates an affection of the conducting ajiparatua. Decrease of bone- conduction, with positive Rinne and negative Weber, indicates an affection of the auditory nei've mechanism. Decrease of V)one-conduction, with negative Rinne, especially if bilateral, indicates a disease of the conducting and nervous apparatus in combination. It will be obvious that confusion must often arise from the interference of the oj^posite, per- haps normal or dift'erently affected ear, and from the coincidence of disease of the conducting apparatus. It is impossible to give rules to meet every eventuality, but the following state- ments may be fairly depended on :— " Positive Rinne" may be accepted as ex- cluding any considerable degree of obstructive disease, and any such degree of deafness must in its presence be due to a nerve affection. " Negative Weber" in unilateral deafness indicates nerve-deafness (even if accompanied by " negative Rinne "). The following cautions will also aid :— " Negative Rinne " is common in unilateral nerve - deafness, the bone - conduction being apparently good because the vibrations are con- veyed by the bone to the opposite ear. (It has to be checked by Wel)er's test.) In cases of obstructive—catarrhal—deafness in one ear, with sympathetic nerve-deafness (not an uncommon occurrence) in the other, the increased bone-conduction in the former makes the negative Rinne in the latter all the more pronounced. (It can only be checked by the comparative decrease—or al)sence of increase— of bone-conduction, by the loss of hearing for high rather than low tones, and b}' the sequence of events in the case.) Further evidence that the condition is an affection of the internal auditory appai'atus may be derived from the following symptoms :— The hearing being vjorse in the midst of a noise instead of better, as in most cases of chi'onic bilateral affections of the middle ear. Incorrect Iwaring for tones, in so far as notes may be heard a tone or moi'e higher or lower than as heard by the normal ear, the wrong tone not being necessarily a harmonic of the true one. A single tone may therefoi'e be heard in double (diplacnsis), correctly bj' the health}' ear and incorrectly by the diseased one. The loss of hearing is usually ww^st for high tones (in middle-ear disease it is worst for the lower ones), but there may be actual gaps in the range of hearing. The subjective Aloises—tinnit>is aurium—pro- duced by disease of the internal auditory-nerve apparatus vary so as to have very little dia- gnostic value. A noise checked by compression of the vertebral arteries in the suboccipital hollows is strongly characteristic of labyrinthine congestion. It is thought that sounds of