420 BLOOD, PHYSIOLOGY AND CLINICAL INVESTIGATION OF a number of squares as possible—not less than 48. The average number in each square repre- sents, therefore, the number of red blood cor- puscles in 4oVo c-iuiii- of blood diluted 1 in 200, so the calculation of the nimiber in a cubic millimetre of imdiluted blood is easily arrived at. Instead of diluting the blood to this degree, one can get a dilution of 1 in 100 in the bulb by taking blood up to the 1 c.mm. mai'k, and then drawing up the diluting fluid to 101. Different diluting fluids are employed, as good a one as any being that of Hayem :— Hydrarg. perchlor. . . 0"5 gms. Sod. sulphate . . . 5-0 ,, Sod. chloride . . . 1"0 ,, Aq. dest 200 c.c. For the emimeratio7i of the white cells the blood must not be diluted to the same extent, so another pipette which allows of a 1 in 10 or 1 in 20 dilution is employed. The fluid used to dilute is preferably one that will dissolve the reds and at the same time stain the nuclei of the whites. Such a fluid is a ^ per cent watery acetic acid solution, to whicli ;i little methyl violet has been added. In enumeration of the leucocytes, all tlie squares ought to be counted. Oliver's apparatus for enumeration of the corpuscles cannot be recommended, as it is by no means so reliable as the Thoma-Zeiss instru- ment. B. Special I. Examination of the Fresh Blood Pre- paration.—A drop of freshly drawn blood is placed on a cover-glass that has been slightly warmed, the latter then being gently lowered on the slide lying on the warm stage of a micro- scope. It is well to ring the cover-glass with vaseline. Staining reagents, such as neutral red, may be introduced, and the resultant changes noticed microscopically. These fresh films are mainly of use in allowing one to study the amosboid activity of the leucocytes, the rouleaux formation of the reds, the changes in the blood x>lojtes, and the rate of clotting. It is also advisable to examine the blood after diluting with normal saline, or with such pre- serving fluids as Hayem's or Pacini's solution. All work on dry films should be supplemented by examination of fresh ones. II. Fixation and Staining of Blood Films. —Most valuable results have been obtained from the examination of stained blood films. Much of our present knowledge of the different groups of leucocytes and the degenerative changes in the erythrocytes has been obtained from their study. The first essential is to have suitable cover- glasses which have been properly cleaned. These should be square, not more than O'l mm. thick and flexible. They are best cleaned by boiling in a strong HgSO^ solution of potassium bichrom- ate (60 grammes potassium bichromate made up to litre with 60 grammes H^SO^ in water) for half to one hour, the acid poured off, and the remainder of the fluid removed by first boiling with water and then washing for a long time under the tap. They are then washed with distilled water, and then with absolute alcohol. They must on no account be touched with a cloth after this ; if necessary, pass them through the Bunsen flame before use. They are kept in a stoppered glass vessel, and may be picked out with forceps when required. The best forceps to use for the purpose of taking the films are those recommended Ehrlich—one for fixing the lower cover-glass, and the other, a finely pointed one, for the upper glass. The latter is brought down gently on the top of the drop of blood, care being taken not to get too large a drop, and it is then quickly lowered over the lower cover-glass, which is held by means of the other pair of forceps in the left hand. The blood spreads out evenly, and when this has occurred, the upper glass is quickly drawn across the lower fixed one, care being taken to avoid, as far as possible, pressing or raising the cover- glass that is being moved. The films are then either allowed to dry in the air, or they may be fixed while moist in saturated corrosive sublimate solution, or by some other fixative such as osmic acid. Here I can only shortly run over the principal methods employed for fixation. The films which have been dried in the air may be fixed by Ehrlich's method, viz. placing the cover-glasses in a drying oven kept at a temperature of 110°-120°. The time during which they are exposed to this temperature varies according to the stain used. With Ehrlich's triacid solution or any of the watery stains only five to ten minutes are required, while for glycerine eosin solutions or for the eosin aurantia and indulin glycerine stain a period of from one to two hours is preferable. When special attention is going to be paid to the granules, the films ought to be put into the oven at 110°-120° C. from the outset, because one wishes to avoid as far as possible coagulative changes such as occur if the temperature be slowly raised from say 80° up to 120°. It is the rapid removal of water that is important. This method of fixation has certain great advan- tages. It disturbs as little as possible the chemical characters of the gi'anules, and it preserves the htemoglobin. For the finer structure of the nuclei and cytoplasm (spongioplasm) it is not so good as some of the methods to be described later. But in order to obtain a clear blood picture which will afford information as to the different types of leucocytes and the condition of the red cells, this method is essential. The films which have been dried in the air may be fixed by other agents, e.g. equal parts of