374 BEZOAR Bezoa.r.—A concretion, consisting of lime, hair, or gall-stones, found in the intestines, stomach, or gall-bladder of some of the lower animals; formerly regarded as a sovereign remedy for the plague, etc. Bha.ng'. See Cannabis Indica. Bial'S Test.—The test for pentose in the urine. See Urine, Pathological Changes in {Sugars). Bia,rritz. See Therapeutics, Health Re- sorts {French). Biceps Tendon. See Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries ; Tendon-Jerks. Bichat, Pad of. See Mouth, Diseases of {Cheeks, Lipomata). Bichromate of Potassium. See Dermatitis Traumatica et Venenata ; Trades, Dangerous {Bichromate Compounds). Bicycles. See Labour ; Injuries to the Generative Organs {Perineum, Rupture of). Bidactyiy. — The " lobster - claw " de- formity ; absence of all the digits but two, usually the first and the fifth. Bidder's Gang^lion. See Physiology {Circulation, Intra-Cardiac Nervous Mechanism). Bidet.—A vessel on a low stand, used for bathing the external genitals or anus; the patient sits astride it. Bier's iVIethod. — The treatment of diseases {e.g. suppurative inflammations) of joints and bones (whitlows, osteomyelitis, etc.) by artificially induced venous congestion, e.g. by elastic compression, hot air, etc. The pain is soothed; acute are transformed into cold abscesses; the absorption of cold abscesses is hastened; and the course of whitlow, acute osteomyelitis, and joint - suppuration is cut short. See Immunity {Increase of Natural Re- sistance to Bacteria) ; Joints, Diseases of {Tuberculous); Knee-Joint, Injuries op. Biernacki's Ulnar Sig^n. —Absence of tingling in the fingers when the idnar nerve is compressed. See Tabes Dorsalis. BigrelOW'S Lig^ament. See Hip- Joint, Injuries {Dislocation). Big^eminal Pulse. See Heart, Myo- cardium and Endocardium {Pulse in Mitral Stenosis); Pulse {Pulsus higeminus). "Big Jaw." See Actinomycosis {His- tory). Bile and Biliousness. See also Ab- domen, Injuries {Gall - Bladder) ; Appendix Vermiformis {Appendicitis, Diagnosis); Audi- tory Nerve and Labyrinth {Meniere's Disease, Diagnosis); Digestion and Metabolism {Bile); FiECES {Chemical Examination); Fel Bovinum ; Gall-Bladdbr and Bile Ducts, Diseases of ; Gout {Alimentary System); Immunity {Anti- toxic bile of snakes); Jaundice ; Liver, Physi- ology OP; Liver, Diseases of ; Liver, Conges- tion ; Liver, Parasites {Hydatids); Pancreas, Diseases OF {Diagnosis); Physiology; Pigments of the Body and Excreta ; Spasm {Bile-Ducts); Snake-Bites {Bile, Protective); Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Sea-side Biliousness); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Bile-Pigment and Acids). — The ancients placed bile upon an exalted pedestal. They ascribed to it various properties and powers exercised over the bodily processes. In the Vedas the Hindu poets de- scribe pitta or bile as digesting the food in the stomach, and as able to purge the bowel,—the latter opinion according closely to modern teach- ing. Galen credited the spleen with the func- tion of secreting black, the liver of forming yellow, bile. Black bile combined the elements of warmth and dryness, yellow bile of cold and dryness; the hot intemperament (our bilious habit) accompanied excess of bile formation, the cold intemperament indicated lack of bile, or the formation of yellow bile alone. Black bile was responsible for melancholia, although, if yellow bile was converted into the black variety, mania resulted. Even as recently as in Cullen's day, the bile was supposed to possess properties derived from the presence in it of humours formed by the liver. An account of the physiology of the bile- secreting and bile-expelling mechanisms will be found in the article " Liver." Biliousness.—Popularly, biliousness denotes a condition of the body wherein too much bile is secreted by the liver, and too little expelled from the bowel. Medically, the term is only a refuge in time of perplexity, or a help when a vague explanation seems advisable. A " bilious attack," so called, is almost invariably the re- sult of some acute catarrhal condition of the gastric or duodenal mucous membrane, the frequent presence of bile in the vomited matter in such cases arising from reversed peristaltic movements of the duodenal muscular coat, which in turn are induced by the inflamed state of the mucous lining, aided by the irritation and excitement following upon violent emetic efforts. The "bilious" headache, so commonly spoken of, may be due to nervous storms, as in hemicrania, or migraine, auto-intoxication from the absorption of poisonous products from the bowel, or may be a premonition of an impend- ing jaundice from various causes, which may or may not be removed before actual jaundice results, but which does not lie so much in any excess of bile formed by the liver as in some bar to its access to the bowel. When the func-