171 ANEURYSM As to the two deaths among the popUteal cases, that from suppuration in the knee should not have occurred ; that from gangrene should probably count only as a case of gangrene, not as one of death. If this is the fair way of re- garding the statistics, it must be admitted that in a series of thirty-five cases, grave beyond the average, one case of gangrene directly due to the operation, one of small slough on the foot, and one of small blue spot on each side of two toes, do not constitute a serious indictment of the treatment employed. These were all in popliteal cases. Results of Incision.—Walsham gives 7 otlier cases—2 carotid, 2 ilio-femoral, 3 common femoral—treated by incision of the sac, ligature above and below, and plugging. All recovered well: one of the femoral cases had a sharp secondary bleeding. Wound of the vein is the most likely accident in these operations, and is best avoided by care, and by leaving a strip of sac adherent to it. It was wounded 10 or 11 times in the above 42 cases, and, although the results do not seem to have been so serioiis as some would have antici- pated, it is certainly not a thing to be careless about. No ill followed in the subclavian (1) and femoral (2) cases ; but of 7 popliteal cases, 3 showed gangrene or some tendency to it, as above noted. Delbet contrasts excision and ligature. Using only his modern figures (1888 to 1895), we have 109 cases of ligature of great vessels, 86 of excision of the sac (doubtless including many arterial hscmatomata). The results are :— Jlortality. Ri-CMivrence. Gangrene. After-results. Ligature, 8-33% .5% 8-25% Often im- perfect. Excibion, 0-00% 0 2-77% Good. Against excision it may fairly be urged that the operation is a good deal more difficult than the corresponding ligature ; that it takes a much longer time, and is a decidedly more serious operation for the patient. For excision it is claimed—(1) that in spite of its seriousness and extent it is actually a much safer operation. (2) That there can be no recurrence. (3) That the chance of gangrene is nuich reduced, because, instead of introducing another obstruction into the circulation of the part, as ligatiu-e does, excision removes (unless the vein is injured) an important obstruction both to veins and to collateral arteries, as is shown by the frequent appearance of pulsation in the tibials within fourteen days of an excision. (4) Tliat it re- moves also a source of embolism and a focus from which thrombosis may spread widely. (5) That removal of the sac rids the patient of the possibility of many after troubles, such as hampering of a joint by a mass of encapsuled fil)rin; pain, anEcsthesia, paralysis, and trophic clianges due to pressiu-e on nerves or involve- ment of them in tiie slirinking capsule. (6) That the patient is sooner fit for work. Theoretically these claims appear to be justified. The statistics available—insuflicient as yet — bear them out. It seems probable, therefore, that the operations of excision and incision of the sac will be used more and more in the future. Meanwhile, other methods of treatment, easier from the practical point of view, give fair results. Excision can always be done in case of recurrence after other methods, and usually when the after- result is unsatisfactory ; it is too late, however, when gangrene has ensued. It must be borne in mind that it is in the more diflicult cases of large and diffused aneurysms that excision, rather than ligature, is so essential to save life and limb. Ligature.—A ligature may be applied on the proximal or distal side of an aneurysm. Ligature close above the sac is the operation of Anel; at some distance above the sac, no large branch intervening, it is Hunter's operation ; if below the sac, no branch intervening, it is Brasdor's; if branches intervene, it is Wardrop's. In tying an artery for aneurysm we should try to produce stagnation of blood in the sac, in the hope that, being kept at rest in contact with an abnormal surface, it will coagulate, not only in the sac ljut in the artery whence it springs. To this end, the nearer the thread is placed to the aneurysm the better; for when an obstruction arises in the main triuik, the branches rising above it and neighbouring vessels dilate and convey blood past the obstniction into the main trunk again Iselow the oltstruction, and thus a stream of blood sufficiently swift to prevent clotting may be kept up through the sac. Ligature even immediately above the sac will not ensure complete quiescence if branches arise from the sac, and under some other circimi- stances. For a long time it was believed that the object of ligature was to reduce (not stop) the flow through the sac, so as to favour the formation of firm white laminated clot; but cure of an aneurysm after ligature usually takes place too quickly to allow of the deposit of laminated filjrin. Inflammation does not result from rapid coagulation of blood in a sac. Up to 1785 popliteal anemysm was treated by amputation, or by incision of the sac. The results of the latter were most disastrous under the then conditions; and having recently lost a case, John Hunter asked himself, " Why not tie it up higher in the sound parts, where it is tied in amputation, and preserve the limb ?" Hunter operated in Hunter's canal in five cases, with four recoveries. Similar success was achieved l)y others, and this and the relative ease of the operation caused it to become rapidly established. Scarpa shifted the seat of election to a higher and still more accessible point, noting that no branch of import- ance arose between.