ATR, EXAMINATION OF 78 tating effects on the mucous membranes are due to its oxidising properties. Schonbein, in 1840, first drew attention to this gas. In nature its most important source is atmospheric electricity. The evaporation of water is also a source; hence it is abundant in the air over the great oceans and on the sea- coast, especially during the prevalence of winds which have swept over these oceans. At high altitudes, and, according to some observers, in the neighbourhood of pine forests, it is increased in amount. It is hardly ever found in the atmosphere of cities. According to Houzeau, it is never found in greater quantity than 1 part in 700,000 parts of air. In the park at Mont- souris, Paris, the mean of sixteen years' obser- vations (1877- 1892) is 0-014 milligram per 1000 litres air. The Committee of the Scottish Meteorological Society, appointed to investigate the best methods of estimating ozone, state that it was never present in the air of the Botanic Garden when the wind blew from the direction of the sewage meadows near Edinburgh. The same observers were struck with the exhilarating effects of breathing air when ozone was markedly present, and even, from their sensations, could predict when their experiments would prove its presence. Ozone was long considered as a cause of influenza, but in Dr. Parson's report to the Local Government Board on the epidemic of 1889-90 there is nothing to support this view. The usual methods of estimating ozone are very imperfect. They are based on its power of liberating iodine from iodide of potassium, the amount of which is estimated either by the formation of the blue iodide of starch, or the depth of the brown tint of iodine, or the alkaline reaction on litmus paper of the caustic potash produced. Papers soaked in solution of iodide of potassium, with or without the addition of solution of starch, are least reliable. Papers dipped in a wine-red solution of litmus, and then for a third of their extent in a solution of iodide of potassium, as used by Houzeau, give better results. For accurate quantitative determination, probably the best method is that of aspirating the air through a solution of arsenite of potas- sium, and then determining the amount of ozone from the amount of arseniate of potassium pro- duced. This is the method used in Paris. Carbonic Acid.—Carbonic acid is a constant constituent of the atmosphere. It is present in small quantity; but, unlike the oxygen and nitrogen, its amount is liable to considerable variation. Much attention has been directed to its quantitative estimation, both by the physicist and the hygienist; indeed, it is chiefly to the simple and accurate methods devised by Petten- kofer of Munich that we must attribute the great extension of this line of investigation. Since carbonic acid is the final product of the oxidation of the carbonaceous part of organic matter, its amount and variations in the atmo- sphere of a locality have been taken as a measure of the amount of such decomposition going on in that locality ; that is to say, its sanitary con- dition. Again, since the air of occupied rooms differs from outside air in having, among other things, more carbonic acid, the amount of this gas present in such rooms is used as a measure of their ventilation. The chief sources of the carbonic acid in the atmosphere are animal respiration, combustion of fuel, etc., decomposition of animal and vege- table matter, whether at the surface of the earth or in the soil, and volcanic and other allied phenomena. The oxidation of the organic matters (organised and unorganised) in the atmosphere itself is also not an inconsiderable source. Along with this continuous production there is a continual removal of it from the atmosphere. The means of this removal have been variously explained. Saiissure attributed it to the power possessed by the chlorophyll of plants, when acted upon by light, of decom- posing the carbonic acid, fixing the carbon, and restoring the oxygen to the atmosphere. This certainly is a very important means, but obvi- ously cannot be operative during a considerable part of the year. According to Schulze, the sea plays a very important part as a regulator, when the cai'bonic acid attains a certain pres- sure (that is, a certain quantity) in the atmo- sphere over the sea it converts the suspended carbonates of lime and magnesia in the water into soluble bicarbonates, which are in turn re- converted into carbonates with elimination of carbonic acid, when the pressure of this gas is reduced in the atmosphere. The role that the soil plays, both as a source and regulator of the carbonic acid, has been pointed out by Fodor. He considers that the upper layer of the soil is the chief regulator. According as the gas is in greater or less amount in the atmosphere, the wetted surface soil either absorbs it from, or restores it to it. The amount of carbonic acid in the atmo- sphere has been variously stated. The earlier researches of Dalton, Saussure, and Boussingault, which are now regarded as rather high, and the later work in this country and on the Continent, give 3 to 3-5 parts per 10,000 as the average. The following are the means of daily observa- tions at the places mentioned, in parts per 10,000: — Paris. Biida-Pesth. Edinburgh. 3-26 3-88 3-52 In the streets of towns the amount is greater. The following has been foimd: — Edinburgh, 4-18; Dundee, 3-90; Glasgow, 4-61; Man- chester, 4'42. The seasonal variation in the amount was first pointed out by Fodor as a result of three years' daily observations. He found the maxi- mum in autumn and early winter, and the