ARTERIES, DISEASES OF 261 thickening is progressive, and leads first to diminution in the calibre of the affected part, and finally to complete occlusion of the vessel. These changes occur in limited areas in the course of the arteries, and do not, as a rule, affect extensive and continuous tracts of thcni. The thickening of the intima is fairly equal right round the affected part of the vessel, so that the condition presents this second ana- tomical point to distinguish it from atheroma. When this form of endarteritis occurs in the large and medium sized arteries of the brain it is probably without exception syphilitic ; and it may be an acute process showing cellular infil- tration of the tunica media and adventitia, as well as of the thickened intima. A corresponding endarteritic thickening occurs in the small, nutrient arteries of the brain, but in some instances, at least, it differs anatomically in showing the tunica media to be atrophied or entirely destroyed. This is also proliably syphilitic in origin. While in the brain endarteritis obliterans may be taken as indicative of the causative factor named, it is, up to this time, not sug- gested that corresponding anatomical changes in the arteries in other organs have always this determining cause. In pulmonary cirrhosis, for example, obliterative endarteritis is found in the cirrhosed lung, while in the kidney the con- dition is frequently pi-esent. In the kidneys the changes in the arteries may, as in the small, mitrieut arteries of the brain, be characterised by thickening of the tunica intima, associated with atrophy and even disapjiearance of the tunica media. In these organs the arterial changes may be primary, and lead to what is known as renal arteriosclerotic atroj>liy; while, on the other hand, similar changes occur in the arteries in the kidneys in primary interstitial nephritis. Both conditions give rise to forms of granular kidney. Effects of Obliterative Endarteritis.—Wherever obliterative endarteritis occurs the local effect is interference with the f)lood-supply. The brain is necessarily the organ in which the result of such an interference with blood-supply gives rise to the most marked symptoms. First there is diminished blood-supply ; finally there is complete failure. The local result is soften- ing of the portion of brain tissue thus deprived of its nutrition. The clinical manifestations depend on the pi-ecise part of the brain involved. Here, more commonly than in atheroma, soften- ing occurs, while haMnorrh;ige is rarer. In this condition it is also much nioi'e common to have local paresis or paralysis, and to have several such occurring in the same individual. The symptoms resemble those resulting from throm- bosis in atheromatous cerebral vessels. A dift'erential diagnosis depends upon the history, the age of the patient, and the condition of other arteries as the radials. The gradual diminution of arterial lumen with a correspondingly pro- gressive diminution in blood-supply is often indicated by a gradual loss of mental power or of other cerebral function. Acute Aortitis.—Under this name is de- scribed a condition in the aorta and its large branches which is hist(jlogically identical with the obliterative endartei'itis, which has been described in smaller arteries. It differs, how- ever, from the analogous affection in these by not affecting continuously the entire circum- ference of the vessel. It is always a patchy condition, although the patches may be close to each other and the greater part of the aortic arch covered by them. The patches are raised above the level of the normal intima, they are grey in colour, and their edges are abrupt or sloping. Some points of fatty degeneration may be seen, but this does not seem to be any necessary step in the condition. On micro- scopic examination the patches in question are seen to owe their elevation to a thickening of the tunica intima corresponding to that already described in obliterative endarteritis. Along with the thickening of the intima there are areas of small-celled infiltration in it, and in the two other coats. Sometimes there is more or less distinct fibrosis in the tunica media. The condition is almost certainly syphilitic, and the analogue of obliterative endarteritis in siualler vessels. It has no necessary connection witli atheroma, although, as has been said, there may be points of fatty degeneration in the thickened patches. The condition may lead to some yielding of the aorta and a measure of dilatation, but a much more important result is an inter- ference with the blood-supply to the myocardium when the mouths of the coronary arteries are involved in the process. The affection may not be extensive, and yet lead to this result by its presence at the part of the aorta from which these vessels originate. Arteriosclerosis.—From the clinical stand- point this term is applied to all conditions characterised by either real or apparent thicken- ing of arterial walls as that can be judged of by examining the radial arteries—the examination of other superficial arteries as the temporals being sometimes included. Fi-om the patho- logical standpoint it is applied to a mmiber of distinct processes. By some it is applied to atheroma, by others to endarteritis, and by others to a thickening of arterial wall supposed to be due to fibrosis of the middle coat. Ziegler and others describe atheroma under arteriosclerosis, Huchard confines the term to sclerotic thickening of the tunica intima. Thoma pi-omulgated a new view as to the etiological significance of the anatomical changes which requires special consideration, as his view has been accepted and promulgated by Mott in this country and by Osier in America. Thoma's view is as follows :—The elasticity of the arterial