478 BRAIN, AFFECTIONS OF BLOOD-VESSELS has to be carefully considered with reference more particularly to the state of the heart and the other viscera, in order to deterniine which of the two conditions we have to deal w'ith. C. Uremia or Diabetes. — Uraemia and dia- betic coma may sometimes be mistaken for cerebral hsemorrhage, but in the latter we have the local symptoms, whereas in the former two conditions the symptoms are usually bilateral. Yet this is by no means invariably the case, and it will sometimes be found that a condition of urfemia results not only in imilateral urtemic convulsions, but also in a paralysis which affects one side more than the other, for which, never- theless, no underlying anatomical change can be discovered. D. Aneurysm, Tumours, etc.—The ruptiu'e of a large aneurysm, really of course a condition of cerebral haemorrhage, may also closely simu- late what we more strictly consider as cerebral hfemorrhage, but this probably has been pre- ceded by symptoms indicative of intracranial growth, and further information which will assist in making a correct diagnosis of the con- dition will be found under this heading. We have already referred to the occurrence of hsemorrhage into tumours of the brain, but here also, althougli the onset may be exactly like that of an ordinary hfemorrhage, we will prolj- ably have a history pointing to the previous existence of the tumours. This, howevei', is not invariable, and it has happened to the writer to see a patient who was seized with right hemi- plegia without any previous symptoms, in whom, after the lapse of some weeks, the evidences of tumour were conspicuous, and in whom the existence of a large gliomatovis tumour was verified by post-mortem examination. Prognosis.—The prognosis in any case of cerebral haemorrhage is necessarily bad,—not, perhaps, in every case as regards life, but certainly in regard to complete recovery. If the haemorrhage be a small one, of course the damage may be comparatively slight, and the constitutional effects not very severe; still, the fact that a hfemorrhage has occurred makes it impossible to foretell that the patient's life is safe for a single moment, because vascular con- ditions have to be recognised as present which are probably incompatible at all events with long life. On the other hand, if the haemor- rhage be large, more especially if there is any indication that it has burst into the ventricles, the outlook is of the most grave character, and it is almost certain that the patient will not live more than a few hours. In cases in which haemorrhage has occurred on the surface of the brain, more especially if this haemorrhage has been associated with traumatism, the prognosis is not necessarily had if prompt measures be taken to deal with the affection. Haemorrhage, however, into the basal structures, such as the pons and medulla, is necessarily attended with the gravest dangers on account of the proximity of vital structures. Supposing, however, that we have to deal with a haemorrhage which has become encysted, and which is undergoing the series of changes to which we have already alluded, there is no reason why we should not take a hopeful view in reference at all events to the immediate future. There is no doubt that such a haemorrhage will cavise some permanent damage, but one must recog- nise that the evidences of damage at first are much more severe than may afterwards turn out to be the case; so that whereas the leg and arm may be at first completely paralysed, we may find after the lapse of even a few days that a considerable degree of power has returned, on account, no doubt, of the fact that the affection of many of the fibres has been merely a tem- porary one, the result of pressure, with perhaps a slight degree of oedema. Yet it must be recognised that some of the fibres have been cut across, and that these will not be restored, that consequently there will be some permanent defect in the nature of paralysis of the limbs to a varying extent; and, looking further to the future, it must be recognised that there is always, in any case in which haemorrhage has already taken place, a liability to the recurrence of a similar accident in the future. Occlusion of Cerebral Vessels The blocking of cerebral vessels is important from the character of the structures whose nutrition is interfered with. The effect, so far as regards paralysis, depends of course upon the area supplied by the affected vessel. Such occlusion of vessels may be divided into three classes: First, blocking of an artery by means of an embolus of a non-infective or infective nature; secondly, thrombosis or clotting occur- ring in an artery; and, thii'dly, thrombosis in a vein or sinus. I. Cerebral Embolism. — The most common source of an embolus is a diseased cardiac valve. Mitral disease, especially mitral stenosis, is by far the most common form of cardiac disease associated with embolism. Aortic valvular disease may also give rise to the same condition. An embolus also may originate from a clot which may have formed in the left auricle on account of some interference with compensation. This condition also is most like to arise in association with mitral stenosis, because of the incomplete emptying of the auricle which occurs in such a condition where compensation has been lost. No doubt, also, some condition of the blood rendering it more liable to clot favours the occurrence of such an accident. This is especially met with in the rheumatic state, and also during the pregnant and puerperal condition. In a similar way an aneurysm of any of the large vessels may be a source of an embolus which finds its way into