179 ANEURYSM SeaU.—The superficial palmar arch, the fore- arm vessels above the wrist, and the brachial at the bend of the elV)ow, are the vessels wlach most often give rise to arterial hiematomata ; but these may occur upon any of the vessels of the part—even the collateral digitals, the deep palmar arch and its branches. Arterio-venous commiuiications have been described in the hand, are more frequent in the forearm, and the bend of the elbow has hitherto lieen their lieu cTelection. Embolic aneurysms are probably most common about the bifurcation of the brachial and the oi'igin of the common interosseous trunk from the ulnar. Symptoms.—These aneurysms are usually of small or moderate size in proportion to the artery with which they are connected. Treatment.—Pi'oximal compression, digital or by flexion, may be tried ; and vertical suspension is applicable here. These failing, excision of the sac is the proper treatment. The only local con- sideration which tells against this is great depth of the swelling among important parts—particu- larly in connection witli the deep palmar ai'ch. The free anastomosis in the hand renders proxi- mal ligature specially unreliable ; yet ligature of the ulnar and radial above the wrist should be tried iiere after failure of non-operative measures. Recurrent pulsation may still be overcome by compression directed to the median artery and the anterior and posterior inter- osseous vessels as they cross the backs of the lower ends of the forearm bones. High aneu- rysms of the ulnar can be reached without serious injury to the flexor sublimis. Axillary Aneurysm.—Causes.—Wounds and subcutaneous lacerations, usually connected with the occurrence or reduction of dislocations — especially old unreduced—have been responsible for many so-called " aneurysms " in this region. Sharp movements without violence, e.f/. trying to prevent a hat blowing ott', may cause suffi- cient injury to be followed b}^ aneurysm, and it is probable that the frequent strains thrown upon the artery in the very free movements of the shoulder-joint play a causal part in render- ing true aneur^'sms of this vessel somewhat frequent, especially in men, and on the right side. Arterio-venous counnunications are rare. Seat.—True aneurysm may aftect any part of the main trunk. Hrematomata sometimes spring from the subscapidar or other great branch. Symptoms.—Stationary aneurysms and spon- taneous cures are very rare. As a rule these aneurysms grow fast, rupture early, and cause great pain. They grow fast because they lie in loose tissue; nevertheless the axillary sheath and the strong fascia of the floor of the axilla usually direct the enlargement upwards beneath the clavicle into the subclavian fossa. The ai"m is pushed from the side, the shoulder raised, the axilla distended. The vein is often severeh' compressed. The nerves of the brachial plexus are either pushed outwards or surround and adhere to the sac, according to its level. Some- times one, sometimes all the trunks suffer; pain may be extreme, paralysis absolute. If the pulse beyond is not enfeebled and delayed, it may be evidence in a traumatic case that a branch, and not the main trunk, has been wovmded. If unchecked the swelling inci'eases and may rupture subcutaneously, externally, into the shoulder-joint, or into the thorax, often after eroding the clavicle, humerus, or ribs ; the latter may fracture as a result. Suppuration is com- moner here than elsewhere ; gangrene is rare. Diaipwsis.—Tlie principal difficulty is to dis- tinguish a suppurating aneurysm from simple cellulitis. Treatment.—Digital comy)ression of the sub- clavian may be tried if the subclavian space is not encroached upon. It may be combined with an Esmarch's band on the limb up to the shoulder. It is best conducted vmder an- festhesia, and should be kept up for one and a half hours, followed by compression without the Esmarch for at least as long again. Need- ling may be combined with this. If the clavicle is much raised, compression might be carried out aseptically by a rubber-sheathed finger through a suitable supra-clavicular wound. If this fail, the choice lies V)etween ligature of the axillary close above the sac in low aneu- rysms, or of the third part of the subclavian in high aneurysms, and excision of the sac. Eailure to cure of the usual remedies must be met after trial by excision of the sac. Opinion seems to be growing in favour of ex- cision as the operation of choice. To excise, conti'ol the subclavian either by finger pressure or by a loop passed under it, upon which gentle traction can be made as required (Nelaton, Treves). The incisions must give free access. The great pectoral must be divided, if necessary. Until ready to deal with the distal end of the artery an elastic bandage should be kept round the limb to as high a level as possible. The first thing is to find, clear, and tie the artery above and below the wound, or sac-mouth ; then to remove all clot and as much sac as possible, having regard to the state of the patient, and the safety of veins and important nerves. Twice, at least, pieces of the adherent axillary vein have lieen removed without ill-result. On the otlier hand, the results of litjature of the third part of the subclavian have improved greatly of late vears. Suppm-ation of the sac, formerly so com- mon, septic pleurisy, and pneumonia, formerly attributed to injury to phrenic filirils in the nerve to the subclavius, and secondary hajmor- rhage have all become rare. Gangrene after ligatures in the upper limb was never common. This improvement in the results obtained by ligature, and the knowledge that serious sup- puration and bleeding may follow upon excision