524 BRAIN, SURGERY OF of the membranes containing cerebro-spinal fluid. The tumour is usually somewhat small, globular in shape, sessile or more rarely pedun- culated ; more or less translucent; fluctuating. The skin covering the tumour may be normal in appearance, or thin and of a bluish colour, and covered with dilated blood-vessels. The tumour becomes tense on forced expiration, such as in coughing or crying, and the con- tained fluid can be ret^irned by pressiire more or less completely inside the cranium, when the margins of the opening in the bone may be distinguished. 2. Encephalocele, where in addition to the membranes there is brain substance in the protrusion. These tumours are opaque; they do not fluctuate, but frequently pidsate synchron- ously with the brain. They are usually small, with a broad base ; are most commonly situated at the back of the head, and attempts to reduce them are followed by convulsions or other symptoms of brain pressure. 3. Hydrencephalocele, where in addition to the membranes there is a protrusion of brain sub- stance which is distended by a prolongation into the tumour of one of the ventricles con- taining ventricular fluid. In hydrencephaloceles occiu'ring in the frontal region, laterally, or through the upper half of the occipital bone, the dilated lateral ventricle will be found in the sac; where the lower part of the occipital bone is deficient, the cerebellum and the distended fourth ventricle are the parts protruded. The brain substance in these cases is much thinned and altered in appearance, and a layer of fluid is sometimes found between the mem- branes and the brain in addition to the fluid inside the distended ventricle. These are the largest, the most frequent, and the most fatal of the cephaloceles. They are generally at the back of the head, and pedun- culated ; they fluctuate ; they do not usually pulsate; are more or less ti'anslucent; become tense on forced expiration ; and are irreducible. Diagnosis.—A consideration of the above-noted characteristics of these tumours, namely, their position, shape, reducibility, pulsation, their increase on coughing or crying, and the exist- ence of an abnormal aperture in the skull, will usually distinguish them from such things as dermoid cysts, nsevoid tumours, or cephal- hfematomata. The most difficult case to deter- mine is that of a tumour lying at the inner angle of the eye, or near the anterior fontanelle -—a common situation for dermoid cysts, as it is for meningoceles. The introduction of a small sterilised exploring needle will settle the point, as in the case of the meningocele clear cerebro- spinal fluid will be drawn ofl^ whereas the contents of a dermoid cyst are semi-solid and grumous, and will probably not come through the needle. Prognosis.—The outlook in the majority of cases is very iinfavourable. Death not in- frequently takes place shortly before or soon after birth, and in the case at least of encephaloceles and hydrencephaloceles there is no tendency to cure, and little chance of the child living many months. The usual cause of death is inflam- mation occurring first in the skin and causing its destruction, and then spreading to the tumour contents. A certain number of cases of pure meningocele are supposed to be eventually shut oft' from the cranial cavity by closure of the neck of the sac; but it is not possible to say that many of such cases are not congenital cysts. Treatment.—In most cases it is advisable not to adopt any active treatment. Protect the tumour from injury by a suitable apparatus — something on the principle of a vaccination shield answers sometimes—keep the skin over the tumoin* clean and dry so as to lessen chances of irritation. In cases of simple meningocele two plans have been recommended. (a) Puncture.—With a fine aseptic needle draw oft' some of the fluid from the sac, and then apply gentle pressure, or inject a small quantity (3ss. to 5j-) of Morton's fluid (iodine, gr. 10; iodide of potassium, gr. 30; glycerin, §j.), or else, and more safely, (6) Aseptic removal of the sac after ligature of its neck, and subsequent closure of the hole in the bone, where that is large, by an osteo- plastic operation. Brain: Cerebellum, Affections of. Experimental Physiology . . . 524 hemorrhage ...... 525 Softening ...... 526 Tumour ....... 526 Atrophy ...... 530 Cerebellar Heredo-Ataxy . . . 530 Diagnosis ...... 531 Prognosis ...... 531 Treatment ...... 531 Experimental Physiology. — The striking feature of all experimental lesions of the cere- bellum or of its peduncles is disturbance of equilibration. The results of removal of one lateral lobe, including the flocculus, are prac- tically the same as removal of the corresponding half of the middle lobe as well, except that in the latter case the phenomena are more pro- nounced and persist for a longer time. The increase in the amount of disturbance is quite out of proportion to the additional amount of cerebellar tissue removed, so that the middle lobe appears to be of more functional importance than the lateral lobes. After unilateral ablation the disturbance of equilibration is manifested in some animals by a tendency to rotation about their long axis. The direction of this rotation