ARTERIES, LIGATURE OF 279 artery anastomuses with external articular twigs from popliteal artery. 2. Perforating branches of profunda with branches from popliteal. 3. Comes nervi iscliiadici (from sciatic artery) with branches of popliteal. Ligature op the Popliteal Artery is an operation very rarely required. The artery extends from the opening in the adductor niagnus muscle to the lower border of the popliteus miiscle, where it divides into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. The vessel at first courses downwards and somewhat outwards, lying upon the trigone of the femur, then reaching the back of the knee-joint it descends vertically upon the posterior ligament of the joint, and lower down upon the popliteus muscle. The vessel is deeply placed and is intimately attached to the popliteal vein, which is placed superficial to the artery, and lies on its outer aspect above and on its inner side below, thus crossing the artery from without inwards. The internal popliteal nerve is superficial to both vessels. The popliteal artery may bo ligatured just external to the tendon of the semi-membranosus muscle, or more easily in the lower part of the course. The former situation is the better. Ligation of Popliteal Artery in its upper77iost part.—A 4-inch incision is made immediately external to the outer margin of the semi-mem- branosus muscle and tendon, which are readily felt. The skin and fascite are divided when the semi - membranosus is seen, and retracted in- wards. The fatty and areolar tissue is now separated and the internal popliteal nerve exposed, with the popliteal vein lying subjacent to it. These two structures must be drawn outwards after the vein has been most carefully freed from the subjacent artery. The aneurysm needle is to bo passed from without inwards. LigaMon of Popliteal Artery in the lower part of its course.—A vertical incision S J- inches long is made in the middle line of the popliteal space between the two heads of the gastrocnemius muscle. The skin and fascite are divided, the fat separated to either side, care being taken to avoid the external saphenous nerve and vein. The internal popliteal nerve and vein are now retracted outwards, and the aneurysm needle passed around the artery from without inwards. The Posterior and Anterior Tibial Arteries rarely require ligation except for hemorrhage from a wound of either vessel. Ligature of Posterior Tibial Artery.— This vessel, the larger of the two terminal branches of the popliteal artery, reaches from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to a point mid- way between the internal malleolus and the in- ternal tubei-osity of the os calcis, where it terminates by dividing into the internal and external plantar arteries. The upper two-thirds of the artery lie under cover of the gastroc- nemius and soleus muscles. In the lower third of its course, the vessel lies between the internal border of the tendo Achillis and the internal A, Ligature of Femora! in Hunter's canal ; 13, Ligature of Pos- terior Tibial in calf of leg; C, Ligature of Posterior Tibial beliind outer ankle. border of the tibia, covered only by skin, super- ficial and deep fasciae. The artery has two vense comites, and is crossed very obliquely from the inner side above to the outer side below by the posterior tibial nerve. The course of the vessel is indicated by a line drawn from the middle of the popiliteal space to a point mid- way between the internal malleolus and the in- ternal tuberosity of the os calcis. The artery may be ligated in the middle of the leg or behind the internal malleolus. Ln the middle of the leg.—An incision 4 inches in length is made parallel to f inch behind the inner border of the tibia. The skin and fascite are now divided, the internal saphenous vein and nerve being drawn aside if seen. The origin of the soleus muscle from the tibia is now divided, and the glistening aponeurosis on its deep surface having been identified, the soleus is drawn outwards, and the deep fascia lying between the soleus and tibialis posticus exposed and divided, when the artery will be felt pulsating with the posterior tibial nerve on its outer side. The artery is isolated from its companion veins, and the aneurysm needle passed from without inwards. Ligation of the posterior tibial artery behind the internal malleolus.—A curved incision 2 inches long and concave towards the malleolus is made a finger's breadth behind the malleolus with its centi'al point midway between the inner malleolus and the inner tuberosity of the OS calcis. The skin, fascia, and internal annular ligament ai'e divided and the artery found with a vena comes on each side, lying between the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum and the posterior tibial nerve (the tendon lying nearer to the internal malleolus). The veins are separated from the artery, and the aneurysm needle passed from without inwards. Care should be taken to avoid cutting into the tendon sheaths. Ligature of the Peroneal Artery is very exceptionally required for injury. This vessel arises from the posterior tibial artery, about 1 inch below the bifurcation of the popliteal