515 BRAIN, SURGERY OF Occasionally there may Vjc prutrusiou of the eyeballs from pressure of the clot upon the cavernous sinuses. It often happens that there are at first con- vulsive movements in the muscles corresponding to the brain centres pressed upon : these spasms, however, soon give way to paralysis. If the effusion of blood be small in quantity it may be absorbed, though a certain amount of hemiplegia is usually left; if the effusion be a large one the compression is usually fatal unless relieved by operation. Subdural U.emobrhage.—Under this heading we may include hfemorrhages either between the dura and arachnoid, or between the arach- noid and pia mater. The symptoms and treat- Tiient are identical, and subdivision is therefoi'c superfluous. The most striking point of difference between the symptoms of extradural and intradural hsernorrhage is the fact that in the latter variety the onset of compression symptoms is very much more rapid, while the localising pressure symptoms are usually much less distinct. The explanation of these facts lies in the circumstance that when bleeding takes place imder the dura the arachnoid is usually wounded, and the blood pours out quickly into the sub- arachnoid space, there being now much less I'esistance to the outpouring of blood than in the case of extradural hiemorrhage where the adhesions of the dura to the skull otter consider- able resistance. A large quantity of blood, then, being quickly poured out in a film of more or less equal thickness over a large part of the brain surface, there is not only a more rapid accession of compression symptoms, but these are apt to be more of the nature of general compression on a whole hemisphere than strictly localised to any particular region of the brain. This same want of resistance to the bleeding in the case of subdural htemorrhage allows the bleeding from a sinus, when it occurs in this position, to be as rapid and severe as when an artery is wounded. Usually speaking, subdiu-al or subarachnoid luemorrhage comes from the rupture by con- tusion of small vessels in the pia, and especially from the branches of vein just as they are entering the longitudinal sinus; but it may also come from wounds of the middle cerebral or meningeal artery, or from the venous sinuses. Where then the symptoms come on rapidly, and the lucid interval is absent, we should suspect a subdiu-al hccmorrhage. If the extravasation is not a large one recovery rnay take place; at the best it is slow, and apt to be incomplete. Cysts occasionally are formed in the clot, and are met with lying more or less loose in the subarachnoid space. In other cases irritation of the brain, epilepsy, or even insanity may supervene. Cerebral H.emorrhage.—Bleeding into the substance of the brain, or into the cavity of the ventricles, is rare as the result of injury. In the latter position it may come from severe concussion caTising bleeding from the choroid plexus. If the symptoms suggest intraventricular hpemorrhage a trocar might be inserted, and if blood were found, an effort might perhaps be made to remove the clot and stop the bleeding by plugging; or ligature of the carotid on the same side might be entertained. Treatment of Intracranial Hcemorrhage.—In all cases of suspected intracranial hsemorrhage, where compression symptoms are becoming distinct, operate at once. This rule applies all the more forcibly if the htemorrhage be sub- dural. Operative Meamires.—Make for the spot in the brain where the first symptoms of spasm, rigidity, or paralysis of muscles indicated that their corresponding centre was being pressed upon; and trephine here in preference to doing so at the site of apparent external injury, as the bleeding may be due to contre-coup. The localising symptoms are more reliable than the position of the external wound. If the bleeding be from the middle meningeal artery it will prol)ably be from the trunk or anterior branch. To expose these vessels, mark out a spot I h inches behind the external angular process of the frontal, and 14 inches above the zygoma. Shave and render the part aseptic ; drill a hole through the scalp into the skull so as to mark the exact spot in the bone ; tunr down a flap containing the scalp and temporal muscle ; incise the pericranium, and apply a trephine of at least one inch in diameter to the spot drilled in the anterior and lower corner of the parietal bone. Remove the disc, when the clot will usually bulge into the hole : scoop it away with some blunt instrument, and ligature the wounded artery by passing a suture ligature of fine silk or catgut beneath it. If it be impossible to tie the vessel as it lies in the bone, it may be plugged with sterilised wax or gauze. The middle meningeal artery may also be found by Chiene's method (p. 504-). If the posterior branch of the middle meningeal be wounded, it may be reached by trephining at a spot immediately below the parietal eminence, and \\ inches above the line of the zygoma produced back- wards. In most cases the dura shoidd be opened and the brain examined, or a deeper hfemorrhage may be overlooked. The clot will be usually found to be disc- shaped, of not more than three or four inches in diameter, thicker in the middle, and thinning ott' towards its edges. The subjacent brain is often considerably flattened or even hollowed out by pressiu'e from the clot. When the bleeding comes from a venous sinus