74 ADRENAL GLANDS there is no special tendency to these growths in infants, as there is in the case of sarcoma of the kidney. There is often considerable difficulty in de- ciding dogmatically as to the exact histological nature of an adrenal tumour, which is un- doubtedly malignant, as shown by the presence of secondary growths. This is perhaps natural, since the adrenal glands may be regarded as mesoblastic from a developmental point of view, and epithelial from a morphological standpoint. Sometimes, in fact, different parts of the same tumour may resemble sarcoma and carcinoma respectively. It is in- teresting that the same anomaly may occur in the kidney, which has the same embryological relation to the mesoblast and the hypoblast. Sarcoma is the form more often described, and was present in fifteen out of twenty-four cases; it may be small or large, roimd-celled, spindle-celled, mixed or irregular-celled sarcoma, or may contain giant cells. Carcinoma is rarer. It was present in nine out of twenty-four cases. It varies much in histological structure; the growth may resemble an adenoma, and yet, as shown by secondary growths, is undoubtedly malignant; this form may be called " malignant adenoma " ; in other cases the structure is that of a spher- oidal-celled carcinoma. The cells may show karyokinetic figures well, but have a special tendency to undergo fatty changes, and may contain glycogen. As the result of degenerative changes, hyaline material may be formed. Whether histologically sarcomatous or carcino- matous, their gross anatomical characters are much the same; thus they grow rapidly, are hsemorrhagic, and have a special tendency to undergo fatty degeneration, and thus have a peculiar yellowish appearance ; they break down in the centre and form cystic spaces. They may spread by direct continuity into the kidney; this is a fact I have observed myself. Targett, however, is of opinion that though flattened and mechanically displaced, the kidney is not usually invaded by the growth. On the right side I have seen the growth eat its way into the livei-. Usually the growth projects forwards, but from its softness is less easily felt thi-ough the abdominal walls than a renal growth. Excep- tionally, both adrenal bodies may be equally involved. Secondary growths occur most frequently in the liver, tlaen in the aortic lymphatic glands, lungs, and kidneys. Clinically, malignant disease of the adrenal bodies is most likely to be regarded as a renal tumour, which is, of course, much commoner, and on review of the symptoms and physical signs it does not appear that there is any reliable method of certainly distinguishing between them. In some exceptional cases pigmentation of the skin and excessive growth of hair have been noticed, especially, but not exclusively, in young subjects with primary malignant disease of the adrenal glands; vomiting and asthenia, too, are occasionally present, but the complete clinical picture of typical Addison's disease is not pre- sented. Emaciation and an irregular temperature are sometimes present. Besides renal neoplasms there are other abdominal tumours, such as pancreatic cysts, hemorrhagic abdominal cysts, retro-peritoneal lipomata and sarcomata, hydatid cysts, etc., all of which may be confused with malignant adrenal growths. The prognosis is, like that of a malignant disease elsewhere, hopeless, unless removal is performed, and here especially it should be early and complete; the tumours grow rapidly, and generalisation may have begun before the primary growth is sufficiently advanced to have necessitated removal; this actually occurred in a case recorded by H. Morris. Osier quotes a case of completely successful removal. Secondary growths are not uncommon in the adrenal bodies; the primary growth is some- times in the other adrenal body. In 124 cases of carcinoma of otlier parts of the body examined after death in St. George's Hospital, metastatic growths were present in the adrenal bodies in fifteen, in some cases on both sides; and in forty-two cases of sarcoma of other parts of the body secondary growths occurred in the adrenal bodies in seven. The growths always begin in the medulla of the gland, and may spread inside the capsular vein so as to project into the lumen of the inferior vena cava on the right side or the left renal vein. Both adrenal bodies may be very extensively, if not completely, replaced by malignant growth, without any clinical signs suggesting Addison's disease ; in such cases the patient dies before they have time to develop. Malignant Tumours arising in Accessory Adrenal Bodies and in Adrenal "Rests."— Structurally these tumours exactly resemble primary malignant disease of the main adrenal bodies. When tlie growth arises in accessory adrenal bodies situated in their ordinary posi- tion, it will give rise to a retro - peritoneal tumour; what proportion of retro-peritoneal sarcomata are derived from adrenal tissue it is impossible to say, since our knowledge on this point is at present very imperfect. Adrenal "rests "are also met with along the course of the spermatic or ovarian vessels as far as the epididymis or broad ligaments and ovaries, and in the substance of the liver (Schmorl), and may be the starting-points of malignant growths in these situations. It is, however, to malignant tumours of the kidney derived from suprarenal " rests " embedded in the kidney that attention has been chiefly directed. These tumours have aroused much interest, as they illustrate so aptly Cohnheim's theory of the origin of tumours from foetal inclusion. Lubarsch, M'Weeney,