60 ADOLESCENT INSANITY inherited neurotic tendencies in many children, and tide them safely over the periods of puberty and adolescence. Results of Treatment.—About 60 per cent recover; 30 per cent pass into secondary dementia; and 8i per cent pass into other forms of insanity, chiefly chronic mania and delusional insanity. Insanity occurring at the adolescent period is therefore a curable disorder as compared with many other forms, though not so curable as puerperal insanity. When an adolescent becomes insane the patient is usually boyish or girlish in face and form, and when the recovery takes place the signs of completed physiological manhood and womanhood are apparent. The beard has grown, the form has expanded, the weight has increased, and the voice has fully changed. The mortality is very low—about 1 -5 per cent. Significance of Adolescent Insanity. — Looking to the gradual development of mind up to puberty, and the enormous and sudden leap that is then taken towards man's and woman's higher mental life, we must assume an almost complete cerebral apparatus lying ready to be brought into use, just as the centres of respiration are ready for their function at birth. Considering that the very highest mental, emotional, and moral qualities of a human being, with the subtile differentiations between the male and female types, only arise fully between eighteen and twenty-five in the average human being, it would be surprising indeed if the cortical working was not then liable to break down when we had hei'editary weaknesses pres- ent. The most important, the most subtile, and the highest functions imply, of course, the most delicate brain mechanism and the greatest strain on the mechanism. This I believe to be the true theory of adolescents being so subject to attacks of insanity. It is truly a " critical " period of life to those with hereditary neurotic weaknesses. It is the statement of a fact when one says that all the cases of adolescent insanity have hereditary predisposition, mental, or, at all events, neurotic. There cannot be the least doubt, I think, as to its relationship to the special mental charac- teristics of the period of life in which it occurs. It is the period of intense mental development in the female sex, tinctured at every point by her reproductive instincts, which are then acquiring solid form and physical potentiality. With reproduction comes like a flood the real knowledge and realisation of all the possibilities and all the mysteries of life. In the male sex all the combined ambitions and altruistic emotions of life then burst forth to conscious- ness. Up till then, in both sexes, sufficient had been the day for its pleasures and for its evils. A mild egoism had bounded the desires. No real intensity of life had appeared to carry every- thing before it. The philosophic meaning of the change is that the race is greater than the ' individual. We know that all this new mental \ life, all those intense emotions, all those over- mastering ambitions, all those vague but pro- i found longings, are represented, nay, that they arise out of brain energising. Not only do they \ do so, but also the ideal and the poetic of the • period, and the very moral and volitional life, i are dependent on brain working as mTich as the | movements of the fingers. The undeveloped i brain shows no overmastering intensities of feel- j ing or volition, and has no impregnable moral ; resistances. When development proceeds norm- ' ally every feeling and every mental capacity \ is expressed in a physical characteristic of ex- ; pression, of form or of motion. The beauty of ■ woman, and the strength and manliness of man, are the bodily equivalents and counterparts of j the mental ideals proper to the sexes. ' As it is during this period, from eighteen to " twenty-five, that the mental " character" and j the bodily " constitution " are fully formed and j settled, it is no wonder that there are then risks : to the mental functions of the brain to which ; hereditary weaknesses have been transmitted. j If those weaknesses are mental the result is apt \ to be adolescent insanity, or one of that most varied group of mental and moral twists or j lacks which may be described as adolescent torpor, and stupidity, and aimlessness; or adolescent perversion of the moral sense or power of control exhibited in incompatibility of temper, irritability, impulsiveness, dipsomania, immodesty, vice, shamelessness; or general lack i of morality; er in changed emotion, such as utter selfishness, aversion to relatives, asocial- ness, and unnatural attachments. The bodily equivalents of such mental misdevelopments are menstrual irregularities, chlorosis, hysteria, neuralgia, unattractiveness of person, irregular or deficient growth of mammae or beard, awk- ward body movements, and " bad " expressions h of face. I There is, to my mind, a striking analogy ' between idiocy and adolescent dementia. With i points of difference the great mental deficiencies are the same. The idiot has usually far more bodily defects, but that is because in idiocy the bad heredity was stronger and caused its effects during the formative and growth stage of life. I have seen cases where from traumatism, fever.s, hydrocephalus, loss of the senses, or hereditary syphilis, children of from seven to twelve were arrested in their brain and mental development and left in states that could not be distinguished from congenital imbecility. There are a few cases of secondary dementia, resulting from attacks of adolescent mania, usually in the early years of adolescence, that become so complete as to resemble idiocy. Looking at the whole question of mental en- feeblement, from birth up to twenty-five, from the point of view of brain development, I am