170 ANEURYSM free aseptic incision into the tissues round the sac should not be delayed. Should serious haemorrhage occur, the choice of treatment lies between an iodoform plug (when nothing better can be done, as at root of neck) ; excision or incision of the sac, w'hile the circulation is con- trolled ; aseptic ligature through normal tissues above the aneurysm, no large branch intervening; and amputation, where this is possil:)le. Many consider that if proximal ligature has not been done and suppuration is occurring, the operation should be performed at once, with every precau- tion against infection of the wound. There are some rare conditions, not included under these four headings, in which diagnostic difficulties arise. An increasing fluid aneurysm may be pulse- less ; its history may be a long one, and pulsa- tion may have been absent throughout. Such swellings are taken for cysts or malignant growths, according as the sac is thin or thick. When incised the blood streams out rather than jets. No certain explanation of absence of pul- sation under these circumstances has been offered. A svvelHng, usually in the neck, having no pul- sation, may suddenly increase and pulsate. An artery has probably opened into a chronic abscess. Prognosis.—This is usually grave. Just as a man who has ruptured one cerebral vessel lives expecting another to burst, so it is with the subject of an aneurysm. Only too often he dies of another, the first having been cured. John Hunter's fourth case (patient aet. thirty-six), however, survived the operation fifty years. In aneurysms of the subclavian, innominate, upper end of the external iliac, the prognosis becomes grave on account of the aneurysm itself; and the frequency with which cerebral complications have followed upon the treatment of carotid aneurysms is a special point to be borne in mind. A stationary condition or marked tendency to spontaneous cure will be favourable points. Local Treatment.—Only one method affords a certain obliteration of aneurysm, viz. excision of the sac, or excision with suitable after-treat- ment. All other methods—which do more than give external support to the sac—aim at so altering the conditions within the sac — by slowing or arresting the flow of blood, by injuring the lining of the sac, or by directly producin<j; coagulation of some blood—as to cause it to fill with clot, as in spontaneous cure; and all may fail in their object. Methods.—Elevation, with bandaging. Ap- plication of ice. Excision and incision of the sac. Ligature. Compression. Amputation. Needling. Electrolysis. Introduction of foreign bodies. Manipulation. Injection of coagvilants. Injection of ergotin. 1. Elevation, ivith bandaging.—In aneurysms —especially popliteal—trial may be made of the application of a firm bandage over cotton wool to the whole length of the limb, fixation to a splint and vertical suspension of the limb. The mode of action is obvious. 2. Ice over the Sac was often employed with rest, etc., especially in recurrent pulsation. It should not be iised if the circulation is much embarrassed. 3. Excision and Incision of the Sac.—Excision of the sac is preferable to incision with evacu- ation of contents, because there is much less chance of some branch opening into the sac being left untied to bleed later, and because the raw surface left is more suitable for speedy union and more capable of resisting in- fection. In cases of diffuse arterial and aneurysmal hajmatoma the sac of the hsematoma cannot be removed ; but in the latter case the ruptured aneurysm should be sought at the bottom at the cavity, removed, and the ends of the artery tied. In cases of true aneurysm, or of well-circumscribed hfematoma, the sac may be so intimately adherent to important parts— especially veins, nerves, and the posterior liga- ment of the knee—that its complete removal can- not be effected. Then the adherent parts should be scraped free of clot, and the rest removed. There are three general points to be observed in excision and incision of sacs. The first is to obtain control over the circidation. The next is to make a wound free enough to thoroughly expose the swelling; often a very long one, with division of muscles and even bones. The last is maintenance of asepsis. The neatest operation is perhaps proximal ligature, separation of the sac and ligature of branches rising, and finally distal ligature of the truiik. The more common course has been to tie the artery above and below, and then to remove the piece between with the sac. When the sac has widely overlapped the trunk, incision of the sac, ligature of the artery through it, and finally careful removal of the whole sac has been done—the result being exactly the same as in excision. In a very serious group of widely diffused aneurysms (femoral, popliteal and pos- terior tibial), in which, after splitting open the hsematoma, the true sac was found and excised, all recovered well. Results of Excision.—With Walsham's cases, we have thirty-five of spontaneous aneurysm treated by excision of the sac. Recoverfid. Died. 1 Carotid, 1 0 3 Subclavian, 2 1 From another an- eurysm. 7 Femoral, 7 0 / 1 suppuration in 22 Popliteal, 20 21 , ^ ' \\ gangrene, ampu- 1 tation refused. 1 Perforating of profunda, 1 0 1 Posterior tibial, 1 0