469 in the oculoiUDtor sulcus nii thf innur side nf the crus cereltri. Most of these roots arise in the nucleus of the same side ; a few, mainly derived from the lower part of the anterior group, are crossed. The innermost fibres (jf the root arise in the median and postero-internal nuclei, anrl are of finer calilire than the others. They pass on the inner side of the red nucleus. The outermost fibres pass thrf)U<j,h the posteridr longitudiuid fasciculus and l)elo\v tlie reel nucleus. Anatomical, physiological, ;ind clinical investigations appear to indicate that the median nucleus is the centre for convergence ; the postero-internal nucleus (which seems capable of subdivision into two parts) subserves accom- modation and pupil-contraction; the postero- lateral and external group supply the elevators of the globe and upper lids, viz. the superior rectus, inferior obli<]ue, elevator palpebral superiors ; while the anterior grouj) sends til)res to the internal rectus and to the inferior rectus. Till' Fourth Nerve.—The nucleus of this nerve lies in the posterior aspect of the posterior longitudinal fasciculus, and is a compact ovoid group of cells almost continuotis with the lower end of the third nucleus. Its fibres pass first outwards as far as the inner aspect of the upper root of the fifth nerve; they then bend downwards, and ])elow the posterior corpora (juadrigeminum in the valve of Vieussens they decussate witli the roots of the other nucleus and emerge on the opposite side. The nucleus and root Ijoth appear to receive filires from the longitudinal fasciculus, which no doul)t sul)serve some associated movement. 77ie Sixth Nerve axiaea from ai-onnded nucleus which underlies the eminentia teres in the floor of the fourth ventricle, close to the median groove and immediately above the striaj acusticfe. The nucleus lies on the posterior longitudinal bundle, and has on its inferior, inner, and upper aspects the fibres of the knee of the facial nerve. Tts root-filires pass nearly directly forwards, pierce the pj'ramidal fibres, and emerge l>elow the lower border of the -pons in the groove at the outer side of the anterior pyramid. The nucleus also sends fibres by way of the posterior longitudinal fasciculus to the internal rectus muscle of the opposite side; and in this way it serves as the nucleus for the conjugate deviation of the eyeballs to its own side. It has also important connections with the cochlear and vestibular nuclei of the auditory nerve, which, no doubt, subserve important reflex acts. With the vestibular nuclei (nucleus of Deitei's and dorsal acustic nucleus) it is connected directly by fibres passing inwards from the latter. With the cochlear nucleus it is united through the corpTis trapezoideuna, the superior olive, and a bundle of fibres from the latter to the sixth nucleus, termed the peduncle of the superior olive. The Fifth yerve. —The fifth nerve has a widely extended origin in the medulla and jjons. It arises by two roots, a motor and a sensory, the latter being nnich the larger. The motor root consists of the superior root of the fifth CONVERGENCE CENTRE POST. EyTERNAU POST INTERNAL ACCOMMODATION SPHINCTER CONTRACTION ELEVATORS OF LID 8. EYEBALL INFERIOR RECTUS SUPERIOR oblique: Fta. 10.—Uiagiam of tlio si^gmeiits of tlie thinl iiervi- and their functions. The diagram shows also the ijositioii uf the foui tli nucleus and the course of its nerve. nerve, and the motor I'oot proper. The superior (descending) root arises from peculiar vesicular, deeply pigmented cells which lie scattered at the lateral margin of the grey matter which siuTounds the aqueduct of Sylvius. The fibres from these cells j^ass downwards in a series of bundles, which on transverse section form a crescentic group on the outer margin of the grey matter round the aqueduct. The bundles of fibres become gradually more anterior in COCHUtA SEMICIRCULAR CANALS Fig. 11.—To show how Uie nucleus of the sixth nerve acts as the centre for conjugate deviation of both eyes to the same side, and also its coiniections with the auditory nuclei. their position as they pass downwards, and at the level of the motor nucleus they bend for- wards and outwards to emerge with the motor root. The cells are seen among the filires of the root throughout its extent, and become