ABORTION liquid extract may be given, and its eficct kept up by repeated half-drachm doses every six or eight hours. Or three to five grains of ergotin may be administered hj^podermically, and the effect maintained by the use of ergotin (5 gr.) suppositories. Quinine in two- to six-grain doses every four or six hours may be exhibited with the same good result. The contractions of the >iterus are further aided by the means used for fulfilling the next indication, viz. :— 2nd. Rest7-aint of Hcemorrliage.—Whilst the uterus is contracting and separating the mem- branes, especially at the serotinal area, bleeding goes on, and we may think of arresting it, first of all, by packing the vagina with a tampon. We may be called to see a patient without any warning as to the nature of her ailment and have to content ourselves with whatever material in the form of handkerchiefs or pieces of cotton the household may afford. But at least we will do well after douching the vagina to soak the material with which we proceed to plug it in some disinfectant or boil it in a pan to sterilise it. Where we have the opportunity, it is better to use iodoform gauze or some antiseptic cotton pledgets; and wherever we have applied a temporary tampon we ought to return within twelve hours prepared to make a more effective application. Sometimes hydrostatic bags have been used to plug and distend the vagina, or in packing with gauze or cotton through a speculum some of the material may be pushed into the cervix. But the most effective control of the ha3morrhage is attained when the cervical canal is plugged with a tent of tupelo or of prepared sponge. The tent must be carried clear thi'ough the cervix so that the distal extremity goes well into the cavity of the uterus whilst the proximal end is just within the os externum. An aseptic sponge-tent of the thickness and length of the middle finger, well planted in a three months' aborting uterus, has the threefold effect of (rt) absolutely arresting the ha;morrhage ; {It) stimulating the uterus to conti'act; and (c) dilating the whole canal. If its expansion be hastened by injection of carbolised water into the vagina every half-hour or so, it will so swell up in the course of five or six hours that there is room for the escape of the ovum, which may be driven out under the uterine effort, or ex- tracted, if need be, by the medical attendant. 3ni. Evacuation of the Uter^is.—Complete evacuation of the uterus at this stage is of supreme importance. When the ovum is under- going extrusion, the canal is more dilatable and the cavity more accessible than it will be later. The patient or attendant must be warned to preserve whatever comes away in such cases, for examination of the products of the abortion usually gives a good idea as to whether the uterus has been fairly cleared. If there be any doubt, the finger should be passed into the cavity of the uterus to explore the walls and corners. If any fragments of membrane are left, and still more if the entire ovum and its investments are still in ufero, immediate clear- ance of the cavity should be effected. For this purpose the patient should be antesthetised. Access to the cavity of the uterus is best obtained by passing a finger or fingers of the right hand through the vagina and cervix whilst the body of the uterus is being pressed down with the left hand applied above the symphysis pubis. The index or medius alone may suffice for the uterine exploration in a two months' abortion. At and after the third month the two fingers must be introduced through the cervix, sometimes with the other fingers and the palm of the hand carried into the vagina. At the fifth month and onwards, the whole hand may have to be passed into the uterus to secure its satisfactory clearance. The fingers must be passed carefully and determinedly round the whole circumference of the ovum so as to detach it and its membranes, especially in the placental area, completely from their uterine attachments. The temptation arises when the practitioner feels that he has got nearly round the ovum to seize it between the fingers and pull on it, in the expectation that in coming away it will bring with it the still unseparated lobules of the placenta. If he take the trouble to examine the mole he has removed, however, he is very likely to find that he has left some placental fragments. He must then introduce his fingers anew for their detection and removal. It is far more satisfactory when the fingers are first introduced to complete the detachment of the ovum from the whole uterine surface, and not to attempt its extraction until the mass lies loose in the cavity. It may now be exti-acted by laying hold of it between the fingers, or by hooking the two fingers over it and pressing downwards against the front wall of the uterus, whilst the left hand compresses the organ through the abdominal walls. Sometimes the uterus can be freed of its loosened contents by compressing it between the two fingers of the right hand, applied through the posterior fornix vaginai, and the left hand above the pubes ; or the loose structures may be withdrawn by means of a pair of polypus forceps or long dressing-forceps ; or they may be partly washed out, partly expelled by uterine effort, under the influence of a hot intra-uterine douche. Special curettes and abortion forceps have been contrived, but no instrument can take the place of the sentient finger. There are patients in whom the abdominal walls are so thick that the hand applied to the hypogastrium fails to press down the uterus within reach of the fingers in the vagina. In such cases it is well to pull down the uterus with a volsella till the external os appears at the vulva. This enables the fingers to thoroughly explore the fundus.