ANEURYSM 169 artery l)iit important collateral i)ranclie!s; (3) by embolism of the main trunk or it« branches beyond the aneurysm. Thv sifiiis need no enumeration here. Diagnosis.—As al)ove shown, aneurysms may be met with in four conditions—(1) Typical, with fluid contents and pulsation well marked; (2) solid or almost so ; (3) diffused or leaking ; and (4) inflamed or suppurating. All have to be borne in mind, and the difficulties vary in each case. In its TYPICAL STATE, aneurysm is simulated by fluid and soft solid swellings, especially cysts of" all kinds and chronic abscesses, lying in such relation to main vessels as to receive a commimi- cated pulsation. All pulsating tumours are not aneurysms. Every endeavour should be made so to move a suspected tmiiour from the artery as to show its independence. Pulsating cysts are generally lax, thin-walled, of indefinite out- line ; if they lap round an artery they may pulsate expansileh', but the pulsation is feeble as compared with that of a thin-walled aneurysm. The tenser a cyst becomes, the more does its pulsation assume the simple heaving character— a mere rising and falling—which alone solid tumoui's acquire. Such tumours may not always have pulsated. They have, as a rule, no bruit: but pressiire with a stethoscope may, by driving the mass back on to the artery, produce ii rasping systolic sound, removed on lightening the pressure or on applying it to some other point or in some other direction. Proximal compression of the artery stops all pulsation ; but the cyst or tumour cannot be reduced by pressure, except in the case of cysts behind the knee, the fluid of which can sometimes be pressed into the joint—where it may be de- tected. There is no increase and no thrill on removing pressure from the artery. Among SOLID tumours simulating aneurysm exophthalmic goitre is important. The enlarge- ment of the thyroid in Uraves' disease is not as a rule great; but it is often asymmetrical, the right side being the larger. It pulsates proprio ■motu, often has a marked thrill and murmur. The shape of the swelling, particularly the way in which it runs down and into the thyroid isthmus, is suggestive of its nature ; the isthmus, if not the opposite lobe, is almost always palpable ; the pulsation is not so forcible as that of an aneurysm ; but the great point is that the swelling rises and falls with the larynx in swallowing. The presence of exophthalmos and other signs of Graves' disease should be looked for. But the tumour which of all others has simulated aneurysm most successfully is the pulsating sarcoma, almost always of bone. These growths are so vascular that they pulsate expansilely with each heart - stroke, where they are not contained within a bony shell; they yield a bruit wdiich is described as "soft and wiiitling," and sometimes a "thrill"; compression of the artery aljove causes cessation of these signs, but, as a rule, little or no diminu- tion in size, and on release of the artery there is no increase, merely return of pulsation. When these growths have formed in the line of a great artery, and deeply—as in the iliac fossa —mistakes have occurred through no lack of skill. The signs \vhich specially point to sarcoma are — irregularity of form ; possible expansion or perforation of the bone (e.g. hip- bone and appearance of pulsation in the buttock); displacement of the artery liy the growth (e.g. the vessel may be traced over it) ; expansion less marked than in aneurysm, and perhaps localised at one or more spots; egg - shell crackling; the slight effect of comjiressing the artery; secondary growths. But it is obvious that the diagnosis from a leaking iliac aneurysm with no reliable history to guide may l)e very difficult. Exploration should be borne in mind, but in the iliac fossa of a stout person it would not be an easy matter. When the aneurysm is solid or nearly so, it is motionless, or has only a heaving pulsation. All aneurysms do not pulsate. The danger is that the solid mass will be taken for a tumour over the artery. The history is of great import- ance—first, of a pulsating tumour; next, of its gradual and sudden solidification. If sudden, there will perhaps be a history of sudden pain (embolism) or of a period of difficulty in the circulation of the part. Lastly, it is important to know wlu^ther the mass is enlarging or shrinking. Absence of, or very feeble pulse beyond, in all positions of the limb {e.g. with knee flexed), suggests aneurysm strongly ; so too does enlargement of collateral vessels, which should be searched for. These are points in favour of aneurysm. When an aneurysm becomes ra])idly and widely diffused, the question arises, whether at the bottom of the swelling there is a ruptured aneurysm or a ruptured artery. The history nnist, as far as possible, decide. The recogni- tion of a circumscribed arterial ha}matoma, as a rule, presents no difficulties. But certain cases —fortunately very rare—of leaking aneurysm or arteiy may so closely resemble abscess as to defy diagnostic skill. The state of the peri- pheral pulse is most important. When SUPPURATION ensues about a recognised aneurysm, there is no diagnostic difficulty. If there is any pulsation, any distui'bance of the peripheral pulse, any suspicion of a non-pulsatile tumour deejD in the cellulitis along a gi'eat artery, every care must be exercised in taking the history and in treating the case ; for not only does the inflammatory swelling tend to obscure the aneurysmal tumour, f)ut an arteritis with secondary- thrombosis is often induced. The treatment must be that of inflanmiation generally ; and if suppuration seems inevitable,