BLADDER, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF 398 should subsequently be an escape of urine, there may be an outlet for it. It is also advisable to tie in a catheter per urethram, or to draw off the urine at frequent intervals for some days, to prevent any distension of the bladder taking place. If, however, the urine is in an imhealthy condition, and the viscus presents well-marked signs of chronic cystitis, the wound in its walls should be left open, a drainage-tube being in- serted for two or three days, healing under these circumstances taking place by granulation. To correct the toxic state of the virine, the bladder should be washed out regularly with some anti- septic lotion, e.g. boric acid, and powdered boric acid should be frequently dusted into the supra- pubic opening. By these means the unhealthy condition of the urine is counteracted, and the cystitis is relieved; at the same time, the risk of pelvic cellulitis, which in former years was a frequent and often a fatal complication of the operation, owing to infiltration of toxic urine into the cellular tissue in the neighbourhood of the suprapubic wound, is almost entirely pre- vented. The wound gradually contracts, and visually closes in the course of three or four weeks, and the free drainage which is maintained so long as it remains open, always has a beneficial effect upon the cystitis. Lithotomy in females is rarely required, most calculi being capable of removal per urethram, especially if first reduced in size by a lithotrite. If, however, too large or too hard to be extracted by this I'oute, then suprapubic lithotomy should, as a rule, be performed in preference to vaginal lithotomy, i.e. by means of an incision through the antei'ior vaginal wall. Lithotomy in children.—In cases where litho- trity is contra-indicated by the size of the stone or other conditions present, suprapubic lithotomy should be performed, for the bladder, being an abdominal rather than a pelvic organ in young subjects, is readily accessible by this route. The suprapubic operation is not only extremely successful in male children, but it also obviates all risks of sexual impotence in after life, an occasional sequel of lateral lithotomy in boys, from injury to the seminal vesicles or their ducts. Recurrence after operation.—It is only in a small proportion of cases that calculi recur after removal. When recurrence takes place after lithotomy, it is probably due to the same con- stitutional causes which led to the formation of the calculus in the first instance, another form- ing in the kidney and passing on into the bladder, and it is most likely to occur in cases where more than one calculus was found in the bladder at the time of operation. When following litho- trity, it may be due to the same cause, or more probably because the bladder was not completely cleared of all the fragments, one of these remain- ing behind and acting as the nucleus of a fresh calculus. That the latter view is correct is proved by the fact that recurrence is more common after lithotrity than after lithotomy, and it is met with much less frequently now than in former years, in consequence of the improved means at our disposal for removing all the fragments at the time of operation. The treatment of secondary calculi is identical with that already described, but in performing suprapubic lithotomy for the second time on the same patient, it will often be found that the anterior reflection of peritoneum is drawn down and fixed close to the upper border of the pubes, in consequence of the cicatricial contraction of the parts in the neighbourhood of the old wound, so that unless care is taken, it is liable to be injured in exposing the anterior surface of the bladder. Tumours The bladder is frequently the seat of new growths, which may be either primary or secondary, the former originating in its walls, the latter involving it secondarily, usually by direct extension from some adjacent part. The 'primary growths usually met with are Papilloma, Sarcoma, and Carcinoma: much rarer varieties are Adenoma, Myoma, Myxoma, and Angioma: instances of Osteoma and Enchondroma have been recorded. As regards the relative fre- quency of the three most common forms of growth, sarcoma is much less rare than was formerly believed, many instances of so-called " villous cancer" being really of this nature. In 22 consecutive cases of vesical growth ex- amined microscopically by the writer, their structure was as follows:—papilloma, 9; sar- coma, 7 ; carcinoma, 6 (epithelioma, 4; en- cephaloid, 1 ; scirrhus, 1). Primary tumours are much more common in males than females, the urinary and genital disorders of the former sex, by acting as local causes of irritation, prob- ably predisposing to their formation. Secondary tumours are usually of a cancerous nature, and due to direct extension from the uterus or vagina in females, and from the rectvim and prostate in males. Dermoid and hydatid cysts may also involve the bladder, usually secondarily, very rarely as primary affections. Papilloma of Bladder.—Papilloma usually presents itself as a soft fiocculent growth made up of floating tufts or feathery processes, not unlike the villi of the chorion, hence the term " villous tumour " often applied to it. Growths of this nature may be single or multiple, and pedunculated or sessile; they spring from the mucous membrane or submucous tissue, not in- volving the deeper coats, their favourite situa- tion being the trigone and the neighbourhood of the ureter. In some cases there is no distinct tumour, the affected portion of the bladder-wall presenting a velvety or a shaggy fiocculent appearance, occasionally for a considerable ex- tent. The processes, which may subdivide