506 BRAIN, SURGERY OF The Openiny of the Bone.—In trephining the skull the following points are worth remem- bering :— Do not make too small an opening. For the purpose of exploring the brain or meninges a trephine of at least 1 to inches in diameter is advisable. As asepsis is of great importance in brain surgery, and as the old-fashioned trephines are very difficult to sterilise, it is safer to use an instrument, such as Gait's or Horsley's trephine, which can be taken easily to pieces, and which can be rendered safe by boiling. One must bear in mind that different skulls vary enormously in thickness, and that the individual normal skull varies very much in this respect at different parts. Thus the frontal bone is throughout usually very much thicker than the inferior part of the parietal, or that part of the occipital on each side of the middle line. Again, the diploe is absent in most of the squamous bone and in the occipital fossae, and is scarcely to be recognised in the case of very old or very young patients. In applying the trephine one should avoid, if possible, placing it over the sinuses or large branches of the meningeal artery. Taking into consideration the convexity of the skull and its very varying thickness at different points, it is necessary to be careful in using the trephine to make it bear equally all round the cutting surface, and to test the depth of the groove every now and then with a probe or qiiill so as to make sure that the dura mater or brain be not damaged. If the probe indicates that one part of the groove is deeper than the rest, or that the bone is cut completely through, care must be taken that the trephine be slanted so as not to bear on that part of the groove. It is important not to use any force in attempting to lift out the disc of bone with the elevator before it is completely, or at least very nearly completely, cut through. If this mis- take be made the disc is apt to split in half through the diploe, the inner table being left behind at the bottom of the wound, and giving considerable trouble to remove. Smart bleeding occasionally occurs during the operation of trephining from the vessels in the diploe. If at all severe, it may be stopped either by crushing the bone opposite the bleed- ing spot with a strong pair of forceps, by plugging the bleeding vessel with a small piece of sterilised gauze or sponge, or, perhaps best, by Horsley's putty, which is composed of car- bolic acid, 1 part; oil, 2 parts; and wax, 7 parts. This material, or sterilised wax, should always be at hand when the skull is to be opened. When, for any reason, the original trephine opening is not found sufficient for the purpose in hand, it may be enlarged by Hoffmann's gouge - forceps, the bone being thus quickly nibbled away over a sufficient area; or a second trephine opening may be made at a short distance from the first one, and the bridge of bone between them cut across with Hey's saw, and removed with powerful bone pliers. Such a bridge of bone may also be quickly cut through by a rotatory saw attached to a dental engine or electric motor, or by the spiral osteotome of Dr. Cryer. Gigli's wire saw, with which the bone is cut from within outward, the instrument being ppassed in at one trephine opening and out at a second, may also be used. In iising these instruments special precautions must be taken to prevent injury to the dura mater. The chisel and mallet, or gouge, are favourite instruments for opening up the skull with some surgeons. The series of blows inflicted by the mallet would appear to be a very serious and unnecessary addition to the shock often insepar- able from the operation of trephining; still the method finds favour with many American and German surgeons. If the gouge be used, extreme care must be taken that it does not plunge through the inner table and wound the subjacent parts. When it has been found necessary to remove with the trephine a large piece of the skull, and the brain is thus uncovered by bone over a considerable area, not only is the patient liable to suffer severely, or even fatally, from blows on the unprotected bi'ain, but a certain number of such patients experience troublesome vertigo on stooping. For these reasons it has been recommended to put back the pieces of skull removed by the trephine in the hope that they may survive, and by adhering to surrounding parts may restore the normal protective covering to the brain. If this plan be adopted, the pieces of bone should on removal be at once put into a warm aseptic, or 1 per cent sterilised saline solution, and kept at a temperature of about 100° till they are replaced in the wound at the end of the operation. Some surgeons put back the discs of bones as they are, while others recom- mend cutting them up into small fragments and planting these over the surface of the dura before stitching up the wound. There are several objections to either plan, viz, the fragments of bone may either become absorbed, or may necrose, and give trouble in that way, while the bony covering they form is, at the best, of little protective value. When the disc is put back as a whole there is a serious risk of its becoming depressed below the level of the surrounding skull and thus pressing upon the brain. The writer has operated on two cases where epilepsy was caused by such depressed fragments of skull, the result of previous operations. Where there is only a single disc of bone