530 BRAIN : CEREBELLUM, AFFECTIONS OF tongue is not common, and when met with is usually slight, and as a rule corresponds to the side on which the tumour is situated. Speech.—Articulation is imperfect in a fair proportion of cases of cerebellar tumour, and the nature of the defect suggests that it is allied to the other ataxic disturbances that characterise cerebellar lesions ; but pressure on the pons and medulla may, of course, account for the articulatory defects in some patients. Deglutition.—Difficulty of swallowing is some- times a symptom ; usually under circumstances which make it probable that secondary pressure effects are responsible for the defect, though it may possibly be an ataxic difficulty in some cases. Psychical State.—The mental hebetude which is so common in patients the subject of intra- cranial tumour in general, is met with in cases of cerebellar tumour, while in other cases the mental condition is one of irritability ; but there is no clinical evidence to support the view of those that regard the hemispheres of the cerebellum as concerned with psychical functions. State of Nutrition.—Patients the subject of cerebellar tumour are not more prone to waste than when the growth is situated in some part of the cerebrum, so that Luciani's view that the cerebellum exerts a trophic influence on the tissues of the body is not borne out by this, or indeed by any form of disease of the organ in man. Sexual Functions. — Disturbances of these functions do not occur with any degree of fre- quency sufficient to justify the view held by Serres that the cerebellum is specially related to the sexual functions. Atrophy.—The cerebellum may be atrophied as a whole and practically to extinction, while in other cases the change, though general, is not so pronounced. Both lateral lobes may be affected, the middle lobe alone remaining normal, or there may be only atrophy of one lateral lobe, a condition that is most commonly con- secutive to a long-standing destructive lesion of the opposite cerebral hemisphere. Another cause of atrophy of the cerebellum is arrest of development, while a third is meningitis or some form of encephalitis. Hypertrophy of the cere- bellum has generally been met with in imbeciles. In some of the cases of cerebellar atrophy symptoms date from birth, while in others they follow definitely on an acute cerebral affection, prior to which no abnormality has been evident in the child. Nearly all the cases are mentally deficient; the impairment of intellect is slight in some, but pronounced in others, and the congenital cases may be idiots from birth. Dementia, melancholia, and maniacal attacks have been met with in a few cases. There is usually some abnormality of speech, though in some it may be quite normal. The particular form of defect and the degree of impairment varies; it is commonly slow, and may be drawl- ing, hesitating, or jerky. Epilepsy is compara- tively common in the subjects of cerebellar atrophy, though in many of the cases there are no convidsive attacks of any kind. Tonic spasm of the neck muscles is a symptom in some cases. In the majority of instances the patients have been able to sit or stand, but in some there has been an inability to sit upright, and a tend- ency to fall forward or backward on standing. It is exceptional for these cases to present any motor weakness of the limbs, and when present the legs have been usually affected. Movements may, nevertheless, be impaired in consequence of a variable degree of ataxy present, which may affect all the limbs or the arms alone, and, though bilateral, it may be more pronounced on one side than on the other. The move- ments may be uncertain and slow or jerky and irregular, or thei'e may be tremor of the limbs of a more general character, the head and trunk may oscillate when the patient sits up, or the whole body may sway on standing. Others of the cases have shown no sign of ataxic disturb- ance, all movements being performed rapidly and with precision. The gait is usually reeling or staggering, and so great may be the disturb- ance that progression is scarcely possible ; in a few cases, however, the gait has presented no abnormal features. Defects in the sphere of one or other of the cranial nerves may be pres- ent, but are rare. Among defects of the kind that have been met with are optic atrophy, dilatation of one pupil, strabismus, partial uni- lateral ptosis, and in a case with symptoms resembling those of disseminate sclerosis there was nystagmus. Weakness of the facial muscles on one or both sides has been noted, as has deviation of the tongue to one side on protrusion. The only other noteworthy defect in the province of the cranial nerves is difficulty in swallowing, which has been a symptom in a few of these cases. Cutaneous sensibility is unaffected, and it is exceptional to meet with any defect of muscle sense. Nothing pathognomonic has been estab- lished with regard to the knee-jerks; they have been normally preserved, diminished, or exagger- ated in different cases. Sexual excitement has been a symptom in a few of the patients. Cerebellar Heredo-Ataxy.—This affection may most appropriately be considered next. The disease was first described by Marie under the title Heredo-Ataxie Cerebelleuse, but its nosological place among diseases has not yet been definitely determined owing to the small number of cases that have come to autopsy. The affection is closely allied to Friedreich's disease ; both affect the cerebello-spinal system, but there is reason to believe that that now under consideration begins at the cerebellar end of the system, while Friedreich's ataxy begins at the spinal end.