273 ARTERIES, LIGATURE OF anastomoses around tlie scapula between the supra - scapular, posterior - scapular, and sub- scapular arteries, and also by twigs from the internal mammary, superior intercostal, and aortic intercostal arteries anastomosing with the long thoracic artery and the above-men- tioned scapular arteries. Ligature of the Vertebral Artery. — An incision along the hinder border of the sterno- cleido-mastoid, commencing one inch above the clavicle, and passing upwards for four inches, is made, avoiding injury to the external jugular vein. The stcrno-cleido-mastoid is drawn for- wards, when the scalenus anticus muscle will be defined with the phrenic nerve lying on its anterior as[)ect. The interval between this muscle and the longus colli is now defined, and the anterior tubercle of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, the deep guide to the vessel, is readily felt. Just below this bony point in the inter-muscular gap, the vertebral vein is found lying superficial to the artery. The vein is retracted a little outwards to allow of the needle being passed from without inwards. Ligature of Inferior Thyroid Artery.—An incision is required three inches in length, running upwards along the anterior margin of the sterno-clcido-mastoid muscle, and commenc- ing half an inch above the clavicle. The sterno- cleido-mastoid muscle and the carotid sheath are now drawn outwards. The operator next makes out the anterior tubercle of the trans- verse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and the artery is found coui'sing inwai'ds just below this bony point. Great care must be exercised in isolating the vessel, as the middle cervical (thyroid) ganglion of the sympathetic frequently lies upon the artery. Ligature op Internal Mammary Artery.— This vessel may be ligatured by means of a transverse incision one inch and a half in length, the centre of the incision being placed half an inch outside the margin of the sternum. In the upper part of its course the vessel lies directly on the pleura, in the lower part the triangularis sterni intervenes between it and this membrane. In order, tiierefore, to reach the artery, the superjacent fibres of the pectoralis major, the anterior intercostal membrane, and the internal intercostal muscle must be divided. Both ends of the vessel, if completely divided, must be found and secured with ligatures. Ligature of the Axillary Artery is seldom called for except for stab wound. The vessel commences at the outer margin of the first rib, and terminates by becoming the brachial artery at the lower border of the teres major muscle. I.e. at the lower margin of the posterior axillary fold. Wlien the arm is abducted so as to lie at a right angle with the trunk, a line drawn from the centre of the clavicle to the inner margin of the coraco-brachialis muscle (a prominence vol. i always to be made out in this position of the limb) will mark the course of the artery. The vessel may be tied in either the first, second, or A, for Axillai-y Artery 3rd part; B, for Brachial Artery in middle of upper -Mm ; C, for Brachial Artery at bend of elbow ; D, for Radial Artery in upper third of forearm ; B, for Ulnar Artery in middle of forearm ; F, for Radial Artery in ndddle tliird of forearm ; G, for Ulnar Artery just above wrist; H, for Radial Artery just above wrist; I, for Superficial Palmar Arch. third part of its coui'se, i.e. internal to, beneath, or beyond the pectoralis minor muscle. Ligature of the first and third parts only call for separate description. Ligature of the First Part of the Axillary Artery.—A transverse, slightly curved incision with convexity downwards is made, correspond- ing in length with the middle two-fourths of the clavicle, and placed half an inch below the bone. The interval between the clavicular part of the pectoralis major muscle and the deltoid is now sought and opened, and the clavicular fibres of the great pectoral are divided close to the bone. The costo-coracoid membrane is now exposed and is divided trans- versely half an inch below the clavicle, and when by blunt dissection the areolar tissue has been cleared to either side, the artery is found deeply placed, with the corresponding vein lying partly on its inner side and partly superficial to it, whilst the cords of the brachial plexus are placed on its outer side. The vein being drawn inwards, the aneurysm needle is passed from below and within upwards and outwards. Ligature of tJie Third Part of the A.riUary Artery.—The arm being abducted, an incision three inches in length is made in the line of junction of the anterior third with the middle third of the axillary space between the anterior and posterior folds. This corresponds below to the inner margin of the prominence caused by the coraco-brachialis nmscle. This muscle, being exposed by division of skin and fascia, is drawn outwards, when the artery will be found with the median and musculo-cutaneous nerves on its outer side, the inner head of the median nerve superficial to it, and the ulnar and internal cutaneous nerves and the axillar}' vein on its inner side. The median nerve having been drawn outwards, the needle is to be passed from within outwards, i.e. from the vein. Collateral Circulation.—If the first part of the artery is ligated above the origin of the acioniio-thoracic artery, this is identical with that for the ligature of the third part of the subclavian. If the third part of the artery is 18