ARTERIES, DISEASES OF 262 wall becomes reduced in a number of different conditions such as general diseases, acute and chronic infective diseases, long-continued dis- turbances of general nutrition, by many poisonous substances, and by functional overstraining of arteries from an increase in the heart's action. As a result the vessel dilates and its lumen is enlarged. In the dilated vessels the blood- stream is retarded, and this leads to a new formation of connective tissue in the tunica intima of the dilated vessels. The new-formed tissue renders the vessel wall more firm and less yielding—a change in character which is recognised by the finger of the clinician during life. The explanation of these anatomical changes, according to Tlioma, is that the thickening of the intima is to compensate for, or to countei'balance the increase in, the size of the lumen, and thus to restore the relation between the capacity of the blood-tube and its contained blood. By this means he thinks the rapidity of the blood-flow is re-established. This theory is based on propositions which require consideration. The first of these is tliat arterial dilatation, that is, loss of arterial tone, occurs in a variety of circumstances. This can be accepted, although the use of the word " elasticity " instead of " tone " has led to misunderstanding. In medicine the word " elasticity " does not convey Thoma's meaning. The second proposition is that the loss of tone and consequent dilatation leads to slowing of the blood-stream. The third is that the re- tardation leads to a thickening of the tunica intima, the thickening being compensatory, and having for its object the lessening of the lumen of the arteries. This third proposition is a pure assumption ; mere slowing of arterial blood- stream cannot be accepted as determining a fibrous hyperplasia in the tunica intima. Were the presumption correct all persons with ab- normally slow pulses would show this change in their arteries. The supposed object or purpose seems a too clumsy arrangement for the attain- ment of equilibrium in a disturbance of the circulation. In the kidneys this supposed com- pensatory process does not cease with the establishment of compensation, but goes on to complete occlusion of arteries, which it could hardly do were it so purposely designed as Thoma thinks. The Proposed Use of the Word.—It has been already pointed out that the terms "atheroma" and " endarteritis deformans" are applied to definite changes in the arteries, the essential change being a special form of degeneration in the thickened intima. It is most imwise to extend these terms to thickenings of the intima which do not show these degenerative changes. Obliterative endarteritis, both syphilitic and non-syphilitic, show such thickening without atheromatous degeneration, and extensive end- arteritis of large arteries may be present with but little atheromatous degeneration. Such ' changes the clinical pathologist ought not to ! term atheroma. There is a common idea that ! a thickened intima is only an early stage of j atheroma, but this is quite inaccurate. Ather- ! oma ought to be strictly confined to vessels \ whose thickened intima shows the special de- ! generation which has been so long recognised, and is so universally known. It is necessary to 1 insist strongly on this point, as it clears the ! way for the consideration of the term " arterio- | sclerosis." This term etymologically signifies induration or hardening of the arterial wall, and ij it has been but comparatively recently intro- duced into English books. It is so used as to !; include atheroma ; indeed it sometimes appears that the word is used as a mere synonym for | atheroma, and as if all thickenings of arterial walls had atheromatous degeneration as their necessary or ordinary consequence. The in- clusion of atheroma under a term merely indi- cating hardening might be of small importance if imder the new term we had a satisfactory classification of all the various arterial changes characterised by hardening; but this is not supplied. The present writer holds that it is desirable to retain the term " atheroma " for the condition to which it has been so long applied ; and this raises the question as to the condition' to which the term " arteriosclerosis" may, without ambiguity, be applied. As already mentioned, the latter term is now used ex- tensively in clinical medicine to indicate an arterial change recognised clinically by a real or apparent thickening of the radial arteries, to which is sometimes added the observation of a like condition in other readily accessible arteries of somewhat similar size. The writer has availed himself of considerable opportunities he has had of examining the condition of the arteries, after death, in persons who presented during life the clinical features to which the term " arteriosclerotic" was applicable. In these cases it was found that atheroma was no usual or necessary part of the changes present. It was found that the thickening, and therefore hardening, of the radial arteries was due to a thickening of both the tunica media and the tunica intima. The former was due mainly to a hypertrophy of the special cells of that coat, while the latter resulted from a hyperplasia of the subendothelial tissue. This thickening of the timica intima is the condition to which Huchard, as representing the French school, applies the term arteriosclerosis, making it thus synonymous with endarteriolitis. It, how- | ever, differs from the obliterative endarteritis, to which reference has already been made in this article, in being a generalised condition. In ^ obliterative endarteritis the thickening of the 1 intima is essentially a localised and limited ! condition, and does not affect extensive tracts of vessels as arteriosclerosis is found to do. In the