BRAIN, TUMOURS OF 491 Athetosis.—Except as an accompaniment of hemiplegia (an unusual one in tumours), athetosis is rare, and has usually been met with in neoplasms in the region of the optic thalairius. Tremor and inco-ordination have also been symptoms of tumours in the same situation, but are more characteristic of growths in the cerebellum, though those of the corpora quadri- gemina and pons may also be attended by like phenomena. Pressure on the pyramidal path by a tumour of the pons or crus has been known to give rise to a coarse, jerky tremor, like that seen in disseminated sclerosis, and, as in that affection, has only been evoked on attempts at voluntaiy movement. AiMplectic attachs may result from hfemor- rhage in connection with a vascular tumour, while in other cases the attacks are rather pseudo-apoplectic, a sudden accession of intra- cranial pressure from some cause, vascular dis- turbance which occasions cedema or congestion, or irritative inhibition by the tumour possibly accounting for some of these seizures. How- ever induced, these attacks may result in death. Mental disturbance of some sort or other is common in cases of intracranial tumour, espe- cially in the later stages of their course. A variable amoiuit of hebetude is the most common condition; little interest is taken in his sur- roundings by the jaatient, and questions have to be repeated more than once before a reply can be elicited from him. All degrees of this mental apathy are met with up to actual coma, but on rousing such a patient sufficiently his replies are of a character which prove that there is no real perversion of his intellect. In some cases there is alteration of manner, in others irritability, or loss of memory, or emotional disturbance. True insanity is rare, but melancholia, mania, and dementia all occur. It is not improbable tliat the true explanation of such cases is that the tumour serves to evoke the manifestations of the particular variety of insanity in one predisjjosed. Cerebral tumours that give rise to mental symptoms may be unattended by the more usual phenomena by which intracranial growths are recognised, so that such patients are sent to asylums, where the real nature of their malady is unsuspected until the end is approaching, or is only revealed on necropsy. It is probable, however, that fewer of these cases will go so long unrecognised when the ophthalmoscope comes to be more habitually used in all asylums. Hysterical manifestations may certainly be evoked in this way, and may lead to error in that the organic affection may be overlooked in the presence of undoubted evidences of hysteria. In some cases the clinical picture resembles that of a person suffering from general paralysis of the insane. Much difference of opinion exists as to whether tumours of the frontal lobe are more liable to give rise to psychical disturbance than those in other situations. My own experience leads me to believe that mental deterioration is especially common in frontal tumours, but that to be of any value in localisation two reserva- tions are essential. The mental defect must be manifest early in the history of the illness, and something more than mere lethargy nmst lie present. Hebetude is, however, not without some value if it is a symptom early in the history of a case, at a time when it seems reasonable to conjecture that there is not as yet much increase of intracranial pressure. There is no reason to suppose that true insanity is more liable to occur with tumoiu's in this situa- tion than with those in any other part of the brain, though a mental state comparable to that met with in general paralysis of the insane is sometimes observed in frontal tumours. The mental disturbance is oftentimes very slight, a mere oddness of manner, a peculiar childish- ness, irritability, or some other form of change of character, failure of mental power leading to mistakes in manual as well as in more purely mental operations, failure of memory, and the like. Localising Symptoms.—Aphasia.—It is re- markable how seldom either motor or sensory aphasia which is pronounced, and which persists, is produced by a cerebral tumour. Reduction of a patient's capabilities of speech to " yes " and " no " probably never occurs as a result of an uncomplicated tumour, though such complete aphasia may, of course, result where the neoplasm is complicated by hBemorrhage or softening. Tumours tend to displace the nerve elements to a greater degree than to destroj' them, in addition to which such destruction as results takes place gradually, and there is thus time for substitution and compensation to come about through the agency of parts luiaffected in the same and in the opposite cereljral hemi- sphere. On the other hand, marked but fleet- ing aphasia not uncommonly follows a con- vulsive attack, and some aphasia, either motor or sensory, may form part of the clinical picture if the tumour is situated in or near any of the cortical areas of the left cerebral hemisphere which are concerned with speech processes. Paralyses of various kinds are met with, and most of them are of considerable localising value. Hemiplegia may of course result from tumours in very different situations, provided they be so placed as to be capable of exerting a deleterious influence on any part of the motor path from the cerebral cortex to the spinal cord ; but graduated paralysis, as a rule, points to the Rolandic region of the cortex as the seat of mischief, and, moreover, the variety of paralysis is a more certain indication of the seat of tumour than is localised convidsion. Hemiplegia and monoplegia are the common