BALNEOLOGY 345 one by the other (Head). Such a relation between deep and superficial parts goes far to explain the influence of sedative or stimulating cutaneous applications in visceral disorders. A general connection between the skin (external superficies) and the niucous membranes (internal superficies) is probal ile on developmental grounds, and is confirmed by experience of the effects of baths in gastro-intestinal catarrh. Evidence is also furnished by the distribution of exanthcms, and the internal lesions—intestinal, pulmonic, nephritic, etc.—met with in superficial burns. The existence of such a connection was affirmed l)y Hippocrates in the aphorism : alvi laxitas cutis densitas, cutis raritas n/vi clensitas. Of the various elements — heat, moisture, chemical and mechanical stimulation — that enter into the action of baths, heat and mois- ture arc common factors, the effects of which upon the several functions of the skin can be definitely stated. Chemical and mechanical stimulation belong to certain forms of baths, and will be considered in connection with them. Effects of Heat—{a) On the heat-regulating function.—The effect pi'oduced on the bodily heat varies with the temperature of the bath. There is no change in heat production or 'loss when the body is immersed in water at 93° to 95° F. This is therefore stated to be the point of thermal indifference for aqueous baths. Baths at about 93° F., of from 15 to 25 minutes duration, may therefore be called athermal in their effect on the body. At lower tempera- tures baths increase the loss of heat in propor- tion to their coldness, and sometimes to a very great extent. The production of heat in the body is, however, correspondingly augmented, and in a cold bath it may be increased three- or four-fold (Liebermeister). Cold applications do not, therefore, lower the bodily tcmperatm-e in normal conditions of heat production, unless the hath be much prolonged. ]?aths below 93° F. are hypothermal in their effect upon the body. They differ from baths at a higher temperature in the same way as minus differs from plus, and liave an important therapeutic range. Baths at a temperature above 93° may be conveniently designated as subthernml from 93° to 98° F., and tlierinal from 98° F. and upwards. Such baths produce an accumulation of heat by checking its normal loss. When the loss of iieat is entirely prevented the body temperature may rise as much as 4-5° in half an hour (Liebermeister, quoted by Leichtenstern). Hot innnersion, and vapour baths in particular, rapidly augment the body heat and produce an artificial pyrexia. {b) On tissue cliange.—Applications of cold, which increase the loss and ])rodnction of heat and the excretion of carbonic acid gas, are be- lieved to augment the conversion of fat (Voit). Experiments have shown that thermal baths, on the other hand, which check the loss of heat and raise the body temperature, increase the metabolism not only of the fats but of the nitrogenous tissues, with increased excretion of urea (Leichtenstern, Godlewsky). Such a residt may indeed be expected on a priori grounds to arise in a condition of artificial fever. A full elucidation of the effects of the various kinds of baths on tissue change, and especially of the local application of cold and heat, is still desiderated. Baths increase the glandular activity of the skin in proportion to their temperature. In a hot bath the quantity of perspiration is greatly in- creased, with a proportionate loss of body-weight. (c) On blood-vessels and circulation.—It is not surprising that baths should exercise a powerful effect on the circulation and distriliution of the blood if it be remembered that they operate on the most extensive vascidar area of the body. The temperatiu-e of the skin in any part depends on the amount of arterial blood circulating in it. In diiferent parts of the body the superficial temperature in health is commonly from 5° to 12° F. or more below that of the internal organs (Kunkel). Hence it is that, as sensations of tem- perature are derived wholly from the skin, baths a few degrees below blood-heat generally feel warm. 1. In baths at a temperature lower than that of the skin a protective contraction of the peri- pheral vessels takes place ("increased vaso- motor tone ") proportionate to the difference of temperature. There is at the same time a rise of blood-pressiu'e and increased force of the cai'diac systole. The pulse is at first accelerated and then retarded (Winternitz). Increased tonus and diminished blood supply in the super- ficial parts, or those exposed to cold, are accom- panied by a corresponding diminution of tone and increase of blood supply in the viscera, or in parts not so exposed. The circulation is therefore to some extent short-circuited. In the rabbit dilatation of the vessels of the jyia mater has been observed on application of cold to the abdomen (Schiiler). Similarly a cold sitz bath increases the circulation in the upper parts of the body (Winternitz). The vascular tonus quickljr reaches its maximum, and ultimately relaxes if the exposure to cold continue, with a I'apid loss of internal heat. The relaxation of the capillaries, whilst the arterioles and venules are still contracted, is indicated by a blue-red colour of the skin. 2. In warmer baths, at a temperature at or above that of the skin, but below l)lood heat, the action on the circulation is entirely different, and baths of this kind, especially when com- bined with vai'ious foi'ms of cutaneous stimula- tion, have a high value in cardio-vascular dis- orders. Their general effect is tranquillising and sedative, they withdraw heat to a moderate extent, and, by diminishing the vaso - motor action of peripheral parts, they invite the blood into the extremities and the skin. 3. Lastly, the effect of thermal liaths is to