AMBLYOPIA 117 a white background, the patient complains of difficulty in recognising faces. He is able to read, but finds that external objects present in many cases a smudged, more or less washed-out, appearance. This is due to increasing difficulty in recognising differences in light intensity. Contrast in luminosity has to be much greater than for the normal eye before it can lie properly appreciated. The various features of a face are not, under ordinary conditions, very greatly differentiated as to light and shade, and there- fore readily become difficult of recognition where the light-sense is altered in this way. The colour-sense is impaired mostly for the red-green series of sensations, corresponding pretty closely, though not absolutely, to what characterises cases of congenital so-called colour- blindness (q.v.). The diminution in visual acuity is an evidence of the form-sense defect, but the extent of the defect in this sense, as in that of colour, varies in different parts of the scotoma, being most marked at its mid-point. Patients suffering from toljacco amblyopia do not complain of any pain in the eyes, and beyond such conditions of ill-health as pre- existed, and may even be assumed to have predisposed, in the way above referred to, to the poisoning, are otherwise in good health. It may be noted more particularly that there are no constant concomitant disturbances in connec- tion with other parts of the nervous system. Curiously enougli, and especially when they belong to the working-classes, patients rarely present themselves for special treatment until the vision is considerably impaired, so as to amount to not more than one-eighth or one- tenth of normal. No doul)t, were the affection more generally understood, it might frequently V)e diagnosed at a much earlier stage. Because, although sometimes the symptoms rapidly develop, the onset is usually slow, and as in many other toxic conditions the sooner the use of tlio cumulative poison is discontinued the more quickly are its effects removed. There are no evident objective signs associated with tobacco amblyopia. The ophthalmoscopic examination is, practically speaking, negative. Some writers have described a certain degree of blurring of the margins of the optic discs indica- tive of neuritis. Some, again, have ascribed importance to the greater degree of pallor which the outer halves of the discs often present. In the majority of cases, however, it is difficult to satisfy oneself that the visible intra-ocular ends of the nerves show any sign of abnormality. In old-standing cases tliere is certainly often enough the pallor referred to; but this is by no means characteristic, and cannot be regarded as having any diagnostic importance. Recently retinal macular changes have been described as asso- ciated with the amblyopia. These, if they do exist, are sufficiently slight to escape the notice of most observers, even when they have been specially looked for. Diagnosis.—The points by which the diagnosis of tobacco amblyopia is estal)lished are : The history of the abuse or use of tobacco in some form, the, usually only gradual, failure of sight equally in both eyes, the existence of a central scotoma readily clemonstrable for red or green, the normal extent of the field of vision and functional activity of the retina in all parts not corresponding to the scotoma, and lastly the absence of ophthalmoscopic signs. The central scotoma alone occurring in both eyes of a man of about forty years of age or older, who is at the same time a smoker, is of itself strongly suggestive of tobacco amblyopia. In much younger people it is well to make a more careful examination of the exact extent of the scotoma, and to watch particularly for sub- sequent ophthalmoscopic changes. There is a form of hereditary atrophy of the optic nerve which at first presents symptoms which might readily be mistaken for those of tobacco amblyopia. Cases of this nature, besides occurring almost invariably before the age of thirty-five and usually about twenty, are characterised by a much greater irregularity in the shape and extent of the scotoma. The visual acuity is, moreover, generally very different in the two eyes, the blindness being more marked on the one than the other. Finally, it is not long before very evident atrophic pallor of the discs makes its appearance. Apart from such cases, which are not connnon, there are others in which a differ- ential diagnosis may have to be made. Retro- bulbar neuritis, for instance, may be associated with such slight ophthalmoscopic changes that, when the history leaves one in doubt, it is necessary to investigate the nature of the scotoma in either eye. The scotoma is in such cases never so clearly circumscribed as in toxic central amblyopia, and usually very different in the two eyes. Again, in order to differentiate between the affections under consideration and certain forms of tabetic bli')id7iess, it is well to make a routine practice of testing the knee-jerk. In case of absence of this tendon reflex, especially if com- bined with the suspicious ajapearance of the discs, it is advisable to give a guarded diagnosis, even when the history might lead one to expect tobacco blindness. It is not impossible, too, that tabetic atrophy, which occasionally begins with central scotomata, might be associated with the toxic form of amblyopia from tobacco. In cases where a doubt of this arises, the peripheral limits of the field of vision should be very care- fully determined. When the cause is wholly or in part tabes, the limits are always restricted in some directions, even though only slightlj'. It is also possible that cases of chronic glau-