BALNEOLOGY 360 baths. The best known of the Salt Springs of Japan are Atami and Isobe. Balneo-Therapeutics.—Treatment of disease by baths. See Balneology. Balsams.—Kesins dissolved in volatile oils constitute oleo-resins, and these when mixed with benzoic or cinnamic acid, or with both, are the balsams of the Pharmacopoeia. See Bal- SAMUM Peruvianum ; Prescribing ; Pharma- cology : Styrax. Balsamum Peruvianum.—Bal sam of Peru is got from a tree [Myroxylon Pereirce) of the natural order of the Legu- minoste, after the bark has been scorched and removed. It is a liquid, and contains resins along wdth a volatile oil (containing cinnamin, styracin, peruvin, styrone, and benzoate of benzyl), and cinnamic and benzoic acids (which give the agreeable odour). Externally it is a disinfectant and a parasiticide (scabies), and is also used as a stimulating application for indo- lent ulcers and cracked nipples. Internally, it is a stimulating expectorant and a carminative. Dose — 5 to 15 m., as an emulsion. See also Drug Eruptions. Balsamum Tolutanum.—Balsam of Tolu is a solid obtained from Myroxylon toluifera; like balsam of Peru, it has an agree- able odour, and dissolves easily in alcoliol (not in water). It is given (in doses of 5 to 15 grains) in an emulsion as a stimulating expec- torant. Its preparations are the Syrupus Tolu- tayius (dose, | to 1 fl. dr.), which is contained in the Mistura Ammoniaci; and the Tinctura Tolu- tana (dose, ^ to 1 fl. dr.), which is contained in the lozenges of carbolic acid, of morphine, and of morphine and ipecacuanha. Balsam of Tolu contains toluene, benzoate of benzyl, cinnamate of benzyl, vanallin, tolu-i-esinotanuol, and cin- namic and benzoic acids. Balz'S Disease.—A malady in which the mucous glands of the lips, especially the lower lip, enlarge and show much swelling and infiltration; the ducts are dilated ; and a mucous or mnco - purulent secretion can be squeezed out. Bandag^es: Varieties and Method of Application. Introduction ..... 360 The Triangular Bandage . . . 360 The Roller Bandage : Method of Applying 360 The Spica Bandage The Breast Bandage The Capelline Bandage The Eye Bandage The Bandage for a Stump Gauze Bandages: Varieties and Methods of Preparation Made Bandages . . . . . 362 Many-tailed T-Bandages Fixed Bandages ..... 362 Starch Bandage Gum and Chalk Bandage Paraffin Bandage Silicate Bandage Plaster of Paris Bandage Rubber Bandages ..... 363 Esmarch^s Bandage Martinis Bandage See also First Aid ; Ankle-Joint, Region of ; etc. Bandages vary in their make, quality, and method of application, to suit the purpose they are required to serve. They are employed to keep in place splints, dressings, and surgical appliances; to exercise unifoi'm pressure upon a part, as in the sprains and the inflammation of joints; or to support the circulation, as in the treatment of varicose veins. The different varieties of bandage may be grouped under the headings of triangular band- ages, roller bandages, many-tailed bandages, and shaped bandages. The Triangular Bandage is the simplest, and is often known as Mayor's or Esmarch's, the first aid or the military bandage, since it is chiefly used on field service to keep the tem- porary dressings in place. It is made by cutting diagonally across a square metre of linen or calico. It is used in three forms, either unfolded, when it is known as " the whole cloth " ; folded, so that the point or apex of the triangle is carried to the centre of the lower border, and then folded again in the same direction—the " broad bandage "; or the broad bandage is again folded lengthwise to make the " narrow bandage." The whole cloth is very useful as a sling for the entire arm, and it is also employed to keep dressings in place in wounds of the head, chest, back, hands, or feet. The broad-fold bandage is a good sling when it is only necessary to support the forearm or hand, and is serviceable in the treatment of broken ribs; whilst the narrow-fold bandage is used to keep splints in place in the treatment of frac- tures. The bandage is fastened off by knotting its ends, reef-knots being alwaj's employed, and pins used as seldom as possible. Roller Bandages.—These are employed in civil surgery as well as in all military hospitals. They consist of tightly rolled and continuous strips without seam or selvage, measuring from three to eight yards in length, and from three- quarters of an inch to three inches in width. They are made of calico, linen, flannel, domette, crinoline, gauze, or rubber. Calico and linen were alone employed until the introduction into surgery of antiseptic methods replaced them, in many instances, by strips of medicated or steri- I