ANEURYSM 186 deaths after amputation; and one, if not two, other cases narrowly escaped gangrene. Such results naturally lead once more to the question of excision, which Delbet advocates even here. There are really no statistics to go upon. Un- less the circumstances are very favourable, operation on an aneurysm in the iliac fossa will be difficult, and may necessitate the division of Poupart. Control of the circulation by finger above the aneurysm should, of course, be obtained ; the epigastric might be tied early in the abdominal wall. The objection that the profunda must often be tied is of little weight, for it is tied only when opening into the sac, and cure cannot occur after ligature, etc., unless it is closed. The results of excision, however, have still to be worked out. Gluteal and Sciatic Aneurysms are usually connected with wounds, contusions, or fractures of the pelvis; many are arterial hfematomata. Of thirty cases, twenty-one were gluteal, nine sciatic. They occur chiefly in men. Symptoms.—These develop rapidly in cases of diffuse hfematomata, more slowly in circum- scribed haematomata and aneurysms. In the latter, pain and other evidence of pressure on nerves first occur — then swelling, deep, fixed, poorly outlined, pulsating. The other signs of aneurysm are present. It enlarges steadily or by leaps ; sometimes remaining long stationary, possibly undergoing consolidation; but usually passing on to rupture into the connective tissue or externally. Diagnosis.—The first thing is to make out whether there is any intrapelvic portion. Next to eliminate pulsating sarcoma. Lastly to en- deavour to decide by the situation or the history of the point of appearance of the swelling whether it is gluteal or sciatic. Treatment.—This lies between transperitoneal ligature of the internal iliac and excision of the sac. The latter has been done several times with good results; but it is difficult undoubtedly. As a rule it has been done without controlling the circulation; but a finger could be safely placed on the internal iliac. A great difficulty would arise if it were discovered at the operation that a portion of a gluteal sac was intrapelvic ; if the artery could be clipped, the forceps might be left on. But ligature of the internal iliac would be the safer treatment. Angfeiectasia.—Dilatation of the blood- vessels, especially of the capillaries of the skin ; angeiochalasis; angeioderma. See Arteries, Diseases of. A n ge i i t i S.—Inflammation of blood-vessels. See Arteries, Diseases of. Angeiokeratoma.—A disease of the skin, especially of the limbs of patients with weak circulation, characterised by the appear- ance of purple spots (dilated veins), on which develop warty growths. Angeiolipoma.—An angeioma contain- j ing adipose tissue. | Angfeiolog'y.—The department of Ana- ; tomy which is concerned with the blood-vessels, , including the arteries, veins, and lymphatics. Angeioma.—A new formation, usually congenital, consisting generally of capillaries increased in number or in size ; the most common form is known as the plexiform angeioma. See Bone, Diseases op {Tumours of); Capillaries, i Diseases of ; Electrolysis ; Larynx, Benign Growths of ; Mammary Gland, Diseases of 1 [Neoplasms); Tumours (Angeiomata); and Um- i bilious, Diseases of. | Angeioneurectomy. — In its strict ! meaning angeioneurectomy is the excision of 3 vessels and nerves; but, as most commonly 1 employed, it is the operation, performed for en- i larged prostate, in which all the elements of the ' spermatic cord except the vas deferens with its •! artery and vein are resected. See Prostate ! Gland. |, AngeioneurOSiS. — Disturbed or de- \ ranged vaso-inotor action exhibiting itself in | various ways, and especially as redness, or 1 pallor, or oedema of the skin. See Angeio- j neurotic GEdema. | Angeioneurotic GEdema. See also Urticaria.—This morbid state, known also ' by the names of Quincke's Disease, angeio- neureedema, and acute circumscribed oedema o f the skin, was first described in 1882 by Quincke; it has since been closely studied by Striibing, ^ Leyden, Osier, and many others. j Symptoms and Physical Signs.—It is a local- ised swelling of the skin which may affect ' almost any part of the body, but commonly occurs in the eyelids, cheeks, hands, feet, geni- j tals, and other parts of the face and limbs. It i is transitory in character, but is apt to recur, ^ and may become chronic. From the patho- | logical standpoint it consists in a vascular | change, an oedema, with an exudate into the j subcutaneous and cutaneous tissues of serum or j blood or of both combined. It is accompanied ; by some degree of redness of the swollen part, ■ by a sense of tightness, of biirning, of throbbing, or of itching, and by oedema, the part pitting upon pressure. The swelling may be hemi- spherical or flattened, and is always sharply circumscribed; although each individual swell- ing may persist only for a few hours or a day or two, a series of effusions in different parts of , the body may constitute an illness of a long • duration. The associated visceral phenomena are of great interest. They consist in swelling of the fauces, oedema of the glottis (leading 1 I