172 ANEURYSM It thus became established that, in a large number of cases of aneurysm, cure could be effected by proximal ligature at a distant point, provided no large branch arose between; but even this is not a certain bar to cure. Mode of Cure.—There is only one, viz. the obliteration of the sac and of the artery whence it springs by clot, and later by their conversion into fibrous tissue. In the majority of cases clotting in the sac and artery is rapid, and the clot, doubtless, red. The artery is obliterated at two points after Hunter's operation: at the seat of ligature and at the aneurysm, the artery between being usually patent. The two obstruc- tions run together after Anel's operation. Clinical Effects of Ligature.—As the thread is tightened, pulsation in the sac and distal vessels ceases; the sac shrinks considerably; the limb becomes pale ; its temperature tends to fall; and it feels heavy and dead. In the course of a few hours the limb is often hypertemic, all its vessels being dilated as the direct and reflex effects of the anaemia, and in this state its surface tempera- ture may be higher than that of the normal limb. Soon superficial arteries, not previously noticeable,—e.g. those around the patella,—can be felt enlarged to carry on the collateral circula- tion. The hypersemic state does not last many hours; the temperature then falls to below that of the other limb, and nutrition generally remains more or less sub-normal. The sac usually hardens within twenty-four hours, and steadily becomes smaller and harder. After three or four weeks it should be quite hard, and much reduced in size, though it takes a long time to complete the absorption of a large mass of old clot. The patient may begin to get about, as a rule, ii:i a month. Treatment.—After ligature of a main trunk the limb should be wrapped in a thick layer of cotton wool, placed with its distal extremity slightly raised to favour venous return, and hot bottles should be put under the clothes around, but not in contact, with the limb. The finger- tips or toes should be easily exposed, and their colour and circulation should be often examined. Increasing congestion and oedema demand some- what greater elevation of the foot, and long- continued upward massage. Success has followed proximal ligature (aseptic) in about 86 per cent of all cases, failure in 10 per cent, death in 3 per cent, gangrene in 10 per cent. Accidents after Ligature—Secondary Hcemor- rhage.—This should be treated by re-ligature in the wound, the vessel being traced up and down to beyond the region of septic arteritis, every attempt being made to render the wound aseptic. Proximal ligature, hard by but through healthy tissues, may succeed. Amputation at the seat of ligature is the final remedy in litnbs. Suppuration of the Sac : generally, but not always, connected with a septic ligature in its neighbourhood. It is most common in the neck, axilla, and groin. Treatment—that of cellulitis ; incision, aseptic and free, as soon as pus is detected—too soon rather than too late. If the sac suppurates, incise and plug, or excise. Haemorrhage may be dealt with by excision and ligature, unless the part be greatly damaged by the suppuration and life threatened; then amputate above the aneurysm. Recurrent pulsation is due (1) to some imper- fection in tying the ligature. This may not have been tied sufficiently tightly to occlude the vessel, either on account of clumsiness of the ligature or of over-anxiety to avoid rupturing the inner coats, or because the pulsation of the artery has loosened the first knot before the second was added; or the knot may have come undone soon after closure of the wound. (2) To imperfection in the ligature rendering it liable to too rapid absorption. This happened with some early specimens of catgut. (3) To the rapid establishment of a too free collateral circulation, so that blood in a brisk stream soon reaches the main trunk below the ligature. This is the common cause. Recurrent pulsation is a common phenomenon during the first few days after proximal ligature. Rarely it occurs months or years after supposed cure. It varies in strength from the slightest perceptible movement, which may gradually increase to pulsation as strong as before the operation. Usually it dies away, or if it does not, is easily stopped by simple treatment. It may persist. The aneurysm of which it is the seat is often much smaller and firmer, but when the patient gets about it will yield slowly or rapidly. Treatment.— Should the pulsation not dis- appear during the period of healing of the wound and recovery from the operation, it should, if slight, be treated by still further diminishing the supply to the sac by elevation, bandaging, or compression. If marked, a care- ful consideration of its cause is necessary. If the artery is pulsating at the seat of liga- ture the sooner it is re-ligatured the better; but it is not always possible to be sure of this. The nature of the ligature, the strength of the pulsation, the effect of compression between the ligature and the sac, the effect of compression of great collateral branches and of the main trunk beyond the sac should all be tried, and the most proVjable conclusion drawn. When the artery has been tied immediately above the sac {e.g. end of ext. iliac for common femoral aneurysm), the wovmd should be reopened, if there is any reason to suspect the ligature, and the vessel retied. If the ligature is not at fault in a case such as this, or in axillary or subclavian aneurysm, the choice would lie between seeking and tying the most likely collateral branches, e.g. epigastric and deep circumflex iliac, and excising the sac. In the