254 APPENDICITIS four hours; this greatly relieves the patient. If the bowels do not move after forty-eight hours the patient should be given half a grain of calomel every hour for six hours, or five grains at one time. This, followed by Rochelle salts, is very eff"ective. Calomel can easily be taken, even when the patient has a sick stomach. In some cases salines act very effectivelj', but in others the patient cannot retain them. In one apparently hopeless case, in which the writer operated, where there had been free pus in the abdomen and a gangrenous appendix, and where the operation was performed on the fifth day as a forlorii hope, the bowels, which were appai'ently paralysed b}' sepsis, could not be got to act by any method or the use of any drug. At the request of the patient, a medical man, half a grain or more of morphia was injected hypo- dermically to relieve pain, and it not only did this, but seemed to stimulate the bowels, so that peristalsis was excited and a free move- ment resulted. The patient made an excellent, though slow, recovery. In the cases in which operation has lieen per- formed at a late period, or where thei'e has never been any localised exudate, to protect the peritoneum from the results of perforation and general peritonitis, the treatment must be somewhat different. After the abdomen has been opened by a free incision and the diseased appendix removed, the patient should be turned on his side and as much pus as possible allowed to escape; the abdomen should then be flushed copiously with hot normal saline solution (3.j.-0j.), and all pus washed out—when the solution comes away clear the flushing may be discontinued. Some of the solution may be left in the abdomen, for it acts as a stimulus to the heart and promotes intestinal drainage. During the washing out the irrigating tube must be thrust into all the holes and corners of the abdomen. Sterile gauze should now be introduced in all directions, also down into the pelvis, to the stump, and up the right flank. The ends of the strips of gauze should be brought out of the lower end of the wound, which has been only partially closed. When the patient is leaving the operating table \ grain of morphia, with gr. of atropine, may be given hypodermically, and stimulating and nutritious enemata frequently administered. It is also very important that the bowels should be got to act as soon as possible; the best remedy in these cases is calomel. There are many other methods made use of in such cases. Some recommend the taking out of the intestines and washing them by pouring hot saline solution over them. Others get an assistant to hold up the edges of the wound, and then the abdomen is filled with the saline solution; and the operator, with one hand holding the flushing tube, stirs the bowels about with the other, being careful to wash out the pelvis, lesser sac, the recesses about the liver, spleen, and other places. M'Cosh advo- cates in these cases "the injection into the small intestines of an ounce of magnesium sulphate in a saturated solution, the needle puncture being generally closed by a Lembert suture," also the administration of ten grains of calomel as soon as the patient recovers from the anaesthetic. In cases where vomiting persists, washing out the stomach is often of great service. M'Cosh reports nine cases of general peritonitis, with three recoveries, treated by his method. In cases of general peritonitis, the earlier the operation the better the results : though all the cases are desperate, yet by the meaias men- tioned above an occasional one may be saved. Methods of treating the Stump.—Very many methods have been devised for removing the stump, some simple and some elaborate—the simpler the method the better. Tying off with catgut and removing with scissors, then cauteris- ing the cut surface and lumen freely with the fine point of a thermo-cautery, has given in my hands as good results as any of the more elaborate methods, all of which have been tried and abandoned ; methods such as inverting the stump into the caecum, and then closing with Lembert sutures, making a cuff' of peritoneum and covering the end of the stump, invaginating the stump and closing the opening with a con- tinuous purse-string suture as recommended by Dawbarn, and other methods without number. All the elaborate methods take time, and give no better results than the simpler method mentioned above. Appendicitis complicating Pregnancy In these the attack begins with sudden and severe abdominal pain, which afterwards be- comes localised, vomiting, and fever. It may be confounded with extra - uterine pregnancy. When complicated with pregnancy the prognosis is always grave. [During the past few years physicians and surgeons have been occupied in attempting to delimit more accurately the indications for opei'ation in cases of appendicitis. The two extremes of practice are found in the physician who still treats his patients with morphia, and in the surgeon who never opens the abdomen for any purpose but he takes the opportunity of removing the appendix vermiformis as a prophy- lactic measure. W. A. Baker {Amer. Journ. Ohstet. lii. 240, 1905), in an article entitled " Reasons for removing the Vermiform Ap- pendix in nearly all cases where the Abdomen is opened for other Lesions," states that the appearances of the organ at the time of opera- tion are unreliable, for microscopic examination afterwai'ds may show signs of disease, and that therefore the appendix should be removed