486 BRAIN, AFFECTIONS OF BLOOD-VESSELS principles, to wliich we have alluded, of treat- ment in thrombosis must be followed, there must be associated with this the active administration of iodide of potassium, and along with this of mercury. The latter in such cases especially is undoubtedly most efficaciously administered by means of inunction, and the patient must be as rapidly as possible brought under the influence of the drug. This will be indicated by the con- dition of the gums, and when he is once under the effect of mercury this ought to be kept up for some time in a mild degree. As we have already said, it does not follow that because a vessel is blocked by syphilitic disease this can be entirely got rid of by the most energetic treat- ment, and disappointment is often met with in what are apparently promising cases. Still, in every case in which there is a likelihood of the disease being syphilitic, the patient must have such energetic treatment as we have described, in order, if possible, to get rid of the diseased condition of the vessel walls which renders thrombosis so easy. Such, then, are the general principles on which treatment should be carried out at the onset of an attack of htemorrhage, embolism, or thrombosis. Treatment of Paralysis.—We must now direct attention to the measures which are necessary for the paralysis which is found to be present when the initial stage has been passed. We may begin by stating that, as a general rule, in all cases of hemiplegia there is a tendency for recovery to take place to a certain extent. In the great majority the leg improves more than the arm, and in very few cases of hemi- plegia is it the case that walking power remains entirely absent. So that, however apparently hopeless any particular case is as to locomotion in the early stages, one is always justified in holding out hopes to the patient of his being- able to get about. The most troublesome thing is the contracture which is apt to take place in the arm. This can usually be obviated, at all events to a great extent, by early commencing to use massage and passive movements. Some- times, also, it is useful to electrify the extensor muscles of the forearm, because flexor contracture is what is most apt to take place, and stimula- tion of the extensors will to some extent tend to prevent the over-action of the flexors {vide " De- formities "). These really embody the general principles on which any case of hemiplegia should be treated. As regards bed-sores, and other trophic changes which occur during this stage, these, of course, are a matter of nursing and dressing according to ordinary surgical principles. There is no doubt that in cases of intractable bed-sores the internal administration of opium favours the healing of those. In reference to the other trophic changes, that occurring about the shoulder is very difficult to deal with, because the pain in the early stage is often so great as to prevent passive movement being carried out. If adhesion have taken place it may be necessary to administer an ansesthetic, such as nitrous oxide gas, and forcibly move the arm at this joint. If, further, there is evidence of involvement of the brachial plexus, anodyne applications, such as glycerine and belladonna, or even the hypodermic injection of morphia, may be necessary, for the"condition is one of great pain, and is apt to very much reduce the patient's strength. When the pain has subsided the use of galvanism with massage, in order to stimulate the impaired structures, is necessary. As to treatment by drugs, of course much is not to be expected from the use of those in favouring recovery. But ordinary tonics, such as strychnia, digitalis where thrombosis has been the initial lesion, and these combined with others when the cardiac condition in cases of embolism has been such as to demand them, embrace the drugs which are most commonly necessary. Of course if convulsions occur they are, as a rule, fairly easily controlled by means of bromide. But one must be careful that the dose used is not too large, otherwise grave mental phenomena, transient usually, may supervene. Brain, Tumours of. Etiology ...... 486 Morbid Anatomy ..... 487 Pathology ...... 487 Symptoms ...... 488 General. Local. Diagnosis . . . . . • . 494 General. Regional. Prognosis ...... 497 Treatment ...... 498 Etiology. — Like tumours in other situations, there is much that is obscure with regard to the causation of those of the brain, but we are nevertheless in possession of certain definite facts bearing on this question. Some cerebral tumours are congenital in origin. The rare instances of dermoid cysts and teratomata belong to this group, while syphilomata are sometimes congenital, and probably even gliomata may arise in this way in exceptional cases. From what has just been said, it follows that heredity may be operative in the causation of syphilo- mata, and there is reason to suppose that the same factor may play a part in the etiology of tubercle and carcinoma. No period of life is exempt, except it be the first six months, which supply no clinical evi- dence of the existence of tumour. The largest number of cases are met with between puberty and the middle period of life, while only a