AORTA (THORACIC), ANEURYSM AND DILATATION OF 232 equally good result. On the other hand, when, owing to pressure of the sac on the trachea or bronchi, secretion has accumulated in the tubes behind the obstruction, this treatment is fraught with danger, unless care is taken to begin with what may seem absurdly small doses, although assisted by cyanosis these may accomplish the object for which they are given. In the treat- ment of pain due to pressure on the Ijodies of the vertebr£e, on the other hand, morphia may be fearlessly "pushed" to the accomplishment of its object—the relief or removal of pain. There need be no apprehension in such cases of creating an " opium-eater " or morphio-maniac, provided the diagnosis be secure. There is no reason, either, to consider the " individual capacity for pain." The ordinary treatment of sufferers from intrathoracic aneurysm implies a prolonged rest in the recumbent posture—promoting "physio- logical rest" as far as such is possible to the circulatory apparatus. It is impossible to lay down the duration of such period of recumbency in individual cases—usually six to eight weeks suffice, the patient being gradually allowed to get up and move about. Harassing restrictions of fluid and food the writer deprecates ; at the same time, common sense dictates abstinence from stimulants and stimulating food, and the taking of no more food and drink than are necessary to remove the pangs of hunger and thirst. Good nursing, in which is included the management of the bowels, and of the acts of micturition and defsecation, as well as the " making of the bed," is of supreme importance, and even in the houses of the poor, thanks to District Nurses, the friends of the patient can now receive efficient practical instruction in matters of the kind. Of therapeutic means — other than for the relief of pain—the writer will refer to only one, the iodide of potassium, which he has employed for the last twenty-six years in the treatment of aneurysm, and in which his faith has somewhat waned. He knows, however, no better drug, nor any so good, and is by no means disposed to deny that its effect "makes for betterness." Long ago he was suspicious of the frequent acceleration of the pulse in cases of aneurysm being associated with the iodide treatment, and he was much interested in the more recent avowal of this belief by Dr. G. W. Balfour, to whom medical men generally, and aneurysm patients specially, owe siich a debt of gratitude for vigorous therapeutic efforts on their behalf. The rules laid down by Dr. Balfour are to ascer- tain the " normal" rate of the patient's pulse before beginning the iodide treatment, to begin with moderate doses (10 grs.), and to be guided by their effect on the pulse-rate as to their in- crease. He tells us that " it is only rarely that we can increase the dose to 15 grains (every eight hours) without raising the pulse-rate." Aortitis. See Arteries, Diseases of {Acute Aortitis). Apa.nthropia..—A morbid love of soli- tude. Apenta,.—A mineral aperient water con- taining mucli sodium and magnesium sulphate. See Balneology (Austria,). Aperients.—Gently acting purgatives ; laxatives. See Constipation ; Pharmacology ; etc. Apex Beat. See Heart, Myocardium AND Endocardium ; Physiology (Circulation). Aphakia,.—Absence (or displacement) of the crystalline lens. See Eyeball, Injuries of. Aphasia. Definition ...... 232 Varieties of Aphasia .... 233 Anatomical Introduction . . . 233 The Position of the Speech Centres . 233 The Relative Activity of the Corre- sponding Speech Centres in the two Hemispheres of the Brain . . 234 The Blood-SupjAy of the Speech Area. 234 Physiological Introduction . . . 234 Nature of Speech . . . .234 Aphasia due to a Process of Dissolu- tion 234 The Evolution of the Speech Faculties 235 Pathological Introduction . . . 235 Aphasia a Paralysis . . .235 The Causes of Aphasia (Organic and Functional) ..... 235 The Clinical Features of Aphasia . 235 Word-Deafness (Subcortical and Cor- tical) 235 Motor-vocal Aphasia (Subcortical and Cortical) ..... 236 Word-Blindness (Cortical and Sub- cortical) . . . . .237 Agraphia . . . . .238 Tactile Aphasia, .... 239 Combined Forms of Aphasia . . 239 Total Apihasia. . . . .239 Commissural Aphasia . . .239 Diagnosis 239 Prognosis ...... 240 Treatment ...... 240 Medico-Legal Aspects . . . .241 See also Alcoholism (Motor Variations); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels ; Brain, Tumours OF; Brain, Surgery of (Epilep)sy); General Paralysis ; Hemiplegia ; Malaria ; Meninges of the Cerebrum ; Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal; Mirror-Writing ; Paralysis; Typhoid Fever ; Ur/Emia. Definition. — In my opinion the term aphasia should be limited to those derangements of speech wliicii result from functional disturbance