ANGEIONEUROTIC (EDEMA 187 sometimes to the perfurmaiice of tnieheotoiiiy), bronchial changes (causing astinna), hienio- glohinuria, and gastro-intestinal changes (causing cohc, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhoea). Less frequently there may be actual infianmiatoi'y attacks, such as plein'isy, pericarditis, and endo- carditis, and nephritis. Tliat these visceral symptoms are due to oedema of the mucous membranes has been believed by Osier and others for some time; and a recent observation by R. S. Morris {Artier. Journ. Med. Sc. cxxviii. 812, 1904) confirms this view. In a well- marked case of angeioneurotic oedema Morris had occasion to perform washing out the stomach, and found in the end of the stomach tube a piece of tissue, evidently gastric mucous mem- brane ; this, under the microscope, showed ex- treme oedema of the interstitial tissue of a non- inflammatory nature. The visceral phenomena have been observed to alternate with the attacks of surface crdeuia, and to be recurrent. Little is known of the etiolo<iy of this disease. Traumatism apparently precedes the occurrence of the ffidema in some instances ; but the malady is essentially a vaso-motor neurosis. Osier {Amer. Journ. Med. Sc. cxxvii. 1, 1904) has pointed out that it belongs to the erythema group of skin diseases, the other members of the group being simple erythema, erythema exudativum, herpes iris, erythema nodosum, some purpui-as, and urticaria. It is " lu-ticaria writ large." It is certainly noteworthy that these diseases should all have the same associated visceral phenomena, should be hereditary, and should be inter- changeable in the same individual {vide Osier's paper in Jacobi's Fe.ft.<tckrift, p. 446, 1900). The hereditary nature of some of the cases has lieen abmidantly proved (Fairbanks, Amer. Journ. Med.. <S'(;. cxxvii. 877, 1904). Family prevalence has also been noted, and the disease occurs in children. The disease may occur as one of the manifestations of the menopause (Burnet, Internat. Clinics, 13s., iv. 118, 1904). Death from oedema glottidis or uraDmia may occur. Local treatment consists mainly in the pro- tection of the ocdematous areas from inj in-y, in the use of dusting powders, of ichthyol, and of lead lotion ; friction and massage may do good in chronic cases. Internally, the bromides have been employed ; nitroglycerine in doses of one minim of a one-per-cent solution seems to have been beneficial ; ergot and salicin have also been rcconmiended. Since the disease bears a resemblance to urticaria it is reasonable to regu- late the diet, trying to discover (and to avoid) those articles of iaod which predispose to it. AngeiOSarCOma. — A very vascular form of sarcoma, so vascular as sometimes to pulsate ; it may develop from a diffuse cavernous angeioma. See Tumours (Sarcomata). AngeiotelectasiS.—Dilatation of the capillaries or uf the small arteries and veins; telangiectasis ; a form of n;evus. See Tu.Mouiis {An(/eiomata). AngreiOtOme.—(l) in emliryohjgy is one of the vascular segments into wiiich the vascular system of the body can be theoretically divided (cf. myotome) ; (2) a knife for dividing vessels. Angfeiotribe. — Heavy strong forceps, often with a. c(jmplicated apparatus, by which great pressure can be exercised to crush tissues {e.g. the pedicle of an abdominal tumour) placed within its grasp and so prevent bleeding ; its use may be combined with the ligature. Ang'Glica.—The root of an umbelliferous plant {Arc/iaiii/e/ica officinalis), official in the German Pharmacopoeia {Angelicaivurzel or Radix angelicce). In the form of Spiritus angeliccv compositus it is used in Germany as a tonic, stimulant, and diaphoretic medicine. Angelic acid (C.HgO,,) is obtained from it. Ang'ina.—Ditticulty in breathing or swal- lowing prdducing the feeling of impending suffocation, caused by inflammation and swelling of the throat, trachea, or neighbouring struc- tures ; cynanche. There are nmnerous varieties, including angina crouposa, angina diphtheritica, angina maligna-, angina thymica, angina tonsil- laris (quinsy), and angina variolosa, as well as those specially described below. The true clas- sical pronunciation of the word Angina has the "i " short, but custom justifies the "i " long. Ang^ina FaUCium.— Inflammation iif the pharynx, due to diphtheria, gangrene, or rheumatism. See Rheumatism, Acute. Angrina Laryng^ea. — Laryngitis, croup, OL'dema glottidis. /SV(' Larynx, Acute Inflammation of. Ang'ina LudOVici.—Phlegmonous in- flannnation of the floor of the mouth and of the neck, occurring sometimes as an epidemic, and ending in abscess formation, resolution, or gan- grene ; first described hy Ludwig of Stuttgart: submaxillary supjjurative cellulitis. See Neck, Region op {Inflammatori/ Affections); Pharynx, Acute Pharyncutis ; Suppuration {Angina Ludoviri) ; and ToNOUE. Angina Parotidea. See Mumps. Angina Pectoris. Dekinitii )\ ...... 188 Symptoms ■ . 18N Etiology . • • • .189 Pathology 190 Varieties 190 Diagnosis . . • • • .191 Prognosis . . • • • .191 Treatment 19^ See also Arteries, Diseases of ; (iALL- j BLADDER AND RiLE DuCTS, DISEASES OF {Dia-