337 AUSCULTATION CARDIUJI {Physical Examination) ; Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism ; Medicine, History op ; Pregnancy, Diagnosis ; Pregnancy, Intra Uterine Diseases ; Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of (Dilatation). Austra-licl. See Therapeutics, Heai^th Resokts. Australian Blight. See Angeio Neurotic Oedema. Austria. See Balneology. Auto-.—Auto-, as a prefix to many words, signifies self, self'-pi'odiiced, or personal. Ex- amples are found in auto-catJieterism (passing the catheter on one's self) ; aiUojyhthalmoscope (an instrument for examining the interior of one's own eye); auto-vaccination (accidental vaccina- tion of one's self), and in the words below. Auto-Infection.—Infectionof the body l)y means of a poison arising within it, and not Ijrought into it from the outside. The antonym is hetero-infection. See Lungs, Tuberculosis OF; Puerperiuji, Pathology {Puerperal Infec- tion). Auto-Intoxication.—Poisoning of the body by materials developed within itself; auto- toxiemia. See Gout ; Insanity, Pathology of ; Insanity {Etiological Varieties); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Gastric Catarrh); Temperature {Causes of Fever); Unconscious- ness {Auto-Intoxications). Autolysis.—The process of self-digestion: when a living tissue is taken from the body, is kept warm and moist, has no bacteria in it, and is in an aseptic state, it undergoes digestion, brought about by enzymes, which may be termed antoli/tic enzymes. Automatism. See Hysteria ; Malin- gering (ylm6w/tttory^M<o??iaiis»i) ; Unconscious- ness {Partial Loss of Consciotisness, Hysterical Types, etc.). Autopsy.—Post-mortem examination. See Post-mortem Methods. AutOSCOpy.— The examination of the larynx and trachea by direct insjaection. See Larynx, Examination of. AutOSite.—The name usually given to a monstrosity capable of independent existence (for a shorter or longer time) apart from the mother. In the case of allantoido-angiopagous twins the autosite is the foetus with the heart, the acardiac one being the parasite; in poly- somatous terata it is the foetus to which the other fatus (parasite) is attached. Auto - Suggrestion. — When sensory impressions previuusly received are reproduced VOL. I in the brain, are accepted, and become the starting-points for acts, auto-suggestion is in action. See Hypnotism. Auto-Transfusion.—The accumula- tion of most of the blood of the body in the central and vital parts by posture or bandaging of the limbs; used in cases of severe hjemorrhage. See Labour, Post-partum Hemorrhage. Ava.—The intoxicant prepared from Kavcf Rhizoma (the root of Pipjer methysticum), used in the Sandwich Islands. AvantS, LeS. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Sivitzerland). Avenolith.—The calculus which forms in the intestine round a grain of oats; an entero- lith. Avian.—Peculiar to birds, e.g. avian gout {see Gout), and avian tuberculosis {see Tuber- culosis). Axanthopsia. — Blue - blindness. See Colour Vision. The Axilla. Anatomy of . . . . . .337 Diseases op . . . . . . 338 Injuries of . . . . . . 339 See also Aneurysm ; Arteries, Ligature op ; Brachial Plexus, Surgical Affections op ; Lymphatic System ; Mammary Gland {Con- genital Anomalies); Puerperium, Physiology ; Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries of. The paramount surgical importance of the axilla lies in the fact that it contains all the nervous and vascular structures on which the power and vitality of the upper extremity depend; and consequently its diseases and injuries may lead to results apparently disproportionate to the causes to which they are attributable. For this reason the necessity of prompt recognition and early treatment is always imperative. I. Anatomy of the Axilla The axilla is a somewhat pyramidal-shaped space, lying between the upper and lateral part of the thorax and the upper extremity of the humerus, with its apex pointing upwards and corresponding to a spot slightly internal to the coracoid process. Its anterim' wall is formed by the greater and lesser pectoral muscles and the costo-coracoid membrane which stretches from the latter muscle to the clavicle. The posterior wall is formed by the subscapularis muscle, the narrow tendon of the latissimus dorsi, and part of the teres major. The outer wall consists of the humerus and the conjoined origin of the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles : while the inner embraces the five upper ribs, the inter- costal muscles, and the coiTesponding digitations 22