326 ATROPHY, INFANTILE placed in the cot or carriage. Its bedroom or hospital ward must be large and airy, and the air frequently changed. Atrophic infants do not thrive in crowded hospital wards, and are exceedingly likely to die of septic pneumonia. It should spend as much time in the open air as the weather permits. If the infant is under three or four months of age, a wet nurse offers the best chance for it, but in this country it is seldom possible to obtain a suitable one. Fresh asses' milk is worth a trial, but this is not often to be had. Of other foods, whey prepared from cow's milk by means of Benger's essence of rennet is certainly one of the best. The curd should be thoroughly broken up, and the whey sti'ained through muslin or a fine sieve and sterilised. Whey prepared in this way contains on an average—pi'oteids "8, fat 1"75 to 2, lactose 4"5 per cent. The quantity taken must be carefully regulated to the infant's powers of digestion. Atrophic infants do not digest either proteids or fat well, and the percentage of each of these must be kept low. Sugar of milk may be added to the whey in the proportion of two or three drachms to the pint. Small quantities of raw beef juice may also be added cautiously, in some cases with advantage. If cream is added, vomiting or diarrhoea is very likely to follow. If the infant improves, small quantities of milk, say one-sixth to one-third, may be added to the sterilised whey, but even this small quantity requires watching ; weak peptonised milk is of use chiefly in the cases in which there is much vomiting. When there is much looseness of bowels, veal tea and thin arrowroot may be given for a while instead of milk preparations, or the whey may be diluted with an equal quantity of barley water. The medicinal treat- ment is very largely a treatment of symptoms. The inunction of sweet oil appears to have some good effects; a few drops daily, internally, of cod-liver oil is useful in those cases in which constipation is a marked feature, and there is no concomitant gastro-intestinal disturbance. Carbonate of magnesia in laxative doses—2-3 grains or more three times daily—with spirits of chloroform 2 minims, and peppermint water to a drachm, may be given when there is flatulence and decomposing food in the stools; Dover's powder, grain once or twice a day, when there is colic and diarrhoea; the dose may be increased if carefully watched, hut opium in all forms is contra-indicated in the later stages when there is a tendency to drowsiness. Car- bonate of bismuth in full doses, 2i-5 grains three or four times daily, may be tried to check vomiting and diarrhoea. Alcohol in the form of brandy or mist, vini Gallici is sooner or later necessary. Medico-Legal.—It often happens that a coroner's inquest is held to inquire into the cause of death in the case of an infant which, it is alleged, has been starved or grossly neglected by its mother or caretaker. At the autopsy it is found to be terribly emaciated, weighing, perhaps, only half the average weight for its age; there is no tuberculosis, and a general absence of any sign of disease which would be likely to cause death. It is not unnatural that the opinion should be formed that death was due to actual starvation, or at any rate suitable food was withheld, and the evidence given accordingly. There is not the least doubt that caution here is necessary; the absence of all traces of food in the stomach and intestines, and also of fseces, would justify the assertion that no food had been given during the last day or two of life, but the emaciated condition and absence of any trace of disease would not of themselves justify the assertion that the infant had been actually starved by its care- taker, or even grossly neglected. Emaciation of an extreme character takes place in some cases, although food in the shape of diluted milk, condensed milk, and boiled bread have been given in abundance, and there is no means at the autopsy of distinguishing between the cases in which the infant has failed to digest and assimilate the food given, and those from which food has been wilfully withheld entirely or in part. Histological examination of the stomach and intestine would be laborious and difficult, and the results inconclusive, as the absence of catarrhal changes and secondary atrophy would not necessarily mean that the infant had been starved. It is only safe to say that the appearances are consistent with starva- tion and neglect; it is unsafe, in the absence of evidence observed during life, and on post- mortem evidence only, to assert wilful starvation. The history of the case, its surroundings during life, the character of the food given, must be taken into account. If the infant is puny and weakly from birth, suffers much from dyspepsia, and dies in an emaciated condition at a few months old, or if there is a history of some acute disease, such as summer diarrhoea, preced- ing its beginning to waste, there is no prima facie evidence that the infant has been neglected or badly cared for. Such cases occur in hospitals and under circumstances where neglect cannot be alleged. On the other hand, if the infant was healthy at birth, and remained so for some months, and only began to waste when five or six months old, gradually becoming reduced to a skeleton, there would be much more reason to suspect neglect or something worse. The older the infant, the less likely is it to die of atrophy unless badly fed and ill-cared-for. The presence of tubercular disease, though consistent with neglect, would probably be held by the court to account for the wasting, without alleging starvation or gross negligence. Atropine. See Belladonna; Alkaloids; Analgesics ; Aorta, Aneurysm {Treatment);