291 ASEPSIS organisms are absent. Sterility, iu a bacteriolog- ical sense, is not therefore exactly synonymous with asepsis, neitlier is surgical cleanliness; but a surgeon or an obstetrician endeavours to sterilise his instruments and hands to make them surgically clean, in order to enable him to carry out aseptic surgery or obstetrics. Anti- septics may be used to produce asepsis, more especially if heat be regarded as an antiseptic. See Aseptic Treatment. Aseptic Treatment of Wounds. Introduction . . . . .291 Sources of Infection . . . .291 Air infection. Water infection. Contact infection. Disinfection ...... 293 Of Hands of surgeon and assistants. Of Skin of jMtient. Of Sponges. Of Instruments, Ligatures, etc. Aseptic and Antiseptic Dre.ssings . . 296 Field op Operation .... 296 Irrigation ...... 296 The Dressing ..... 297 Subsequent Treatment .... 297 Evidences op Asepticity . . . 298 Antiseptic Surgery .... 298 See also Amputations ; Ankle - joint. In- juries OP ; Appendicitis ; Joints ; Labour, Management ; Labour, Operations ; Rubber Gloves ; etc. Introduction.—The word "aseptic" is an old one which has been revived. At first it was used without any scientific precision. Of late years, by a gradual process of evolution, it has been restricted to surgery, which aims at the absence of all bacteria from wounds. Within the recollection of even the present generation putrefaction was one of the ordinary concomi- tants of wounds. It was accompanied by a dreadful mortality from septicfemia, pyaemia, erysipelas, and various forms of gangrene. Continental surgeons (Reverdin) have said that nine-tenths of their cases of amputation through the thigh died of septic diseases; only opera- tions of the direst necessity were undertaken. The interiors of the skull, thorax, abdomen, and of the articulations were forbidden ground. Gastrostomy was performed twenty-seven times with twenty-seven deaths. To Lord Lister belongs the fame of having recognised that putrefaction in \vounds and their discharges was caused by living "ferments" (bacteria), and of having devised scientific methods of preven- tion. Various chemicals, especially carbolic acid and some of the salts of mercury, were brought into requisition, and the old term " antiseptic " was revived to designate them. The use of antiseptics at once began to abate | putrefaction in wounds, and at the same time brought about a remarkable diminution in septic diseases. Several questions then arose with regard to pus and suppuration. First, whether the chemicals used in the treatment of wounds might not of themselves cause suppuration ; and—Secondly, whether svippuration was invari- ably caused by bacteria. Even now it can hardly be said that these two questions have received a final answer. A full consideration of these questions will be found in the article "Suppuration." It will sufiice to say now that aseptic surgeons accept the propositions {a) that the healthy unexposed tissues are sterile, and (h) that suj^puration, erysipelas, pytemia, septicaemia, and other trau- matic diseases are caused by bacteria which enter from without. It follows that their aim is the exclusion of all bacteria. It would not suffice to exclude only those which caused decomposition, or those which caused suppura- tion ; some, such as the bacillus of tetanus, cause neither, and the properties of others, especially of the skin bacteria, are unknown. Thus safety lies in the exclusion of all, or, in other words, in absolute sterility. Nor can any reliance be placed upon any form of im- munity which the patient may be supposed to possess or have acquired. The exclusion of bacteria is within the surgeon's control; the patient's immunity is not. To attain this result it is requisite to know (a) the sources of infection, {b) the steps re- quired for the destruction of bacteria—disinfec- tion ; (c) the methods by which bacteria can be excluded during and after operations — antisepsis. The Sources of Wound Infection. — The commonest sources of wound infection are air, water, hands, and person of the surgeon and his assistants, instruments, utensils, ligatures, sponges, or materials brought in contact with the wound; the patient's skin or the jiatient's secretions, such as mucus, saliva, urine, or fa!ces. In practice it is assumed that all things are infected until they are known to be sterile. This rule eliminates much danger from instruments, sponges, ligatures, and apj^li- ances. (a) Air infection.—The experiments of Pro- fessor Tyndall, Lord Lister, and others prove that the dust-laden atmosphere of cities, towns, and dwellings teems with all kinds of bacteria, and that the density of the dust particles is a rough index of their numbers. The kinds of bacteria in the air depend to a large extent upon the origin of the dust. That which is blown from roads, fields, and gardens contains the spores of tetanus or of the Bacillus septicus (Nicolaier). Dust from ground which has been manured is full of the colon bacillus. In cities, owing to our irrational hygiene, the dust