ASEPTIC TREATMENT OF WOUNDS 296 operations in children, and in wounds already septic it has undoubted advantages. It is not desirable to place silk ligatures on the stump of the appendix or upon the meso-appendix iu a case of perforative or gangrenous appendicitis. It is also a safer material for closing rents or wounds in the urinary bladder. It is now clearly understood that the great bar to the disinfection of catgut is the grease which the makers rub upon it to give a smooth and shining appearance (Reverdin). The hrst and most essential step, therefore, is the removal of this grease by winding the raw catgut upon a board, scrubbing with hot water and soap for half an hour, and then immersing for twenty- four hours in ether. When no more fat can be extracted the chemical disinfectant can be applied. I am at present using a 1 in 250 solution of biniodide of mei"cui-y in water. The catgut soaks in this for seventy-two hours, after which it is tested and used. It is kept in the same solution, and is quite strong and good at the end of a year. A great variety of disin- fectants have been used. Sublimate in alcohol 1 per cent, sublimate 1 in 1000, followed by Juniper oil and absolute alcohol. Heat in various forms has been tried—boiling alcohol (Robb) and dry heat (Reverdin, Braatz). It is possible that the complexity of these methods has prevented them from being much used. Little is known concerning the disinfection of the other animal ligatures, such as kangaroo tendon, rat-tail tendon, or gold-beaters' skin. It would therefore be well for any one who thought of using them to test their asepticity by immersion in culture broth. Aseptic and Antiseptic Dressings.—A great many dressings are now upon the market. Some surgeons use gauze which has been sterilised by heat. This is quite unirritating, but inasmuch as the disinfection of the skin is still uncertain it seems advisable that the gauze should contain a store of chemical antiseptic, such as carbolic acid, sal alembroth, cyanide of mercury, iodo- form, and so forth. We have obtained the best results with 5 per cent carbolic gauze, 2 per cent sal alembroth wool, and 10 per cent iodo- form gauze. The mercuric preparations seem liable to cause dermatitis when long in contact with the skin; nevertheless, they give excellent results when properly used. Other points will be mentioned when the final dressing of the wound is described. The Field of Operation. — For prolonged operations a hot-water table or a water-bed ought to be provided. One of the cheapest, simplest, and best hot - water tables is that which is called the " Swiss pattern," and was devised by Dr. Jussaud. The position of the patient is arranged so that no further move- ment or disturbance is required, and so that all fluids can run away clear of the patient's body. The bandages and protective dressing are then removed from the disinfected area. The garments are covered with thin mackintosh or 'i dry towels, and the field of operation prepared \\ by arranging sterilised towels all round to ex- 'j elude all that is not known to have been dis- '| infected. In operations about the lower part of ;| the abdomen, scrotvim, or groin, the organs of ! generation are wrapped in antiseptic gauze wrung out in lotion. Near the right hand of the surgeon a table is ! placed and the dish of instruments; the bowl with sutures and ligatures, and a basin of lotion i for the hands, are arranged upon it. This j table is completely covered with sterilised | towels. The operation is done cleanly, neatly, | and expeditiously, and with as little bruising \ or handling as possible. The surgeon takes ! the knife or other instrument from the lotion, and after use replaces it in the lotion. Bleeding is stopped at once with pressure forceps. Loss of blood is attended with many evils, and vessels allowed to bleed are apt to infiltrate loose tissues with blood. At the end of the operation ligatures should be applied until the wound is dry. Too much care cannot be lavished in closing the wound. Cavities should be obliterated with bui'ied sutures. This is of , great value after the removal of tumours of the j thyroid body, and after the excision of cysts or j innocent growths from the mammary gland. ji Drainage is now provided in all septic cases. ; Our present methods of disinfection with chemi- ' cals cannot be relied upon to disinfect a septic wound or cavity. In aseptic wounds drainage has sometimes to be provided to allow blood to , escape, especially where a large area of can- j cellous bone is exposed, as in Syme's amputa- C tion, or amputation through the condyles of the ■ femur. Also a drain may be needed where the \ tissues are very loose, and in which recurrent \ bleeding is apt to occur. For this reason I \ drain all scrotal wounds after exploration of the ! testicle, castration, radical cure of hydrocele or : varicocele. A drain may also be required when inflammatory effusion is expected. A drainage- ' tube in the knee-joint, after wiring the patella, j vastly diminishes the subsequent pain. A drain j of indiarubber tubing or gauze is now oftenest ' used. In abdominal surgery the use of glass ' tubes is ceasing, because rubber tubes are found \ to answer as well, and to cause less pain. Glass ■ tubes have been known to break. i Irrigation.—Since the abandonment of the j spray it has been customary to apply large ' quantities of lotion at intervals during the \ operation, with the idea of washing out any 1 bacteria that may have been introduced or | fallen from the atmosphere, and also with the remote possibility of killing them. It is prob- able that irrigation has been somewhat abused. The application of strong solutions of carbolic acid or of sublimate must be harmful. Wounds treated in such a way look as if they had / 1