ACTINOMYCOSIS 52 patches, or nodules, around which the membrane was swollen and congested. Softening of these nodules gave rise to ulcers with undermined edges. Cicatrisation of intestinal ulcers may take place. After a time the peritoneum becomes in- volved, adhesions are produced, the abscesses may spread in various directions ; they have the tendency to open externally. In some cases they have been found to discharge into the bladder, or to involve the prostate, liver, etc. In the case recorded by Ransom, the abscess had extended from the rectum to the prostate, and actinomyces granules were found in the stools and in the urine of the patient. Actinomycosis of the Liver.—The liver is usually affected by extension from the intestine, but sometimes it may become involved by abscesses extending from the lung through the diaphragm ; and a case has been recorded in which actinomycosis of the liver had apparently been produced secondarily to abscesses of the skin in the neighbourhood of the umbilicus. These hepatic abscesses are variable in size, sometimes very large, situated more or less deeply ; they have a typical alveolated structure ; in their neighbourhood the parenchyma of the liver is deeply congested and in a state of atrophy, associated with intercellular cirrhosis. In the neighbourhood of these lesions the capsule of the organ is thickened, and there are usually peritonitic adhesions through which the abscesses may extend to neighbouring viscera or to the abdominal parietes. Actinomycosis of the Lungs.—The lung may be primarily affected by inhalation of infected vegetable dust, or, secondarily, by extension of lesions of the skin, oesophagus, prevertebral tissue, liver, etc. There may be simply bron- chitis and peribronchitis with some broncho- pneumonia, or the lesions may take the form of a chronic localised interstitial pneumonia and abscesses. These abscesses may be encapsu- lated. When the lung is invaded through the lymphatics or blood-vessels, actinomycotic nod- ules resembling miliary tubercles, but larger, may be produced. The pleura usually becomes involved, fibrous adhesions and empyema being the changes most commonly observed. The disease has been diagnosed during life by the discovery of the parasite in the sputum. Abscesses starting from the lungs may involve any of the neighbouring organs, thoracic or abdominal, or extend towards the surface through the thoracic walls, and discharge exter- nally. By spreading from the posterior media- stinum to the prevertebral lumbar region, these abscesses may simulate psoas or iliac abscesses. Actinomycosis of the Skin.—The skin may be involved primarily by the penetration of in- fected splinters of wood, sharp appendages of the glumes of spikelets of barley or other grasses on which the organism may be present. It has already been shown that the skin is frequently involved secondarily. The lesions appear as nodules, varying in size ; these are sarcomatous-looking, soft, pulpy. They have a mottled, purplish red, and yellowish colour. The skin over them is thin; it ulcer- ates, giving rise to crateriform vilcers, which often coalesce and yield an abundant, clear, sticky discharge. Syphilitic-looking scars may be produced. Actinomycosis of the Brain. — The brain is generally affected as a residt of metastasis through the blood-vessels, but extension by con- tiguity following disease of the bones at the basis of the skull may also occur (Ponfick). These abscesses are generally multiple, and situated in the white matter at various dis- tances from the surface of the organ ; their size varies from that of a small pea to that of a small orange, the larger abscesses being sub- divided into several smaller ones ; hut, generally speaking, the cerebral actinomycotic abscesses are larger than those found in other parts of the body. They seem to develop rapidly; in the case reported by Delepine abscesses reaching the size of a walnut had apparently been produced in not more than five or six weeks. Localised encephalitis and meningitis are observed round these abscesses. The nervous symptoms depend on the parts affected, but the supervention of paralytic or meningitic symptoms in a patient affected with buccal, intestinal, pulmonary, genital, or cutaneous actinomycosis should lead to a suspicion of actinomycosis of the brain and a bad prognosis, the patient seldom surviving more than a few weeks after the supervention of nervous symptoms. Microscopical Anatomy.—A typical actinomy- cotic tumour or multilocular abscess, such as may be found in the human liver, is composed of a number of small, more or less rounded follicles of variable sizes, but seldom exceeding 3 mm. (|- inch) in diameter. Each one of these small foci may be described as an elementary abscess, foUicule, granuloma, or shortly as an elementary actinomycoma. Near the margin of the tumour these elementary follicles are separ- ated from each other by thick strands of very vascular and cellular connective tissue (granula- tion tissue), in the midst of which may be found atrophied, pigmented, and degenerated liver- cells ; bile-ducts with proliferating epithelium; small arteries generally in a state of arteritis. In the more central parts of the multilocular abscess, the septa between the elementary abscesses are proportionally thinner, and they are entirely composed of granulation tissue, which is more or less degenerated and often pigmented; no distinct remains of the original tissues of the organ can usually be recognised in these septa. The primary abscesses are often grouped together much in the way as elementary miliary tubercles are grouped in