363 BANDAGES: VARTETTKS AND METHOD OF APPLICATION from it. The part to be liandaged in protected by a flannel bandage, over which the wet plaster bandage is applied. Care must V)e taken not to bandage too tightly, and the part must be held in the required position mitil the bandage has set. The setting can lie hastened to any re- quired extent by adding more or less potassium snlpliate to the water in which the bandage is soaked. More than one thickness of bandage is required to get a sufficiently rigid case, and the bandage is applied spirally or in a figure of eight, never by reverses. It is removed by soaking or by cutting throngli the bandage either with a saw, scissors, or specially-designed cutting forceps. Plaster of Paris bandages are used moi-c especially in the treatment of talipes, either with or without tenotomy, after osteotomy and excision, in some forms of simple fracture, and as a jacket in spinal caries. Rubber Bandages.—Tiiese are used to control or to regulate the circulation through a limb in the two forms of Esmarch's and Martin s band- ages. An Esviarc.li>i bandage is employed to arrest the circulation through a part in cases of severe hajmorrhage or to render a surgical opera- tion bloodless. It consists of a long strip of veiy stout indiarubber, woiuid like an ordinary roller bandage, which is applied to the limb from below Tipwards to the spot where the blood- flow is to be stopped. A piece of strong india- rubber tubing is passed round the limb just al)ove tlie upper border of the bandage, and is pulled tight and secured so as to stop the circulation. The indiarubber bandage is then removed, and the limb remains bloodless luitil the piece of tidjing is loosened. The method is excellent if tiie bandage be applied for only a short time, and if no large cavity be left by the opera- tion, but the application of the bandage leads to pai'alysis of the smaller blood-vessels, and there is often a troublesome oozing after it has been removed. I have therefore ceased to employ it in such operations as excision of the knee and elbow. Martinis Bandac/e is used in the treatment of varicose veins and varicose ulcers, often with excellent results. It consists of a strip of pure black rubber which is absolutely free from sulphur, and is much less stout than Esmarch's bandage, measuring lOi feet by 3 inches for the leg, and costing about five shillings. The band- age is applied loosely by winding it spirally Tip the leg as high as may be necessary. It shoiild lie put on before the patient gets up in the morning, that is to say, before the veins become overfull. The disadvantages of the bandage are that it is heavy, hot, and waterproof. The perspiration is unable, therefore, to escape, and the bandage often becomes quite wet after it has been worn a short time. A trouVilesome eczema is tin IS produced unless the patient is very care- ful, and she shoidd be advised to wash the limb every night, to dry it carefully, and afterwards to powder the .skin with some of the uniri'itating drying powders used for babies. Ba,ncll'S Ringf.—The junction between tiie upper (cDuti-actiie) part of the body of the uterus and the lower (passive and exfianding) part; the ring between the upper and lower uterine segment, or the contr-action ring. See Labour, Stages and Duration (First Stage). Banti'S Disease. — A severe form of splenic atifemia, ending in liepatic cirrhosis. See Liver, Diseases ok (Etiology) ; Spleen, Medical Affections of. Banting-ism or Banting- Cure. —The reduction of obesity l)y means of altering the diet so as to exclude farinaceous, oily, and sugary things. Scv ( )besity. Baraesthesiometer.—An instrument for testing the sense of pressure at different parts of the l)ody (Eulenburg). Barbadoes Aloes. See Aloes. Barbadoes Leg-. See Filariasis (Elephantiaais Arabuiii). Barber's Itch. See Skin, Parasites {Tinea Harhn ). Barbiers. See Beiu-beri. Barcelona. See Therapeutics, Health Bes(iKis {Mediterranean). BaregfeS. See Balneology {France. Sulphur Waters). Barestrand. /SVe Balneology {Iceland). Barium.—Barium, in the form of the chloride (dose, h to 2 grains), may be given in the same class of cases as those in whicli digitalis is used. It acts also, to a certain extent, like ergot. A drachm of the chloride has caused death. See Toxk'ol(m;v {Irritants). Barkingr Cough.—Cynobex hebetica. See Cough {Fnlerty) ; Larynx, Neuroses {Nervons Cough). Barley Water. See Invalid Feeding. Barlow's Disease. See Scurvy (7/;- fantile Scurv//). Barmouth. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts ( Welsh). Barnes' Bag's.—Hydrostatic dilators of the cervix uteri. ,SV'_' Labour, Operations. BarOg-raph.—An automatically record- ing l)arometer. Barometer. See Climate {Individual Factors) ; Mejeorology {The Barometer).