198 ANKLE-JOINT, REGION OF—INJURIES AND DISEASES means must be taken to prevent another twist of the joint. The sprain of the ankle which accompanies the fractures should be dealt with in the manner already described. Treatment of Pott's fracture.—The indications are to reduce the deformity completely, which can generally be accomplished by extending and adducting the foot while the leg is firmly held, and to adopt suitable means for keeping the fragments in position until union is effected. Various splints are employed. A pair of Cline's, with or without a back splint; a Dupuytren's or internal lateral splint, the notched lower end projecting beyond the foot. Between the splint and the leg a wedge-shaped pad is placed, the base of it extending down almost as far as the internal malleolus. The foot is well ad- ducted and secured to the splint by means of a bandage which is carried up the leg as far as the knee. Some surgeons employ Syme's an- terior horse-shoe splint, which may be used in conjunction with a Dupuytren. Others obtain good results with a Roughton's outside splint. Good results have also been obtained by encasing the limb in splints at once, and allowing the patient to move about from the beginning. The important thing in treating a Pott's fracture is to he quite sure the displacements are properly reduced before the limb is fixed. It is a good plan not to keep the splints applied too long—no longer than ten days— before they are taken ofl^' and the ankle-joint gently moved, while the lower part of the leg is firmly held. The splints are reapplied, or the limb encased in a Croft's plaster-of-Paris bandage. Passive movements must be carried out twice a week, and at the end of six weeks the patient will be able to put some weight on the limb. A certain amount of swelling and stiffness will remain for some time; these are treated by the use of the douche and massage. When in a Pott's fracture the deformity is left uncorrected and union occurs, the utility of the limb will be seriously interfered with. Directly the patient attempts to walk, the e version of the foot becomes more pronounced and much lameness follows. Moreover, the prominent lower end of the upper fragment of the tibia presses unduly on the skin covering it, and may induce ulceration, and the bone in rare instances projects through the skin. This con- dition can be remedied by operation. The fibula is divided at the seat of original fracture, and if this is found to be insufficient, the internal malleolus is divided, or the lower end of the tibia is removed, and, if necessary, with it a portion of the displaced (luxated) astragalus. The position of the foot can now be rectified. When the parts have healed, material improve- ment in progression is observed, a constant source of trouble and pain in the thick project- ing osseous mass on the inner aspect of the ankle having been removed. Dislocations at the Ankle-Joint (Tibio- Tarsal Dislocations).—The entire foot may be displaced in four principal directions, back- ward, forward, outwai'd, and inward. To these a fifth is added, in which the foot is forced up- wards between the tibia and fibula. These dislocations are seldom complete, and very rarely occur without fracture of the tibia, or fibula, or of both bones. They are therefore more appropriately described as fracture-dis- locations. (a) Antero - posterior dislocations.— 1. Back- ward. 2. Forward. 1. Backward luxation, generally produced by extreme plantar flexion which tears the anterior and lateral ligaments, and the foot is displaced backward. The astragalus is fixed behind the tibia and the articular surface of the latter bone rests upon the scaphoid. The fibula is broken some two or three inches above the tip of the external malleolus. The internal malleolus may also be fractured. Incomplete displacement of the foot backward is frequently found in Pott's fracture. In the backward dislocation the heel is lengthened and the foot shortened as measured from the malleoli to fixed points in front. The malleoli are nearer the sole than normal, and motion at the ankle-joint is abolished. The astragalus, if it can be made out, which is difficult when there is much swelling, will be felt between the tibia and the tendo Achillis. Reduction—flex the leg ; heel to be drawn forward and the tibia pushed back. Division of the tendo Achillis may facilitate reduction. 2. Forward dislocation, rare. It is usually partial, and one or both malleoli are broken at the same time. The accident is produced by exaggerated dorsal flexion or by direct pressure forward upon the heel. The space in front of the tendo Achillis is filled by the lower end of the tibia, and in front of this bone the trochlear articular siu-face of the astragalus can be de- tected. The clinical signs of this injury are— diminished prominence of the heel, with lengthen- ing of the foot. The malleoli will be found nearer the ground and the normal movements of the ankle-joint are abolished. Much difiiculty has been experienced in the reduction of this luxation. Some assistance may be derived by division of the tendo Achillis. ih) Lateral dislocations. — 3. (Jutward. 4. Inward. 3. Outward, produced by forcible eversion of the foot. It is generally partial and combined with fracture through the lower third of the fibula and other lesions when it constitutes a Pott's fracture. Most of the examples, there- fore, of displacement outward of the foot are to be regarded as instances of fracture-dislocation. It is just possible to meet with a simple disloca- tion OTitward of the foot imaccompanied by fracture of the fibula.