BISMUTHUM 376 ployed for these purposes in the form of an ointment. In stomatitis it is useful, applied in powder form. Internally it is of great service in all forms of painful dyspepsia. For this purpose the carbonate should be given in large doses, either alone or combined with bicarbonate of soda and magnesium carbonate. It has been recommended in combination with dilute hydro- cyanic acid and an alkali in the gastric crises of locomotor ataxia. In simple diarrhoea it is of great value if given in sufficiently large doses— not less than 60 grs. three times daily, prefer- ably of the salicylate, because of its additional antiseptic action. It is also used in cholera and in dysentery. Bisulphide of Carbon. —A clear liquid with an offensive odour, used officially in the preparation of Liquor Caoutchouc and Pilula Phosphori. It is employed in the vulcanising of india-rubber, and may cause poisoning in the workers. See Trades, Dangerous {Bisulphide of Carbon Poisoning and India-r%M>er Manufac- ture) ; Coi,ouR Vision {Acquir-ed Colour-Blind- ness). Bites. See Malaria {Mosquito); Myiasis ; Rabies; Snake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes; Snake-Bite in the British Islands ; Teeth (Irregularities, e.g. "open bite," "underhung bite "). Bitter Almonds. See Amygdala Amara ; Toxicology {Cyanogen Compounds). Bitters. See Alcohol {Spirits); Calumba ; Gentian ; Pharmacology ; Prescribing ; Quas- sia ; etc. Biurates.—Acid urates. See Uric Acid. Biuret Test.—A colour-reaction test for proteids. To an alkaline solution, suspected to contain proteid, a few drops of a dilute solution of sulphate of copper are added ; if only a blue colour appears no proteid is contained in it, but a purple (blue-purple or red-purple) indicates the presence of proteid. Bjerrum'S Test. See Eye, Clinical Examination op {Night-Blindness); Vision, The Field of {Examination). Black Assizes. See Typhus Fever {History). Black Death. See Plague. Black Forest. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Germany). Black Spit. See Lungs, Pneumono- KONIOSIS. Black Vomit. — Hsematemesis. See Yellow Fever. Blackwater Fever. Nomenclature. — Pernicious remittent fever, malignant congestive fever, malignant bilious fever, bilious remittent fever, yellow remittent, yellow chill, hsemorrhagic malarial fever, pur- pursemia, htematinuria, bilious hematuric fever, hfemoglobinuric fever, bilious hgemoglobinuric fever, epidemic hsemoglobinuria, infantile hjemo- globinuria, paroxysmal htemoglobinuria, melan- uric fever, blackwater fever. Definition. — An acute infectious disease characterised by an intense destruction of red- blood corpuscles and clinically marked by paroxysms of fever accompanied by rigors, bilious vomiting, jaundice, and hsemoglobinuria. Symptoms.—We know but little of the in- cubation period in blackwater fever. The disease may certainly remain latent for a con- siderable time. Scott, in British Central Africa, noticed that the attack usually occurred about eight days after exposure to certain districts of the low river country. For a day or two there may be prodromal symptoms, such as general malaise, headache, nausea, and inability to work. As a rule, how- ever, the invasion is abrupt and marked by a severe rigor, which may last from fifteen to thirty minutes or even longer. The tempera- ture usually rises to 103° or 104° F., but some- times it may attain from the outset 105° or 106° F. The patient is extremely thirsty and much troubled by nausea and persistent Isilious vomiting. The vomited matters are yellow at first, but they soon become of a characteristic deej) green colour; in grave cases they may assume a dark brown hue from admixture with blood. He usually complains of pain in the lumbar and hypochondriac regions. The spleen and liver are found to be somewhat enlarged and tender to pressure. After two or three hours, the skin and conjunctivae appear jaini- diced, and in most cases the discoloration goes on deepening to an intense lemon-yellow or safiron colour. Meanwhile the urine assumes a dark red colour. It may become very scanty, thick and viscid like molasses, and as black as porter. In bad cases it may be entirely sup- pressed. There is usually constipation, but sometimes there may be diarrhoea, and the stools may be bilious, or black and tarry. After a longer or shorter period, usually five or six hours, the temperature may fall with profuse sweating; the patient will feel better, and the urine will become lighter in colour and more abundant. But a fresh rigor maj' super- vene, and the temperature will rise again with aggravation of all the symptoms. Two or more paroxysms may thus follow in quick succession, or there may be only one paroxysm recurring at about the same time on two or more successive days, or again there may be an intermission of one or more days between each