458 BRACHIAL PLEXUS, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF most urgently demand the attention of the surgeon. The treatment of these rare injuries is suffici- ently obvious. An incision will often be required to enable us to deal with severe hcemorrhage ; but in all cases primary suture of the divided nerve-trunks should be adopted, the plexus lieing properly exposed in its wounded area, and the divided ends of the nerves secured. We must also follow the general rule, that if primary suture has not been adopted or has failed in its object, and if septic changes have ensued, we must await the healing of the wound and the restoration of an aseptic condition before resort- ing to secondary suture. Tears and Contusions.—It is hardly practi- cable to discuss separately these two classes of injury, especially as in many cases it is uncertain what the precise mechanism of that injury may have been. Causes.—The injury is generally produced by sudden pulling of the arm upwards above the head, as in traction upon the child's arm or axilla in obstetrical operations (" obstetrical paralysis " of Duchenne), or, in adults, from the fixing of the arm in revolving belts or during the act of falling, from chitching with the hand at some oiitstanding object. In nearly all cases it will be found that the whole of the upper limb has thus been forcibly dragged upwards and backwards. Less commonly the injury is associated with a fracture of the clavicle due to direct violence, and often compound, the broken ends of the bone being driven down upon the subjacent nerves; with a dislocation of the shoulder causing similar conditions; or with injury to the axilla, as from pressure in the reduction of luxations. In many cases the mechanism of the injury consists in the tearing of the plexus by a direct pull, when either the roots are avulsed from the spinal cord or some or all of them are torn across outside of the vertebral canal. In some cases the lesion is clearly a contusion resulting from a direct blow, or from the driving in of a broken or dislocated bone. It would also appear that not a few cases are due to crushing of the plexus between the unbroken clavicle and the first rib, against which the collar-bone has been forcibly drawn backwards (Ross). The symptoms are similar in kind in all cases, but differ in extent according to the position of the lesion and the number of cords torn. In complete lesions they involve all the nerve-roots; in many the injury is seated at some little distance from the spine, and the highest branches (those for the eye, rhomboids, etc.), escape. In the very characteristic group of pjartial injuries described by Erb and by Duchenne the fifth or fifth and sixth roots alone suffer, possibly owing to the fact that they are readily compressed by forcible retraction of the clavicle. In a complete case the upper limb of the affected side hangs perfectly flaccid and is abso- lutely anaesthetic, save over the upper deltoid region, which is supplied from the cervical plexus, and on the axillary aspect to which the second or second and third dorsal nerves send sensory fibres. At the same time we find contraction of the pupil, or rather incapacity for dilatation (best observed in a dim light), and contraction of the palpebral fissure. Pain is not usually a prominent symptom, but may be experienced in the neck or referred to the upper limb. Vaso- motor and " ti'ophic" symptoms follow as in other injuries of nerves, and arthritis of the elbow-joint is especially common as a sequela. This clinical picture is liable to indefinite variation in cases of varying extent, locality, and severity of injury, but such details can be most readily appreciated by reference to the fimctions of the various nerve-roots as previously indicated. It is necessary, however, to refer to the xiommon type of partial lesions known as ErVs paralysis or Duchenne's obstetrical paralysis, in which the fifth root is alone torn or compressed, and in which we find only paralysis of the deltoid, biceps, brachialis internus, and spinator longiis muscles, with anaesthesia limited to the territory assigned in our diagram to the fifth cervical root—the antesthesia being often very incomplete or in the slightest cases absent. Any other root or combination of roots may ))e involved in a partial lesion of the plexus, the fifth and sixth suffering with a frequency' next most common to that of the fifth cervical. The diagnosis presents no real difficulty, but mistakes constantly arise from regarding a hysterical monoplegia as a paralysis of the brachial plexus. In the hysterical affection we do not find the anaesthesia and paralysis limited to the distribution of one or more nerve-roots; wasting of muscles is less marked than in in- juries of the plexus; anaesthesia is usually more prominent than paralysis; the " stigmata of hysteria" are generally found, the most pro- minent being partial hemi-anaesthesia, retraction of the field of vision, and achromatopsia—all on the affected side of the body. From an injury of the cervical cord a tear of the Ijrachial plexus differs in being absolutely unilateral, and in the absence of any symptoms involving the lower limb or the visceral reflexes. Cerebral paralyses do not present the perfect monoplegia, flaccid paralysis with anaesthesia, and orbital symptoms which characterise injiuy of the brachial plexus. The course of the injury, is variable. Many cases present little or no improvement from the moment of the accident; others recover slowly, anaesthesia disappearing before paralysis. In the majority the ultimate prognosis is very bad ; but, on the other hand, recovery may occur after long intervals. Contusions are far less serious than tears, and hence we must give a worse prognosis in " complete " cases—in which the plexus is probably torn across or avulsed