ASTHENOPIA 310 Asthenopia due to myopia is rare. For most myopes little difficulty is experienced in reading or other close application of the eyes. In the higher degrees of myopia, however, at all events as long as binocular fixation is persisted in, the excessive convergence which is necessary for distant vision causes a more or less rapid tiring. This is especially the case when the myopia is active and progressive. The pain then experi- enced, in addition to the tiring, is referi-ed to the back of the eyes. The treatment for such cases is that for progressive myopia {q.v.). 2. Muscular Asthenopia.—To some extent the tiring of the eyes, which results from their close application when very myopic, may be looked upon as a muscular asthenopia. Yet this kind of tiring is certainly not analogous to that which is found in the skeletal muscles after unwonted exercise. It is probably more an innervation fatigue, as discomfort is not afterwards felt when the internal recti are asso- ciated in lateral movements with the externi. Altogether it is doubtful whether the term muscular asthenopia, which was at one time more frequently employed than it now generally is, has any real applicability. When attention is directed to the eyes on account of symptoms of asthenopia, it is not uncommon to find latent deviations which are then often supposed to be the cause of the asthenopia. Yet similar devia- tions—more particularly latent convergence and divergence—are very often met with in indi- viduals who do not complain of asthenopia at all. Latent vertical deviations (what has been called hyperphoria) do, however, seem to give rise to symptoms of fatigue, which may be removed by wearing suitable prismatic correc- tion. (On this subject see articles on Ocular muscles and Strabismus.) 3. Neurasthenic Asthenopia.—A very large group of cases of asthenopia are mainly nervous in their origin. They depend upon conditions of general nutrition or of the nervous system, which may render the most ordinary use of the eyes more or less painful or troublesome. Hysteria, neurasthenia, malnutrition, the state of convalescence after serious illness, gout, etc., are some such conditions generally associated with more or less marked asthenopia. Often there is a combination of the neurasthenic form of asthenopia with the refractive or muscular varieties. It may thus be a matter of some difficulty to determine how much of the symp- toms is due to the one cause and how much to the other. The possible neurasthenic element must, in fact, be taken into consideration in the treatment of all asthenopias. Asthma. Explanation of the Terji . . .310 Origin and Course . . . .310 Symptoms 311 Cause and Frequency of Attack. . 312 I Morbid Anatomy 313 Nature and Etiology . . . .314 Diagnosis . . . . . .315 Treatment . . . . . .316 See also Alcoholism (Vascular Variations); Anyesthesia, Ether; Angina Pectoris; Aorta, Thoracic, Aneurysm ; Bronchi, Bronchitis ; Expectoration ; Gout ; Hay Fever ; Ichthy- osis ; Insanity {Etiological Varieties); Leuco- CYTOsis {Eosinophiles); Lungs, Emphysema of ; Nose {Nasal Neuroses, Polypus); Oxygen ; Thy- mus Gland. Asthma (aw, to blow; aa-Ofia, a short-drawn breath, panting) is a term originally applied to all forms of dyspnoea, which has in course of time become more limited in its connotation. In the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries it was used for very diverse diseases in which difficulty of breathing occurs; pneumothorax, for example, was sometimes known a« asthma aerium, whilst asthma arthriticum was one of the names of angina pectoris, but it was chiefly employed to indicate ailments characterised by recurring dyspnoea. To designate the severer paroxysmal forms of dyspnoea, the terms spas- modic or convulsive were added to the word asthma. The introduction of more exact methods of diagnosis has led to the differentiation of some forms of paroxysmal dyspnoea from the symptom complex now known as asthma. The word asthma is indeed still used to signify dyspnoea, more or less recurrent, due to other ailments, but it is then combined with some qualifying- term. Cardiac, renal or urtemic, and hfemic asthma, for example, are terms sometimes employed to indicate recurrent breath!essness in certain affections of the heart, kidneys, or blood, whilst by thymic asthma is meant an affection characterised by reciu-rent dyspnoea immediately due to laryngeal spasm. But the use of the word asthma by itself is limited to that ailment which is characterised by recurrent attacks of dyspnoea connected with changes in the bronchi. The term bronchial asthma is by many regarded as synonymous with asthma, but by others a distinction is made, bronchial asthma being looked upon as a bronchitis with recurrent dyspnoea, whilst asthma is considered to be a special affection of the bronchi of which changes in the mucous membrane are a complication. It is not possible, however, to draw clinically any distinct line between these two forms. This is well seen in so-called hay asthma, where the same cause may lead to bronchitis with slight recurring dyspnoea or to the most typical paroxysmal attacks. Origin and Course. — Asthma most com- monly develops out of what appears to be an ordinary catarrh. On this may supervene a sudden paroxysm of dyspnoea lasting a few or