APPENDICITIS 244 takes place in the ctecum, why should this set xip an inflammatory condition more than fnecal impaction in the sigmoid flexure—a much more common site for such an occurrence 1 Peri-typhlitis, para-typhlitis, and epi-typhlitis are terms which are now almost obsolete, and are quite unnecessai-y ; they refer to the situa- tion, not the origin of the inflammation, for they all owe their origin to a primary inflam- mation of the appendix. The position of the appendix will determine the site of the sur- rounding inflammation, whether beneath, above, or alongside the ca3cum. It was formerly thought that peri-typhlitis was due to an in- flammation of the cellular tissue behind the caecum. Now that we know that the csecum almost invariably floats free, and is covered by peritoneum on all sides, behind as well as in front, inflammation of the cellular tissue around it is an impossibility. In all inflammations about the csecal region inspect the appendix, the fault will almost invariably lie with it. The appendix may be seriously diseased, even should it appear ex- ternally perfectly healthy. Anatomy. — The appendix is a degenerated ancestral cseum, and is situated at the posterior and lower part of the caecum. In early foetal life it is in direct continuation with the caecum, and seems to be its tapering extremity; this form of caecum and appendix, in a small per- centage of cases, persists, and is situated higher up than usual, but generally the appendix has an inner and posterior position, because in development the anterior part of the caecum grows faster than the posterior, and hence causes the part which was lowest to be posterior. The opening of the appendix into the caecum is near the ileo-caecal valve. The three longi- tudinal bands which run down on the caecum meet at the appendix, and are continued down upon it. The appendix measures about three and a half inches in length; it may only measure half an inch, and again may be six inches in length, and it has been reported absent. The writer on one occasion removed a process which measured nine inches. The average width of the vermiform process is a quarter of an inch; it has connected with it a mesentery (meso-appendix) triangular in shape, and this contains blood-vessels and nerves —the artery runs along the free edge of the mesentery, which is shorter than the border in contact with the process, and from this cause the appendix is curled up on itself ] in many adults the mesentery does not reach to the end of the process, which is quite free and covered by peritoneum. The usual position of the appendix is upwards and inwards, pointing toward the spleen and behind the caecum and its mesentery. In many cases it hangs over the brim of the pelvis, in others again it is situated posterior to the caecum, having a direction towards the right kidney. It may be hidden away in one of the ileo-caecal fossae. The positions in which the appendix may lie are very various. In cases of floating caecum, where the ascending colon has a long mesentery, it may be anywhere—in the left iliac fossa, pelvis, near the umbilicus, and on one occasion, during an operation for appendicitis, the writer saw it above the stomach and attached to the lesser omentum. The lumen of the appendix varies considerably, being much greater in young people than in old —Ribbert asserts that the cavity of the vermi- form process tends to inidergo obliteration ; 400 cases were examined, and in 25 per cent the process was more or less obliterated. In 50 per cent of the obliterated cases its distal fourth only, and 3'5 per cexit the whole process was a solid cord. This tendency to obliteration in- creases with age, and may be regarded as a degenerative process. Structure.—Like the intestine it has an ex- ternal, serous, and peritoneal coat, two muscular coats, outer longitudinal, inner circular, a sub- mucous and a mucous layer. In the mucosa are a number of lymphoid follicles and tissue resembling somewhat that found in the tonsil. These lymphoid glands vary much in number, and where there is a tendency to obliteration of the cavity the lymph follicles are few in number or absent altogether. The extreme end of the appendix is usually made up of fibrous tissue, and is often bulbous — the lymphatics are arranged as in the intestines, and are connected with lymphatics of the small intestine. Its single artery, which runs along the free border of its mesentery, is derived from the ileo-colic, and distributes its branches to the process as it goes. Besides its proper mesentery there is a fold from the ileum to the meso-appendix which is devoid of blood-vessels, and is the remains of the original mesentery (Treves). It is held by some that any displacement or distension of the caecum would make tense this fold, and tend to cause a kinking or twisting of the appendix, and thus produce congestion, tumefaction, and catarrhal inflammation. jEtwlogy.—Being the organ which is a rudi- ment, and, so to speak, functionless, its vitality is low and its resisting powers not sufficient to cope with its very imfavourable surroundings. Its dependent condition, and the fact that it communicates with the large bowel by a naiTOw orifice, and this protected often by a valve which prevents its contents getting free exit, predisposes in every way to inflammatoryattacks, especially as micro-organisms are always present. Appendicitis occurs at all ages, but most commonly between twenty and thirty; it may occur in the infant of a few months old and in old people over eighty. It is more common in