148 ANESTHETICS—CHLOROFORM extremities, it is often unnecessary to push the anaesthesia to its extreme degree. Peculiarities of Children. — In the case of young children we observe, as we do in the lower animals, whose nervous organisation so much resembles theirs, that between the occur- rence of profound anaesthesia and the onset of signs of imminent death the interval is a very short one compared with that of the adult, so that a few extra inhalations of chloroform may throw the child into a dangerous state. In the adult the interval is a considerable one, and the narcosis may be pushed decidedly beyond the stage of the most absolute antesthesia without much danger. Care is therefore most important in the case of children not to continue the chloroform after the antesthesia is complete, even by a single respiration. In children generally the anaesthesia is less regular than in adults ; the cornea, for example, is often quite insensitive in them before other parts have lost their sensation. Air - Passages — 02:>erations. — In operations affecting the air-passages, such as cleft palate, excision of the upper jaw, etc., where blood may gravitate into the air-passages and favour in- spiration of blood, infarction of the lungs, (obstruction of the larynx or trachea, or subse- quent septic pneumonia, it has been advised to operate with the head hanging over the end of the table (Edmund Rose's method), the blood thus running out of the nostrils and over the face, instead of into the throat and larynx; or, in lieu of this, to prevent the blood being inspired, by a preliminary tracheotomy (Trendelenburg's method), with plugging of the trachea around the introduced cannula by means of an inflatable rubber tampon or one of sponge. And in operations involving the mouth and cheeks where the ordinary administration of the anaesthetic must be arrested that the operation may proceed, inflation of the vapour of chloro- form by a rubber handball, or other means, has also been practised. It is, however, far less dangerous and more satisfactory, in such cases, alternately to discon- tinue the chloroform entirely while the operation proceeds, and renew its administration when the patient shows signs of returning consciousness. Far too much has been made of the danger of inhalation of blood ; it is even doubtful whether, in the vast majority of cases where it occurs, it ever reaches the lungs at all, and certainly experi- ence has shown that there is less risk to life in hazarding a little entrance of blood by using the interrupted anaesthesia just described, than in making use of either the posture of the over- hanging head, which encourages very free venous bleeding, or the method of prophylactic tracheotomy. Falling hack of the Tongue.—Falling back of the relaxed tongue during profound anaesthesia is an unpleasant and even dangerous occurrence, unless promptly treated. It occurs in many, but not all persons. When choking sounds in the throat, and cessation of the entrance of air into the chest during inspiration, show that this accident has taken place, it should be at once remedied. For this, various plans have been practised. Some place their fingers behind the angles of the jaw and press this bone forwards, relieving the obstruction by moving the base of the tongue forward with it. Others, by the utmost manual extension of the chin, raise the epiglottis from over the cavity of the larynx. But it is simpler and better to turn the face well to one side, until the cheek lies flat on the pillow, when the base of the tongue falls to one side and leaves the air-passages free. Should this plan fail of remedying the condi- tion, it is best to seize the tongue an inch behind its tip, between the blades of a Liston's artery forceps, one blade being placed above, the other below the tongue in its central line, and draw the organ forcibly out of the mouth. The small pimcture of the tongue so made gives no trouble, and the grasp is more quickly and perfectly applied than by any of the blunt tongue-forceps invented for the purpose, and which, besides, the general practitioner is not likely to have by him. Where it is necessary to hold the tongue forward for a long period, instead of damaging it by the prolonged or repeated use of the forceps, producing a lacerated condition that is painful and interferes with proper feeding after- wards, it is preferable to transfix the tongue in its centre, one inch behind its tip, by a handled needle, and convey a loop of strong, thick silk thread through it, so that by passing the two free ends of the silk through the loop and draw- ing them tight, the organ is firmly grasped in a noose that gives a secure hold, and cuts or lacerates it less than any alternative procedure. Apparent Chloroform Death. ■— Volumes, have been written on the important subject of apparent chloroform death, and it has been hotly debated whether it begins by failure of the heart's action or by failure of the respira- tion. Both of these causes occur, but it very often, perhaps usually, commences with heart- failure, at least in the more dangerous forms of apparent death. Theoretically too, differences of opinion have been expressed as to whether the circulation or the respiration alone should be watched for early evidences of danger. But the practical chloroformist concerns him- self little during the administration with such questions, and watches both circulation and re- spiration as is most natural and easy. And he observes that, when serious danger threatens, both pulse and respiration fail, and improve again together as he resuscitates his patient. Any failure of either is accompanied by an alarming change of coloiu- of the face, and both should be treated at once and in the same way. The operator should be warned that the