BONE, DISEASES OF 441 afforded during typhoid fever,—erosions in the mouth, nose, and throat, blisters and sloughs of the skin, and ulcers in the intestine. During- typhoid fever, the bone-marrow is markedly congested, and appears to favour the lodgment of the bacillus in its tissues; thus lodged, it is capable of persisting for long periods until some injury or other factor determines its return to active life. It has been found in pure culture in the marrow seven years after an attack of typhoid fever. The lesions in the l)ones may or may not be attended by suppuration, and they may involve the marrow or the periosteum, or both. They may be solitary or multiple. Their favourite seat is in the ribs, at the costo-chondral j mictions, and in the tibia. Where unattended by sup- puration, the lesion may recover completely, or apparently recover, and then recur. When pus is formed, it presents, on examination, a pure culture of the typhoid bacillus. The abscess may be dumb-bell shape, one part under the periosteinn, and the other in the marrow; the two communicate with each other by a hole or sinus in the shell of the bone. Some authors describe the action of the typhoid bacillus on the tissues as necrosing rather than pyogenic, resembling in this respect the tubercle bacillus; the exudation is then largely composed of granulation tissue which inidergoes pseudo- caseation, and conversion later into a brown or red syrupy liquid. Clinical Features.—The l)one lesions arc much more often a sequel of typhoid than of occurrence during its course. The majority occur during the seventh or eighth week. They are never met with in individuals who have not had typhoid fever. They are more often met with inider the age of thirty. The symptoms are almost entirely local. There is little disturbance in the general health : fever may be absent altogether. The symptoms develop insidiously in the shape of vague pains in the bones. After being in several bones, they usually become localised in one part of the skeleton. They are aggravated by movement, or by handling the bone, and they are worse at niglit. They may disappear spontaneously, but reappear again later. Tliere may be redness and oedema of the over- lying soft parts. Swelling may form with vague fluctuation over the bone. On incision there escapes a yellow creamy pus, (ir a brown syrupy fluid. The lesion appears to be purely periosteal in the majority of cases. Complete resolution is common enough. Some authors have oljserved resolution of the suppuration, after drawing ofl" some of_ the pus through a trocar and cannula. Simple incision of the periosteum is more often practised, and results in recovery. The joint may fill with pus, and yet recover completely. Some thickening of bone may persist, or there may form a superficial sequestrum. Death of the bone is exceptional. Diagnosis.—Where the abscess develops very slowly like a cold abscess, or where no pus is formed, the condition may resemble tuberculous disease of the bone. Stress is to be laid on tlie history of typhoid, or the recognition of its presence, and on the bacteriological examination of the pus or other fluid obtained on puncture or on incision of the periosteum. Prognosis. — In pure infections with tlie typhoid bacillus it is favoural)le. It may be regarded as fortunate that the bone complication usually occurs after subsidence of the fever. Recovery is assured, but is apt to be slow; a relapse is not unconnnon. The ijrognosis is less favourable if the infection of the typhoid bacillus is complicated with other organisms, e.g. the Streptococcus pyogenes. Treatment.—Asjiiration of the pus or incision of the periosteum is usually sufficient. Some recommend the clearing out of the wall of the abscess in which the bacilli are lodged. In the cases of the ribs, it may be necessary to resect portions of them. In the rare cases in which the suppuration is in the interior of the bone, it may be necessary to open into the marrow. Combinations op the Preceding Organisms. —Mixed Infections; e.g. Staphylococcus aureus and albus. Staphylococcus aureus and colon bacillus. Staphylococcus aureus and streptococcus. Typhoid and colon l)acilli or typhoid with staphy- lococci or streptococci. Very little is known of them, but they are usually regarded as graver. Infections following the Eruptive Fevers (scarlet, measles, smallpox, etc.) are usually secondary infections by staphylococci, strepto- cocci, and other organisms, gaining entrance through lesions in the mouth, throat, or skin. III. Pyogenic Diseases of Bone from Direct Infection In all the pyogenic diseases considered in the preceding sections, infection has been assumed to have reached the bones through the arteries. There still remain for discussion those which are the result of direct infection, through a wound involving the bone, e.g. compound fractvires, gunshot injuries, osteotomy, amputations, resections, operations for ununited fracture, in all of which the marrow may be exposed to aiiy infection of the wound in the soft parts. In the case of the jaws, the infection may spread to the bone from lesions of the mouth. In the case of the skull, the infection may spread to the bone from lesions of the scalp, or from lesions of the bones themselves, e.g. syphilis, tumour. The lesions included in this group are mueli rarer since the introduction of Listerian surgery. Museums are full of specimens dating from former times. The direct infections diflfer fundamentally from the indirect ones. The patient may be