470 BRAIN, PHYSIOLOGY OF more numerous in its lower portion, forming a distinct group at the point where the fibres bend round to join the other roots. The main motor nucleus of the fifth nerve forms a group of large cells placed a little above the root of the seventh nerve, near the lateral angle of the fourth ventricle, on tlie inner aspect of the sensory nucleus of the fifth nerve. Its fibres arise from its outer aspect, and pass directly outwards and forwards to emerge from the lateral aspect of the pons at about the middle of its vertical extent. The sensory or inferior (ascending) root has a very extensive origin. It begins at the level of the second cervical root, and passes upwards throughout the cervical cord and the medulla, to the level of the motor nucleus of the fifth nerve, where it bends out- wards, and emerges as a broad band of fibres external to the motor root. It is placed super- ficially, in the greater part of its extent, in the dorso-lateral part of the cord and the lateral part of the medulla. It is accompanied liy an iipward extension of the gelatinous substance of the posterior horn, which at the upper limit of the nerve becomes enlarged and forms the sensory nucleus of the fifth nerve in the pons. The fibres of the inferior root give off collaterals and end fibres which terminate in relation to this substantia gelatinosa. The central connections of the fifth nucleus have not yet been clearly traced in man. In the rabbit an ascending tract passes from the cells of the sensory nucleus of the fifth nerve to the opposite side of the medulla. Here it passes upwards, at first anterior to the longi- tudinal fasciculus, but, at higher levels, within the lateral part of the tegmentum. This tract has been traced as far as the ventral nucleus of the optic thalamus. The Seventh Nerve. — The nucleus of the facial nerve is situated in the anterior part of the tegment in the lower part of the pons, near its junction with the medulla. It lies l)etween the superior olive and the inferior root of the fifth nerve. The root-filires pass first backwards and inwards, forming a loojj round the nucleus of the sixth nerve (knee of the facial), and then forwards l^etween the facial nucleus and the inferior root of the fifth nerve, to emerge at the lower border of the pons immediately internal to the auditory nerve. Considerable difference of opinion still exists as to the origin of the fibres of the facial nerve which supply the muscles of the lips, and the orbicularis palpe- brarum and frontalis. Gowers and others derive the fibres to the lips from the hypoglossal nucleus, on what appear to the writer to be insufficient grounds. Others, again, among whom the writer is one, derive the fibres for the orl)icularis palpebrarum and frontalis muscles from a nucleus at a higher level, perhaps in the neighbourhood of the third nucleus. Both of these relationships, however, require further investigation. The Elifhth Nerve.—The eighth nerve has two roots, one derived from the cochlea, and termed the anterior, sitperficial, or cochlear root; the other derived from the semicircular canals, and termed the posterior, deep, or ves- tibular root. The cochlear root terminates in the anterior accessory nucleus of Meynert (or cochlear nucleus) and the tu))er- culum acusticum, a narrow nucleus continuous with the former, and lying like a cap on the restiform body. From these nuclei secondary connections are formed through the corpus tra- pezoideum and the stria; acusticse. The corpus trapezoideum sends fibres to the superior olives of both sides, to both posterior corpora quadrigemina, and to the opposite internal corpus genicu- latum. This last-named struc- ture is directly connected with the superior temporal gyrus by fibres which comj^lete the central path for hearing. This is further strengthened by connections of each posterior corpus quadri- geminmn with the internal geni- culate body of its own side. ■ The path of the strife acustica3 is not so well established. They can be followed from the tuberculuni acusticum inwards across the floor of the fourth ventricle to the raphe, where they pass directly forwards. According to KoUiker they pass Fig. 12.—Diagram of the central jiaths for hearing. Sliows the chaiiiieLs by which auditory impressions reach both hearing centres in tlie cerebral cortex.