502 BRAIN—ATROPHY, HYPERTROPHY, CYSTS, INFLAMMATIONS in syphilitics, scattered areas of sclerosis have been described by Charcot and Gombault, which are more often chronic than acute. Secondary degeneration may result from the destruction of brain tissue. The etiology has been already to some extent given under the table at the commencement of the article. Acute focal encephalitis has re- sulted from influenza, scarlet fever, measles (Henoch), erysipelas, diphtheria, while lately whooping-cough (Neurath) and mumps (Putnam) have been held responsible for individual in- stances. Acute polio-encephalitis hsemorrhagica supe- rior appears to be more specially the result of alcoholism, sulphurous acid, and various poisons, such as from decomposing meat, and lastly influenza. The clinical features vary greatly. In a simple case of acute cerebritis, headache, sometimes vomiting, convulsions, delirium, but rarely optic neuritis, might be described as general pheno- mena, apart from any focal symptoms likely to result. In acute focal encephalitis or polio-encephalitis acuta (hsemorrhagica), the disease occurs in young children, is acute in onset, and accom- panied by fever, vomiting, headache, vertigo, con^'^lsions, rarely general, and sometimes bend- ing backwards of the head. There is generally a well-defined stage of irritation, which gives place to a paralytic stage. The symptoms just referred to characterise the irritation stage, while paralysis of muscles or limbs, monoplegia, hemi- plegia, sometimes aphasia, with eventually stupor and coma, develop during the second part of the illness. Cheyne-Stokes' breathing is not un- common, and the pulse is often rapid. Optic neuritis may occur, and sometimes paralysis of cranial nerves. Death generally results in one to two weeks. Where recovery ensues, such sequelae as epilepsy, hemichorea, and often im- becility, very frequently develop. In polio- encephalitis acuta hsemorrhagica superior, be- sides the ophthalmoplegia to which it gives rise, there is the same svidden onset, generally in a patient who has long indulged in excess of alcohol. There is generally little pyrexia, but sleeplessness, restlessness, almost amounting to delirium, rarely stupor, and then the gradual increasing ophthalmoplegia, with sometimes the levator palpebrte superioris or the sphincter iridis exempted. Nystagmus is common, and often difficulty in walking, much like cerebellar ataxia, is noted. Optic neuritis may also occur in some cases. In what is described as acute diffuse non- suppurative encephalitis, the lesion may closely resemble in character the hEcmorrhagic polio- encephalitis already referred to, being in this instance simply more extensive in area; but there are other cases which are rarely so acute, and if they begin acutely, generally become chronic. These are probably almost entirely of syphilitic origin, although any toxic agent may be responsible for a proportion of the cases. The clinical features of this type of encephalitis, without entering upon the subject of cerebral syphilis, consist of dull, sometimes deep-seated, headache, fever with delirium, or occasionally stupor. Convulsions and focal phenomena, such as twitching, spasms, and later paralysis, may be well marked, and not infrequently there is ancBsthesia. The disease may advance fairly rapidly, or may become quiescent and more chronic. In some cases an extensive area of brain, such as one hemisphere, may be involved. So-called disseminated encephalitis may give rise both to general and focal symptoms, and may eventually become, where pus - forming organisms are present, a disseminated suppura- tive encephalitis. No special reference is required to the clinical features due to the inflammation resulting from a hsemorrhage or patch of softening (non- inflammatory in origin). It is the irritation of a foreign body, and probably the rise of temperature, twitchings, and irritation pheno- mena manifested twelve to twenty-four hours after a cerebral haemorrhage are due to this fre- quently trivial and very localised encephalitis. The Diagnosis.—It is always difficult to be certain where encephalitis has commenced until definite symptoms referable to the brain render the diagnosis certain. This is so, for instance, in traumatic cases where the brain has lieen injured by a punctured wound. The extraordinary acuteness of the hsemor- rhagic cases and the ophthalmoplegia where polio-encephalitis acuta hsemorrhagica superior occurs help greatly in the diagnosis. In the diffuse non - suppurative encephalitis due to syphilis there may be the greatest difficulty in recognising the exact nature of the disease, and distinguishing it from diffuse meningitis. The two conditions are often combined, but as a rule diffuse encephalitis, if recovered from, leaves marked permanent effects, and in diff'use encephalitis there is more intellectual loss than in diffuse meningitis. A focal encephalitis may, if recovered from, leave no mental defect. In all the forms of non-suppurative encephalitis, optic neuritis is much less common than in cases of cerebral tumour or abscess, but it does occur. The prognosis varies with the type of enceph- alitis under consideration. It is bad in the hsemorrhagic types, and in all cases where a virulent toxin or micro-organism is concerned locally with the condition. Syphilitic cases may improve under treatment, and the inflammation around a haemorrhage or patch of softening is only serious when it is very severe in degree. The encephalitis associated with traumatic, tuberculous, or other forms of meningitis may be considered to be secondary to the meningeal