130 ANEMIA In no case, therefore, should the blood examina- tion be neglected. Causes.—In health there is a constant de- struction of red corpuscles, and a constant re- placing of the loss by the formation of new corpuscles in the bone-marrow and their passage into the general blood - stream. Some self- regulating mechanism, of which we have no knowledge, keeps the average number the same, and ensures that each corpuscle shall contain the proper amount of hfemoglobin. It is obvious that ana3mia may result either from destruction or loss of corpuscles or hsemoglobin to such an extent that the bone-marrow is unable to com- pensate for the drain on the blood, or from so imperfect a formation of red corpuscles or hsemoglobin that the normal percentage of loss is not made up. The type of the former case is the anaemia that occurs after a large haemorrhage; of the latter, chlorosis is perhaps the best example. It is, however, extremely rare to find anaemias where both these processes are not going on to- gether, for a blood which is impoverished by the loss of haemoglobin cannot adequately nourish the bone-marrow, so that corijuscle and haemo- globin formation must inevitably lag behind the normal rate. Clinically it is often impossible to say whether any given case is due more to blood- destruction or to lack of blood-formation. The causes of anaemia are as numerous as the injuries and diseases which affect the human frame. The blood is so intimately associated with each tissue and organ that it inevitably reflects every change in them. Many of these changes are so slight that they escape our present methods, but even with the coarse means of diagnosis that we possess, much more can be learned from the blood in the most diverse diseases than most of us are in the habit of trying to ascertain. Certain diseases bear more heavily upon the blood and the blood-forming or blood-purifying organs than others, and are therefore more likely to cause anaemia. All conditions where haemorrhage, acute or chronic, occurs will cause antemia if the loss of blood is sufficiently great, or, which is just as important, is repeated sufficiently often. Haemophilia, purpura, scurvy, nose-bleeding, haemorrhoids, menorrhagia, haemoptysis, and haematemesis are among the causes of many anaemias. If food insufficient in quantity or imperfect in quality is given, as in starvation ; if the digestive glands cannot deal with it; if the intestine cannot absorb it, or if putrefactive processes go on in the bowel as the result of constipation or from the presence of parasites, the nourishment supplied to the blood - forming organs will be insufficient. If the general health is lowered by bad hygienic conditions, by the strain of preg- nancy, or the drain of lactation, the blood soon suffers; and it is also surely affected if the circulation is impeded by cardiac or vascular disease, or aeration interfered with by disease of the lungs. In the two last conditions, however, cyanosis is very apt to occur, and this may prevent us from making a diagnosis of anaemia though it may really be present, as we are onlj'^ able, unfortunately, to examine the blood in the peripheral vessels, and in these, in cyanosis, the proportion of red corpuscles to plasma is always increased. If the liver, which plays so important a part in the metabolism of the blood - plasma, be diseased, the plasma may be so altered that the corpuscles break down more readily than they should do; if the spleen, one of whose functions is probably the destruction of effete red cor- puscles, becomes increasingly active, anaemia will result. The kidney, if it be inflamed or cirrhosed, may cease to excrete material which, if retained in the blood, will destroy corpuscles or interfere with their formation. A very large and very serious class of anaemias arc due to parasites, animal or vegetable. Of the first class the ankylostoma causes repeated small intestinal haemorrhages, the bothrio- cephalus poisons its host by dying and decom- posing in his intestine, the malarial plasmodium passes through its cycle of development within the red corpuscles of its host, and destroys them in the process. Bacterial infections are still more common, and may cause corpuscle de- struction either by the presence of organisms in the blood, by their toxins, or indirectly by the fever and the interference with the functions of organs such as the alimentary canal, the liver, and kidney, which they cause, or in chronic cases by the prolonged suppuration and con- sequent loss of albuminous material to which they give rise. Many organisms may cause anaemia in a still more subtle way. They give rise to leucocytosis, which makes it necessary for the bone-marrow to manufacture leucocytes instead of red corpuscles, and thus the available blood - forming space is seriously encroached upon. The repeated ingestion of such mineral poisons as lead, arsenic, and mercury may pro- duce anaemia, partly by their action on the ali- mentary canal, partly by a special action on the blood. Another very important class of anaemias is due to malignant disease, especially to carci- noma, and most of all to carcinomas of the ali- mentary canal. They are apt to be very severe, and in the absence of a discoverable tumour are very often mistaken for pernicious anaemia, from which indeed they can sometimes only be dis- tinguished by careful examination of the blood. But besides these anaemias " secondary" to other conditions, there are others for which the most careful search has as yet failed to find an adequate cause, and these are known as " primary " anaemias. They are chlorosis, per- nicious ansemia, and the different forms of leucocythaemia. We have no reason to believe that these are really due to primary diseases of