ANEURYSM 180 if the wound is infected, makes a decision very difficult. The case may be put thus :—In small circumscribed aneurysms proximal ligature as near the sac as possible will probably succeed. Here excision would be easy, and more certain to cure and leave a good result. In bad cases with impeded circulation, or with marked evi- dence of pressure upon nerves, excision, though difficult, gives the best chance of preserving life and limb, and of removing oedema, weakness, pain, or paralysis. In htematomata the old operation may show that a branch, not the trunk, has been wounded. In recurrent pulsa- tion after proximal ligature resisting simple treatment, excision is easier than the discovery and ligature of collateral branches — and it is certain. In arterio-venous communications there is no other cure. SuBcLAVIAN Aneurysm.—Causes.—Subclavian aneurysms are said to occur somewhat less fre- (^uently than carotid. Like axillary aneurysms they are much commoner in men than in women, and at least 70 per cent occur upon the right side — both facts pointing to the influence of strain. So well is the vessel protected from direct injury, and so commonly does wound end in death from hjemorrhage, that there are few instances of arterial hsematoma on record. Arterial hsematoma or traumatic aneurysm has in rare instances followed quickly upon fracture of the clavicle. By some, fracture of the first rib is regarded as a possible cause. In the great majority of cases there is no history of direct injury. In no fewer than five instances has aneurysm supervened in cases of cervical rib over which the subclavian passed. Course and Symptoms. — Subclavian aneu- rysms are usually of slower course than axillary. Stationary aneurysms and aneurysms controlled for some time by a simple padded cap have per- haps been more frequent here than elsewhere, and spontaneous cure seems to have been more common in this than in any other situation. A few of these cures have been brought about by inflammation and even sloughing of the sac. Rupture may occur into the tissues ; externally, in the pleura or Vjronchus. The third part of the artery is by far the most frequently affected, the second very rarely except by extension from the third. An aneu- rysm of the third part usually varies from a walnut to an apple in size, and lies above the clavicle just outside the edge of the sterno- mastoid. It tends to pass down behind the clavicle, and thus to render certainty as to the exact seat of the aneurysm an impossibility (sub- clavio - axillary). Arterial haematomata and diffuse aneurysms push their way in diverse directions—up even to the jaw, down into the thorax and axilla, back under the scapula almost to the spine. The displacement of the arm and shoulder can be imagined, and drop- ping of the head towards the shoulder, to relieve tension, is natural. The subclavian vein is often compressed, sometimes leading to gangrene; so also the external jugular and its tributaries, leading to oedema and thickening of the side of the neck and above the clavicle, which may greatly complicate treatment. The brachial plexus may suffer even more severely than in axillary cases, the pain being often described by observers in the strongest superlatives. Paralysis may be complete. It is said that the phrenic may be irritated or compressed. Diagnosis.—The common difficulties previously referred to are encountered. The occasional occurrence of a cervical rib over which the artery runs should be I'emembered. Treatment.—Souchon has collected 115 cases —several being subclavio-axillary—treated by almost every known method. Many of the cases date from the septic era, and afford no certain ground for conclusions as to the value of the various operations pi'actised. The whole ques- tion has still to be worked out with asepsis and sunk ligatures applied so as not to rupture any arterial tissue. Cures by direct compression, by means of a soft rubber ball suitably fixed over the aneu- rysm, have been recorded ; proximal compression has succeeded when the artery passed over a cervical rib on which it could be compressed ; Macewen regarded as an aneurysm of the first part of the left subclavian one in which needling yielded the best result. Here, where the dangers of operative treatment are so great, all reasonable non - operative means should be employed before passing to operative measures. The results of these have hitherto been ex- tremely bad ; but, curiously enough, not nearly so bad upon the left side as upon the right. Wyeth suggests as an explanation of the differ- ence that the vessels on the right are exposed to the direct rush of blood from the heart. With regard to arterial hoematomata—what should be done? In Lewtas' case ligature of the innominate and carotid succeeded—the wound lying beneath the scalene. In Twynam's the patient died of cerebral complication; post- mortem, an opening was found in the first part of the subclavian close to the origins of the vertebral, thyroid axis, and internal mammary. This does not seem satisfactory ; yet, in view of Lewtas' success, one cannot say that proximal ligature will not succeed. The alternative is to secure the vessel above and below the woimd. This may be done in two ways : 1st, the method of Syme, i.e. introducing the finger into the hfematoma through a hole which it plugs, feel- ing for the point at which blood escapes from the artery, and compressing this during the further operation. The opening being closed, the wound must be enlarged sufficiently to allow the vessel to be cleared proximally and distally to the wound and tied. Proximal control of the trunk would render this easy; but there is no case