ALLOPATHY 109 Allopa,thy.—Disease or pain due to ex- ternal agencies acting- on the body; morbid changes in one part of the body due to disease or injury in another; also, the name given Ijy Hahneinaiin (when he introduced homffiopathy) to the ordinary medical usage of his day. See Medicine, History of. AllOXcin.—■ Erythric acid; a crystalline substance obtained by the action of nitric acid upon uric acid ; when treated by dilute acids it is decomposed into urea, oxalic acid, and alloxantin. See Uric Acid. AllOXin.—A basic substance derived from the nuclcin of cell nuclei, forming uric acid by oxidation ; such are adenin, guanin, and xanthin. AllOXUr-bodieS. See Gout and Uric Acid. Ally I.—A univalent radicle (CgH^), known also as acryl and propylenyl, occurring (as allyl isothyocyanate) in volatile oil of mustard (counter-irritant), and (as persulphide of allyl) in essential oil of garlic (which has been used in the treatment of cholera (by enemata) and in the hypodermic medication of phthisis). Almonds in Diet. See Amygdala; Invalid Feeding. Aloes and Aloin. AS'ee Constipation ; Purgatives. Barbados Aloes {Aloe Barbadensis) contains aloin (or barbaloin), the active principle, as well as a resin, etc.; its dose is 2 to 5 grains; its preparations are the Extractum Aloes Barba- densis (dose, 1 to 4 grains), the Decoctum Aloes Conipositum (dose, ^ to 2 fl. oz.), the Tinctura Aloes (dose, h to 2 fl. dr.), the Pilula. Aloes Barbadensis (dose, 4 to 8 grains), and the Pilula Aloes et Ferri (dose 4 to 8 grains); it is also contained in other pills {e.g. the Colocynth and Hyoscyamus pill). Socotrine Aloes {Aloe Socotrina) is very similar and has the same dose (2 to 5 grains); its preparations are the Pihda. Aloes Socotrinai (dose, 4 to 8 grains), the Pihda Aloes et Asafetida (dose, 4 to 8 grains), and the Pilula Aloes et Myrrhce (dose, 4 to 8 grains); it also enters into the composition of the Com- pound Rhubarb Pill, and the Compoinid Tincture of Benzoin (Friar's Balsam). Aloin, either in the form of barbaloin or socoaloin, may be used instead of aloes in doses of i to 2 grains. Aloes is very conmionly used in chronic constipation, especially in that form associated with anajmia, when it is usefully combined with iron and iiux vomica. The griping is less marked when aloin is used, and hyoscyamus may be employed to diminish it still further. Aloes acts as an emmenagogue, and its use is forbidden in preg- nancy and menorrhagia. Alopecia. Definition . . . . .10!) Varieties and Etiology — Conr/enital . . . . .109 Senile 109 Premature . . . . .109 Alopecia areata . . . .111 Treatment . . . . . .113 See also Nails, Affections of the ; Preg- nancy, Intra-Utbrine Diseases; Skin, Bac- teriology of the, and Diseases of Sweat and Sebaceous Glands ; Syphilis ; Typhoid Fever. Alopecia is the term applied to baldness arising- from any cause. The chief varieties of baldness are usually classified under three headings, con- genital, senile, and premature. The name alopecia areata is used to signify a special form of baldness, and will be described later. Congenital Alopecia.—This is a rare con- dition, and when present is often associated with other deformities of the skin. It may V)e universal or in patches. In connection with the latter form it is important to recollect that the distribution of the hair varies in different himian races. Some of the varieties of patchy congenital baldness may be related to inherited developmental characteristics. It is not un- common to find a scanty development of hair as a family peculiarity. Senile Alopecia. — The shedding of hair which occurs as the consequence of age is caused by the failing nutrition, from which all organs suffer, and which produces characteristic changes in the skin. The alterations in tiie elastic tissue winch are peculiar to the senile skin, and the gradual atrophy of the otlier skin structures, show the want of full nutrition and the failure of the function of the tissues, and one of the consequences is that the hair is shed. This change shows itself, as a rule, first in the scalp, the skin of the vertex being first affected. The area of baldness increases till only a fringe of hair may be left at the margins of the scalp. Simultaneously with the loss of hair on the vertex, the baldness frequently advances on each side from the frontal region, leaving at first the central crest of hair unaftected. Gradu- ally the hair of the central region also falls. More rarely the shedding of the hair is general from the commencement. The loss of hair may be noted over the whole body, due to the same causes. Premature Alopecia.—Baldness especially of the scalp occurs also in young persons, and may progress to such a degree as to cause almost total baldness liefore the age of thirty; not in- frequently it may be seen to commence at about the age of twenty. This condition is much more common in men than in women. In sucli cases the loss of hair occurs very markedly at each lateral aspect of the frontal region of the head, and spreads backwards to meet a central