BRACHIAL PLEXUS, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF 459 from the cord—than in Erli's paralysis or in fractures of the chivicle and other similar con- ditions. Treatmient. — The general management of symptoms and of trophic ti'oiiljles does not differ from that employed in other regions, but the question arises whether, and if so when, we are justified in oijerating upon the injured nerves. A dogmatic answer is hardly possible, l)ut the following rules may be found useful: — (1) Injuries of the clavicle with severe brachial symptoms certainly call for operation with re- position and wiring; tears of nerves should then be looked for and sutured. (2) Where the mechanism of injury indicates a tear with prob- able separation of the ends of the nerves, suture ought to be attempted at once, but is practicable only if the lesion be at some little distance from the spinal cord (as indicated by absence of pupillary symptoms or of paralysis of the rhomboids or serratus magnus). (3) In other cases we should at least defer operation for some weeks and be satisfied that recovery of function is not in progress. (4) In old-standing cases operation is at least worth a trial, although by no means hopeful. In hopeless cases of Erb's paralysis or of obstetrical paralysis the affected limb may be rendered far more useful by means of an artificial support to the elbow to counteract the paralysis of its flexors, or by arthrodesis of that joint; and in hopeless cases of complete paralysis amputation may be useful to remove a useless liml), especially when trophic ulcerations render it a source of danger. Pressure Lesions of the brachial plexus are most typically met with when caused by a supernumerary cervical rib, })ut all kinds of tumours of the neck and axilla, aneurysms of the subclavian artery, and the like, are lial)le to compromise its structures. An accessory cer- vical ril) usually produces symptoms in early adult life by pressing upon the lower cervical roots, and such symptoms are not rarely bilateral. Most commonly there is first observed a neur- algia on the inner side of the forearm (first dorsal root) with or without hyperalgesia, and some loss of tactile sense passing on to distinct amesthesia; the muscles of the hand, and to ;i less extent those of the forearm, become weakened and much atrophied ; trophic changes may ensue in the inner fingers; the pupillary and orbital fibres escape injury, as they lie above the rib ; the bony prominence is felt in the posterior triangle of the neck, and pressure on it often causes tingling pain in the inner side of the upper limb. In other cases of pressure the symptoms are similar in natm-e, but vary in- definitely in extent and degree. The treatment of all these cases consists in the removal of the ' source of pressure. Neuralgia of the l)rachial plexus is conmion, and may involve the whole, or far more often a | portion only, of its roots or branches. In the majority of such cases seen liy the writer, flis- tinct rheumatic lesions have also occurred, and the neuralgia has yielded to the use of sali- cylates ; it may then be regarded as a truly rheinuatic manifestation. Influenza appears to cause some cases, which are pro])al)ly due to a localised neuritis. Many are due to injury, such as falls or blows upon the head, neck, or shoulder, and are presumably due to the for- mation (jf perineural cicatrices. Others result from gross pressure, and in all cases the posterior triangle of the neck and the axilla should be most carefully examined for any such soui-ce of pressure. Lastly, there remain, here as else- where, a group of neuralgias of whicli the causation and pathology are equally oliscure. The essential symptom is pain usually in the distribution of a definite nerve root or branch, often intermittent, constantly associated with tingling and stabljing, and either with or without loss of precise tactile sensation. In addition to the general treatment of neuralgia, we may in sevei'e cases adopt one of the two following operations :—(1) Stretching the plexus through a free incision has given some excellent results and is well worthy of trial. (2) Division of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves after laminectomy (Bennett, Abbe) has not yet been attempted sufliciently often to have obtained a recognised position in surger}', but is practica}>le and advisable in the most liopeless cases. Operations.—Exposure of the l)rachial jjlexus may be called for under the following circum- stances :—(1) For j^rimary suture of wounds and tears ; (2) for neuroplastic operation in old injuries; (.3) for the removal of sources of pressure ; (4) for nerve-stretching. In many of these cases the exact nature of the procedure will be governed by collateral considerations, such as the presence of an accidental wound, a fracture, or a tumour ; but in others the liest incision is a vertical one along the anterior border of the trapezius. For more extensive operations this incision can be carried down the anterior l)order of the deltoid, the clavicle l)eing temporarily resected when a most satisfactory field of operation is secured. Aftei- division of the platysma and deep cervical fascia, and ligatiu'e or retraction of numerous veins, the plexus is at once seen in the floor of the wound escaping from the outer border of the anterior scalene muscle, and covered by ;i lax cellular tissue which is readily torn apart. The lowest root and cord are overlaid by the sub- clavian and axillary arteries, \mt a little care is alone needed for its identification and separa- tion. After thus exjjosing the nerves, suture or stretching is readily performed by ordinary methods. Brachi- and Brachio-.—As prefixes