184 ANEURYSM later a nut-sized aneurysm of the posterior tibial. As the aneurysm increases and diffuses, symp- toms of pressure on veins and nerves become marked, and more or less extensive gangrene may occur. So, too, may suppuration. These aneurysms are difficult to recognise, difficult to locate exactly, and difficult to treat. In the matter of simple recognition the bruit is important. In endeavouring to refer the aneurysm to its artery, the pulse, the conduction of the bruit, and the level of the point of greatest swelling and pulsation must be relied upon. The greatest difficulty arises in aneu- rysms of the end of tlie popliteal and commence- ment of the tibials. The post, tibial may be felt pulsating over a sac on the anterior tibial. Without a good history the diagnosis of suppuration may be imjjossible. The state of the pulse below is very important. Treatment. — Easily accessible hsematomata and aneurysms should be excised. Diffuse haematomata must be incised and the vessel tied. If a fracture is the cause, the bones should be sutured. In bad fractures thus complicated the question of amputation will arise. Circumscribed hsematomata may get well while the fracture is in splints; naturally, the toes must be carefully watched. In deep circumscribed htematomata and aneurysms, elevation, compression of the femoral, or Reid's bandage may be tried. These failing, the popliteal may be tied. Bvit if there is much circulatory difficulty, the sac should be removed. The greatest difficalty would arise in dealing with a sac on the anterior tibial between the bones. Popliteal Aneurysm.—These constitute more than half of all cases of external aneurysm (128 of 240 cases). Heematomata are rare, but may arise from stabs or fragments in supra-condylar fractures. A few aneurysms have seemed due to friction against exostoises and abnormal spines of bone ; a few to embolism. The great majority are spontaneous and occur in men. Symmetrical aneurysms are not uncommon. A popliteal aneurysm has very rarely opened into its vein; but a good many cases of direct communication from wound have been recorded. The special frequency with which this vessel is affected has not been certainly explained. Some point to the effect of full flexion in kinking it, intercepting the flow of blood along it and suddenly raising the pressure, but this move- ment is not very common; others think that it is the longitudinal strain due to extension and over-extension which does the mischief; some blame both movements. Broca thought that the arch of the soleus compressed the artery when the muscle contracted ; but, being fibrous, it can hardly do so, and contraction of the muscle would rather draw it from the artery. A special relation to various callings (sailors, lamplighters, jockeys, postillions, carriage-foot- men, tailors), often said to exist, rests upon slender evidence. It occurs in young people, the avei'age age being about thirty-five, before the age of marked atheroma; and it has never been shown that the popliteal is, like the aortic arch, a point at which atheroma is specially liable to appear. A history of syphilis is not disproportionately frequent. Bits of the artery excised with aneurysms are described as healthy. Its special frequency among the labouring classes seems certain, and its apparent origin during effort is common ; but what the con- dition is which causes the popliteal artery to yield rather than another is not clear. Seat.—The sac may spring from any part or aspect of the vessel, displacing the trunk (when possible) in the opposite direction. This dis- placement is most marked when the sac inter- venes between the artery and the bones; more commonly it lies on the dorsal aspect of the vessel. Widely as the sac may cover and even adhere to the artery, the mouth is usually of quite moderate size. A femoro - popliteal aneurysm, protruding through the adductor opening, is rare; a popliteo-tibial, passing under the arch of the soleus, very rare. These aneurysms fall natu- rally into a high and a low group. The higli, occupying the large space above the condyles, do not cause such early or such urgent symptoms as do the low, which are compressed between prominent bones, dense fascia, and a powerful muscle. Further, the low group require for their cure obliteration of numerous articular and sural arteries—difficult to bring about, and when effected offering considerable opposition to the establishment of the collateral circulation. The low group, therefore, closely resemble the rarer, but important, group of high tibial aneurysms. Symptoms.—Often pain or sense of something giving during an eifort is noted. Occasionally weakness of the knee or leg or osdema of the foot first attracts attention. Next come diffi- culty in using the knee, pain in the bone and down the leg, attributed to rheumatism, and a pulsating swelling. Nowhere are the symptoms of aneurysm more typically seen. If untreated the sac enlarges, as a rule, pretty quickly ; it protrudes back- wards and more often inwards than outwards. Extension and full flexion of the knee become impossible; it is kept constantly more or less flexed, and extends slightly with each systole. Flexion is especially marked in low aneurysms on which pressure is greatest. Swelling super- venes ; pain becomes more and more severe, usually along the tibial nerve; paralysis is unusual. In anterior aneurysms the boring pain of erosion of bone may be marked. Patches of gangrene may appear, or more extensive portions of the limb may die. More commonly before this occurs the sac ruptures—into the