402 BLADDER, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF growth, where on a.ccount of the extent and nature of the disease its removal is clearly impracticable. The 02}erative treatment may be considered under two heads, viz. removal of the growth and bladder-drainage. Removal of a vesical tumour is best effected through a suprapubic opening, as this route affords better access to the bladder than the perineal. In cases of papilloma, when peduncu- lated, and also in those exceptional cases of sarcoma, where there is a distinct pedicle, the growth can be completely removed, and under these circumstances the cure will often be per- manent, but in the sessile variety of papilloma, however thorough the removal, there is always a great tendency for recurrence to take place. In the malignant forms of tumour, viz. carcinoma and most cases of sarcoma, operative interference is not attended by satisfactory results, for unless undertaken in the very early stage, and before they have commenced to infiltrate widely or deeply the bladder-wall, the probability of a permanent cure is very slight, though life may be prolonged by the operation. Excision of a considerable portion of the bladder-wall together with the growth has been performed under these circumstances, the ureters being inserted into the rectum or vagina with resection of the pubes, or symphyseotomy, in order to allow of better access, but, as might be expected, the results have not been sufficiently encouraging to recom- mend the adoption of this procedure. In removing a vesical tumour, the bladder should be opened from above the pubes with the same precaution as in suprapubic lithotomy, and the extent and connection of the growth should be carefully ascertained, Fenwick's " caisson- speculum " often proving extremely useful for this purpose. When pedunculated, the pedicle may be twisted off with forceps or divided with scissors; when sessile the growth should be scraped away with the finger-nail or a curette. It is very important to remove all the base as thoroughly as possible, either dissecting it out with scissors, and then, if possible, closing the wound on the inner surface of the bladder-wall with sutures, or applying the thermo-cautery. The after-treatment of the wound is the same as in the case of suprapubic lithotomy, some surgeons closing the opening in the bladder-wall by means of sutures. Bladder - drainage, which is best effected through a suprapubic opening, often gives great relief in cases of malignant tumom-s, where their removal is obviously impracticable, or when it is found to be so after opening and exploring the interior of the bladder. It is indicated in cases where, in addition to free haemorrhage, cystitis is a prominent symptom, causing pain and dysuria, which cannot be relieved by the ordin- ary measures. By establishing a permanent outlet, and allowing the urine to continiially drain away, the bladder is left in a state of complete rest; the result is, that the bleeding either ceases or is greatly diminished, while the pain and straining which accompany the fre- quent, and often ineffectual attempts to pass ' water are at once relieved. At the same time, i the cystitis and the septic condition of the urine, usually present under these circumstances, can be corrected by irrigating the bladder through the suprapubic opening. As a palliative measure, bladder-drainage, therefore, affords great relief, not only prolonging life by checking the loss of blood, but also preventing the drain upon the patient's strength by alleviating the suffering caused by the presence of the growth and the cystitis which it excites. In Females, vesical tumours, when of small size, and especially if peduncvdated, can often be removed through the dilated urethra, it being sometimes possible to draw them down to the orifice of the canal and bring into view their point of attachment to the bladder-wall, from which they can then be dissected or twisted off. If, however, too large or not readily accessible by this route, they shovild be removed through a suprapubic opening, this method being—in the writer's opinion—preferable to vaginal cys- totomy, where an incision is made into the base of the bladder through the anterior vaginal wall. FiSTULiE Vesical Fistula.—Urinary fistulse connected with the bladder may be divided into two classes, viz. Vesico-abdominal and Vesico-visceral. | 1. Vesico-ahdominal.—In this form the fistula ji opens externally on the abdominal wall. It may | be due to penetrating wounds involving the i bladder, or to suppuration in its neighbourhood, as in cases where an abscess bursts internally into the viscus and also externally in the groin ( or lower part of the abdominal wall. It is also \ occasionally met with as the result of non- ! closure of the wound after suprapubic cystotomy. ' (Vide Urachal fistulse.) 2. Vesico-visceral.—In this form there is a communication between the bladder and some j viscus or cavity, e.g. the intestine or vagina. I (a) Vesico - intestirial. — Communications be- I tween the bladder and rectum, " Recto-vesical " 1 fistulse, are not very uncommon as the result of | ulceration of the bladder, which may be either of a simple or malignant nature. They may | also be due to injury, e.g. penetrating wounds ; involving the rectum and bladder, and occasion- | ally follow certain operations, e.g. puncture of j the bladder per rectum, or perineal lithotomy, I when the rectum is accidentally wounded. ; Communications with the small or other parts of ! the large intestine, though less common, are ' sometimes met with as the result of ulceration, which may be either simple or malignant. ' (b) Vesico-vaginal.—Communications between ! the bladder and vagina may be due to similar i