195 ANKLE-JOINT, REGION OF—INJURIES AND DISEASES trial of this method enables us to recommend it very highly in the less severe cases. It will yield a satisfactory result in a much shorter time than any other form of treatment. In severe cases massage should be adopted only after the treatment by cold or heat has been carried out for days, and then it must be com- bined with the use of a supporting bandage. If the limb has been placed in an immovable apparatus, care must be taken not to keep it fixed too long, else adhesions will form, and much trouble and annoyance will be caused. There can be but little doubt that in the past fixation of joints after injury has been carried too far, and the resulting stiffness has occasioned much disappointment. Irregular practitioners, called "bone-setters," have gained much notoriety l)y their treatment of such cases, the breaking down of adhesions having often restored mobility to a joint which had become quite useless. The important point is, therefore, when should a joint be moved which has been the seat of a traumatic synovitis? Much harm attends too prolonged immobility. It will be found that passive motion is certainly indicated when the swelling has subsided, and the temperature of the pai"t, as estimated by the hand or surface thermometer, has fallen to the level of, or, as sometimes happens, is actually below, that of the corresponding uninjured joint. Pain will be felt when passive motion is first adopted, and tliis has often been the signal for the patient to discontinue the treatment, and some amount of firmness is necessary to insist on its being pro- perly carried out. The result must, however, be carefully watched. In tubercidous subjects, especially children, a sprain of the ankle is not infrequently the forerunner of a chronic disease, leading to thickening of the synovial membrane, and, if neglected, to complete disorganisation of the joint. The ankle-joint, after a sprain, may i-emain for a considerable time stiff and swollen, or it is weak and painful. Fixation for too long a period with the formation of adhesions is usually the cause of a stiff ankle, and the conditions can lie overcome by the judicious employment of massage with systematic use of a douche alterTiately of hot and cold water, or, if obtain- able, of tepid sea-water. A stimulating em- brocation will also be useful. More or less permanent weakness of the ankle is also a very troublesome consequence, and may lead to a repetition of the sprain. Massage and judicious use of the joint will usually, after the lapse of some weeks or months, bring about a cure. Meanwhile the ankle will require some sort of support—either an anklet, or, what answers better, an elastic- webbing bandage applied figure-of-eight fashion around the joint. Cycling may also be ad- vantageous. For painful ai-eas, which generally correspond with the attachment of ligaments, much relief will follow daily douching of the part and the rubbing in of an ointment composed of equal parts of iodide of potassium ointment and lanolin. Dislocation or Displacement of the Per- oneal Tendons.—This lesion, although not at all common, sometimes complicates a sprain of the ankle. It should be suspected and looked for when the effects of an ordinary sprain are slow in passing away, also when the patient complains of sudden twinges of pain about the outer ankle whilst walking or standing. When once the luxation has taken place, the slightest cause will reproduce it. It occurs five times as often in men as in women. The two theories in regard to its production may be stated as follows. When the foot is in a position of adduction, a violent contraction of the peroneal muscles will rupture the sheath of the tendons and allow them to escape forwards. According to a second theory, the sheath is torn during a violent muscular effort made to rectify the position of the foot twisted inwards during a fall. In the one case the foot would be in the state of abduc- tion, and in the other, of adduction while the dis- placement is brought about. In the examples on record, both conditions have been observed. The peroneus longus appears to be the tendon more frequently dislocated. Of seventeen exam- ples, eleven were of the peroneus longus alone ; while in six, the two peronei were displaced. The displacement can only take place in one direction, and that is forwards. Generally the tendon or tendons lie on the outer surface of the external malleolus, in some cases reaching as far forwards as its anterior border. The symptoms attending this accident are, sharp pain behind the outer ankle combined with more or less loss of power in the limb. In some cases a sudden stoppage in walking with- out very much pain. Generally the pain dis- appears with the reduction of the tendons, leaving a soreness which often lasts for weeks. In addition to the pain there is a swelling often limited to the track of the tendons, but some- times occupying also the outer side of the heel. It is made up of extravasated blood and effusion into the torn sheath. It generall}- begins to subside in a few^ days, especially if pressure is employed ; some hai'dness may, however, remain for weeks or months. There is, as a rule, uf) difficulty in recognising the condition. The one conclusive sign is the presence under the skin covering the external malleolus of the displaced tendon or tendons. When the case is seen soon after the accident, the tendons can readily be felt rolling imder the fingers. If the swelling has appeared, some amount of pressure will have to be exercised before they can be recognised. The displaced tendons are easily pushed back into their normal position, especially when the ankle-joint is extended. Displacement of the peroneal tendons may complicate a sprain, or it