206 ANKLE-JOINT, REGION OF—INJURIES AND DISEASES commeiiciug two inches above the ankle at the anterior margin of the fibula, and extending forwards over the outer surface of the astragalus on the outside of the extensor tendons nearly to the prominence of the fifth metatarsal bone. The ankle and mid-tarsal joints are opened, while the body and head of astragalus are freely exposed. The interosseous calcaneo-astragaloid ligament is freely exposed and divided. A smaller incision is now made over the lower end of the tibia, and through it the ligaments which still hold the astragalus in position are divided and the bone seized with a strong forceps and removed through the external incision. Excision of the Os Calcis may be required in disease of the bone, also occasionally in cases of injury. It can be accomplished by making a longitudinal incision two inches in length, par- allel with and along the inner margin of the tendo Achillis, the lower end of the cut being over the prominence of the heel. From this point another incision is carried round the heel and forwards along the outer aspect of the foot to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. The tendo Achillis is detached, and the joint capsule at the posterior and outer aspect of the os calcis, together with the calcaneo-fibular band of the external lateral ligament, is severed. The peronei tendons are preserved. The interosseous ligament between the os calcis and astragalus is divided, also the calcaneo-cuboid ligaments, the bone being cleared on its plantar and dorsal aspects. The tendon of the tibialis posticus is drawn upwards over the sustentaculum tali. The os calcis is seized with a pair of long foixeps and forcibly dislodged, and any remaining connec- tions detached, and in doing so the structures on the inner surface of the bone are to be care- fully avoided. After the operation the foot is ■fixed at a right angle with the leg and the heel left exposed. The results of this operation are most en- couraging. Subperiosteal resection, although sometimes practised, is of doubtful utility when the operation is performed in cases of disease. In children the bone can be removed through the heel incision, the vertical cut being dispensed with altogether. Arthrodesis, or the artificial production of ankylosis in a flail joint, is sometimes practised on the ankle. It often enables a patient to walk with very little assistance, such as that provided by an artificial muscle, although pre- vious to the operation he was oV)liged to wear heavy, cumbersome instrumental support. A description of the operation will be found in the article "Deformities." An account of the amputations at the ankle- joint and neighbourhood will be found under "Amputations." Ankyloblepharon.—Adhesion of the eyelids to each other, complete or partial, acquired or antenatal. See Eyelids, Affec- tions of. AnkylOg^lOSSia. — Adhesion of the tongue to the floor of the mouth ; tongue-tie ; short frenum linguse. See Tongue {Malforma- tions). An ankylotome is an instrument for dividing the frenum. Ankylosis. See Joints, Diseases of; also Ankle-Joint, Diseases of, and Osteo- arthropathies. Ankylostomiasis. See Anchylosto- MiASis and Parasites {Strongylidoe). Annexa.—Appendages, e.f/. the uterine annexa (viz. the ovaries, Fallopian tubes, par- ovaria, etc.), the foetal annexa (viz. the chorion, amnion, placenta, etc.). See Generation, Fe- male Organs of ; Fcetus, Ovum and Decidua. Anodynes. See Analgesics. Ancestrum.—The resting time in the sexual cycle in animals during which the genital organs lie fallow ; each cycle consists of pro-oestrum ("coming into season"), oestrus (period of desire), metoestrum (waning of sexual activity), and ancestrum (as above). Anomalies.—The lesser degrees of tera- tological formation ; the minor monstrosities; anatomical irregularities. See Deformities ; Spina Bifida, etc. Anonychia.—Antenatal absence of the nails. See Nails, Affections of the. Anopheles.—A genus of mosquitoes instrumental in carrying the parasite of malaria from one patient to another. See Filariasis ; Malaria. AnophthalmuS.—Absence of one or both eyeballs, usually associated with mal- formations of the orbit. See Orbit, Diseases of the. Anopsia. — (l) Antenatal absence of eye- balls and orbits; (2) used incorrectly for An- oopsia or Strabismus, in which the eye deviates upwards {see Strabismus). Anorchism or Anorchidy.—Ante- natal absence of the testicles, real or apparent (displacement). See Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of the. Anorexia.—Absence, partial or complete, of appetite for food. See Appetite ; Hysteria ; Morphinomania and allied Drug Habits ; and Typhoid Fever. Anorexia Nervosa.—Neurotic dys- pepsia in neurasthenia. See Indigestion ; Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of.