BOILS AND CARBUNCLE 424 —the Staphylococcus pyogenes (aS'. aureus, alius, and citreus). Experimental evidence has been fiirnished by Garre, who at the same time de- moiistrated the absolute identity of the organisms concerned, in the production of boils and car- buncle. He rubbed vigorously into the hairy, but uninjiired, skin of his forearm a piu'e culture of Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus. Four days later a typical carbxnicle had developed in the centre of the inoculated spot, while the periphery was surrounded by a ring of boils of varying sizes. This shows the relation which exists between these two affections and the ducts of the glands, and explains at the same time the occurrence of auto-inoculation. Unna stands almost alone in believing that there is a distinct specific infection for carbuncle, but the re- searches of Garre, Bockliardt, and others would seem to be conclusive on this point. Symptoms.—A boil begins as a limited indura- tion of an extremely painful character, the over- lying skin being of a vivid red colour. It rapidly becomes acuminated on the surface, and a hair frequently, but not invariably, occupies the centre of the summit. Pain, always severe, varies with the resistance of the overlying tissues; the denser the surrounding structures, the Avorse the pain—as, for instance, in the perineum, nose, and external auditory meatus. The primary induration gradually widens, form- ing a definite tumour of varying size, until at the end of from three to six days a tiny pustule develops on the most prominent part, the skin gives way, and a minute quantity of pus is set free. Through this minute opening in the dusky undermined skin a mass of yellowish-grey necrotic tissue can be seen—the " core "—which separates in about a week, leaving a small granulating cavity. This gradually heals up as the subsidence of the inflammatory exudation allows its walls to collapse, and finally leaves a slightly depressed whitish scar. In some cases a boil aborts; the redness, induration, and swelling gradually disappear without suppura- tion, and the part slowly returns to its normal condition. This, which is often extremely pain- ful, is known as a " blind " boil. Whenever boils occur there is a great tendency towards the occurrence of auto-inoculation—i.e. the extension of the suppurative process to neigh- bouring follicles—and this may occur either as the result of subcutaneous extension fi'om one cellular interspace to another, or more generally by direct infection of the ducts which open on the surface. In this lies the explanation of the frequent phenomenon of multiple satellite boils developing in succession around a central prim- ary focus. Verneuil has described a special form of boil occurring in connection with the coiled portions of the sweat-glands. This is re- ferred to imder "Axilla," where it frequently occurs, and the condition has been named " hydradenitis destruens suppurativa." Treatment.—In the earliest stage, and when a boil is small in size, as in the case of a stye, a cure may often be efl:ected by pulling out the central hair, if present, and touching the spot with nitrate of silver or strong carbolic acid ; or if no hair be found, a drop of the latter may be injected into the base of the tumour. Unna strongly recommends the use of a carbol-mer- curic plaster-mull, as tending in the early stages to procure abortion, or, in the event of suppura- tion, to markedly limit its extent and relieve pain. Compresses of glycerine and belladonna, or of saturated solution of camphor in spirit, are also recommended ; but in the vast majority of cases early linear incision with a sterilised knife, even before there is distinct evidence of pus-formation, gives the most immediate relief to the pain, and, by reducing tension, limits in a marked degree the extent of tissue necrosis. If the pus has already found vent, the opening should l)e enlarged, the slough removed, and th^cavity lightly packed with antiseptic gauze. Over this hot boric fomentations shoidd be con- tinuously kept. In every case the area sur- roimding the boil should be well protected by an ointment of salicylic acid and benzoated lard (gr. 30 ad ^j.), which helps to prevent auto- inoculation with its unpleasant successive crops of boils. When multiple boils appear simul- taneously in different regions of the body—a condition described as furunculosis — attention must be directed mainly to the patient's hygienic surroundings, and improvement effected in his constitutional state by the judicious use of saline purgatives, by the administration of light, easily assimilable food at frequent intervals, by the exhibition of tonics, and, most important of all, by change to a more invigorating and bracing climate. Specific remedies such as yeast and calcium sulphide are, in the writer's opinion, absolutely worthless. Carbuncle It will be obvious, from what has been stated above regarding the pathology, that the dift'er- ence between a boil and a carbuncle is only one of degree ; depends, in fact, on the larger amount of specific infection introduced and the wider area of the subcutaneous tissue which is conse- quently involved. Hence it is attended with greater local destruction of parts and with much graver constitutional disturbance. As a rule, carbuncle attacks persons more advanced in life ; those especially in whom the power of general and local resistance is diminished, or in whom the constitutional condition has been lowered either by precedent disease or by unfavourable environ- ment. Its seats of predilection are, in order of frequency, the nape of the neck, the shoulders, face, abdominal wall, and, rarely, the extremi- ties. The most dangerous situations are the scalp and the face, because the greater vascu- larity of these parts largely increases the dangers