222 ANTIPYRETICS AND ANTIPYRETIC MEASURES ganglia, or upon their peripheral nervous com- munications (cf. Schema). Scheme to illustrate the Central Heat- Regulating Mechanism. Adapted from Hale White. Centres—T.T., Thenuofcaxic ; T.G., Thermogenetic ; T.L., Thermo- lytic ; T.C., Tiophic ; C.C., Circulatory; V.C., Vaso-motor; R.C., Respiratory. The muscles both of voluntary and of in- voluntary movements and the glands are the chief sources of heat-production; the skin, the lungs, and the kidneys the most important agents in heat-dispersal. The measures adopted Ijy physicians to com- bat pyrexia may be directed towards a deci'ease in production, or an increase in loss of heat, or may induce both of these actions. The drugs which increase the loss of heat act chiefly by stimulating the sudorific mechanism ; others, as for instance belladonna, while diminishing sweat secretion, by dilating the blood-vessels of the skin, increase heat-loss by radiation. Cold baths, sponging, and the like, abstract warmth from the body. The thermogenetic centre is in- fluenced directly by a number of remedies, either alone or in conjunction with an accom- panying but not so marked action upon the thermolytic centre. The large class of the synthetic products, added to the antipyretic class through modern chemical research, act in this way. While there are imdoubtedly many advan- tages to be derived from the use of drugs which diminish fever through the medium of the official nervous regulating system, and while the results obtained from them have often been most valuable, they possess certain disadvan- tages in that, as they act especially upon the nerve-centres for heat regulation, they are apt to influence the normal activity of neighbouring- centres. Synthetic Antipyretics Classification of Antipyretic Remedies A. Decrease Heat-Production— 1. Action on Thermogenetic Centre (hypothetically). Phenazonum, Acetanilidum, and similar drugs. Alcohol (?), Chloral. 2. On Metabolism principally. Quinina, Acidum Salicylicum, Alcohol, essential oils. 3. Action unknown. Cold baths if prolonged. B. Increase Heat-Loss— 1. Sudorifics, Diuretics, Purgatives, and Alcohol. 2. Acting on Thermolytic Centre. Phenazonum, etc. (slightly), Anti- monium. 3. Physical Methods. Cold baths, sponging with water or alcohol, etc. Warm baths. Vene- section. 4. Through the circulation (probably) dilating vessels of skin. Antimonium, Chloral, Scilla, Alcohol. 5. Unknown. Aconitum, Digitalis, Vera- trina. C. Indirect Action— 1. Removing cause of irritation, physical or mental. Purgatives, sedatives, relief of tension, etc. 2. Specific action on causative poison. Quinina, Acidum Salicylicum. Phenazonum (Antipyrin), Acetanilidum (Anti- febrin), and Phenacetinum are the drugs of this series which are most commonly employed. They all depress the action of the heart, phcn- acetin the least of the three; if they are given in large doses the blood is affected, methajmo- globin being formed and ajipearing in the urine. Respiration is not altered ; the kidneys and skin are mildly stimulated; indeed erythema and urticaria are not uncommon results of their ad- ministration. The combination of cafFeina with the synthetic antipyretics is often found to be valuable. Caff'eina acts chiefly upon the cere- brum, but it also stimulates without slowing the heart, and raises the blood-pressure, but does not interfere with the antipyretic eff'ect of the drug given with it. The members of the aromatic group of anti- pyretics pi'obably act upon the heat-producing centre in the corpora striata. They have been said to owe their power to the property of readily forming substitution and addition products. The aromatic compounds resulting from nieta-