ALCOHOLISM 98 spring. Fatigue is imminent, the carriage is slack, the patient stoops and totters. Now also the impairment of sensation is very evident. Even extreme stimulations are not appreciated. By this time also the deeper and more vital functions are involved. The pulse is soft and irritable and precarious, the extremities cold, ?)Ometimes cyanotic, respiration shallow, intes- tinal peristalsis feeble ; and the organic and deep reflexes are impaired, so that one finds irregular reactions in the pupils, the palate, the knee- jerks, and the skin reflexes, and veiy often the patient has much difficulty in swallowing and may have incontinence of urine and of fteces. So great a reduction generally implies a cessation of drinking, and the end usually comes by intermittent disease. But if any one were brutal enough to pour alcohol into such a dement the last stages of the dissolution might be reached. As a matter of fact the last possi- bility of mental reduction seems to be reached in cases which actually do occur. Without accessoi'y disease, however, patients do not, except very rarely, arrive at the penultimate stage when, with great trophic impairment, there is general motor and sensory paralysis. At the last the alcoholised patient, mindless, motionless, senseless, would cease from even vital activities by an atrophic dissolution of the mechanisms of respiration, in which other essential centres would also be involved. Variations of Alcoholism.—A Typical Al- coholism, as above described, cannot be said to occur. There are, in every case, great departures from the type of a general consecutive paralysis. These variations constitute, as in intoxication, two kinds of anomalous disorder. One is a dis- jiroportionate local paralysis—a dissolution of a function or group of functions which is in advance of the general dissolution. The other is a disorder of excess—a survival of activity in a function or group of functions which is out of keeping with the general dissolution. It would be unsatisfactory, however, to arrange the anomalies of alcoholism imder these two head- ings, and tedious to refer repeatedly to them. I therefore leave the reader to decide, as regards each symptom mentioned, whether it falls into one class, or into the other. An illustration of each will suffice. iVphasia which is pronounced, which occurs in a patient whose general memory is fairly good, who can read and write words readily, etc., though he cannot speak them — such an aphasia is a disproportionate and anomalous dissolution. On the other hand, a patient may have a very disordered general memory; he may be very stupid, he may have epileptic fits, tremors in his limbs and face, incontinence of urine, etc., and yet he may gabble almost constantly, and with only a very slight defect of articulation—such an excess of conversation is a disproportionate or anomalous survival of function. I have already alluded to the arrangement here followed. Some of the symptoms now to be alluded to may occur in such a degree as to characterise the alcoholism so that one would almost be justified in giving a special name to one or two of these variations. Most of them, however, occur along with a great general dis- solution, and are conspicuous only for a short time. Most of them occur at one stage or another in nearly every case which is not inter- rupted. It is only when they persist anoma- lously, or when they occur prematurely, that we are justified in speaking of them as variations. We may take it, then, that these are the symp- toms frequently observed in alcoholism. But the disease is so manifold and so general that it is impossible to enumerate all the facts ; and accordingly I select what seem to be the most important. Psychical Variations in Alcoholism.—The most important psychical anomalies are discussed in other articles (see " Alcoholic Insanity," " Mania a Potu," " Delirium Tremens," " In- sanity," " Dipsomania"). In the article " Alcoholic Insanity " the psychical facts are dis- cussed at some length. Any of the symptoms there alluded to may occur in some dispropor- tion, though perhaps not to such a degree as will brand the case as one of the characteristic insane types. Motor Variations in Alcoholism.—Tremors and spasms are the most usual motor anomalies in alcoholism. They both occur most commonly in the most voluntary muscles—voice, tongue, lips, face, liand—but they may be general, or they may very rarely be most marked in the muscles of the lower limbs. As a rule they are aggravated by attention, as in Chorea and in Delirium Tremens. The tremors are to be dis- tinguished, as a matter of scientific insight, from the spasms ; but in practice even author- ities describe muscular states without any such distinction. In the tongue, for example, one may observe a fibrillar agitation which is really a fibrillar spasm ; a fascicular contraction which gives the vermicular appearance (as if a worm were wriggling in the muscle suVjstance); a choreiform jerking of the tongue out or in, or to one or other side ; or a cramp, a tonic spasm, of one or other of the groups of fibres, in or below the tongue. But there may be tremors also with or without the spasms, in the sense that there is a want of balance between opposing muscular fibres, so that the tongue shakes side- ways or to and fro. Similar phenomena are present in the hands. There may be spasm, fibrillar, fascicular, or in a muscle or group of muscles; or there may be a tremor of a small kind, or so great as, for instance, to upset a glass of water and restore it again to its upright position. In the jaw spasms are very common, and cramp in the muscles of the lower limbs is quite frequent; of all such excesses epilepsy is