303 ASPHYXIA Leroy, who devised a method of compressing the chest by traction on the crossed ends of a many-tailed bandage passed under it, alternately with relaxation of the pressure to secure inspira- tion. After this no step of importance was taken till the second half of this century, but since , that we have had a rapid succession of methods, ! which, even with the authors' names attached, is somewhat bewildering until we realise that they are mostly rearrangements or rediscoveries of a few fundamental manoeuvres whose principles were revealed to the earlier writers. In 1856 Marshall Hall published his " postural " treat- ment in drowning, and Silvester had already discovered his " physiological" method of raising the chest walls by pulling on the arm muscles, \ and in 1859 Schultze was using his method of "swinging" apparently still-born children, though he did not publish it for several years. Since that time many modifications or combina- tions of the elements of these methods have been published as new, but whether they are improvements or not, these new methods, with ; the exceptions of SchuUer's mode of grasping the edge of the ribs and Laborde's method of rhythmic traction on the tongue, contain nothing that is not contained in the earlier methods. In proof of the value of each meffiod of artificial respiration, clinical evidence rapidly accumulates, but for several reasons this is almost valueless, and leads to conclusions which are opinionative merely and not scientific. It is impossible to say beforehand that any given case of asphyxia will not recover spontaneously. Most cases of livid asphyxia, and some of pallid, recover with- out the least aid from the physician. As a rule, too, the physician is not in an entirely judicial frame of mind in dealing with a case of asphyxia, and if he is, the excitement of the bystanders is enough to disturb it; he often Fails to note the stage of the asphyxia—at least he usually fails to record it. In many cases the i-ecover^r is a long, slow process, during wdiich the patience of the operator is not proof against the temptation to try another method, and at the end of any series of such changes, the method last tried before recovery is the efficient one. We are therefore indebted to the methods of the physiological laboratory for a trustworthy criterion as to the relative efticiency of various manoeuvres for introducing air into the chest. The question has not been so often investigated on adults as on children, but the reports of the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Society on Suspended Animation, and that of Brosch, furnish much useful information, while the careful and exten- sive investigations of Champneys will serve as a type of the work that has been done on infants. In the matter of still-born children it is to be remembered that we start with the lungs in a completely airless condition, so that the problem is not entirely the same for them as it is for the adult. While the general opinion is that arti- ficial respiration is useful in children, we must modestly remember that Ahlfeld says, "All apparently still-born children, who are other- wise capable of surviving, need, besides the clearing of the air-passages, merely to be kept in warm water to come bit by bit to free breathing. Skin stimuli shorten the period of incomplete respiration." The manauivres of artificial respiration may be most easily understood when tabulated as follows:— Inspiratory — A. Inflation. 1. Mouth to moutii. 2. By catheter. B. Increasing the thoracic dimensions. 1. Raising the anterior wall. (a) By pulling up the rib margin (Schiiller). (6) By pulling on the pectoral muscles (Silvester, Forest), (c) By pulling on all the shoulder muscles (Bain, Pacini, Brosch). {(1) By the weight of the arms (Byrd). 2. Depression of the diaphragm, by throwing down the abdominal contents. (a) By their weight (Byrd, Dew, Schultze). (6) By movement (swinging) (Schultze). 3. Elastic recoil of thoracic wall after com- pression (Hall, Howard, Duke, Prochownik). Ejfpiratory— 1. Compression of the thorax.' {a) By the weight of the trunk (Hall). {b) By direct manual pressure (Howard, Duke, Pi'ochownik, Schiiller). (c) By indirect pressure through the patient's arms (Silvester, Brosch). {d) By resisting the trunk in movement (Schultze). (f) By flexion of the trunk (Byrd, Schro'der, Dew, Schultze, Forest). (/) By bandage passed round the chest (Leroy, Flashar). 2. Elastic recfiil of the thorax after distension (Bain, Pacini, Silvester). It is evident that manoeuvres involving flexion or swinging of the trunk are adapted to the child rather than the adult. The experimental examination of these methods has shown that the elastic recoil of the thorax after compression is not a very efficient method of securing in- spiration, and that the largest air introduction is secured by the modifications of the Silvester method. For the performance of this and of the other most useful methods, the detailed instructions are given in the following para- graph. ^ Brosch has shown that there is a risk of the contents of a full stomach, expressed ihiring the expiratory move- ment, being sucked into the trachea in the next inspiration. For this reason great pressure on the epigastrium sliould be avoided, and the head kept well back.