ANKLE-JOINT, REGION OF—INJURIES AND DISEASES 200 bone and may give way, the head of the astragalus then appearing in the wound. In the forward and inward variety, the astragalus will be found in front of or below the inner malleolus. Backward.—The astragalus is carried directly backward, or backward with deviation to either side. In some cases the astragalus is fractured, the posterior fragment only being displaced backward. The bone can be felt projecting between the tendo Achillis and the tibia, while its absence from its normal position can also be ascertained. Treatment.—Reduction often difficult in dis- locations of the astragalus and hardly possible except in the incomplete varieties. The patient is anaesthetised, the knee flexed, and traction made upon the foot, while suitable pressure is exercised on the displaced bone. When reduction is found to be impracticable, removal of the astragalus is the best treatment. This is also the proper course to pursue when the dislocation is compound. SUB-ASTRAGALOID DISLOCATIONS OF THE FoOT. —In these dislocations, the astragalus remains in its normal position, while the scaphoid and OS calcis, taking with them the rest of the foot, are displaced from it. The displacement may take place in several directions, backward, for- ward, outivard, or inward and hackimrd. Fracture of the astragalus or of the external or internal malleolus sometimes met with as a complication. The interosseous ligament between the astragalus and os calcis will be ruptured. There is also more or less laceration of the astragalo-scaphoid ligament and the lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. Nearly half of these injuries are compound, and most of them are incomplete so far as the calcaneo- astragaloid joint is concerned. The most common variety is that in which the foot is displaced laterally, either inwards or outwards, and also carried backwards. In the backward displacement the heel is lengthened and the front of the foot shortened. An important point of distinction between this accident and dislocation backward of the ankle is to be found in the relation of the tibia and fibula to the scaphoid and cuboid bones. In the sub-astragaloid dislocation of the foot, the rounded and prominent head of the astragalus will be found lying between them. A certain amount of passive flexion and extension of the ankle-joint may still be possible. Sub-astragaloid dislocation of the foot for- wards is a very rare accident. In it the pro- jection of the heel is lost, while the length of the dorsum of the foot is increased. The rounded head of the astragalus can be made out, and is in its normal position, and in front of it there is a depression. Some amount of passive movement possible is in the ankle-joint. Sub-astragaloid luxation of the foot imvard is generally associated with some amount of back- ward displacement. The distance between the heel and the malleoli is increased, and that between the inner malleolus and the scaphoid is diminished. The outer ankle is unduly prom- inent, the inner lost in a deep depression, the foot is twisted and presents the appearance of talipes varus. When the foot is luxated backwards and out- wards, the foot is everted, the inner ankle is prominent, and the outer biu-ied in a depression. The foot assumes the position of talipes equino- valgus. Reduction by traction and manipulation, the patient being anajsthetised and the knee flexed. In a case recently -under observation of back- ward and inward sub-astragaloid luxation of the foot, reduction was easily accomplished by draw- ing the heel forward and abducting the foot. When the dislocation is compound, the con- dition of the soft parts may render amputation necessary or possibly removal of the astragalus alone may be sufficient. Fractures of the Os Calcis may result from a fall upon the feet or from inordinate contraction of the muscles acting through the tendo Achillis. When due to muscular action the posterior part of the bone is separated and displaced upwards. Means must be taken to retain the fragments in apposition, which can usually be done by flexing the knee, extend- ing the foot, and immobilising the parts. The limb should not be used for a month, and then only with great care. Sometimes the bone is broken into many fragments, the fracture also implicating neigh- bouring bones. When it is simple a good result is generally obtained. If there is a wound and it is allowed to get septic, more or less necrosis is almost certain to follow. The treatment must be conducted on ordinary lines. Rupture of the Tendo Achillis.—This is produced by a sudden violent muscular con- traction, such as occurs when a person makes a supreme eilbrt to prevent himself from falling. The accident is attended by a sharp pain, which gives the patient an idea that he has been struck on the part. A distinct gap will be found at the point of rupture, which is usually about an inch and a half above the insertion of the tendon into the os calcis. Means must be taken to keep the torn ends of the tendon as near together as possible. This can be done by flexing the knee and extending the foot, this position of the limb being maintained by passing a cord through the heel of a slipper and securing it to a leather collar placed round the thigh. Provided absolute asepsis can be secured, the ends of the tendon should be sutured with chromised catgut. A more satisfactory result may be obtained in a shorter time by following this treatment.