384 BLADDER, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF and often become encrusted with deposits of phosphates from the urine, which, under these circumstances, is usually alkaline ; distinct cal- culi sometimes form, causing considerable irrita- tion, and occasionally requiring removal. To prevent this complication arising, it is recom- mended to destroy the hair-bulbs by electrolysis or by caustics previous to operation. 2. Closing in the bladder by suturing together the margins of the mucous membrane. Flaps of mucous membrane are dissected iip from either side, from without inwards, i.e. from their line of junction with the skin, then turned inwards and united by sutures in the middle line. To allow of their approximation, and at the same time to bring together the separated pubic bones, the sacro-iliac synchondrosis should previously have been divided on either side (Trendelenburg). Another method is to cover in the closed bladder by two marginal flaps consisting of skin only (Milton, Anderson); or, also including the recti muscles and a portion of the pubic crest from either side (Mikulicz), tension being relieved by two lateral incisions carried more externally. 3. Converting the mucous membrane into a cutaneous surface, or one consisting of cicatricial tissue. This method, which is effected by dis- secting off the mucous membrane, and after- wards skin-grafting, or by destroying it with caustic, is liable to be followed by troublesome contraction of the orifices of the ureters. To prevent this complication, the mucous membrane may be freely separated round the orifices of the ureters, which are attached to the root of the penis (Sonnenburg). 4. Diverting the stream of m'ine from the open bladder: (a) by establishing a fistulous communication between both ureters and the rectum or colon; (6) by attaching one ureter to an opening in the loin, and removing the opposite kidney, so as to avoid the inconvenience of a double fistula in the lumbar region (R. Harrison). The former method is attended by the risk of septic inflammation—from the de- composition of the nrine mixing with fteces, and being retained in a closed cavity—spreading up along the ureter to the kidney. In the latter there is the tendency to contraction of the orifice of the ureter in the loin, as well as the inconvenience of a fistulous opening in this situation; moreover, the operation of removal of one kidney is in itself always a serious procedure. 5. Forming a communication between the bladder and the colon (cystocolostomy). The mucous surface of the bladder is freely separ- ated, and its margins are then attached by svitures to the margins of an opening in the sigmoid flexure of the colon, the result being that the urine then passes entirely by the bowel (Tuffier). The results of the different operations are not in many cases very satisfactory, for even when the exposed mucous membrane is successfully covered in by flaps of skin, it is generally neces- sary for the patient to wear an apparatus to collect the urine, which still escapes, owing to the absence of a sphincter muscle at the neck of the cavity which represents the bladder. Malpositions.—Hernia or Cystocele.—A pro- trusion of the bladder may take place in the median line above the pubes, when the abdo- minal wall is weakened from any cause, as for example after laparotomy. In females who have borne children it not uncommonly pro- trudes into the vagina, owing to yielding of the anterior wall of the passage, sometimes project- ing beyond the vulva {vide " Vaginal Cysto- cele "). In rare cases the bladder may form part of the contents of an inguinal or femoral hernia, and instances are recorded where it has protruded through the obturator or ischiatic foramina. Unless of large size the protruding portion of the bladder is generally uncovered by peritoneum. The diagnosis of an inguinal or femoral cystocele is always a difficult matter, and the condition is often not recognised until the bladder is exposed—and sometimes accident- ally opened—in an operation for the relief of symptoms believed to be those of an ordinary strangulated hernia. On inquiry it will, how- ever, generally be found that there were, in addition to the usual symptoms, pain, referred especially to the neck of the bladder, with increased frequency in micturition, and perhaps small quantities of blood in the urine. Treatment.—When the protrusion occurs in the median line, a well-fitting abdominal belt should be worn. In the inguinal and femoral varieties a truss should be applied, or an attempt may be made to close the opening, after the protrusion has been reduced, by an operation somewhat similar to that performed for the radical cure of hernia. Inversion of the bladder is the terui applied to a condition rarely met with in female chil- dren, in which, as the result of straining during micturition, a prolapse of the bladder takes place through the urethra in the form of a red vascular mass, or pyriform tumour, which may project beyond the labia. The protrusion in- volves the entire thickness of the vesical wall, and must therefore be distinguished from a prolapse of relaxed mucovis membrane into or through the urethra, a condition which is not very uncommon in women. To produce con- traction of the dilated urethra and neck of the bladder, the interior of the canal should be cauterised after the prolapse has been reduced. Injuries Rupture of the Bladder is most likely to occur when the viscus is distended with urine, for if empty it lies under cover of, and is pro- tected by, the pelvic bones. It may be produced