ASEPTIC TREATMENT OF WOUNDS 294 scrotum, and scalp is exceedingly difficult. I cannot ascertain that the last has ever yet been disinfected. The process of disinfecting the patient's skin is almost exactly the same as that which is used for the hands of the surgeon and his assistants; but as the difficulties are greater, rather more elaborate precautions are necessary. First, the hair is shaved over the whole area of the field of operation, or over that which is covered by the dressing. Some- times the shaving is done in such a perfunctoiy manner that half the pubic hair is left, although an operation is about to be done for the cure of hernia or of varicocele. Second, as much as possible of the sebaceous material and epidermal scales are thoi-oughly removed by energetic scrubbing with hot water and soap. Third, the remaining fat is extracted with turpentine; a variety of other chemicals may be used for this purpose. Ether, alcohol, solutions of soap in alcohol, and benzine have been used and given good results. After the extraction of the fat the skin is disinfected with strong solutions of sublimate (1 in 500), of carbolic acid (1 in 20), or of both together, of formalin (1 per cent solution— Landerer and Kramer), or of chemicals in spiritous solutions. My best results have been obtained with the 1 in 500 solution of biniodide of mercury, which is used for disinfecting the hands. This has to be soaked in for not less than two minutes by the clock. In hospital practice the patient's skin is usually disinfected several hours before the operation. It is there- fore necessary to protect it with an efficient antiseptic dressing. Further, the precaution is taken to repeat the disinfection with spirit and biniodide of mercury before proceeding with the operation. Such rigorous methods of disinfection cannot be used for parts lined with mucous mevihrane. Before operations upon the rectum the risks of sepsis are diminished by emptying the bowel with copious enemata, and washing away mucus or discharge with solutions of boric acid. Stronger antiseptics are used just before the operation {e.g. 1 in 2000 biniodide of mer- cury lotion). Sometimes a preliminary inguinal colotomy may be required. Before vaginal operations the external genitals and perineum are thoroughly scrubbed and cleansed with soap and water. The vagina is cleansed with soap and water, with the help of absorbent wool (Robb), and disinfected by abundant douching with an antiseptic, such a« warm biniodide of mercury lotion, 1 in 2000. Before jjerforming urethral operations I have of late endeavoured to douche the urethra with large quantities of 1 in 2000 biniodide of mercury lotion. Should the urine be septic, the bladder is washed out with dilute solutions of nitrate of silver (1 gr. in 1 oz.). The conjunctiva can only bear the gentlest treatment. M'Gillivray recommends that the palpebral aperture and tarsal folds should be irrigated with sterilised salt solution at a temperature of 90° F. Disinfection of sponges. —• Although marine sponges possess undoubted advantages, some surgeons have discarded them because they are difficult to disinfect. Their place is taken by swabs of cotton-wool wrapped in gauze and sterilised in the autoclave. The asepticity of these is undoubted, but they do not clean a wound of blood so rapidly as sponges; also, wool is apt to be left in the wound should it contain rough surfaces of bone. In abdominal operations swabs of wool require minute super- vision to prevent any being lost. However, the following method of disinfecting sponges gives perfect results, when carried out by an intelli- gent and conscientious person. If the sponges be new, (1) the sand is shaken and beaten out. (2) Shell and coral are dissolved by soaking for twenty-four hours in a solution of sulphuric or hydrochloric acid (1 drachm of strong acid to 1 pint of water); the mixture requires to be made with extreme care to avoid accidents. (3) The acid is removed as far as possible by squeezing in warm water, and the sponges are then soaked for half an hour to an hour in a warm solution of washing-soda (5j. to 1 pint of water). This removes fat and albumen. The process may require to be repeated several times. (4) The soda solution is washed out with warm sterilised water, and the sponges immersed in cold solu- tion of sulphurous acid (1 in 5) for twelve hours, for a final bleaching and sterilisation. Sponges prepared by this method were sterile forty times out of forty-one. The contamina- tion probably came from the air. Disinfection of utensils and instruments.— Heat is the simplest and most reliable method of disinfecting the utensils, instruments, and materials required for an operation. Dry heat is hardly practicable. To disinfect glass test- tubes and culture dishes, a temperature of 180° C. is required, and has to be maintained for not less than thirty minutes. At this temperature the vessels become red-hot, and most instruments would be ruined. The per- fect reliability of moist heat in the form of steam or boiling water has now been abundantly proved by the work of Koch, Klein, Parsons, Delepine, Reid, and of many other workers. But the action of steam cannot be relied upon unless it is applied for some hours or used under pressure. Steam at a pressure of 10 lbs. kills the most resistant spores in thirty minutes. A special apparatus is required, and at St. Bartholomew's Hospital the utensils, wool, gloves, and towels are disinfected in a steam autoclave of the Lantenschldger pattern. The towels were sterile in thirty-eight tests out of forty. One of the infected towels contained hay bacillus, and the other an unascertained