90 ALCOHOL phylactic against depression, though much less urgently since the introduction of the treatment by antitoxin. In acute tuberculosis and in tuberculous meningitis we cannot dispense with its help as a fuel and as a nervine stimulant. (3) In acute digestive crises, in gastro-enteritis, and in other severe aflections it may be indis- pensable as a restorative and as a temporary supporting diet to tide over a dangerous period. In tlic virtual starvation of chronic dyspepsia, of enteritis and of rickets among the poor, its help is invaluable, and its timely employment is often the only means of rendering alimentation possible. When digestion is restored, alcohol ceases to be beneficial. (4) Lastly, it is a valuable dietetic adjunct, even more than a medicine, in profuse suppura- tion, in anaemia, and in the chronic wasting diseases, such as phthisis, abdominal tuber- culosis, and marasmus. In most of these con- ditions red wine is indicated and usiially well borne, whilst brandy is more suitable to the acute conditions and in complete breakdown of the digestion. The Indications in Diseases of Adults.—In prostrating fevers, when digestion is at a stand- still, alcohol is almost the ideal substitute for food, as it needs no digestion and is readily absorbed, largely restraining tissue combustion and a dangerous excess of waste products. In severe pyrexia with delirium considerable quan- tities of alcohol, which in health would produce stupor, are tolerated, and seem to relieve rather than to oppress the nerve centres. Much of the alcohol may perhaps be burnt off befoi'e reaching them, or possibly their nutritional requirement may be considerably raised or their susceptibility to poisons greatly diminished. At any rate, alcohol is thus rendered available as a substantial nutritive supply. The sedative action is dis- played in the subsidence of the delirium, and in the lowering of the temperature and of the rate of pulse and respiration. Brandy is the best form of alcohol in these cases, and should be given in small and frequent doses. In the continued fevers also, and particularly in typhoid, critical emergencies may arise, but, as a rule, digestion is not permanently disabled, and alcohol is neither needed nor desirable as a food. The less of it given the greater the likeli- hood that appetite may revive for the needful flesh-forming supplies. In uncomplicated typhoid the writer has long given up its use during the pyrexial period, reserving the administration of wine as a dietetic for convalescence. Often when large quantities are prescribed there is a danger lest, under the veil of delirium, the " typhoid " condition due to the disease may pass almost imperceptibly into an alcoholic toxaemia, which may prove fatal if not recog- nised—a possibility which calls for the utmost vigilance on the part of the physician. In pneumonia free stimulation is the almost universal practice in this country, but the | absolute failure of alcohol to save life in the ' worst cases does not warrant any high estimate ! of its therapeutic value, though it is undoubtedly of use as a restorative and as a food. But it ] might become a danger were it to disguise from us the often subtle indications for more rational and life-saving remedies. In acute bronchitis and in severe asthma con- siderable stimulation may be needed, but the | effects of alcohol must be carefully watched, lest it should aggravate the symptoms of carbonic acid poisoning. In heart disease the uses of alcohol are indi- cated by the hygienic principles which now govern cardiac therapeutics. If recovery, not j euthanasia, is the object of our efforts, over- ] stimulation is, above all others, the danger to be I guarded against. A weak heart needs to be rested, fed, and worked, but not alternately overworked and depressed. Alcohol has its value as a tonic and as a dietetic, but to serve these purposes its allowance must be moder- \ ate, and its administration opportunely timed. j Oppressive doses of alcohol probably often turn ] the balance against recovery in advanced cardiac [ affections. j Diseases of the Nervous System. — In its | strongest line of action, that of a nerve sedative i and of a narcotic, alcohol is surpassed by other , drugs, and it is not resorted to in the worst i cases. Neither can it be recommended for its relatively slight antipyretic action. In the treatment of the organic affections of the nervous system alcohol has no place, and in the severe functional disorders of the brain, often partly based upon its abuse, it is useless as a medicine, though sometimes beneficial as a dietetic agent. But during the acute stage of delirium tremens there is less objection to stimulants if they can tempt the patient to take food or remedies. Among the functional disorders the neuralgia) are often relieved for a while ; but in the worst forms, such as tic douloureux and severe gas- j tralgia, no relief is obtained, and the sufferers | are seldom tempted to exceed. The danger of | the alcoholic habit is greatest in those minor ] neuralgife and neuroses where alcohol is resorted to for the .sake of its temporary stimulation even more than for the relief of pain. It is an invari- . able rule not to prescribe it in such cases, and I to discourage its use. Renal Diseases.—In acute nephritis alcohol is detrimental. In the chronic forms, including lardaceous disease, it probably does less harm than is generally supposed, and a tonic wine is indicated for the anaemia of chronic Bright's j disease. ! Acute cutaneous diseases are made worse by • alcohol, but in chronic atrophic, scrofulous, and i degenerative affections every means, including | alcohol, must be utilised to raise the general j nutrition. i 1