95 ALCOHOLIC INSANITY Treatment. — Similarly, the treatment of alcoholic insanity is simply the treatment of insanity plus the treatment of alcoholism. But it seems advisable to repeat our reference to the impulsiveness of alcoholic insanities, and to suggest that, having regard to it, no time should he lost in removing the patient to a place of safety, and that, meanwhile, supervision sliould lie effective and absolutely complete. Alcoholism. Definition ...... 95 Inception—Drunkenness . . . 95 Intoxication . . . .95 Incidents or Interhuptions . . .96 Acute Alcoholism {Alcoholic Poison in;/, Alcoholic Coma) . . . .96 Mania a Potu {Imniediatc Maniacal Alcoholism) . . . . .97 Alcoholic Insanity (Insane Alcoholism) 97 Delirium Tremens (BelirioKs Alcoholis/n) 97 Chronic Alcoholism . . .97 Variations ...... 98 Psychical . . . . . .98 Motor 98 Sensory ...... 99 Visceral, VASo-MtnoR, and Trophic . 99 Complications . . . . . .100 Pathology . . . . . .100 Treatment . . . . . .102 Social . . . . . . .102 Personal—General .... 102 Particular . . . 103 Etiology . . . . . . .104 See also Athetosis ; Brain, Afpections of Blood-Vessels ; Bronchitis ; Climacteric In- sanity ; General Paralysis ; Lunacy ; Lungs, Gangrene of ; Nerves, Neuritis ; Pulse {Frequency of); etc. Definition.—Alcoholism is a disease of the nervous system due to alcoholic excess. It is essentially and always a disease which attacks the central nervous mechanisms, and, in its normal course, it is a dissolution or progressive reduction of function. Tlie highest, that is, tlie most voluntary, cerebral functions suffer first, and are most deeply impaired. But there are, in most cases, impairments of motion and of sensation, and derangements of the trophic function of nerves; and in some cases tlaere are affections of the pei'ipheral nerves and ganglia, and visceral complications. These low - level impairments, however, arc always secondary to the highest central disorder. That disorder is manifest in a ])urposive (volitional) defect, which relates in particular to the appetite for alcoholic indulgence, liut which becomes manifest also in relation to conduct in general. A proper account of alcoholism is tlierefore a description of the appearance of a defect of will in relation to alcohol, and later, of various developments which are common to the disease in one or other of its stages. Its earliest stage is popularly known as drunkenness. Drunkenness.—Drunkenness develops in an individual in this country along fairly constant lines. There is no hard and fast distinction Iwtw ecu drunkenness which is vice, and drunken- ness which is disease, or, as physicians might express it, between physiological and patho- logical alcoholism. There are many who hold that alcoholism is never physiological but always unhealthy ; and in their view all drinking means some degree of disease. But we must come to a clear understanding of when a patient has arrived at that stage to which the term " alco- holism " in its technical sense can be fairly applied. The general practitioner will often be called upon to say whether his patient really is suffering from alcoholic disease, and he must have a constant criterion which can be under- stood of all, and which is easy of application to every case. To that end it is neeclful to con- ceive of alcoluilism always as an affection which primarily involves the will. The fact that the man or woman has become a " patient," that a physician's opinion has been sought, entitles the practitioner to form a judgment concerning the drunkard's habit, even although the patient comjjlains only of some remote symptom such as neuralgia or alcoholic morning sickness. If such a j^atient can resist alcohol and refuse it, he does not suffer from alcoholism in the medical sense. If he cannot abstain for such time as the physician prescribes, he docs suffer from alcoholism. That merely corroborates, with a scientific implication, the popular verdict that a person is a drunkard when he cannot remain sobei'. The vulgar criterion of sobriety, however, is not sufficient for our purpose, be- cause many patients suffer from alcoholism who have not been often what is generally recognised as " drunk." To understand such a develop- ment we must consider somewhat fully the stage which we may call the Inception of Alcoholism —the facts of the development of the alcoholic vice on its way to becoming a disease. Intoxication.—-Intoxication in the popular sense is quite often an abnormal effect of alcohol. As physicians we must recognise as intoxication a state which often escapes the attention of the uninitiated. After the first stage of general exliilaration the normal effect of alcohol upon the nervous sj'stem is in the nature of an obliteration of the functions which constitute self-direction, and which imply a full conscious- ness. By degrees the person becomes less aware of everything—of his surroundings and of him- self, tie may realise this as a drowsiness which is creeping over him, and he may abstain. If he confiinues to drink he will become comatose, or if he has drunk a gi'cat deal before he falls asleep. So regular and gradual a narcosis is most apt to occur in persons of very stable