BRAIN, TUMOURS OF 493 anaesthesia in the distribution of one or all of its branches may be forthcoming, prior to which, however, there may be hyperajsthesia, or spon- taneous neuralgic pains of similar distribution. Sight.—Phenomena indicative of irritation of the optic nerves, such as flashes of light and the the like, are exceedingly rare, except when they result from irritation of the half-vision centre in the occipital lobe, when they constitue the aurse of convulsive seizures, and are usually referred to the visual field on the opposite side to that of the tumour. From what has been said when optic neuritis was under discussion, it is clear tliat loss of sight is an important and common .symptom of intracranial tiunour. This defect may, however, result, without optic neuritis, from direct implication of some part of the optic path by the tumour. Instead of a general defect of vision there may be only loss in some parts of the fields constituting one or other of the varieties of hemianopsia, the most common of which is bilateral homonymous hemianopsia, which indicates either involvement of one optic tract, the fibres of the optic radiation in their passage to the half-vision centre in the occipital lobe, or the centre itself. It occasionally happens that a tumour presses on the middle of the optic chiasma, in which case bilateral temporal hemianopsia results. Thus while blindness the result of optic neuritis is of no localising value, it is otherwise when this loss is unattended with neuritis. Smell. — Anosmia may be a symptom of an intracranial tumour in any situation, but is comparatively rarely met with. Considering the proximity of the olfactory bulbs to the frontal lobes, it is singular how seldom loss of smell is a symptom of tumours of this part of the brain; ncA^ertheless anosmia does occur in some cases, and if unilateral, is in favour of the tumour being on the side on which the loss of smell is detected. Anosmia also occurs in con- nection with cerebellar tumours, though not as frequently as was at one time supposed. The mechanism by which it was induced when a tumour is situated so far back is obscure, unless it be due to neuritis of the olfactory nerves comparable to that which affects the optic nerves. Taste is rarely affected, though, as has been said, loss of taste may be a symptom when the fifth nerve is destroyed. Hearing.—Subjective sensations indicative of irritation may arise from interference with the auditory nerve by tumours of the pom or base, in which case the sensations are referred to the ear on the same side, or they may be induced by growths in the temporo-sphenoi.dal lobe, in which case they are referred to the ear of the opposite side, and may constitute the aura of an epileptiform attack. Deafness results from dam- age to the auditory nerve by tumours at the base of the brain, and also by those which destroy the nucleus of the nerve in the pons. Bilateral deafness is said to have been produced by tumours of the corpora quadrigemina involving the tegmentum. A variable degree of deafness, usually slight, sometimes considerable, is the outcome of the general impairment of brain function consequent on the increase of intra- cranial pressure; Imt unilateral defect of hear- ing, which, however, never amounts to complete deafness, may occur in the opposite ear when a tumour destroys the auditory centre in the first temporo-sphenoidal convolution, whereas when the hinder part of this convolution and the adjacent part of the second are aff'ected, the variety of aphasia spoken of as word-deafness may result. Reflexes.—The state of the plantar reflex and of the tendon jerks largely depends on whether the tumour is so situated as to interfere with the motor path or not. With such interference the plantar response is one of extension of toes instead of flexion, which is the normal response, and the tendon jerks are exaggerated. The greatest jDOssilile variations, however, occur in connection with the knee jerks, for even in the presence of hemplegia they may be lost, and without such paralysis, exaggerated, diminished, or abolished knee jerks are met with, in addi- tion to which they maybe variable, disappearing and reappearing, it may be more than once, in the course of the case. It was at one time supposed that loss or vacillation of the knee jerk is suggestive of cerebellar tumours ; but we are now aware that a tumour of the cerebrum, which is large, grows rapidly, or produces marked hydrocephalus, has a similar influence on the state of the knee jerks. The 2ndse may be unaltered, or it may be slower than normal, in some cases markedly so ; but irrespective of its previous behaviour, it may be much quickened as the end approaches, and may then also become irregidar. Respiration may be markedly aff'ected Ijy tumours in any situation, but especially by those in the neighliourhood of the medulla oblongata. Cheyne-Stolces' respiration may result, or what is by no means uncommon is a sudden cessation of respiration, which is the immediate cause of death in a considerable proportion of cases of cerebral tumour. Hiccough may be troublesome, but is not common. The temperature is usually normal, or it may be even subnormal, except where meningitis, pneumonia, bed-sores, or some such complication is responsible for its elevation ; but tumours of the medulla, pons, and basal ganglia are some- times attended ivith hyperpyrexia. General Nutrition.—vVlthough the patient's general nutrition may be good in the earlier stages of a cerebral tumour, there commonly results, sooner or later, a variable amount of emaciation, sometimes not more than is to be accounted for by vomiting, pain, want of sleep,