347 BALNEOLOGY baths are commonly described as varying in temperature from 80° to 105° F., bnt the division here made into thermal and subtherrnal (viz. above or below blood-heat) corresponds with an important practical distinction. Many so-called " thermal " baths like those of Schlan- genbad and Nauhcim are not really thermal in their effects, but antiphlogistic or cooling. At most of the European spas the duration of thermal baths, which are seldom above 105° F., varies from ten to thiity minutes. Perhaps the commonest error in spa practice is to misapjily baths above blood-heat. The debility that sometimes follows a course of such baths in delicate persons may not be easily overcome. This has given rise to the erroneous opinion that immersion baths cannot be safely taken by invalids many degrees above 100° F. In truth, far more depends on chmttion than on tem- perature. In the hottest thermal baths, such as those of New Zealand and Japan, the bather enters the water at 130° or 140° F., but immersion can be tolerated for such brief periods (in Kusatsu, three minutes only) that the later and enervating effects of heat are not developed. On the other hand, subthernial baths may be continued for two, three, or even six hours, and daily repeated, as at Leuk in Switzerland, with great advantage in appropriate cases, and with- out subsequent debility. At Kawanaka, in Japan, the bathers remain in the water, which is a little below blood-heat, for a month on end, with stones on their laps to prevent them from floating in sleep; and it is said that the caretaker, a hale old man of seventy, stays in the bath the entire winter. What has been described by the French as Fievre thermal, or " critical fever," is frequently met with under treatment by indifferent warm baths. After a certain number of baths have been taken, a certain languor or malaise is experienced, with muscular stiffness, and recru- descence of former symptoms, and occasionally some form of cutaneous eruption (the so-called poussee). These phenomena, to which great value was formerly attached as a critical and favourable event, are now regarded as indicating an excess of thermal treatment and necessitating its intermission. (a) Thermal indifferent baths have a limited, V)ut valuable, application in balnco-therapeutics. They produe a stimulation proi)ortional to the degree of heat, but, iniless of brief duration, followed by corresponding debility. The spa physician may well bear in mind the saying of Hippocrates : " A bath enfeebles every time that its heat exceeds that of the body immersed in it." Brief thermal or even hyperthcrmal baths may be used to stimulate the cold and dry skin, or inveterate eruptions; for inertia or torpor, cither of the nervous centres or of the circulation, for diminished sensation or feebleness of nniscular movement, and for some cln'onic painful dis- orders of the muscles, nerves, and joints. {b) Suhthermal baths have a very large place in spa treatment. They usually exert both sedative and stimulating influence. The heart's action is steadied and slowed (see previous section), sometimes as much as twenty beats per minute; peripheral nervous excitation is diminished, but a massive and equable tonic impression is pi'oduced. These baths ai'e there- fore valuable in conditions of irritability of the vascular and nervous systems, as well as in debility and motor weakness, in peripheral and incipient and reflex paralyses. They promote absorption of inflammatory exudations and con- gestions (in the peritoneum, joints, etc.); they allay disturbances of nutrition, moderate senile change (senectus ipsa morbus), and are much used in degenerative arthritis, in atonic gout and rheumatism, and in conditions of nervous ex- haustion and of convalescence. 2. Douche Baths.—All that has been stated with reference to the effects of heat, and to degrees of thermality, applies with equal force to the douche. Thermal, subtherrnal, and hypo- thermal douches have within certain limits the same therapeutic application as the correspond- ing immersion baths. The chief dift'erences between the two forms of treatment depend upon the posture of the body, upon hydrostatic pressure, which is a considerable factor in the immersion bath but absent from the douche, and upon the presence in the latter of the mechanical stimulation of impact. Moreover, the douche fm'nishes various modes of piu'ely local treatment. (a) The hypothermal (cool or cold) douche is employed either as a general tonic, or locally as a sedative in inflammatory or febrile conditions, and has been used by the French for chronic neuralgia. (b) The thermal douche is only applicable to general disorders or local conditions of an asthenic character. It is a powerful stimulant, arousing dormant nutritive processes. It is therefore valuable in chronic glandular engorge- ments, in congestion and inaction of the abdo- minal viscera, and in degenerative conditions of the joints ; also in nervous debility and torpor, in paralysis, with little or no structural change, and in some cases of antemia and inaction of the skin. In rheiniiatism and gout it should never be prescribed until the inflammatory stages have quite subsided. (c) The subthermal douche is a valued remedy for degenerative ("rheumatoid") arthritis, and for many other chronic joint affections. Con- siderable importance attaches to the degree of pressure used in the douche bath. A powerfid impact of water is no doubt beneficial in some cases as a general tonic, especially to the mus- cular system. It should, however, never be employed in a routine manner. The high-