AORTA (THORACIC), ANEURYSM AND DILATATION OF 226 the early stages. Not only does atheroma affect the aortic tissues in the degeneration period of life, but the products of the early inflammatory change almost from their inception are prone to degradation. No attempt has been made here to deal with the process of aneurysm formation in general. For instance, the aneurysm that results in arteries—especially the cerebral—from embolism and the acute small aneurysm that may be pro- duced in the aorta itself by micro-organisms in septic endocarditis cannot be included in this ■description. The writer has seen an aneurysm the size of a small nut produced by the latter process in the aorta close to the valves, and it is conceivable that, had the patient survived, this might have so enlarged as to give origin to the usual pressure symptoms and signs of ordinary aneurysm of the arch. The septic condition itself is, however, so inevitably fatal that no practical importance can attach to such a mode of origin of aneurysm. The process of clot-formation, no doubt, may be regarded as an attempt at cure on the part of nature, but in the case of all but the smallest aneurysms of the arch nothing more than the attempt can be discerned. Physical Signs. — Inspection. — Unless the aneurysm be small or situated in the posterior portion of the arch, or in the descending thor- acic aorta, it seldom happens that careful inspec- tion of the chest in a good light fails to reveal some degree of abnormal pulsation distinct from that of the heart. Facing the patient and looking towards the front of his chest it is pos- sible, however, to miss pulsation that is at once revealed by a side glance; and this may happen quite as easily in the case of large aneurysms as in that of those of moderate size. It is im- poi'tant, then, to look carefully across the front of the chest from the sides or downwards from over the patient's shoulders. Any local bulging there may be, should be carefully examined for pulsation, as it not rarely happens that a dis- tinct projection or tumour has been formed by the aneurysm, and such tumour pulsates and is expansile. When the pulsation of the heart in its ordinary situation can be identified, the pos- sibility of any visibly pulsating area being that of a displaced heart is disposed of. In " fibroid phthisis " of the left lung the heart, for instance, may be seen pulsating under the left clavicle, but then there is absence of pulsation from the normal cardiac area. Again, there are certain extremely rare conditions in which an effusion in the pleura or consolidation of lung on the left side may assume pulsation, no doubt derived from the adjoining heart, but the ordinary phy- sical signs of such pleural and lung states will be obvious to prevent a careful observer from mistaking such pulsation for aneurysm. Lastly, in aneurysm of the descending aorta situated behind the heart a widely diffused pulsation. apparently synchronous with the pulsation of the heart, may be observed over the whole cardiac area, and to some extent it may seem beyond it. Under the circumstances it may theoretically be svipposed that a double impulse would be observable, but if such there be, it is practically impossible of recognition. Moreover, a similar phenomenon may be met with in the case of a large new growth situated behind the heart, which seems to show that it is the pulsa- tion of the heart itself that is consjjicuous rather than that of the aneurysm. The visible pulsa- tion produced by simple enlargement and hyper- trophy of the heart retains more or less the physiological local impulses of the organ—the apex-beat and epigastric impulse—and when the right side of the heart is specially involved there may be visible impulse above the third cartilage on the left side, due to dilatation of the infundi- bulum of the right ventricle. But in the case of the heart being, as it were, thrust forward by pressure from behind, the whole organ seems to be projected forwards. It must be remembered that the heart in diastole is like a flaccid sac in comparison with its state in systole, which is that of a mass of rigid muscle. In systole the heart so asserts itself that surrounding parts must yield before it, and in the case of aneurysm or neoplasm encroaching upon its space from behind it still so behaves. Large aneurj'sms of the descending aorta may produce a pulsating area Ijehind to the left of the spinal column. Any asymmetry in the shape of the chest should be noted, for an aneurysm often compresses a mail! bronchus and so interferes with the play of the lung—generally the left—or it may induce pleural effusion or secondary consolidation of the limg with pm-ulent infiltration. This last result is more often seen in cases of solid growth within the chest. Exaggerated arterial pulsation in the neck (and elsewhere) is seen when the aortic valves leak, as a result of aneurysm involving the first part of the arch. A difference between the carotids is common without aortic incompetence, but in the presence of this lesion such difference is rendered very striking. Again, the superficial veins of the neck are often seen to stand out, motionless and knotted at the sites of the valves, when there is pressure of the aneurysm upon the sujjerior cava or innominate veins, offering a contrast to the same veins as they are seen to pulsate in ordinary heart cases. The obstruction in the large venous trunks produced by aneurysm of the arch in its transverse portion leads some- times to a remarkable appearance owing to the engorgement of the superficial veins of the front of the chest, arms, and head and neck. In the fii-st situation the enlarged and tortuous veins may resemble a black breast-plate, so thickly are they set. Finally the seats of venous engorgement tend to become cedematous. This