387 BLADDER, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF trite. If, however, this is iinpraeticable, and the patient is a male, perineal or suprapubic cystotomy must then be performed, and the same treatment will usually be required when the foreign body consists of part of the contents of a dermoid or hydatid cyst, etc. In the case of females, most foreign bodies can be removed through the dilated urethra. Diseases Inflammation op Cystitis.—This is usually met with as a chronic, much less frequently as an acute affection, and in the majority of cases is due to the introduction of micro-organisms from without. Their presence in the urine is not, however, necessarily accompanied by inflam- mation, for if the bladder is healthy and un- injured, and there is no obstruction to the escape of its contents, its walls may remain free from infection, and no formation of pus takes place, this condition being known as liacterinria. If, however, organisms are present iu the urine, and the mucous membrane of the bladder becomes injured or irritated in any way, or if there is some cause of obstruction, and retention of urine results, then bacterial infection of the vesical walls occurs, and pus forms, the condition being then termed suppura- tive cystitis. In cases where the vesical infection is superficial and slight, and the urine, though containing bacteria, remains almost free from |)us, the condition is sometimes described as catarrhal cystitis, and may be regarded as a stage intermediate between bacteriuria and suppurative cystitis. Simph' cystitis is the term applied by some to a condition, which is regarded as a stage preliminary to that just described, where the inflammation is due to some mechanical or chemical irritant, e.g. a calculus, uric acid or oxalate of lime crystals, or the active principle of cantharides, etc., pre- sent in the urine. It differs from the preceding in the fact that the urine is free from both pus and micro-organisms, but it contains blood- corpuscles and numerous epithelial cells. Ex- amined with the cystoscope, the appearance presented is one of extreme congestion of the mucous membrane, very similar to that described under hwmorrhagic cystitis. The inflammation may subside at ihis stage, but often runs on to the suppurative form, pus and organisms then being found in the urine, and bacterial infection of the bladder-wall also taking place. Etiology.—As obstruction to the escape of the urine predisposes to cystitis, this explains why it so frequently complicates cases of urethral strictui-e and enlarged prostate, being especially liable to occur in the latter condition when a quantity of residual urine is habitually present in the iiladder. In cases of disease or injury of the spinal cord, in addition to trophic changes in the bladder from disordered innerva- tion, the loss of power in its muscular coat by favouring retention again acts in the same way. Any local cause of irritation, by causing con- gestion of the bladder, also acts as a predispos- ing cause, e.g. stone, tumours, foreign bodies, retained catheters, the introductian of any instrument, etc. The exciting cause of supjjurative cystitis is generally septic infection, from the introduction of micro-organisms, which may gain admission into the bladder either directly or indirectly. Direct Infection may take place in various WAYS, most commonly through the urethra, less frequently through the ureter, and rarely through a breach in the bladder-wall. Infection through the urethra is often caused by the passage of a sejjtic catheter; in cases where a sterilised catheter or somid is employed, it may be due to the instrument pushing on, or carrying with it, into the bladder, the organisms which are normally jDresent in the healthy urethra, and especially when it is in any way inflamed or affected with disease; e.g. in cases of stricture, organisms are commonly found in the recesses or dilatations in the walls of the urethra behind the constriction, so that even if the meatus and anterior part of the canal are disinfected, they are still liable to be carried on into the bladder by any instrument. In urethritis from any cause, whether gonorrlioeal or due to spread of septic inflammation from the glans penis, vulva, or vagina, etc., spontaneous infec- tion of the bladder may take place, independently of any instrumentation, from extension back- wards along the urethra. The same result, viz. infection through the urethra, may also occur without the existence of any urethritis, for in cases of incontinence, especially when due to overflow from distension, the organisms which are normally met with about the external genitals and anal regions, readily work their way upwards to the bladder in the stream of urine which is continually oozing from the orifice of the urethra. Infection through the ureters may happen when the kidneys themselves are the seat of septic disease, or in cases of general septicfemia, the bladder becoming infected by organisms, which reach it through the urine. This mode is some- times described as "renal," or "descending infection " of the bladder. Infection through a breach in the hlaclder-ivall, e.g. in cases of vesical fistula, abscesses opening into the bladder, penetrating wounds, etc., only rarely takes place. Indirect Infection of the Bladder through the blood-^'cssels, or more counuonly through the lymphatics, may occur in cases of septic disease involving the parts in its neighbourhood. There are also good grounds for believing that in some cases organisms {e.g. the bacillus coli) may be transmitted directly from the rectum to the liladder through the medium of the lymphatics. In this mode of indirect infection.