ACCOMMODATION 38 myopes much more myopic than they really are. They suffer from distressing asthenopic symp- toms, the spasm does not relax completely when at rest in the dark room, and the condition is often found to recur even after paralysing with atropin. The subjects of it are frequently of a neurotic disposition. The cause usually assignable is overwork, associated with some refractive error, and in one recorded case there was a slight injiiry of the cornea. It may be artificially produced by the instillation of eserin. Treatmetit.—Correction of the refractive error, together with a coiu'se of instillation of atropin, and cessation of all close work, should be advised, and the general health carefully attended to. Paralysis of Accommodation.—This may be partial or complete; it may affect one or both eyes; it may occur alone, or when associated with paralysis of the sphincter iridis, the con- dition is known as ophthalmoplegia interna. Or, again, it may be associated with paralysis of one or more of the external ocular muscles, usually those supplied by the third nerve. The symptoms are similar to those described previously in presbyopia, and the condition may be diagnosed by finding that the amplitude of accommodation does not correspond with the age. In myopia the condition gives rise as a rule to very little trouble, and is often over- looked. Causes.—The three most common causes are —atropin, diphtheria, and syphilis. It may be due to the instillation of atropin, or to one of the other mydriatics, or to large doses taken internally. It may also be due to ptomaine poisoning. In diphtheria it is seldom associated with paralysis of the sphincter iridis. Syphilis may affect the third nerve anywhere in its course from the centre to the periphery. Other causes may be mentioned—affections of the third nerve apart from syphilis, influenza, exposure to cold, contusion of the eye, diabetes, and degenerative diseases of the central nervous system, especially tabes. Prognosis. — This must be guarded, as the result is very variable, except in the case of diphtheria, where the prognosis is always favour- able. Treatment.—The cause should if possible be treated ; general tonics may be given, and if the condition persists, the patient may be helped by correcting glasses for close work. Accouchement Force. .SeeLabour, Operations ; aiul Pregxaxcy, H.kmorrhage. Accoucheur.—A practitioner of obstet- rics ; the (late) feminine form is accoucheuse. See Labour, Management of. A.C.E. Mixture.—An ansesthetic mix- ture of alcohol, chloroform, and ether. See Anaesthesia. Acedia,.—A mental state characterised by want of interest, apathy, and sadness ; met with most often in young monks or in solitary and studious individuals. AcephaiOCystS. 'SVe Hydatid Disease. AcephaluS. — A monstrosity; a twin fcEtus with absence of the head. VVhen associ- ated with absence of other parts, there is acephalo- brachius, acephalocardius, etc. AS'ee Teratology. Aceta. — The vinegai's. Acetic acid, not vinegar, is used in their preparation. See Pre- scribing. Acetabulum. See Hip-Joint, Defor- mities. Acetaniiide.—An antipyretic medicine, known also as antifebrin and phenyl-acetamide (CH3. CO . NH . CgHj,). The dose is from 1 to 3 grains, but toxic symptoms may follow even medicinal doses, and its external use may cause poisoning in infants and children (cyanosis, collapse, albuminuria, hsematoporphyrin in the urine). See Analgesics ; and Toxicology. Acetic Acid. See Micro - Organisms ; QCsoPHAGUS {Infla III Illation); Toxicology ; and Urine, Pathological Changes. Acetonaemia and Acetonuria. *S'ee Breath ; Diabetes Mellitus ; Puerpbrium, Physiology ; Unconsciousness ; and Urine, Pathological Changes. Acetopyrin.—A compound of acetyl- salicylic acid with antipyrin. An antipyretic useful in rheumatic affections, and said to be without a depressant action on the heart. Dose, •5 to 8 grains. AcetOZOne.—An antiseptic with anses- thetic properties (benzoyl-acetyl-peroxide). It has been prescribed mixed with an inert powder in typhoid fever and chronic diarrhoea. Dose, 4 to 5 grains. Acheiia.—Absence of the lips. AchiiiobursitiS. — Inflammation and thickening of the bursie which surroiind the tendo Achillis ; achillodynia. >S'ee Burs^e. Achioropsia. — Green-blindness. See Colour Vision. Achoiia.—Deficiency or complete absence of bile. Achondroplasia {see also Cretinism ; Hand; Head).—Definition.—Achondroplasia is a foetal disease which causes a defective growth of certain of the bones in utero, and leads to con- genital dwarfing of the extremities and other deformities which persist through life. Nomenclature and History.— The condition