BALNEOLOGY 352 effectual application of which taxes the know- ledge and experience of the spa practitioner. The recognition of the part played by toxins in many disorders emphasises the importance of eliminative treatment. In many conditions of low health, some or all of the excretory functions are at fault. How common is chronic inaction of the bowels and of the skin ! Again, persons who lead a sedentary and artificial life, it may be with habitual nervous over - expenditure, maintained by a stimulating diet, frequently find that a periodical course of eliminative treat- ment at one of the spas maintains them year by year in average health and prevents or re- tards the development of family diseases. (a) Digestive Disorders.—In those common defects of nutrition that are traceable to catarrh of the digestive mucous membrane, and feeble secretory and muscular power of the same, waters and baths are often beneficial, and should always be combined with an appropriate diet. Many forms of mineral water, but especially the weak muriated, and muriated- alkaline, and the nearly pure or effervescent waters, may be used internally. In cases where waters are ill borne, benefit often results from thermal and subthermal baths. The massive sedation or gently stimulating action produced on the skin surface appears to be reflected on the mucous surface (vide supra). More^ stimu- lating applications, such as the douche Ecossais, may be gradually added. Gastric neuroses and other forms of painful dyspepsia, with emacia- tion, are peculiarly amenable to this treatment. The use of sulphated or muriated waters in abdominal plethora and hepatic dyspepsia may also be suitably supplemented by thermal baths. (6) Disorders of the Blood. — In anaemia, chlorosis, malaria, etc., baths act by promoting oxidation and change of tissue, by improving digestion and stimulating the nervous centres. In these conditions may often be remarked the restorative action, called by the French re- constituant. (c) Gout.—The various nutritional disorders due to particular faults in the chemistry of digestion or to specific invasion, furnish a large majority of chronic invalids. If carefully regulated to the requirements of the case in hand, balneo-therapeutics afford to this large class an effectual means of treatment. In gout, the very common return, during spa treatment, of pain and tenderness, sometimes in long- forgotten sites of former attacks, indicates the searching influence both of waters and baths. In many cases no form of thermal bath is admissible, and the treatment is confined to the internal use of waters with dieting. In others, a suitable course of baths alone will effectually secure a long immiuiity from symptoms. This is equally the case whether the gouty manifesta- tion be articular, or located in the digestive, circulatory, or nervous systems. The elimina- tive functions and the normal tissue exchange are alike restored. {d) Rheumatism. — In joint affections, the result of rheumatic fever, as well as in those that gradually supervene on exposure to cold and damp, many forms of baths prove beneficial. In all recent and subacute articular changes, thermal treatment miist be gentle and tentative; in chronic conditions more stimulating. For stiffness or adhesions, the result of bygone inflammation, a highly stimulating thermal treatment may be employed, and local applica- tions made, of brines, peats, muds, vapour, and hot air in an ascending order of temperature. In chronic painful conditions of the fibrous tissues—the result of exposure or injury in predisposed subjects — thermal treatment and waters are of much service. (e) {Degenerative) arthritis.—Most of the various forms of degenerative disease known as rheumatoid or osteo-arthritis are at one stage or another amenable to balneo - therapeutic treat- ment. It should, however, be carefully adapted to the stage and phase of the complaint. In the early, or inflammatory stage, which some- times lasts over years, only a sedative or sub- thermal bath is appropriate, par excellence the low-pressure massage-douche. Later, when in- flammatory reaction has subsided and degenera- tive changes are marked, the blood supply of the joint is apt to be curtailed, and local thermal applications are beneficial by restoring the circulatory and nutritional activity. In the arthritis of middle life (a different clinical group), and in localised arthritis, the result of slight injuries in later life, balneary treatment may sometimes have the happiest results. (/) Senile atrophy.—In atrophic changes, and in commencing fibroid degeneration, regulated thermal applications are of benefit by stimulat- ing and equalising the arterial circulation and by bringing blood supply to ill-nourished parts. Subthermal warmth and moisture mollify the tissues and soothe and stimulate the nervous centres. In the old, high temperatures should only be locally applied. (g) Specific cachexias.—Most or all cachexias, specific or otherwise, are more or less amenable to a properly devised health-resort treatment, with appropriate waters, baths, climate, etc. Under improved conditions of nutrition the specific cause often becomes less operative for longer or shorter periods, and it may be even wholly or partially eliminated. 4. Disorders of the Nervous System.—Both local and general nervous disorders, not due to irremediable structural disease, are favourably affected by an appropriate course of baths. (a) Peripheral affections.—Affections of the peripheral nerves and nerve endings—neuralgia, or neuritis, whether due to gout, lead, alcohol, or other toxic influence—are often advantage- ously treated at the mineral spas. In addition