ALETRIS FARINOSA 105 Aletris FarinOSa.—star grass or colic root, growing in the United States of America; tonic and stomachic ; used in diseases of the chest and uterus. Aleuronat.—A proprietary food prepara- tion. Set' DiABi'yi'ES Meij>itus. Alexander-Adams' Operation. —Shortening tlie round ligaments of the uterus. See Pelvis ; Perineum anii Pelvic Floor ; and Uterus, Displacements of. Alexia.—A form of aphasia; word blind- ness : an inability to read correctly from defect- ive recognition of written or printed characters. See Aphasia. Alexins.—Bactericidal proteids, belonging to the class of enzymes, and largely or exclusively the product of the leucocytes. The interaction of the specific immune hody [fixator) and the complement {alexin) causes the destruction of the infecting agent. See Immunity. AlexOCyte.—A protective cell secreting alexins or antitoxins. See Alexins ; Immunity. Alg'Se. — Cryptogamic plants, including sea-weeds and Irish moss; they have only a small nutritive value as foods. See Diet. Alg^esia.—Sensiliility to pain. Alg^id.—Cold, chilly ; applied specially to the symptoms in the cold stage of an ague. See Cholera ; Malaria. Algfiers. See Balneology {Africa). Alg^iomUSCUlar.—Civing rise to pain- ful muscular mnvcments. Alg^Ophobia. — iVIorl)id sensitiveness to pain. Alienation.—Derangement of the mental faculties. Set- Insanity. Alimentary System. See Abdomen, Clinical Investigation ; Abdomen, Injuries OF ; Abdominal Tumours, Diagnosis ; Appendi- citis ; Appetite ; Ascites ; Bile and Bilious- ness ; Breath ; Colic ; Colon ; Colotomy ; (Constipation ; Diarrhcea : Diet ; Digestion ; Duodenum; Dysentery; Dysphagia; Emetics; Enemata ; Enteroptosis ; F/eces ; Food ; Gall- Bladder and Bile-Ducts ; Gastro-Intestinal Disorders ; H.ematemesis ; Hernia ; Indiges- tion ; Intestines ; Jaundice ; Liver ; Mesen- teric Glands ; Mouth and Jaws ; Oesophagus; Pancreas ; Peritoneum ; Pharynx ; Physio- logy ; Pica; Rectum; Salivary Glands; Stomach; Stomatitis; Teeth; Tongue: Typhoid Fever; Visceral Pain; Vomiting. Alkalies and Alkalinity. See Ammonium; Blood; Digestion; Indigestion; Kidney, Surgical Affections of ; Toxicology {The Alkalies); Urination, Disorders of ; and Urine, Pathological Changes in. Alkaline Treatment. <SVeDiabetes Mellitlts ; Mineral Waters. Alkaline Waters. Waters. Se Mineral Alkaloids {see also Cocaine; Morphino- mania ; Ptomaines ; Toxicology). — Defini- tion.— Alkaloids are bodies of considerable molecular complexity, but of definite chemical constitiition, formed by the metabolic changes of living protoplasm in the cells of animals, plants, and fungi. Their solutions have an alkaline reaction; they combine with acids to form salts; invariably contain the elements carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and, with few excep- tions, oxygen ; and answer as a class to a series of special tests. Like the metallic bases they are electro - positive on being electrolysed. Several of the alkaloids have been produced synthetically. Composition and Character.—Alkaloids as a rule are crystalline or amorphous solids, but some are liquid. They are soluble only with diflficulty in water, the resulting solutions pos- sessing a bitter taste ; almost all their salts are easily dissolved by water ; the alkaloids them- selves can be separated from these solutions by the addition of a caustic alkali, or in some cases of an alkaline cai'bonate. All the members of the alkaloid group form insoluble compounds with the same reagents, such as tetrachloride of platimnn, phospho-molj'lidic acid, tannic acid, and mercuric perchloride along with iodide of potash. The chemical constitution of the vegetable alkaloids used in medicine has a profound influence upon their pliarmacological action. Many of them are pyridin (C^H^N) or chinolin (CgHyN) derivatives; in fact they are com- pound ammonias, in which hydrogen atoms have been replaced by various radicals. To illustrate the modern opinions as to the molecular constitution of alkaloids, the following- series of progressive changes in the V)en}5ene nucleus (C^jH^,) may be ti'aced. If an atom of nitrogen lie suljstituted for CH in this nucleus, pyridin is obtained, C-H-N, or if the nucleus be doubled, and the same substitution made, chinolin, CH-N, is formed. HC HC CH CH CH CH HC HC CH C /\CH N Pyridin. X c \ CH Chinolin. CH If the formula of chinolin be doubled, but without an atom of nitroi;en in the additional