505 BEAIN, SURGERY OF the case of the various conditions of disease and njury of the brain may be found under the ditterent headings of epilepsy, cerebral tumour, etc., it will be as well at this stage to lay down rules which will apply generally to surgical operations on the brain. Preparation of the Patient. — The patient should be kept in bed for a few days before operation; a low, digestible diet given, the bowels should be opened on the morning of the operation by a purgative given the night before, and, if necessary, by an enema in the morning. If he has been taking bromide of potassium for epilepsy, it is as well to stop it several days before operation, as it lessens his power of resist- ing the shock, which is often very severe. The head should be completely shaved at least twenty-four hours before operation, re- peatedly washed with soap and water, then scrubbed with turpen- tine, and subsequently with sulphuric ether. A compress of sterilised gauze wrung out of a solution of formalin, corrosive sublimate (1 in 2000) or carbolic acid (1 in 40), covered with mackintosh, should then be applied at least twelve hours before opera- tion, and must be kept on until the commence- ment of the operation. Before this compress is put on, it is as well to measure and mark out on the scalp with nitrate of silver, or a sterilised aniline pencil, any line required, such as the fissure of Rolando or fissure of Sylvius. Lnmediately before the operation a hypo- dermic injection of from \ to \ grain of morphia should be administered; this has the double object of lessening htemorrhage from the brain by contracting the arterioles, and of allowing the patient to be kept unconscious during the operation with a much smaller quantity of the anjesthetic. There is no question that, where an anaesthetic is necessary, as it always is unless the patient be comatose, chloroform is the best, as its use is accompanied by much less congestion of the cerebral vessels than when ether is given. Details of Operation.—The head should be kept fairly high, and on a good firm pillow, so as to lessen hasmorrhage. When the patient is under the influence of the antesthetic, the surgeon, having taken scrupulous care to render his hands, instru- ments, etc., aseptic, first bores a hole with an awl, or other suitable instrument, through the scaljj into the skull at one or more points, so as to accurately mark out on the skull tlie exact line of the fissure of Rolando, or any other region he may wish to identify, corresponding with the marks he has already made on the surface of the scaljj. When the scalp flap is retracted, he will then have these marks on the 3.—Diagram showing arteiy. x-x\ Lateral Sinus relation of brain to the fissures of the skull, and to the middle meningeal line of attachment of tentorium to inner aspect of the skull. bone to guide him to the area which he wishes to expose. The Incision in the Scalp.—The scalp being- then once more carefully washed with lysol solution (1 in 100) or carbolic solution (1 in 40), the surgeon makes a horse-shoe flap over the site which he wishes to trephine.^ The flap should be a good deal bigger than the expected trephine opening, and its base should l)e so arranged as to include, as far as possible, the chief arteries and nerves coming to the part, so that the blood and nerve supply shall be inter- fered with as little as may be. As a rule, it is as well to leave the pericranium on the bone and not attempt to remove it with the flap of scalp; but this does not matter much. The usual plan is to open the pericranium by a sepai'ate crucial incision sufficiently to allow the trephine to be applied to the uncovered l)one. ' The old crucial incision is now abaudoued as less convenient and more apt to be followed by hernia cerebri. Where there is already a wound, as in some cases of com- pound fracture, this wound may be enlarged if necessary in any direction ; but where possible, it is as well not to have the stitches in the scalp directly over the gap in the bone, but to adhere to the principle of the horse-shoe flaj) as far as may be.