ACTINOMYCOSIS 53 chronic tubercles. The spaces separated by the septa are occupied by more or less degenerated leucocytes (pus corpuscles) which have migrated from neighbouring vessels; among them may be found more or less altered connective tissue corpuscles, epithelioid cells, or giant cells. In human lesions the leucocytes are usually so numerous that the elementary follicle has the characters of an abscess; in cattle, the connec- tive tissue elements predominate as a rule, so that the follicle has the characters of a solid granuloma, and resembles closely a miliary tubercle. About the centre of the follicle the parasite is usually found, it is closely invested by a layer of leucocytes or of epithelioid cells and giant cells. Many of the cells surrounding the actinomyces contain cocci (spores ?). Characters of the Actinomyces.—Actinomyces grains vary in size ; they may be granules, in- visible to the naked eye, or be quite distinct and reach a diameter of 0'60 mm. or even 1 mm. (■^^ inch). The larger grains are usually brownish or brownish - yellow in colour, when seen by transmitted light; yellowish - white, sulphur - yellow, or, rarely, brownish, by re- flected light. The small colonies are almost transparent and colourless. The granules found in human cases are usually soft and easily crushed ; those from bovine cases are frequently gritty owing to calcification. These granules may be round, elongated or lobulated. Their structures may be ascertained by crushing or teasing them in a drop of water or saline solu- tion (liquor potassiB or hydrochloric acid may also be used for special pm-poses). These simple methods are usually sufficient for diagnostic purposes, and the characters of the organism may be easily ascertained by means of a micro- scope, with a magnifying power of from 100 to 300 diameters. For a more complete study of the parasite, higher powers and various staining methods may be used, notably Ciram's method, to bring out the filaments ; staining by eosin, orange, or picrocarmin to study the clubs. In an actinomyces grain, distinct to the naked eye, tlie following parts may be recognised from the centre to the periphery. {See Frontispiece to this volume.) 1. Interwoven filaments, measuring from 0'3 to 0-5 n in diameter, branching and radiating towards the periphery. Many of the filaments are wavy, spirilla-like. Some contain rounded bodies resembling cocci or spores. Between the filaments, cocci, and short segments of filaments, resembling bacilli, are found. The cocci vary in size, but usuall}' measure about 0'5 /x in diameter; they often appear in clumps in the centre of young colonies, and, as jii-eviously shown, are taken up by migratory and epitlielioid cells. 2. The thickened claviform peripheral ends of the radiating filaments form a supei'ficial layer, enclosing raoi-e or less complctelj" the rest of the colony. These clubs are arranged radially, their thin end being directed towards the centre of the grain ; they measure from 10 /j. to 60 or more, in length, and up to 10 /a across in their broadest part. These clubs may be branched. It is their arrangement which gives to the organism its typical appearance, and which suggested to Harz the name of ray fungus. In human lesions, specially when they are young or of rapid formation, the clubs may be absent, or small and inconspicuous. In cattle lesions they appear early, the filaments often become indistinct, and are difficult to demonstrate, specially after calcification has begun. Ctiltwation of the Actinontyces.—Some of the grains are picked out of lesions freshly opened, free from adventitious contaminations; these grains are deposited on the surface of nutrient agar, glycerine agar, or potato, and in a few days, specially on glycerine agar, and at the temperature of the body, evidences of growth appear.^ The actinomyces grows also in milk and other fluid media. The growth on artificial media is composed of filaments, which become covered after a time with an efflorescence composed of cocci (spores ?); these cocci, when cultivated again, give rise to typical filaments. Such cultures may retain their vitality for over four years. The charac- ters of the cultures of actinomyces granules are very similar to those of other organisms placed in the groups Cladothrix and Streptothrix. Natairal habitat.—Organisms similar to the actinomyces have been found on vegetable pro- ducts, more specially on various parts of grami- naceous plants. The actinomyces has not, so far, been cultivated from siich sources, but Liebman states that when a grain is inoculated the parasite grows with the developing plant, which becomes infected in all its parts. The sharp awns (bristles, barbs) of the floral leaves of the spikelets, composing the heads of gramineaj, would when infected be specially dangerous, so would also be stiff straw and splinters of wood. All these may easily pene- trate the mucous membrane of the mouth and alimentary canal, and even the skin. Jensen in 1880 attracted attention to epizootics occurring in cattle fed on barley grown on newly cultivated land recently reclaimed from the sea. Vegetable debris have been found by various observers (Bostrom, Soltmann, etc.) in the midst of actino- mycotic lesions, and sometimes forming the nucleus from which the parasite appeared to grow. Israel is of opinion that decayed teeth and the tonsillar crypts may constitvite suitable places for the development of the fungus, but the leptothrix buccal is may simulate the arrange- ment of the actinomyces and lead to erroneous interpretations. Sources of Infection.—It is therefore probable ' Optimum temperature, 32'to 37°; growth very slow at 18" C, arrested at 52° C. A temperature of 70° C. for ten miuutes lias been found sufficient to kill the organism.