APHASIA 233 or organic diwoase of the lii(jh£r cerebral speech- mechanisms properly so called. And by speech I mean vocal speech or its direct equivalents (e.;/. the written speech of educated people who are possessed of all their faculties, the tactile speech of l>lind persons, and the tinger-speech and lip- I'eading of deaf persons). The term aphasia should not, in my opinion, include : the defects in the perception of spoken and written speech, which are due to disease in the end-oi"giins of special sense—the ear and the eye ; mere defects of intelligence, defects in pantomime, nor defects of articulation, such as are due to lesions in the lower cerebral speech mechanisms (the pons Varolii and medulla oblongata). Varieties ok Aphasia.—The higher cerebral mechanisms concerned with speech are of two Ivinds, viz. receptive and emissive ; consequently, the derangements of speech included under the term aphasia may be divided into two great pri- mary divisions, namely, sensory aphasia and motor aphasia. The two chief forms of sensory aphasia are—(I) word-deafness, and (2) word-blindness ; and the two chief forms of motor aphasia which are usually described are — (1) motor-vocal aphasia, and (2) m,otor-writing aphasia (agra- phia) ; but many authorities now think that in many cases in which agraphia is present, the agraphia is not, strictly speaking, a true form of aphasia. With this opinion 1 entirely agree. Further, since each of these varieties of aphasia may be due to lesions of—{a) the speech centres tli.emselves, or (/>) the conducting tracts, which pass to the sensory speech centres, or from the motor speech centre, two sub-varieties or forms of word-deafness, of woi'd-blindness, of motor-vocal aphasia and of agraphia may occur, viz. subcortical and cortical word - deafness, subcortical and cortical word-blindness, subcortical and cortical motor-vocal aphasia, sub- cortical and cortical agra- l)hia. The clinical differ- ences between thesedifferent varieties will be afterwards described. end of the second frontal convolution. In my opinion the motor-writing centre is probably merely a part of the ordinary psycho-motor centi'eforthcupperextremity(hand and forearm), and is probably, therefore, situated in the ascend- ing frontal or ascending parietal convolutions. ASC = the auditory speech centre, to which external stimuli pass from the ear, probably through a lower auditory centre (not represented on the diagram). VMSC = the motor - vocal speech centre, the action of which is (probably) chiefly controlled and stimulated by the auditory speech centre, and from which outgoing impulses proceed; the ultimate effect is to produce the muscular move- ments necessary for vocal speech. VSC = the visual speech centre, to w Inch ex- ternal stimuli pass from the eyes through the lower or half-vision centres (HV, HV). MWC = the motor - writing centre (probably not a speech centre), which is chiefly controlled and stimulated by the visual speech centre, and from which outgoing impulses pt'oceed, the ultimate effect of which is to produce the mus- cular movements concerned in writing. JVote.—Some authorities think that impulses from the visual speech centre pass through the motor-vocal speech centre in order to reach the writing centre. In the diagram they are repre- sented as passing directly from the VSC to the MWC ; this, in my opinion, is their more prob- able course. A lesion at 1 which destroyed the conducting fibres passing from one half-vision centre to the visual speech centre would not ]n-oduce word- blindness. A lesion at 1 which destroyed the conducting Anatomical Introduction The Position of the Speech Centres.—The aiulitory speech centre, ASC, is situated in the posterior part of the first, and probably also of the second, temporo- sphenoidal convolutions. The motor-vocal speech centre, MSG, is situated in the posterior end of the inferior frontal convolution (the foot and ascending portions of Broca's convolution). Tiic visual speech centre, VSC, is situated in the angular gyrus, and perliaps the adjacent part of tlie supra-marginal convolution. The exact position of the motor-writing centre, MWC, has not yet been definitely determined. Exner has suggested that it is "^situated in the posterior fibres passing from both half-visual centres to the visual speech centre would produce word- blindness, but would not produce agraphia (the visual sjieech centre being unaffected and able to play upon the motor-writing centre). A lesion at 2 which destroyed the visual