ASTHMA 317 notice. A heavy meal after mid-day will in many asthmatics ensure a paroxysm in the niglit. Attention to the condition of the heart will sometimes lead to the cure of asthma. It has been suggested that by deci-easing the size by treatment, less pressure is exerted on the vagus behind the heart, and therefore that paroxysmal attacks dependent on the irritation of the vagus may thus be cured. Caffeine is sometimes found to have a considerable influence in the cure of asthma; it is probable it acts by its favourable effect on the heart. It is used some- times for the relief of asthmatic paroxysms. Although it is not proved that asthma is actually caused by a general disturbance of the nervous system, yet the influence which some alteratives and tonics have in the cure of asthma renders this probable. Iodide of potas- sium has in many cases a markedly beneficial influence, which is specially noted in those cases in which a certain amount of continuous bronchitis is accompanied by nocturnal par- oxysmal attacks of dyspnoea. Five to ten grains of the iodide given three times a day will very commonly give great relief, and at times under its influence the paroxysmal attacks completely disappear. Arsenious acid, in the form of five drops of Fowler's solution three times daily, is at times beneficial, and in a few cases zinc salts are reported to have done good. The liypophosphites of soda and lime, too, in doses of four gi-ains three times a day, liave proved of advantage in many cases. The adoption of these means, medicinal or otlier- wise, which are calcidated to improve the general health, are likely to be of service, and ailments such as gout and syphilis must be met by appropriate treatment. It is worthy of note tliat occasionally members of gouty families are attacked by asthma in adolescence, and that tliere is probably a connection between asthma thus occurring and the hereditary gouty in- fluence. (b) Trmtnmit of Paroxysm.—Whilst adopt- ing means for the cure of asthma, i.e. for the prevention of the attacks, the alleviation of the paroxysms also requires attention. It has been already pointed out that the substances that are commonly used for the relief of asthmatic paroxysms contain either a nitrite, or atropine, or one of the allied alkaloids. Nitrites are used both internally and by inhalation. The action of nitrite of amyl when inhaled is of such short duration that it is only occasionally that it suffices to check a paroxysm. Nitrite of sodium and nitro-glycerine (which acts like a nitrite) are sometimes advantageously employed, but the solution of nitrite of ethyl of the Phar- maeopocia is the most convenient, and at the same time the most effective, nitrite for admin- istration. Two drachms of the solution sliould be given in two tablespoonfuls of watei-, and afterwards a drachm every ten minutes for three doses. Belladonna and stramonium are sometimes of great value when given internally in bronchitis with paroxysmal dyspnoea, they should 1)0 given in full doses, ten to fifteen minims of the tinctures. AVhen the paroxysms come on suddenly and at long intervals they will not be found of value. For the immediate relief of asthmatic attack the smoke derived from the burning of a large number of substances in the form of powders and paper, is much used, and many forms of cigarettes are likewise sold. Out of eighteen such substances which were tested, the vapour of eight was found to contain a nitrite, and in that of thirteen there was distinct evidence of a pupil dilator. There can be no doubt that the inhalation of the vapours from the sub- stances above mentioned are at times of tem- porary service, but no one can say which will act the best in any individual case. They all may be tried in turn, but it nuist be remem- bered that excessive use of some may lead to the production of the physiological effects of the mydriatic substances contained in them. Injections of tartrate of morphia, gr. are of great value in relieving paroxysms of asthma, but when the asthma is complicated with much bi'onchitis it becomes less suitable, and must be used with great care. Chloral-hydrate in doses of twenty grains will also cut short spasmodic attacks, and, provided there is no evidence of cardiac failure, may be given in cases Avhere there is much broncliitis present. The com- pressed-air bath when available gives relief, and its continued use seems in some cases to render the asthmatic attacks milder. Remedies which induce nausea and depres- sion are undoubtedly sometimes of service in cutting short a paroxysm of asthma. Tobacco smoke to excess so as to cause nausea is some- times effective in shortening an attack. Lobelia probably acts by the nausea and depression it produces. In ordinary astlmia it has not proved in my hands of much service. The inhalation of the spray of ipecacuanha wine is a remedy more adaj^ted for the paroxysms of dyspnoea which sometimes accompany bronchitis than for genuine asthma, and the same may be said of ammonia, the vapour of which, carefully admin- istered, gives great relief in some forms of bronchitic dyspnoea. It would probably fail entirely, however, in cutting short a paroxysm of asthma. Pyridine has been used with success, but its odour is very objectionable. Tiie in- halation of chloroform has been found of some service in relieving dyspnoea during asthmatic attacks, and iodide of ethyl is also beneficial. Ether is not as a rule found beneficial, though the administration of ether in the form of perles or capsules is at times advantageous in the dyspna'a of chronic broncliitis. Acetic ether, too, is at times of value, both for internal