104 ALCOHOLISM smell. All drugs, therefore, should be given in masked form, and unnamed, or by the tube. Experience teaches that each case of sleepless- ness must be treated on its merits, and that various drugs may be tried until one is found which suits the patient well. Before resorting to hypnotics, however, a warm drink at bedtime, with a stimulant, should be tried. A little digitalis or strophanthus and strychnin often allows the patient to sleep. Sal volatile should not be given in a recognisable form. Morphia is often particularly useful in allaying the rest- lessness which can almost amount to pain; but bromide, in large doses, is the most universally useful drug. For the rest, the treatment applies chiefly to complications. The gastritis, and other abdominal disorders, nervous, cardiac, and pulmonary complications should be treated secundum artem, and with as close conformity to the general principles of the treatment of alco- holism as is possible. Experience proves that a great number of alcoholics recover very quickly from these complications as soon as the alcohol is eliminated. Etiology.—It is easy to state simply the problem which presents itself to the student of the causation of alcoholism; but the reply to the questions propounded must always be complex and difficult. There are two aspects of the sub- ject, which we may state in the form of interro- gatives: (1) Why do many persons drink to excess? and (2) Why do some of such persons incur the complex of neuroses, to which we give the name Alcoholism ? In reply to these queries it is usual to speak of predisposing and of ex- citing causes, but as a rule the same factor plays both these parts. It is not enough to say that people drink to excess because they like drinking, for the simple reason that excess obviously does not add pro- gressively to pleasure. Nor is it the case that we can in many instances plead a special "crave" which is characteristic of the drunkard's consti- tution, though such a factor must be recognised in a few {see " Dipsomania "). We are therefore brought back to the fact that it is a defect of control, an impairment of the voluntary in- hibitory functions, which accounts for alcoholic excess. That occurs, as we have seen, as the result of alcoholic dissolution. But it is in many cases a defect which stigmatised the pre- vious constitution and character. For practical utility the practitioner must be on the outlook, especially in the young, for what is well de- scribed in the popular term as " slackness." Factors which determine an original or an acquired defect of purpose :— Heredity is of very great consequence, but we must observe that facts are wanting which establish the belief that an alcoholic pedigree is of greater importance than other neuropathic factors (Imbecility, Insanity, Epilepsy, Paralysis, Prostitution, Crime, etc.). Bodily Distress very frequently induces drink- ing, especially in middle-class women. We must in particidar note the importance of all the evolutional and reproductive incidents (adoles- cence, pregnancy, etc.), and the abiding lassi- tude of slow disorders (especially heart affections, neurasthenia, and influenza). Mental Distress in any form—financial, social, or domestic worry—incites the patient to seek indifference in drinking, and these, and perhaps a commencing insanity, may impair his control. Factors which aggravate the temptation to drinking : — Constitutional susceptibility to tJie effects oj alcohol is important, as when the patient reacts with unTisual delight to stimulants; but this nuist be distinguished from a specific crave which precedes drinking, and is not satisfied otherwise than by alcohol. Public Sanction increases the chances of ex- cess, both by the multitude of licensed houses and by the slackness of public opinion. Domestic Conditions are probably still more important. Squalor necessarily induces want of care, and that and the general irregularity of a drunkard's home are in my opinion as im- portant in educating his children into drunken- ness as are their constitutional proclivities. Factors which determine the pathological alcoholic changes:— Excess of Alcohol, which is a variable quantity for each individual, will induce alcoholism even if the liquor has been pure. A neuropathic diathesis is of special import- ance in determining the more aggravated and anomalous effects of alcoholism (Insanity, Epi- lepsy, etc.). Speaking generally, a patient who reacts unduly to alcohol is likely to incur alco- holism, but many cases have not manifested any notable signs of special neurotic constitution. Impure Beverages induce all the graver neurotic and visceral disorders in alcoholism. Fusel oil, furfurol, and the essence of absinthe are con- vulsant poisons. The aromatic adulterations are of the first importance in headaches, vertigo, and general depression. The pigments commonly used in wines, and these and the adulterations of beers combine with the impurities mentioned in aggravating the disorders of the stomach, liver, and kidneys. That such impurities are permitted is characteristic of our public indiffer- ence, and an unpleasant sign of the perhaps unconscious corruption of those who are respon- sible for our fiscal policy. Aldohyde. — Acetic aldehyde; ethyl alcohol from which two atoms of hydrogen have been removed {alcohol dehydrogenatwni); it has various compounds, such as aldehydammonia, aldehydene (acetylene), aldehydosalicylic acid, adol, etc. See Alcohol. Aleppo Boil or Evil. See Furunculus Orientalis.