500 BRAIN—ATROPHY, HYPERTROPHY, CYSTS, INFLAMMATIONS term hypertrophy, but rather by enlargement of brain, with a greater or less degree of sclerosis. The treatment is as unsatisfactory as the pro- gnosis in all cases where the hypertrophy has produced any abnormal phenomena. Cysts op the Brain and Cystic Degeneration Cysts may be the result of: (1) Defective development (porencephaly); (2) cysts formed as the result of an old hsemorrhage; (3) cysts representing an old patch of softening ; (4) cysts forming in the substance of encephalic tumours ; and lastly, (5) dermoid and hydatid cysts. (1) Porencephaly. — This term ought, as Heschl suggested, to be solely used for cavities due to embryonic errors, where, from absence of brain substance (cortex and subcortical tissue), a cavity is left which in most cases communi- cates with the ventricle. Cavities formed as the result of htemorrhage or from softening following on embolism or thrombosis should not be included under this title; still, as Sachs sug- gested that where, as the result of interference with the foetal brain, a cavity resulted, such cases might properly be called acquired poren- cephaly. In some cases of porencephaly the cavity is entirely covered in by brain substance, in others it is invested by pia and arachnoid, or the pia may be reflected over the walls of the cavity, especially near the cortex, and the arachnoid may roof in the funnel-shaped space. The cerebral hemispheres and the island of Reil are common sites for such cavities. A radiating distribution of the cerebral convolu- tions around the cavity has been described by Kundrat as typical of true porencephaly, and the primary fissures of the brain are always represented. When the cavity is not superficial, the cerebral convolutions situated over it are narrowed and depressed. Kundrat believes that whereas in true cases the pia either closely covers the cortex when the cavity is subcortical, or partially lines the cavity where the cavity communicates with the subarachnoid space, in acquired or spurious cases the pia neither closely covers the cortex nor dips into the cavity in the same way as in the true cases. Where the cavity communicates with a lateral ventricle, the ventricle is dilated and its ependyma thick- ened. The skull in these cases often under- goes alteration in shape, the affected side being in some cases increased, in others diminished in size, and the face may be correspondingly asym- metrical. The clinical features vary greatly with the size and site of the cavity. There is almost always mental disturbance, and often idiocy. Loss of speech, sometimes sight and hearing, are not infrequent, as in a case seen by the author, while spastic paralysis with contracture, athetosis and great modification in size and shape of limbs are common, while epilepsy often occurs. Hemi- plegia is not infrequent. The diagnosis of the existence of a cavity may be difficult, although it may be suspected from the group of symptoms present. The prognosis is good, so far as life is con- cerned, for at least some years, but recovery is impossible. The treatment must obviously be based only on general principles. (2) Cysts resulting from haemorrhage gener- ally occur in persons who survive a cerebral hfemorrhage for some months. The walls are firm, ochre-coloured, and contain hsematoidin and hsemosiderin crystals, while the contents vary with the age of the cyst. (3) Cysts resulting from a patch of softening- contain the fluid remains of softened brain tissue from which the fat and solid elements have been removed. (4) Cysts are not infrequently met with in sarcomata, sometimes in other tumours, and require no special comment. (5) Dermoid cysts are exceptionally rare. Kruse has described one case, and has noted two previous references to cases described in literature. In Kruse's case the cyst was situ- ated in the neighbourhood of the fourth ventricle, and had caused no symptoms; in one of the others the cyst was in the cerebellum, and was associated with paraplegia. (6) Hydatid cysts. — A number of cases of cerebral hydatid cysts have been described. The symptoms, mainly irritation followed by depres- sive phenomena, closely resemble those resulting from intracranial tumour. The cysts are generally localised in position, but may be multiple, and very frequently become superficial. They may dry up, and so lead to recovery with- out any interference. Cystic degeneration is a disseminated collection of cysts, many barely visible to the naked eye, and the larger ones being about the size of a pea. These may run together, and they are believed by most authorities to be due to dilata- tion of perivascular lymph spaces, although the evidence is not conclusive. They have been met with in cases of locomotor ataxia, progressive paralysis, and also in cases with no mental or other signs of brain disturbances. Chronic Progressive Softening of the Brain In the white matter of the cerebral hemi- sphere there is a region which is supplied partly by cortical and partly by central nutrient arteries, and which therefore suffers when, as the result of any arterial disease, there is deficient nourishment conveyed to the brain. Here, as the result of atheroma, for example, patches of softening occur in late middle life or old age. The group of conditions described under chronic progressive softening may not all be due to vascular disease, but those not so included are very inexplicable. The softening is slow in