377 BLACKWATER FEVER paroxysm. When tlie paroxysms are severe and frequent, the temperature may not fall lower than 100° F. during the interval, but when they are mild and far between, the tem- perature falls very soon to normal. After a few paroxysms, or after the disease has persisted for three, four, five, or six days, the patient may get well spontaneously. But frequently the attack is severe. Several par- oxysms may follow in quick succession ; the patient becomes very weak and restless ; his pulse becomes rapid and out of proportion to the temperature; his breathing becomes laboured and sighing—troublesome hiccough sets in. There may be stupor or intense restlessness, and death may take place on the fifth or sixth day, sometimes as early as the second or third day. When recovery takes place, the tempera- ture falls, the vomiting ceases, and the urine soon returns to normal in quantity and colour. But the discoloration of the skin may not entirely disappear before ten days or a fortnight, and the patient may remain weak and anaemic for a considerable period. The death-rate varies greatly in diftcrent places ; it is about 60 per cent in British Central Africa (Scott); 50 per cent on the Gold Coast (Reynalds) ; 22-4 per cent in Greece (Spiridon Kanellis). Black water fever is extremely liable to re- lapses, which may occur weeks or months after the first attack. They may be very frequent and are easily provoked by over-fatigue, and exposure to cold, so long as the disease is " in the system." Each relapse will be, as a rule, milder than the previous one, but they will all exhibit in a greater or less degree the same symptoms as the first attack. Each relapse may consist of one or more paroxysms. The symp- tomatology of blackwater fever is frequently obscui-ed by coxnplicating summer-autumn or tertian infection. If the hlood be examined at the beginning of an attack, the red corpuscles are found to be undergoing rapid destruction; their number may fall in less than twenty-four hours to a third of the normal. But the destruction is soon followed by a rapid regeneration; thus blood corpuscles of every size and nucleated corpuscles will be found under the microscope. At the same time will be witnessed a marked leucocytosis, which begins with the paroxysm and persists for a certain length of time there- after ; it is in every way similar to that which meets the invasion of the spirillurn, Obermeiri in relapsing fever. Various hematozoa have been found in the blood of blackwater fever, amongst them ha^mama^ha vivax. But Fisch, Plehn, Woldert, and other observers who have examined the blood repeatedly in blackwater fever cases, seem to have found more frc(piently a peculiar organism which is very probably the cause of the disease. It is a small unpigmented protozoon possessed of active amoeboid move- ments, and assuming mostly an almond or pear shape. Woldert found about one protozoon in every fifty corpuscles. He noticed that in some cases two parasites having the same shape occurred within the same red corpuscle, and found that the larger sizes sometimes contained one small dotlot of pigment. If freshly-drawn blood be allowed to stand, the serum will be found to present a very dark red colour, in- dicating the presence of much colouring matter in solution. The U7'ine in blackwater fever is generally strongly acid. Its specific gravity varies in- versely to the amount passed. It is usually above normal. When seen by reflection, it is almost black ; when examined by refraction, it is a dark claret colour. On shaking, it pro- duces a reddish-yellow foam. On standing, it deposits a thick reddish-brown sediment, which is chiefly composed of an amorphous yellow substance (destroyed blood corpuscles), aggre- gated into rounded masses or forming regular casts of the renal tubules. By gradually raising the urine to the boiling temperature a reddish-brown coagulum is formed, which consists mostly of cell-globulin. Occasionally a few corpuscles of normal appearance may be detected in the sediment, but as a rule they are totiilly absent. ()f course nephritis may be exceptionally associated with blackwater fever as with tertian fever, and then hfematuria may complicate or follow^ haemoglobinuria, and the urine will contain normally-shaped blood cor- puscles and serum albumen. The spectroscopical examination exiiibits the two absorption bands of oxyliEemoglobin. Yersin found a bacterium in the urine of his patients, and claimed it to be the cause of blackwater fever, but Breaudat recognised it to be bacillus coli communis. Lion noticed the presence of 2^'>'oteus vulgaris, which is a common putrefactive organism. Morbid Anatomy.—The seat of the disease is the blood, in which large numbers of red cor- puscles are attacked and rapidly desti'oyed. This destruction seems to occur chiefly within the capillaries of the internal organs. It is similar to tliat which follows on the transfusion of blood from an animal of a different species. There is always a marked polynuclear leucocy- tosis. The liver, spleen, and kidneys are enlarged, and their congestion is on account of the in- creased functionality demanded for the reduction and elimination of the infected blood corpuscles. The liver is of a yellowish-brown colour on section ; the cells of its parenchyma are en- larged, granular, proliferating (cloudy swelling). Many contain particles of a yellowish substance (reduced blood corpuscles). The gall-bladder alwa_ys contains much bile and may be greatly distended.