133 ANEMIA, PERNICIOUS base of the heart and over the large vessels. The anfEmic bruit is heard over the jugular vein. A point to be remembered in cases where transfusion is to be performed is that the arteries and veins, especially the latter, shrink enormously in this disease, and it is often extremely difficult to find a vein large enough to admit the transfusion canula. One would have expected that dyspnoea would lie a common and prominent symptom, as tlie heart is so markedly enfeebled and the amount of hsemo- globin in the blood so small. But so long as the patient moves about quietly and does not exert himself unnecessarily there is little or no breathlessness; this is probably due to the gradual onset of the condition. In the later stages of the disease, however, dyspnoea some- times becomes very marked. In the same way oedema of the feet and legs, though it is occasion- ally present, is seldom very great until towards the end of the case. There is no characteristic change in the respiratory ajrparaMis, thougli the acute inflam- matory diseases may form serious complications, and the lungs usually become oedematous at last. The spleen is not usually enlarged, nor are the lymphatic glands. The blood, presents by far the most important changes. It is often difficult to get a sufficient quantity for examination; and when a drop appears it is pale, very fluid, so that it tends to run oft' the ear or finger; often streaky, as if the corpuscles and plasma were not thoroughly mixed, and slow in coagulating. If a fresh speci- men be at once examined the red corpuscles are seen to be few in nimiber, not to form rouleaux, and usually to present the utmost diversity in size and shape. It is very characteristic of the disease, however, to find that the majority of the corpuscles, no matter how ill-shaped they may be, are larger than normal, sometimes they may even be 20 /x in diameter. In rare cases the corpuscles are not greatly deformed, but usually poikilocytosis is well marked, and the corpuscles may be pear-shaped, horseshoe-shaped, elongated, or oval—a very characteristic appearance—or they may be very small and may contain a relatively large amount of hfcmoglolnn. These " niicrocytes" were formerly i-egarded as char- acteristic of pernicious anaemia, but this is now known not to be the case. The extremities of the projections of the poikilocytes are often seen to move slightly in the fresh preparation, an appearance which has given rise to the idea that they are amoeboid. There is, of course, no foundation for this view, the movements are due either to slight currents in the plasma or to osmotic changes between corpuscle and plasma. The lunnber of blood plates is small, and the fibrin network is scanty and is slowly formed. Copeman believes that if a fresh preparation l)e laid aside, the corpuscles break up rapidly and crystals of htcmoglobin are formed with unusual rapidity. The white corpihscles in the fresh preparation are also seen to be scanty. Enumeration of Corpuscular Elements—//lamo- f/lohin.—When the red corpuscles are counted they are found to be greatly diminished. Cabot has shown by his tiibles that the average number per cubic millimetre when the patient comes under observation is 1,200,000, but as the disease progresses lower counts are very often found. The number may fall to 500,000, and in very rare cases to 200,000, or even lower. On the other hand, the corpuscles may be very much more numerous. The disease often im- proves under treatment or spontaneously, and during these remissions the corpuscles may rise to the normal number. In cases which remain nearly stationary for some time, as many do, the tendency is for the count to remain at aliout 1,000,000. The leucocytes are almost always diminished in number. The average, as given by Cal)ot, is 3800, and this is certainly not too low a figure. They tend to fall as the case becomes worse, Init there is sometimes a very considerable ante-mortem rise in numbei", which may be so great that the blood looks like that of a lymphatic leukfemia. In children an increase in the number of leucocytes is apt to occur in this, as in other anfcmias of early life ; but in the adult leucocytosis always indicates the pres- ence of some intercurrent complication, such as would cause leucocytosis in a healthy person. The percentage of hoemoglobin is, of course, absolutely greatly diminished, but it is often not diminished in proportion to the diminution in number of the red corpuscles ; and this is one of the principal characteristics of the blood in this disease. For example, with 1,000,000 corpuscles to the cubic millimetre, i.e. one-fifth of the normal, one would expect a hsemoglobin per- centage of 20, a fifth also. Were the case a secondary ansemia or a chlorosis the hasmoglobin percentage would more proliably be between 10 and 15, as the corpuscles are small and poor in pigment, but in pernicious antemia the per- centage is more likely to be al)ove 20, and may even reach 30 or more. The explanation of this is to \>c found in the average large size of the corpuscles, and their richness in hiemoglobin. The colour-index is then said to be high. A million corpuscles with a hajmoglobin percentage of 20 would give a colour-index of TO, with a percentage of 10 an index of 0-5, with one of 30 an index of 1-5. This is, of course, simply a way of expressing the amount of haemoglobin that the average red corpuscle contains. It is when pernicious antcmias are at their worst that the colour-index is likely to be highest; when a remission is taking place the number of corpuscles increases rapidly, and the newly- formed corpuscles are apt to be small and to