461 BRAIN, PHYSIOLOGY OF convolutions, which are termed respectively mperior, middle, and ivferior, or first, second, and third, and one vertical, the ascending frontal or precentral convolution. This is partly bounded in front by the precentral sulcus, which, however, is interrupted so as to allow part of the hinder termination of the three horizontal convolutions to become continuous with the ascendiufi' frontal. The parietal lobe is divided into an upper and lower portion by the long curved inter- parietal fi,sm(re. Above this lie the ascending parietal and S2iperior parietal gyri. Of these two, which are continuous with each other, tlie former lies along the posterior margin of the fissure of Rolando, the latter along the border of the great longitudinal fissui-e as far back as the parieto-occipital sidcus. Below the inter- parietal fissure lie the supra-'inar-ginal and angular gyri. The former of these is situated above the hinder portion of the horizontal limb of the Sylvian fissure. It is arbitrarily divided from the angular gyrus by an imaginary line ])rolonged from the upward bend of the Sylvian fissure to the interparietal sulcus. The angular gyrus lies between this line, the posterior limb of the parietal lobe as af)0ve defined, and a line prolonging backwards tlie Sylvian fissure. The supra-marginal is frequently descril)ed as passing rounfl the upturned extremity of the fissure of Sylvius to become continuous with the superior the Sylvian fissure, of whicii the generally termed the " parallel Fig. 1.—Oiitf 1- siirlace oT left ci-rebral lifuiisipliPre, sliowiug tlit' lobes, tissuies, mul i-oiivulutioi temporal convolutions and the angular gyrus. The angular gyrus, in this case, is said to bend round the hinder end of the parallel sulcus to terminate in the second and third temporal In the temporal lolie an upper, middle, and lower, or first, second, and third temporal con- vohition are recognised. These are separated from each other by two sulci more or less parallel to upper is sulcus." In the occipital lobe three convolutions, fi.rst, second, and third, are generally described. These are not well delimited from each other, and are connected with the adjacent convolu- tions by annectant gyri. An additional lobe, the island of Reil, can ))e seen if the sides of the fissure of Sylvius are held apart. On it are four or five radiating convolutions. On the median aspect of the hemisphere three important sidci are seen. The calloso- niarginal sulcus begins below the rostrum of the corpus callosum, and follows the curve of that structure at a distance rather less than half-way from the free margin of the hemisphere. When almost opposite the splenium of tlie corpus callosum it suddenly bends backward almost at a right angle, and reaches the border of the hemisphere a little behind the fissure of Rolando. The pjarieto - occipital fissure passes downwards and forwards and ends a little below the splenium of the corpus callosum. It is joined near the middle of its length by the calcarine fissure, which is directed from this point towards the tip of the occipital lobe. The convolutions of importance on this sur- face are the nutrginal above, and the gyrus fornicatus below the calloso - marginal sulcus. Between the up- turned part of this ^ fissure and the parieto - occipital sulcus is the square <iuadrate lobe, or precuneus. That portion of the marginal gyrus which is opposite to the upper ends of the ascending frontal and parietal convolu- tions is often termed the para- central \o\)ii[e. Be- tween the parieto- occipital and the calcarine fissures lies the cuneus. Ontheinnersur- face of the tem- poral lobe are the uncinate, near its anterior tip; the lingual and fusiform gyri below the calcarine fissure; and the inferior occipito- temporal, a long gyrus extending, as its name indicates, ;dong the inferior margin of both occipital and temporal lobes. Blood - SUPPLY.—The arterial supply of the brain is derived from the two internal carotid and the two vertebral arteries. The vertebrals