i 481 BRAIN, AFFECTIONS OF BLOOD-VESSELS of the symptoms, the more prominent being persistent and intractable headache, usually associated with distinct mental alterations. Subsequent evidence of thrombosis is by no means uncommon in such cases. In all forms of vascular occlusion occurring in the brain there is danger of death at the onset, and in many this actually occurs, the patient becoming comatose, Cheyne-Stokes' respiration coming on, and death supervening in the course of a few days or even a few hours. Of course this result is more likely to occur in cases in which a large vessel has been affected, and more particularly if the vessel affected be one like the basilar, subserving bilateral functions, and closely related to structures a healthy condition of which is essential to life. It may be stated as a general rule that occlusion of a vessel at the base is always more seriously significant than that of a vessel supplying any part of the hemisphere; so that in any paralytic condition it is always important to examine into the con- dition of the cranial nerves and muscles, because a definite affection of one or other of those structures may furnish important evidence as to the vessel which has become affected, and thi'ough that to the likelihood or unlikelihood of recovery taking place. And if a fatal result does not follow the onset of vascular occlusion at once, it will often be found that a period of danger arises at or about the third day, and again about the tenth day, when perhaps one is Ijeginning to hope that all danger of a fatal issue has passed. What the reason of this is is not very clear, but of the clinical fact there is no doubt. (See also article " Syphilis.") Paralysis Resulting from Vascular Lesions The character of the paralysis resulting from vascular occlusion or from haemorrhage will, of course, depend upon the function of the parts supplied by the vessels which have become lilocked, or have ruptured, and of the parts which have been damaged in consequence. Hemijdegia.—The ordinary form of pai-alysis is hemiplegia, that is, weakness of one side of the face and trunk and of one arm and leg. The whole of one side of the face is usually affected, although the weakness is most obvious in the lower part. The trunk affection is, as a rule, not well marked, although that also is occasionally distinct enough on the one side. The arm, in the gi'eat majority of cases, suffers more than the leg ; and the explanation of those peculiarities is to be found in the hypothesis known as Broadbent's. According to this, bi- laterally associated movements are represented on both sides of the brain, and the closer the bilateral association the more nearly equal is the representation on the two sides of the brain. Thus it is well known that the two lower limbs are much more closely associated in their move- ments than the two upper. One arm is fre- VOL. I quently used quite independently of the other, while a movement of one leg without some participation in that movement by the other leg is comparatively uncommon, and of course in the habitual use of the lower limbs for purjooses of locomotion the association is a very close one. The same is true to even a greater degree of the movements of the trunk, for it is impossible for most people to move one side of the chest or abdomen without moving the other. Facial move- ments, also, are nearly always bilateral. The two sides of the forehead especially are very closely associated, the orbicularis palpebrarum less so, although some people find it impossible to close one eye without closing the other. In regard to the parts about the mouth, the association, although close, is not quite so close as that be- tween the two sides of the upper part of the face. Yet it is closer than between the two legs, and still more close than that Ijetween the two arms. Now, if we imagine a vessel to be occluded in such a position as to affect the face, arm, leg, and trunk areas or fibres equally, the arm on the opposite side will be most affected, the leg less affected, the face still less so, and the trunk scarcely at all, at all events in an ob^dous or permanent way. Pseudo-Bulbar Paralysis.—Similar considera- tions explain the phenomena of the condition known as pseudo-bulbar paralysis or double hemiplegia. In this condition swallowing and articulation are affected. The movements sub- serving those actions are strong in their bilateral association, and consequently, according to Broadbent's hypothesis, in their bilateral repre- sentation in the brain ; so that a lesion affecting one side of it, if it affects them in any noticeable degree, only does so slightly and temporarily. If, however, in addition to the lesion causing unilateral weakness we have superadded a lesion producing weakness of the opposite side, it will at once be seen that consideralile interference with these actions is not only likely but almost inevitable, so that with such a double lesion we have a condition similar in many respects to that produced by true bulbar paralysis. Paralysis ivith Sensory Disturbances.—Resinn- ing now consideration of the usual form of paralysis resulting from vascular rupture or vascular occlusion, viz. paralysis of one side of the face, body and trunk, such a paralysis may be purely motor. If, however, the area sub- served by the posterior cerebral artery be affected, anaesthesia of the paralysed side of the body, with affection of the special senses also on this side, may result, because of the affection of what is known as the sensory crossway lying in the posterior part of the internal capsule, the part supplied by the posterior cerebral artery. In such a condition hemianopsia may also be pres- ent, that is, blindness of the opposite halves of the field of vision, opposite, that is, to the lesion in the brain. And when we have hemianaesthesia 31