AORTA (THORACIC), ANEURYSM AND DILATATION OF 227 condition iw often spoken of as if it were peculiar to solid growth within the chest, but it occurs in aneurysm by no means very rarely. An aneurysm acts in precisely the same way as such a growth—it is in fact a tumour. The abdo- minal veins may show some fulness, which is rendered very evident when the j^aticnt coughs. Quite apart from anein-ysm, and in healthy individuals, a double arch of fine venous vari- cosity is often seen along the double costal arch. This arch of venules marks the sej^aration of the venous current upwards and downwards to the superior cava and inferior cava respectively. When there is obstruction superiorly there will be excess of blood passing downwards, and hence tlie fulness of the abdominal superficial veins. In a case of the writer's a fulness of the abdo- minal veins became marked, while the thoracic engorgement, which at one time had been intense, diminished. " Tracheal tugginr/" to be described undei- palpation, is occasionally quite distinct on in- spection when the patient raises his chin. Palpation.—If an aneurysm projects beyond the general surface of the chest it will certainly be seen to be the seat of pulsation, but only the liand can convey the impression afibrded by the powerful heave of the sac, which feels well-nigh irresistible in force so long as the heart remains vigorous. It is only too well known how such force, remittingly applied, can slowly destroy the hardest tissues composing the body that oppose its advance, and the agony the process implies to the patient is only too often experi- enced. Usually the seat of palpable pulsation is the front of the chest, and it is only rarely that an aneurysmal sac reaches the posterior aspect, bulging or corroding the ribs, but it quite eonnnonly corrodes the bodies of the vertebras, although we may fail to feel pulsation either back or front. Aneurysm is thus one of the things that obstinate pain in the back-bone should always suggest. These latter remarks of course apply to anoiu'vsms of the posterior portion of the arch or of the descending aorta. Towards the front of the chest the sternum cartilages and ribs offer feeble and therefore less painfiil resistance to the extension of the sac. The moment a tumour is produced a most valuable character pertains to it, namely, exjmn.- xile impibhe. When such a tumour is grasped between the fingers and thumb, these are felt to be separated with each systole of the heart. Sometimes a systolic thrill or thrills, systolic and diastolic, or almost continuous through both periods, can be felt over prominent aneurysmal sacs. Usually when there is a diastolic or double thrill the aortic valves have become incompetent, but the writer believes not always, at least he has felt such a continuous thrill when the incompetence of the valves was difficult to demonstrate post-mortem. In aneurysms of the ascending and transverse portions of the arch, a I more common palpation sign than tlirill is the peculiar shock indicative of and coincident with the closure of the semilunar valves with extra- ordinary force. Palpation, of coui-se, is employed to determine any difference there may be between the right and left carotids, radials, etc., to ascertain the position of the cardiac impulse, and to compare the force of this latter with the force of the aneurysmal impulse. The force of the latter being at least as great is a valuable sign of aneurysm. The aneurysmal sign that came recently into vogue—" tracheal tugging "—is elicited by pal- pation of a special kind, which consists in gently supporting the lower border of the cricoid car- tilage on each side with the forefinger and thumb, the patient's chin being elevated; presumably this sign is best developed in cases of aneurysm involving the transverse portion of the arch, but when it is present there is usually abun- dance of other evidence in favour of aneurysm. As already mentioned, " tracheal tugging " may be an inspection as well as a palpation sign. Percussion. — The dull area produced by aneurysm of the arch in the front of the chest at its upper part is characterised by a very definite distribution ; it crosses the median line and it reaches neither costo-acromial angle. It is thereljy at once distinguishable from lung dulness. In the immense majority of aneurysms of the arch this rule holds good, but as an instance of the exception that proves the rule, a case may be mentioned which was equally applicable for narration under inspection and palpation, and which illustrates how seemingly very odd occurrences may have simple explana- tions. A patient had a large pulsating didl area in the right mammary region under the right nipple, with its maximum intensity some four inches from the median line. Post-mortem examination revealed a large pear - shaped aneurysm coming off almost at right angles by a narrow neck from the right side of the first part of the arch. Such an aneurysm could not occasion the dull area descrilied above as char- acteristic of this disease in the arch. In thus referring to exceptions to rules opportunity- may be taken to remind the reader that apparently anomalous aneurysmal signs may depend upon the fact of more than one aneurysm being present. To return to the ordinary distril)ution of dul- ness in aneurysm of the arch. The degree of extension to right and left respectively vai'ics much, and in some cases the middle line is little more than distinctly crossed. As a whole, the dull area assumes a somewhat semilunar shape, and is usually separated from the area of cardiac dulness, but there may be a more or less narrow " neck " of dulness uniting them. It is obvious that the size of the aneurysm and the size of the dull area produced by it will not correspond, inasmuch as the dull area only indicates the