242 APHASIA patient's instructions for a draft will or to get him to execute a will immediately after the occurrence of an aphasic attack, or just after a relapse ; for under such circumstances the brain action is necessarily distm-bed in a greater or less degree. The medical attendant should be present when an aphasic makes a will, with the object of assisting, by his skilled knowledge and advice, the lawyer to ascertain the wishes and desires of the patient, and in order to satisfy himself so that he may be able to testify that the patient was, at the time ivhen the will tms made, mentally capable of making a will, that the instructions for the will were correctly elicited, and that the will was correctly executed. The lawyer should consult the medical attendant as to the mode of procedure (the best method of ascertaining the wishes and desires of the patient), the length of each examination, etc. I may further add that great patience, in some cases repeated examinations (for, as has been stated, the brain power of aphasic patients is easily exhausted), and the most scrupulous fairness and exactness in eliciting the facts and in drawing conclusions as to the significance of the facts, are absolutely essential in order to form a true and correct estimate of the patient's mental condition and of his will-making capacity. Further, it must be remembered that there are many sources of fallacy. For example, the recurring, emotional, or automatic utterances of patients affected with aphasia may easily be taken for intellectual expressions (propositions), whereas they may have no intellectual value whatever. Again, if the patient is able to answer simple questions by means of signs (pantomime), the physician may, not uimatu- rally perhaps, but far too hastily, conclude that the reasoning power and intellectual faculties are altogether unaffected. Aphemassthesia.—Want of power of word-perception ; word-blindness and word-deaf- ness. Aphemia..—Motor-vocal aphasia; speech- lessness, but not usually wordlessness. See Aphasia. Aphoriia>—Defective intonation; loss of voice. See Alcoholism {Motor Variations); Hypnotism ; Hysteria ; Larynx, Benign Growths of ; Larynx, Malignant Disease of ; Larynx, Neuroses of ; Malingering ; and Voice. Aphorta.—sterility. See Scrotum and Testicles, Diseases of ; and Sterility. Aphrasia.—Loss of power of forming a phrase; a form of Aphasia {q.v.). AphrodSsiaCS. — These are remedies which increase sexual desire or power. The term may be used to include not only drugs and other measures which act upon the sexual organs, upon neighbouring structures, especially the urinary tract, and upon the nervous system, but also tonic treatment of every kind, whether medicinal, hygienic, or dietetic. Enumeration. — The principal aphrodisiacs are—alcohol, camphor (at first), cannabis indica, castor and musk, damiana, nux vomica and strychnine, opium, phosphorus ; general tonics; a rich, especially a nitrogenous diet, and bodily and mental rest. Mode of Action and Uses.—Aphrodisiacs are not drugs to be used symptomatically or indisci'iminately. To stimulate sexual desire, for example, in a patient suffering from the effect of excessive venery, would prove a dangerous experiment. Every case of weakened sexual desire or power must be carefully ex- amined, to determine what causal conditions are at work, and treated accordingly. In all cases, the possibility of the symptom having some relationship to organic disease must be borne in mind. The part any aphrodisiac remedies may play in the treatment of a particular case must be gathered from a consideration of their various modes of action. Fresh air, an abundant and varied diet with plenty of fresh meat and some tonic, abstinence from severe muscular exertion, and from mental work and worry, all play an important part in treatment. Nux vomica and strychnine are perhaps the drugs most frequently used, not only on account of their general tonic properties, but on account of their special action on the spinal cord. Many substances which irritate the genito- urinary tract, especially substances belonging to the oleo-resin group, have an aphrodisiac effect; and cantharides, used cautiously, act in the same manner. Cannabis indica is largely used in the East. It stimulates the cortex and gives rise to dreams of a sexual character. It is apparently often combined with other drugs, such as cantharides, which produce a local effect on the urinary tract, and so refiexly stimulate the genital organs. Alcohol powerfully stimulates sexual desire, but at the same time weakens the sexual act, so that coitus is apt to be imperfect. Opium is not used as an aphrodisiac, but it is important to remember its effect in this way in treating the subjects of the morphia habit. Sexual desire in such patients, especially when they have been for some time under treatment, may be very strong, and as the power of self- control is greatly diminished, it is very im- portant that male patients should be attended by male nurses. Aphtha.—(1) Sore mouth, due to presence of oidiwni albicans; aphthous stomatitis; (2) aphtha epizootica, foot and mouth disease;