61 ADOLESCENT INSANITY inclined to the conclusion that the secondary dementia of adolescent insanity is pathologically allied to genetoiis idiocy, as it certainly is etiologically through heredity. Much secondary dementia I thus look on as what might be called postponed idiocy. There are links that connect the one form of mental enfeeblement with the other which may occur in every year of life, from birth up to adolescence. Every form of enfeeblement, congenital or adolescent, may have maniacal attacks superadded to it. The percentage of deformed palates is nearly the same in idiocy and adolescent insanity, this frequently indicating, where it exists, a certain bad quality and non-development of brain. To my mind the change in the brain cortex, through which cells that had, when normal, been the vehicle of high thought, keen emotion, vivid imagination, accurate memory, and power- ful volition become, when pathological, unfit to manifest any of these qualities, is the most remarkable and mysterious change in Nature next to that from life to death, and of itself marks out adolescent mania as the greatest and most important of all the developmental neuroses. Adolescent insanity has also this peculiarity, it occurs just before maturity. It is the last cortical developmental disease. Just when the organism is about to take on itself the burden of full reproductive capacity in addition to that of organic and mental life, it breaks down at the very highest point. Nature's law of the barrenness of a bad stock is thereby carried out, for dements, though not necessarily asexual or barren, are in any oi'ganised society non-repro- ductive. The Lesser Mental and Moral Morbid Changes of Adolescence.—There are a series of lesser mental and moral changes and per- versities that are liable to occur in adolescents of both sexes with hereditaiy weakness, short of mania or melancholia or technical insanity generally, that arc frequently much more diffi- cult to treat and often almost as distressing as the insanities, and which I believe to be due to the same hereditary and pathological causes, and to be of the same essential nature as in- sanity. They consist, in some cases, of stupidity and lethargy, so that the girl or lad ceases to care for or show intelligent curiosity in any- thing. Or they consist in an asocial develop- ment at this, normally, one of the most social of all ages. The youth ceases to mix with his friends, to play games, or to find pleasure in meeting his fellows. He shuts himself up, and his social instincts seem for the time paralysed. Or they take the form of a causeless aversion to father, mother, sister, or brother, intolerance of control by them, and utter disregard of their feelings. All this time he gets on well with strangers, who see nothing wrong. Or they take the form of " general incompatibility " of temper, so that the person gets on with no one, and is cantankerous and suspicious all round, losing situations, quarrelling with friends, and making enemies everywhere. Or they take the form of impracticability, with visionary schem- ing and want of common sense, of a mild para- noia. Or a frothy sentimental religionism de- velops itself, changing churches without reason, and taking always to new and striking modes of expressing their religious instincts. Or we have sudden immoralities contrary to the tenor of the former life. Or perverted sexual and reproductive trains of thought dominate the mind and afiect the conduct. All these, being- liable to occur as adolescent psychoses in heredi- tarily neurotic families, should certainly be looked on and treated from the medico-psycho- logical rather than from the moral and dis- ciplinary standpoints. Heredity and its eff'ects on brain alone explain such divergencies from the normal, mental, and social types. They cause enormous misery in families, their real nature and origin are commonly misunderstood^ and their kinship to mental disease is seldom thought of. The morbid mental change, when it takes the form of simply diminution of the volitional power, so that irresolution, fickleness, want of power to follow any kind of continuous work, "morbid laziness," and lack of energy all round, are the chief characteristics, is particularly apt to be misunderstood. I was once consulted about the case of a lady, who up to fourteen or fifteen had been as ordinary children, but who since that age had been the despair of her teachers and the skele- ton in the closet at home. While clever intel- lectually and not given to gross immorality of any sort, she had exhausted all the arts by which disobedience, lying, perversities of every kind, and outrageous unconventionalities of dress and conduct could break her parents' hearts. She seemed to be without aftection, except towards animals, tramps, and oddities generally. She always professed sympathy with the bad, the low, and the unfortunate. Re- spectability was an unpardonable offence to her. She was amazingly ingenious in her ways of " shocking" her parents and their friends by word and action; yet she was well read; she would pass muster among strangers for a month at a time as a clever, interesting, and original girl. She was about to marry a robust but respectable clodhopper when I was consulted about her. She did so, and had one or two children, and became apparently a careful mother and a frugal farmer's wife; but she was always eccentric and asocial, and never professed any affection for her parents. There are many such cases where the moral and mental " twist" seems to follow a " love affliir" or disappointment, b\it in whom the " love afilxir," the disappointment, and the sue-