435 BONE, DISEASES OF The most important indication is to evacuate the pus as early as possible, and institute drain- age to secure its continuous escape, at the same time preventing the entrance of any infection from without, i.e. all antiseptic precautions must be observed. So far as the suppuration under the periosteum is concerned, tlie above indica- tion is fulfilled by a limited incision, it may be with a local antesthetic, and the insertion of a rubber or glass drainage-tube. Kocher makes the opening with the thermocautery, and en- deavours to prevent the access of air to the suppurating area on the ground that oxygen rejuvenates the staphylococci. The making of a larger incision is indicated if the interior of the bone is to be explored by the trephine, gouge, or chisel. Many surgeons, especially of the French school, in view of the great predominance of primary suppuration in the marrow, recommend the opening up of the interior of the bone as a routine procedure. Possibly it is better to open marrow needlessly than not to do it when it is necessary. Exploring the marrow does not cause necrosis, and it may prevent it. Others prefer to abstain from opening into the marrow unless there is an indication of its necessity ; this may be at the time of incising the periosteal abscess, if there ai'e evidences of suppuration in the interior of the bone, i.e. fat droplets in the pus, perforation of the shell of the bone, and pus oozing from the latter, or, in the absence of these indications, on waiting and watching the progress of the disease, the persistence of the fever, and other symptoms of intoxication, indi- cate that there is likely to be an accumulation of pus in the interior of the bone. One is the less inclined to explore the medullary cavity in deeply seated bones, e.g. femur, because the operation is a more formidable one, and attended with considerable loss of blood. Free access cannot be obtained in extensive osteomyelitis of the pelvis, or of the femar, without a severe operation, and the making of a large wound which may be easily infected. There is more inclination to explore the marrow in superficial bones or segments of bones, e.g. tibia, lower end of humerus, parts of fibula, bones of forearm, because in these one is fairly certain of being able to thoroughly clear out purulent areas in the marrow without a com- plicated wound and much loss of blood. Kocher, Schede, Bergmann, Senn, all agree in confining their immediate medullary explorations to selected cases, and are inclined to the opinion that, emploj'ed as a routine method, it is capable of doing as much harm as good. It is also to l)e remembered that suppuration in the marrow is rarely met with as an actual collection of pus or abscess, more often as purulent infiltration, wliich has more chances of spontaneous recovery and absorption than an actual abscess. Cases which recover without trephining are fairly often met with; these do not prove that there was no lesion in the marrow, for the latter may be re- absorbed. According to Kocher, when the temperature does not fall after incision and drainage of the periosteal suppuration, one sliould rather infer the existence of a joint suppuration, or of a metastasis elsewhere, than that the continued pyrexia is due to a lesion in the marrow, because when the periosteal collec- tion is freely opened, the latter tends to be relieved by the escape of pus and toxic products into the external wound through minute canals in the bone. Where no such secondary suppuration is found to explain the pyrexia, one should tre- phine the bone and clear out the medulla. The consensus of opinion in this country is decidedly in favour of restricting the operation of opening up the medullary cavity to selected cases, rather than as a routine procedure. In tub Operation of Trephining the Bone and clearing out the marrow, the Esmarch's bandage should be omitted because of the risk of embolism and dissemination of infection; a tourniquet is not even required, as there is never any troublesome hajmorrhage. Whether there is a fluctTiating area or not, or wherever it is situated, one must remember the frequency with which the disease originates at the juxta-epi- pliysiary junction, and one should open the marrow there in the first instance with a small trephine. If pus is found, then additional open- ings may be made according to the extent of the lesion in the marrow, or one may convert the separate trephine holes into one open narrow gutter, with due care not to interfere with the integrity of the shaft. The manipulations inside the marrow must not be rough, for fear of fat embolism ; the scraping out of the marrow with a sharp spoon may be overdone. On the whole, when performed in suitable cases, necrosis is less common and less extensive after such opei'ations than without them. It is not to be expected, however, that opening the marrow will always prevent necrosis. The early or premature resection of the dis- eased shaft, with or witliout the epiphysis or epiphyses, is very exceptional. It is far better, as a rule, to wait, because one cannot prophesy the extent of the necrosis; the latter is largely a question of the virulence of the cocci. When, however, the suppuration is very abundant, the shaft is extensively bared and appears likely to die, if the bone is accessible and is one of two parallel ones, of which the other will maintain the length and rigidity of the limb segment during reformation, the shaft may be resected with advantage. If the epiphysis is bathed with pus and extensively separated it may be wiser to remove it. It is of great importance to evacuate all secondary suppurations in the overlying soft parts.