BLOOD, PHYSIOLOGY AND CLINICAL INVESTIGATION OF 409 heaped up in the blood until its percentage rises so high that the kidneys can no longer refrain from excreting it in abnormal quantity. Under ordinary conditions, then, the muscles prevent any marked increase in the amount of glucose in the blood, presuming that the liver is not sending out so nnich that there is an excess left over after the tissues have used up all that they require. Not only do the muscles and contractile tissues use up the sugar, but they also, like the liver, store it up in the form of glycogen, thus preventing in yet another way the overloading of the blood with glucose. But when we consider the large quantities of sugar that are absorbed, it becomes manifest that these means of disposal are not sufficient to keep the percentage normal, and so a certain amount of glucose is transformed into fat. Other constituents of the blood plasma, which may be formed in large amount, may have tlieir percentage kt^j^t low Ijy their rapid withdrawal through the kidneys, as, for example, urea. One of the best examples of an organ which exercises the property of selective affinity to a very marked degree is the mammary gland. The researches of Bunge and his pupils have recently taught us that ever)' animal secretes a milk most suitable for the needs of its young offspring. If the young animal require much lime it obtains it, although the percentage in the blood be very small. The mammary gland selects from the plasma what is requisite for the nutrition of the young organism. From the substances so picked out, by a marvellous process of elaboration and synthesis, the specific milk constituents are formed. This is not the place to speak of the role of proteids in metabolism, but with regard to the point at present under discussion, it is important to remember that although the amount of albuminous substances digested is so great, there is a remarkable constancy in their amount in the blood. For the building up of the young and the maintenance of the adult organism, these organic substances are always in request. When their amoimt in the food is diminished to such an extent that starvation arises, then the higher tissues live at the expense of the proteids of the lower ones. At any special time in the developmental life, when a particular organ requires special sustenance, it may derive it from the organic constituents of some other tissue. Miescher described a most remarkable instance of this in the growth of the ovaries in the salmon at the expense of particular nuiscles during the time when no food was being taken in. The form in wliich the proteid leaves the one organ to be transmitted by means of the blood to the other one may not be that in which it is stored up in the latter. The receiving organ may, and in many cases does, take up from the blood more than one constituent, and by mani- fold syntheses builds up the substances that it requires. For example, in the salmon the formation of vitellins in the ova goes on at the expense of the globulins derived from degener- ating muscles. Every organ stretches out its hands for its particular food requirements to the blood, and gives off to the same fluid what has been rendered useless and effete or what is required for some other tissue or organ. We have seen that the blood remains remark- ably constant with regard to the constituents necessarj' for the nutrition of the tissues; but perhaps in no particular is this constancy more marked than in the maintenance of its normal alkalinity. In order that each cell in the body may perform its functions, the alkalinity of the blood and the fluids derived from it must be kept up. One cannot say simply that the alkalinity is necessary for oxidation, because the carbonate or bi-carbonate in the blood will not aid oxidation to any marked extent. It is more as the carrier of the carbonic acid from the tissues that the carbonate is I'equired. The oxidation processes occur outside the blood by means of the tissues. Researches carried out some years ago showed how the organism re- sisted any tendency to alteration in the reaction of the blood. It was clearly demonstrated that mineral acids, on being given to omnivora or carnivoi-a, did not diminish its alkalinity, this being avoided by the tissues breaking down to furnish ammonia sufficient to neutralise the acid and so spare the alkali of the blood. In herbivora, where the protective action from the side of the tissues does not come into play, acids act as poisons. In certain forms of poisoning, where there is an increased breaking down of proteid with a rise in the amount of sarco- lactic acid, the ammonia derived from the tissues again steps in to spare the alkali of the blood. Before we go on to the study of the role that the cells of the blood play in vital processes, there is another important property of the serum which requires to be referred to, namely, the protection which it affords, to the organism under certain conditions, against the action of many bacteria and their products. A particular species or even an individual may be refractory to one particular infectious disease ; or the con- dition of immunity in a susceptible individual may be attained hy the introduction of the blood serum from an animal which has been rendered artificially immune to that disease. For example, it is the cell-free blood serum of animals rendered immune to tetanus which destroys the toxic substances produced by the tetanus bacillus. So also in the natural recovery from an infectious disease, there are formed in the body substances which are bactericidal to the specific organism of that disease, or which neutralise the poisonous pro-