183 ANEURYSM Stationary aneurysms are rare ; spontaneous cure still more so. Seats.—Tlie aneurysms may extend on to a dilated aorta, subclavian or carotid. Si/nijjtoms. — Pain about the right sterno- clavicular joint, undue dulness behind the manubrium and first space, excessive pulsation in the pre-sternal fossa, and perhaps a deep swelling here ; a systolic murmur and a diastolic shock, the murmur being conducted along the subclavian and carotid ; then come eftects of pressure on the recurrent, vagus, sympathetic, brachial plexus ; on one or both innominates or superior cava ; diminution and delay of radial and temporal pulses ; dyspna'a and dysphagia witli obvious displacement of the trachea and eesophagus; displacement of the heart down and out without hypertrophy ; protrusion of all bones around the sterno-clavicular joint, erosion of them, and free bulging beneath the skin. This forward course is common, but a tumour appears first just mesial to the sterno-mastoid. Death may be due to rupture externally, into the pleura, lung, trachea, a^sophagus, or to pressure on one or other of these canals. Hypo- static congestion and broncho-pneumonia occur from pressure on the vagus or tracheal obstruction. Diagnosis of Aneurysms at the Boot of the IVeck.—Such aneurysms may spring from the root of the carotid, the fii'st part of the sub- clavian, the innominate, or the arch of the aorta; or may involve several of these parts. It is often impossible to make an exact diagnosis. A skiagram and the screen may conceivably help. The points to which chief attention must be paid are :— Thf point of first appearance of the tumour.— A carotid aneurysm appears between the heads of the sterno-m;istoid, tending forwards beneath the inner head ; a subclavian beneath and ex- ternal to the clavicular head ; an innominate in the pre-sternal fossa, tending up and out behind the sterno-clavicular joint; an aortic sac may occupy any one of these positions. Form.—All are either globular or ovoid. If they have a long diameter it is vertical in the carotid, nearly transverse in the subclavian, vari- able in the innominate, which may extend along either the carotid or subclavian, and usually vertical in aortic. Tlie aortic and innominate arise within the thorax, so the fingers get no sensation of a sac narrowing below ; in the cai'otid and possibly in the subclavian this idea may be gained. Evidence of a large tumour in the media- stinum, e.g. pulsation and dulness in the second and third right spaces, is nuich in favour of aortic as opposed to innominate. Bruit is usually conducted best along the artery involved ; but in the innominate it may be conducted unequally along its two branches. It is therefore of little value. Pulse.—The pulse wave reaches the peripheral branches of the artery, in the root of wliich an aneurysm is situate, later than on the sound side. If not detected by the finger, this retarda- tion may be shown by tracings sinudtaneously recorded. The tracing on the affected side sliould show the peculiarities of the aneurysmal pulse. Lessened volume and even loss of pulse are not characteristic of aneurysm. Even on paper various states of affairs may be arranged with the aid of an aortic sac placed at one spot or another, of which it would be difficult to foretell the exact result upon the pulse. But an aneurysm of the ascending aorta should delay all the pulses equally, i.e. have no detect- able effect upon the two radials. An innominate aneurysm should delay and give aneurysmal characters to both right radial and temjDoral pulses. An aneurysm of the aortic arch should delay the left radial pulse, and so forth. Pressure Signs.—These must be carefully con- sidered, and a conclusion drawn as to which aneurysm is most likely to produce them all. Tracheal-fufi.—This indicates an aortic aneu- rysm. Treatment.—Non-operative treatment should be tried. Then needling, coupled with com- pression of the common carotid. This failing, simultaneous ligature of the right carotid and subclavian arteries should be done, unless one is already impervious. Of late years this liga- tui-e has met with a large measure of success. 'Vhe subclavian has almost always been tied in its third part. Aneurysms of the Lower Limb Below the bifurcation of the popliteal aneu- rysms are rare, even including arterial ha-ma- tomata and aneurysms in the production of which injury takes a very large share ; and such constitute the large majority here. Dorsal Arteky.—Ednunids could find only six apparently spontaneous aneurysms. The Plantar Arteries are very rarely affected, and only as the result of injury. These aneu- rysms and hfematomata should be excised. The Tibial and Peroneal Arteries may be wounded, torn by contusions, or lacerated in fractures. A few spontaneous aneurysms, usually following some strain, are recorded : I and a few seem to have been due to embolism. Hivmatoma from womid is most frequent in the lower third ; from fracture in the uppei- and middle thirds. Here, as elsewhere, the immediate dift'use luematoma is much more dangerous than the circumscribed, which forms slowly but luay ultimately threaten the life of the part. Both, fortunately, are rare. They closely simulate deep abscess. Aneurysms arising deep in the front or back of the leg cause at first only doubtful symptoms ' —pain, cramp, impaired function — with deep indefinite swelling. In such a case, however, Delbet heard a murmur distinctly and found