83 AIR, EXAMINATION OF Jan. 6-2 July. 4-0 Feb. March. April. May. June. 5-6 5-6 4-7 4-1 5-6 Aug. 10-2 Sept. 11-3 Oct. 9-7 Nov. 8-8 Dec. 7-0 Lewis and Cunningham consider the cause of the seasonal change in the amounts of carbonic acid to be the ventilation of the soil, and that this change is an index of the degree in which emanations escape from the soil into the atmo- sphere at different times of the year. The sudden increase in August is coincident with the high rainfall. According to these observers, the rain acting on a finely-textured, loamy soil, such as is found in Calcutta, closes the pores of the soil and prevents the ventilation going on. Hence the fall in spring is due, not to diminished production, but to increased escape of the car- bonic acid into the atmosphere. The relation of the changes in composition of tlie groinid air and incidence of cholera is striking. November, April, and August are the months of medium, maximum, and minimum cholera prevalence. Both in Buda-Pesth and in Edinlnirgh there is a marked relation between the rise of the amount of carbonic acid in the ground air and epidemic diarrha'a of children. Air-borne Diseases.—Diseases in which the infection is believed to be carried by the atmospheric air : such are believed to be the maladies of which the causal organisms are capable of retaining their vitality and patho- genetic properties even in the dry state {e.g. diphtheria, erysipelas, epidemic cerebro-spinal meningitis). Typhoid fever and tuberculosis are doubtfully air-borne. Air-Embolism. — Obstruction to the circulation due to the entrance of air-bubbles into a vessel. It is probably a much rarer occurrence than used to be believed. The dis- covery (post-mortem) of gas in the blood cannot be looked upon as sufficient proof of its exist- ence, for a gas-producing micro-organism may explain its presence. See Lungs, Vascular Disorders of ; Puerperium, Pathology ; and Veins, Diseases of. Airol.—Bismuth iodogallate ; a substitute for iodoform. Air-Passagfes. See Nose, Foreign Bodies ; Trachea, Affections of. Aix-ia-Chapeiie. See Balneology (Gerrimny). Aix - ies - Bains. See Balneology i^Vranec). Akyanopsia. — Blue - blindness. See Colour Vision. Alalia.—Inal)ility to utter words, especially from disease or injury of the vocal apparatus. AlaSSiO. See Therapeutics, Health Re- SOR'i's {The Riviera). Albargin.—A light, yellowish powder, easily soluble in water ; a comjDound of silver nitrate with gelatose ; useful in gonorrhoea for its non-irritant qualities, combined with great depth of action and its bactericidal properties .• 2 per cent to 5 per cent solutions (as urethral injections) have been used. Albinism. /S'eeSKiN; Choroid, Diseases OF ; Iris and Ciliary Bodies ; and Leprosy. Albule. See Balneology {Italy). Albumen or Albumin. See En ZYMEs ; PiiYsi()i.(.)(;v ; Urine. Albuminoids.—Modified proteids. See Diet and. Physiology. Albuminometry.—The estimation of the ipiantity of albumen present in albuminous urine. See Urine. Albuminuria. See Urine; also Chil- dren, Clinical Examination of ; Gout ; Life Insurance ; Nephritis ; Pregnancy, Affec- tions AND Complications ; etc. Albumoses.—Albuminoid bodies pro- duced in the process of transformation (during digestion) of other albuminoids into peptones. Albumosuria. See Urine. Alcohol (Syn. : Spiritus Vini). Varieties ...... 83 Physiology ...... 85 Toxic Effects ...... 87 Morbid Changes in Alcoholism . . 87 Clinical Uses ...... 88 See also Antipyretics ; Aseptic Treatment ; Brain, Surgery of ; Breath ; Colour Vision {Acqiiired Colour Blindness) ; Epilepsy ; Heart, General Pathology ; Insanity, Etiology of ; Liver, Diseases of ; Liver, Acute Hepatitis ; Nephritis ; Nerves, Neuritis ; Temperature ; Tetany ; Toxicology {Organic Poisons); etc. Ethylic Alcohol is obtained from absolute al- cohol by the action of sodium or caustic lime. It has also been derived sjaithetically from coal, and even built up from its elements. In the pure anhydrous form it is a hygroscopic inflam- mable fluid of sp. grav. 0-80625, of vap. D U6133, boiling at 78°'3 C, viscous at-100 , and freezing at - 130°. For commercial pur- poses it is derived from starches and sugai's by fermentation, distillation, and rectification. The by-products of this process are difficult to re- move, fusel oil always occurring in the distillate from starches as a mistiu'e of amylic and other alcohols. Fatty acids and ethereal salts may also remain, and a small amount of furfurol, a