ASPHYXIA 305 thereafter the operator should raise his body slowly so as to relieve the pressure on the patient's back while still leaving his hands in position. This forward and l>ackward movement must he repeated every four or five seconds. In other words, the operator should sway backwards and forwards slowly on his arms twelve to fifteen times a minute, without any marked pause between the movements. This must be kept up for at least half an hour until the natural respiratory movements are resumed. If they tend to fail again artificial respiration must be resorted to as before. One person being thus engaged in carrying out artificial respiration, others should apply hot flannels, if available, to the body and limbs of the patient, and a hot- bottle may be placed at the feet. No attempt should be made to remove the wet clothing from the body or to give any restorative by the mouth until natural breathing has recommenced. This method, while not being in many instances suitable for aniesthetic emergencies, has un- doubtedly very great advantages in cases of drowning. It is so simple as to be easily undei'- stood and applied by any one—even when single- handed. It can be employed anywhere, and no preliminary manipulation is necessary. The mouth and air-passages become emptied of water and mucus, and the tongue falls forwards automatically. There is no appreciable fatigue involved, for the muscular exertion required is simply wliat is necessary to sway the body in a kneeling position backwards and forwards, slowly, about twelve times per minute. Some care should be exercised to avoid putting too much pressure on the ribs of old people. The efficiency of this method has been shown by means of the spirometer to be greater than that of any other. The results were as follows (the same subject being tested throughout) :—■ Natural respiration, air expii-ed per minute, 455 cc. Silvester's method, air expired per minute, 178 cc. Marshall Hall's method, air expired per minute, 254 cc. Howard's method, air expired per minute, 295 cc. Schafer's method, air expired per minute, 520 cc.—which thus is nearly double that expired by any other artificial means.] The Circulation during Artificial Respiration. —In deep asphyxia the arterial blood pressure is low, and the pulmonary circulation gorged. During tlie expiratory movements the increase of the pressure within the chest aff"ects the heart and vessels as well as the lungs, and tends to force on some of the blood into the arteries. Dvn-ing the inspiratory movement reflux is pre- vented by the valves, and in this way we get an VOL. I onward movement of blood, while the emptying of the heart cavities and the alternate filling relieves their paralytic distension. All methods of artificial respiration thus provide to a certain extent for artificial circulation as well, but it is possible to help this l)y pressure specially directed to the heart. This may be by com- pressing it by a hand pushed imder the ribs at the epigastrium, or by using, in the interval of the slower movements of respiration, more rapid rhythmic pressure on the prajcordia. Adjuvants to artificial respiration in resuscita- tion.—(1) In almost all the directions given for the resuscitation of persons from drowning, and of apparently still-born children, tiie use of the warm bath is recommended. This practice is, nevertheless, so much against the available scientific evidence, that it is questionable whether it deserves its empirical repute. The experi- ments of Edwards, Brown-Sequard, ;ind Marshall Hall show that more prolonged asphyxia can be survived at lower temperatures down to about 60° F. The temperature of the animal does not of course sink to that of the surrounding medium, and the experiments seem to show that the depression which occurs is advantageous. While, therefore, the advantage of the warm bath M'hen the respiration has been established is undoubted, our first efforts in resuscitation must be directed to the artificial respiration. The argument is not of course to be extended to exclude the pre- vention of further heat loss. (2) Other adjuvants at our disposal are the various methods of applying stimuli to the skin or mucous mem- branes, such as the slapping, in childi'en, the rubbing of the face with a dry towel, the tick- ling of the pharynx or nostrils, or the use of ammonia or other volatile agents. All of these methods depend on the reflex activity of the nervous system, and though they may shorten the period of incomplete respiration they can hardly be relied upon when the organic reflexes are so deeply sunken as to call for artificial imitation. (3) When the heart is flagging or almost stopped, a pad or sponge dipped in boil- ing water should be applied to the prajcordia. Whether the heat is able, through the chest- wall, to stimulate the cai'diac muscle directly, 1 or whatever mode the action may take, there is no doubt as to the efficiency of the method, which is specially useful in some cases of chloro- form an.nesthesia. The difficulty of explaining the scald is less than that of reconciling the relatives to a death under the anajsthetic for a, perhaps, trivial operation. The question, Ho^v lon<j are efforts at resuscita- tion to he continued ? does not admit of a simple answer. Unless the heart is beating, however feebly, it is probably \iseless to make any effort unless in the new-born child, when it may be worth while to try the effect of rhythmic com- pression of the heart region. In other cases, I unless the heart-beats improve in force and 20