ANAESTHETICS—ETHER 151 etlior ill producing initial an;usthesia by the American methods, whereas witli " Clover " one ounce or less suffices. Points in favour of Ether and against Chloroform.—Without going into a detailed or •statistical discussion of the relative danger of chloroform and ether, I may mention certain facts which to my mind tell very strongly in favour of ether. If we examine the records of deaths under ether, we find that, with very few exceptions, they occur in patients exhausted by disease, and at the fag end of life; indeed, a very large propor- tion of such deaths occur in abdominal obstnic- tion where the patient is in extremis. The patients die, whilst under the influence of ether, from the extremity of exhaustion, not directly and purely from the anajsthetic. If we exami?ie records o f deaths from chloroform, what do we find 1 Deaths of healthy people, young and old. Deaths either before, or during, or sometimes after the termination of trivial opera- tions, tooth-drawing, reduction of dislocation, passive motion of stiff joints, operations on the eye, and such like, deaths unquestionably due to the anaesthetic. Hewitt gives an analysis of 210 chloroform fatalities ( = 109 collected by the committee of the Royal Medical and Cliirurgical Society, and 101 collected by Kappeler). Of these, 16 were in reduction of dislocation ; 9 in examination for injuries (including putting up fractures); 16 in operations on the eye; 7 in forcible straightening of joints; 8 in application of escharotics; 7 in opening abscesses and sinuses; 18 in removal of teeth; 5 in removal of toe nail : in all 79, or more than one-third in what may be considered to be minor operations in comparatively healthy persons. Also 102, nearly half, were between the ages of sixteen and forty-five. If we turn to Hewitt's analysis of 27 collected deaths from ether, what do we there find ? Twenty-four in patients suffering from "pre-existing morV>id state," or from affections " producing extreme exhaustion " ; 2 in moderately good health, 1 of whom died from vomited matters entering the trachea, and 1 imperfectly reported. Take again narrow escape from, death, alarms from suspended animation. I will only appeal to my own experience. First, the fact I have already named, that in the two or three years preceding my adoption of ether I had in my jirivate practice six cases of serious alarm in cases under chloroform. In the twenty years of my use of ether I have not had six such alarms. Moreover, in my casual visits to the operating theatres of the Leeds Infirmary 1 have, during the last six or eight years, witnessed at least six cases in which, during an operation, artificial respiration had to be employed to restore a patient who had been amcsthetised by chloroform. I liave no particular recollection of witnessing any similar alarm in any case under ether. This in a hospital in which ether is much more extensively used than chloroform. Another important point in favour of ether is this, that, after the patient is fully under the amesthetic, consciousness of pain lags consider- ably behind returning mental consciousness, and this interval becomes longer towards the end of a prolonged etherisation. So much is this the case that I have known a patient converse during the insertion of stitches at the end of an operation for removal of the breast. This character of etherisation is of great value in extraction of teeth. If the ether is wisely administered and the inhalation continued three or four minutes after complete antesthesia, so that the patient is " charged up, so to speak, with a considerable quantity of ether before the operation is commenced," a dentist may often have ten consecutive minutes for removal of teeth. This same character of etherisation is of great value in operations for cleft palate, and, in fact, when combined with the position of the head hanging down at the edge of the operating- table, it converts a difficult and fatiguing opera- tion into a comparatively easy one. Then with regard to very young children. Every surgeon will be familiar with the fact that the moment a child begins to " come round " from chloroform it seems to come in- stantly and without notice to full consciousness of pain, and that often, when the child is appa- rently in deeji chloroform sleep, the first touch of the knife will bring it back to screaming and acute sense of pain. Whereas under ether, we know when the cliild is anaesthetic, and we have ample notice when the aniijsthesia is wearing oft'. For this reason I now use ether, even for infants, in a manner which I shall refer to later. Why has not Ether Universally won a Position as the Routine Anaesthetic?—See- ing, then, that for people in sound health ether is practically free from risk, whereas healthy people seem subject to as great a risk of fatal accident under chloi'oform as those who are worn down by disease, how comes it that ether has not universally won its position as the routine ana'sthetic, chloroform being reserved for excep- tional cases in which siaecial reasons justify its excepti(mal use ? It is my belief that five main factors are re- sponsible for this state of aftairs. 1. That a bulky apparatus is needed. 2. That modern Clover's ether machines are often faulty in construction. 3. That the satisfactory administration of ether "tuto, cito, et jucunde," is a highly-skilled art, and needs to be taught and learned. 4. That ether is supposed to be exti'cmely un- pleasant to the patient. 5. That ether is supposed to be frequently responsible for fatal bronchitis, more so than chloroform, and that the deaths from this soui'ce are an adequate set-oft' to the very frequent