APPENDICITIS 248 Constipation is tiie rule, though occasionally an attack may set in with diarrhoea Nausea and Vomitim/.—In the great majority of cases the pain is followed by nausea and per- haps vomiting; this is often very severe, but usually soon passes off after one or two retching fits. Vomiting, if continued, is a very serious symptom. When the vomited matter looks like coffee grounds the case is always unfavourable, for this is an evidence of general septic infection and of profound blood changes. These are the cases where under ether this vomit is apt to produce a septic pneumonia or bronchitis. Fever.—Elevation of temperature soon follows the pain and is always present in the early stages of the disease. Except in cases of gan- grene of the appendix, an initial rigor is rare; the fever in mild cases never runs above 102", but in more severe cases reaches 104°-105° ; in children it not unusually starts out with 102°-103-5°. A continually increasing tempera- ture after the second day should give rise to grave apprehensions, and point to the necessity of considering the advisability of an early operation. In some rare cases the temperature is uoi'mal; this is more likely to occur where there is a general purulent peritonitis; if with the low tempera- ture there is a rapid pulse and respiration, immediate operation is indicated ; a rapid pulse is always a serious symptom, that is, a pulse over 120. Richardson of Boston states that in all cases of appendicitis with suppuration, if the blood be examined, leucocytosis will be found. Local Conditions.—On inspection of the abdo- men in the early stage, nothing abnormal is to be seen, but later, when septic paralysis of the bowels sets in, the abdomen becomes distended and the subcostal hollow becomes prominent and rounded, and there is general tympanites. The tenderness is always greatest at M'Burney's point, midway between the anterior superior spine and the umbilicus — very often there is great rigidity of the abdominal muscles on the right side; this is very characteristic in cases of perforation with sudden extravasation. Pressure over the region is very painful, and the tender- ness often extends to other parts of the abdo- men. If tenderness is felt in the right lumbar region, it is indicative of an inflamed ajjpendix situated posteriorly having a direction upwards. Tumour.—A distinct tumour cannot always be made out, but there may be a sense of resist- ance deep down or an ill-defined induration in the right iliac region. If a tumour forms, it is well-defined, hard, and situated in the neigh- bourhood of a line drawn from the umbilicus to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. In many cases no tumour forms at all; these are the cases where a perforation occurs without any previous limiting inflammatory area, and the contents of the bowel are emptied into the general peritoneal cavity, giving rise to a most virulent form of peritonitis. In many cases the trouble is limited to the interior of the appendix at first, and there is no external evidence of a tumour. In all long-continued cases we are likely to have a tumour mass—there are cases where a tumour may exist, and yet it is situated too deeply to be distinctly made out. Position.—In most cases of appendicitis the dorsal decubitus with the right leg drawn up is the most comfortable position; the patient will tell you that he is unable, on account of the in- crease of the dragging pain, to lie on his left side. Rectal Examination. — It is always well to make an examination of the pelvis through the rectum, for if the appendix hang over the brim of the pelvis one can always get tenderness, and if there be an abscess in the pelvis it can always be felt by rectal examination. When tlie appendix is inflamed and in the pelvis, painful micturition, retention, and tenesmus are apt to occur. In most cases, however, nothing can be made out early by a rectal examination. Palpation of the Appendix.—It is possible in early cases, and cases of chronic and recurrent appendicitis, to palpate the appendix; this has been pointed out by Dr. Geo. Edebols of New York. Many assert they can recognise the appendix even when healthy—when enlarged and thickened, they have no difficulty in identi- fying it. Progress of the Case.—In the majority of cases recovery is the rule, though some of these may succumb to a svibsequent attack. A large number go on to the formation of abscess, which if not relieved may rupture and cause a general peritonitis. A certain number develop a general peritonitis almost from the first (Fulminating). In cases which tend to recover, the tenderness and pain begin to diminish at the end of the second day, the temperature also falls and vomiting ceases early. There may be tender- ness, pain, and some fever for a week or more, but the case gradually gets better and the countenance assumes a less anxious look. A tumour may persist for some time, but this gradually gets smaller and less tender until finally it disappears altogether. Subse- quent attacks in such cases are characterised by the reappearance of the tumour. Very often there is no tumour to be felt in the recurrent cases, nothing but the initial vomiting, severe and sudden pain with muscular rigidity, to indicate the attack; in such cases the inflammation is confined to the appendix itself and to the peritoneum covering it. Should the case not he relieved by operation, and go on to general peritonitis, the pain which was confined to the right iliac fossa now extends to the whole abdomen, the muscles of the abdomen become very rigid, vomiting continues unabated, the vomited matter being ftecal in