ATROPHY 322 affected. (6) When the nerve-root was divided on the distal side of the ganglion, the peripheral end underwent simultaneous degeneration out to the periphery ; the central end remained unaltered. The explanation is that the cells in the posterior root ganglion exercise a trophic iniiu- ence (1) on the sensory fibres coming from the periphery, and i (2) on the ascending sensory fibres in the cord as far up as the medulla. The exact nature of this " trophic influence " is still unknown. Varieties.—Atrophies are usually classified as congenital or acquired, physiological or pathological, general or local. The term " con- genital atrophy" is an inaccurate and mislead- ing one, as the conditions described are really examples of arrested growth, and are dependent on some perversion of innervation or obstruction to the blood-supply during development. A. Physiological Atrophy.—There is no more interesting study than the changes which the system undergoes in passing from the state of maturity to that of old age. These changes are regulated by a general law in physiology, which indicates that all organs attain their maximum of development at the period when their functions are most exercised, and subse- quently decline as their functions cease to be required in the economy. The influence of diminished vital forces, as well as diminished functional activity, on the structures of the various organs and tissues, is an important and far-reaching one, and a study of the facies and bodily and mental movements of an old man form a striking object-lesson that "all cells are doomed to perish by the slow but unerring operation of natural causes inseparable from their nature and coeval with their birth." When the forces of disassimilation attain an in- creasing preponderance over those of assimila- tion, nutrition is diminished in proportion, and atrophy ensues. The resulting changes may be briefly summarised as follows :— 1. The proportion of Jluid in each organ and tissue is diminished, the tissues tending to con- densation. This is well seen in the muscles (c/. the flesh of a chicken with that of a " boiling fowl"), subcutaneous tissues, arterial system, brain, and other organs. 2. Glandular ac^'-yiiyprogressivelydiminishes, e.g. the skin, thyroid, and various internal secre- tions. This accounts for the impaired digestive capacity of later life. 3. The elasticity of certain tissues disappears, notably the skin, muscular and arterial system. The flaccid and wrinkled skin of old age depends on its loss of power of accommodating itself to the size and figure of the parts its covers. 4. The muscular system, perhaps as a result of the condensation before referred to, loses tone, and as a result we find the various functional disorders of the heart, bladder, and other muscular tissues that are commonly met with { as age advances. 5. Associated with the diminished secretory activity there is an increased functional activity of the absorbent system, evidenced by the hollow cheeks, sunken eyes, and the degree of general emaciation incident to that period of life. 6. The nervous system takes a prominent part in the retrogressive change. The garrulity of ' old persons, for example, may be regarded as an | atrophy of memory. The general condensation of tissue previously referred to is well seen in |j the brain and cord, but it is impossible to say how far the neuro-muscular changes referred to are in any way causal of the other conditions mentioned. Apart from the atrophy associated with old age, other examples of physiological atrophy occur. Of these the most pronounced are the atrophy of the thymus in early life, and, in adults, the involution of the uterus after parturition. B. Pathological Atrophy.—Whatever may be the real nature of the atrophic change which constitutes the natural process of decrepitude, decay, and death, it is a process only too seldom seen. The " age that melts in unperceived decay" is compai'atively rare, owing to the ravages of the numerous diverse diseases to f which man is liable, and which furnishes us i with so many instances of premature decrepitude or pathological atrophy. This may be a general or a local condition, the nature being similar in either case. Nature.—Atrophy consists in the diminution in size and number of the proper tissue elements, with increase of the interstitial connective tissue, a fibrous degeneration. A partial obliteration of blood-vessels frequently occurs in the process, and this further aggravates the atrophic change. Pigmentary changes are frequent, more especi- ally in nerve and muscle cells. Fatty changes are also present in the liver, kidney, heart, or j other muscle, and other alterations of the j character of the protoplasm, evidenced by their j altered staining reactions. These changes are usually most pronounced in the more highly specialised part of the cell, that is, the nucleus and its neighbourhood. General atrophy or wasting is a familiar clinical picture arising from many diseased states, per- ; haps the most typical illustration being seen in j cases of long-standing malignant disease in some i part of the alimentary canal, or in cases of tuberculosis. From whatever cause arising, | definite atrophic changes are seen in most of j the organs and tissues of the body. The fatty | and muscular tissues are first affected, then j follow the blood and blood-forming organs, more j especially the bone marrow, the nervous and j bony systems being the last to show evidence of the atrophic change. It is important to note j that in addition to the numerous cases of general I