ANEURYSM 182 Course and Symptoms.—Carotid aneurysms usually go steadily and even rapidly on to rup- ture—externally, into the trachea or oesophagus —unless death is caused earlier by asphyxia or by cerebral embolism. Stationary aneurysms are not very uncommon in this region, but spontaneous cure is rare. As the tumour enlarges it extends up the neck, displacing and compressing suri'ounding structures. Its form is ovoid, its axis parallel to the sterno-mastoid. The larynx and trachea are pushed to the opposite side and flattened by degrees; the oesophagus suffers similarly, as also the recurrent laryngeal. Thus are produced dyspnoea and dysphagia, the former being usually the more severe. These structures may form part of the wall of the sac; as may all the muscles around. Cough and hoarseness are fre- quent. The jugular vein and its tributaries are flattened, and cease to carry blood ; collateral veins show undue fulness. The effects of pres- sure on the nerves of the cervical and brachial plexuses and on the sympathetic may be recog- nised. Attacks of vertigo, fainting, dimness of vision, hemiplegia, and other cerebral symptoms may occur spontaneously or on handling the sac. The bruit may be a constant annoyance. Diagnosis.—The common difficulties met with must be solved upon the lines indicated in the paragraph where Pulsating Goitre is considered. Blood cyst of the thyroid yields first blood- stained fluid and then fresh blood when it is tapped ; it moves with the larynx unless ad- herent. A loop low down on the artery has simulated aneurysm. Treatment.—The condition of the opposite carotid pulse should be known. Non-operative treatment—especially rest, diet, and iodide of potassium—should be carefully tried; for any method inducing gradual cure will be more likely to avoid cerebral troubles than those which suddenly deprive the brain of its blood supply. If proximal compression can be applied —either towards the spine and muscles, or by seizing the carotid between the finger and thumb—it should be employed. Every care should be taken in using this method to avoid mechanical disturbance of clot in the sac. Needling may be used alone or with compression. Proximal ligature comes next. It is a serious measure. The mortality has been 25 per cent. On tightening the ligature dangerous syncope may result. The patient may pass from anjes- thesia into fatal coma. Opposite hemiplegia may supervene at once, in a few hours, or after days, weeks, or even months: it may be accompanied by blindness on the same side. Convulsions may ensue in the more acute cases, and death is the usual result. Minor signs of disturbance of the cerebral circulation are common. Pulmonary and laryngeal symptoms—dyspnoea, cough, pneumonia — have frequently caused death. They have been explained by injury to the vagus and its recurrent branch and by sepsis. These grave complications have occurred in 20 per cent of the cases. Immediate results are due to cerebral angemia, and imply imperfect supplj' through the other cerebral arteries. Syncope may pass oft' and leave no trace. Hemiplegia coming on after recovery from the immediate eff'ects of the ligature may be ex- plained by spreading thrombosis in cases in which blindness occurs—the ophthalmic artery being thrombosed before the origin of the cerebrals is reached. This thrombosis is doubt- less favoured by a feeble collateral circulation. But in the majority of cases, hemiplegia is prob- ably due to embolism of clot swept from the bifurcation of the carotid by blood running from the external into the internal carotid. Throm- bosis, after aseptic ligature, is absent or very limited ; it is thought that continued throm- bosis, soft clot, and detachment of particles are connected with a mild, non-suppurative infection. Suppuration of the sac has been frequent, usually from septic ligature ; yet not always, for it may occur before treatment, or months after healing. Recurrent pulsation has been not infrequent after proximal ligature, though the artery has no branches. Distal Ligature of the terminal branches, combined with proximal of the trunk, has been suggested to prevent this and embolism. Unless the sac were small and favourably situated, the operation would be difficult and the sac exposed to much disturbance. Distal ligature (Brasdor) alone is the treatment of aneurysm of the root of the vessel. The mortality has been heavy, but chiefly septic. E.rcision of carotid aneurysms and hajma- tomata has been practised, the reasons being recurrent pulsation, error in diagnosis, and im- possibility of reaching trunk below except through the aneurysm. Good recovery followed in every instance. As in other cases, the question as to how often this method should be employed is now under consideration. Some hold that the risk of embolism would be reduced by removal of the sac, and this is likely enough if the roots of the internal and external carotids are tied. Arterio - venous communications, almost in- variably direct and due to stabs, have formed between each of the carotids and the neighbour- ing great veins. The symptoms are usual, with the addition of constant annoyance and disturbed sleep from the bruit, and of various symptoms due to disturbance of the cerebral circulation. If treatment is required, it can only be ligature above and below the wound in the artery. Aneurysm of the Innominate. — Causes.— These aneurysms are among the more frequent of surgical aneurysms. They are among the largest known. No arterial hsematomata or arterio - venous communications are recorded.