ADRENAL GLANDS 73 observed in twenty cases; it further appeared from an analysis of these observations that the adrenal bodies were less susceptible in early life than later on. Lardaceous Disease.—The adrenal bodies are not infrequently affected ; thus in twenty- one cases of lardaceous disease the adrenal orlands were involved in nine. It is seen in the vessels of the cortex. It has no clinical signifi- cance. S1MP1.E Tumours of the Adrenal Glands.— Adenomata, composed of encapsuled collections of adrenal cells, are the only simple tumours that are met with under ordinary circumstances. Several forms of adenoma are met with. (1) Small encapsuled nodules projecting from the cortex ; they arc frequently multiple. On section they are yellowish-white, and must not be mistaken, as they sometimes are, for discrete caseous tubercles. These small adenomata are indistinguishable from accessory adrenal bodies embedded in the cortex of the main gland; possibly this is what they really are. They are also superficially like the irregularities not in- frequently seen on the outside of adrenal bodies in advanced life, but differ from them in having a fibrous capsule. (2) Larger single adenomata arising from the cortex and reaching on an average the size of a walnut (struma lipomatosa suprarenalis, Vir- chow). Occasionally they are bilateral. They are composed of fatty adrenal cells and are derived from the cortex. The columns of cells are separated from each other by delicate con- nective tissue trabecular, in which blood-vessels are found. As the result of increase in the amount of this fibrous stroma, the appearance of a fibro-adenoma may be produced, and in these rare cases hyaline degeneration of the fibrous tissue may occur. The adrenal cells, which are ordinarily fatty, may soften down, and a pseudo-cyst thus be formed. Hajmor- rhage from the vessels sometimes occurs, and may give rise to a malignant-looking tumoiu'; it is highly probable that some cases formerly described as sarcoma, without any secondary growth or invasion of adjacent organs, were hsemorrhagic adenomata. LetuUe has specially drawn attention to diflPuse h;emorrhagic adeno- mata arising from the cortex, which are in reality innocent tumours, but are often erro- neously regarded as sarcomata. These large adenomata are the only ones of any clinical significance. (3) LetuUe has described multiple pigmented adenomata in the cortex ; the cells are not fatty. He observed three cases, all in patients with plithisis. (4) Adenomata arising from the medulla of the adrenal body are rare. They are vascular : the capillaries running between the columns of adenomatoiis cells give the growth an alveolar appearance. There may be large multinuclear cells among the cells of the adenoma, probably due to union of pre-existing adrenal cells. Other simple tumours, such as fibroma, angi- oma, lymphangioma, ganglionated neuroma, and dermoid formations, have in isolated instances been met with. Cysts are very rare in the adrenal bodies; they are small, and are probably generally due to liquefaction of adenomata. In exceptional instances cysts may result from old haemor- rhages or from hydatids. Dr. Latham has re- corded a case where a dermoid cyst of the ovary infected by implantation some of the other organs in the abdominal cavity, among them one suprarenal body. Simple Tumours arising in Accessory Adrenal Bodies or in Adrenal " Rests." — Small isolated portions of adrenal tissue, cor- responding to accessory spleens, are fairly com- monly present. They occur in the neighbour- hood of the main glands, and appear as small yellowish - white masses. They are generally about the size of a grain of corn, and contain a medulla. They may be found along the course of the spermatic or ovarian vessels, and may travel as far as the epididymis or broad liga- ment. These accessory adrenal bodies may become the seat of adenomatous growth. Eurich has given a description of an adenoma starting in the medulla of an accessory adrenal body. When accessory adrenal bodies become im- planted in the substance of other organs they are called adrenal " rests." The kidneys are the most frequent situations for these "rests," but they have also have been observed in the liver (Schmorl). Adenomatous growth, if it occurs in these rests, may give rise to a tumour or adenoma in the kidney, and some recorded examples of renal lipomata may be explained as the result of extensive fatty degeneration of an adrenal adenoma embedded in that organ. Primary Malignant Disease of the Adrenal Glands. — Primary malignant disease is rare. Some of the cases so described were very prob- ably examples of haemorrhagic adenomata. In a recent investigation into all the available recorded cases. Dr. Marks and I could only find sixteen undoubted instances. The criteria of malignancy that we employed were the invasion of adjacent parts, or the presence of secondary growths. To these we were able to add ten previously unpublished cases, making twenty-six in all. Taking these figures as a basis, it is seen that the sexes are equally affected by the disease ; the average age was thirty-seven and a half years, being higher for males (males, forty-three and a half ; females, thirty-one and a half years). The extreme ages were nine months and seventy- three yeai'S. R. Williams mentions that in thirty-six collected cases a third were in children, but I am not prepared to accept as really malig- nant all the cases so described. Though they have been met with occasionally in early life,