251 APPENDICITIS on a patient in whom the symptoms are rapidly subsiding; if operation is desirable, it should, in such a case, be undertaken a week or ten days after all active symptoms have disappeared. A person who has had two attacks of appendi- citis had better have the oftendiug organ re- moved, for he is liable to other attacks at any time, and possibly the next attack may be a severe one, and perhaps perforation may take ])lace. The fear of an attack keeps the patient in continual dread; he is unwilling to leave home, dreading he may have an attack when out of reach of skilled surgical assistance. It must be confessed that in many cases repeated attacks take place and then they cease and the patient gets perfectly well, but one can never tell these cases from those which may suddenly develop a pei'forative peritonitis with its subse- ijuent dangers. Operation should be advised after a single severe att;»ck, if the patient does udt entirely recover, or if a tender appendix or tumour remain after the subsidence of the fever. In cases of recurrent appendicitis, attacks may frequently be avoided by careful attention to diet and regular habits. Constipation above all things should be avoided, also late suppers and very hearty meals—all indigestible food should be carefully shunned. An occasional dose of some saline purge is beneficial. Ex- posure to cold should also be avoided, also over- exertion. In many cases, with the most careful diet and the taking of every other precaution possible, the patient will still have attacks. In these circumstances nothing but operation will offer any relief from the recurring trouble. Operation: DuRiN(i the Interval.—Opera- tion during the interval may be undertaken with great confidence. The mortality in all cases in the hands of skilled surgeons is about 1 per cent. The best time to operate is about two weeks after the attack, or as soon as the acute symptoms have subsided. After cleansing the field of operation and the hands of the operator, and taking other jirecautions which are necessary in every important siu'gical opera- tion, an incision should be made, as recommended by M'Burney, crossing an imaginary line drawn from the imibilicus to the anterior superior spine of the ilium at the junction of its middle and lower thirds ; this incision should be down- wards and inwards in the line of the aponeurotic fibres of the external abdominal oblique muscle one and a half inches internal to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The external in- cision should be from 3" to 4" long according to the amount of adipose tissue ; only the skin and a])oneurosis are incised; the fibres of the external abdominal oV)lique are separated and held aside by an assistant with blunt hook retractors; the internal iil)li(iue is now exposed and its fibres are seen running at right angles to the first incision ; the fibres of this muscle and of the transversalis are now separated without cutting by means of the handle of a scalpel, another assistant with another pair of retractors holds these muscles aside. After all hjemorrhage lias been ari'ested and the hands washed freshly, the transversalis fascia and the parietal peritoneum are cut through in the same direction in which the deejjer niTiscular filires have been separated. These structures are also held aside with the deep muscles, and the peritoneal cavity is now seen with some bowel or omentum presenting ; the bowel is usually the cajcum or colon, and the anterior muscular band must now be looked for—when found it is traced down until the apj^endix is reached. The appendix may often be found by introducing the forefinger into the wound, and if there are no adhesions it may easily be turned out thi'ough the wound. It is sometimes necessary to draw a small part of the caecum out of the wound to enable the operator to reach the appendix ; it often springs up into the wound if there are no adhesions, and then is easily isolated and removed. When it is reached, if necessary, free the adhesions about it and then tie oft' its mesentery by passing a fine silk or catgut ligature through the mesentery near the ctecal end of the appendix. Having tied and cut this away, the appendix is free — the distal end should be seized and a ligature of fine silk or catgut placed about it near the CcBcal end, and the appendix cut oft' with scissors or burnt through with a thermo-cautery; however divided, it should be carefully protected during the process and after division—a sharp point of a well-heated thermo-cautery should sear the cut surface and also the exposed mucous surface on the distal side of the ligature. The heated point should be pressed deeply in so that the infected mucous membrane will be thoroughly destroyed. Some prefer the applications of pure carbolic acid to using the cautery. It probably answers equally well. After the stump of the appendix has been thoroughly disinfected, it, with the cfecum, is dropped back into the peritoneal cavity and the deep retractors removed ; the womid closes almost of itself — in the deep muscles it is not more than 2" long. The divided structures are now sutured separately with catgut, a continuous suture being used. First the peritoneum and transversalis fascia, next the internal oblique and transversalis, then the aponeurosis of the external abdominal oblique, and finally the skin. It is my custom to use interrupted horse-hair sutures for the skin incision. No drainage is used as a rule, but should there be any pus, which in interval cases is rare, a small drain of sterilised cotton- wick might be used for twenty-four hours. Of course this operation was never intended or recommended b}' ^I'Burney in suppurative cases. In these cases the ordinary straight incision through the various structures forming