454 BONE, DISEASES OF sion of the main artery above, but in the spurious aneurysm of bone, the distension of the tumour and the p\ilsation are longer in returning when the pressure is removed. In the region of the knee it is easier to differentiate between the two, because one is able to make out the relations of the tumour to the bones and to the popliteal artery ; in the groin and pelvis the diagnosis may be extremely difficult. Aneurysms of bone, especially those with a shrill Viruit, have been known to consolidate and disappear. The treatment is influenced l)y the malignant or innocent nature of the original tumour. In malignant cases involving the bones of the limbs, amputation is indicated; in the pelvis operative treatment may be out of the question. In innocent tumours one may consider the po.ssibility of a conservative operation, re- sembling that known as the " old operation" for true aneurysm. Secondary Tumours op Bone.—These include all varieties of tumours which are capable of causing metastasis in bone, and those whicli spread to the bone by direct contiguity. I. Metastatic Tumours.—Secondary cancer is a comparatively common disease in bone. Its characters depend on the nature of the primary growth which gave rise to it. There are softer forms which grow rapidly, and which are characterised rather by the eating away of the bone. In more slowly growing forms there may be considerable formation of a new im- perfectly organised bone, often very deficient in lime salts, so that the affected bones may be cut with a knife ; this condition may be widely diffused throughout the skeleton and has been described as cancerous osteomalacia. Secondary cancer of bone may not reveal itself clinically at all, or it may suddenly attract notice from the occurrence of spontaneous fracture; this specially occurs in the shaft of the femur or humerus and in the vertebra;; in the latter situation it is attended with a painful form of paraplegia which may involve the lower or all four extremities. On the other hand, the disease may show itself clinically as a tumour of bone, it may be of considerable size, which may be mistaken for a primary sarcoma, unless the existence of the original cancer is evident or suspected, and is then discovered on examina- tion. The cancers specially liable to give rise to metastasis in bone are those of the breast, liver, uterus, prostate, and intestine. Seccmdary tumours derived from the thyroid gland require special mention, not only because of their frequency, but because they are peculiar inasmuch as neither the primary growth in the thyroid nor the secondary growths in the bones are necessarily malignant. They are therefore amenable to surgical treatment. Secondary sarcomxi, whether derived from primary growths in the bones or in the soft parts, are very much rarer than the corresponding cancers. They are not to be confused with cases in which sarcoma is generalised throiighout the skeleton from the oiitset. They are of little clinical importance, as with isolated exceptions they are quite out of the range of operative treat- ment. II. Cancer of hone resulting from direct exten- sion from adjacent soft parts.—In this group, the bone is involved by the spread of the cancer in the same way as any other tissue. There are two clinical types. The first is met with in relation to epithelio- mata of mucous surfaces, e.g. palate, gums, antrum, frontal sinus, auditory meatus and middle ear, and will be described imder these special regions, and in relation to epithelioma and rodent cancer of the skin over any bone. The second is met with in relation to epithelioma when it attacks a persistent sinus resulting from suppurative osteomyelitis. The sinus may have existed twenty or more years. The disease originates at the external or skin orifice of the sinus, and spreads down to the bone and into its interior. Inside the bone the progress of the cancer is resisted by the sclerosed condition of the bone, and the obliteration of the medullary canal; still, although its progress is slow, the infiltration of the bone is often more extensive than would appear externally. It is recognised clinically by the characteristic epi- theliomatoiis growth in the sinus and its vicinity, and by the stinking discharge from the bone. The operative treatment is influenced by the extent of disease in the soft parts overlying the bone, and will consist accordingly in wide removal of the diseased tissues or in amputa- tion. Cysts op Bone.—With the exception of the parasitic cysts, which are considered elsewhere, cysts in the interior of the bone are usually the result of the liquefaction of tumour or other solid tissues; the tumours which may result in the formation of cysts are the chondroma, the myxoma, and the sarcoma. Cysts are also formed in relation to osteomalacia, and to the rarer forms of attenuated staphylococcus in- fection. Special epithelial cysts derived from the teeth are met with in the jaws, and are described under this head. Multiple Myeloma.—Under this vague head- ing, brief reference may be made to a rare form of disease of bone which is accompanied V)y albumosuria. Originally described by Bence Jones, cases have been recorded recently by Bradshaw, Senator, and others. The lesion in j the bones has been variously described as . primary multiple sarcoma, myeloma, or lym- phoma, and as partaking of the characters of osteomalacia. It would appear to consist in I the development, in the interior of the ribs,