BRAIN, SURGERY OF 520 ence with the mental functions. If the abscess affect the third frontal convolution on the left side we may have aphasia present. Abscesses situated in the sensorimotor area will usually denote their exact position by caus- ing spasm or paralysis of the groups of muscles corresponding to the brain centres affected. Diagnosis of Cerebral Abscess. — The chief conditions with which cerebral abscess may be confused are meningitis, mastoid disease, lateral sinus phlebitis, and tumour of the brain. The following are some of the main points of dis- tinction :— (a) In meningitis there is more evidence of irritation, e.g. severe pain, delirium, contraction of the pupils and photophobia, spasm, and rigidity of muscles. The symptoms of meningitis come on soon after the infection, and their onset is abrupt; the pulse and temperature are both raised. (6) In mastoid disease there is deafness, a history of otorrhoea, with pain and oedema over the mastoid, and other local signs of the disease (q.v.). The difficulty in diagnosis arises from the fact that not only is cerebral abscess frequently secondary to mastoid disease, and the two con- ditions may coexist, but certain symptoms, such as giddiness, vomiting, and even optic neuritis (symptoms which are usually indicative of cere- bral abscess), are present in a certain number of mastoid cases. That this is the case is proved by the fact that cleaning out the mastoid antrum may in such cases remove the symptoms. There is probably some local basal meningitis and extradural effusion in these cases to cause the above symptoms. (c) In lateral sinus j^hlebitis with infective thrombosis the most marked symptoms are practically those of pyjemia, viz. severe rigors, sweatings, and a very high temperature with marked remissions. There is usually some tenderness over the upper part of the internal jugular vein in the neck; vomiting and optic neuritis are absent. {d) Cerebral Tumours.—-The diagnosis here is often so difficult as to be impossible by any means short of exploratory operation. The absence of an original septic focus, and the steady, unrelenting progression of the symptoms of a tumour from bad to worse, are perhaps the chief points of importance. While optic neuritis is common enough in cerebral abscess, it may be considered an almost invari- able symptom of cerebral tuinoin'. There is, as a rule, much less gastric disturbance in the case of tumour. The diagnosis between chronic cerebral abscess and spreading oedema of the brain is not usually difficult. When the conditions occur together, as may be the case, the symptoms are confusing. In an uncomplicated cedema, the history of a recent injury, the rapid onset of symptoms, the quick p\ilse, high temperature, and the absence of rigors, vomiting, and optic neuritis, are usually sufficiently indicative of the nature of the case. Treatment.— This consists in evacuating the pus and draining the cavity. If this can be done without interference with any vital part of the brain the prognosis is very favourable. Having determined the site of the abscess by a careful consideration of the symptoms, a trephine of at least 1 inch in diameter should be applied directly over this point. If the abscess be subcranial in position pus will at once follow the removal of the disc of bone. If subdural, the dura mater will bulge in the trephine hole. It must be carefully opened, and if the abscess be not yet reached, the surface of the brain must be carefully examined by in- spection and palpation, and, if necessary, a fine exploring needle thrust into the substance of the brain. If pus be found, a pair of sinus forceps should be gently pushed in along the needle, and a rubber drainage tube of about J- inch lumen passed into the abscess cavity. The contents should then be gently washed out, and the end of the tube brought out through a dependent angle of the wound. (For fuller details see p. 508.) In frontal abscess secondary to disease of the nasal bones, trephine at least 1 inch above the upper margin of the eyebrow so as to avoid opening the frontal sinus. In temporo-sphenoidal abscess trephine \ inch behind and 1 inch above the centre of the external auditory meatus. In cerebellar abscess trephine 1^ inches behind and |- inch below the centre of the external audi- tory meatus, so as to avoid the lateral sinus. If there be a doubt as to whether the abscess be situated in the cerebellum or temporo - sphenoidal lobe, it has been recommended to trephine 1^ inches behind and \ inch above the centre of the external auditory meatus. Explore the temporo-sphenoidal lobe first, and if you fail to find pus there, remove bone with the gouge forceps downwards and Vjackwards from your original trephine opening and expose the cere- bellum. In this way both the temporo-sphen- oidal lobe and the cerebellum may be readily examined through one opening in the skull. The chief apparent objection to this suggestion is the risk of contaminating the meninges above the tentorium with the pus coming from a cere- bellar abscess below the tentorium. It is safer to make two distinct openings, the first of which can be closed and sealed with collodion before the second is made. 4. Infective Thrombosis of the Venous Sinuses.—Thrombosis of the sinuses of the dura mater occasionally takes place in cases of maras- mus. The longitudinal sinus is the one most commonly affected in this way. The form of thrombosis, however, which solely interests the surgeon is that which is due to infection by