BLADDER, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF 389 symptoms quickly subsiding if it is restored to a healthy condition. Pyelitis is another affection which must be distinguished from cystitis, for it is accompanied by the presence of pus in the urine, and often by pain and increased frequency in micturition. In pyelitis, however, the kidney is frequently somewhat tender upon pressure, and occasionally a slight fulness can be detected upon palpation ; the urine retains its acid action for a considerable time, and the pus, which is often present in considerable quantity, is more intimately diffused, and does not so quickly separate and settle at the bottom of the vessel as when it is derived from the bladder. In doubtful cases a cystoscopic examination of the interior of the bladder, or examination of ;i specimen of urine obtained before it enters the bladder by catheterisation of the ureters, will sometimes show whether the pus is of renal or vesical origin. In most cases of cystitis some cause will be apparent, e.g. the irritation of a stone or a new growth, prostatic enlargement, urethral strictui-e, etc., or there will be a history of septic infection of the bladder having been caused in one or other of the ways described. In the absence of any definite cause, and especi- ally if the patient is a young adult, the cystitis is often due to tuberculosis, and the possibility of the existence of a "solitary ulcer" should also be borne in mind. Treatment.—The first indication is to remove, if possible, the cause of the cystitis, and this having been effected, to correct the septic con- dition of the lu-ine. If secondary to a stricture of the urethra, this should be dilated or divided ; if calculi, foreign bodies, or growths are present in the bladder, they sliould be removed; if due to the constant irritation of residual urine in enlargement of the prostate, the bladder should lie regularly emptied by a catheter, and the treatment appropriate for the prostatic disease should also be followed out. To correct the septic condition of the urine, urinary antiseptics, i.e. drugs which exert a germicidal action vipon the organisms present in the urine, should be employed, and these may lie administered by the mouth or introduced directly into the bladder. The antiseptics usually given internally are boric acid, salol, benzoic acid, naphthalin, benzonaphthol, and the hetizoates of soda and amnt.onin, but inasmuch as they act upon the bladder through the medium of the urine, and therefore require to be first eliminated by the kidneys, the germicidal power which they excite upon the organisms present in the bladder is but slight. Moreover, they have to be given in fairly large doses, continued for some length of time, and the result is that the digestive functions of the patient arc very liable to become impaired. Though their action, therefore, is not very powerful, still they form useful adjuncts to other methods of treatment, and their administration is usually attended by benefit. Another class of drugs which often prove of service in cases where pus and mucus continue to be present in the urine after the irritation has subsided, are those which stimidate directly the vesical mucous membrane through the urine, e.g. oil of sandal-wood, turpentine, cuhebs, copaiba, cantharides, etc. When pain and irritability of the bladder are prominent symptoms, morphia or belladonna sup)p)ositoTies may be used, and tinct. hyosc. given internally. A useful mixture in many cases of chronic cystitis is one containing tinct. hyosc. (m. 30), boric acid (gr. 10), and inf. buchu. (1 oz.), to be taken three or four times a day. As in the acute form of the disease, alcohol should be avoided, and fluids should be given freely, e.g. several pints of distilled water to drink daily. If salol or some other antiseptic is also given by the mouth, the urinary tract is constantly washed out from above downwards with a large quantity of a slightly antiseptic fluid. " The urine becomes exceedingly diluted, which circumstance diminishes its nutritive value for microbes, while the salol renders it still more adverse to bacteria" (Rovsing). When the urine is acid, and especially if it is concentrated, depositing urates, as often happens in gouty subjects, then alkalies should be ad- ministered, e.g. potassse bicarb, or cit., with plenty of fluids; and alkaline mineral waters (potash or litliia) should also be freely given. Vesical Irrigation.—The most effectual method of treating chronic cystitis is by vesical irriga- tioH, i.e. washing out the interior of the bladder with an antiseiitic lotion. A flexible catheter, connected with a glass funnel by a piece of indiarubber tubing two or three feet in length, is passed into the bladder. The funnel is raised above the level of the patient's body in the recumbent position, and filled with fluid, which is allowed to run slowly into the bladder until it begins to cause a feeling of fulness or discom- fort. The funnel is then lowered below the patient's body and held over a vessel, into which the fluid runs out of the bladder on the syphon principle. This process is repeated several times until a pint or more of fluid has been allowed to run in and out of the bladder.^ The amount of fluid which the bladder will comfort- ' Vesical ivrigatiou may also be performed without the use of a catheter, by the employment oi hf/drostatic pressure. A conical nozzle, which fits the external urinary meatus, is connected by a piece of indiarubber tubing with a vessel containing fluid, raised five to seven feet above the level of the patient's body. The urethra is first flushed out by allowing some of the fluid to enter and then to escape by the side of the nozzle. On compressing the nozzle tightly, so that no fluid escapes, the urethra becomes distended and the sphincter vesica soon rela.xes, allowing the fluid to enter the bladder. On withdrawing the nozzle, the fluid is expelled from the bladder, often with considerable force. The bladder may also be irrigated through a catheter introduced per urethram, or by hydrostatic pressure ; or by a Higginson's syringe fitted with a conical nozzle, which fits the external urinary meatus.