386 BLADDER, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF bladder, the point of the instrument being- arrested at the seat of laceration; if, how- ever, it can be passed, a quantity of clear urine can usually be drawn off. In most cases hajmorx'hage takes place from the urethra inde- pendently of any attempt at micturition ; unless relief is afforded, evidences of distension of the bladder soon appear. Treatment.—In intra-peritoneal rupture the indication is to open the abdomen in the middle line, close the rent in the bladder-wall, and thoroughly cleanse the peritoneal cavity. In closing the opening in the bladder, Lembert's method of suturing should be employed, the peritoneal surfaces of the margins of the wound being inverted and brought into contact by fine silk sutures, which should transfix the serous and muscular coats, but not include the mucous membrane. To make sure that the bladder is water-tight it should be tested by injecting boric lotion through the urethra; if any escapes through the wound, additional sutures should be inserted at the weak spot. The peritoneal cavity is then thoroughly irrigated, and all blood and fluid afterwards removed. The ex- ternal wound may then be completely closed, or a glass drainage tube may be inserted, reach- ing to the recto-vesical cul-de-sac, so that if there is any leakage of urine there may be an outlet for it. To prevent this accident, which may occur if the viscus becomes distended with urine, a catheter should be retained in the bladder or passed at regular intervals for several days. In extra - peritoneal rupture free incisions should be made in the perineum or above the pubes to provide an outlet for the extravasated \irine, and one or more drainage-tubes should be inserted. If the rent in the bladder-wall is accessible it should be closed by sutures, which should include only the muscular coat. The prognosis after operation is much more favourable in this inj^iry than in intra-peritoneal rupture, where the mortality is very high, even after suture of the bladder. In both cases the result will be influenced by the interval which elapses between the injury and the performance of the operation, for if there has been much delay, and especially if the urine is in an un- healthy condition, peritonitis or cellulitis will probably result, followed in most cases by death. Penetrating Wounds of the Bladder are sometimes met with as the result of gunshot or other injuries, e.g. stabs involving the lower part of the abdomen, falls upon some sharp object, which penetrates the perineum, etc. The general symptoms will be very similar to those of rupture of the bladder, but in addition there will often be an escape of urine mixed with blood from the external wound, which renders the diagnosis more easy. It sometimes happens that the bladder is accidentally opened in operations for the removal of ovarian or other forms of abdominal tumour, owing to the pre- sence of adhesions. The treatment of this injury will be the same as in cases of rupture, and when occurring during the performance of an operation, the wound in the bladder should at once be closed by sutures. Foreign Bodies Foreign bodies of various kinds may gain access into the interior of the bladder in several ways, viz. :— 1. Along the Urethra.—This is the usual route, it occasionally happening that pieces of gum elastic catheters are broken off and left in the bladder during catheterisni, or when tied in and retained there, and the same accident may occur with bougies in the treatment of stricture. Not infrequently portions of pencil, penholders, bodkins, hairpins, etc., introduced into the urethra by the patients themselves to allay some irritation or for sensual purposes, slip out of reach, and then travelling backwards along the canal, make their way into the bladder, where they remain. 2. Through the Bladder-Wall.—In other cases a piece of bone from a diseased or fractured pelvis; a foreign body from the intestine or vagina {e.g. a pessary); the contents of a der- moid cyst; portions of a foetus in cases of extra-uterine gestation; hydatid cysts forming in the pelvis—may ulcerate through the bladder- wall, and make their way into its interior; in rare cases of gunshot injury, a bullet or piece of clothing may penetrate the bladder and remain there. 3. Along the Ureter.—Hydatid cysts form- ing in the pelvis of the kidney, or foreign bodies {eg. bullets) which have lodged there, may in rare cases make their way downwards along the ureter into the bladder. Symptoms.—Though a foreign body may be present in this situation for a considerable time withovit causing any definite symptoms, it more frequently sets up irritation, micturition becom- ing painful and frequent, and traces of blood appearing in the urine. Cystitis soon super- venes, and the urine becoming alkaline, the foreign body becomes encrusted with phosphates, forming the nucleus for a stone, and giving rise to all the symptoms of that condition. Treatment.—When, as sometimes happens, there is a doubt as to the presence or not of a foreign body, the cystoscope will prove of service, for it will not only reveal it, if one is there, but it will also show its exact position, and in this way often facilitate attempts to remove it. When the foreign body is a piece of catheter, bougie, pencil, etc., it can often be seized by a lithotrite, or by a special forceps, so constructed that it is caught between the blades in its long axis. If hard and brittle, its extrac- tion will sometimes be rendered more easy, if it is first broken up by crushing it with a litho-