400 BLADDER, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF disease then runs a more rapid course, soon terminating fatally. Sarcoma of Bladder.—Sarcoma is frequently met with in the bladder, and it is probable that many of the cases which were formerly described as " villous cancer " were really of this nature. It usually occurs as a primary growth, consisting of round, or of a mixture of round and spindle cells : examples of lympho- and myxo-sarcoma, and also of the alveolar variety, are occasionally met with. It springs from the submucous tissue, but soon tends to invade the other coats, so that after a time the whole thickness of the bladder-wall may become involved in the disease, which occasionally infiltrates the surrounding- parts. Sarcoma is met with in children as well as in adults, and though vesical growths are not common in young subjects, the majority will be found to be of this nature. When occurring in adults it often forms a prominent mass of con- siderable size, occasionally pedunculated, but much more frequently sessile, and usually springing from the base or posterior wall. The growth may be firm and fleshy throughout, and irregularly lobulated or fissured, presenting a cauliflower-like appearance. In other cases the surface is soft and villous, the deeper portion being of firm consistence, or the growth may be soft throughout, so closely resembling a papil- loma that, without a microscopic examination, it is impossible to make out its true nature. When occurring in children, sarcoma freqtiently appears in the form of multiple polypoid growths, varying in size from a pea to a walnut, often forming large masses (resembling a bunch of grapes), and more or less completely filling the bladder. The surface of the growths under these circumstances is generally smooth and devoid of villi. Tumours of this nature, which are usually examples of myxo- or fibro-sarcoma, were formerly described as " mucoid or fibroid polypi " of the bladder, Symptoms.—Though the general symptoms are of a similar nature to those of papilloma, the disease as a rule runs a more rapid course, for the attacks of hjematuria soon become more frequent and more profuse, and evidences of chronic cystitis and secondary renal disease more rapidly develop. Thus, while a case of papilloma may last for many years, e.g. five, ten, or even fifteen years, it will be found that in sarcoma, if allowed to run its course, a fatal result usually takes place in from one to three or four years. As the disease advances, physical signs of its presence can often be detected, for if of firmish consistence, owing to its tendency to infiltrate the bladder-wall, it can often be felt on examination per rectum or per vaginam, or upon bimanual examination ; upon exploring the bladder with a sound an obstruction is some- times encountered, or the movement of the instrument in the bladder can be felt to be limited. In addition to villous processes, dis- tinct portions of growth are occasionally passed in the uiine, sometimes large enough to block the urethra and cause a temporary stoppage in the stream. On examination with the cysto- scope, the floating processes can be seen when the surface is villous: more frequently the appearance presented is that of an irregular or lobulated surface of a greyish or brownish colour, ulcerated in places, with tags of adherent necrotic tissue which may be distinguished from villi by their paler colour and absence of any signs of vasculai'ity. When sarcoma occurs in children in the form of the polypoid growths referred to, the most prominent symptom is generally difficulty in micturition, followed after a time by retention or incontinence of urine, hfematuria being fre- quently absent or only present to a slight extent. This is explained by the less vascular nature of the growths and by the absence of a villous surface. Cystitis is soon set up, and in other respects they run the same course as in adults, soon terminating fatally. Secondary deposits are only very rarely met with in the adjacent lymphatic glands, but may occur in internal organs and other parts of the body, as is the case in sarcoma generally. Carcinoma of Bladder.—Carcinoma may attack the bladder as a primary or secondary affection in the form of (1) glandular or acinous cancer ; (2) or epithelioma. 1. Glandular or acinous carcinoma is usually of the encephaloid variety, scirrhus being ex- tremely rare. Encephaloid cancer generally occurs as a primaiy growth, and in its physical characters it closely resembles sarcoma. Scirrhus, which has onlycbeen met with in a few instances, manifests itself as an infiltration or thickening of the bladder-wall, usually without forming a distinct tumour, and under these circumstances the viscus presents a contracted appearance, its power of expansion being interfered with in consequence of the induration of its walls. The mucous membrane may for a long time remain free from ulceration, showing little change beyond corrugation of its surface. 2. Epithelioma, when affecting the bladder primarily, usually appears as a squamous-celled growth. Commencing in most cases at the base, it rapidly spreads, infiltrating the entire thick- ness of the bladder-wall, which presents a ragged and irregular raised surface, vilcerating in places, and often coated over with a deposit of phos- phates. The bladder-wall is thickened, and in the neighbourhood of the patches of ulceration, the margins of which are raised and indurated, there are often numerous small hard nodules which after a time also break down and ulcerate. Sometimes two or more epitheliomatous growths separated by healthy tissue are present in the same bladder, and under these circumstances it has been suggested that one patch becomes inoculated from another, owing to contact when