26 ABORTION of the foetus are taking shape and the placenta is undergoing development, and the abortion to be called Embryonic ; (3) from the third month onward, after the infantile form is fairly assumed, and the abortion is to be spoken of as F(etal. But the mole or mass that is expelled in a case of abortion does not necessarily represent the ordinary contents of the uterus at the patient's supposed period of pregnancy. While the embryo may have been dead for some time it may not be extruded, and parts of the ovum undergo further changes which prevent their identification with the date of this expulsion. Even where the pi'oducts do correspond to the gestation date, the abortion does not go on in every case in the same way. In an Abortion at the Third Month, e.g. where under the i-egular action of the uterus there has been a perfect deciduation of the mucosa, the mole will be of the size of a large goose egg, and present on its outer surface the tomentous appearance of the external surface of the decidua vera, with the placental develop- ment in the serotinal area. This represents a complete abortion. But often the decidua vera remains attached to the uterus, and the ovum escapes invested only with the still vascular though less red reflexa and the placenta. In that case the general surface is smooth, with only the roughnesses of the placental portion. Sometimes the body that is passed has a white appearance, with one part shaggy or bringing serotinal tissue with it, whilst the rest of the surface is relatively smooth. In that case we have an ovum that has burst through all its involucra and comes off invested with the chorion. At other times the chorion has given way, and we see a sac with transparent wall which we recognise as the amnion, containing the foetus floating in its liquor amnii. In other instances all the membranes have broken and the liquor amnii and foetus may first escape, leaving the rest of the uterine contents to be expelled piecemeal or in more or less of their entirety. When the Embryo dies in Early Pregnancy, it sometimes disappears entirely, so that when the amniotic cavity is opened it will be found to contain nothing but liquid; or it may be that a fragment of umbilical cord is attached to the surface where the placenta had begun to form. Where it has not disintegrated it may be found of the size of a bean in a cavity large enough to have contained a three or four months' foetus. If death set in at a later stage, and abortion do not immediately follow, the foetus becomes macerated and shrunken, or its tissues and cavities become infiltrated and filled with a serous transudation which is often sanguinolent. More rarely the liquor amnii has become absorbed, so that the foetus is crushed together ; and when in a geminal pregnancy the twin in the upper part of the uterus perishes at the third or fourth month, it becomes flattened between its growing neighbour and the uterine wall, and appears at birth as a foetus papyraceus or foetus compressus. A twin ovum that dies in the lower segment of the uterus may on the other hand be discharged and have the appear- ance of an oi"dinary abortion, whilst the living twin may go on developing and be born as a full-time child. Beside the diversities due to the varying con- ditions of the embryo and foetus, the products of an abortion present further diflerences accord- ing to changes in the walls of the ovum or in their uterine investments. As a result we get a " mole "—either a " fleshy mole " (mola carnosa), when the discharged mass has the appearance of a piece of flesh, and consists of a cast of the whole uterus ; " a bloody mole " (mola luema- tosa or cruenta), the result of extravasation into the tissues or cavities ; or a " hydatid, vesicular,, or bladdery mole" (mola vesicularis or hydatosa), resulting from the so-called myxomatous de- generation of the chorionic villi. Causes The causes of abortion have sometimes been set down to conditions on the part of the husband. Old age, weakness from sexual excesses, syphilis, phthisis, renal disease, and such like, may have left a man capable of fertilising an ovum, but to such an imperfect degree that it does not attain its full development. The paternal influence, however, is not the direct cause of the abortion, which must be sought in morbid changes either (1) in the ovum, (2) in the placenta, or (3) in the mother. 1. Ovular or Fcetal Causes.—The causes of the part of the ovum are found sometimes in the foetus itself, but more frequently in the in- vesting membranes. They may be classified as follows: (1) Death of the Foetus; (2) Diseases of the Membranes. The various factors inducing death of the foetus, and the morbid conditions of the investing membranes leading to abortion, are fully discussed later (vide " Pregnancy, Intra- uterine Diseases "). 2. Placental Causes.—Intei-mediate between the causes that are referable on the one hand to the ovum, and on the other to the mother, are those which depend on morbid changes in the placenta, composed of elements derived from both. We may note the tendency to abortion due to abnormalities in— (a) The Placental Area.—Hegar's observation has often been confirmed that where the area of attachment of the chorion to the uterus is unduly narrow, the ovum is easily detached and thrown off", and that, on the other hand, where the serotinal attachment is of unusual extent, haemorrhages are apt to arise which excite the uterus to abort. (b) The Placental Site.—When the implanta- tion of the placenta is abnormally low, haemor-