383 BLACKWATER FEVER A moderate dose of calomel (5 grains) to clear the prima; vise and check the formation of products of decomposition in the digestive tract may be of service. Possibly in most eases an irrigation of the colon is preferable. The patient should be allowed to drink distilled water freely—we have no better diuretic, and it is necessary to keep the kidneys flushed so that the debris of destroyed blood corpuscles is washed out from the tubules. Warm alkaline drinks will also serve as an emetic to the great quantity of bile which is secreted during the paroxysm, and will thus greatly relieve the persistent and exhausting retching. The patient should be carefully sponged with tepid water, and this should be done with as little disturbance as possible. Hot fomentations and turpentine stupes may be applied to the loins to alleviate pain and pi-event suppression of urine. The food should be liquid, consisting chiefly of milk and broths. Barley-water, oatmeal- water, lemonade, and the juice of oranges may be given freely. Alcohol is not necessary in all cases, but it should be given when the weakness is marked and the pulse is failing. The patient should be confined to his bed, and kept in the recumbent position until con- valescence is well established. Bladder, Injuries and Diseases of. Malformations and Malpositions . . 383 In.juries ...... 384 Foreign Bodies 386 Diseases 387 Cystitis 387 Tuberculous Disease . . . 390 Ulceration . . . . .392 Calculus 392 Tumours ...... 398 Fistula 402 Female Bladder 403 See also Ascites {Diagnosis); Aspirator, Uses OF; Catheters, Uses and Dangers of ; Cysto- scopE ; Fractures {Pelvis) ; Generation, Female Organs of ; Gynecology, Diagnosis IN; H.ematuria ; Hernia {Special Viscera.); Hydatid Disease {Bladder); Kidney^, Surgical Affections of {Pyelitis) ; Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged {Split Pelvis); Labour, Injuries TO THE Generative Organs ; Menstruation AND its Disorders (Vicarious); Ovaries, Dis- eases of the {Diagnosis of Ovarian Tumour); Parasites {Bilharzia); Physiology ; Pharma- cology; Post-mortem Methods {Pelvis); Preg- nancy, Physiology; Pregnancy, Diagnosis; Pregnancy, Affections of Generative Organs {Retroversion of Gravid Uterus); Pregnancy, Affections and Complications ; Prostate Gland ; Puerperium, Physiology ; Pyuria ; Rectum, Diseases op the {Stone); Skin-Graft- iNG {Extroversion of the Bladder); Spasm ; Tabes DoRSALis {Visceral Troubles); Urine, Bacteria in; Uterus, Malformations of the {Vulva); Uterus, Malignant Tumours of; Visceral Pain. Malformations Absence of the bladder is of very rare occur- rence, the ureters under these circumstances opening into the urethra, vagina, rectum, or externally on the abdominal wall. Supernumerary bladders are almost as un- common, most of the cases described as such being instances of sacculated bladders, the result of iiTegular dilatation from long-con- tinued obstruction to the escape of the urine. Ectopion vesicae, or extroversion of the bladder, are the terms applied to a congenital malforma- tion occurring much more frequently in boys than in girls, viz. in the proportion of about 10 to 1, in which, owing to arrest of development, there is an absence of the anterior wall of the bladder, as well as of the corresponding portion of the abdominal parietes, the pubic bones being also separated by a wide interval. Under these circumstances, the mucous membrane of the posterior wall of the bladder, on which the orifices of the ureters can be detected, forms a red vascular projection, being pushed forward by the intestines which lie behind it. Li com- plete cases, this condition, which is accompanied by a constant drilibling of urine fx'om the exposed surface, is associated with absence of the umbili- cus, imperfect development of the penis, epi- spadias, and a bifid sci'otum; the testes, which are usually small and undeveloped, are often retained in the inguinal canal. Though the subjects of this deformity are occasionally of a good constitution and live to old age, they are more commonly somewhat Aveakly, their health suftering from tlie irritation caused by the con- stant dribbling away of the urine. The con- sequence is, that a large jiroportion succumb in early life to some intercurrent disease, e.g. inflammatory affections of the skin and parts around, sometimes of an erysipelatous nature; or secondary renal disease, from septic inflam- mation spreading upwards from the exposed mucous surface, and causing suppurative pyelitis or nephritis. Treatment. — Various operations have been devised with the object of i^rotecting the exposed mucous membrane, and providing a cavity in whicli the urine may be retained. These are as follows :— 1. Covering in the mucous surface by turning- over skin-flaps taken from the alKlominal wall and groin (Wood). By this method the mucous surface can be closed in, except at its lower part, where it is continuous with the open groove on the dorsal surface of the penis, which represents the urethra, and the urine is therefore more easily collected in some form of apparatus. An objection to this plan is, that the hairs on the under surface of the skin-flaps continue to grow.