22101719306Digitized by the Internet Arcliive in 2014 Iittps://arcliive.org/details/b20417470>if ASK FOR AND Use ^ r' 'THE North Qfleensland Meat Export Co.'s lal E BIG'S EXTRACT OF MEAT i *' • . ' (GElNXJIlSrE). Prepared according to Baron Liebig's own instructions. THE LARGEST PReOCgERS AND e©XTRHeT0RS IN aUSTRaLIfl, For Beef Tea, and for Strengthening and Improving the Flavour of Soups, Sauces, Gravies and Made Dishes. PERFECT PUR/TV. • . . . ix'i3::s North peensland Meat Export Co. OOLBUN,^OWNSYILLE, i [EENSLAND. 22101719306BY ROYAL APPOINTMENT. A FEW REASONS WHY Cadbury's Cocoa ENJOYS SUCH WORLD-WIDE POPULARITY, 1. It is Absolutely PURE COCOA. 2. It contains all the Delicious Aroma of the Finest Cocoa. 3. It is not reduced in value by the addition of starch or sugar, nor are drugs or chemicals used in its manufacture. 4. It is specially rich in flesh-forming and strength- sustaining principles. 5. It is a gentle stimulant and sustains against hunger and bodily fatigue. 6. It is prepared at once with boiling water. It is specially recommended by Mrs, Maclurcan in the preparation of all dishes in which Cocoa forms an ingredient.tl7G cl7oices-l- quality imporfed irtto ^UGGnslarid ; if is specially selected by experts from tl?^ best samples ^roWr^ on tl^^ > ♦ ♦ ^ultii Ittilis ii Cif tel /4\ and packed in lead foi' shipment, to ensure 1^ direct distribution to consumers in tl7^ 4^ original packets. This Tea uniform in quality, of full —T^^^^-j^^ . Stren|tl7, ar\d |uaranteed to ♦ retain its original fIa\?our. MRS. MACLURCAN uses nothing; but NIRVANA TEA at the Queen's Hotel, Townsville. For Sale by all Storekeepers, or Wholesale from KIRK & MAGPHERSON LIMITED,All Ladies perusing this Book are invited to test " UQALLA''^ Tea against any Tea Sold in North Queensland. "UCALLA" is % pinest ^clec^ed |roWif^ of the " CI GAL LA " Gstate. @roWn at an alfi+ude of §,000 feet, if joosseses tl7af exquisite "l^illy" flax^oui' Wl7icl7 is peculiar +0 tf^c finest (legion ^roWtl^s. PACKED ON THE ESTATE IN 1-lb LEAD PACKETS, and iti 3-lb., 10-lb., and 20-lh. BOXES, and in HAEF-CHESTS. " UGALLA ■' sets % sfandafd for class (;6iJlon Jp^a. H is r\ot a blend, but tl^e fir\est 6state fpea sent out of ^e^lon. SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS LIMITED, SOLE AGENTS.BtTRHS, PHILP & CO. LTD., TTOWWSVIl-JLE. AGENTS FOR— SCHWEPPE'S FAMOUS MINERAL WATERS USHER'S SPECIAL RESERVE WHISKY, in Case, Octaves and Quarter-Casks. The most reliable in the Market POMMERY AND GRENO CHAMPAGNE ROSS'S ROYAL BELFAST GINGER ALE, SODA WATER and LIME JUICE CORDIAL FRANZ JOSEF LAGER, Quarts and Pints CASTLEMAINE ALE READ BROS.' ''DOG'S HEAD" BOTTLING Bass's Ale and Guinness's Stout BISQUIT, DUBOUCHE & CO. BRANDY, in Bulk. Also the CELEBRATED V O.C.B., in Rhenish Bottles THE BENDIGO COGNAC DISTILLERY COMPANY LTD. The Brandy from this Company's Distillery is Certified by the Victorian Government to be Distilled Solely from Wine. COOROONDOWATTA TEA ESTATE, Ceylon. The Finest Ceylon Tea in the Market, in ^ lb. and i lb. Packets, 5 lb., 10 lb., 20 lb. and 50 lb. Boxes CEMENT—"ANCHOR" BRAND JOHN LYSAGHT LTD., "Orb" and "Globe" Brands Corrugated Galvanized Iron, 24 and 26 gauge QUEEN'S HEAD PLAIN IRON WILLIAMS'S AMERICAN OCTOROON TOBACCO EXQUISITO CIGARS, MANILLA CIGARS "OTTO-DE-ROSE" and NEW "GUINEA GOLD" CIGARETTES PBICES CUT TO THE LOWEST MARGIN OF PROFIT. SEND F0R QD0TaTI©NS. SHIPPING AGENCIES- Australian United Steam Navigration Co. Queensland Royal Mail Line Nippon Yusen Kaisha (Japanese Mail Line) North German Lloyds Canadian Australian S.S. Line Peninsula and Oriental Steam Navigation Co. BURNS, PHll^P & CO. IaTID., MERCHANTS, TO WNS VILLE.aplin, brown « (RaWSHa/ MERCHANTS RfiD flOEriTS, LONDON AND QUEENSLAND. TOWNSVILLE. MANAGING AGENTS IN Q'JEEMSLAND FOR: INSIJR?iN©E •—The Lancashire Fire Insurance Co.. Capital. ;^3,000,000 ; The London and Provincial Marine Insurance Company ; The iiamarang Sea and Fire Insurance Company; The Australian Alliance Assurance Company (Fire and Marine). POLICIES issued at Lowest Rates, with most favourable Policy Con- ditions, and Claims paid at any of the Firm's Branches. SHIPPING. - The Houlder Line of Steamers ; The Shire Line of Steamers ; The China Navigation Company's Steamers ; The Orient Line of Royal Mail Steamers ; Messageries Maritime^ Steamers ; also. Coasting Steamers and Sailing Vessels. Full Particulars Regarding Freight and Passage Money on application. SPECIAL ARRA/NGEMEiSTS MADE FOR SHIPMEiNTS OF WOOL, TALLOW, HIDES, AND OTHER PRODUCE. PaSTORaL DEPaRTMENTi This Department is under the management of Mr. J R. JARDINE, Aberfoyl Station, who will undertake the Business in all its Branches, special attention bein given to the Sale of Stock of all descriptions, either piivately or by auction, and all other business connected with Stations. Liberal Advances made against Wool and all other kinds of Produce for Sal and Shipment to London or elsewhere. MERCHANDISE. Agents in North Queensland for: The Colonial Sugar Refining Company's Sugars and Golden Syrup. "Ruanwelia" Ceylon Teas. Dun's "Eclipse" Steam Roller Adelaide Flour. Meadowbank's Patent Hydraulic Wool Damper.THE STOREKEEPER OF N. QUEENSLAND. Family Brocer, Wine and Spirit inercnam, TOWNSVILLE. Our constant study is the required delicacies of the North. ENGLISH, FRENCH, AMERICAN, ITALIAN, AND COLONIAL TINNED AND BOTTLED GOODS. ■■ Entrust your order to us; we guarantee the qualitii of all we supplif. SUTTER ! W© have NO RIVAL for BUTTER since we provided Ice ChamTDers and Cart for the Daily Delivery of this delicate but necessary article of the table. 5en<J your Corprp^ods to . . . Which will rewv^ IrnrT)e<Ji2it^ Attention.CUMMINS & CAMPBELL 1- I lYI I X E D, TOWNSviiLE and mmu mm. mine $( Spirit merci)dnt$, (USTOnq HOUSE AND FORWaRDiMC ACeNTS. AGEfiTS FOR^ Perkins and Co/s Limited Celebrated XXX Ale and Stout, in bulk and bottle. Bulloch, Lade and Co.'s Whisky. Fine old Scotch guaranteed 8 years old. 3mpeinal Snsurance Company Ximitct).The Up=To=Date Drapers! JAMES TAIT & CO. OEPflRTMENTS- Hosiery and Gloves Laces and Ribbons Haberdashery and Fancy Dresses Manchester Millinery Underclothing" and Corsets Underclothing" to Order Dressmaking* Men's Outfitting Men's Clothing Mercery, Shirts & Hats Latest Movelties in eO^v^ Deparfment, as soor\ as are sl?oWn in fl^e §oufl7erri (^apifals, ai'G secui'Gd oui' fesidenf buret's. Otir Millinery, Underclothing to Order^ and Dressmaking Departments we give Special Attention to^ ami guarantee as Good Results as any other house in Australia. AGENTS IN TOWNSVILLE FOR THE CP. A LA SIRENE CORSETSp JAMES TAiT AND CO, Fliodcr^ 5treet, Towp^ville.GROWN AT. AT THE MOUNT GRAHAM RUSSELL RIVER. COFFEE PLANTATION. D. R. LEWIS. MANUFACTURED AX HIS MILL, o c h <u O Mount Graham Coffee rt. 2 O S O ni < 1^ ^ Tl ; O 3- SOLD WHOLESALE AT D. R. LEWIS' eOFFEE MILL, LAKE STREET, CAIRNS. I can thoroughly recommend this Coffee, having^ used no other for the past two years. H. MACLURCAN.Hclidoii 5pa Water. LONDON, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE. ^Jc the 'general 9uhliQ.^ ^ ELIDON SPA WATER supplies the —~— -'■— — long-felt want of a - Mathral MmERAL Water that can be taken ad lib. as a daily drink and consumed in unlimited quan- tities, and will be found of great value on account of its richness in Carbonic Acid Gas. The refreshing and invigorating action of this Water is well known, and in this respect is pre-eminent. It in- duces sleep, and augments the secretion of gastric juice, thus acting as a power- ful aid to digestion. Its flavour will he found decidedly more agreeable than any other Mineral Water now before the public. HELIDON SPA WATER COMPANY,Vl^T^R ?i CO., ^ TOWNSVILLE. Sole Queensland Agents for— CoL/nAN's Starch. * * Col/aan's Austard. * ^ Col/v\an"s Blue. Cha/^pion's Vinegar. * * * ^ "A\1LKA\AID" AlLK. AGEMTS "SHIRE" LliNE OF STEAMERS. WEBSTER ^ ¥§WFiST/illG, SHIPPING aXO INSCRTINCE AGENTS, mine and Spirit, Grocery, I^ardware, and Stationery merchants. Head Office: BRISBANE,5 ■1 ~ 5 w JOHN HILLMAN, plumber, ^GASKITTER & TINSMITH. Patentee of the ECONOMIC BEER COOLER. FLINDERS STREET, TOWNSVILLE. JAMES BELL & CO., FLINDERS ST., TOWNSVILLE, Wholesale and Retail Window Glass, Oil, Colour and larnkh Merchants, and Artists' Colourmen. Plain and Decorative Painters, Sign writers, Paper hangers and Glass Embossers. Estimates given for and Work Done in any part of the colony. The only complete Pamters' and Glaziers' Establishment in N. Queensland. Brass Plates Engraved to any Design. We hold Large and Complete Stocks of all kinds of PAINTS, VARNISHES, LEADS, OILS, BRUSHWARE, PAINTERS' 8c G^LAZIERS' CUTLERY. Pictures (framed and imframed), Mouldings in Great Variety, Winsor & Newton's Artists' Materials, and all other requisites for Amateur or Professional Artists. JAMES BELL & CO, Flinders St., TowasYille.A QUEER'S BAKING ROWDER (YEAST POWDER). HE ingredients comprising this Powder are of the simplest kind, and may he used with perfect confidence at all times. Bread prepared with it is easily fligested, and it will be found invaluable for botli invalids and young children. The best and most economical yet introduced. No house should be without it. It is manufactured especially for the Australian climate from one of the best recipes extant. The Proprietors have the greatest confidence in recommending this Patent Baking Powder to all families and householders. It makes delicious Bread (without yeast), and for Pastry, Cakes, Scones, Biscuits, &c., &c., it stands unrivalled. PLAVOURTNG ESSENCES For Flavoiirinj»: Custards, Cakes, Blanc-Mange, Puddings, &c. THESE ESSENCES will be found amongst the best in the mark(*t. They are kept by all the leading stores in the colony, and deserve the very high encomiums passed upon them. They are of uniform strength, and housekeepers will do well to see that Inferior Articles are not forced upon them. QUKEIM SAUCE ^ IN HALF=P1NT and PINT BOTTLES. ' HIS SAUCE is manufactured from the Choicest Spices and other ingredients of the very finest quality, and will be found equal, if not superior, to any other kindred Preparations now before the public. For all kinds of Hot and Cold Meats, Cutlets, Steaks, Fish, Game, Gravies, Soups, &c., &c., it will be found to give a v^est that few Condiments possess.Patronized liy (lie .^Ki. Oueenslanil eovernment. The Brisbane Electrical Company. SOLE AGEflTS FOR THE Western Electrical Company. Manufacturers of ^ ^ WATER MOTORS. Electro-Platers. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS, Harper's Buildings, ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE T. TONKS, MANAGER. bBluthner Pianos* ave Established tlieir Supremacy ThroughoHt the World by their DURABILIT and CAPACITY of STANDInG- IN TUNE, due to the Perfection of the Workmanship, Every Portion of the Instrument being Produced in the Factories (the Largest in Europe). They are me fiiane instrameiits imported into Queenslaqd. PIANOS by A. HEINDORFF (Berlin), RieORDl, AND OTHER WELL-KNOWN MAKERS. AMERICAN ORGANS . WILCOX & WHITE'S -RY THK- ^2)5^ ..SELF-PLAYING.. WATERLOO ORGAN CO, PIANOS AND ORGANS. lUnstrated Catalogue and Price List Free on Application. Lowest Prices for Gash or Terms. Agents: HEINDORFF BROS., 156 and 158 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane. ^he ^ousns School, <f ... ^ (EstaTolisiiea. IS SO) XOOWOOMBT^:. J. A. BAXENDALL, Head Master. Is pleasantly situated on the western slope of the Main Range, at an altitude exceeding 2,000 feet above the sea level, overlooking the Botanical Gardens, and distant about a mile from the town.WILTSHIRE & LONGMORE Opposite POST-OFFICE, T0WN8VILLE. UP-TO-DATE GROCERS, PROVISION, WINE AND Importers of Glass, China, Karthemvare, Lamp- ware, etc., etc. All orders attended to with despatch, and under personal supervision. Country Orders Delivered. FEEE at "Wharf or Bail. The noted house for leading: brands of all doscriptions Potted and Tinned Fish, Game and Meats. Also for Fruits, Jellies, &c., &c. INSPECTION INVITED, AND A TRIAL SOLICITED. T^IDVICE TO HOUSEKEEPERS, EQUAL- TO THE BE5T BUTTER FOR CAKE5 AND PASTRY, OBTAINABLE AX ALL CSROCEI^S'. (Late BRODZIAK & RODGERS) SPIRIT MERCHANTS.MELBOURNE to LAUNGESTON And Vice Versa, The Steamship^^?:^ Maintains a reg^ular service between above ports. Dates of Sailing' advertised in local papers. EAIL TICKETS issued from Launeeston to Hobart. Tickets available Toy Union Company's Steamers. Agents in BRISBANE: BRITISH INDIA & QUEENSLAND AGENCY CO. Ltd. HUDDART, PARKER & CO. PROPRIETARY LTD. ^25-527 eei^UINS STREET, MELBOURNE,H. F. riEMLElM CO., TOWHSVlliLiE, AND AGENTS FOR \ ^^Fostsr^s^^ BassesAk I / Walker's Special Whisky/' in case and bulk. '^Irroy'' ChampagnG, quarts and pints. ^^Ooolalta'' Wines.Bine %ld Highland PERTH, N.B., AMDGLAZIERS, GILDERS, GRAINERS, &c., &c. Estimates given for all descriptions of Work. * TOWNSVILLE. WRIGHT, HEATON & GO. TOW/NSVILLE & CHARTERS TOWERS, Forwarding and Custom House Agents Produoe Merohants, Agents for MACKAg BEER, in Bulk and Bottle. Branches in all the Principal Towns of New South Wales. Agencies and Correspondents throughout the Worhl.D. W. HASTINGS & CO., Bookbinders, Paper-rulers, Mercantile Stationers, Booksellers & News-agents, FLINDERS STRMT,TOWNS¥ILLK GOery Description of prit\fin| Executed in a Superior §tyle at\d af most l^easonable Prices. BILLS OF FARE, ADDRESS LABELS, PRINTED NOTE HEADINGS, — AND — All Kinds of HOTEL STATIONERY, A Specialty The I^ATEST BOOKS STOCKMD immediately on publication. SPECIAL QUOTATIONS TO TBAOHEES FOU SCHOOL BOOKS AND REQUISITES.TIbe Pav@arite Best l^e^ THE GENUINE... FiaQz Josel Lagei Biei ANP 6tt THAT YOU G^T IT. LARGEST SALE of any LAGER in Australasia. SUPERIOR TO ANY OTHER LAGER^ AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.The Queenslander says :—Housekeepers for a long time have been wanting a Cookery Book adapted to Colonial resources. The book we have for review will meet all these wants, and is written by one of the best cooks in Australia, Mrs. Maclurcan, Queen's Hotel, Townsville. The Brisbane Courier says:—Mrs. Maclurcan's Cookery Book supplies a long felt-want—a Colonial Cookery Book. Armidale Chronicle (N.S.W.) says:—A copy of this book in a house is better than a dozen cures for indigestion. Wide Baj*^ and Burnett News says :—Mrs. Maclurcan can write with authority on such matters. Flashes (Brisbane) says :—Mrs. Maclurcan's Cookery Book stands head and shoulders above the cookery books that have hitherto been published for the use of Queenslanders. The Morning Bulletin (Rockhampton) says :—It is an excellent Cookery Book, and hotel cooks will do well to make themselves familiar with it. The Mackay Standard says:—Mrs. Maclurcan's Cookery Book should be found in every household. Townsville Bulletin says :—Mrs. Maclurcan's Cookery Book shows in terse and plain language how, with the knowledge she gives, a tasty, appetizing and attractive dish can be prepared at far less cost than good material is spoilt by—bad cooking. Townsville Evening Star says :—The book quite fulfils our expect- ations, and nobody can dispute the assertion that it is excellent value for the very moderate price at which it is published. Towers Evening Herald says :—The works treats only how to cook Australian products, so there is no waste space given to the unattainable. The Australasian says:—Mrs. Maclurcan evidently understands what she is writing about. The Northern Miner says :—It is a work of one thoroughly skilled in the culinary art. The Toowoomba Chronicle says :—For the housekeeper no book can be more useful than this one.SOUTH BRITISH <^ <^ <$> <^ Fire and JVIarine Insurance Co. —— CAPITAL 0^1,900,000 PAID-UP AND ACCUMULATED FUNDS EXCEED - - - 260,000 LOSSES PAID EXCEED - - 3,000,000 UNLIMITED LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS. Fire and Marine Insurances effected at Lowest Current Rates. Open Policies for Outward and Inward Cargoes granted on Most Favourable Terms, and Claims thereunder made payable at any of the Company's Branches and Agencies throughout the World. CHIEF BRANCHES IN AUSTRALIA: ADELAIDE (Grenfell St.) BRISBANE (200 Queen St.) HOBART (Elizabeth St.) MELBOURNE (27 Queen St.) PERTH (Barrack St) ... SYDNEY (9 Bridge St.)... TOWNSVILLE (Denham St.) . E. M. AsHWiN, Manager. . W. A. RiGBY, Manager. . Henry Cane, Manager. . A. J. Masters, Manager. . W. A. Hughes, Manager. . Metcalfe and Co., Agents. ,. L. W. J. Kekamck, Manager.MRS. MACLURCAN'S COOKERY BOOK. A eOLLECTlOM OF PRAeilCAL RECIPES SPECIALig SaiTABLE FOR AOSTRALIA. BY H. M AC LU RCAN , THIRD EDITION. GEOKGE ROBERTSON COMPANY PROPRIETARY LIMITED MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, and BRISBANE. 1899.aie e/^ e^^ai^f. ^^'i^m, n^/ man// a cr^^. mu/ //e ^c^C'i/i a/^ducceM. CZ^aj/. ^ammj/fm.PREFACE TO THE THIRD KDITION. IT seems only the other day that I wrote the preface to my first edition, and it is hard to say anything original in a preface I hope it will be some time before a fourth is wanted. My only apology for coming before the public is the knowledge that when a man eats, and eats well, he is in a condition which conduces to his comfort and good temper. The publication of this book may reveal the secret of this achievement; at any rate, I can honestly recommend every one of the recipes. Only try them, and I hope you will say the book is not a failure. I would like to say, however, so as to clear up any doubt there might be on the subject, that the great majority of the recipes in this book are my own invention, a few were bought by me, and are, consequently, my own property, and a few have been given me by friends. In presenting, in its new dress, this Third Edition to tho publioi I hcniTQ to tiiank them for a patronage that has v,;ili ES^|y^PiR.:icipations. welMOmee I hannah maclurcan. MOO iBqq KBeef Entrees Beverages . . Bread Breakfast Dishes , . . . Cakes Chicken and Fowl Recipes Chiitneys and Pickles .. Crab Eggs Fish Fish, Tinned Game Ice, Etc Invalid Cookery .. Jams and Preserves Jellies and Creams Menus Menus, Recipes for Special Mutton Entrees .. Oysters Pastry, Pies and Puddings Prawns Roast and Boiled Joints Salads and Dressings Sauces Savouries .. Soups Sweets Toilet Tripe . • Useful Hints Veal Vegetables 184 234 720-724 797-803 656-719 264-288 738-753 103-114 780-796 31-61 62.79 416-441 647-655 289-311 754-779 617-646 828-864 865-871 129-183 80-102 516-616 115.128 404-415 347-358 312-346 442-515 1-30 725-737 891 257-263 872-890 235-256 . 359-403Mrs. MACLURCAN'S COOKERY BOOK. SOUPS. For making soups of any hind, it is advisable always to have strong stock; having that ready you can make any soup you ivish. Fleshy meat, not fat or cooked meat^ must he used for soups and gentle simmering is absolutely necessary, 1—STOCK. 4 or 5 lbs. shin beef 2 onions 2 knuckles veal 8 cloves Any trimmings of lean meat 14 to 18 pepper corns and fresh bones 2 large pieces of ginger Small bunch of herbs 1 lemon (juice) 4 or 5 carrots i lemon (rind) 4 or 5 turnips 8 quarts of cold water. Mode.—Allow the meat to stand in the water in which ■it is to boil for at least fifteen minutes, then let simmer and add the above ingredients, with the exception of the pepper and salib, which I find is better to add just before straining. Allow all to simmer for four or five hours, (more ij convenient); the longer it boils the richer the stock. This stock also serves as white stock if a little milk is added. 2—CLEAE SOUP. The above is the best stock 3^ou can have for clear soup. Strain it, and then add to the liquor the whites a-nd shells of 2 eggs well beaten together. Allow to simmer for half an hour and stiain through a fine towel or a felt bag, then add a gill of sherry and a teaspoonful of tarra- gon vinegar.Soups. 1 tablespoonful of Machonochie's sauce. 3—BAELEY BEOTH. 6 lbs. neck mutton J lb. barley 2 teaspoonsful salt 1 teaspoonful pepper 2 small pieces ginger 8 qts. milk. 6 carrots 6 turnips 2 onions 2 qts. water MoBE.—Chop the neck of mutton, washitwell, then add the water; allowing it to simmer while you prepare the vegetables aiid wash the barley; add the barley as soon as it has boiled and been skimmed ; cut the vegetables into small dice and allow all to boil for four hours, and add salt and pepper to taste. Some people like the mutton chopped very small and served with the broth, also small dough boys which makes a pleasant addition. Of course smaller quantities can be made. Mode.—Boil the stock and milk, add the liquor of the oysters, pepper and salt to taste, and then the crumbs of the bread; thicken with the cornflour, and just before serving add the oysters and allow all to simmer for 15 minutes. This soup is very quickly made when you have stock ready; some people always keep a stock pot, which is very convenient. Do not forget to add a little grated nutmeg. 2 qts. stock 1 qt. milk Pepper and salt 4—OYSTEE SOUR 6 doz. oysters A little nutmeg A slice of bread (the crumbs) 2 tablespoonsful cornflour. 5—PEA SOUP (Economical). 4 qts. water 3 lbs. split peas Piece of ham The bone of a ham is better Mint Pepper and saltSoupi Mode.—Boil the peas with the ham until they are tender, then pass through a sieve ; if too thick, add a little milk, pepper and salt to taste ; the fresh mint chopped very fine is an improvement. Sippets should be served with this soup. Sippets.—Cut the bread into dice and fry to a nice golden brown, in a small saucepan, as only a little dripping is required. 6—TOMATO SOUP. 4 good sized tomatoes 1 oz. butter 2 qts. good stock 1 onion. Mode.—The whole should be boiled until the tomatoes are reduced to a pulp (do not cut the onion but boil it whole), then take it out and strain the soup through a fine sieve. 7—EICH MULLIGATAWNY SOUP. 3 qts. white stock 2 tablespoonsful curry 1 apple powder 1 onion scalded and chopped ^ lemon (juice) 1^ ozs. butter 2 ozs. flour _ Chutney. Mode.—Put the onion (stirred), apple, chutney and curry powder in the saucepan and let them frj gently for about 20 minut^e, then gradually stir in the flour. Now add the stock and let it all boil for about half an hour j pass through a sieve and serve boiled rice with it. 8—JULIENNE SOUP. 2 qts. stock 3 carrots 3 or 4 turnips 2 onions Pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Cut the vegetables in fine pieces of an inch long and boil in the stock until thoroughly well cooked.Soups. 9— FISH STOCK. Fisli for nearly all dishes is better boned before using. It is always economy to do this, as the bones can then be used for stock for fish soup. These soups, although no*; well known, are wholesome and nourishing, and are very easily made. Mode.—After the fillets of fish are cut off as directed for frying fish, take the bones and wash them well, being careful to remove all the black substance that may adhere to them. Break them up ; put into a saucepan with a quart of water to every half pound of bones, and a teaspoonful of salt; when it boils remove the scum and put in 1 oz. of pepper corns, a bunch of herbs, and 2 carrots ; boil steadily for two hours, strain tlirough a sieve, and it is ready for use. 10— FISH SOUP. 2 qts. fish stock 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs 1 onion Chopped parsley 1 teaspoonful of butter 1 egg ^ lb. white fish (boiled) Pepper and salt. Mode.—Slice the onion very finely, put into a sauce- pan and fry with the butter; put the piece of fish when cooked into a basin, and pound up with the onion and breadcrumbs, salt, pepper and chopped parsley ; mix all together with the egg, make into small balls the size of a marble, and throw into the boiling stock, thicken with a little flour, and allow to boil for another half hour. 11--KIDNEY SOUP. 1 ox kidney 1 oz. butter 2 onions Chopped parsley 2 qts. stock. Mode.—Slice the onions and fry them in the butter, then put them into the stock ; slice the kidney very thinly, put it into the stock, and allcw it to simmer for two hours ; should it boil quickly the kidney will be like leather ; just before serving put in a tablespoonful of chopped parsley.Soups, 12—MULLIGATAWNY SOUP (Economical). 2 or 3 qts. white stock i cupful of cream or milk 2 tablespoonf als curry White flesh of a chicken powder Mushrooms. Mode.—Having the stock previously made and flavour- ed to taste, cut the breast of the chicken in small dice, with about a dozen small mushrooms, allow them to boil in the stock for half an hour. Mix the curry powder with the milk and add while boiling. Boiled rice should be served with the soup. 13_AUSTEALIAN SOUP. 1 qt. clarified brown stock 1 or 2 large tomatoes oz. tapioca Mode.—Crush the tapioca in a mortar, then add it to the boiling stock and boil until the tapioca is quite clear ; add the tomatoes, which have previously been squeezed through a sieve, 14_M0TZA KLEIZ (Jewish Cookery). 4 lbs. gravy beef (for stock) 12 pepper corns 1 bunch of turnips and 2 large motzas, or 6 thin carrots captain biscuits 2 onions ^ lb motza meal, or J- lb. 1 piece of ginger thin captain biscuits 6 cloves pounded. 2 ozs. suet or marrow 2 eggs. Parsley, marjoram, salt and pepper. Mode.—Boil the meat for four hoars, then strain and add the vegetable cut in small dice. To make the kleiz, soak the motzas in cold water and squeeze dry, then chop the onions and brown them with a few drops of oil, add them to the motzas and suet which have been previously chopped fine, then add nearly all the meal, pa];sley,^ majoram, salt, pepper and eggs well beaten. Eoll theSoups. mixture in small balls and dust round with tlie remainder of the meal; throw the balls into the boiling soup a quarter of an hour before serving. Note.—Thin captain bisouits will do instead of motzas, and pounded biscuits will do instead of the meal. 15—BECHE-DE-MEE SOUP. 4 qts. good brown stock J lb. prawns 1 chicken i tin mushrooms, or |- lb. 3 eggs (hard boiled) fresh ones. 2 onions. Mode.—Boil the chicken in the stock for an hour and a haft, then take it out and cut all the flesh into small shreds, put it into the stock again with the prawns (which should be cut up), mushrooms, sliced onions and the white of the eggs cut finely; allow all to boil until the onions are quite tender, take the yolks of the eggs and make them into small round balls mixed with a very little flour, balls to be a little larger than peas, and put in the last moment when the soup is quite ready ; add a wineglass of sherry. The Beche-de-Mer.—Half a pound is sufficient for this quantity. Before using, soak it well for three days, changing the water every four hours, and scrape it each time before putting in the clean water; then boil for three or four hours the day before using it, it ought then to be soft enough to cut; if not, boil another hour. Cut the b^che-de-mer into thin slices and put it into the soup an hour before serving, and when all is ready add a gill of sherry. 16—TUETLE SOUP. 3 or 4 qts. stock made from 3 lbs. gravy beef the turtle 3 eggs 2 carrots Mushrooms 2 turnips Green fat of turtle and cloves, pepper corns, etc., same as No. 1 stock.Soups, Mode.—To four t][uarts water add about two or three pounds of the turtle flesh (cut up) and gravy beef, together with some of the bones and fins of the turtle boil these with- the vegetables and other ingredients fo*r four hours then add three quarts of water with half a pint of vinegar and boil all for another hour, strain; have prepared some of the green fat (previously boiled for one hour), cut itin square inch pieces and with the white of hard boiled egg (cut in slices) boil with the turtle stock for half an hour ; add the liquor that the green fat was boiled in. Out some of the turtle flesh and make the yolks of the eggs into small balls, also some turtle quenelles. To Make Quenelles.—Mince the meat of the turtle that you take from the soup, mix say about four ounces meat, four ounces breadcrumbs (which have been soaked in water and wrung in a cloth), add two eggs and the yolk of one, mix thoroughly, add salt and pepper, shape the mixture in small balls the size of a nutmeg and drop into tho boiling soup and allow to boil half an hour. When the soup is ready put in the turtle flesh and egg balls and a gill of sherry. The soup should have boiled down to about four or five quarts. Do not skim off the green fat, it should always be rich. Note.—Skinner's turtle soup is very good, it can be obtained from the leading grocers in one pound and half pound tins. 17—FEIMSEL SOUP (Jewish Oookery). 3 or 4 qts. stock 1 head celery 2 turnips 1 bunch mixed herbs 3 carrots 1 lb. frimsels 1 onion 1 pinch saffron. Mode.—Out the vegetables as for Julienne soup, boil well in the stock until cooked ; half an hour before serving add the frimsels and saffron. To Make Frimsels.—Beat one egg well with a pinch of salt, then add sufficient flour to thicken it enough to roll out. Boll as thin as a water, allow to dry, then fold and cut as thin as vermicelli; add these to the soup.Soups. ; i 8—OYSTER SOUP. (Made in a quarter of an hour.) 1 pt. milk 1 teaspoonful parsley 1 pt. water Salt and pepper 6 doz. oysters 1 biscuit (plain). Small piece of butter ; thicken with a little cornflour. Mode.—Boil the milk and water and add the pepper, sfilt, and the biscuit pounded up, thicken with a little corn- flour, add the oysters, parsley, and a little nutmeg, also the butter ; stir well and serve at once. 19—LOBSTEE OE CEAB SOUP. 1: crab or lobster i pt. milk 2 qts. fish stock Juice of 1 lemon Salt and pepper Parsley Mode.—Pick all the flesh from the lobster or crab, boil it in the milk for half an hour, then add the stock,. squeeze into it a lemon, allow it to simmer until required, thicken with a little cornflour, and just before serviDg add the parsley. North Queensland Meat Export Company's Liebig's Extract of Beef. In private houses where there are not many servants kept, Liebig's Extract of Meat is most useful for cooking purposes in every way ; it gives very little trouble for soup making, entrees, gravies, sandwiches and many other things. It saves time, money, and in many cases temper. It promotes the appetite and assists digestion. No house should be without it. It is especially attractive to the capricious appetite of an invilid. It is already recognised by the cooks of the leading hotels, as well as housekeepers in private life, especially in summer when we have such very hot weather, as being always ready and good.Soyps. 20—GIBLET SOUP. 2 sets giblets 1 carrot 1 turnip 1 onion 2 qts. water 8 peppercorns 4 cloves 1 hard boiled egg 1 tablespoonful of N,Q.M.E. Co.'s Liebig',* Extract of Meat. Mode.—Wash and clean the giblets, scald the feet and remove the outer skins, chop up the neck and the giblets into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with the water, peppercorns and cloves. Slice the vegetables very small and tie up in a piece of muslin, and when the water is boiling, put them in with the giblets and a bunch of sweet herbs, allow them to boil for three hours, then remove the vegetables. Put the flour and butter into a pan and when brown add a little of the soup ; stir well, then pour it back into the saucepan and add the Liebig; salt to taste. Mix the yolk of the egg with a little flour and salt, make into small balls the size of a pea and cut up the white into small strips, and when you have put the soup into a tureen add the egg and serve at once. 21—CLEAE GEAYY SOUP. 3 qts. water 2 carrots 1 turnip 1 onion J teaspoonful peppeix^orns 1 piece of ginger 4 cloves A few sweet herbs A ham bone White and shell of one egg 1 tablespoonful N.Q.M.E. Co.'s Liebig's Extract of Meat. Mode.—Cut up the vegetables (not too fine), put into a saucepan with the water, ham bone, cloves, peppercorns, ginger and herbs. Allow all to boil for an hour, then beat up the white and shell of the egg ^ and add to the stock, allow it to simmer for five minutes, then strain through a clean towel; if not clear the first time the process of straining must be gone through again. Put it back into the saucepan with the Liebig's Extract of Meat and simmer until required. Vegetables may be cut into fancy shapes and served with the soup.Soups. 22—OX TAIL SOUP. 1 ox tail 2 carrots 1 turnip Peppercorns 1 onion stuck with cloves Salt and 2 qts. water A teaspoonful N.Q.M.E. Co.'s Liebig's Extract ot Meat. Mode.—Eemove the surplus fat from the tail, divide the small joints and chop very srhall the larger ones, put into a saucepan with the water, and the vegetables (not cut up), peppercorns and a little salt; allow it to boil for three hours, remove carefully the fat and take out the vegetables ; make a little flour brown and thicken the soup then add the teaspoonful of N.Q.M.E. Cb.'s Liebig's Extract. 23—VEGETABLE SOUP. 2 qts water 2 turnips 2 carrots 1 onion 4 eschalots A bunch of sweet herbs Stalk of one cabbage Salt A tablespoonful N.Q.M.E. Co.'s Liebig's Extract of Meat. Mode.—Cut all the vegetables very fine, put into a saucepan with the water, salt and peppercorns tied up in a piece of muslin. Allow them to boil for an hour, then add the extract of beef and remove the peppercorns ; add a little more salt if required. 24—PEA SOUP. 1 pt. split peas 2 carrots A ham bone or a smoked 1 qt. water sausage 1 onion A bunch of sweet herbs Finely chopped mint A teaspoonful N.Q.M.E. Co.^s Liebig's Extract of Meat. Mode.—Soak the peas in a jpot of water over night, then put them into a saucepan with another pint of water,Soups. the onion, ham bone, carrot (chopped finely), and herbs. Boil all for two hours, then pass through a colander until nothing but the husks remain ; put back into the saucepan ; if too thick add half a pint of boiling water with, the Liebig^s; chop the mint very finely, then boil for another ten minutes. Serve with it fried bread cut into dice (sippets). 25—POTATO SOUP. No. 1. 1 lb. sbin of beef 1 lb. potatoes 1J onions Three quarts water J pt. split peas Salt and black pepper 1 head of celery. Mode.—Cut the beef into small pieces, cliop up the potatoes and onions, and put them on in a saucepan with the water, split peas, celery, pepper and salt, allow it to stew gently for three and a half to four hours, strain it off, take out the beef and pulp the other ingredients through, a sieve; put the pulp back in the soup ; then it is ready for use, 26—SHEEP'S HEAD BEOTH (Economical). 1 sbeeps head 2 carrots i cupful of barley 1 turnip Pepper and salt 1 onion 2J qts. water. Mode.—Wash, the head nicely and put it into a saucepan with the water, salt and pepper, allow it to boil until the meat will leave the bone easily. Take out the head and put in the barley, carrots, turnip and onion (cut into small pieces) and boil for two hours. Cut some of the flesh and brains into small dice shaped pieces and put them into the broth just before serving. The remainder of the head can be used for Braized Sheeps Head, Fricassee Sheeps Head and various other dishes.27—KANGAEEOO TAIL SOUP. 1 kangaroo tail 2 carrots 2 lbs. gravy beef 2 turnips 1 glass port wine 6 cloves Pepper and salt 2 pieces ginger A small lemon 2 qts. water Mode.—Chop the tail into small pieces and put it into a saucepan with the beef cut very small, and pepper and salt, allow it to boil for two hours and then , strain. Put the soup back into the saucepan; pick out the smaller pieces of the tail and add to the soup with the carrots and turnips (cut up very fiinely), the cloves and ginger (pounded), wine, and juice of half a lemon ; boil until the vegetables are well cooked. Serve with sippets. 28—ONION SOUP. 4 onions Pepper and salt 2 qts. white stock A little flour A little milk. Mode.—Slice the onions and put into a small saucepan with the milk and boil for an hour ; then add the stock, pepper and salt; when boiling thicken with a little flour. This soup may be made with milk only instead of stock. 29—OELEEY SOUP. 2 qts. good stock Pepper and salt 6 or 8 sticks of celery Butter 1 onion 1 turnip Mode.—Slice and chop the onion very finely and put it into a saucepan with a little water, allow it to cook for ten minutes but take care it does not brown ; then pour in the stock. Chop up the turnip into small dice shaped pieces, cut the celery very finely and add these to the stock with pepper and salt to taste ; allow it to boil for an hour and a half.Soups. 30—POTATO SOUP. No. 2. 2 qts white stock i lb. potatoes Pepper and salt 2 carrots 1 turnip J pt. milk Sippets of toast or fried bread. Mode.—Boil the potatoes, carrots and turnip in the stock for an hour and a half, then rub all through a sieve, return it to the saucepan and add the milk ; allow it to come to the boil and serve with sippets.FISH. When buying fish always hole at the gills and see that they are a nice hright fresh looking color; should they he dull and of a greyish hole, you may he sure that the fish is not fresh. It is no use trying to cooh fish nicely^ unless fresh. 31—TO BOIL ANY FISH. Mode.— Clean the fish and wasli nicely in fresh cold water, then put in a fish-saucepan and cover with water, add salt according to the size of the fish, and a little vinegar (about half a pint to a gallon of water); it is a good thing to put in the water as it makes the fish white and firm. Of course the time is according to the size of the fish. When the flesh is soft enough to allow a fork to touch the bone the fish is cooked. 32—FEIED FISH. 4 lbs. fish Flour or breadcrumbs 2 eggs Salt Boiling dripping or oil. Mode.—Get a fresh fish about four or five pounds weight, clean the fish and wash in cold water, then bone it and cut into nice cutlets ; be sure to wipe it dry with a clean cloth. Beat up the eggs in a soup plate and have some flour ready. Salt the fish, put it in the flour, shake it so that there is not too much flour, then put it into the egg, take it out of that and put it into the boiling fat or oil which must be enough to well cover the fish, and fry for five minutes. Some people like it in breadcrumbs; then put the fish into the breadcrumbs after the egg.Fish. The Jewisli people seldom use breadcrumbs, and always the best olive oil. Put the fish when cooked on a sheet of nice white paper and allow to get cold. 33—FEIED WHITING. Mode.—Same as recipe No. 32. The whiting is very nice skinned and their tails put in their mouths and fried with the breadcrumbs. 34—BAEEAMUNDI "A LA NOEMANDIE.'' Mode.—Boil the fish and remove the skin, then cover the fish evenly with the following preparation :— To the yolks of three eggs add a wineglassf ul of white sauce, one ounce of grated cheese, juice of a lemon, a tea- spoonful anchovy sauce, and a little nutmeg and pepper. Stir this over the fire until it begins to thicken, then spread it over the fish. Shake over the surface the whites of two hard-boiled eggs and yolks rubbed through a sieve with a dessert- spoonful of cheese. Twenty minutes before dinner put in the oven to heat thoroughly and brown ; serve with prawn sauce. 35—EEOWN STEWED FISH. J lb. dark treacle 1 dessertspoonful vinegar f pt. porter 2 onions 3 lemons (juice) 1 teaspoonful ground 4 lbs. fish ginger Nutmeg, allspice, cloves, pepper and salt. Mode.—Choose four pounds of nice fresh fish, wash and dry thoroughly. Stew a crust of bread and the onions in the porter with the herbs. When tender take out the crust and put in the fish with the spices, and continue to add the treacle slowly until the fish is nicely cooked; serve cold with slices of lemon.Fish. 36—STEWED FISH (Jewish.) With Lemon Sauce. 1 large fish •3 onions 6 cloves 2 pieces of ginger 2 ozs. butter 6 lemons (juice) 6 eggs 12 peppercorns 1 teaspoonful salt 1 bunch parsley Mode.—Cut the onions in thin slices, put in the saucepan with the ginger, butter and peppercorns, allow them to simmer until the onions are well cooked, then cut the fish into pieces about four inches square, and lay on top ; just cover all wi i water and allow to simmer until the fish is cooked. While it is cooking beat up the eggs in a basin and squeeze the lemons into another. Chop up the parsley fine and mix it with the lemon, and to the lemon add a good cupful of the stock from the fish, then pour the egg into the basin containing the lemon juice (should you put the lemon into the egg it will curdle) and stir all the one way. Pour the whole of the mixture into the saucepan with the fish and allow to simmer for five minutes ; put into a large basin to get cool. This should be served cold. Mode.—Slice the onions, put into a saucepan with the butter, ginger, cloves, whole pepper, and cook for half an hour; while cooking clean the fish and cut into pieces about four inches square, lay the fish in the stewpan, cover with water, add pepper and salt to taste, stew for twenty minutes ; keep the stewpan closed all the time ; a few herbs are an improvement. 37—SAYOUEY STEWED FISH. 1 fish (about 4 or 5 lbs.) 6 cloves 2 large onions 1 oz. butter 1 piece of ginger J oz. whole ginger38—SCALLOPED FISH. Remains of cold boiled fisli Breadcrumbs 1 cupful of white sauce Anchovy sauce 9 tablespoonfuls butter Pepper and salt Mode.—^Pick the fish from the bones and place in a pie dish with the white sauce, pepper, salt, and a table- spoonful of anchovy sauce, mix well together, spread the breadcrumbs over, then the butter, and bake until a nice brown. \ , 39—FISH SOUFFLE. The remains of cold fish Butter 2 or 3 slices of bread Pepper 2 eggs Salt 1 gill of milk. Mode.—Soak the bread in milk, squeeze out and mix well with the fish, beat up the eggs separately (yolks and whites). Mix the yolks with the fish thoroughly, then beat the whites to a stiff froth and add to the other ; butter some souffle cases and fill them, bake in a smart oven for ten minutes ; salt and pepper to taste. 40—FISH **A LA BOHEMIENE." Remains cold fish 2 tablespoonfuls grated 3 tomatoes cheese 1 onion 1 tablespoonful butter Cayenne pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Fry the onion a nice brown, scald the toma- toes and cook with the onion. Pick the fish free from bones and place in a pie dish, mix the onions and tomatoes and half the cheese, then mix altogether w^ith the fish, pepper and salt to taste, smooth it all in the pie dish, sprinkle over with breadcrumbs and bake a nice brown, oFish. Remains cold ash Breadcrumbs 1 potato 41—FISH BALLS. 2 eggs Pepper and salt Anchovy Mode.—Pick the fish and mix with the breadcrumbs and potato (previously mashed), mix all with one or two eggs, according to the quantity, pepper and salt; a little anchovy is an improvement; mix and shape into nice balls, dip into egg and breadcrumbs and fry in plenty of boiling fat. 42—GEILLED FISH AND SAUCE GENEYIEYE. Mode.—Either large ot small fish can be nicely grilled ; if large, bone and cut into slices of an inch thick. If whiting or gard fish, open down the back and flatten out. Score the fish slightly with a sharp knife and put butter in, and pepper and salt. Grill slowly on a ilice clear fire. Cornflour. Mode.—Mix altogether and boil, then thicken with a little cornflour and serve with fish, very hot. Mode.—^Clean and dry the fish well, boil two onions, then chop them up and mix with breadcrumbs, pepper and salt, moisten with butter or milk, not egg ; add a table- spoonful of mixed herbs (thyme and marjarom) and chopped parsley. Stuff the fish and lay it in a baking tin, with plenty of dripping, cover it with breadcrumbs and bake; keep basting it from time to time so that it does not gjBt too dry. - v SAUCE. i lb. butter 4 tablespoonfuls anchovy sauce 2 tablespoonful tomato sauce Cayenne pepper 43—BAKED FISH.Fish. 44_FISH CAKES. 1 lb. cold fish 1 oz. clarified butter 2 ozs. breadcrumbs ^ teaspoonful chopped 2 eggs parsley Salt and pepper to taste. Mode.—Pound the white flesh of the fish, mixing into it the clarified butter and breadcrumbs, also the parsley, salt and pepper, bind with the yolk of an egg well beaten ; shape into neat rounds or flat cakes. Dip into a beaten egg, then in fine breadcrumbs ; and fry in boiling fat. 45_SOUSED FISH. 1 fish about 4 lbs. Spice (white) ; 2 onions Ginger Cloves Vinegar Mode.—Put the fish (when nicely cleaned) in a baking tin or a pie dish large enough to hold it easily, cover with vinegar, cut up the onions in thin slices, put them on the fish with the cloves, spice and ginger, bake until the fish is well cooked; allow to get cold, put on a dish with the vinegar and garnish with cucumber and tomatoes. 46—FISH LA CEEME.'' 1 bream or any nice white 1 tablespoonful butter fish ^ oz. bacon fat 1 teaspoonful of parsley 1 gill gravy 1 small onion J cupful of breadcrumbs Mode.—Slice the onion and fry in a little of the butter, clean the flsh and take out the bone, cut it in nice fillets, put a layer in a pie dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper, put on some pieces of bacon fat, half the bread- crumbs and half the onion, then another layer of fish, bacon, onion, salt and pepper, pour over it the gravy, then cover with the remainder of the breadcrumbs, put the rest of the butter on in small pieces and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour.Fish. 47—WHITING IN BUTTEE. 4 whiting Pepper and salt Butter Juice of ^ a lemon. Mode.—Clean and skin'the whiting, put their tails m their mouths, lay them in a baking tin, squeeze the lemon over them, pepper and salt them to taste,, put a piece of butter on each and bake for twenty minutes. 48—OUEEIED FISH. 4 lbs. fish 1 onion 1 tablespoonful butter 1 teaspoonful of Maconochie's Worcester sauce 1 tablespoonful cocoanut 1 tablespoonful chutney 2 tablespoonfuls curry powder Mode.—Bone the fish, and while you are preparing the curry put the bones on in half a pint of water and half a teaspoonful of salt, slice the onion and put it in a saucepan with the butter ; when well cooked add the cocoanut, chutney, sauce and curry powder, stir them together for about five minutes, strain the liquor from the bones and mix it with the other ingredients ; now cut the fish into pieces about two inches square and boil altogether from fifteen to twenty minutes. Cold fish caa be used for this as well as fresh. 49—STEWED FISH IN MILK. 3 lbs. fish Salt and pepper 1 tablespoonful chopped 1 pt. milk parsley 1 teaspoonful butter 1 onion Cornflour Mode.—Slice the onion and put it on to boil with the milk ; when the onion is quite cooked cut up the fish and put into the milk with the butter, pepper and salt; when the fish is cooked, add the parsley and thicken with a little cornflour.Fish. 50- -riSH PIE—No. 1. Eemains of cold fisK Salt and pepper Cold cooked potatoes Anchovy sauce Butter Mode.—Flake the fish, place it in a well-buttered pie - dish, put over it two tablespoonfuls of anchovy sauce, and slice a few potatoes and la}^ over the fish, cover with a buttered paper and bake for twenty minutes. 51— STEAMED FISH. 1 or 2 fish 1 oz. butter 1 lemon Parsley Salt. Mode.—Skin and fillet the fish, well butter a feoup plate and lay the fillets of fish, squeeze over it a few drops of lemon juice and sprinkle with a little salt, cover with another soup plate and stand over a saucepan of boiling water to steam for ten minutes, then quickly turn upside down and steam another ten minutes, place on a hot clish and pour the melted butter that is in the plate over the fish, garnish with parsley and sliced lemon. 52—FISH AND LEMON SAUCE. Fresh fish 1 oz butter 1 tablespoonful ground 3 eggs ginger 3 cloves 1 onion Parsley 4 or 5 lemons Pepper 1 tablespoonful flour 3alt. Mode.—Bone and fillet the fish in neat pieces about three inches square, place with the skin side down in a stewpan, then squeeze a few drops of lemon juice over, and just cover with water; stick the cloves in the onion and place it in the stewpan whole, sprinkle in the ginger, pepper and salt, cover the stewpan and let simmer gently for about twenty minutes, shaking the saucepan occasion-Fish. ally; wlien milk white the fish is cooked. While the fish is cooking beat the yolks of the eggs well and squeeze and strain the juice of the lemons. Take out the fish when quite cooked and keep it hot, then strain the gravy and let it get a little cool, place the butter in a small saucepan, when dissolved stir in the flour, cook for a minute or two without browning, pour the strained gravy into the beaten yolks, stirring well, and then pour this into the saucepan, stir quickly until thoroughly smooth, and continue stirring until it comes to boiling point and becomes quite thick, then take off the fire. Immediately add tho juice of the lemons and pour over the fish, which must be neatly arranged on a hot dish. Grarnish with slices of lemon and finely chopped parsley. Mode.—Boil the macaroni in salted water until quite tender, and then strain the water off. Flake the fish and be sure it is free from bones ; have ready some nice white sauce ; if fish stock is available make the sauce with equal quantities of stock and milk ; season it well. Butter a pie dish and put in a layer of macaroni, then a layer of fish, sprinkle wifh lemon juice and cover with white sauce; add more macaroni and continue in layers until the dish is full; each layer must be seasoned with pepper and salt. Have the last layer of macaroni covered with breadcrumbs, and place butter in small pieces over the top, bake for half an hour and brown delicately. Garnish with lemon and serve cut lemon at the table as well; serve very hot. , 53—FISH AND MACAEONI Cold cooked fish 1 lemon 2 ozs. butter Pepper Salt White sauce 3 ozs. macaroni 2 ozs. breadcrumbsFish. 54—FISH A LA VIOTOEIA/' 2 lbs. white fish J cup of milk 2 tablespoonfuls butter Pepper and salt 1 tablespoonful chopped 2 ozs. breadcrumbs, parsley Mode.—Out the fish into nice fillets, roll and dip into the milk, pack them tightly in a pie dish ; then sprinkle "with pepper, salt and parsley. Cover with the bread- crumbs, and over this put the butter in small pieces (one piece on each piece of the fish); bake for twenty minutes; serve at once. 55—FISH PIE—Fo. 2. Cooked fish 1 lemon Cooked potatoes 1 egg Parsley sauce Pepper 1 oz. butter Salt Milk. MoDE.-^Masli the potatoes smoothly with butter, pepper, salt, and a tablespoonful of milk, flake the fish with two forks, removing skin and bones ; have a buttered pie dish ready, put the fish in, squeeze a little lemon juice over, then season with pepper and salt, and pour over it some thick parsley sauce, cover with the potato mixture, smooth the top and ornament with a knife, brush over with beaten egg, bake in a steady oven three quarters of an hour; serve very hot. 56—BAEEAMUNDI AU GEATIN.*' 4 lbs. barramundi (or any 1 tablespoonful butter other fish) 1 teaspoonful chopped par- 2 onions sley 2 tomatoes 1 gill grav}' 1 cupful of breadcrumbs. Mode.—Slice the onion and cook it in a small sauce- pan with the butter; clean and cut the fish, put it into aFish. saucepan with tlie onion, gravy, tomatoes, and half a pint of water, salt and pepper to taste ; when the fish is cooked take it up and place it in an entree dish; put the bread- crumbs into the gravy and simmer for five minutes, pour over the fish and serve at once. 57__SAVOUEY BOILED FISH. 4 lbs. fish i oni®n 1 pt. of water 1 tablespoonful vinegar ^ a teaspoonful flour Salt and black pepper. Mode.—Clean and^skin the fish, cut in pieces about four inches square. Put the water, onion, vinegar, salt and pepper into a saucepan and boil until the onion is tender; flour each piece of fish and add to the other ingredients, and allow it to simmer until the fish is cooked, which will be about fifteen to twenty minutes ; thicken the gravy with a little flour and pour over the fish. 58—BEOWN STEWED FISH. 4 lbs. fish 2 large onions ^ lb. ginger bread Water ^ a cup of vinegar ^ lb. treacle. Mode.—Place the onions (which are to be sliced) in a saucepan, with about a pint of water ; let them boil well, the^n put the fish in (nicely sliced, but not too small); let them remain on the fire until the fish is cooked. Have ready in a basin the ginger bread, which should be well soaked by that time, having the vinegar and treacle with it; then add this to the fish and stir until it is a little thick, then dish it up, and to be eaten when cold. 59—MOCK WHITEBAIT, 2 lbs. white fish 2 eggs Flour Lemon Boiling fat Cayenne Brown bread and butter.Fish. Mode.—Flake up any nice white fish, cooked or uncooked (though, of course, the raw fish is the best), into neat little pieces the size of a whitebait, sprinkle it with a little salt, then shake flour over them until each piece is well covered, toss them into the eggs (which have been well beaten), have ready the pan with plenty of boiling fat, then plunge them in a frying basket, into the fat, till they are lightly browned; serve at once very hot, with lemon and brown bread and butter handed round with them. 60—STEWED FISH AND KLEIZ. 3 lbs. fish 1 pt. of milk 1 onion Parsley 2 eggs 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls flour Salt and pepper. Mode.—Slice the onion and put it on in a stewpan with the milk, salt and pepper, and allow it to simmer gently until the onion is quite tender. Clean the fish and cut it up into fillets, the same as you wou.ld for frying, put it into the milk and stew gently for half an hour; beat up the egg and make a batter with the flour and a little salt, drop a teaspoonful of this into the fish while it is boiling, and boil for twenty minutes, and just before serving add the parsley. 61—FISH AND OYSTER PIE. 1 lb, cold fish J a bottle of oysters 1 cupful of white sauce 1 teaspoonful chopped par- Pepper and salt sley Breadcrumbs Puff paste Butter. Mode.—Pick the fish from the bones and put half into a well-buttered pie dish; then put a layer of oysters, a little parsley, salt and pepper and half the white sauce j then add the remainder of the fish, oysters, white sauce,Fish. parsley, etc.; cover with breadcrumbs, place pieces of butter over the top. Eoll out the paste and cut it into narrow strips, twist and lay them across the top, then place some more strips the opposite way. Bake for fifteen or twenty minutes.TINNED FISH. On Stations and Inland towns where fresh fish of any hind is scarce, it is always handy to have a few recipes for making dishes of tinned Fish. 62—TINNED SALMON EISSOLES. 1 tin salmon 4 boiled potatoes 2 eggs Tablespoonful Anchovy A little butter Sauce A little milk Pepper and salt. Mode.—Boil the potatoes and mash them with a little butter and milk, then mix well with them the salmon and the whole of one egg and part of another, make into nice shaped balls and dip them in the remainder of the egg, which has been beaten up; roll in bread crumbs and fry a golden brown. 63—SALMON SOUFFLE. 1 tin salmon A cupful of white sauce 3 eggs Cayenne and salt to taste And a little cold rice. Mode.—Pound the salmon in a mortar until quite smooth, then add the white sauce and rice, and mix well; beat up the eggs separately, add the yolks, pepper and salt, then add the whites, beaten to a stiff froth, turn into a pie-dish and bake. 64—DEVILLED SAEDINES. 1 tin sardines A little mustard A teaspoonful chutney Two teaspoonf uls salad oil And a few drops Worcester sauce.Tinned Fish, Mode.—Mix all the ingredients together in a basin, then skin the sardines and roll them in the mixture, afterwards lay them on pieces of bread, which have been fried in boiling fat, put in the oven until they look crisp and serve. 65—HADDOCK SOUFFLE 1 tin haddocks 2 eggs A little white sauce Pepper and salt And some cold boiled rice. Mode.—Bone the haddocks, and mix in a mortar until quite smooth, then add the white sauce, and the yolks of the eggs, well beaten, and the pepper and salt; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth; mix altogether and place in a pie-dish, bake for twenty minutes. This mixed with well-boiled rice and a little butter is very nice. 66- COD'S ROE AND CEEAM. 1 tin cod's roes 1 cupful of cream or Cayenne and salt white sauce 1 egg Juice of two lemons. Mode.—1 tin soft cod's roes, put into a mortar and pound well; pick out all the skin ; then add the juice of the lemons, and cayenne and salt. Boil all with the cream, thicken with an egg well beaten. Serve on hot buttered toast. 67—LOBSTEE CUTLETS. 1 tin lobsters A cupful of white sauce 2 eggs Salt and pepper And breadcrumbs. Mode.—Mix up the lobster with the white sauce and one egg, well beaten, and pepper and salt to taste ; allow to stand until cold, roll out on a floured board, and shape into cutlets; dip in egg and then breadcrumbs and fry in boiling fat; also fry some strips of bread and serve with the cutlets. "~ ^ "Tinned Fish. 68—CUEEIED LOBSTEE. 1 tin lobsters ^ pt. milk 1 onion Cloves Curry powder Coeoanut Butter. Mode. —Slice and fry the onion in the butter ; and the cloves, coeoanut and curry powder; allow these to simmer about ten minutes, then add the milk and boil; when boiling add the lobster, and serve with boiled rice. 69—SAEDINE FEITTEES. 1 tin sardines 2 eggs Flour Pepper. Mode—Make a batter of the two eggs and flour, sprinkle the sardines with cayenne and juice of a lemon, dip each one in the batter and fry a golden brown. Have your pan full of boiling clarified dripping. 70—FEIED HADDOCKS. 1 tin haddocks 2 eggs • . Breadcrumbs. Mode.—Cut the haddocks in nice small pieces ; dip in egg and breadcrumbs and fry. 71_SAyOIJEY OF TINNED HADDOCKS. 1 tin haddocks , ^ pt. cream or white sauce 2 eggs Cayenne Lemon. Mode.—Pound the haddocks up in a mortar, remove any bones, add the cream and eggs well beaten up, and then a saltspoon of cayenne and juice of a lemon. Place in a pie-dish and bake for 15 minutes. Serve very hot.Tinned Fish, 1 tin salmon 72—GEILLED SALMON. Butter Tissue paper. Mode.—Turn out the salmon, pick out tlie firm pieces and roll in the tissue paper well buttered, put on the grill over a clear fire, allow to grill for ten minutes. Serve on croutons ; sprinkle a little chopped parsley over the fish. 73—SALMON MAEBLES AND LEMON SAUCE. Mode.—Turn out the salmon, pick out all the bones and pieces of skin, pound up with the breadcrumbs, a little cayenne and the chopped parsley, mix with one egg and form into small balls not larger than a marble or pigeon's egg. Cut the onion into very small pieces, and put in a saucepan with a little butter, allow it to cook, then add the liquor from the tin of salmon with about half-a-pint of water, season rather highly with pepper and salt. When boiling drop in the salmon marbles and boil for ten minutes; take them out very carefully and put on a dish in the oven ; then beat up the other three eggs and add the juice of three lemons ; beat well, and add them to the gravy; give them a boil, stirring all the time; pour it over the marbles and serve very hot. 1 tin salmon Butter Cayenne Juice three lemons 4 eggs Half a cupful breadcrumbs 1 onion 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 74-FEITTEES OF TINNED SALMON 1 tin salmon Breadcrumbs A little flour 4 eggs Mince parsley Pepper and salt.Tinned Fish. Mode.—Open the tin of salmon and turn out into a colander to strain, pick out all the bones and skin, beat up the eggs. Mix a little flour not more than a teaspoonful, and half a cup of breadcrumbs, season with pepper and salt, then mix with the eggs, etc., the salmon and chopped parsley. Have ready some boiling dripping, and drop a large tablespoonful of the mixture into the boiling fat, and fry until a nice golden brown. 75—SCALLOPED LOBSTER. 1 tin lobster Juice of a lemon ^ pt. of white sauce Cayenne Cupful breadcrumbs 1 tablespoonful of butter. Mode.—Butter some scallop shells or patty pans, mix in a basin the lobster, white sauce, lemon juice and add cayenne to taste. Fill each of the shells or tins with the mixture ; cover with breadcrumbs, and on each put a little butter; iDake for about ten minutes or until they are nice and brown. Serve at once. 76—HADDOCKS A LA BOHEMIENNE. 1 tin haddocks 3 tomatoes 1 onion Cayenne - Juice of a lemon 1 egg Breadcrumbs and butter. Mode.—Slice the onion very finely, put in a pie-dish with about a dessertspoonful of butter; put this in the oven and allow it to cook for about ten or fifteen minutes; in the meantime turn out the haddocks and remove all the skin and bones, sprinkle with cayenne and the juice of the lemon ; slice the tomatoes and put about half of them in with the onions, then add all the haddocks ; cover with the remainder of the tomatoes, beat up the egg with a little milk and pour over the lot, then cover with the breadcrumbs j put pieces of butter on and bake for fifteen minutes.Tinned Fish. 77- ~SALMON AU GEATIN. 1 tin salmon 1 oz. of grated clieese 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar 1 teacup of breadcrumbs 2 tablespoonfuls of oil 1 tablespoonful of butter Cayenne. Mode.—Put the salmon into a pie-disb, then mix the oil, vinegar and salmon well together, and pour over the salmon; then shake over the grated cheese and tastily cover with the breadcrumbs ; place pieces of butter on the top and bake for twenty minutes. 78- -PICKLED HEEEINGS. 6 salt herrings 1 onion 1 cupful of vinegar Teaspoonful of pepper- 2 apples corns. Mode.—First soak the herrings for an hour. Then slice the onion and apples and place in a jar with the vinegar, pepper corns and herrings (if there are any soft roes chop finely and put in the jar also), fasten down and ihey are ready for use in three days. 79—SPEATS (A nice way of cooking). 1 tin sprats 1 wineglassful of good ToasSt whisky. Mode.—Place three or four sprats on a plate about an inch apart; then place another layer the opposite way, and so on till you have four layers; pour the whisky over the sprats and light it; allow it to burn out; carefully place the sprats on hot toast and serve.OYSTERS. In coohing oysters it is ivise to keep all the liquor hehngi^ig to them for use in cooking ; he sure they are perfectly fresh. 80-^STEWED OYSTERS I doz. oysters . A little parsley Cupful of milk Cornflour Pepper and salt, butter. Mode.—Boil the milk ajid thicken with a little corn- flour, then add the oysters and liquor, pepper and salt; and last^ the parsley and butter. Serve very hot. 81-^FEIED OYSTEES. 1 doz. large oysters Egg Breadcrumbs Flour Pepper and salt Boiling dripping. Mode.—Pick out a dozen large oysters and thpow them into a nice clean towel, then sprinkle them with flour, shake them well, until well, but not thickly covered with the flour, salt and pepper them, and throw them into the egg which has been well beaten, then into the In'oad- crumbs; pick them out singly with a sharp-plated skewer and put them into the boiling fat in a frying basket, and fry a nice brown. 82~CUREIED OYSTEES. 2^or 3 doz. oysters Tablespoonful chutney and I'^large onion curry powder 9Jcloves Tablespoonful cocoanut 1 piece ginger Lemon 1 apple Butter. Mode.—Slice the onion very thin, put it into the sswice- pan with the butter ; when cooked add the ginger, cloves,Oysters, apple and small piece of rind of lemon all chopped very fine; when these are cooked add the curry powder ; now add the liquor off the oysters ; if that is not enough add a little milk and the cocoanut; just before serving put in the oysters. Some people like a little garlic, which is an improvement, a very small piece about the size of a pea chopped up is sufficient. 83—DEVILLED OYSTERS. 2 doz. oysters Saltspoonful cayenne 2 tablespoonfuls curry Juice of a lemon powder 1 tablespoonful anchovy i lb. butter The yolks of 2 eggs and 1 1 tablespoonful Worcester white shire sauce Add ^ pt. milk. Mode.—Mix into a basin the butter, curry powder, sauce, cayenne and the lemon juice ; when all are well mixed add the eggs well beaten up. Put on the fire to cook; when warm add the milk slowly, thicken with a little cornflour, and just before serving add the oysters. Rice can be served with this as well as curry. 84— SAYOURY OYSTERS. 1 doz. oysters 1 oz. or more of butter 2 ozs. ^our ^ pt. milk 2 eggs Cayenne and salt to taste Juice of 1 lemon. Mode.—Carefully beard the oysters and scald them in their own liquor, then put the flour and butter in a saucepan, add the oysters and milk, and stir till boiling, then put in the eggs well beaten. Butter moulds ; fill them and steam them gently for twenty minutes. 85— OYSTER BASKETS. 6 good sized tomatoes 2 doz. oysters stewed. Mode.—Scoop out the tomatoes, have the oysters stewed according to previous recipe, only made a littleOysters. thicker. The tomato that has been taken from the cases can be used if wished, which is decidedly an improvement. Fill the tomatoes with the above and place in an oven until well heated through; do not allow the tomatoes to cook. Get a stick from the parsley to form a handle. Serve on fried croutons, put anchovy and some mince bacon on top. Serve hot. 86—OYSTER A L'ESPAGNOLE. J lb. butter 2 doz. oysters 3 tomatoes 1 onion Cayenne Lemon 2 eggs Cupful breadcrumbs. Mode.—Cook the onion well in the butter and strain ; throw the onion away and in the same butter cook the tomatoes ; when done put in a pie dish with the oysters and breadcrumbs, lemon juice, cayenne, and eggs well beaten, and bake until brown. 87--OYSTEE PATTIES. Puff paste 1 egg 2 doz. oysters stewed. Mode.—Some nice puff paste cut with a special round shape, and with a smaller one cut the centre of the paste, be careful not to cut it right through, when baked remove the centre piece without breaking the pastry and scoop out the centre and fill up with the stewed oysters (chop up a hard boiled egg and add to the stew), then lay on the piece of paste you have removed and keep warm in a moderate oven. 88—OYSTERS AU BEURRE. 2 doz. oysters Juice of a lemon Cayenne J lb. butter Tablespoonful white sauce. Mode.—Put the butter, lemon juice and cayenne in a saucepan and allow it to boil; then add the oysters and white sauce. Serve on toast with slice of lemon on top.OyHters. 89— ~OYSTEE FEITTEES. 2 doz. oysters Cupful of flour 2 eggs A little milk Pepper and salt. Mode.—Beat up the eggs and milk well, then add the flour slowly and mix until a nice soft batter without lumps ; add the oysters, pepper and salt. Have ready a panful of boiling fat, put in spoonfuls of the mixture and fry a nice brown. 90— OYSTER OMELETT. 3 eggs 1 doz. oysters Pepper and salt. Mode.—Beat separately the yolks and whites of the eggs, put the oysters into the yolks, and at the last minute add the whites and beat well; pour in a nice clean pan that has been rubbed with a little bacon fat ; shake the pan a little to prevent it from sticking, turn up one half and allow it to brown nicely. Serve very hot on a nicely folded serviette. 91— OYSTEE COCKTAIL. 2 doz. large tomatoes J pt. vinegar 2 tablespoonfuls Worcester- Teaspoonful cayenne shire sauce 2 eggs ^ pt. anchovy sauce. Mode.—Boil the tomatoes to a pulp, then strain and add the other ingredients, beat up the two eggs and boil altogether, allow to get cool. This sauce is served in a small bowl with fresh oysters ; a splendid appetiser. 92—SCALLOPED OYSTEES. 2 doz. oysters Butter, pepper and salt J pt. white sauce Breadcrumbs. Mode.—Put about six oysters into each scalloped shell, cover with white sauce, a little chopped parsley,Oysters. season with pepper and salt, cover witli breadcrumbs, and put small pieces of butter on each. Bake until a nice brown. 93—OYSTEES IN OASES. 2 doz, oysters 1 egg Cayenne Juice of lemon Cupful of white sauce in which the liquor of the oysters has been put. Mode.—Put the 03^sters, salt and juice of the lemon in the white sauce, beat up the yolk of an egg and add all to the white sauce, fill so^affle cases, then cover each with breadcrumbs and a piece of butter. Brown under a grill or a salamander. 94_OYSTEES IN SHELLS. Mode.- Place the oysters (in their shells) upon a grill over a sharp fire; when the shell opens turn over into the deep shell and add a small piece of butter, pepper and salt; serve about six to each person. 95—OYSTEE AU OEATIN. 2 doz. oysters 1 egg Grated cheese Bread. Mode.—Dust your oysters quite dry with flour, * pepper and salt, then wash with the egg, drop them into boiling lard in a frying basket. Take them out, fry your bread in small pieces, then arrange four oysters (fried) on each crouton, cover all with grated cheese and bake in a quick oven. 96—DAEIOLES OF OYSTEES. 2 or 3 doz. oysters 3 eggs Breadcrumbs Pepper and salt Parsley Butter and milk. Mode.—Put the breadcrumbs in a basin, beat up the eggs and mix with the oysters, breadcrumbs, a cupful ofOysters. milk, parsley, pepper and salt. Eill tlie dariole tins, which, should have been buttered; put in the oven and bake for about ten minutes; turn out when wanted and serve very hot. 97— OYSTERS AND POTATOES. 4 cold boiled potatoes 2 ozs flour 1 egg Pepper and salt 1 bottle oysters A little butter. Mode—Mash the potatoes, to them add the flour, pepper and salt, and about a tablespoonful of butter, also the egg well beaten and make into a paste. Roll out and cut into pieces about three inches square ; into each square put about six or eight oysters, a small piece of butter, pepper and salt, fold them over, squeeze the edges tightly and bake in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. 98— OYSTEES AND MAOAEONI. I lb. macaroni 1 bottle oysters 1 tomato Ca^^enne Butter Juice of a lemon Breadcrumbs. Mode.—Put the macaroni on to boil in a pint of water and the liquor from the oysters, put in about half a teaspoonful of salt, allow it to boil until tender, cut it up into small pieces, put it into a pie dish with the oysters, season well with cayenne and lemon juice, and put a piece of butter about half the size of a walnut in, slice the tomato and lay over the top, then cover with the bread- crumbs, put pieces of butter over it and bake in a fast oven until the crumbs are browned. Serve very hot. 99—SAVOUEY OYSTEES WITH MUSHEOOMS. 1 tablespoonful cream or A little caj^enne milk 12 oysters 1 tomato 1 oz. butter 1 oz. flour .1 gill of stockOysters. 1 teaspoonful chopped par- sley 3 mushrooms 3 eschalots Pepper and salt Juice of 4 a lemon. Mode.—Strain the liquor from the oysters, put the butter and flour into a saucepan, chop the eschalots and mushrooms, add these with the liquor to the butter and flour, and when these are cooked stir in the tomato previously rubbed through a sieve ; allow these to boil for about five minutes, then add the stock, cream, juice of the lemon, parsley and cayenne, allow to boil again for about five minutes. Put in the oysters, but do not allow them to boil. Put a little of this on rounds of bread (fried). A fillet of anchovy laid on each piece is a great addition to this savoury. Mode.—Drain the oysters and dry them in a towel, sprinkle them with a little flour, pepper and salt. Put a little butter into a small pan; when it is bubbling put in the oysters ; when they are brown turn them and brown on the other side. Sprinkle the chopped parsley over them and serve on hot buttered toast. Mode.—Select very big oysters put in a small stew- pan, pour over them a small quantit}^ of the oyster liquor, but not a drop of water, add a lump of butter, pepper and salt, place the cover on and heat thoroughly, then stir in the white sauce, which must be hot and very thick. A 12 large oysters Pepper and salt 100—OYSTEE SAUTE. Butter Buttered toast Chopped parsley. 101—PANNED OYSTEES. 1 doz. oysters Butter Parsley Pepper and salt 2 tablespoon fuls thick white sauce Croutons of bread.Oy.Uers. Oysters. spoonful of rich cream is a great improvement. Have ready fried and hot some round croutons of bread, place a spoonful of the mixture on each, garnish with chopped parsley and serve very hot. 102—OYSTER COCKTAIL (Another Way). ^ a pt. tomato sauce (Mac- ^ a pt. anchovy sauce 1 teaspoonful cayenne pep- 2 tablespoonfuls of Wor- MoDE.—Put all the ingredients into a basin and mix thoroughly, then bottle off and you have it ready for use ; this will keep for months. Put about six oysters into a small plate or glass and cover with this mixture. Juice of 6 lemons per cestershire sauceCRABS. 103—CEABS. Crabs should always be bought alive, because if a crab dies before it is cooked it is not safe to eat. More- over, you must kill a crab before you put it into the boiling water; if you put it in alive, it will cast all its legs and claws, and the water gets into the body and spoils the flesh. To kill it you run a skewer down between the eyes. 104_TO BOIL CEABS. Mode.—Kill them and put them into boiling water with a handful of salt; allow to boil twenty minutes or until quite red, 105—HOT DEESSED CEAB. 1 crab Butter Vinegar Mustard Pepper and salt. Mode.—Pick all the flesh out and mix it in a basin with about a tablespoonful of butter, a saltspoonful of mustard, a little cayenne and salt, put into scalloped shells, then moisten it all with vinegar. Cover with breadcrumbs and bake. 106—SCALLOPED CEAB. The flesh of 1 crab J pt. white sauce Cayenne and salt Breadcrumbs Butter Juice of J a lemon Mode.—Pick the flesh from the crab, mix with a cupful of white sauce, cayenne and salt to taste, and a • little lemon; put into the scalloped shells or patty pans, cover with breadcrumbs and a little butter, and bake until brown, or brown with salamander.Crabs, I07~CEAB MAYONNAISE. 1 crab 1 lettuce A cupful mayonnaise And garnishing 2 hard-boiled eggs Eew capers. Mode.—Pick the crab, put into the centre of a salad bowl, then fill around with broken lettuce, not too small. Pour over the mayonnaise (recipe found among the salad dressings), chop up a couple of hard-boiled eggs and a few capers, and sprinkle over the top. 108_CEAB QUENELLES. Flesh of 1 crab 2 ozs. butter 2 ozs. breadcrumbs 1 tablespoonful of anchovy 4 eggs sauce A little cayenne Juice of J a lemon Salt and pepper. Mode.—Take the meat of a good-sized crab, break it very small and mix with two ounces of butter and as many of breadcrumbs (which have been soaked in water and wrung in a cloth), season with cayenne, lemon, nutmeg, and a tablespoonful of anchovy sauce, add two eggs and yolk of one, and mix thoroughly over the fire. Let the mixture become cold, then shape into neat balls, dip into well beaten egg and breadcrumbs and fry in boiling fat. Serve with fresh parsley. 109—CEAB ENTEEE. Flesh of 1 female crab 1 cupful breadcrumbs Lemon peel 1 teaspoonf ul of mixed 1 egg herbs Butter. Mode.— Get a good female crab, take out all the meat, put the coral on one side, pound the meat in a mortar, add one cupful of fine breadcrumbs and grated peel of a small lemon, a little nutmeg, a teaspoonful of mixed herbs, salt and pepper to taste. Bind the mixtureCrabs, with a well-beaten egg, moisten with cream, butter some dariole moulds and fill. Bake for fifteen minutes and turn out, garnish with coral rubbed through a sieve. Rot or may be cold for supper. llO—CEAB A LA FEANCAISE. 1 crab 2 or 3 ozs. butler Saltspoonf ul cayenne Tablespoonful tomato sauce J cupful of white sauce Juice of a lemon Mode.—Pick the flesh from the crab, over it squeeze the lemon, sprinkle the cayenne and put it into a saucepan with the butter, white sauce and tomato sauce; allow all to boil. Serve on toast either as an entree or savoury. 111— DEVILLED CEAB, 1 crab 1 oz. butter Cayenne and salt Tablespoonful curry powder Tablespoonful Worcester- ^ a cupful of white sauce shire sauce Mode.—Pick the flesh from the crab, put the butter into a saucepan with a little cayenne and salt, add the curry powder and sauce ; add the white sauce, and, when boiling, add the crab. Serve with rice. 112— CEAB CEOQUETS. 1 crab 2 boiled potatoes 1 cupful breadcrumbs 2 eggs Cayenne and salt Boiling fat Butter. Mode.—^Pick the flesh from the crab, mash up the potatoes with a teaspoonful of butter, salt and a little cayenne, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and half the breadcrumbs previously soaked in milk; beat up one of the eggs and mix all well together; form in nice balls, dip in egg and breadcrumbs, and fry a nice golden brown.Crabs, 113— CHAB PATTIES. Some puff paste 1 oz. butter 1 female crab 1 tablespoonful of gravy 1 teaspoonful of anchovy A little cayenne and salt sauce 1 teaspoonful lemon juice Mode.—Prepare the puff paste the same as you do for oyster patties ; take the crab (already boiled), pick all the meat from it and chop it ver}^ fine, put it into a stew- jDan with the spawn or coral (which has previously been pounded in a mortar until quite smooth), butter, anchovy sauce, gravy, lemon juice, cayenne and salt, and a table- spoonful of water. Let it stew for five minutes, then fill the patties with it. 114— POTTED CEAB. 1 female crab 2 ozs. of butter Saltspoonful cayenne Juice of 1 lemon Mace Clarified butter Mode.—Take from a female crab the spawn, coral, flesh and pickings from the legs and claws, pound well in a mortar, season with cayenne, lemon juice and mace to taste. Mix it to a firm paste with good melted butter; fill small pots with this ; cover the top of each pot with clarified butter and keep in a cool place.PRAWNS. 115—PEAWNS. Prawns are always better if you boil them yourself as then you are quite sure if they are fresh or not, if you buy them cooked there is always a doubt. Mode —Allow the water to boil, then add the salt and prawns; when they are a nice bright color they are cooked ; they take about twenty minutes. Mode.—Soak the prawns in boiling water until you can bear your hands in it, then they will shell quite easily. Pick off the heads and the tails, then the shell of the body is easily removed. Always keep the pickings, as in making curry or other dishes these boiled down make the liquor for them. I pt. prawns 116—TO BOIL PEAWNS. 1 qt. water Small handful of salt. 117—TO PICK PEAWNS. 118_CUEEIED PEAWNS. 1 pt. prawns (picked) 6 cloves 2 tablespoonfuls curry 1 apple Tablespoonful chutney Tablespoonful butter 1 small bulb of garlic 2 onions 1 pt. of liquor from the heads and pickings Tablespoonful cocoanut. j»owderPrawns. Mode.—Slice the onions very fine and put them in a saucepan with the butter, and when well cooked add the apple very finely chopped with the cloves, chutney, curry powder and garlic (this must be minced finely). Boil the heads and pickings of prawns with the cocoanut for an hour (this you can put on and can be boiling while you are making your curry); strain this into the curry and allow to simmer for half an hour, then add the prawns a quarter of an hour before serving and allow to simmer. Dish with rice and Bombay duck. 119_T0 SEEVE PEAWNS. A very pretty way is to stick them into an orange or an apple cut in half ; stick them in until the fruit is well covered, or put them in a wineglass head out. 120—DEVILLED PEAWNS. 1 pt. of prawns 4 tablespoonfuls curry powder 1 lb. butter 2 tablespoonfuls anchovy sauce 2 eggs J pt. milk. 2 tablespoonfuls Worcester sauce Nutmeg Saltspoonful cayenne. Mode.—Mix the butter, eggs, sauces, cayenne, curry, &c,, in a sancepan and allow to boil, stirring all the time, then add the milk, and when all is boiling, thicken with a little cornflour, then add the prawns. These also can be served with rice or toast. 121—PEAWNS A LA FEANOAISE. J lb butter Juice 2 lemons 1 pt. prawns Cayenne Anchovy sauce White sauce.Praivns. Mode.—Melt the butter with the juice of the lemon - and then add the prawns and anchovy sauce; allow them to stand on the fire for about half an hour until they are a nice pink color (the lemon draws the color from the prawns), then add the white sauce and cayenne ; allow all to boil, and serve very hot on toast with a slice of lemon. 122—PEAWNS MANTALINI. J pt. prawns ^ tin mushrooms 2 tomatoes 2 ozs. butter Little white sauce Cayenne, salt and mustard. Mode.—Put the prawns, mushrooms and tomatoes through a mincing machine, place them in a saucepan with the butter, white sauce and other ingredients, allow to come to a boil, serve on toast with slices of lemon. This is very nice for sandwiches. 123—PEAWN SOUFFLE. 1 pt. prawns 3 eggs Breadcrumbs Milk A little cornflour Salt and pepper. Mode.—Mince the prawns, and pound with the bread crumbs, (which have been previously soaked in milk), and the j^olks of eggs in a mortar until perfectly smooth, then add the whites beaten to a froth, the pepper and salt and a teaspoonf ul of cornflour mixed in milk, put into a pie-dish, cover with crumbs and a little butter, and bake. 124—SCALLOPED PEAWNS. 1 pt. white sauce I pt. prawns 2 hard boiled eggs Butter Pepper and salt Breadcrumbs. Mode.—Six scalloped shells, divide the prawns equally, then chop the eggs and also divide into the six shells, cover all with the white sauce into which pepperPratons, and salt has been added, cover with the breadcrumbs and a piece of butter in the centre of each^ then bake until a nice brown. 125—PEAWN PATTIES. Puff paste Prawns White sauce Pepper and salt. Mode.—Make a very light puff paste, cut into squares of three inches, mix the prawns (chopped into four) in the white sauce with the pepper and salt, put a tablespoonf u] of the mixture in the centre of each piece of paste, then turn over corner ways, nip the paste around the edges, have a panful of boiling fat and fry. Serve straight out of the pan with fried parsley. 126—PEAWNS IN ASPIC. 1 pt. picked prawns 1 qt. aspic jelly 2 hard boiled eggs A little beetroot A little cucumber. Mode.—Arrange the prawns around the top of your mould and put in a little aspic jelly (recipe found amongst jellies), allow partially to set, then add a layer of the white of the eggs, a little more jelly, and then set a layer of beetroot and more jelly, repeat until your mould is filled, keep on ice until required. 127—POTTED PEAWNS No, 1. Prawns Salt and cayenne Cloves Clarified butter Mode.—Shell the prawns, season well with the cayenne and salt and just a taste of pounded cloves, put them down tight in pots, the closer the better, as it is not well for the butter to run in between them too much ; put a little butter over them, set them in a moderate oven for a few minutes, and when cold ju«t cover with clarified • butter. Keep in a cool place.Prawns. 128--POTTED PRAWNS No. 2. 1 lb. shelled prawns Cayenne Salt 2 tablespoonfuls butter. Mode.—Boil and shell the prawns, put them through a mincing machine and pound them in a mortar with the butter, ca3^enne and salt to taste ; pack tightly into small jars; melt some butter and pour over and cover closely with oiled paper.MUTTON ENTREES. 129— MUTTON OUTLETS. 1 lb. iieck chops Pepper and salt 1 egg Flour Breadcrumbs Clarified dripping Mode.—Chop the mutton into nice thin chops, then shape them into cutlets, beat them flat with a chopper, pepper and salt them, shake a little flour over them, dip them into egg and then the breadcrumbs. Have ready your panful of dripping, put the cutlets in and allow them to cook for about a quarter of an hour. 130— FEENCH OUTLETS. 1 lb. neck chops Chopped parsley Pepper and salt Butter. Mode.—Prepare your chops as in the previous recipe, brush over with a little butter, pepper and salt, grill over a nice clear fire, sprinkle with the parsley, serve straight from the grill. 131—STEWED CUTLETS AND GEEEN PEAS. Some cold cutlets ^ peck peas Pepper and salt 1 onion A little stock. Mode.—If you have cold cutlets this is a good way o^ using them up. Boil the onion with the pepper and salt in about a half pint of water ; when the onion is cooked add the peas and allows them to boil ten minutes, then put in the cold cutlets and boil until the peas are cooked. If your cutlets are fresh, put them in with the onion, and add the peas last; thicken with a little flour.Mutton £71 trees. 132—CUTLETS A LA JULIENNE. 1 lb. cutlets 1 small onion 2 carrots Pepper and salt 1 turnip 1 small potato Mode.—Prepare the cutlets as in m^utton cutlet recipe, cut the carrots and turnip in very thin strips of about two inches long, also the onion. Put these on to boil in about half a pint of water, a tablespoonful of AVorcestershire sauce, pepper and salt, and allow them to boil until cooked; then add the cutlets, and just cover with stock, if any; if not, water will do, and allow them to simmer gently for one hour ; do not let them boil, or the bread- crumbs and egg will come away from the meat, and does not look so nice. If a small potato is put in with the vegetables, cut very small; it is an improvement to the gravy. 133_CUTLETS A LA EEFOEM. . Cutlets Pepper and salt Stock Port wine Butter Mushrooms Mode.—Prepare and cook your cutlets as in recipe No. 129 ; make a rich sauce as follows :— Have some good stock or make some with gravy beef, boil some herbs with the beef, fry some flour in the butter (according to the quantity required), for one pound of cutlets, say, to a tablespoonful of butter put in sufficient flour to make a thick paste^ fry a nice brown, then add the stock (about half a pint), one glass of port wine, pepper and salt, chop up the mushrooms and add to the sauce. This sauce needs to be fairly thick ; pour it over the cutlets and serve with mashed potatoes. 134_CUTLETS AND PIQUANTE SAUCE. 1 lb. cutlets A little gravy i cupful mixed pickles A teaspoonful brown sugar Flour.Mutton Entrees, Mode.—Prepare your cutlets and serve with, the fol- lowing sauce :—If cold cutlets, you can stew them in the sauce, which I think improves them. Have about half a pint of stock or gravy, chop up your pickles small and allow ihem to stew for about an hour, make a little thickening of flour and add, with a teaspoonful of brown sugar, pepper and salt. The mustard pickles are the best, as they make the sauce a nice color. 135—CUTLETS AND FEENCH BEANS. 1 lb. cutlets Wineglass vinegar J lb beans 4 cloves 1 piece ginger 1 onion Pepper and salt. Mode.—Prepare your cutlets and put them on to stew in enough water to well cover them, and the onion (sliced), cloves, ginger, pepper and salt; allow them to stew until the onion is well cooked, then add the beans (which have been previously cut, not too small); when they are cooked add the vinegar, thicken with a little flour and allow to simmer until required. 136-BEAIN CUTLETS. 2 sheep's brains Chopped parsley 1 egg A little flour Breadcrumbs Clarified dripping Mode.—Wash the brains and remove the fibres, soak them in warm salt and water for half an hour, dry them in a clean towel, shake over them a little flour, pepper and salt, beat up the egg and add the chopped parsley, ; in this dip the brains, cut in pieces of about two inches long by one and a-half wide, then into the breadcrumbs. Have ready a panful of boiling dripping, put the brains in and cook for about five minutes a nice golden brown.Mutton Entrees. ^37_SWEETBEEAD CUTLETS. 2 sweetbreads Breadcrumbs 1 egg Pepper and salt. Mode.—Wash tbe sweetbreads well, cut away all the fat and gristle, put them to soak for one hour in hot salt water, changing the water every quarter of an hour, until they are nearly as white as brains, cut them into eight pieces, dredge a little flour on them, dip in the egg (well beaten), then in breadcrumbs, fry a nice golden colour in clarified dripping. 138_PEIOASSEED BEAINS. Brains Pepper and salt J pt. milk 1 egg 1 onion Parsley Butter and flour. Mode.—Boil the brains in milk with the onion ; when cooked take them out, cut up the brains each into flour, put them back into the milk with a little water (not the onion), beat up the egg, add to the brains with a little flour, pepper, salt and chopped parsley, and stir until it thickens, then serve. 139-BEAINS IN TOETUEE. Brains 2 eggs 2 lemons (juice) Pepper and salt. Mode.—Boil the brains in half a pint of water with a little salt, strain and cut up the brains (not too small), beat up the eggs, mix in with lemon juice and a little of the water in which the brains has been boiled. Be sure you put the eggs in the lemon and stir the one way or it will curdle ; then put it on with the brains to boil, stirring all the time ; when it boils it is ready for use.Mutton Entries. 140—BEAIN OMELETTE, Brains Pepper and salt 6 eggs Chopped up parsley 1 oz. butter. Mode.—Beat up the eggs lightly, omitting the whites of three, add pepper and salt, and half of the butter in small pieces, cut up the brains (which have been previously boiled) in small pieces; mix the whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth with the other ingredients,, which you have kept well beaten, stir in the brains ; put the rest of the butter into the pan, and when it bubbles pour in the omelet; keep the whole stirred one way until it begins to thicken, loosen the edges round the pan, turn it half over. When nice and brown it is ready for use. Omelettes must be served straight from the pan and on a very hot dish; they should not be made until quite ready for them. 141—STEWED SHEEP'S HEAD AND BRAIN SAUCE. 1 sheep's head A little parsley 1 onion Pepper and salt. Mode.—Wash the head well and put it on to boil in sufficient water to cover, with salt and pepper to taste; allow it to boil for one and a-half hours, or until the meat leaves the bones easily; cut up the onion in slices and stew in a little milk ; when the onions are cooked, cut the brains into small pieces and put in the milk and thicken; pour this over the sheep's head and serve. The liquor that the head has been boiled in will do for soup the next day, if not wanted at once. 142—FRICASSEED SHEEP'S HEAD. 1 sheep's head Milk 2 onions Butter Parsley 1 egg.Mutton Entrees. Mode.—Boil the head as in the previous recipe, onlj boil the onion with it ; when cooked sufficiently to take the meat off the bones, cut in pieces about two inches long* and half an inch thick, also the brains and the tongue ; put all on again in sufficient milk to cover it, pepper and salt to taste; beat up the egg well, and when the milk is boiling add the eggs and parsley and a little flour to thicken. Do not allow this to boil long, only sufficient time to boil the milk. 143—BEAIZED SHEEP'S HEAD. 1 head Breadcrumbs 1 onion Butter Pepper and salt. Mode.—Boil the head as in the previous recipe ; cut it in slices, dip each piece in breadcrumbs, lay in a buttered pie-dish a layer of meat, then one of onion, sliced very thinly, and butter, and so on until the dish is full, and bake for an hour or until the onion is cooked. 144-SHEEP'S HEAD SAUTE. 1 head Butter Little parsley -J- wineglass sherry Pepper and salt. Mode.—Boil the head, cut the meat into very small dice-shaped pieces, a little flour, pepper, salt, and the parsley chopped very fine ; put some butter in a pan, toss in the meat and allow to brown; keep shaking the pan so that it does not burn ; pour over the sherry and allow to cook for five minutes. Serve very hot with mashed potatoes. 145_PEESSED SHEEFS HEAD. 3 sheep's heads Allspice Cloves Ginger Salt and pepper. jMutton Entrees. Mode.—Boil the heads for three hours with the following ingredients :—Eight cloves, a teaspoonful of allspice, salt, pepper, and a piece of ginger, a wineglassful of vinegar ; take the meat and tongue from the bones without breaking, if possible (not the brains); be careful that none of the cloves or ginger are in the meat; put in a presser (which can be got any size and are very useful), screw the meat down as tight as possible, more or less "can be used ; keep in a cool place until required, turn out, then cut with a very sharp knife. The liquor of this is also good for soup. 146-SHEEP'S TONGUES A LA JULIENNE. 6 tongues 3 cloves 2 carrots 1 onion 1 turnip Pepper and salt. Mode.—Boil the tongues, take them out, skin and cut them in half, put back in the saucepan with the liquor they have been boiled in, pepper, salt a«id cloves, slice the onion, carrots and turnip in very thin slices about two inches long, allow^ to boil until the vegetables are well cooked, put in a little sauce and thicken slightly. 147—FEICASSEED SHEEP'S TONGUES. 6 sheep's tongues h pt. milk Butter Little chopped parsley Pepper and salt 1 onion Mode.—Boil the tongues, skin and cut in two. length- ways, put in a saucepan with the milk, pepper, salt and onion thinly sliced, boil until the onion is cooked, thicken with a little flour, add the chopped parsley, and serve very hot. 148_SHEEP'S TONGUES CUTLETS. 6 tongues Breadcrumbs 2 eggs Pepper and salt.Mutton Entrees. Mode— Boil tlie tongues, slice tliem. dredge a little flour over tlieni, pepper and salt, dip each piece in egg^ then in the breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling fat. 149_SHEEP'S TONGUE IN ASPIC. 6 tongues 1 hard-boiled egg 1 pt. aspic Sliced beetroot. Mode.—Boil the tongues, skin, cut into thin slices, allow them to get cold, place them in a basin. Around the edge of the basin place pieces of beetroot, then pieces of the white of the egg, a slice of the tongue, and so on till you are around the basin, put in the rest of the tongue, beetroot, egg, etc., then fill up the basin with aspic jelly (find in jelly recipes), put on ice and serve from the ice; do not take out before required, as in this climate the aspic soon melts. 150_SWEETBEEAD SAUTE. 2 sweetbreads Chopped parsley Butter Wineglassful of sherry A little flour Cayenne and salt. Mode.—Soak the sweetbreads in warm water and a little salt for one hour, changing the water every quarter of an hour. Cut them into small dice-like pieces, dredge a little flour over them ; when the butter is melted put them in the pan with a little salt and cayenne ; keep shaking the pan to prevent them burning ; when nicely brown put in the sherry and parsley, allow to remain over the fire for ten minutes; serve with a slice of lemon. 151-STEWED SWEETBEEADS. 2 sweetbreads Sauce 1 onion Flour Buttei Pepper and salt Juice of 1 lemon 1 slice lean bacon.Mtitton Entreet, Mode.—Soak tlie sweetbreads for one hour in warm water witb a little salt, slice the sweetbread, not too small, slice the onion very thin and put in a saucepan with a tablespoonful of butter, dredge the sweetbread with flour, and when the onion is cooked put them into the saucepan with the bacon, cut in very small pieces, allow to brown a little, then add a tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, juico of the lemon, pepper and salt, and sufllcient stock to cover ; if no stock add water and allow.to boil slowly for one hour ; serve with small pieces of toast. 152—LARDED SWEETBREADS. 2 sweetbreads 1 lemon 1 carrot Bunch of herbs 1 piece of celery 1 egg Thin slice of fat bacon. Mode.—Slice the vegetables very thin, cut your sweetbreads each into four, lard them well with the bacon fa"-, cut into very narrow strips, then put them into a saucepan with the vegetables, pepper and salt, and juice of the lemon, cover with milk, put a piece of the buttered paper over them, allow them to come to a boil, let them simmer for about an hour. Take out the sweetbread and bake in a moderate oven, beat up an egg and add with a little cream to the sauce ; when the sweetbread is nicely browned strain the sauce over it, and serve very hot with slices of lemon. 153—FRIED SWEETBREAD AND BACON. 2 sweetbreads Pepper and salt Juice of a lemon A little flour. Mode.—Soak the sweetbread in warm water and a little salt for an hour, cut in thin slices, dredge a little flour over them, squeeze the lemon a little on each, pepper and salt, put in a pan with a little butter and fry a nice brown. Grill the bacon or bake in the oven. Dish iip the sweetbread in the centre of an entree dish, put the bacon round and serve with fried bread.Mutton Entrees. 154--BAKED SWEETBEEAD. 2 sweetbreads Tomato sauce Breadcrumbs Pepper and salt Butter. Mode.—Soak and trim the sweetbreads, do not cut them unless necessary ; put a little tomato sauce and a little butter over them, place in a small pie-dish, cover with breadcrumbs and pieces of butter, pepper and salt; bake for one hour. 155—STEWED MUTTON. 3 lbs. neck mutton Pepper and salt 2 onions 1 tablespoonfnl of Paw Bunch herbs Paw sauce A little flour. Mode.—Cut up the neck or breast of mutton into small pieces, trim away most of the fat, put into a sauce- pan with as much water as to well cover the meat, slice the onion into rather thick slices, put in with the bunch of herbs (tied), pepper and salt into the saucepan and allow to stew for one and a-half hours. Skim away all the fat, and take out the herbs, thicken with a little flour and add the sauce. 156—HASHED MUTTON. Eemains cold leg or shoulder Worcestershire sauce mutton Pepper and salt 2 onions A little herb if liked Cloves. Mode.—Cut all the meat from the bones into small dice-shaped pieces, chop the bones and put them on to stew for one hour in a pint of water with the cloves, pepper, salt and herbs (chopped fine), and sauce ; slice the onions, fry a nice brown, thicken with flour, strain the liquor from the bones, skim all the fat off, add the onionsMutton Entrees. to it, put it on again to boil, add the mutton and allow to simmer for half an hour ; a little more flour may be added if not thick enough ; serve with little squares of toast. 157—HAEICOT MUTTON. 3 lbs. necl?: chops Cloves 3 onions Sauce 2 carrots Pepper and salt 2 turnips Bunch sweet herbs. Mode.—Out the mutton into small thin chops, trim off all the fat, slice the onions and fry in a little butter, dredge a little flour over the chops and fry a nice brown, put the chops, onions, cloves, pepper and salt into suflicient water to cover and allow to boil for half an hour, cut the carrots and turnips into thin slices, add to the mutton with the herbs, and stew until the vegetables are well cooked ; take out the herbs, thicken a little more if required, and add a tablespoonful of sauce, 158--HAEICOT MUTTON (Another Way), Eemains cold leg, loin or 2 carrots shoulder mutton 1 turnip 2 onions Cloves Pepper and salt Sauce. Mode.—Cut the mutton into small slices, dredge with a little flour, pepper and salt, slice the onions and fry, then fry the mutton, put into a saucepan with some gravy or stock (made from the bones), allow it to simmer for one hour, slice the carrots and turnip, add them together with the cloves and sauce, a few drops caramel, and allow to stew for another hour, thicken with a little flour. 159—lEISH STEW. 3 lbs. neck mutton 2 lbs. potatoes 3 onions Pepper and salt.Mutton Entrees. Mode.—Cut up the mutton into small thin chops, peel and cut the potatoes, each in two, slice the onion, not too thin ; put a layer of potatoes into a saucepan, then onions, then meat, and pepper and salt, and so on until all the ingredients are in; put a good thick layer of j^tatoes on top, put on about one and a-half pints of water. Close your saucepan tight and allow it to boil slowly for two or two and a-half hours ; shake the sauce- pan occasionally so as not to allow it to burn. In a large family where two dishes are required, from four pounds neck mutton you can make a dish of cutlets, and with the bones chopped off and trimmings, you can make a nice little dish of Irish stew. 160—CUEEIED MUTTON. Fresh or cold leg mutton Tablespoonful cocoanut 2 onions 2 tablespoonfuls curry Tablespoonful chutney powder 6 cloves Lemon I apple Butter. Mode.—Slice the onions very thin, put into a sauce- pan with butter, and cook until browD ; add the cloves and apple, cut very small, the cocoanut, juice of half a lemon and a little of the rind, and the chutney; allow all these to simmer until the apple is soft; keep stiring all the time ; cut up the mutton into small pieces and add ; close your saucepan tight and allow to simmer for ten minutes, then add a cupful of stock or water and allow all to boil until required; if it is cold mutton, about twenty minutes is sufficient; if fresh, about one hour. Served with boiled 161—TUENIP STEW (Jewish Eecipe). 4 lbs. neck mutton Pepper and salt 3 onions 2 pieces ginger Bunch of English turnips.Mutton Entrees. Mode.—Out up the mutton into small chops, slice the onions, peel and cut the turnips into four, put all into a saucepan with a pint of water, chop the ginger up and add with the pepper and salt; allow to stew for two and a-half hours to three hours; shake occasionally to prevent burning. This can also be made from remains of cold mutton. 162—STEWED BEEAST OF MUTTON AND PEAS. 3 lbs. breast mutton 2 or 3 leaves of mint 2 onions Pepper and salt 3 cupfuls peas A little flour. Mode.—Ohop up the breast of the mutton into pieces about two inches long, trim away as much of the fat as you can, put into a saucepan with the onions sliced, pepper and salt, and allow to boil for an hour: about half an hour before serving add the peas and the mint; when the peas are cooked take out the mint, add a little sauce and thicken slightly with a little flour. 163—SAVOURY MUTTON. Remains cold leg mutton Butter 1 onion Pepper and salt 6 tomatoes Breadcrumbs Mode.—Cut away all the meat from the bone and put through the mincing machine, put the onion through also, butter a pie-dish and put in half the mince ; then slice three of the tomatoes, put on a layer with two teaspoon- fuls of butter, pepper and salt, then put in the remains of the mince, then the other tomatoes sliced ; cover with breadcrumbs ; put on two more teaspoonfuls of butter scattered all over in small pieces (this is improved with a little lemon juice), and on no account put any liquor, as the tomatoes are sufficient. Bake for an hour in a quick oven.Mutton Entrees, 164—SHEEP'S TROTTEES. Mode.—-The trotters as a rule come from the butchers already cleaned, if they are not it is very easy to scald and clean them; in fact, it is always advisable to scald and clean them again and get away any sand or hair that may be about them; put them on to boil with a teaspoonful of salt to every three trotters, and half a pint of water, allow them to boil for four hours. They may be eaten cold or made into many dishes for luncheon and supper. 165—FRICASSEED SHEEP'S TROTTERS. 6 trotters 1 teaspoonful butter i pt. milk A little flour 1 onion PejDper and salt 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. Mode.—Prepare the oysters as in the previous recipe, cut the onion into about eight pieces, put on to boil with the milk, pepper and salt; when the onion is cooked cut the trotters into four and put in with the milk and onion ; thicken with a little flour, add a teaspoonful of butter, and the chopped parsley. Keep very hot until required, but do not let it burn. 166—SHEEP'S TROTTERS (Au gratin). 6 trotters Breadcrumbs 2 eschalots Butter 1 tablespoonful chopped par- Pepper and salt sley Tablespoonful grated cheese Mode.—Boil the trotters as in the previous recipe, cut them in two and take out the leg bone, lay them in a pie- .dish, put a piece of butter on each, chop up the eschalot and parsley, pepper and salt, and sprinkle them over the trotters, then mix the breadcrumbs (about half a cupful) with the cheese, cover the trotters with this, put some pieces of butter, and bake until a nice brown.Mutton Entrees. 1G7—PEESSED TEOTTEES. 12 trotters 4 knuckle bones (mutton) 6 cloves 1 bunch sweet lierbs 1 teaspoonful mixed spice 8 whole peppers Mode.—Boil the trotters and the knuckle bones for five hours with the cloves, herbs, spice and pepper, season rather strongly ; when well boiled take out th^ trotters and knuckles; take every piece of meat off the bones and put in a presser; be sure there are not any of the cloves or herbs among it; place the presser on the ice; when cold turn out and cut with a very sharp knife. 168—TEOTTEES A LA JULIENNE. 6 trotters 1 onion 2 carrots 6 cloves 1 turnip Pepper and salt. Mode.—Cut up the carrots and turnip in very thin strips, also the onion; put them on to boil with some of the liquor that the trotters have been boiled in, add the cloves, pepper and salt; when the vegetables are cooked cut the trotters (which have been previously boiled) in two, and boil with vegetables for half an hour. 169—SHEEP'S KIDNEY (SAUTE). 6 sheep's kidneys 1 glass sherry Chopped parsley Pepper and salt Juice of a lemon. Mode.—Split the kidneys and take off the skin, cut each into small dice, dredge with a little flour, pepper and salt, put in a small frying pan with a little butter, fry until the kidneys are nearly cooked, then put in the sherry and juice of the lemon; when nicely c coked shake the parsley into it ; serve on hot toast.MiHton Entrees. 170^STEWED SHEEP'S KIDNEYS. 6 kidneys A little flour 1 onion Butter Pepper and salt. Mode.—Out the kidneys in half and take the skin off, then cut again in quarters, shake a little flour over them, slice the onion and put in the saucepan with the l)utter, when brawned add the kidneys ; allow it to cook for about a quarter of an hour, put in sufhcient water to coTor, with a tablespoonful of sax\ce; allow it to simmer for one hour; serve with a casing of mashed potatoes. 171-^DEYILLED KIDNEY. 6 kidneys Cayenne Butter Salt Mustard Juice of a lemon. Mode.—-Cut the kidneys lengthways, as nearly in half as possible, skin them, then scare \ make a paste of the butter, mustard, pepper and salt, spread this on the kidneys; squeeze the lemon over them, piit them on a grill flat side down ; when cooked that side tutn ; have ready very hot plates; serve on fried bread, and shake a little parslay over them. Kidneys must be served str^aight from th6 grill and not too much cooked to be palatable. 172—GEILLED KIDNEY. 6 kidneys Pepper and salt Butter. Mode.—Out the kidneys lengthways as far as you can without going right through the gland, skin, lay on a grill over a very clear fire, flat side down ; sprinkle a little salt and cayenne; when cooked turn ; serve on a very hot dish on fried cro-utons.Mutton Entrees. 173—MINCED KIDNEYS (on Toast). 6 kidneys Chopped parsley Cayenne and salt 1 egg Butter. Mode.—Skin the kidneys, put through the mincing machine, put into a saucepan with the butter, a little cayenne and a saltspoonful of salt; cook for fifteen minutes, then beat up the egg and add ; do not allow it to boil; serve up on toast, then shake the chopped parsley over it 174 -BEAIZED KIDNEY. 12 sheep's kidneys Parsley Butter " 1 onion Breadcrumbs. Mode.—^Cut the kidneys in half and skin ; butter a pie-dish, sprinkle some breadcrumbs and chopped parsley, and some onion cut up very finely ; then put in six of the kidneys, cover about a quarter of an inch thick^ with breadcrumbs, some chopped onion and parsley, pepper and salt; put on some butter, put in the rest of the kidneys and some more breadcrumbs, pepper and salt, onion and parsley, only a little more butter ; bake for one hour, 175—KIDNEY SAVOUEY. 6 sheep's kidneys ^ lemon (juice) 12 white mushrooms Cayenne and salt 2 tomatoes Butter 3 eggs. Mode.—Cut the kidneys and skin, put them through the mincing machine with the mushrooms, tomatoes, season well with cayenne ; put a tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan ; when it bubbles add the mince and juice of the lemon, cook for half an hour, keep stiring all the time to prevent it burning ; serve on hot buttered toast, and garnish with a slice of lemon and hard-boiled egg.Mutton Entrees. 176—FRIED laDNEY. 6 kidneys Pepper and salt Butter. Mode.—Cut the kidneys lengthways and skin, put the butter in the pan (about a tablespoonful) ; when hot put in the kidneys flat side down, pepper and salt, and fry for ten minutes ; serve on fried bread. 177—MUTTON PIE. 3 lbs. breast mutton Pepper and salt 2 onions Pufi' paste. Mode.—Chop up the mutton in small pieces, trim away as much of the fat as you can ; put a layer of mutton in a pie-dish, a layer of onions thinly sliced, pepper and salt; repeat until the pie-dish is full, about half-fill with water, cover and put in a quick oven, let it remain there for an hour, by that time the meat will be nearly cooked ; take out, put on a nice thick puff paste, put back in the oven; when the paste is cooked it is ready for use. This can be made with cold mutton ; it answers nearly as well. 178—SQUAB PIE (Devonshire recipe). 3 lbs. mutton chops Pepper and salt 3 onions 6 cloves 5 apples Short paste. Mode.—Chop up the mutton rather small, slice the onions very thin, peel and slice the apples, put a layer of mutton, pepper and salt, cloves, a layer of onions, k layer of apples, and so on until the pie-dish is quite full; fill the pie-dish about half-full of water, allow to cook in a quick oven for about an hour, cover with a nice butter or lard paste ; when the paste is cooked it is ready for use. This also can be made with cold meat.Mutton Entrees. 179—PEAS AND KLEIZ (Jewish recipe). 4 lbs. mutton chops 1 piece of ginger 1 qt. peas 3 eggs 2 onions 2 tablespoonfuls of flour Pepper and salt 1 cupful of breadcrumbs 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Mode.—Cut the chops up into small pieces, put into a saucepan with the onions sliced, and ginger, pepper and salt to taste, put on sufficient water to well cover it, allow to boil for four hours ; have a quart of fresh peas, add these with two or three leaves of mint about half an hour before it is required. Beat up the eggs well, and add gradually the flour, breadcrumbs and parsley, pepper and salt, until it is a nice smooth batter. About a quarter of an hour before dishing pour the batter into the saucepan and put on the lid tightly and allow it to simmer ; this is called the Kleiz. 180—CUTLETS IN ASPIC. 3 lbs. necli cutlets 1 carrot 2 slices bacon 1 onion Bunch of herbs J turnip Maconochie's sauce Cloves Pepper Salt Lemon Aspic jelly 1 pt. stock Mayonnaise Mode.—Trim the cutlets nicely and lay them in a stewpan well lined with bacon, the vegetables peeled and sliced, three or four cloves, the herbs and two or three slices of lemon, add seasoning of pepper and salt, and add one pint of stock flavoured with the sauce, let the cutlets braise in this for an hour, they must only simmer the whole time and must be thoroughly cooked. Then take them out and lay aside to cool, strain and reduce the sauce to a glaze, dip the cold cutlets in this two or three times until thickly coated, then glaze with the meltedMutton Entrees. aspic jelly, dipping them in two or three times and allowing to set between each time. When thoroughly glazed and set arrange on a bed of lettuce with some good mayonnaise in the centre ; garnish with chopped aspic. 181—STEWED MUTTON AND CAULIFLOUR. 2 lbs. neck of mutton 1 qt. of water 1 large onion Salt and pepper Small bunch parsley 1 small cauliflour Mode.—Chop up the neck of mutton into pieces of about four inches long, put it into a saucepan with the onion (sliced), pepper and salt and parsley, allow it to simmer very gently for two hours. Cut up the cauliflour into small pieces and add to the stewed mutton, and boil again for another half hour. Serve with it triangles of dry toast. 182~POEK PIES. To Make the Pastry— 1 lb. flour i lb. lard 1 large cupful of milk 1 teaspoonful of salt Mode.—Boil the milk and lard together, and when quite boiling stir them into the flour (which must be previously sifted into a basin with the salt), then roll out and press over a salt jar (or any other block that will answer the same purpose), making it the size of an ordinary pork pie ; allow this to stand over night. Filling for Pies— 1^^ lb. pork 1 leaf green sage Sprig of fresh thyme 2 teaspoonfuls black pepper 1 leaf gelatine 1 teaspoonful salt ^ pt. water. Mode.—Out the pork into very small dice-shaped pieces, also all the fat; chop the herbs very finely; put with the pork, pepper and salt into a small saucepan and stew for half an hour; add a leaf of gelatine; fill up theMutton Entrees. pastry moulds (which ought to be well raised); cover each mould with a round of pastry, pinch the edges well together, ornament the top, and brush over with a little milk ; bake in a moderate oven for three quarters of an hour. 183—LAMB'S FRY AND BACON. 1 lamb's fry Flour Salt Pepper Dripping. Mode.—Cut the fry into pieces about two inches long, one inch wide, and half an inch thick ; pepper and salt each piece and roll in the flour. Put about two table- spoonfuls of dripping into a pan and allow it to boil, then drop each piece into the pan.BEEF ENTREES. 184—BEEF OEOaUETS. Remains of cold beef Herbs 1 onion 2 eggs Breadcrumbs. Mode.—Put the remains of cold beef through the mincing machine, also the onion; mix up with some breadcrumbs, herbs, pepper and salt, and a tablespoonful Worcester sauce ; moisten with an egg well beaten, form into balls or rolls, dip in the egg and breadcrumbs and f^T. 185—HASHED BEEF. Remains of cold beef Sauce 2 onions Pepper and salt. Mode.—Slice the onions and fry in a little butter, when quite cooked add a little flour and a couple of tablespoonfuls of ketchup, pepper and salt; allow all to cook for about ten minutes. Cut the beef into small dice- shaped pieces, put these in the saucepan, and barley, cover with stock if you have it, if not, with water, or soup made from Liebig's Extract, and allow to simmer for one hour. 186—STEWED BEEF AND MUSHROOMS. Cold beef Pepper and salt 2 onions Small piece of ginger 1 tin mushrooms or 1 lb. fresh (if obtainable). Mode,—Prepare the onions as the other recipes, but Gut the meat in very thin slices and sprinkle it with flour, fry it with the onions, stew it with the liquor from theBeef Entrees. tinned musliroonis, if fresh add no water, but put tlie fresh ones in with the meat and onions, there will be sufficient liquor from them to stew the beef, add pepper and salt to taste. 187—STEWED BEEF AND WALNUTS. Cpld beef 2 onions ' ' ^ bottle pickled walnuts Cloves and ginger ■ Stock. Mode.—The fatty end of a sirloin of beef is best for this dish. Stew the beef well for about two hours in stock, if any, if no ^tock^ water or beef extract will do, with the cloves, onions and ginger, thicken it with a little flour, cut up the walnuts each into four pieces, and add about ten minutes before required. 188—MINCED BEEF. 1 lb. beef 1 onion Wineglass sauce Salt and pepper to taste 1 tablespoonful of butter. Mode.—Mince the beef and onions together, put into a saucepan with the butter, and about a wineglassful of sauce, pepper and salt to taste ; cook for quarter of an hour. Dish up with mashed potatoes. 189—DBY HASH. Eemains cold corned beef 1 onion Cold boiled potatoes Sauce Pepper and salt. Mode.—Mince the beef, also the potatoes (these are much easier dealt with if put through the machine also), and onion, mix the meat and two-thirds of the potatoes and onio'n, aild a little sauce, pepper, and put in a pie-dish. Mix all the remaining potatoes and onions with some bntter and cover the dish with them, ani hake abou^ twenty ujinutes.Beef Entrees. 190-CUEEIED BEEF. ' Cold beef Butter Onions Cloves, etc. Apple Curry powder. Mode.—Slice the onions and fry in butter witb the apple (cut very small), cloves and a tablespoonful of chutney; when the onions are cooked add the curry powder, and allow all to cook for about ten minutes; cut the beef very small and put to this, cover with stock, ex- tract of beef, or water, allow to stew gently for about an hour, never add flour to curry. Serve up with boiled rice. - 191—SAVOUEY MEAT PIE. 4 large potatoes 1 lb. cold beef 1 onion Pepper and salt. Mode.—Slice the potatoes and onion, and place a layer of these in the bottom of the pie-dish, then a layer of beef (which has been previously minced), pepper and salt, fill up the dish with alternate layers, nearly fill the dish with warm water, cover and allow to bake for an hour ; remove the cover and put on a crust of short paste, and return to the oven until the paste is well cooked. 192—BEEF OLIVES. 1 small onion Breadcrumbs 6 olives Pepper, salt and flour Parsley Butter 1 lb. steak or remains cold sirloin. Mode.—Out the steak or beef in thin squares of about three inches ; make a stufiing of the onion chopped very fine, chopped, parsley, olives, breadcrumb?, a tahlespoonful of', butter, pepper and salt; put a little of this in the squares of beef, auid roll, 8ew up with fine cotton, roll each in flour, and pack them tightly in a saucepan with about a table-Beef Entrees. spoonful of butter, shaking them occasionally so as not to burn them, when nicely brown cover with water or stock, or a little beef extract in water ; put in the stones of the olives and allow to simmer for an hour an a-half. The longer they cook the better. Strain the gravy and thicken with a little more flour if required. 193—STUFFED STEAK OE BEEF. 1 lb. steak or remains of an underdone sirloin. Breadcrumbs Parsley 1 egg Pepper and salt Eschalots A little ketchup. Mode.—Cut your steak or beef in slices about a quarter of an inch thick, beat them to make them level, brush over with an egg; sprinkle the breadcrumbs, chopped eschalots and parsley, pepper and salt; roll them and lay them closely together in a saucepan, cover with water or stock, well seasoned, put in a tablespoonful of ketchup and boil for two hours slowly. Thicken the gravy with a little flour. 194—KIDNEY A LA MILANESE. 4 ozs. butter 1 onion 2 ozs. tomato sauce 1 ox kidney 1 dessertspoonful chopped Pepper and salt, parsley Mode.—Poll the butter in flour, and fry a golden color? add a pint of stock and the tomato sauce, the onion (chopped very finely), and the kidney sliced very thin. Stew this over a slow fire for forty minutes, add half a pint claret and a tablespoonful of fiour, and stir for ten minutes. Serve with mashed potatoes. 195—MINCED KIDNEY ON TOAST. 1 ox kidney 2 ozs. butter 2 eggs A little chopped parsley Salt and cayenne. ,Beef Entrees. Mode.—^Put the kidney through the mincing machine, put into the saucepan with the butter and allow to simmer until the kidney is cooked, stirring all the time ; then add the chopped parsley, a little cayenne and salt, then add the two eggs, which have been well beaten, stir over a fire for about ten minutes and serve on hot toast. This is a nice breakfast dish. 196—-DEVILLED KIDNEYS. 1 ox kidney Cayenne A little mustard Butter and salt. Mode.—Cut the kidney in slices about half an inch thick, score with a sharp knife, mix the mustard with the butter, cayenne and salt \ put this mixture into the scores and spread w^ell over the kidney, and then grill over a nice clear fire. Serve at once, as devilled kidneys get very hard if left standing. 197—STEWED KIDNEY. 1 ox kidney 4 cloves 1 onion Flour and butter Pepper and salt. Mode.—Slice the onion and cook it in the butter, put in the cloves; cut the kidney in small dice, shake a little flour over it, also a little pepper and salt, put in the sauce- pan and allow to stand by the fire for about a quarter of an hour ; then add a cupful of water, and simmer for an hour. Serve with mashed potatoes. A little bacon stewed with the kidney is an improvement. 198—BEEF 3 lbs. thick flank of beef Few slices of bacon Black pepper 1 onion 1 carrot 1 turnip A LA MODE. 2 sticks celery (if obtainable) Pepper and salt I cup vinegar Heaped up teaspoonful of chopped herbs, cloves and allspice.Beef Entrees. Mode.—Out the onion in very thin slices and fry in a little butter, get a nice piece of beef with not too much fat, cut your bacon in thin strips, and with a larding needle run it through the beef in about six or eight different places, if no larding needle cut holes and put in the bacon, cut scores in the beef and put in part of the herbs that have been moistened with vinegar, tie up your beef with a piece of tape to keep it in a roll, put it in a saucepan that will hold it, stew the remainder of the herbs and onion over the beef, cover with water, cut up the vege- tables and stew with the beef for two hours ; do not let it boil hard as the beef becomes tough. 199—MINCED BEEF AND POACHED EGGS. Bemains of cold beef Salt and pepper A little ham or bacon Butter Eggs. Mode.—Put your beef and ham through a mincing machine, then put about a teaspoonful of butter, and a tablespoonful of water into a saucepan with the mince- meat; add a little Maconochie's sauce, season nicely with salt and pepper, allow it to simmer just while you are poach- ing the eggs, put it on a small hot dish with pieces of toast; then lay on the eggs and serve at once. 200—GEILLED STEAK OR CHOPS. Mode.—Get a nice piece of fillet steak about an inch and a half thick, put it on a grill over a nice clear fire, grill for about ten to fifteen minutes according to how you like it done; put it on a hot dish, sprinkle it with pepper and salt, and spread a little butter on it, allow it to stand in the oven for a minute or two until the butter is melted. Do the same with chops. 201—HAMBURG STEAK No. 1. 1 lb steak A few herbs 1 small onion w Pepper and salt. ^Beef Entrees. Mode.—Put the steak and onion through a mincing machine, mix with it the herbs, pepper and salt, put some dripping (about a tablespoonful) into a frying pan, then form the mince into flat steaks, put them into a pan and brown, then turn them very carefully to the other side, when that is nicely browned put on to a hot dish, dredge a little flour, and pepper and salt, into the pan, put in a little water, allow it to simmer for a minute or so, then pour the gravy over the steaks. 202—PORTEEHOUSE STEAKS (Larded). ' • 1 porterhouse steak (see 1 onion note at foot) A little dripping 2 ozs. fat bacon Water 1 carrot Pepper and salt 1 turnip A teaspoonful of N.Q.M.E. Co.'s extract of beef. Mode.—Cut the bacon into long narrow strips, and lard the steak only on one side ; cut the vegetables into pieces about a quarter of an inch long, place them in a pie-dish with some dripping, pepper and salt, then lay the steak on the larded side up, pour a little water in, then bake for three quarters of an hour ; take up the steak and put on a hot dish; Mix the Eiebig with the gravy and strain it over the steak. Note.—A porterhouse steak is cut from the sirloin about one and a half inches thick throughout, must contain the bone (chine bone) and should have the undercut. Mode—Slice the onion, put it mto the saucepan with the butter and fry a nice brown ; cut the steak into pieces of about two inches long and one and a half inches wide ; 203—STEWED STEAK. ] oz. of butter 1 onion J pt. water 6 cloves 1 lb. good steak 1 teaspoonfulN.Q.M.E. Go's. extract of meatBeef Entrees, roll each piece in a little flour, put into the saucepan with the onions and allow it to cook for quarter of an hour ; then put in the water, cloves bruised, pepper and salt, allow to simmer one and a half hours, then put in the extract of meat and serve with mashed potatoes. 204—CASSEROLES OF COLD MEAT. ^ lb. cold beef 2 chopped eschalots 1 lb. cold potatoes (very fine) 1 oz. butter 2 eggs Breadcrumbs Salt and pepper 1 teaspoonful of N.Q.M.E. Co.'s extract of meat. Mode.—Mash the potatoes and mix with the butter, pepper, salt, eschalot (very finely chopped), and one egg well beaten, put the meat through a mincing machine, season with pepper and salt, mix a teaspoonful of extract with a little water, simmer it for about ten minutes; form the potatoes into balls, carefully take out the centre and fill up with mincemeat, then brush over with a little egg and roll in breadcrumbs; fry a nice golden brown in boiling dripping; sprinkle a little chopped parsley over thera and serve very hot. 205—BRAIZED STEAK. 2 or 3 lbs. rump steak Salt and pepper 2 or 4 onions Butter. Mode.—Have a steak cut by the butcher quitp an inch and a half in thickness, at the bottom of a stewpan put the butter, on this lay the steak (do not cut it up), as closely as possible, pepper and salt to taste; peel the onions and cut them in thick slices, place on top of the steak, salting them moderately ; cover the stewpan down closely and place it on the stove where it will simmer very slowly for quite three hours, no water must be added. Serve with or without the onions and strain the gravy over.Beef Entrees. 206— STEWED OX TAIL AND WALNUTS. 1 ox tail 1 onion 6 pickled walnuts 3 cloves J pt. water Pepper and salt. Mode.—Chop up tlie ox tail into small pieces and slice the onion, put them on to boil in a pint of water, together with the cloves, pepper and salt; boil for two hours, cut the walnuts into eight pieces each and put in the stew, allow to simmer half an hour, thicken with a little flour. 207— STEWED OX TAIL AND TOMATOES. 1 ox tail Butter 6 tomatoes Little parsley 1 onion Pepper and salt Mode.—Cut up the ox tail, cover with water and boil for two hours and a half with pepper and salt to taste, slice the onion and fry in the butter, put in a little caj^enne and salt, when nearly cooked slice the tomatoes and add with the chopped parsley, strain the ox tail, put in a dish and cover with the tomato sauce. The liquor of the ox tail should be used as soup ; either add the very thin ends of the tail chopped very small with a little herbs, pepper and salt, and a teaspoon- ful of sauce, or some vegetables sliced small, and boil again for one hour. 208—STEWED BEEF AND CELEEY. 3 lbs. steak 8 cloves I head of celery 1 onion , ^ Pepper and salt. - ' . Mode.—Cut the steak into pieces of about two inches square, put on in a saucepan with a pint and a half of water, pepper and salt, cloves and the onion cut into small pieces, wash the celery and take away the leaves ^the green stalks can be used for this), cut the celery into pieces oj about four inches long; put into the saucepan and allow"Beef Entrees. to boil slowly for about two hours; a tablespoonful oi Worcestershire sauce rather improves it; thicken the gravy with a little flour. 209—BEOILED STEAK. 2 lbs. fillet steak Chopped parsley A little butter Pepper and salt. Mode.—Cut the steak into nice thick pieces of about four inches square, spread a little buiter over it on both sides, put on the grill over a very nice clear fire; cook from eight to ten minutes; put it on a very hot plate, add little more butter, pepper and salt, and sprinkle a little parsley over it. Serve straight from the grill. 210— BOILED OX TONGUE. 1 tongue Salt. Mode.—Wash and clean the tongue, rub it well with salt; put it into a saucepan with about two quarts of water or as much as will cover it, allow to boil for three hours, take out and skin ; if it is wanted to be used cold, when skinned put back into the water and allow to remaiii there till cold. 211— PEESSED OX TONGUE. 1 tongue 6 cloves Whole pepper Salt. Mode.—Put the tongue on in as much water as will cover it, with the cloves, whole pepper and salt; allow it to boil for five hours ; take out the skin, take away all small bones, etc., and put into a presser, screw down tight; when cold it is ready for use. 212—POTTED TONGUE. Ox tongue Cayenne Salt Vinegar.Beef Entrees. Mode.—Soak the tongue in vinegar for a night, put on to boil in half water, half vinegar, allow to boil three hours ; put through a mincing machine, then pound oip in a mortar with some pepper, salt and a little cayenne ; put into jars, melt some butter or lard and cover each jar to keep airtight; fasten each jar with a piece of parchment, tie tightly and store till required. 213— STEAK AND OYSTEE PIE. 2 lbs. steak 3 doz. oysters Pepper and salt Short paste. Mode—Cut the steak in small pieces about half an inch thick, put in a pie-dish with some black pepper and salt, fill the dish with the steak and the seasoning and about half fill with water; put in the oven and cook for one hour ; prepare the oysters with some white sauce and pepper and salt, take out your pie-dish, add the oysters to the steak, cover with a light short paste made with butter, put back in the oven and cook for about twenty minutes when the crust ought to be nicely done. 214— STEAK AND KIDNEY PIE. 6 sheep's kidneys 1 onion 2 lbs. steak Pepper and salt. Mode.—Cut the kidneys in eight, put half of them in the bottom of the pie-dish, then a layer of steak cut small, a layer of onion very thinly sliced, pepper and salt, con- tinue in alternate layers until the dish is filled, half fill the dish with water, cover with a nice short paste and cook in a medium oven. If pufO paste is used for pies, it requires a quick oven, as the paste gets cooked before the steak and kidney ; it is always best to partially cook the steak and kidneys somewhat before, then put on the paste and cook quickly ; if slowly, the paste gets soddened and heavy.Beef Entrees. Mode.'—Get a basi^ whicli you think will about bold the me%t, line with a paste ma'de of suet (boiled paste foi pucjdings), cut the ld(fney into rather small pieces, put a layer in the bottom and the^n put in a layer of steak, cut into pieces ^bout two i^nches long and one wide, then pepper and salt^ a layer of onions and mushrooms, or oysters (whieherer you like best), fill your basin with alteraiaLt© layers, then put in water within an inch of the top ; put over a layer of paste, get up the piece over- lapping the baisin and pinch the twd pastes together so as to £eep it close. Put over a cloth aitd tiB down (dip the dlotk in hot water and sprinkle with flour), put the pud- ditig in a saucepan of boiling water and allow to boirl for four hours ; keep the saucepan always f ulL Mode.—Minca the steak and onion, put into a small sa;iacepan with a little butter and a tablespoonful of Wor- cestershire sawe and very little gravy or water; allow it to cook. Line some patty pans with the paste, put in a tablespoonful of the mince, cover with the paste, nip the edges and keep tight, and bake in a very hot oven. 217—BEEF PATTIES—(Another way). Mode.—Mince the meat as before, cut the paste in squares, put in a tablespoonful of the mince, pinch the paste togetlier cornerways, and fry in clarified dripping. 216—STEAK PATTIES. 1 lb. steak 1 onion Sauce Puff paste Pepper and salt.Beef Entrees. 218—SEA PIE. 1 lb. gravy beef 1 onion 2 lbs. potatoes Suet paste Pepper and salt. Mode.—Line a disli with the paste ; cut the meat into small pieces, put in the onion, sliced, pepper and salt ; slice the potatoes and fill the dish with them, cover with another paste, tie down and put in boiling water and boil for two hours ; keep the saucepan full of water all the time. 219—HOT POT PIE. Eemains cold beef or mutton Onions Potatoes Parsley Pepper and salt. Mode.—Slice your meat thinly, also the onions and potatoes; put a layer of meat, one of potatoes, one of onions, pepper and salt, and chopped parsley, continue thus until the pie-dish is quite full, put in about half a pint of water or stock, a little butter, put in a slow oven and cover with another dish ; allow to cook slowly for one hour and a half. 220~TOAD IN THE HOLE. Slices of cold beef or mutton Elour 3 eggs Pepper and salt. Mode.—Cut up the meat into small pieces, make a batter of the eggs and flour, and a little milk, pepper and salt to taste ; put the meat into a pie-dish, pour over the batter and bake. 221—BEEF A LA ESPAGNOLE. Remains of cold beef Salt 6 tomatoes A little grated cheoso 3 onions Breadcrumbs Cayenne Butter.Beef Entrees. MoD^:.—Slice the onions, put into a pie-dish with the butter, place in the oven and allow to cook; in the mean- time put your meat through the mincing machine, when the onions are cooked take out half; put half the mincemeat into the pie-dish, three tomatoes, sliced, and sprinkle some cheese, pepper, salt, cayenne, then again onions, meat, tomatoes, etc., cover with the remaining cheese and breadcrumbs, and bake until it is nicely browned. 222—STEWED BEISKET BEEF AND BEANS (Sour Bean Stew). 2 lbs. brisket beef 6 cloves \ peck French beans 1 tablespoonful brown sugar 1 cupful vinegar 2 onions. Mode.—Cut the beef into large pieces, put on to boil slowly ; watch, and as the scum and fat rise, skim ; allow it to boil with the onions for four hours, pepper and salt to taste; cut the beans, not too fine, and put them with the meat about three quarters of an hour before it is re- quired for use. When the beans are sufficiently cooked, put in the vinegar and sugar, thicken with a little flour; allow all to simmer until required. 223—BUBBLE AND SQUEAK. Bemains cold corned beef Cabbage Cold potatoes Pepper and salt. Mode.—Cut the corned beef in very thin slices and fry ; put on a dish, and fry the cabbage and potatoes in a little butter, and season to taste; place the vegetables over the meat and serve very hot. 224—HAEICOT OX TAIL. 1 ox tail 3 turnips 1 onion 6 cloves 3 carrots 1 piece of ginger A little butter.Beef Entrees. Mode.—Slice your onion and fry in the butter, chop the ox tail into small pieces, put into the saucepan with the onion, cloves, ginger, pepper and salt, and allow it to simmer for about an hour: cut the turnips and carrots into slices, not too thin, put with the ox tail and stew for another hour and a half. Thicken with a little four, and, if not dark enough, add a few drops caramel. 225—POTATO PIE. 1 lb. of potatoes 1 egg 1 lb. of mincemeat Salt and pepper to taste J a pt. of gravy Butter. Mode,—Mash the potatoes with a little butter, the egg (well beaten), and pepper and salt, line a buttered pie- dish with about three parts of the potatoes; fill in with the mincemeat and gravy, season to taste (a little tomato may be added if liked), then cover with the remainder of the potato and bake for twenty minutes. 226—SAYOUEY STEAK. 2 lbs. of steak 3 cloves 1 onion with the skin on 1 pt. of stock Salt and pepper The rind of 2 slices lemon 2 carrots 1 turnip Mode.—Put the steak in a covered jar with all the ingredients, then cover with the stock, place in a hot oven for an hour or an hour and a half, take out the steak and strain the gravy, thicken it a little, and pour over the steak and it is ready for use. The skin of the onion colors whatever it is boiled in, and saves coloring. 227—SAYOTJEY GALE'S LITER. 1 calf s liver 2 ozs. of bacon 1 onion ^ a pt. of stock Salt and pepper to taste.Beef Entrees. Mode.—Cut the bacon into very thin slices and put in a small saucepan with the onion which you have pre- viously chopped very fine, allow it to remain on the fire until the onion is cooked, cut the liver into very small pieces and put in with the onion, bacon, and the stock; salt and pepper to taste, allow to simmer for half an hour, thicken the gravy a little, garnish a dish with mashed potatoes, put the liver on the centre and serve at once. 228—COLD MEAT AND EICE PIE. 2 cupfuls of boiled rice 2 onions Eemains of cold beef or J a pt. gravy mutton Parsley Butter, pepper and salt. Mode.—Butter a pie-dish, sprinkle over the bottom about one-third of the rice, then put in a layer of cold meat cut into dice shaped pieces, slice one of the onions and put that in with the parsley chopped ; then add pepper and salt, and the remainder of the meat, cover these with the stock or gravy, then put on the rice, slice the other onion very thin and lay on the rice, put pieces of butter over this and bake for half an hour. 229—POOE MAN'S PIE. 2 lbs. cold roast beef 1 lb. cold potatoes 4 hard boiled eggs 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of 2 tablespoonfuls of Wor- water cester sauce ^ oz. of butter Salt and pepper. Mode.—Mince the meat and place in a pie-dish with the salt, pepper, water and sauce ; mix all well together ; cut the eggs into thin slices and place on top of mince. Mash the potatoes and spread thickly over the top ; season with pepper and salt, place pieces of butter on top and bake it for half an hour*Beef Entrees. 230—STUFFED BOIjEE OF BEEF. 6 lbs. boler of beef 2 onions Dripping 6 I'eaves sage E^eaScrumbs 1 egg Pepper and salt. MOD^E.—Slice the onions and elitp them very finely witk tte sage., put them into a small saucepan witib a little dripping and let tliem cook for twenty minutes. Mix witii a cup -and a half of breadcrumbs, season well with pepper and salt^ beat up the egg and mi:^ together ; stuff the beef with this, place in a baking dish with plenty of dripping, and bake in a fast oven for two hours, l^is is a good dish for a large family as there is no waste. 231—KIDNEY OMELETTE. 2 sheep's kidneys 2 eggs J a teasjDoonful chopped 1 dessertspoonful of butter parsley Salt and pepper. Mode.—Beat up the yolks and whites of the eggs separately; mince tke ki-dneys and add to the yolk of the eggs, also the chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Put the butter into a small pan and Wnen it is hoiling, stir the whites of the eggs (which has previously been beaten to a stiff froth) to the'other ingredients aod pour into the p-an, loosen the edges of the omdlette with a knife and when ni<5Bly browned, double ovei" and turn out on to a very hot plate and serve at once. 232—KIDNEY SAUTE AND MUSHEOOMS. 6 sheep's kidneys 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley 2 tablespoonfuls butter 1 tin English black mush- Pepper and salt to taste rooms, or fresh on'es if 1 wineglass of port wine obtainable A little flour.Beef Entrees. Mode.—Cut tlie kidneys into dice shaped pieces, sprinkle them with pepper and salt and flour; put the butter into a pan and when nice and hot put in the kidneys, shake the pan well and cook for about five or seven minutes. Cut the mushrooms each into four and put into the pan with the kidneys, add the parsley and wine and allow them to fry gently for about ten minutes, place in a hot entree dish and serve at once. 233—HAMBUEG STEAK No. 2. 2 lb. steak 1 tablespoonf ul chopped parsley Salt and pepper A few herbs 1 egg 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 1 teaspoonful of Maconochie's sauce. Mode.—Mince the steak very finely and season well with pepper and salt, mix the parsley, herbs, sauce and the egg ; make it into nice balls about the size of a duck egg. Put the butter into a pan, when hot, place in the balls and fry a nice brown, then turn them carefully and fry the other sidb, sprinkle with chopped parsley and serve at once. 234—FILLET STEAK AND MACAEONL I lb. fillet steak Salt and pepper \ lb. macaroni 2 tablespoonfuls butter 1 bulb garlic. Mode.—Cut the fiilet into pieces about three inches square and one and a half thick and grill nicely over a clear fire; put the macaroni on in a small saucepan of boiling water with the garlic and a teaspoonful of salt; when cooked take out the piece of garlic and strain; place the macaroni on to a hot dish, mix about half the butter with it while hot, and sprinkle freely with pepper, place it into the oven until the steak is cooked ; then place the pieces of steak neatly around the dish, spread a little butter on each piece and sprinkle with salt and pepper, serve at once very hot.VEAL 235—STEWED VEAL. Eemains of cold veal Pej^per and salt 1 onion Butter Bunch sweet herbs Mushroom ketchup Mode.—Slice the onion and fry in about a tablespoon- ful of butter; cut the veal into small dice-like pieces, dredge a little flour, pepper and salt, and add to the onions, cover with stock, if you have it, or water, mixed with a little beef extract, put in the bunch of herbs ; stew for one hour and a-half to two hours, take out the herbs, add a tablespoonful of ketchup and thicken with a little flour. 236—MINCED VEAL AND POACHED EGGS. Remains of cold veal Chopped parsley 1 onion Pepper and salt 1 tablespoonful of Worcester- Eggs shire sauce Mode.—Put the veal with the onion through the mincing machine, chop the parsley very fine, put it all, with the pepper, salt and sauce, into a saucepan, and a cupful of water ; allow it to simmer for an hour. Dish up with small triangles of toast and poached eggs on the top. 237—VEAL CUTLETS 2 lbs. loin veal Breadcrumbs 1 egg Pepper and salt Flour Chopped parsley. Mode.—Cut the veal away from the bone in pieces of about half an inch thick, flatten with the chopper, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and squeeze a little lemon over them, dredge with flour, dip in the egg (which you must haveVeal well beaten), then into the breadcrumbs, into which you mix a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, put into a pan with boiling dripping, and fry for twenty minutes; keep turning the cutlets often to prevent burning. Veal must be very well cooked. Serve on pieces of toast with slices of lemon. 238—FEIED VEAL AND MUSHROOMS. Eemaiiis of cold veal Pepper and salt 1 tin mushrooms (if cannot Floiir get fresh) 1 tablespoonful of butter j- pt. of milk. Mode.—Put on the milk to boil, adding pepper, salt and the butter, thicken with a little flour, then add the mushrooms; cut the veal in nice thin slices and fry in a little butter ; dish on a hot dish and pour the mushrooms over it. If you have fresh mushrooms stew them with the milk, and when the mushrooms are cooked thicken with a little flour. 239—EAGOUT OF VEAL. Eemains of cold veal 6 cloves 1 onion Pepper and salt 2 carrots Wineglass of port wine 2 turnips Flour. 2 teaspoonfuls of paw-paw sauce. Mode.—Cut up the vegetables in square dice, put them in a saucepan with one pint of water, cloves, pepper and salt, bcil for on"e hour, cut up the veal in pieces of about two inches long and half an inch thick, add to the vegetables, boil for another hour, thicken with a little flour, then add the port wine and sauce. Serve with mashed potatoes. 240—FEIOASSEE OF VEAL. Eemains of cold veal 2 onions i pt. of milk Pepper and salt Flour.Veal. Mode.---Slice the onions and put on in a saucepan with half a pint of water, pepper and salt; boil until the onions are cooked, then slice the veal into thin slices, put in the saucepan and boil for half an hour, then add the milk and boil again; when boiling thicken with a little flour. 241—YEAL AND HAM PIE. 2 lbs. cold veal 3 hard-boiled eggs J lb. lean ham Pepper and salt Some herbs. Mode.—Cut the veal and ham into small pieces, put a layer of veal, then an egg cut into eight pieces, a layer of ham, pepper and salt, and so on till the pie-dish is full; half fill the pie-dish with water, cover with a nice pu:ff paste and bake. When the paste is cooked the pie ought to be ready for use. It is sometimes better to put the veal and ham into the oven without the pastry, as it is much nicer to be a little more cooked, but be sure you cover with a plate or a dish. 242—STEWED CALF'S FEET AND EICE. 4 calf's feet 2 pieces ginger 2 onions Pepper and salt 12 cloves Large cupful rice Mode.—Wash the feet thoroughly in boiling water, put into a saucepan with sufficient water to well cover them; peel the onions and stick the cloves in them, put them with the ginger into the saucepan and allow all to boil for three hours ; if the bones do not come away from the meat freely, boil a while longer; take out all the bones and the onions, put in the rice, with plenty of pepper and salt, and boil again for three quarters of an bour. Should it appear too dry add a little more water. Dish up and serve very hot.Veal 243—STEWED CALF'S FEET (with Lemon Sauce and Forcemeat Balls). 4 calf's feet Ginger 2 knuckles of veal Juice of 8 lemons 3 onions 6 eggs Parsley 2 cupfuls of breadcrumbs 1 teaspoonful marjoram 2 teaspoonfuls paw-paw sauce. Mode.—Wash the calf's feet thoroughly in boiling water; put them on to boil with the knuckles of veal and two sliced onions, ginger, sauce, pepper and salt, allow to boil for four hours ; take out all the largest of the bones and skim off every particle of fat. To Make Forcemeat Balls.—Take about half pound of veal, put through the sausage machine, also one large onion ; soak three quarters of a pound of breadcrumbs in a little milk ; wring out in a clean cloth, add to them the veal, onions, a fcablespoonful of chopped parsley, a tea- spoonful of marjoram, pepper and salt, three eggs and a tablespoonful of butter. Mix all together, form into small bails, put in with the calf's feet and boil for an hour. Lemon Sauce.—Squeeze eight lemons into a basin; put in as much of the liquor from the calf's feet as you have lemon juice, beat up six eggs and add, stirring the one way briskly all the time. Put into a small saucepan and boil; be sure to keep stirring all the time and the one way, otherwise it will curdle ; also be sure to add the egg to the lemon, not the lemon to the egg. Serve the sauce in a sauce boat separate from the stew, as some people may not like the sauce. 244—CALF'S FEET BEAWN. 4 calf's feet 12 whole peppers 2 knuckles of veal 8 cloves Saltspoonful cayenne Teaspoonful mixed spice Tablespoonful of salt Bunch of herbs.Veal. Mode.—Boil the knuckles of veal with the calf^s feet in enough water to well cover them all, add the cayenne, salt (more if required) whole pepper, spice, cloves and herbs, allow to boil for six hours ; take out all the meat and put it in a presser, screw down very tight; if ice is not obtainable put it where it will get cool and set; turn out of the presser and cut with a very sharp knife. The liquor can be cleared with the whites and shells of two eggs and strained, it makes excellent aspic jelly. 245—CIALE'S LIYEE AND BACON. 1 calf's liver Little flour Pepper and salt 3 tablespoonfuls dripping Mode.—"Wash the liver and cut away all the skin, gristle, etc.; cut the liver into pieces about three inches long, two inches wide and one inch thick, dry in a nice clean cloth, dredge a little flour over it, season with pepper and salt; put the dripping in the pan ; when it is hot and bubbling put in the liver and fry a nice dark brown ; pour away nearly all the dripping, dredge a little flour in the pan, pepper and salt, and put on the fire ; allow to brown, then pour on about half a cupful of boiling water; stir over the fire until it boils; pour through a strainer over the liver ; have some nice rashers of fat bacon cooked in the oven or on a grill. Serve with the liver. 246—CALEBS LIVEE AND TOMATOES. 1 calf's liver Butter 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley 1 egg 2 eschalots Breadcrumbs Cayenne and salt 4 tomatoes. Mode.—Cut the liver into pieces about half an inch thick and three inches long ; put the butter into a pan ; when boiled add the eschalots and parsley (chopped very finely), dip in each piece of liver and slightly cook ; take out, dip into the egg and breadcrumbs, then plunge them into boiling fat and fry a nice golden brown. Dish up with tomato sauce.Tomato Sauce.—Scald the tomatoes and skin; cut into thin slices, put into a saucepan with a little butter, salt and cayenne, cook until the tomatoes are quite tender. 247—CALF'S HEAD WITH PAESLEY SAUCE. Calf's head 1 cupful melted butter Salt 1 teaspoonful chopped par- sley. Mode.—To clean a calf's head put it into boiling water for three or four minutes, take out and scrape with a blunt knife, cut out the eyes and cut off the ears, allow the brains to soak in water for an hour, put the head in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, allow to come to a boil, skim off the scum as it rises, salt to taste, and allow to boil for three hours. Put on the brains and boil for half an hour ; take them out and cut them up into very small pieces, and add with the chopped parsley to the melted butter. Take up the head on a hot dish and pour the sauce over it. Serve very hot. 248—CALEBS SWEETBEEAD WITH MUSHEOOMS. 2 sweetbreads Elour 1 tin mushrooms (or 6 large ^ pt. of milk fresh ones Butter Cayenne and salt Chopped parsley. Mode.—Soak the sweetbreads for an hour in warm water with a teaspoonful of salt; pick off all the skin, cut away any fat or gristle, put on to boil in sufficient water to cover, allow to boil for half an hour, strain the water off. Put the sweetbreads in with the milk and half a teaspoonful of salt, a little cayenne and the mushrooms, allow to boil slowly for another half an hour, thicken with a little flour, put in about a dessertspoonful of butter and chopped parsley ; dish up the sweetbreads whole with the sauce. •'VeaL ; 249—STEWED SWEETBEEADS. 2 sweetbreads 1 onion Butter 1 glass port wine ElouT 1 lemon Mode.—Soak tlie sweetbreads for one hour in warm water and a little salt, melt the butter, cut the onion in very thin slices, put on to cook with the butter; when nicely bl'own put the two sweetbreads in, not cut, with a pint of water and black pepper, salt and juice of one lemon, and simmer slowly for one hour; thicken w4th a little flour, add the port wine, and allow to simmer for a quarter of an hour ; if not dark enough, put in a few drops of caramel. Put an edge of mashed potatoes around your entree dish and place the sweetbreads in the centre ; garnish with slices of lemon. 250-^GALANTmE OF VEAL. About 4 lb,s. breast veal ^ tin mushrooms 1 lb. mincemeat Black pepper 2 ozs. ham Salt Truffles (if obtainable) or Herbs Pate.-de-fois gras Most people think it is impossible to make this dish and similar ones in North Queenslrand, but I find no diffi- culty wh^atever, and it is especially easy to make it extra goo4 ; nearly all the ingredients can be obtained from the leading grocers. If you cannot get truffles get a tin or two of pate-de.-fois gras and mix with the mincemeat. Mode.—Get the breast of veal, cut away all the out- side pieces of skin, the bones and gristle, with a very sharp knife, taking great care not to cut through the meat, beat out the meat as flat as possible, put on a layer of the mincemeat and ham (pate-de-fois gras if you are going to use it), the mushrooms chopped very fine, sprinkle the dried herbs over, and black pepper and salt; this should be rather highly seasoned ; roll the veal very tight, put in a towel and tie up the ends very securely (like a roly-poly pudding) ; boil for two and a-half hours.Feal. Place between two dishes, put heavy weights on, and allow to remain until quite cold, then remove the cloth ; place on a dish with parsley and slices of lemon. The galantine is quite nice without the pate-de-fois gras or truffles, they only make it richer; for myself I prefer the mincemeat and ham only. The stock kept from calves' feet makes excellent glase for galantines, and, if kept in a cool place, will last for days. 251—CALF'S HEAD BEAWN. 1 head Cloves Whole pepper Salt. Mode.—Wash the head well; take out the brains, put on to boil with enough water to cover, put in plenty of salt; put the whole pepper and cloves in a small piece of mosquito net and boil with the head for five hours ; take out the head (remove all the bones), keep the meat as whole as you can, tongue and all, sprinkle it all well with black pepper and salt, put in the presser, screw it down as tight as you can ; allow to remain until quite cold ; turn out and cut with a very sharp knife. The water the head has been boiled in would make very good soup of any kind; the brains may be used as cutlets, for an entree. 252—MINCED YEAL AND MACAEONI. f lb. cold veal minced 2 eggs 3 or 4 ozs. ham 1 tablespoonful of butter A teaspoonf ul of breadcrumbs Pepper and salt to taste J lb. macaroni 1 tablespoonful of sauce Mode.—Put the macaroni on to boil in a pint of water with a teaspoonf ul of salt, allow it to boil for half an hour or until the macaroni is tender; mince the veal and ham, season with pepper, salt and a tablespoonful of sauce; beat up the egg and mix with the veal, also theVeal breadcrumbs and butter, form into small balls and boil for twenty minutes with the macaroni. A teaspoonful of extract of meat mixed with the macaroni is a great im- provement, or you can fiy the balls in boiling dripping and serve with the macaroni. 253—VEAL MOULDS, f lb. cold veal 1 teaspoonful chopped I lb. cooked bacon or ham parsley Nutmeg ^ teaspoonful herbs 1 egg 1 lemon 1 oz flour Pepper and salt J pt. brown sauce 1 oz butter J pt. good gravy. Mode.—Put the butter into a saucepan and when dissolved, stir in the flour till smooth, then pour in the gravy and stir till it boils, stir in the yolk of the egg and take off the fire. Mince the veal and the ham, or bacon, very finely and place in a basin, season with pepper and salt, nutmeg, herbs (dried and powdered), grated lemon rind and parsley; stir into the mixture in the saucepan and mix thoroughly. Eub some small moulds with dissolved butter or marrow, fill with the veal mixture and stand in a saucepan with sufficient boiling water to come half way up the moulds, place a piece of buttered paper over the top and steam for half an hour. Turn out the mould on to a hot dish, have ready some brown sauce nicely flavored, strain round th-e veal moulds and garnish with chopped parsley. 254—TONGUE BEAWN. 4 sheep's tongues 1 tablespoonful Worcester- shire sauce 1 eggspoonful of spice 3 pts. of water. Shin of beef 1 large onion Pepper and salt Ginger HVeal. Mode.—Boil the shin for about five hours in water; take all the gristle from it, hut no meat ; have the tongues boiled nice and tender, skin them and cut them up very small; slice the onion into little squares, place all fchese with the sauce, spice, ging'er (pepper and salt to taste), and a pint of the stock in a saucepan and stew till well cooked and mix with the meat and ginger. Put it in well damped moulds and place in a cool place until well set. 255—VEAL AND HAM PATTIES. ^ lb. cold veal 2 tablespoonfuls of butter J lb. lean ham Nutmeg 1 gill veal gravy Cayenne and salt A little grated lemon peel 1 tablespoonful of lemon 1 teaspoonful extract of beef juice Puff paste 2 teaspoonfuls paw-paw sauce. Mode.—Chop up the veal and ham very small, put it in a stewpan with the butter rolled in flour, the gravy, grated lemon peel, extract of beef, lemon juice, pepper, salt, a little nutmeg and paw-paw sauce. Mix all well together and stir over the fire until quite^ hot, taking care it does not burn. Cover some buttered patty pans with some pulf paste, fill with the mixture, then cover neatly with some more pufit paste, nip the edges closely and bake in a hot oven for one hour. 256—SWEETBEEADS AUX CHAMPIGNON. 1 calf's sweetbread 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 1 tin champignons Salt and pepper 1 teaspoonful chopped J a wineglass sherry parsley J an onion A little flour. Mode.—Put the sweetbread into a basin of hot water with a teaspoonful of salt and allow it to remain for half an hour. Slice and chop up the onion very finely, put itVeal. into a small frying pan with half the butter; when it is well cooked, cut the sweetbreads into the size you require (about two inches square) and place them in the pan with the onion and the remainder of the butter, fry them for about fifteen minutes. When nearly cooked put in the champignons each rolled in flour, sprinkle freely with pepper and salt, pour over these the sherry and shake the pan well so as to prevent them burning; allow it to simmer lor two or three minutes. Turn out into a hot entree dish, sprinkle with the parsley and serve at once.TRIPE. 257—HOW TO CLEAN TRIPE. Mode.—Nearly always you can get the tripe from the butchers ready for use ; should it not be partly boiled, you must wash it, cut away all the fat, soak in salt and water for one hour and a-half, dip in boiling water, then you can pick off any discolored parts ; put on to boil with about two quarts of water and two tablespoonfuls of salt; boil for one hour and a-half, it is then ready to dress in any way you wish. 258~TRIPE CUTLETS. 1 lb. tripe Breadcrumbs 1 egg Flour Pepper and salt. Mode.—Cut the tripe into two-inch square pieces, dredge the flour over them, sprinkle with pepper and salt; dip them into the egg well beaten, then into the bread- crumbs ; fry in boiling fat until a nice brown color. Serve a slice of lemon or a little tomato sauce 259—STEWED TRIPE AND ONIONS. 1 lb. tripe Milk 3 onions Flour Pepper and salt. Mode.—Cut the tripe into pieces about two inches square, peel and cut the onions each into four, put on in a saucepan with a pint of water, pepper and salt; boil for one hour or until the onions are well cooked; pour off nearly all the water, and add half a pint of milk, thicken with a little flour, allow to come to a boil; it is then ready for use.Tripe. 260—FEICASSEE TEIPE. 1 lb. tripe 1 egg J pt. of milk 1 tablespoonful chopped par- Pepper and salt sley. Mode.—Cut the tripe in pieces of about two inches square, put on to boil in the milk, add a glass of water; allow to boil for about half an hour ; beat up the egg with the pepper and salt and chopped parsley, and add to the tripe ; allow it to boil for about five minutes ; if not thick enough thicken with a little flour. 261—TEIPE FEITTEES. 1 lb. tripe 2 tablespoonfuls flour 1 egg 2 eschalots Pepper and salt. Mode.—Beat up the egg and make a batter with the flour, cut the tripe into pieces of about three inches long and two inches wide; chop up the eschalots very fine, sprinkle over the tripe, pepper and salt; dip each piece into the batter; have the pan ready with boiling fat; drop each piece of tripe in and fry a nice golden brown. Serve hot. 262—TEIPE ESPAGNOLE. 1 lb. tripe Cayenne 1 large onion Butter 2 large tomatoes Salt. Mode.—Peel and slice the onion very thin, place in a saucepan with a tablespoonful of butter, allow the onion to cook well; slice the tomatoes and add to the onion, also a saltspoonful of cayenne and salt to taste; cut the tripe into long narrow pieces, about two inches long and half an inch wide ; put in with the onion and tomatoes and allow to boil slowly for half an hour. Serve with mashed potatoes.THpe. 263—SAVOUEY TEIPB. 1 lb. tripe i teacupf ul white sauce J lb, butter 1 lemou (juice) Cayenne. Mode.—Put the butter into a saucepan with a salt- spoonful of cayenne, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, cut the tripe into very small pieces and put also in the sauce- pan, allow it to cook in the butter for about half an hour ; then add the white sauce, stir it all and allow it to come to a boil. Serve on squares of hot toast with a slice of lemon.CHICKEN AND FOWL RECIPES. 264—FEICASSEE CHICKEN. 1 chicken (or remains cold Flour chicken Pepper and salt 1 pt. milk 1 onion Butter 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. Mode.—Cut the chicken into rather small pieces, peel the onion and cut into four, put on in a saucepan with a pint of water, salt and pepper; allow to boil for an hour, pour off nearly all the water (which will do "for a little broth), aiiji add the milk, boil for half-an-hour, thicken with a little flour, and add the parsley; it is then ready for use. 265—STEWED CHICKEN AND EICE. Remains of cold chicken 1 piece ginger 1 onion i cupful rice Pepper and salt. Mode.—Cut up the cold chicken into pieces, slice the onioij, put on to stew in about a pint of water, add the ginger, pepper and salt ; allow to stew gently for an hour; wash the rice well and add to the chicken, allow it to simmer gently until the rice is well cooked. 266—CUREIED CHICKEN. Kemains of cold chicken 1 tablespoonful chutney 1 qnion 2 tablespoonfuls curry 1 apple powder J leraon Butter 1 tablespoonful cocoanut Cayenne and salt.Chicken and Fowl Recipes. Mode.—Slice the onion, put on in a saucepan with the butter; when the onion is cooked add the apple cut very small, chutney, the rind of the lemon and juice, cloves, cocoanut and curry powder ; allow them to cook slowly for half an hour, if you have milk add about half a pint, if not, water will do, chop up the fowl into small pieces, put it in with the other ingredients and allow to simmer for an hour; stir occasionally to prevent burning. Serve with boiled rice. 267—CHICKEN AND HAM PIE. 1 chicken or remains of cold Parsley one Pepper and salt 4 ozs. ham 2 hard boiled eggs. Mode.—Cut up the chicken, put it with the ham cut into rather small pieces into a saucepan with a little stock or water, put in a bunch of parsley, and pepper and salt; allow to boil until the chicken is tender ; turn out into a pie-dish (take out the parsley), cut up the eggs each into four and lay on the top of the chicken, cover with a nice piiff paste crust; bake'In a quick oven. 268—CHICKEN CEOQUETS. Eemains cold chicken 2 eggs A few leaves sweet herbs Breadcrumbs Pepper and salt. Mod.e.—Put the flesh of the cold chicken through a mincing machine ; chop up the herbs very fine, pepper and salt; mix all in a basin with an egg well beaten, and about a handful of fresh breadcrumbs, form into nice little rolls, dip in egg and breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling fat until a nice golden brown. Serve with chip potatoes. 269—CHICKEN CEEAM I chicken 1 egg 1 tabiespoonful butter Pepper and salt 1 cupful crearn.Chicken and Fowl Recipes. Mode.—Boil the chicken ; when boiled take off all the white flesh, mince it very finely, put it in a mortar and pound up to a cream, add the butter, pepper and salt, one egg- well beaten; beat up the cream till quite stiff and stir it in with the chicken, put it into a mould, steam for half an hour, turn out into an entree dish. Serve at once. 270—PILLAU OF FOWL. 1 fowl 2 onions 1 lb. rice Salt 2 ozs. butter 4 ozs. butter in thin rashers 6 cloves 2 hard-boiled eggs 8 whole pepper. Mode.—Put the fowl on to boil in sufficient water to cover, with the spices tied up in a small piece of muslin, put the rice in a pan with the butter and allow it to cook; if too dry add a little milk; keep stiring it so that it does not burn; take out the fowl and cut nicely into joints, put back in the water, but take out the muslin with the spices ; add the rice now to the fowl and boil for half an hour ; in the meantime cut the onions into slices, dredge a little jflour over them, fry in boiling fat, nice and brown and crisp ; dish up the fowl in a pyramid in the centre of a dish, put the rice round and garnish nicely with the onions and the hard-boiled eggs, each, cut into eight pieces. Serve very hot. 271—COUNTEY CAPTAIN. (Indian dish made with cold fowl), Eemains of cold fowl 10 Jordan almonds 3 onions \ lb. sultanas \ lb. butter Curry powder Salt and cayenne. Mode.—Slice the onions, dredge a little flour over them and fry in boiling fat uiitil nice and crisp ; cut up the fowl into neat pieces, make a paste with the butterChicken and Fowl Recipes. and two tablespoonfuls of curry powder, smother each piece of fowl with the paste ; put a layer of the fowl in a pie-dish, then a layer of onion, a few rasins and four of the almonds chopped up very fine, then put in the remainder of the fowl, onions, rasins, almonds ; bake in a smart oven for one hour. This is a rich dish and a favourite one. Season with a little cayenne and salt 272—SPATCH COCK. 1 young chicken Pepper and salt Butter. Mode.—Clean and wash the chicken ; open down the back, press out flat with the palm of your hand; chop ofl the legs well up to the thigh, double under the wings so that the whole is flat, spread a little butter, pepper and salt; grill over a very clear fire until cooked ; keep turning it to prevent burning. Serve with chip potatoes. 273—CHICKEN FOE AN INVALID. 1 chicken J- onion 1 thin slice bacon Bunch sweet herbs Mode.—Out off the wings, pinions, drumsticks, bacon and part of the back ; put on to boil with the onion and herbs for one hour in a pint of water; if you have any stock it will do better than water, strain ; put the chicken you have left (cut into very neat pieces) into the gravy and allow to simmer very gently for an hour (allow the gravy to get cold before you put the chicken in or it will be tough); add about a tablespoonful of sherry, and salt to taste. The gravy can be thickened if preferred. 274—CHICKEN FEICADEL. 1 chicken ^ teaspoonful pepper 2 slices bread 1 teaspoonful fresh mustard 4 eggs 1 dessertspoonful butter 1 teaspoonful salt 1 dessertspoonful Worces- tershire sauce.Cfidcken and Fowl Recipes. Mode.—Cut away all the flesh from the chicken, and put the bones on in half a pint of water with a little salt, and allow them to simmer for an hour ; put the flesh through a mincing machine, soak the bread in milk, squeeze it out and mix with the minced chicken, add also the four eggs well beaten, salt, pepper, mustard and butter; now pour over all the broth from the bones; butter a mould, and bake until the mixture is fairly dry. Turn out and serve. 275—CHICKEN CUTLETS. Eemains of cold chicken Flour 1 egg Pepper and salt Breadcrumbs. Mode.—Cut the meat from the bones with a very sharp knife into pieces of about two inches long and one and a-half wide, sprinkle pepper and salt on each piece, dredge a little flour, dip in the egg well beaten, then in the breadcrumbs ; fry in boiling fat or oil until a nice golden brown. Serve with chip potatoes. 276—GALANTINE OF CHICKEN. 1 chicken J lb. mincemeat J lb. ham Black pepper and salt. Mode.—Bone the chicken without breaking the skin, if possible; put the ham through the mincing machine, mix with other mincemeat, season well with black pepper ; spread out the chicken, lay on the mincemeat and roll up in a towel and tie each securely; then boil for one and a-half hours ; put between two dishes and press by putting a heavy weight on it; allow to remain until quite cold; remove the cloth and glaze. 277—TO BONE A CHICKEN. Mode.—Pluck and clean a nice young chicken ; chop off the leg bones; cut the skin down the backbone with a veiy sharp old knife; keep the knife very close to theChicken and Fowl Recipes. bone ; loosen the flesh from each leg and draw out the bones, then each wing likewise ; cut round the breast bone and draw all the flesh from the bones; put the bones on in a saucepan with about half a pint of water, and a tea- spoonful of salt, one leaf of leaf gelatine, and it will make the glaze for the galantine. 278—CHICKEN IN ASPIC. Remains of cold chicken 6 slices beetroot 1 pt. aspic jelly 2 hard-boiled eggs. Mode.—Have your shape very cold so that when you pour on the aspic the outside coating will set at once ; put slices of beetroot and white of the egg alternately around the shape; cut up the chicken in small even pieces, fill up the centre of the shape, then pour on the aspic; put into ice until set; turn out and serve with a salad. The aspic should be rather highly flavoured as chicken alone is rather tasteless. 279—CHICKEN MAYONNAISE. Eemains of cold chicken A little watercress J pt. of mayonnaise dressing 1 hard-boiled egg 1 crisp lettuce. Mode.—Tear your lettuce (as cutting with a knife spoils it), put it into an entree dish ; cut up the chicken into very small pieces, mix with the lettuce, pour over the mayonnaise ; garnish with a hard-boiled egg, and put the watercress round the dish. 280—BRAESIDE PATTIES. Eemeins of cold chicken Butter A little cold ham Pepper and salt A little chopped parsley 4 slices bread. Mode.—Chop up the chicken and two slices of ham rather small; put a tablespoonful of butter in a frying- pan ; toss in the chicken and ham with the parsley, andChicken and Fowl Recipes. eaute it with half a wineglass of sherry; cut the bread about two inches thick, and shape like oyster patties, scoop out the middle of the pieces of bread, being careful not to go right through ; fry in a panful of boiling fat, a nice golden brown, then fill the centre with the chicken saute. Serve at once very hot., 281—CHICKEN KROMISKIES. ^ cooked chicken 1 oz. flour 4 ozs. ham 1 oz. butter 4 ozs. tongue 1 gill good stock 1 lemon Parsley Fat bacon Salt and cayenne Butter Mushrooms or ketchup. Mode.—Mince the chicken, ham and tongue very finely; if mushrooms are to be had, mince about four ounces and add to the other ingredients, if not, add a little ketchup. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, stir in the flour till quite smooth, cook a minute or two without browning, dilute with a gill of stock or cream, or half of each; add a little finely-chopped parsley, the grated rind of half a lemon, cayenne and salt to taste ; add a few drops of lemon juice ; when all these are thoroughly mixed stir in the chicken, etc., and stir over the fire till thoroughly blended, then turn on a dish or plate till cold ; have ready some frying batter and thinly-sliced fat bacon. Shape the chicken mixture into cork-like rolls, roll each in a piece of bacon, dip in the batter and fry in a quantity of boiling fat, strain for a moment on kitchen paper, pile high on a hot dish, garnish with sprigs of fried or fresh parsley. Serve immediately 282—CHICKEN CREAM IN TOMATO ASPIC. J lb. cooked chicken Tomato aspic ^ pt. white sauce J oz. gelatine J pt. whipped cream 1 eschalot Salt and pepper.Chicken md Fowl Itecipes. Mode.—Mix the chicken and eschalot very finely, pound them well in a mortar with a tablespoonful of thick white sauce, pepper and salt; when smooth mix in half a pint of well flavoured white stock to which the gelatine has been added; rub through a hair sieve, then beat lightly the cream whipped. Line some dariol tins with aspic jelly, made as follows :— The pulp of four large ripfe tomatoes rubbed through a sieve with a gill of thick mayonnaise, a few drops of carmine or cochineal, a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, and half a pint of stiff aspic jelly. Allow the aspic lining to set, then fill with the cream, running a covering of aspic over the top ; place in a cold place or on ice till set. 283—chicken"! la eeine. J lb. cold chicken Bacon rolls J pt. white stock 2 small onions Cooked potatoes Bunch of herbs Blade of mace Cloves IJ ozs. butter 1 egg Salt and pepper 1 oz. flour Mode.—Cut the chicken into neat pieces, put tjie butter in a saucepan and dissolve it without browning; stir in the flour, pour on the white stock and stir briskly till it boils, season with pepper and salt; boil for three minutes, then put in the chicken, the onibns stuck with three or four cloves, the mace and herbs, and simmer for one hour ; make a ring of nicely mashed potatoes, dish the chicken neatly on it, put the sauce into a clean saucepan, beat in the yolk of the egg before placing over the fire ; bring to boiling point, add more seasoning if necessary and pour over the chicken, then fill up the centre with small rolls of grilled or baked bacon. 284-~DEyiLLED BONES. Eemains of cold shoulder of Mustard mutton Butter Chicken bones (or bones of any Cayenne cold poultry)Chicken and Fowl Recipes. Mode.—Chop the bones to a medium size, score them with a knife, mix about a teaspoonful of dry mustard with an ounce of butter and a little cayenne ; spread it in the scores cut in the meat, grill it over a nice clear fire ; while very hot put on a little more butter. Serve on a very hot plate with chip potatoes. 285—HASHED FOWL. Eemains of cold fowl 1 piece of ginger 1 onion Tablespoonful of butter Tablespoonful mushroom ^ pt. of water ketchup A few leaves of sweet herbs Pepper and salt to taste Tablespoonful of flour. Mode.—Cut away all the flesh from the bones of the fowl, put the bones into a saucepan with the water, herbs, ketchup, pepper and salt, and allow them to simmer for an hour. Slice the onion very finely and put into another saucepan with the butter, allow them to cook slowly until the onion is a nice brown colour ; cut the fowl into small dice-shaped pieces and add with the flour to the onion, then strain the liquor from the bones into this, and allow it to stew gently for half an hour. Serve with mashed potatoes. 286—STEWED GIBLETS AND LEMON SAUCE. 3 sets chicken giblets 3 or 4 cloves 1 onion 1 piece of ginger J lb. gravy beef Pepper and salt 1 cupful of water 1 tablespoonful chopped Small bunch sweet herbs parsley 2 eggs Juice of 2 lemons. Mode.—Cut up the gravy beef and put in a saucepan with the water, the onion (cut up), cloves, pepper and salt, ginger and herbs ; allow them to simmer for an hour ; strain, put the liquor back into the saucepan with the giblets and chopped parsley, and allow them to simmer for an hour and a half ; beat up the eggs well and add to theChicken and Foivl Mecipcs, juice of the lemons, pour this into the saucepan with the giblets and stir it until it comes to the boil; it is then ready for the table. Forcemeat balls are a great improve- ment to this. 287—FEIED FOWL AND TOMATO SAUCE. Mode.—Disjoint a nice yoimg chicken, wipe it quite dry with a clean towel, sprinkle it with pepper and salt; roll each piece in flour, then into the egg and bread- crumbs ; have a pan nearly full of boiling oil, put each piece of chicken in and fry for fifteen minutes. Serve either hot or cold with tomato sauce made from recipe No. 288—CHICKEN FEITTEES AND TOMATOES. Mode.—Cut the flesh from the bones of a cold chicken, mince rather finely; partly cook the tomatoes and pass through a sieve, mix with the chicken ; season well with pepper and salt: beat up the eggs well and stir in the flour and baking powder until it is thick enough to stick to the spoon ; then mix the chicken and tomatoes with the batter and drop in a tablespoonful into boiling fat and fry a nice golden brown. 1 chicken A little flour Oil 2 eggs Breadcrumbs Pepjjor and salt. 320. Eemains cold chicken 2 tomatoes Salt and pepper 2 eggs 2 tablespoonfuls flour J teaspoonful baking powderINVALID COOKERY, 289—GEUEL. 1 tablespoonful patent groats 1 pt. boiling water or milk A little cold water Pinch of salt Mode.—Mix the groats with a little water in a basin to a smooth paste, pour over it the boiling water or milk, stirring all the time ; put it into an enamelled saucepan and boil for ten minutes, keep stirring it well; sweeten it to taste and serve. Wine may be served in it if the patient is allowed it; two tablespoonfuls of wine to the pint is sufficient. For colds rum may be served in it, also a piece of butter the size of a walnut. 290—BEEF TEA 1 lb. lean gravy beef 1 qt. water Saltspoonful salt. Mode.—Cut the beef into small pieces about the size of dice, put it into a jar with the water (cold), stand the jar in a saucepan of water, put it on the fire and allow it to simmer for three or four hours. Should the invalid be very low, double quantity of meat can be used to the same amount of water. Be careful to remove every particle of fat and to allow the patient to salt to taste, as in some cases if it is too salt the patient may be delicate about the mouth or throat. 291—QUICKLY MADE BEEF TEA. 1 lb. gravy beef 1 pt. of water. Mode.—Pick out the beef without any fat whatever, pass through a mincing machine, put it in a jar with a pint of cold water, then stand the jar in the saucepan of cold Tv^ater. and place the saucepan on the fire and allow it to boil for one hour; remove the jar and pour it through a fine strainer, ; salt to taste, then it is ready for use. Irnvalid Cookery. 292^BEEF JELLY. 3'-lbs. gravy beef 1 qt. wat^er Sal^ to taste 1 oz. gelatine. Mode.—Cut up the beef into small pieces and put in a jap with the wajter and a little salt, tie it down securjely with brown paper, stand the jar in a moderate oven for four hours, then strain; dissolve the gelatine and add to the liquor ; in cold weather tliere is no necessity to use the gelatine; stand in a cool place. You will often find "an invalid will prefer the cold jejjy to hot beef tea, and it makes a nice change. 293—CHICKEN BROTH. 1 chicken ^ water Pepper and sUlt. Mode.—Get a chicken, cut it up into eight or ten pieces, season ^with salf and pepper to taste ; put into a jar with the water^ then stand the jar in a saucepan of water, place it on the fire and allow it to simmer for four or five hours; strain, allow it to stand until €00l, then remove all fat. If the invalid is strong enough to digest it with' a flavouring of herbs, it is much mi)re palatable with them ; I would, therefore, recommend it being made hot again with a little onion, mace or celery ; it would be necessary to allow another hour for this. 294—GUILLED CHICKEN. 1 chicken (young) Butter Salt. Mode.—Get a very young chicken, about two or three month's' old, pluck and*^ clean it nicely, split it down the back, twist the pinions under the wings and flatten them out, spread a little butter over it and put it on the grill over a very clear fire, watch it closely and keep turning it so that it will not get burnt, but will be well cooked rightInvalid Cookery. through ; it will take fifteen to twenty-five minutes ; put on a nice hot plate, sprinkle a little salt and butter over it and serve at once. 295—CHICKEN JELLY. 1 chicken 1 pt. of water Salt. Mode.—Chop up the chicken into small pieces, put it into a jar with the water and a little salt; tie the jar down with brown paper and stand it in a moderate oven for six or seven hours, take it out and strain through a tea towel or felt jelly bag; place in small tins which have been rinsed in cold water and stand in a cool place. This seldom wants gelatine. I have made it in the hottest weather and it has set nicely. 296—TOAST AND WATEE 1 slice of toast 1 qt. boiling water Mode.—Toast a slice of stale bread or a piece of crust to a nice brown on every side, but do not allow it to burn. Put it into a jug and pour the boiling water over it, cover it and allow it to remain until it is cold ; strain it and then it is ready for use. 297—BAELEY WATER. 1 oz. barley 2 qts. water. Mode.—"Wash the barley, then put it into a clean saucepan, and boil for two and a-half hours slowly, strain it and it is ready for use. Lemon juice may be added to this with a little sugar; it makes it more agreeable. 298—BARLEY WATER (Another Way). 2 ozs. clean pearl barley 4^ pts. cold water. Mode.—Pour half a pint of the water on the barley in a saucepan, and simmer slowly for ten minutes; pour off all the liquor remaining and add the four pints ofInvalid Cookery. water to tlie softened barley, and boil slowly till the quantity is reduced to one-half ; strain into a large jug in which one or two slices of lemon and a little sugar have been placed; when cold and properly stirred a cupful may be taken repeatedly ; a quarter of a pound of tamarinds or a little cream of tarter may be substituted for the lemon. It is as well then to strain it again to keep back the seeds, twigs, etc., and according to the ailment for which it is used, a wineglassful taken every one or four hours. In cases of cough or effections of the chest, a cool relaxing draught, acting on the vessels of the throat and chest is produced by adding one drachm of powdered nitre to each pint of barley water. 299—MUTTON BEOTH. 1 lb. neck of mutton 1 qt. water Salt and pepper 1 oz. rice or barley 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Mode.—Chop up the mutton into small pieces, put it into a stewpan with a quart of water and a little salt, stand it on the fire and allow it to come to the boil slowly, skimming it all the time as the scum rises. When nicely skimmed cover closely and allow it to simmer for two or three hours ; strain and put it back into the saucepan with the rice or barley and boil until they are sufficiently cooked ; put in the parsley just before serving. Vegetables may be added to this if wished. 300—DYSPEPSIA. Dyspepsia is a very common complaint in Australia ; people suffering from it should avoid the use of too much bread and potatoes. White bread is lighter and better than brown, and should be at least one day old ; thin dry toast or water biscuits will often be better to take; oat- meal is not good in many cases. If using potatoes, it is best they should be well baked in their jackets ; vegetables of any kind are inclined to produce flatulence, so that theyInvalid Cookery. should be taken moderately ; peas, French beans, cabbage, cauliflour may be taken if well boiled. Boiled fish of any kind may be taken, or oysters raw; fowl or game, or a nice tender steak underdone. Food recommended:— Baked apples Milk Tender rump steak Lightly boiled eggs Mutton chops Stale bread Lemon jelly Clear soup in small Roast potatoes in their quantities jackets Dry toast Roast chicken Roast beef underdone A little whisky and water at luncheon and dinner. 301—STEAMED FISH WITH SAUCE. A whiting or a nice fillet of Pepper and salt barramundi Milk Butter. Mode.—Cut the fish into nice fillets, skin it and place it on a buttered plate with another plate over it, over a pan of boiling water and cook it for fifteen minutes ; put the bones of the fish in a saucepan with a little milk, and allow it to boil (while the fish is cooking), strain the milk, then put it back into the saucepan ; thicken with a little flour, add a little butter, pepper and salt to taste ; pour it over the fish and serve. 302—SAVOURY SAGO. 1 oz. sago i pt. of water A teaspoonful of N.Q M.E. Co.'s Extract of Meat. Mode.—Boil the sago until quite clear, then stir in the teaspoonful of Meat Extract, add a little more if necessary ; this can be served hot or cold. 303—SAVOURY CUSTARD. 1 egg J cupful milk A little salt A teaspoonful N.Q.M.E. Co.'s Liebeg's Extract of Meat.Invalid Cookery. Mode.—Beat up the egg, acid the salt, milk and Meat Extract; stir until the extract is dissolved, pour into a buttered cup, cover with a buttered paper, stand in a saucepan containing sufficient water to come within an inch of the top of the cup. Put the lid on the pan and simmer for about ten to fifteen minutes; turn the custard out and serve. 304—BEEF TEA WITH EGG. Mode.—Well beat an egg, then strain it through a clean piece of muslin; pour a cupful of hot beef tea upon the beaten egg, season with pepper and salt and serve. 305—APPLE WATEE. Mode.—Slice, without peeling, a pound of apples, place in a quart of cold water, and then boil till the fruit is soft; strain through muslin and sweeten to taste ; to be taken when cold, 306—EGG DEINK (For Dryness of the Throat). Mode.—Mix to a smooth paste with water, a table- spoonful of the best arrowroot, add two tablespoonfuls of white sugar and the whites of two eggs (which have been whisked with a little water) ; add boiling water to make up the three pints ; drink when cold 307—MINCED BEEF. Mode.—Mince through a machine about half a pound of beef, with a little bacon and one onion; season with pepper and salt; take sufficient stock (made from bones or any trimming) and a small piece of butter (rolled in flour), put the whole into a stewpan, let it simmer for a few minutes and serve on a dish with sippets of toasted bread. A chicken may be done in the same way—of course bone it;—make the stock of the bones, season with a little lemon juice. This is a great improvement.Invalid Cookery. ICidney minced in the ^ame way as beef with sippets af toasted bread'and hard-boiled eggs grated on top. 308'—SPATCHCOCK. A young chicken Pepper ond salt 2 oz. butter. MoDn.'—A chicken freshly killed, picked and prepared, ^plit it in^^alves through the middle of the breast and back ; now pepper and salt it and rub all over with butter, theji place On a well greasBd gridiron and broil over a^nice bright clear fire. "When cooked lay on a round of toasted bread and serve very hot. A "pigeon don© this w'ay is delicious. 30^OMELEl\ Mode.-tA couple of eggs (separate the whites from the yolks), the yolks-^only beat thoroughly for five or eight minutes, sprinkle in a little pepper and salt, adso some chopped parsley (very fine) and a piece of butter. Beat all again wellfry like pancalh3S in a little butter. 310—LIGHT PUDDING. 3^penhy sponge cakes The peel and slice of half a 1 ^gg lemon Small piece of- butter A jittle sugar Milk. Mode.—-Soak the cakes in sufficient milk and mi^ them-with the above ingredients ; beat 1all together ; bake in k quick oven. 311—ANO^HEE LIGHT PUDDING. Mode'.—Put half a pint of fjresh milk into a saucepan to boil,, beat one egg (^the yolk and white well together), add to this a tablespoonful of flour and a pinch of salt; beat the egg and flour with sufficient cold milk to make a batter, pour all this to the boiled milk ; keep stirring until well Boiled^in the saucepan. Turn out on a dish and serve hot.SAUCES. 312—WHITE SAUCE. ^ pt. of milk Salt and pepper to taste 1 dessertspoonful of flour A small piece of butter Mode.—Boil the milk, mix the flour to a smooth paste; when the milk is boiling add the flour, pepper, salt and butter, stirring all the time until it thickens. When there is much cooking, it is wise to make a saucepan full of white sauce, as it is used in so many different dishes, and is chiefly the body of most sauces, 313—MELTED BUTTER. ^ lb. of butter Juice of a lemon A little cayenne. Mode.—Put the butter in a saucepan, place on the stove until it is melted nicely, add the juice of the lemon and cayenne ; serve in a sauce tureen. 314—MELTED BUTTEE (Another Way). J lb. of butter j pt. of water 1 teaspoonful of flour Salt and pepper to taste. Mode.—Eub the flour in the butter until perfectly smooth in a saucepan, put on the fire and pour the water in very slowly until all is nicely blended ; allow it to come to the boil; pepper and salt to taste. 315—PARSLEY SAUCE. J pt. of white sauce 1 teaspoonful chopped par- Pepper and salt sley. Mode.—Make your white sauce, and when just boiling add the parsley very finely chopped.Sauces, 316—EGG SAUCE. ^ pt. white sauce 1 hard-boiled egg. Mode.—Make the white sauce and chop up the egg rather small; when boiling add the egg. 317—ANCHOYY SAUCE. ^ pt. white sauce 1 tablespoonful anchovy A little cayenne sauce. Mode.—Make the white sauce, when boiling stir in quickly the anchovy, and a little cayenne, 318—CAPEE SAUCE, i pt. white sauce 1 eggcupful of capers 1 tablespoonful of the liquor or vinegar. Mode.—Make the white sauce and add the capers with the liquor and boil. 319—GENEVESE SAUCE. J lb. butter 1 tablespoonful tomato 1 tablespoonful anchovy sauce sauce 1 lemon (juice) Cayenne 1 egg. Mode.—Put the butter with the cayenne (half a salt- spoonful) and juice of the lemon into a saucepan ; when it boils add the anchovy and tomato sauce ; stir very briskly as the butter takes some time to mix smoothly with the other ingredients; beat up an egg and add just before serving. 320—TOMATO SAUCE. 12 large tomatoes 1 desertspoonful of salt A saltspoonful of cayenne. Mode.—Put the tomatoes into a saucepan, with the cayenne and salt; boil for two hours; strain through a hair sieve ; put back into the saucepan, and when boiling thicken with a little flour.Sauces. 321— MUSHEOOM SAUCE. 12 mushrooms or a tin of black ^ pt. milk English mushrooms 1 teaspoonful butter Pepper and salt. : Mode.—Wash the mushrooms well, skin, pi^ tnto a saucepan with the milk, pepper and salt, allotv them to stew for half an hour or until tender ; cut the mushrooms into small pieces, thicken with a little flour, and just before serving add the butter, 322— SAUCE EgPAGNOLE. 6 tomatoes 1 egg 2 onions Butter Cayenne and salt. Mode.—Slice the onions, put them into a saucepan with a tablespoonful of butter; when the onions are well cooked, slice the tomatoes, and add with the salt and cayenne to the onions; close the saucepan tightly, and allow to boil for half an hour. Just before serving beat the egg and add, but do not let it boil again. To be served with steak, chops, cutlets or fish 323— SAUCE PIQUANTE. ^ cupful mustard pickles 1 teaspoonful brown sugar Small cupful white sauce Little cayenne and juice of lemon. Mode.—Chop up the pickles rather small, put in the white sauce, sugar, juice of a lemon and cayenne, allow all to come to a boil; serve with cutlets or fish. 324— SAUCE TAETAEE. 1 hard boiled egg 1 lemon (juice) 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar A few pickles chopped 4 tablespoonfuls best salad 1 teaspoonful njAistard oil Black pepper and salt 1 tablespoonful cream.Sauces. Mode. -Eub the yolk of the egg the mustard and cream with a wooden spoon in a basin until quite smooth, then add a little of the oil (drop at a time), stirring all the while, then a little of the vinegar (drop at a time), until you have used all the oil and vinegar ; it should be quite smooth, and about the thickness of rich cream, great care must be taken that it does not curdle ; squeeze in the juice of the lemon, a little pepper and salt, chop up about half a cupful mustard pickles and a fresh tomato (if you have it), put these into a tureen and pour the sauce over them ; serve with fried or boiled fish. 325— PAWPAW SAUCE. 1 pawpaw Black pepper 2 tablespoonfuls Worcester ^ cupful vinegar sauce J cupful water 1 teaspoonful mustard. Mode.—Get a good sized pawpaw not quite ripe, cut into small pieces, put in the saucepan with the sauce, water and vinegar, boil for two hours ; if the pawpaw is not quite dissolved take it out and pound up until quite smooth, add the mustard and black pepper, stir the paw- paw back into the saucepan, take care there are no lumps, allow to boil again for ten minutes. When cold put into a bottle; sorve with cold meat. 326— BECHAMEL SAUCE. J pt. milk 3 or 4 leaves parsley ^ pt. water or white stock 3 cloves 1 onion A little flour Bunch sweet herbs 1 teaspoonfnl butter. Mode.—Put the stock into a saucepan with the onion, herbs, cloves, parsley and salt; allow them to simmer until well flavored with the herbs, strain, add the milk to the stock, boil up again, thicken with a little flour, then add the butter, put on one side until required. This answers the purpose of white sauce.Sauces. 327~-BEANDY SAUCE. ^ pt. water I tablespoonful of sugar 1 wineglassful of brandy Arrowroot 3 or 4 drops caramel. Mode.—Boil the water in an enamelled saucepan, mix tlie arrowroot and stir it until it thickens, then add the sugar (more if required), and brandy, color with a few drops of caramel. 328— SWEET SAUCE. J pt. of milk Essence of lemon or vanilla Cornflour Sugar. Mode.—Boil the milk, thicken with a little cornflour, flavor with a few drops of essence of lemon or vanilla, put in the sugar, stir until it is dissolved. 329— APPLE SAUCE. 6 apples 1 teaspoonful butter A little sifted sugar. Mode.—Peel and core the apples, cut them into small pieces, put into a saucepan, with about a tablespoonful of sugar (more if necessary), and a very little drop of cold water. Then boil sufficiently to pound to a pulp, and add the butter ; serve in a sauce tureen with duck, goose or pork. 330— BEEAD SAUCE. ^ pt. of milk Salt and cayenne 1 onion Butter J cupful breadcrumbs Nutmeg. Mode.—Boil the onion in the milk until tender, take it out, put in the breadcrumbs with pepper and salt, add the butter and a little nutmeg ; serve in a tureen. 331— SHEIMP SAUCE, ^ pt. shrimps J pt. white sauce.Saucer. Mode.—Pick the shrimps or small prawns (as we don't get shrimps), if too large cut in two, add to the white sauce, boil for a few seconds and serve. Juice of a lemon is an improvement. 332— LOBSTER SAUCE. J a fresh lobster or 1 tin 1 pt. of white sauce. Mode.—Shell and chop up the lobster if fresh or if tinned, add it to the white sauce, also the juice of a lemon, and a little cayenne ; boil for a few minutes. 333— OYSTEE SAUCE. 12 large oysters 1 teaspoonful chopped ^ pt. white sauce parsley A little butter. Mode.—Put the oysters with their liquor, chopped parsley and a little butter into the white sauce, and allow only just to come to a boil, or the oysters will get tough. 334—MINT SAUCE. i pt. of vinegar 2 tablespoonfuls ^chopped 1 tablespoonful sugar mint. Mode.—Boil the vinegar and sugar together, when cold pour over the mint, and serve in a tureen with lamb. 335—TORTURE SAUCE. i pt. white sauce 2 eggs Cayenne Juice of 2 lemons. Mode.—Beat up the eggs and pour into the lemon juice, stirring quickly the one way all the time, pour into the saucepan with the white sauce, add a little cayenne^ and allow it to come to a boil, then it is ready for use.Sauces. 336—LEMON SAUCE. Juice 6 lemons 6 eggs i pt. white stock. Mode.—Squeeze the lemons into a basin, add the juice to the stock, beat up the eggs well, pour into the lemon, stir quickly one way, put into a saucepan and boil, stirring all the time. 337—SAUCE FOE BOILED PUDDINaS. ^ pt. of milk 3 eggs 2 tablespoonfuls sugar Essence of lemon or vanilla. Mode.—Boil the milk, when boiling stir in the eggs, which have been well beaten, add the sugar and essence, keep stirring all the time until it boils. 338—ONION SAUCE. 2 onions Flour 1 pt. of milk Pepper and salt. Mode.—Peel the onions, cut each into eight pieces, put on to boil with the ^milk and a little water ; when the onion is cooked, thicken with a little flour, pepper and salt to taste. 339—CELEEY SAUCE. ^ pt. of milk Pepper and salt J pt. water 1 or 2 sticks celery Flour. Mode.—Chop up the celery rather small, put on in the water with half a teaspoonful salt, allow to boil until tender, strain away part of the water and add the milk, thicfken with a little flour. 340_PEINOE SAUCE. 2 ozs. butter Cayenne 1 tablespoonful of anchovy Juice of 1 lemon sauceSauces. Mode.—Melt the butter, add the anchovy sauce, a little cayenne/the juice of one lemon, allow all tp boil, stir- ring all the time. Sauce for fish. 341-GEAYY. Even in these advanced ages of cookery there are few people who make nice gravy. I, for one, may say there is no- gravy nicer than that made the old fashioned way. Indeed, Ilxave had a grear deal of experience with cooks, English, French, Colonial and Chinese ones, I am sure not more than one or two of them make nice gravy, and when they do, should you have a roast of beef, roast fowl or wild duck, all the gravies will have exactly the same flavour. The only way to remedy this is to use a little of eitirnr of the joints-for naaking your gravy. 342--GEAYY FOE EG AST BEEF. ^ lb. of beef Salt and pepper J- pt. of water. Mode.—Cut up the beef in small pieces, put on to simmer in half a pint of water with a little pepper and salt; when you take up your roast of beef pour off all the dripping, sprinkle a little flour in the baking tin, pepper and salt,\ put it over the fire for a minute, allow it to brown, then pour in the water from the beef. Allow it to boil for a minute or two, then pour through a strainer into your tureen, if not dark enough add a drop or two of caramel. 343—GEAYY FOE POULTEY, Bones from fowl or duck Pepper and salt Flour. Mode.—When you have cleaned the fowl or duck, put on in a saucepan the head, legs, pinions, and the neck (part of the giblets can be used), in about half a pint of water, when your fowl or duck is nicely cooked, take it out of the baking tin, and pour off nearly all the dripping;Sauces. dredge a little flour, pepper and salt into the tin, put it on the fire, when brown pour in the booth, stir, and allow to boil for a minute; pour into a tureen through a strainer. 344—GEAVY FOE WILD DUCK. The gravy for wild duck and any other game is made the same way ; some people like a little port wine added. 345_GEAVY FOE WALLABY. Gravv for wallaby is made the same way, adding the juice of a lemon. 346_OAEAMEL, OE BEOWNING FOE GEAVIES. 8 tablespoonfuls sugar ^ pt. water. Mode.—Put the sugar into a small saucepan and stand over a slow fire until nicely browned, but do not allow it to burn; pour on the water, and put into a bottle for use.SALADS AND DRESSINGS. 347—MAYONNAISE DEESSING. No. 1. Yolks of 2 eggs 4 tablespoonf uls of oil White of 1 egg 4 tablespoonfuls tarragon Teaspoonful raw mustard vinegar 1 tablespoonf ul condensed milk, Juice of 1 lemon. Mode.—Mix the yolks of the eggs in a basin with a wooden spoon, together with the raw mustard and con- densed milk; stir all until perfectly smooth, drop in the oil until it is the thickness of a rich cream, then drop in the vinegar until all is used, stirring the one way all the time, then add the juice of a lemon ; beat up the white of the egg to a stiff froth, stir very briskly into the dressing; allow it to stand in a cool place until ready for use. It is always as well to make a few hours before using. 348~rEENCH SALAD DEESSINQ. No. 2. 3 yolks hard-boiled eggs 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar 3 tablespoonfuls olive oil Salt and cayenne Tablespoonful of mustard. Mode.—Put the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs into a mortar with the made mustard, rub it perfectly smooth, add the salt and cayenne, then the oil drop by drop; mix with a wooden spoon; last of all add the vinegar. Be very careful that it does not curdle. 349--EUSSIAN SALAD DEESSHSTQ. No. 3. 3 tablespoonfuls olive oil 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar Pepper and salt. Mode.—Put the oil into a basin with the pepper and salt, beat up briskly with a fork, add the vinegar drop by drop, beating all the time ; shake it over nice fresh lettuce. Serve with game.Salads ar:d Dressings 350—AUSTEALIAN SALAD DEE8SING. No. 4. 4 tablespoonfuls butter 1 teaspoonful mustard 1 tablespo(?Tiful flour White pepper 1 saltspoonful salt i cup of vinegar 3 eggs. Mode.—Heat tbe butter in a saucepan until it is oily, add the flour and stir until smooth, add a little milk and let boil, then add the other ingredients, and stir until it thickens like custard; allow to get cold. This is a splendid dressing for potato salad. 351_AUSTEALIAN SALAD DEESSING . (Another Way). I wineglass of best oil 1 tablespoonful dry mustard 4 wineglasses of vinegar Salt and pepper to taste I tablespoonful sugar Teacupful milk Yolks of 2 eggs well beaten. Mode.—"Mix all these ingredients carefully together, then put in a saucepan and heat, stirring all the time ; allow to cool, then it is ready for use. 352—POTATO SALAD 1 lb. cold, boiled potatoes A few capers Dressing from No. 4 recipe 2 or 3 slices of beetroot 2 hard-boiled eggs. Mode.—Slice the potatoes very thinly into a salad bowl or glass dish, pour over sufficient dressing to moisten, then garnish with the hard-boiled eggs (chopped up), the beetroot cut in slices, and a few capers. 353—LETTUCE SALAD. I nice large crisp lettuce Dressing from No. 2 recipe Garnish with hard-boiled egg. Mode.—Break the lettuce into pieces and pour over it the dressing made from No. 2 recipe ; garnish with hard- boiled egg, (or with No. 3 dressing for serving with game).Salads and Dressings. ,354~HA.RICOT BEANS SALAD. 1 pt. eold, boiled haricot beans Dressing No. 3 recipe Garnishing. If you have any haricot beans left never throw them away as they make an excellent salad. Mode.—Put them in a glass dish, pour over dressing from No. 3 recipe, garnish with a little lettuce, hard- boiled eggs, etc. 355—BEETROOT. 2 small beetroots Salt Vinegar and a little oil. Mode.—Boil the beetroots in salt and water for about two hours, or until quite tender ; take out, and when cold skin them.; slice them rather thinly, put in a glass dish, pour over a little vinegar and oil; allow to stand an hour before using. 056-CUCUMBEE SALAD. 1 nice medium cucumber Oil and vinegar Salt 1 onion Mode.—Slice the cucumber, sprinkle freely with salt, put in a soup plate tilted on one side to drain, allow to stand half an hour, pour off all the water, put a little pepper over it; slice a small onion, then pour over the vinegar in which a little oil has been mixed. 357—COLD VEGETABLE SALAD, Remains of any cold vegetables Dressing from No. 3 recipe Mode.—Cold cabbage, peas, cauliflour and potatoes ; mix altogether, pour over some dressing from No. 3 recipe.Salads and Dressings. 858—CAULIFLOUK SALAD. 1 cauliflour 4 wineglassfals of vinegar Dessertspoonful of oil 1 teaspoonful of mustard I saltspoonful salt White pepper 1 tablespoonf111 sugar. Mode.—Boil the cauliflour, place it in a basin or salad bowl, when a little cool pour over it the ingredients (which should be already mixed).VEGETABLES. 359—EOAST POTATOES. Potatoes Pepper and salt Dripping. Mode.—Put the potatoes after you have peeled them in a baking tin, with a little dripping ; sprinkle with a little pepper and salt; put them into a hot oven and roast for half or three-quarters of an hour. 360~BOILED POTATOES. Potatoes Salt Water. Mode.—Peel and wash as many potatoes as you require; put them into a saucepan wdth sufficient cold water to cover them, and a little salt; put them on the fire and allow them to boil for twenty minutes ; try them with a fork, and if done, strain away all the water; put a clean towel in the saucepan and cover closely with the lid ; stand beside the fire until required. p 361—BAKED POTATOES (in jackets). Mode.—Wash as many potatoes as you require ; dry them and put them in a moderate oven and bake until soft; try them by squeezing them ; serve at once very hot. 362—POTATO SNOW. Mode.— Boil as many potatoes as you require and squeeze them through a patent masher, putting a little butter, salt and pepper in with the potatoes before you press them through. Serve hot. 36;^CHIP POTATOES. Mode.—Peel about four new potatoes, slice them very thinly, dry them in a clean towel, then drop them singlyFeactables. into boiling dripping; keep them separate with a fork; when a nice golden brown take them out and place in a colander to drain off the fat. If you have a frying basket it is best, as it saves a lot of time and trouble. 364-FEIED POTATOES. Mode.—Slice some cold boiled potatoes ; put them into a pan with a little dripping, sprinkle a little pepper and salt on them, keep shaking the pan so as not to let them burn ; when they are nicely browned pour off all the surplus fat and turn into a vegetable dish and serve. 365— POTATO SAUTE. Cold boiled potatoes Pepper and salt Chopped parsley Dripping. Mode.—Put the dripping into a pan ; chop up the potatoes into small thin pieces ; when the dripping is bubbling put in the potatoes ; keep turning them over until they are all equally browned ; chop up the parsley very fine and mix with the potatoes. Serve at once in a hot dish. 366— POTATO CAKE. 1 lb. potatoes 3 eggs 4 ozs. butter J lb. flour Salt. Mode.—Take freshly-boiled potatoes and mash them; add the butter and eggs (well beaten), then the flour; mix altogether with a fork, roll out into thin cakes and bake in a quick oven. It is best not to handle the pota- toes, but always use a fork ; a little sugar maj be added if required sweet. 367—BAKED ONIONS. Onions Pepper and salt DrippingVegetables. Mode.—Peel and wash as many onions as are re- quired ; place them in a baking tin, sprinkle a little salt, then put some dripping over them; bake in a moderate oven for one hour and a-half to two hours. 368—BOILED ONIONS. Onions Water Salt White sauce Mode.—Peel and wash the onions ; to every pound of onions allow a teaspoonful of salt, put them into a sauce- pan and cover with cold w^ater; allow to boil until quite tender, and serve with white sauce. Some onions take longer to boil than others, according to the size, so it is always wise to try them with a fork before taking them up. 369—STUFFED ONIONS. 1 lb. large onion Pepper and salt J lb. cold beef (minced) Butter Mode.—Peel the onion, and with a sharp knife scoop out the centre without cutting through the bottom of the onion; mince the beef, season with pepper and salt; fill up the hole in the onion wdth the minced beef ; on top of each one put a good-sized piece of butter ; put them in a smart oven and bake for one hour. The onion you have cut out of the centre need not be wasted as you can use it next day, or for the next meal for onion soup, onion sauce or fried onions. 370—FEIED ONIONS. 4 good sized onions Pepper and salt Dripping. Mode.—Peel and slice the onions, sprinkle them with pepper and salt; have your pan ready with plenty of boiling dripping; put the onions into a frying basket,Vegetables. place the basket in tlie pan, keep sliaking it and allow them to fry for twenty minutes ; take the basket with the onions out and stand it on a soup plate ; either stand it in the oven or in front of the fire until all the fat has drained out. If 3^ou have not a frying basket do not use so much dripping, and pour it off before serving. 371—STEWED ONIONS. 4 onions 1 teaspoonful beef extract J pt. water Butter and flour. Mode.—Peel and cut the onions into about eight pieces each ; put them into a saucepan with the water and a little salt ; allow them to simmer slowly until the onions are cooked, then put in the extract of beef ; thicken with a little flour and butter. 372— TO BOIL CABBAGE. Cabbage Salt Boiling water Sode Mode.—Wash the cabbage and take away the out- side leaves; cut it into four pieces, remove the stalks ; have ready a saucepan of boiling water, into which put a teaspoonful of salt and a pinch of carbonate of soda; put the cabbage in and allow it to boil without the lid for twenty minutes; strain in a colander ; chop up the cabbage and sprinkle a little pepper over it. Serve very hot. 373— BAKED TOMATOES. Tomatoes Pepper and salt Butter. Mode.—Wash and dry the tomatoes ; just cut away a small piece of skin on top ; place them in a buttered tin ; sprinkle each with a little pepper and salt, and place a piece of butter on each tomato ; bake in a sharp oven for twenty minutes.Vegetables. 374_BOILED TOMATOES. Tomatoes Pepper and salt. Mode.—Cut the tomatoes in half and place in a sauce- pan with a little pepper and salt, and boil for twenty minutes, keeping the saucepan tightly closed all the time ; shake it occasionally to keep it from burning. 375—STUFFED TOMATOES. 6 large tomatoes Butter i an onion Pepper and salt j- lb. minced beef. Mode.—Get nice large tomatoes and scoop out the inside, being careful not to break the skin ; mince some cold beef and a piece of onion with it; season with pepper and salt; stu:ff the tomatoes with this ; put a piece of butter on the top of each tomato ; place in a baking tin for three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. The tomato that you have taken out of the centre you can use either for sauce, soup, souffle or savoury. 376—TOMATO SOUFFLE. 4 tomatoes Butter Yolk of 1 egg Cayenne Whites of 2 eggs Salt to taste Mode.—Pour boiling water over the tomatoes so that you can peel them easily; put them into a sieve and rub through as much as you can, then beat this up with the yolk of one egg ; cayenne and salt to taste ; then beat up the whites to a stiff froth, and mix all well together. If you have souffle cases fill each and sprinkle over them some breadcrumbs ; put a piece of butter on top of each and bake for twenty minutes. A little minced ham or tongue is very nice mixed with this.Vegetables. 377~TO BOIL GREEN PEAS. Peas Boiling water Salt Mint 1 tablespoonful of sugar. Mode.—Have the water boiling, put in a sprig of mint, a teaspoonful of salt and the sugar ; to every pint of peas add a pinch of carbonate of soda ; allow them to boil for twenty minutes. Do not cover the saucepan after you have put the peas in. 378—FEENCH BEANS. French beans Salt Boiling water. Great care must be taken in cutting and stringing French beans ; no matter how young they are, there is sure to be a certain amount of string on them ; I find the best way is to cut (with a very sharp knife) off the tops and right down the sides, then you can be sure all the string is off; then cut the beans in as small pieces as you may require. Mode.—Have the water boiling, and to each pint of water add a teaspoonful of salt and a pinch of carbonate of soda; put in the beans and allow them to boil for twenty minutes. Serve very hot. 379_BAKED PAWPAW. 1 pawpaw Dripping Salt and pepper. Mode.—The pawpaw can be used as a vegetable as well as a fruit. Get a pawpaw that is just turning ripe, cut it into quarters, then cut each quarter again, but do not peel it; put it into a baking tin, sprinkle well with salt and pepper; put some dripping in the tin ; bake in a very hot oven for twenty minures.Vegetables. 380—BOILED PAWPAW. Mode,—Get some green pawpaws, put them into a saucepan of boiling water without either peeling or cutting them at all; put about a tablespoonf ul of salt in the water and boil them for half an hour or until tender ; place them in a dish, cut them in half and put a large piece of butter in each piece, sprinkle with pepper and salt and serve very hot. 381—PAWPAW PIE. Pawpaw 1 lemon (the juice) 1 apple Cloves 1 tablespoonful of sugar. Mode.—Slice the pawpaw the same as you would an apple, put it into a pie-dish with the sugar, juice of the lemon and an apple (sliced); allow it to cook for half an hour, then cover with a nice pu:ff paste and bake in a smart oven for half an hour. 382-BEINaHALL (OE EGQ FEUIT). The bringhall is one of the most delicious vegetables we have, but is seldom used ; it makes a splendid break- fast dish sliced and grilled. Slice it about half an inch in thickness, place on a grill over a clear fire ; when nicely browned lay it on hot pieces of buttered toast and sprinkle with pepper and salt. 383—BAKED BEINGHALL. Bake a bringhall exactly the same as you do a potato and serve with roast meat of any kind. 384—BEINGHALLS STUFFED. Bringhalls Onion Cold beef Butter Salt and pepper.VegetaMes. Mode.—Scoop out the centre of a' bringliall, mince the beef and a little onion, season weir with pepper and salt, stuff the bringhall with it; place a piece of butter on the top of each one and bake for twenty-five minutes or half an hour. 385—EADISHES IN WHITE SAUCE. 1 bunch radishes ^ pt. white sauce 2 or 3 carrots Parsley. Mode.—Scrape the radishes, cut them in rather thick slices, and boil in salted water until tender ; strain the water off, and have ready some nicely made and well seasoned white sauce, into which put the radishes; make thoroughly hot again; cut two or three well colored and * cooked carrots into nice shapes or round slices; pile the radishes on a hot dish and garnish with the carrots and chopped parsley. To be served as a vegetable entree, or with roast meat. 386—PAESNIP CROQUETS. 1 lb. parsnips ^ lb. breadcrumbs 1 oz. butter 1 lemon Pepper 2 eggs Parsley Salt Teaspoonful grated cheese. Mode.— Boil the parsnips in salted water until soft then press through a vegetable masher or sieve, or mash with a fork until smooth ; mix with the breadcrumbs, butter, cheese, seasoning of pepper, salt, finely chopped parsley, grated lemon rind ; add the yolks of the eggs and a little milk if necessary; when thoroughly mixed roll into small balls, dip in flour, then in the beaten whites of the eggs, and roll in breadcrumbs ; plunge into a quantity of boiling fat and fry a nice golden brown; drain on a paper for a moment, arrange on a hot dish ; garnish with cut lemon and parsley.Vegetables. 387— CUEEIED VEGETABLES. 3 carrots 2 table spoonfuls curry 1 apple powder 5 or 6 potatoes 1 tablespoonful flour 1 onion 1 oz. butter I turnip 1 pt. stock Salt i ]b. boiled rice Mode.—Clean and peel the vegetables and apples, cut all into large dice ; braize the carrots in the butter for ten minutes in a stewpan ; then add the other vegetables, the apple and a pinch of salt; brown these and sprinkle in the flour and curry powder and braize for ten minutes longer ; then add the stock and let all simmer until the vegetables are well cooked ; dish the vegetables neatly on a dish; place the boiled rice round as a border. If tomatoes are in season, one or two added to the curry will be found an improvement. 388— BEAIZED YEGETABLES. Fresh vegetables Boiled macaroni 1 oz. butter 1 pt. gravy Parsley sauce Pepper and salt. Mode.—Out up the vegetables and fry in the butter until brown ; drain well; place a layer of the macaroni in a buttered pie-dish ; then a layer of vegetables, and so on till the dish is full; season each layer with pepper and salt, pour in the gravy ; cover the pie-dish with a plate or another dish ; place in a moderate oven and cook for one hour and a-half ; put a little butter on the top and brown quickly; serve hot with parsley sauce. 389— BAKED CAULIFLOUP. 1 large cauliflour 1 oz. breadcrumbs 1 oz. butter Milk. Mode—Wash the cauliflour carefully and let it soak head downwards in a bowl of water until ready to cook ;Vegetables. pluiig-e into a saucepan of boiling water and boil gently for fifteen or twenty minutes; drain well; separate the branches and arrange them in a buttered pie-dish; add sufficient hot milk to prevent the cauliflour from burning ; sprinkle over about an ounce of browned and dried bread- crumbs ; cover with tiny pieces of butter and bake ten or fifteen minutes ; serve in the pie-dish. This is a very nutritious dish for children. 390_CELERY A L'lTALlENNE. 2 heads celery Milk Thick brown sauce 3 ozs. grated cheese 1 oz. butter Breadcrumbs. Mode.—Well wash and clean the celery and cut in lengths that will fit into a pie-dish, stew in milk or water until quite soft i stain and place a layer in the bottom of a buttered pie-dish ; have ready some thick brown sauce, then sprinkle over some grated cheese ; continue this until the dish is full, keeping plenty of cheese for the top ; lay little pieces of butter over the cheese and a sprinkling of breadcrumbs; bake a nice brown and serve very hot. 391- CELERY FEITTEES. 1 head celery Butter 1 lemon Parsley Boiling dripping 2 eggs ^ a cupful milk J lb. flour. Mode.—Wash the celery well and cut in two-inch lengths; make a batter of the yolks of two eggs, half a cupful of milk or water, and a quarter of a pound of flour ; let the batter stand for one hour or more before using ; the whites of the eggs beaten up to a very sti:ff froth and added just before using is a great improvement to frying batter. Boil the celery in salted water till soft, drain well, drop into the batter ; have ready a quantity ofVegetables. boiling dripping, drop the celery in from a spoon ; fry a golden brown and drain a moment on paper. Dish neatly, garnished with fried parsley and slices of lemon. 392—PUMPKIN TOPS. Pumpkin tops Salt Carbonate of soda Pepper Buttered toast Butter and poached eggs. Mode.—Pluck a large q^uantity of the shoots of a pumpkin vine ; wash well and boil in salted water, to which a pinch of soda has been added ; when soft strain thoroughly and press in a colander, then return it to the saucepan and add a little piece of butter and seasoning of pepper; have ready some buttered toast cut in squares and place in a vegetable dish. Just before the pumpkin tops are ready to strain, poach some eggs nicely; and when the greens are placed neatly on the buttered toast, arrange the poached eggs on top and serve. 393—FEIED CHOKO. 1 or 2 chokos Breadcrumbs 1 egg Frying fat. Mode.—Peel and boil the chokos in salted water; when just soft enough to cut, take out and cut in slices ; dip in egg, and then roll in breadcrumbs and fry in boiling fat; drain on kitchen paper.for a minute, pile high on a hot vegetable dish; garnish with fresh or fried parsley and serve. 394_POTATO PUFF. Cooked potatoes J cupful of milk 2 eggs Pepper 1 oz. butter Salt. Mode.—Mash the potatoes (hot or cold ones may be used), add the milk, butter and the beaten yolks of the eggs, season with pepper and salt; have ready a butteredVegetables. pie-disli; beat tlie whites of the eggs to a stiff froth ; stir quickly and liglitly with the potatoes, heap in a pie-dish; bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes and serve at once. 395_POTATO AU FEOMAGE. 5 or 6 boiled potatoes 1 tablespoonful chopped 3 ozs. grated cheese parsley 1 tablespoonful butter Pepper 1 tablespoonful milk Salt 1 egg. Mode.—Mash the potatoes smoothly ; put the butter, milk, pepper and salt in a saucepan, and when hot stir in the potatoes ; mix thoroughly and again make quite hot; drop the egg in while stirring. Butter a pie-dish, put in it a thick layer of potatoes, sprinkle these well with cheese and chopped parsley, scatter little pieces of butter over, then another layer of potatoes, and so on until the dish is full, keeping plenty of cheese to cover the top ; then add more butter; put in a hot oven until it is quite hot, and the cheese melted; garnish with chopped parsley and serve very hot. 396—POTATO GEMS. 4 cold potatoes 1J ozs. butter 2 oz. flour 1 tablespoonful milk Cayenne 1 egg Salt Parsley. Mode.—Rub the potatoes through the sieve ; put the butter in a saucepan; when dissolved stir in the flour, cook for a minute without browning ; add the milk; stir (off the fire) till it thickens ; add seasoning (pepper and salt), and then stir in the potatoes and drop in the egg; blend thoroughly and make very hot. Have ready some boiling fat, drop in rough pieces of the mixture, and when a nice brown taTie out; drain on paper for a minute ; pile high on a hot dish, and garnish with parsley.Vegetables 397_BEETEOOT IN SAUCE. 1 or 2 "beetroots Buttered toast ^ pt. white sauce. Mode.—Boil the beetroot very carefully to prevent the skin breaking and the coloring escaping; while it is cooking make a nice white sauce (about half a pint will be sufficient). Peel and slice the beetroot, place it in the sauce till it becomes a delicate pink color; turn on to buttered toast in a hot entree dish and serve hot. 398— BAKED TOMATOES, 4 or 5 tomatoes Toast Pepper Butter Salt Sugar Mustard Parsley. Mode.—Select firm tomatoes, cut them in half; butter a pie-dish and place the tomatoes in carefully (the cut side up); bake from ten to twent}^ minutes, according to the size of the tomatoes ; mix about half a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, with some dissolved butter in a cup ; add pepper, salt and a pinch of sugar ; place a spoonful of this mixture in each half tomato when they are half-cooked. Have ready some rounds or squares of buttered toast, place half a tomato on each; garnish with chopped parsley and serve ver}^ hot. 399— BAKED CUCUMBER. 2 large cucumbers ^ lb. mincemeat 2 slices bacon Salt and black pepper 1 teaspoonful parsley chopped fine. Mode.—Cut the cucumbers each into four pieces (do not peel them); scoop out the centre of each, taking pre- caution that you do not go right through each piece ; chop up the bacon and mix with the mincemeat (which is best made with fresh meat), chopped parsley, salt and pepper; then fill each piece of the cucumber with it; put a good LVegetables. sized piece of butter on each; place in a moderate oven and bake for three-quarters of an hour. Do not waste the cucumber you have cut out, it will make sauce or sandwiches. 400_GEEEN BANANAS AS A VEGETABLE. 6 bananas I- a pt of milk 1 tablespoonful of butter 1 teaspoonful of salt ^ a teaspoonful of pepper. Mode.—Peel and cut the bananas in two, place in a saucepan with the milk, salt and pepper and simmer gently for half an hour ; then thicken with flour and add the butter; serve up with toast. The bananas can be boiled in water and white sauce poured over them. 40i_CUEEIED BANANAS. 6 green bananas J a pt. of milk 7} a cupful of dessicated cocoa- 2 tablespoonfuls of curry nut powder A little cayenne and salt 1 teaspoonful of Worces- 1 teaspoonful of anchovy tershire sauce sauce 1 egg. Mode.—Put in a basin the cocoanut, and pour over it the milk, and allow it to stand one hour ; then put it into a saucepan with the other ingredients. Peel and sliee the bananas and add to the curry; allow it to simmer for ten to fifteen minutes, and just before serving beat up the egg and stir in ; serve with boiled rice. 402—SAUEE KEAUT. 1 large white cabbage J lb. salt Cold water. Mode.—Cut the cabbage up very finely, as you would for pickled cabbage ; put it into a very clean wooden tub ; sprinkle the salt over and cover with cold water ; put a weight on the cabbage to keep it under the water; tie the tub down with a cloth and allow the contents to ferment.Vegetables. 403—SAUEE KEAUT (to serve). (Some people like it cold, just as you take it from the jar; but as far as my experience goes, most people prefer it made from the following recipe :— 1 lb. brisket 4 cloves 2 pieces of ginger 1 teaspoonful black pepper ^ pt. vinegar and water. Mode.—Out the beef into pieces an inch square, put it into a saucepan with the other ingredients and allow all to simmer for three hours ; about half an hour before it is required add about half a pound of the sauer kraut, well squeezed out of the pickle. If wanted in a hurry, put the half pound of sauer kraut into a saucepan with the vinegar, ginger, cloves and pepper ; add some slices of cold corned beef, and boil for half an hour. Very good sauer kraut may be bought in small kegs and tins.ROAST AND BOILED JOINTS. 404— HOW TO BOIL BEEF. Some people think that, to boil beef, they have only to put it in a saucepan and let it boil, but such is not the case. If you want the beef to be nice acd tender you must be careful about the boiling. If you put it in cold water it loses the nutritious constituency ; for soup, of course, it is put into cold water, but for boiled beef, certainly put it into boiling water. When a piece of beef is plunged into boiling water the albumen which is near the surface immediately coagulates, forming an envelope which prevents the escape of the internal juice and excludes the water. Many writers on cooking assert that boiling beef slowly makes it white, but it is not nearly so nice as a piece of beef boiled quickly ; the wholesomeness of the food is, however, a matter of greater moment than ap- pearance. When the water is boiling, put in the beef, and watch until it boils again, then remove the scum, as it rises, very carefully, keep the water boiling all the time Ctwenty minutes is allowed for each pound of beef), and remember that boiled beef, as well as roast, cannot be served too hot. Should the joint not be required until cold, allow it to cool in its liquor. 405— BOILED EOUND BEEF. Beef and Water. As a whole round of beef is too large for small families, we here give a recipe for ten or twelve pounds. Mode.—Put ten or twelve pounds of the silver side in salt and allow it to remain about three or four days, skewer it up and tie round with tape to keep it in its place, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, set it on a good fire, and whenRoast and Boiled Joints^ it begins to boil remove carefully all the scum from the surface, or when it is sent to the table the joint will be a bad color. When it is well skimmed draw the pot to the corner of the fire and allow it to simmer gently until done, which will take about three hours. Kemove the tape and skewers, pour over a little of the liquor and garnish with carrots and turnips. The liquor should be kept for pea soup. 406—EOAST EIBS OF BEER 8 lbs. of beef Dripping Salt and pepper. Mode.—If you wish you can cut out the bones and roll it, others prefer if cooked just as it is. Place the joint in a baking tin, then rub it all over with flour ; put it into a nice hot oven, baste it as often as you can (in this colony we do not go in for the roasting before the fire as they do in England), allow it to bake for one and a-half hours. Take it up, and when it is dished up sprinkle a little salt over it (this should not be done until the joint is dished as it draws the gravy from the meat). Pour away the dripping from the tin, put in a little salt, pepper and a little water, allow it to dimmer, then strain over the beef. 407—EOAST SIELOIN OF BEEF. 10 lbs. sirloin Flour Salt Dripping Mode.—Place the sirloin in the baking tin, rub it well over with flour, put on a little dripping (not so much dripping is required for a sirloin as ribs, as there is more fat about it); put into a nice hot oven, baste as often as you can, allow it to bake for one hour and a-half (beef should not be too well cooked). Pour away the dripping from the baking tin. sprinkle a little salt and pepper in, and about half a cupful of water, allow it to remain in theUoast and Boiled Joints. oven until the water simmers, and pour over the beef through a strainer. When the beef is dished up sprinkle a little over it. 408—LAEDED FILLETS OF BEEF. 4 lbs. fillets of beef J lb. bacon Pepper, salt and dripping. Mode.—Get a nice piece of the fillet, cut the bacon (which should be as fat as possible) into strips of four inches long and a quarter of an inch thick, run them through and through the beef with a larding needle, place it in a baking tin, dredge it over with a little flour, put some dripping on and place in a hot oven, baste it as often as you can, bake for one hour, dish it up and sprinkle a little salt over it; pour the fat away from the tin, dredge in a little flour, put it over the fire to brown, then put in pepper and salt to taste, and a half a cupful of boiling water, allow it to simmer and strain over the beef. 409—EOAST BEEAST OF VEAL. 5 lbs breast of veal Pepper and salt 1 lemon Flour. Mode.—Place the veal in a baking tin, dredge it over with flour, put about four tablespoonfuls of dripping with it and put it in a hot oven, allow it to bake for one hour and a half, basting it as often as you can. Dish up, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over it and make the gravy ; serve with it slices of lemon. 410_EOAST FILLET OF YEAL 8 lbs. fillet of veal 1 teaspoonful minced 2 ozs. ham parsley J lemon Breadcrumbs Salt and cayenne 2 eggs A little suet.Boast and Boiled Joints. Mode.—Take away the bone and ^ivM. with the follow- ing forcemeat:—Mince the ham and suet very finely and add it to the juice of the lemon, parsley, breadcrumbs, salt, cayenne and two eggs, mix altogether well with flour, place in a baking tin with some dripping (if you have some bacon rind put it over the veal), place it in a rather moderate oven, bake slowly at first, then make the oven hot and bake briskly the last half hour, so as to make it nice and brown ; serve with gravy, garnish with slices of lemon. Ham or bacon can be served with this. 411—EOAST LOIN OF VEAL. 9 lbs. loin of veal 1 lemon Forcemeat Melted butter. Mode.—Turn the flap of the veal under the kidney fat, place it in a baking tin, flour it well, put a little dripping over it, place it in a moderate oven and baste it as often as you can for one and a-half hours. Make some forcemeat balls from the preceding recipe, not larger than pigeons egg, put these in the baking dish with the veal, then make your oven hotter and bake for another hour. Dish the veal up, sprinkle a little salt over, garnish the dish with forcemeat balls and slices of lemon. Serve melted butter or gravy with it. 412_STUFFED SHOULDEE OF MUTTON. 1 shoulder of mutton Pepper and salt i lb. minced veal A few sweet herbs Breadcrumbs Chopped parsley 1 egg. Mode.—Bone the shoulder of mutton and stuff with the mincemeat, breadcrumbs, etc., tie round securely, put it into a baking tin with some dripping and bake for one hour ; this is the best way of using a shoulder of mutton as there is very little waste. The bone can be chopped up and put in a saucepan with half a pint of water and a little salt and used for the gravy.Boast and Boiled Joints. 413—BOILED SHOULDER OF MUTTON AND OYSTER SAUCE. Shoulder of mutton 6 doz. oysters 1 onion Breadcrumbs. Mode.—Take out the bone of a shoulder of mutton ; sprinkle the meat with salt; make a stuffing of breadcrumbs and oysters, a little chopped parsley, and pepper and salt; istufi the shoulder where you have taken out the bone, tie it up, put it in a stew-pan with the onion, which has been pre- viously chopped up, and some parsley ; put sufficient water to cover it and allow it to boil slowly for an hour and a-half. Take up the mutton and drain it, put it on a hot dish and cover with oyster sauce. The liquor that the mutton was boiled in would make good soup with a little Liebig and vegetables. 414—ROAST LEO PORK. Mode.—A leg of pork weighing seven pounds will take two hours. The skin should be scored across in narrow stripes, either before it is put in the oven or half an hour after. A stuffing of sage and onions chopped may be put in at the knuckle. 415—TO BOIL A HAM. 1 pineapple ham Grated cinnamon Breadcrumbs. Mode.—Seak the ham for two hours in cold water, then place in the boiler with sufficient cold water to cover it; the water to be brought to a boil and then removed off the fire so that the ham only simmers. Of course the length of time to be gaged by the weight of the ham. Afterwards the ham may be dressed in any way de- sired, either with breadcrumbs or grated cinnamon and placed in the oven and lightly browned. It spoils a ham to cut it when hot, it should always be left until thoroughly cold. I mention pineapple hams as I find they are the best to be had in Australia.GAME. '416—EOAST WILD DUCK. Mode.—Pluck the duck nicely (do not on any account scald it or you will spoil the flavour), singe and wash it, and dry with a clean towel. Rub it over with a little flour, cover with a buttered paper and bake in a moderate oven. This may be stuffed with ordinary stuffing if pre- ferred. It is rather an improvement to squeeze a lemon over it before baking it. Serve either with salad or slices of lemon and port wine sauce. 417—EOAST WILD GOOSE (Larded.) 1 wild goose 2 ozs. fat bacon Cayenne Lemon. Mode.—Wash the goose well, have the larding needle threaded with very fine strips of bacon fat about three inches long and a quarter of an inch thick, run the needle through the breast, it will draw the fat through with it, keep on until you have used all the bacon fat. Eub the goose over with flour then squeeze a lemon over it and sprinkle a little cayenne, lay on it a buttered paper and bake in a quick oven. This may be stuffed the same as a tame goose if preferred. Serve salad with this also. (See Eussian salad). 418—EOAST WILD TUEKEY (Liver stufling). 1 wild turkey 1 onion 2 ozs. bacon Cayenne and salt. Mode.—Wash and truss the turkey, flour it over (and lard if you wish, the same as a goose), pepper and salt. To make the stufling, chop up the liver with the bacon (which is best fat), half a cupful of breadcrumbs, yolk of one egg, pepper and salt and a little lemon juice. When the turkey is stu:ffed, bake in a fast oven. Serve with bread sauce.Game. 419—EOAST TEAL. Mode.—Teal is a small duck, cook it the same way, only without stuffing ; it is a great improvement to put pieces of the rind of bacon over them while baking, as the bacon fat penetrates the flesh and moistens it as well as gives it a nice flavor. Cut down the back in two, and serve on toast with slices of lemon. 420—ROAST PIOMY GOOSE (Oyster stuffing). Mode.—The pigmy goose is a very small bird, but without doubt one of the sweetest of the Australian birds, and rather rare. Wash inside and out, prepare for stuffing. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, and rub a little flour over them. Stuffing—Allow about six oysters to each bird, soak the bread in a little milk, squeeze it out on to a plate, put in a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, the yolk of one egg and a teaspoonful of butter, divide it equally for as many birds as you have, and to each part add six oysters, pepper and salt. When the birds are stuffed, lay them on a baking dish and cover with buttered paper, bake in a quick oven. Serve on toast. 421—ROAST WALLABY. Most people, even Australians, are prejudiced against the wallaby, after all they are one of Australia's natural food, and feed just the same as a hare, in fact I have often served it for hare and no one has been any the wiser. Mode.—Get a nice young wallaby; and skin it as soon as possible after it is shot, wash it in a little vinegar and water, then stuff it with a nice highly seasoned stuffing, pepper and salt it, and bake in a quick oven. Make a gravy of the water you have boiled some of the bones in and a little port wine.Game, 422— SALME OF WILD DUCK. Remains of cold duck 1 onion 6 cloves Butter I lemon Wineglass of claret Flour. Mode.—Slice and cut the onion very fine, put it in the saucepan with a little butter, allow it to cook until a nice brown, then add the duck (cut into small pieces), and a quarter of a lemon cut in slices, add the cloves, claret and juice of half a lemon, cover with brown gravy if you have it, if not, brown a little flour and add the water to that, and pour over the duck, with a little cayenne, allow it to simmer for an hour. Serve with slices of lemon. 423— SALME OF WILD GOOSE. The same as wild duck, with the addition of a little chopped ham 424—EOAST WILD DUCK. 1 wild duck Juice of J a lemon Butter Salt and flour Cayenne. Mode.—Wash and dress the duck, squeeze a lemon over it, then sprinkle with a little salt and cayenne, rub it over with flour, butter a paper and cover it, bake in a fast oven. Russian salad is nice served with wild duck. 425—RAGOUT OF TURKEY (Wild). Remains of cold wild turkey Bunch of sweet herbs 1 onion 2 carrots 2 turnips Pepper and salt to taste Glass of port wine. Mode.—Cut up the carrots, turnips and onioU; put on in about half a pint of cold water, with the pepper and salt and the port wine ; allow to boil for half an hour, put in the turkey cut into convenient slices, with the herbsGame. (tied together), and allow to simmer for an hour and a half. Thicken with a little browned flour and add a tablespoonful of tomato sauce. 426—JUGGED WALLABY. 1 small wallaby Butter 2 onions Bunch of sweet herbs Black pepper Cloves 1 tablespoonful red currant 2 glasses of port wine jelly 1 lemon. Mode.—Cut the wallaby into nice sized pieces, flour and fry them in a little butter until nice and brown, put them in a jar with the herbs (tied together), the onions sliced, and the cloves (about a dozen), half a teaspoonful black pepper and a teaspoonful of salt, cover with water, slice half the lemon and add the juice of the other half, put the jar in a saucepan of water, keep it closed very tightly and allow it to cook for four hours ; be sure you keep the saucepan full of boiling water. Melt the jelly, add to the port wine, and about half an hour before serving put it in the jar, thicken with a little browned flour. Serve with red currant jelly. 427—JUGGED HAEE. Hare may be jugged the same as wallaby, only most people prefer a hare a little high, then it is better to add more port wine ; instead of two glasses add have a pint, and a wineglassful of mushroom ketchup. Serve with red currant jelly. 428—EOAST HAEE. 1 hare ^ lb. mincemeat I- a lemon Butter ^ lb. breadcrumbs 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley Salt and pepper.Game. Mode.—Wash and trim the hare nicely, then make a nice stuffing of the forcemeat and breadcrumbs, chop up the liver and add, also squeeze the juice of the lemon and mix in the chopped parsley, season well with salt and pepper. Stuff the hare, place it in a baking dish, rub it over with a little flour, pepper and salt, and plenty of dripping; bake for an hour to an hour and a half, keep basting as often as possible. 429—EABBIT PIE. 1 rabbit i an onion stuck with h a lemon cloves Hard boiled eggs A little ham. Mode.—Cut the rabbit into convenient sized pieces, put on in a saucepan with the onion and half the lemon cut into slices, pepper and salt, and a pint of water or stock, allow it to boil for an hour; put it into the pie-dish with three or four slices of ham, the hard boiled eggs, each cut in four on top (leave out the onion); cover with a nice short paste and bake for twenty minutes, 430—EOAST EABBIT. Same as the hare, only cover with a buttered paper and bake for about forty minutes, Serve with red currant jelly. 431—STEWED EABBIT. 1 rabbit 1 onion Bunch sweet herbs Salt and pepper Juice of half a lemon Wineglass of claret Slices of bacon 1 tablespoonful ketchup. Mode.—Cut up the rabbit, put it into a saucepan with the onion thinly sliced, and the herbs (tied together) in a pint of water, salt, half a teaspoonful black pepper, and the juice of half a lemon ; allow it to stew for an hour, take out the herbs. Cut about two ounces ofGame. bacon (lean), put it in the saucepan with the claret, allow it to stew for an hour ; thicken with browned flour, if not dark enough add a few drops caramel, and the ketchup. 432—ROAST PIGEONS AND OYSTER STUFFING. 4 pigeons Butter Pepper and salt A cupful of breadcrumbs 3 doz oysters. Mode.—Wash and truss the pigeons, rub them over with a little flour; moisten the breadcrumbs with the liquor of the oysters and a tablespoonful of butter, pepper and salt, add the oysters, divide the stuffing into four and stuff each bird, allowing six or eight oysters to each bird ; cover with buttered paper and bake. Make a little frill of white paper and put on each leg of the pigeons. Serve very hot. 433—JUGGED PIGEONS. 4 pigeons 1 oz. of suet \ cupful of breadcrumbs \ lemon 2 hard boiled eggs A tablespoonful chopped Pepper and salt and a little parsley nutmeg Butter I egg 6 peppercorns. Mode.—Pluck and wash the pigeons (try ana get young ones), then make a stuffing of the livers chopped very finely, mix them with the breadcrumbs, lemon, chopped parsley and suet, rub the yolks of two hard boiled eggs through a sieve, season with black pepper, salt and a little grated nutmeg, moisten it all with an egg and a tablespoonful of butter ; fill the crops of the pigeons with the mixture and tie them securely. Brown the birds in a frying pan with a little hot fat, sprinkle with pepper and salt, put them into an earthenware pot with a small bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, half a dozen pepper corns, a few cloves, a glass of claret, and a pin^ of stock or water, a little celery if you have it; cover the jar with a lid, putGame it into a saucepan of boiling water, which must be kept full and boiling until the pigeons are done. Allow them to remain for two hours in the boiling water, take out the pigeons, strain the gravy, put it into a saucepan for about five minutes and thicken with browned flour ; pour the gravy over the pigeons and serve with slices of lemon. 434—PIGEON PIE, 4 pigeons 1 lb. gravy beef Pepper and salt 4 hard boiled eggs Puff paste. Mode.—Cut each pigeon into four, place them in a saucepan with the gravy beef (cut into rather small pieces), pepper and salt, allow them to stew for about half an hour, take out the pigeons and strain the gravy. Put the pigeons in a pie-dish with two or three slices of ham, pepper and salt. Cut up the eggs, pour over the gravy, cover with a nice puff paste and bake for twenty minutes. 435— BEAIZED PIGEONS, 4 pigeons Breadcrumbs Pe]3per and salt Butter. Mode.—Get very young birds, cut them in half, spread each with butter, then s^prinkle over a little pepper and salt, cover each piece with breadcrumbs, a little chopped parsley, and on top of each put a piece of b-utter and bake in a slow oven until the birds are cooked, which should take about half an hour. 436— SAUTE OF PIGEON. 4 pigeons Tablespoonful of flour Salt and black pepper Mushrooms Glass of port wine Ijemon. Mode.—Skin the birds and cut each into four pieces, fry them in boiling fat a nice brown, place them in a dish and keep warm. Brown some flour and mix with a little gravy or stock, when nicely thick chop up the mushrooms,Game. and add with pepper and salt to taste, add the wine and juice of a lemon also and pour over the pigeons, allow them to remain in the oven for about a quarter of an hour. Serve with mashed potatoes. 437—EOAST SCEUB TURKEY. 1 turkey Piece of bacon fat Little flour Dripping. Mode.—Pluck and clean the turkey nicely, rub it over with a little flour, put it in a baking tin with the dripping, place pieces of bacon fat over the breast, keep basting it well all the time and bake for an hour. Serve with bread sauce. 438—THE SCRUB TURKEY. The scrub turkey is a very small bird, not much larger than a wild duck, with a breast like a pheasant and flesh as white, in fact, I have often served it as pheasant and people have not known the difference. It is a most delicious bird, one of Australia's best 439—EOAST WONGA PIGEON. 6 pigeons Juice of 3 lemens Saltspoonful of cayenne J- a pound of butter Teaspoonful of salt 2 cupfuls of breadcrumbs 1 tablespoonfui of chopped parsley. Mode.—Pluck and clean the pigeon nicely, rub it over well with flour, pepper and salt them well, make a stuffing with half the butter, all of the breadcrumbs, chopped parsley and pepper and salt, divide it into six and equally stuff each bird. Then squeeze the lemons into a basin and beat up the butter with the juice until it is like a cream. Place the pigeons in a baking tin and cover each one well with the lemon and butter, place in a smart oven and bake for half or three-quarters of an hour, baste them as often as you can. Serve at once with watercress (if obtainable).Game. 440—EAGOUT OF WILD DUCK. Remains of cold wild duck 1 onion stuck with cloves 1 or two carrots 1 saltspoonf ul allspice 1 piece of ginger 1 glass of port wine 1 pint of water Rind of a quarter of lemon Juice of half a lemon 1 teaspoonful salt 1 a teaspoonful black pepper 1 tablespoonful flour 1 small bunch of sweet herbs. Mode.—Out away neatly the legs, wings and breast, then chop up the bones and place in a saucepan with the carrots sliced and the rind of a lemon chopped up very small and the other ingredients, but the port wine, and boil slowly until the onion is quite tender, then remove the onion and herbs, and thicken with the flour (browned), place in the duck, but do not allow to boil or it will get hard. Keep very hot. Just before serving stir in the wine. Dish with mashed potatoes and garnish with lemon. 441—PIGEONS A LA NEAPOLITAN A. 6 pigeons 3 doz oysters Black pepper Salt Chopped parsley 2 tablespoonf uls butter 2 lb. breadcrumbs 1 egg Mode.—Pluck and clean the pigeons, wash them in vinegar and water; clean and wash the giblets ; put the - liver and heart through a mincing machine, then mix them in a basin with the breadcrumbs, the parsley (very finely chopped), a saltspoonf ul of black pepper and salt; mix all these together with the egg and half the butter, then divide equally into six pieces, and add to each part six oysters; stuff each bird as full as possible with the forcemeat, and put them into a baking dish, dust each well with flour, place over them a buttered paper, and bake half an hour.Pepper and salt. Butter SAVOURIES. 442—MAEEOW ON TOAST. 3 marrow "bones Cayenne A little flour Buttered toast Lemon 2 saltspoonfuls of salt. Mode.—Make some paste with flour and water, roll out and cut into three pieces, and cover the ends of the marrow bones so that the water cannot get in ; put the marrow bones into a saucepan with sufficient boiling water to cover them, and two tablespooDfuls of salt, and boil for an hour. These can be sent to the table as they are by taking off the paste and pinning a serviette around ; stand them on a slice of hot toast, or you can take the marrow out and spread on six pieces of buttered toast. Squeeze a lemon over and sprinkle a little cayenne ; must be served very hot. 443_yEaETABLE MAEEOW AU GEATIN. Mode.—Peel the vegetable marrow and cut into small pieces about two inches square and about half an inch thick ; put it on to boil with a tablespoonful of salt; when tender take it out, put a layer of it in a buttered pie- dish with half of the white sauce and half the cheese ; then add cayenne and salt to taste ; put in the remainder of the vegetable marrow; cover with the rest of the white sauce and cheese; put a layer of breadcrumbs over it and pieces of butter ; bake for fifteen minutes or until it is a nice brown. 444_yEaETABLE MAEEOW ESPAGNOLE. 1 small vegetable marrow ^ cupful white sauce 1 cupful grated cheese Cayenne and salt. 1 small vegetable marrow 2 large tomatoes 1 lb. of mincemeat 1 onionSavouries. Mode.—Slice the onion very thin, put it in a sauce- pan with a tablespoonful of butter, pepper and salt to taste; when well cooked slice the tomatoes and add them to the onion ; cover the saucepan and allow them to boil for half an hour ; then peel the vegetable marrow, cut a small piece from the top and scoop out the inside; mix the mincemeat with the tomatoes and onion, season well, then stuff the vegetable marrow with it; put on the piece you cut off and bake for an hour 445—DEVILLED ALMONDS. J lb. almonds (Jordan) Clarified dripping Salt Cayenne. Mode.—Pour boiling water over the almonds to blanch them ; when they are blanched wipe them perfectly dry and drop them singly into boiling dripping or butter ; allow them to boil for half an hour or until they are nice and crisp, then strain and lay on a sheet of blotting paper; sprinkle fine salt over them with a little cayenne; put them in a close tin and they will keep crisp. 446—EOSETTI. 2 cupfuls cold boiled rice ^ lb. minced tongue or ham 2 hard-boiled eggs 1 onion Pepper and salt ^ cupful milk Tablespoonful of butter. Mode.—Chop the onion very fine, put in a frying pan with the butter ; when cooked mix the rice, ham or tongue chopped very finely, also the eggs ; put into the frying pan with the onion and milk ; salt and pepper to taste ; fry for a quarter of an hour. This is a nice breakfast dish. 447—SAVOUEY EICE PUDDING. 1 teacupf ul of rice 2 large onions 2 eggs i lb. butter A cupful of grated cheese Chopped parsley Pepper and salt.Savouries. Mode.—Put the rice into a saucepan with plenty of water and the onions, and a little salt; boil for half an hour ; strain, and take out the onions; mix with the rice, the eggs well beaten, butter, chopped parsley, cheese, pepper and salt to taste ; mix these well together, put in a buttered basin ; tie down with a cloth and boil for two hours. Serve with melted butter, in which you can put some pickles chopped very fine. 448—CHEESE FINGEE8 3 ozs. grated cheese 3 ozs. flour 2 ozs. butter ^ teaspoonful Elliott's Salt and cayenne to taste Queensland baking powder Mode.—Mix the flour and butter well together, then rub in the grated cheese ; moisten them with sufticient milk to make it a stiff paste ; roll out and cut into fingers of about three inches long and one inch wide; bake on a tin in a brisk oven for five minutes, to a light brown color. 449—CHEESE SANDWICHES. 4 ozs. cheese 1 oz. butter 1 teaspoonful dry mustard Lemon juice Slices of cucumber Slices of bread and butter Cayenne. Mode.—Grate the cheese and mix with the butter, mustard, and cayenne to taste, and a few drops of lemon juice. Have ready some thin slices of fresh young cucumber and of thin bread and butter ; spread the mixture on the bread and butter, place the slices of cucumber between ; press two slices of bread together ; cut into neat small shapes and serve on a d'oyley or folded serviette; garnish with fresh sprigs of parsley. 450—CELEEY TOAST. 2 or 3 stalks of celery White sauce Pepper and salt Parsley Milk or water Buttered toast.Savouries. Mode.—Chop the celery in small pieces after washing it thoroughly, drop into boiling milk or water to which salt has been added, and boil till soft. Have ready some buttered toast, cut into neat shapes, and some thick white sauce ; stir the cooked celery into the white sauce ; make thorougUy hot. and place a spoonful on each piece of toast; garnish with fresh parsley (chopped) and serve hot. MACAEONI BATTEE. ^ pt. milk Chopped parsley i lb. flour Brown sauce. Mode.—Place the macaroni in a buttered pie-dish; make a batter of the eggs, milk and flour; season with pepper, salt and chopped parsley ; pour over the macaroni and bake for an hour. Serve very hot with rich brown sauce or gravy. 452—EOAST OYSTEES. Oysters in the shell Salt and pepper (or cayenne) Butter, Mode.—Wash the shells clean and lay the oysters on a gridiron over a bright coal fire ; when the shells open they are done ; take off the top shell and serve on the under one. Put a small piece of butter, a sprinkle of cayenne and a little salt, if necessary, on each oyster. Serve very hot on a folded serviette. 453—SAYOUEY CIGAEETTES. J lb. cold beef i lb. ham i teaspoonf ul powdered herbs Parsley i lb. light pastry 1 egg 1 lemon Pepper and salt 2 teaspoonfuls gravy Eschalot Breadcrumbs. 451— Cooked macaroni Pepper and salt 2 eggsSavouries. Mode.—Mince the meat finely and season with pepper, salt, herbs, finely chopped parsley, grated lemon rind, and a small piece of very finely chopped eschalot; add the gravy and mix thoroughly. Roll the pastry out thinly, cut in pieces about three inches long and two inches wide, spread with the mixture, roll up cigarette fashion, wetting the edges of the pastry to make them adhere. Brush over with beaten egg, roll in fine breadcrumbs, and fry in very hot fat. Arrange in a pyramid on a hot dish; garnish with fried parsley and serve. 454—ANCHOVY CEOUTONS. Anchovies Olives Croutons of bread Mayonnaise. Mode.—Spread the croutons with the mayonnaise, having as many fried as the number of people, have the same number of anchovies and olives ; stone the olives without breaking them ; take out the centre curl of the anchovies (which must be skinned), and place that in the middle of the olives, and put the anchovy ring that is left on the crouton ; place the olives in the middle, standing on end, and serve. 455—CHEESE SAVOUEY. Puff pastry 3 tablespoonfuls cheese ^ teaspoonful lemon juice 1 dessertspoonful cream 1 egg Cayenne and salt Parsley. Mode.—line some tiny patty pans with the puff paste; separate the white and yolk of the egg, grate the cheese (if possible let half be parmessan), mix with it the yolk of the egg, lemon juice, cayenne, salt if required, and a dessertspoonful of cream (the latter may be dispensed with if wished) j beat the white of the egg to a stiff frothSavouries. and mix lightly with the other ingredients, half fill the tartlets and bake in a quick oven till the pastry is done. Garnish with sprigs of finely chopped parsley and serve immediately. 456—SAYOUEY SANDWICHES, 4 slices of stale bread 2 ozs. butter 1 egg Devilled ham Lemon juice Breadcrumbs. Mode.—Cut the slices of bread rather thin, spread each with the devilled ham, and if liked very hot, add a little cayenne ; press the two slices together, cut out with a small cutter or with a sharp knife, brush over with the beaten egg, toss in breadcrumbs, and fry a pretty golden brown in very hot fat; drain for a moment and serve decorated with finely chopped parsley and breadcrumbs. 457—SAEDINE TABLETS. Short parsley 1 oz. butter 1 teaspoonful capers 4 hard-boiled eggs Pepper 6 or 8 sardines Salt. Mode.—Line some very small patty tins with the pastry rolled very thin, fill them with dry rice and bake till of a golden brown ; shake out the rice ; wipe the oil from the sardines, skin them and pound in a mortar or basin with the hard-boiled yolks, butter, pepper, capers and salt; fill the pastry cases with this mixture^ make very hot and serve. 458—TOMATO NESTS. 6 or 8 large tomatoes 2 ozs. cooked macaroni 2 ozs. finely chopped ham i oz. butter 1 tablespoonful browned 1 tablespoonful white crumbs breadcrumbs 1 tablespoonful gravy Pepper and salt 1 teaspoonful of cheese.Savouries. Mode.—Melt the butter in a stewpan and fry in it the ham, a very small piece of finely chopped onion, if liked, and white breadcrumbs; when it is nice and brown pour in the gravy and the scooped-out centre of the tomatoes finely chopped ; nearly fill the tomatoes with this mixture after seasoning it with pepper and salt; make a hollow in the centre and fill it with the macaroni cut in small pieces, sprinkle round the edge and over the tomato the browned breadcrumbs and cheese mixed together. Bake in a moderate oven ten or fifteen minutes till the tomatoes are cooked. 459— CUCUMBER ASPIC. 1 pt. aspic 1 tin pate-de-fois gras 1 young cucumber. Mode.—Binse small dariole moulds out in cold water, run in a little melted aspic (half the moulds might be red aspic and the other half yellow), place two or three pieces of the pate in the mould; cut the cucumber in thin slices and place a slice in the mould, then run in some aspic, and continue arranging layers of the pate and cucumber, setting each in the melted aspic until the moulds are full; the aspic, though melted, must not be warm. Put in a cold place until set, and they are then ready to serve. 460— CHEESE WAFEES. J lb. puff pastry 1 egg Lemon juice 2 ozs. grated cheese 2 ozs. butter Salt and parsley. Mode.—Poll out the pastry very thinly, cut in half; put the cheese, butter and a little cayenne and salt into a small saucepan; drop in the yolk of the egg, make thoroughly hot; add lemon juice to taste ; spread this mixture when cool on one half of the pastry, cover with the other half; cut in rounds or squares with a sharp knife or cutter; brush over with the beaten white of the/Savouries. egg ; place on a greased baking sheet and bake a nice brown for eight or ten minutes ; arrange after on a d'oyiey. Dust with cayenne, garnish with tiny sprigs of parsley and serve very hot. 461—AMEEIOAN MACAEONI CHEESE. 6 tomatoes 1 onion Dessertspoonful of dripping J lb. macaroni 3 tablespoonfuls grated Salt and cayenne to taste cheese Mode.—Fry the tomatoes, with the onion sliced, in the dripping, until the onion is tender; in the meantime boil the macaroni in water with a little salt ; when cooked put in a pie-dish with the onion, tomatoes and cheese, half a teaspoonful of salt, a little cayenne. Mix all well to- gether, then cover with breadcrumbs and bake for fifteen minutes. 462—ANCHOVY CREAM. 12 anchovies i pt. cream Lemon juice Cayenne. Mode.—Bone the anchovies and pound them up in a mortar; mix the cream, juice of a lemon, and a little cayenne with them ; spread thickly on slices of hot buttered toast. 463—ANCHOVY CANAPES. 6 anchovies 2 hard-boiled eggs Cayenne 6 small squares toast Parsley. Mode.—Bone the anchovies, cut them in two, length- ways ; chop up the eggs, moisten with the oil of the anchovy, and add a little cayenne ; pile up the egg on each piece of toast, then cross the anchovy on the top; put a little leaf of parsley on them; keep them in the oven until required (to keep hot), but do not let them get dry.Savouries. 464—ANCHOYY TOAST AND POACHED EGGS, 2 ozs. butter A tablespoonful anchov;^ Cayenne paste Toast and eggs. Mode.—Mix the paste with the butter and spread on the toast very hot, sprinkle a little cayenne; poach the eggs, as many as required; cut the toast into round pieces, then place an egg on each piece; serve at once. 465—ANCHOYIES AND OLIYES. 1 doz. Spanish olives 6 anchovies Lemon Cayenne. Mode.—Bone and pound up the anchovies, put in a little lemon juice and a pinch of cayenne ; take the stone out of the olives and fill up with the anchovy ; serve three on a small piece of toast to each person. 466—ANCHOYIES ON TOAST. 6 anchovies Juice of half a lemon Cayenne Toast Mode.—Bone the anchovies, lay on the strips of hot buttered toast; squeeze a lemon and a little cayenne ; serve hot. 467— ANCHOYY SANDWICHES. Anchovy paste Cayenne Thin bread and butter. MoDE.^—Mix the paste with a little butter and half a saltspoonful of cayenne, spread on very thin bread ; put another piece of bread over, cut away the crust, then cut across; when you have sufficient, place on a plate on which you have folded a serviette or d'oyley. 468— ANGELS ON HOESEBACK. 1 doz. large oysters 1 doz. squares fat bacon Juice of lemon Cayenne.Savouries, Mode.—Squeeze the lemon over the oysters and sprinkle with cayenne ; put each oyster in a piece of bacon and roll; pack them tightly in a pie-dish and bake nice and crisp ; serve three on each piece of toast, about three inches long and one and a-half wide. 469—ASPAEAGUS ON TOAST. 1 bunch or tin asparagus Butter Cayenne. Mode.—If fresh, boil in water with a little salt until tender, then dish up on toast with melted butter and a little cayenne, if tinned just open the tin and stand on the stove to heat and serve with oiled butter. 470—ASPAEAGUS MAYONNAISE. 1 tin asparagus A cupful rich mayonnaise. Mode.—Put the tin of asparagus in ice for two or three hours. Serve with mayonnaise dressing, from recipe No. 347. 471—BUTTEEED EGGS. 6 egffs 2 ozs. butter Parsley Pepper and salt. Mode.—Get six dariole tins or small cups, butter them, then sprinkle chopped parsley all round, break an egg into each cup, put in a little pepper and salt and a small piece of butter, and steam for five or six minutes, turn out on small pieces of buttered toast. 472—BUTTEEED OYSTEES. 2 doz oysters 2 eggs 4 ozs. butter Juice of a lemon Cayenne. Mode.—Beat up the eggs well, then mix with the oysters and their liquor, squeeze half a lemon and add a little cayenne ; butter some dariole tins, put about four orSavouries, five oysters in each with the egg; steam for five or six minutes, and turn out on buttered toast. 473—COD'S EOE CEEAM. 1 tin cod's roes (soft) J cupful rich cream (or Juice of a lemon good white sauce) Cayenne and an egg. Mode.—Put the cod's roe in a basin ; remove all skin and sinews, mix with the cream or white sauce, juice of a lemon and cayenne; when it is well mixed, beat up the egg and add; put into a saucepan and stir over the fire until hot. Serve on hot buttered toast. 474—OAVIAHE SANDWICHES. Eussian caviare (small pot) 1 onion Tablespoonful of oil Cayenne. Mode.—Mix the caviare in a basin with the lemon juice, oil and cayenne, until it looks like a cream ; cut the bread and butter very thin, and spread the caviare on rather thickly; place another piece of bread on and press it together and serve. 475—CAYIAEE ON TOAST. 1 small pot Eussian caviare Lemon, cayenne and toast. Mode.—Mix the caviare with the juice of the lemon and a little cayenne until it has a creamy look, then spread on hot toast and serve at once. 476—CAYIAEE AU BEUEEE. Caviare 1 oz. butter Lemon and cayenne. Mode.—Mix the caviare with the lemon and cayenne, as in recipe 475; put into a small saucepan with the butter ; when well mixed serve on hot toast with a slice of lemon.Savouries. t 477—CHEESE CANAPES. 2 or 3 slices of bread Little mustard Cayenne Cheese. Mode.—Cut each slice of bread into four, butter them ; on each spread a little mustard; lay on a tablespoonful of grated cheese ; bake in a brisk oven. Serve at once. 478_CHEESE SOUFFLE. Yolks of 4 eggs Tablespoonful of flour 4 ozs. grated cheese J pt. milk. Mode.—Put the yolks of the eggs in a basin with a little cayenne, salt, flour and cheese, work altogether with a spoon until quite smooth ; beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and add, with the milk, to the other in- gredients ; pour it into a buttered pie-dish (deep one) and bake. Serve immediately. 479_CEEAM CHEESE SAYOUEY. lb. butter 6 tablespoonfuls grated 1 tin unsweetened condensed cheese milk or cream Breadcrumbs 6 eggs. Mode.—Beat up the eggs and butter to a cream, mix with it the milk, cheese, cayenne, and juice of half a lemon; put in suflicient breadcrumbs to make it stiff enough to roll into balls; drop them into boiling fat and fry a nice golden brown. Gentlemen like these better than fritters or light puddings. 480—CHEESE STEAWS. 2 ozs. butter 2 ozs. breadcrumbs 2 ozs. flour 2 ozs. cheese Cayenne and salt. Mode.—Mix the grated cheese, breadcrumbs, flour and butter togethei, and a little cayenne and salt; moistenSavouries. if required with a little milk; roll out and cut into thin strips ; bake in a moderate oven; pile across each other high on small plates and serve. 481—DEVILLED PEAWNS. 1 pt. prawns Saltspoonful of cayenne 2 tablespoonfuls Worcester- 2 eggs shire sauce J lb. butter 2 tablespoonfuls anchovy 4 tablespoonfuls curry sauce powder Mode.—Put the heads and pickings of the prawns in half a pint of water and boil for half an hour ; mix in a basin the butter, eggs, sauce, cayenne and curry powder, put into a saucepan and stir until it boils ; then add the water in which the heads and pickings of the prawns were boiled, thicken with a little flour ; add the prawns and boil for another ten minutes ; serve with boiled rice ; milk may be used instead of water. 482—DEVILLED BISCUITS. 6 large thin Captain biscuits Butter , Cayenne. Mode.—Butter the biscuits rather thickly, sprinkle with cayenne ; put in a very hot oven for three minutes a.nd serve at once. 483—EGGS AU GEATIN. 9 hard-boiled eggs 3 ozs. grated cheese Cayenne Breadcrumbs and butter J pt. white sauce A little mustard. Mode.—Cut the eggs in half, lay on a flat dish, cover with the white sauce, cheese, a little dry mustard and cayenne, then cover with a thin layer of breadcrumbs ; put on little pieces of butter and bake until a nice brown.Savouries. 484—SAYOUEY EGGS. 6 hard-boiled eggs 6 sardines Butter Cayenne and salt J cupful white sauce. Mode.—Cut the eggs in half, take the yokes out and put them into a mortar with the sardines (which must be boned and skinned), a little cayenne, salt, and a spoonful of butter ; cut the end of each piece of the white of the egg so as to make it stand up; fill the cup with the mixture and stand them on toast; then put them in the oven while you make the sauce. Of course you will have more of the mixture left than will fill the whites ; mix that with the white sauce and allow it to come to a boil, stirring all the time. You must have that qui t o smooth, then pour it over the eggs and serve very hot. 485—BAKED EGGS. 6 eggs 2 ozs. fat bacon Cayenne 2 tablespoonfuls of milk. Mode.—Chop up the bacon very small, sprinkle with a little cayenne ; put into a small pie-dish with the milk ; place in the oven and allow it to cook for fifteen minutes; then break the eggs carefully into the dish on the top of the bacon ; put back in the oven and bake until the eggs are cooked; in a hot oven they take about ten minutes. 486—EGGS ESPAGNOLE. 6 eggs 2 onions 3 tomatoes Tablespoonful of butter Cayenne and salt 2 ozs. grated cheese. Mode.—Slice and chop the onions very fine, put them with half the butter on to cook ; when they are done, put about half into a small pie-dish ; then slice half of the tomatoes, put them in, then a layer of cheese; break the eggs very carefully, then put on the rest of the onion, salt and cayenne, tomatoes, and the remainder of the cheese ;Savouries. Sprinkle over with the breadcrumbs ; put on the remainder 01 the butter and bake for half an hour. 487—CUEEIED EGGS. 6 hard-boiled eggs 1 tablespoonful desiccated i pt. milk cocoanut 1 tablespoonful curry powder Salt and pepper. Mode.—Boil the cocoanut and milk together for half an hour; mix the curry powder to a paste with a little milk and pour in; then cut the eggs in eight pieces, and with the pepper and salt put into the curry. Serve with boiled rice. 488— EGGS A LA FEANOAISES. 6 hard-boiled eggs 2 ozs. butter Juice of a lemon ^ cupful white sauce Cayenne. Mode.—Put the butter into a saucepan with the cayenne and juice of a lemon ; cut up the eggs into eight pieces, put them with the white sauce into the saucepan ; allow to come to the boil. Serve on hot toast. 489— TUETLE FINS ON TOAST. 1 tin Skinner's turtle fins 1 lemon A tablespoonful butter Cayenne. Mode.—Empty the tin of fins into a small saucepan with the butter, lemon juice and cayenne ; allow to come to a boil. Serve on toast with a slice of lemon. 490—HEEEING CEEAM. 1 red herring ^ pt. thick cream or good Cayenne white sauce Juice of a lemon. Mode.—Soak the herring in boiling water for five minutes, skin and pick out the roe, put it into a mortar with the flesh (being careful all the bones are out), poundSavouries. it up until quite smooth ; then mix in the lemon juice, cayenne and the cream; put in a saucepan and boil. Serve on hot toast. 491—LIYEE SAYOUEY. 3 chickens' livers 1 lemon Cayenne 9 pieces of bacon (about 1^ inches square). Mode.—Out each liver into three, squeeze the lemon over, and sprinkle with cayenne ; roll each piece in bacon ; place close together in a pie-dish and bake. Serve three on each piece of toast. 492—LIYER SAYOUEY (Another Way) 3 livers (chicken, turkey or T.ablespoonful butter goose livers) Salt 1 half tin mushrooms A teaspoonful chopped par- Cayenne sley. Mode.—Chop up the liver very fine with the mush- rooms ; put them into a saucepan with the butter, cayenne and salt; boil until the liver is cooked; then add the parsley (chopped). Serve on hot toast with slices of lemon. 493—MACAEONI CHEESE. J lb. macaroni ^ cupful white sauce 3 ozs. grated cheese Tablespoonful of made mus- Cayenne and salt tard. Breadcrumbs and butter. Mode.—Boil the macaroni until tender in water with a teaspoonful of salt; put it into a pie-dish with half the cheese and the white sauce, in which you have mixed the mustard, and a saltspoonful of cayenne and salt; mix it altogether well; then put over the remainder of the cheese and breadcrumbs, with pieces of butter spread over them. Bake until a nice brown.Savouries. 494—MACAEONI ESPAGNOLE. i lb. macaroni 1 large onion 3 tomatoes Saltspoonfiil cayenne Teaspoonful salt Butter. Mode.—Put the macaroni on to boil, slice the onion, place in a pie-dish with two tablespoonfuls of butter, put in the oven, when cooked slice the tomatoes and add with the macaroni (if boiled enough), cayenne and salt, cover with breadcrumbs and bake for half an hour. 495—MACAEONI A L'INDIENNE. i lb. macaroni (boiled) 2 teaspoonfuls of curry Saltspoonful cayenne powder 1 onion and 1 apple ^ teaspoonful salt Tablespoonful of butter. Mode.—Slice the onion very thin, put in the saucepan with the butter, salt, cayenne and curry powder, add the apple, when well cooked mix them with the macaroni which has been previously boiled. Serve hot. 496—CAULIFLOWEE AU GEATIN. 1 cauliflower 5 ozs. cheese Tablespoonful made mustard J cupful of white sauce Breadcrumbs Butter. Mode.—Boil the cauliflower until tender, put in an entree dish as flat as possible ; mix half the cheese in the white sauce, mustard, cayenne, pour over the cauliflower and allow it to soak in, then put on the rest of the cheese and cover with breadcrumbs, put on small pieces of butter and bake until a nice brown. Serve very hot. 497—PEAWNS MANTALINI. i lb. prawns 1 tin mushrooms Cayenne 1 tomato 3 ozs. butter Juice of a lemon.Savouries. Mode.—Put the prawns, tomato and mushrooms through the mincing machine, then put into a saucepan with the butter, cayenne and lemon juice. Allow this to come to a boil, and serve on hot toast with a slice of lemon. 498—PEAWNS A LA FEANCAISES. ^ pt. picked prawns 4 ozs. butter i cupful white sauce Cayenne Juice of a lemon. Mode.—Put the butter, lemon juice and cayenne into a saucepan, then put in the prawns, allow them to cook until the butter is pink, then add the white sauce. Serve on toast with a slice of lemon. 499_EUSSIAN CEEAM. 1 tin cod's roes (soft) i pt. cream or good white Juice of a lemon sauce 1 egg Cayenne. Mode.—Put the cod's roes into a mortar with the cream or white sauce, beat up until perfectly smooth then add the egg, cayenne, and juice of a lemon, put into a saucepan and allow to come to a boil. Serve on small pieces of toast. 500—SAEDINE SANDWICHES. 1 tin sardines 1 lemon Butter Cayenne. Mode.—Empty the tin of sardines out, take away all the bones and skin, then pound them up in a mortar with one tablespoonful of butter, half a saltspoonful of cayenne and the juice of the lemon. Cut some very thin bread and butter, spread the mixture fairly thick and cover with another piece of bread and butter. Cut away all the crust and lay neatly on a d'oyley.Savouries. 601--DEYILLED SAEDINES. 5 large sardines Mustard Butter Cayenne Mode.—Skin tlie sardines, make a mixture of a tea- spoonful of mustard, a tablespoonful butter, half a salt- spoonful cayenne, spread over the sardines, put in a very hot oven for five minjites. Serve on hot toast. 502—DEVILLED OYSTEES. A bottle of oysters (fresh) 4 tablespoonfuls curry 2 tablespoonfuls Worcester- powder shire sauce 2 eggs 1 tablespoonful anchovy sauce Saltspoonful cayenne ^ lb. butter ^ teacup milk. Mode.—Mix in a basin the butter, eggs, sauce, cayenne and curry powder ; put it in a saucepan and stir until it boils, then pour in the milk ; when it is boiling, thicken with a little flour. Ten minutes before serving add the oysters. Of course smaller quantities can be done. Serve with boiled rice. 503—WELCH EAEEBIT. 4 tablespoonfuls grated cheese A wineglass of ale 2 tablespoonfuls butter Cayenne and salt ■J- a tablespoonful mustard. Mode.—Put the ale in a saucepan with the butter, then put in the cheese (a moist cheese is the best) add the cayenne, salt and mustard, and stir until it boils. Serve at once on hot buttered toast. 504 OEAB A LA FEANOAISES. Flesh of one crab 3 ozs. butter Juice of a lemon Cayenne A little cream or white sauce.Savouries. MoiDE.—Pick the flesh from the crab, put the butter in the saucepan, with the juice of a lemon and cayenne. When boiling put in the flesh from the crab, and then the cream or white sauce. Allow it to boil, and serve on hot toast with a slice of a lemon. 505—WELCH EAEEBIT AIN'D POACHED EGGS. Make the rarebit as above (recipe No. 503), on each piece of toast pour over some of the rarebit, then poach an egg, lay on top and serve at once. 506—CUCUMBEE SANDWICHES. Thin bread and butter CucL.niber Cayenne Potted ham. Mode.—Cut your bread as thin as a slice of cucumber, mix the butter and a little potted ham together, sprinkle with cayenne, spread this mixture on the bread, and between each piece of bread place a slice of cucumber. These sandwiches must be cut very thin and delicate. 507—CELEEY AU GEATIN. 1 bunch celery 1 oz. grated cheese 1 oz. breadcrumbs ^ pt. white sauce 2 tablespoonfuls butter Salt and pepper. Mode.—Cut the celery into pieces about two inches long, and put into a saucepan to boil until tender; drain it and place it in a flat dish, sprinkle it well with pepper and salt, then roll each piece into the white sauce (which ought to be rather thick), then into the breadcrumbs. Butter a pie-dish and place in very neatly, so that they do not touch and sprinkle the cheese over and any bread- crumbs that remain spread pieces of butter on, and bake it until a nice brown. Serve on toast, 508—CAULIFLOWEE AND OYSTER SAUCE. 1 cauliflower 2 doz oysters 1 tablespoonful of butter i a pt. of milk 2 tablespoonfuls of flour Salt and pepper.Savouries. Mode.—Cut away the outside leaves from the cauli- flower, wash it carefully, and place it into a large sauce- pan of boiling water (into which you must put one tablespoonful of salt), the flower down. Boil it until quite tender, take it up and pufc it in a colander over the sauce- pan to strain while you make the sauce :—Half a pint of milk, half pint of the water that the cauliflower was boiled in and a little of the liquor from the oysters. Mix the flour to a smooth paste with a little of the oyster liquor, and stir with the milk, etc.; add the butter and pepper and salt to taste. 509— DEVILS ON CHAEIOTS. 6 sheeps kidneys 12 slices of bacon Cayenne Teaspoonful chopped Salt parsley 6 slices of toast. Mode.—Cut each kidney in halves lengthways and roll each half in a slice of nice fat bacon, sprinkle freely with cayenne pepper; place them in a small pie-dish, pack tightly together, scatter the parsley over and bake for twenty minutes in a fast oven. Place two pieces on each slice of toast and serve at once 510— EGGS AND BEETEOOT. 3 eggs 2 slices of beetroot A little cold chicken or meat Pepper and salt Lettuce. Mode.—Boil the eggs for ten minutes, shell them and cut them in half, take out the yolks, cut off the tips so that they can stand well. Chop up the beetroot, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and fill two of the cups with it, then fill two with the yolks of the eggs cut into small dice and the remaining two with the chicken cut into small pieces. Lay the lettuce on a dish and place the egg cups around it.Savouries. 511—ASPAEAGUS A LA VINAGEETTE. 1 tin asparagus J a cupful of vinegar 1 tablespoonful oil ^ a teaspoonful cayenne Mode.—Place the asparagus in ice until it is nice and cold, put it in an entree dish. Mix the vinegar, oil and cayenne well together and pour over the asparagus just before sending it to the table. 512— ANCHOYY EGGS. 6 eggs Dessertspoonful anchovy Pepper and salt sauce A little butter. Mode.—Boil the eggs hard, then shell them and cut them lengthways. Take the yolks out and put them in a basin with the anchovy sauce, butter, pepper and salt to taste. When well mixed fill the white of eggs with it and serve same up on toast. 513— ANCHOVY PASTE. 4 anchovies Finely minced parsley 4 ozs. butter Cayenne to taste. Mode.—Pound the anchovies, washed and boned to a smooth paste, with the butter and a little parsley very finely chopped, cayenne to taste ; put it into a small jar, and stand on ice until perfectly firm, then turn out and serve with hot dry toast. 514—POTATO NEST (A nice breakfast dish). 3 or 4 slices of ham 4 eggs ^ lb. cold potatoes Butter Cayenne. Mode.—Mash the potatoes and line a well buttered small pie-dish with them ; then cut the ham into slices about two inches squa*re; put these into the pie-dish on top of the potatoes and sprinkle with a little cayenne;Savouries. bake for about a quarter of an hour; take it from the oven and break the eggs into it, being careful not to break the yolks ; then return to the oven and bake until the eggs are well cooked. 515—CHEESE DAELINGS. 2 ozs. cheese 2 ozs. butter 3 ozs. cornflour 1 egg Cayenne and salt. Mode.—Grate the cheese and mix well with the corn- flour, then rub in the butter, moisten with the egg (well beaten), add cayenne and salt ; roll out very carefully and cut with a very small round shape ; lift with a knife and place on to a buttered tin j bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes.PASTRY, PIES AND PUDDINGS. 516_PUrF PASTE MADE WITH BUTTEE. 1 lb. butter 1 lb. flour ^ pt. of water. Mode.—Mix the flour to a light paste with the water, so that it can be rolled out without much pressure ; roll it out and spread a third of the butter on, then dredge a little flour, fold in three, roll out again, then repeat, until you have rolled and folded it three times in three ; then roll it out flat, spread a little butter and flour, fold in half and roll it; it is then ready for use. You must be particular about the folding it three times in three, then the fourth in half. Marrow is equally as good as butter. 517—PUFF PASTE MADE WITH SUET. 1 lb. flour |- lb. beef suet i pt. of water. Mode.—Mix the flour to a light paste with a little water, using a knife ; put the suet through the sausage machine, then work it with the rolling pin, adding a little water occasionally, until it is the same consistency as the paste ; make the suet into a ball, place in the centre of the paste ; roll the paste all round the suet, then roll out, fold in three, and roll three times, the fourth time fold in two, and roll out; it is then ready for use ; if for sweet pastry, you can add a tablespoonful of sugar to the flour. 518—SHOET OEUST. 1 lb. flour i lb. butter J pt. water Pinch of salt. Mode.—Put the butter into the flour; when mixed thoroughly add the water gradually, until it is a stiffFastry, Pies and Puddings, paste ; roll out two or three times ; it is then ready for use ; if for sweet paste, add a teaspoonful of sugar. This can also be made with nice clarified dripping or marrow. 519—SUET CEUST FOE BOILED PUDDINGS. 1 lb. flour ^ lb. beef suet ^ pt. water Salt. Mode.—Chop the suet very fine, being careful to take away all the skin and shreds ; rub the suet into the flour ; add a little salt, mix the water with it, until you have a nice smooth paste ; roll out and it is then ready for use. 520—APPLE PUDDING-. Paste made from boiled suet Cloves crust recipe, No. 519 6 apples Sugar. Mode.—Line a buttered basin with the paste; peel, core, and cut the apples into slices until the basin is full; add a tablespoonful of sugar (or a little more), about half a dozen cloves; cover with crust; pinch the edges to- gether ; flour a cloth and tie securely over the top ; put it into boiling water and boil for an hour and a half, a little more will not matter as boiled puddings improve with being thoroughly well boiled. 521—GEANADILLA PIE. 6 granadillas 2 lemons J cupful of sugar Puff paste. Mode.—Cut up the granadillas and put them into a pie-dish; squeeze two lemons, add the juice, the sugar and a few cloves to the granadillas ; do not add any water, as they are sufliciently moist without it. Cover with puff paste and bake.Pastry, Pies and Puddings. 522—APEICOT PIE. J lb. Mildura apricots Essence of lemon Sugar Puff paste. Mode.—Get the Mildura dried apricots, soak them over night, then stew them in about half a pint of water with a cupful of sugar, and a few drops of essence of lemon, for about half an hour ; put them in a pie-dish ; cover with puff paste and bake for twenty minutes. 523—APEICOT CEEAM. J lb. Mildura apricots (or 1 tin) ^ pt. milk 5 eggs 1 cupful sugar. Mode.—Having soaked the apricots over night, put them on to stew with half a pint of water and half of the sugar (leaving the remaining half for the custard) for one hour; put them in a pie-dish, and when cold put the cream or boiled custard over them. To Make the Cream or Custard. Mode.—Put the milk on to boil; beat up the whole of three eggs and the yolks of two more ; mix in the remainder of the sugar, and then pour the boiling milk on to the eggs, stirring the one way all the time until it thickens ; when cold pour over the apricots, then beat up the remaining whites to a stiff froth, and ornament the top with it. 524—APEICOT SOUFFLE. ^ lb. Mildura apricats or 1 tin 1 cupful boiled rice of preserved ones Small cupful sugar 4 eggs Nutmeg. Mode.—If the tinned apricots are used, they need not be stewed first; but if the dried, it is necessary to soak them over night, and stew them for an hour ; mix the apricots, sugar and rice well together in a pie-dish ; beatPastry, Pies and Puddings. up the eggs (yolks and whites separately), then beat them together, and pour over the apricots ; grate a little nutmeg over it and bake for twenty minutes. 525—APEICOT PUDDING. J lb. dried apricots Small cupful sugar Some suet paste 4 or 5 cloves. Mode.—Line a small basin with suet crust, fill up with apricots (which must be previously soaked over night if not tinned); put in the sugar and cloves and a little water; cover with the paste and tie a floured cloth over it securely; put into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for one hour and a half or two hours. Turn out and serve at once. 526—BOILED BEEAD PUDDING. |- lb. of the crumbs of bread 1 cupful currants 5 eggs 1 small cupful sugar 4 ozs. suet 1 pt. milk. Mode.—Soak the bread in a basin with the milk ; chop the suet very fine, mix it into the bread with the other ingredients; beat up the eggs well and stir all together; dip a cloth in boiling water, then dredge a little flour over it and pour the mixture into it; tie it up securely and drop into a saucepan of boiling water ; boil for three hours. Serve with sweet white sauce. 527—BAKED BEEAD AND BUTTEE PUDDING. Bread and butter 4 eggs Currants Pint of milk Lemon peel Sugar. Mode.—Cut some slices of bread and butter ; place a layer in the bottom of a pie-dish, sprinkle over a few currants and some lemon peel chopped very fine; thtjnPastay, Pies and Puddings. another layer of bread and butter, and continue so until the pie-dish is filled; beat up the eggs and sugar together, mix with the milk and pour over the bread and butter, bake for twenty minutes in a hot oven. 528—CABINET PUDDING. 1 handful stoned raisins 4 eggs 1 piece of lemon peel Sugar Bread and butter 1 pt. milk Nutmeg. Mode.—Butter a mould well, then cut the lemon peel in slices and lay in the mould evenly around, put in a layer of the raisins, then cut thin slices of bread and butter and lay in the mould also, sprinkle in the remainder of the raisins, repeat until the mould is full; beat up the eggs, sugar and grated nutmeg together, mix with the milk, then pour it over the bread, allow it to stand for half an hour, then flour a cloth, tie on securely and boil for one hour. Serve with custard sauce. 529—EIOH CABINET PUDDING. 1 handful of stoned raisins 4 eggs ^ cupful currants 1 pt. milk 2 pieces of lemon peel Sugar and nutmeg Sponge cake. Mode.—Butter a mould, cut half the lemon peel in slices, lay it around the mould with half of the raisins, put in a lajer of sponge cake, chop up the remainder of the raisins, lemon peel and currants, put in a layer of them, then fill with the sponge calre. Beat up the eggs with the sugar and nutmeg, mix with the milk and pour over the cake ; allow it to stand for half an hour, and then stand in a saucepan which is half full of boiling water and steam for an hour and a half. Serve with sweet white sauce.Pastry^ Ties and Puddings. 530—CHOCOLATE PUDDING. J a cupful chocolate (or J lb.) 1 pt. milk 1 cupful breadcrumbs 4 eggs 3 tablespoonfuls sugar Yanilla. Mode.—Boil the milk and mix the sugar and chocolate with it, pour it over the breadcrumbs into a basin, beat up the eggs well with the breadcrumbs and milk, pour into a buttered mould and steam until it sets. Allow to get cold and serve with custard sauce. 531— BAKED CUSTAED. 1J pts. milk J cupful sugar 5 eggs Essence of lemon. Nutmeg. Mode.—Beat up the eggs well with the sugar and essence of lemon, then add the milk, a little at a time ; pour into a pie-dish, put a small piece of butter in, grate a little nutmeg over and bake for half an hour. 532— BOILED CUSTAED. 1 qt milk Yanilla 8 eggs Cupful sugar. Mode.—Boil the milk, beat up the eggs with the sugar and essence of lemon, pour in the boiling milk, stirring one way all the time ; pour back into a jug, stand the jug in a saucepan of boiling water on the fire, stir until it thickens, then stand aside until cool; serve in custard glasses, with a little grated nutmeg or the white of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth on top. 533—ICED PUDDING. 1J pts. boiled custard 1 box candied fruits ^ pt. milk. Mode.—-Make one and a half pints of boiled custard from the previous recipe, when cold, mix the half pint of milk with it; put it in the ice cream machine, when frozenPastry, Pies and Puddings, to the consistency of ice cream chop up the candied fruits, put in a mould, fill up with the ice cream, put on the lid and rub a little butter round the mould where the lid fits over. Cover with crushed ice and coarse salt for about an hour or an hour and a half ; turn out just before wanted. The moulds must have lids that fit well. 534— ICED SAGO PUDDING. 1 small cupful sago Vanilla 1 qt. milk 6 or 8 eggs Sugar. Mode.—Boil the sago with the milk until cooked, then beat up the eggs well, add the sugar, the essence of vanilla and the eggs to the sago, and stand until cold. Put into an ice cream machine until nearly set, stirring all the time, then place in moulds and bury in ice and salt, until required ; turn out just before using. 535— MACAEONI PUDDING. 4 ozs. macaroni Sugar 4 eggs Essence of lemon 1 pt. milk. Mode.—Put the macaroni on in water with a little salt, and allow it to boil for an hour or until tender, strain and put in a pie-dish, beat up the eg-gs well, add the milk and a small cupful of sugar, also a little essence of lemon, pour this over the macaroni and bake for twenty minutes. 536—EICE PUDDING. 1 cupful rice Small cupful sugar 4 eggs Essence of lemon or vanilla 1 pt. milk. Mode.—A cupful of rice boiled in plenty of water until tender, strain and put in a pie-dish ; beat up the eggs with the sugar, add the milk and essence of lemon or vanilla, pour over the rice and bake.Fastry^ Fies mid Fuddings. 537—PLAIN EICE PUDDING. 1 cupful rice 1 qt. milk ^ cupful sugar. Mode.—Put the rice, sugar and milk into a pie-dish and bake for two hours in a slow oven. 538—SUET PUDDING. J lb. suet 1 egg 1 lb. flour J cupful sugar J pt. water or milk. Mode.—Chop the suet very fine, rub well into the flour, add the sugar and a teaspoonful of salt, beat up the egg and add to the other ingredients, then pour on the milk or water (whichever you are using); have it moist enough to drop from a spoon, if too dry it will be heavy, dip the cloth in boiling water and sprinkle a little flour over it, put the pudding in this and tie securely ; drop into boiling water and boil from two to two and a half hours. Serve with jam, treacle or custard sauce. 539—CUSTAED TAETS. Puff paste Sugar 5 eggs Essence of lemou 1 pt. milk Sultanas. Mode.—Line some patty pans with a good puff paste, put about half a dozen sultanas in, then fill up with the custard, grate a little nutmeg over each and bake for about twenty minutes. To make the custard, beat up the eggs with the sugar, and add the milk and essence of lemon. 540—CAPE GOOSEBEEEY FOOL. 1 qt. cape gooseberries 1 pt. boiled custard 1 cupful sugar. Mode.—Put the gooseberries into a saucepan with the sugar, but no water, allow them to boil for half an hour;Pastry, Pies and Puddings. (be careful they do not boil too fast or the berries will burst). Allow to get cold and place in a glass dish, pour over them the boiled custard. Skinner's cape gooseberries in tins are quite as good as fresh ones. 541—BISCUIT PUDDING. J lb. sweet biscuits Essence of vanilla 1 pt. milk 3 eggs Sugar. Mode,—Pound up the biscuits in a mortar ; into them stir the milk gradually so that they do not get lumpy, add two tablespoonfuls of sugar and a few drops of essence of vanilla; beat up the eggs, mix altogether, pour into a buttered pie-dish and bake for twenty minutes. 542—APPLE BATTEE PUDDING, 1 lb. apples ^ cupful flour 3 eggs 1 pt. milk cupful sugar. Mode.—Peel and core the apples, cut in very thin slices, place them in a pie-dish. Beat up the eggs well, then dredge in the flour and sugar, when they are quite smooth add the milk, pour over the apples and bake in a smart oven Serve very hot. 543—APPLE CHARLOTTE. Stale bread ^ glass sherry 1 doz. apples Butter 1 lemon Sugar. Mode.—Peel and core the apples, cut in thin slices, put into a saucepan with half a cupful of sugar and the lemon, allow to cook until it is a pulp, line a buttered basin with slices of bread and butter, put a round piece at the bottom, and pieces shaped in the basin round the sides, allowing each piece to overlap so that the apple juice does not escape, brush over with the white of an egg ; fill it up 0Pastry, PUs and Puddings. with, the apple pulp and the sherry, put a piece of bread and butter on the top, the shape of the basin and press it down, place a plate on top of the basin and bake in a brisk oven. 544_SURPEISE PUDDING, 1 pt. sponge cake 1 pt. ice cream 1 gill best brandy : ^ Mode.—A stale sponge cake is the best for this ; scoop out all the centre and fill with ice cream, turn over into an entree dish, then pour the brandy over it, and just before putting on the table light the brandy and allow to blaze. 545—COCOA PUDDING- 3 tablespoonfals Van 1 pt. milk Houten's cocoa 3 ozs. gelatine J cupful sugar. " i Mode.—Put the gelatine into about half a pint of water and boil until dissolved, then add to the milk, mix the cocoa and stir also into the milk, add the sugar, allow to boil for five minutes ; put this into a mould (previously wetted with, water), allow it to get cold, turn it out when wanted and serve with custard sauce. 546_YEENEY PUDDING. 2 eggs Weight of 2 eggs in flour Weight of 2 eggs in butter Weight of 1 egg in sugar \ teaspoonful baking soda 2 tablespoonfuls of straw- berry or raspberry jam. Mode.—Put the butter and sugar in a basin and beat to cream with your hand, break in the eggs (have the soda mixed with the flour), mix in and stir until it is smooth, add the jam and pour into a buttered mould covered with buttered paper ; have ready a saucepan with about two inches of boiling water and steam for two hours.Pastry^ Pies and Puddings. 547—APPLE SNOW. 6 apples Eind of lemon (grated) i cupful sugar Whites of 3 eggs. Mode.—Peel and boil the apples until tender, then pass them through a sieve and beat them well; when they are nearly cold add to them the sugar and the grated lemon rind, and the whites of the eggs thoroughly whisked very stiffly, beat well together, put in ice or a cool place, turn out when wanted and serve with custard or cream. 548—PLAIN PLUM PUDDING 1 lb. currants 3 eggs 1 lb. raisins (stoned) ^ cupful sugar 1 lb. flour 1 teaspoonful spice 1 lb. suet ^ cupful of treacle f lb. breadcrumbs Grlass of brandy Mode.—Wash the currants and raisins (pick out all the small sticks), lay them out in the sun on a towel to dry. Mix all the ingredients together, warm the treacle, add a little milk to it, beat into the pudding with the eggs, add the brand3% stir all well together. Dip the cloth into boiling water, flour it, then turn the pudding into it and tie up securely ; have ready a pot of boiling water, put it in and boil for six or seven hours. 549—MY TEIFLE. 12 sponge cakes Whites of 3 eggs Apricot jam 1 oz. almonds 1 pt. custard J pt. of sherry I glass brandy. Mode.—Slice each cake three times, spread each piece with apricot jam (or any other if preferred), chop up the almonds, place a layer of sponge cakes in a glass dish,Fastry, Fies and Puddings. sprinkle over them half of the almonds, then put in the remainder of the sponge cakes, press them down tightly, put the remainder of the almonds over them, then poui over them the wine and brandy; when the wine has well soaked in, pour over the custard. Whip the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth with a little sugar, heap up the whip as high as you can in leaf shapes, etc. 550—TIPSY CAKE. 1 moulded sponge or savoy cake 1 pt. sherry 2 ozs. currants 2 oz. sultanas ^ lb. Jordan almonds 1 pt of rich custard AVhites of 6 eggs. Mode.—Procure a cake that is two or three days old* cut the bottom of it level, then cut it right through in slices and on each slice put a layer of raisins, currants and almonds, which have been previously chopped up, place each slice back in its right place until the cake looks as if it had not been cut, press it down, pour over the sherry, cut the almonds into strips and stick them all over the cake, then pour around it the custard. Whip up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and decorate the cake. 551 -GEANADILLA CEEAM> The inside of 12 granadillas 1 pt. boiled custard. Mode.—Scoop out the insides of the granadillas into a glass dish, cover with the boiled custard. Of course cream would be better; but in North Queensland that it q[uite out of the question.Pastry, Pies and Puddings. lade 2 ozs. flour. 552—APPLE SOUFFLE. I doz. apples 6 eggs J pt. of milk Sugar Essence of lemon. Mode.—Peel and core the apples, slice and* put them on to boil and then mash them up. Beat up the yolks of four eggs and two whole ones, to them add the milk, beat the custard up with the apples, add the sugar and essence of lemon, put in a pie-dish and bake. When done, spread a little jam over the souffle ; cover with the whites of the eggs beaten to a sti:ff froth, and heat in a hot oven. 553_QUEEN PUDDING. J- lb. loaf of bread 4 eggs A little jam Pt. of milk Sugar Essence of vanilla. Mode.—Cut away all the crust of the bread, and put the crumbs to soak in a half a pint of milk, squeeze out half of the bread and smooth it in a pie-dish, then spread some jam over rather thickly, put on the rest of the bread and put on another thick layer of jam. Beat up two whole eggs and the yolks of the other two with the rest of the milk, add the sugar and a few drops of vanilla, pour this over the bread and bake for twent}^ minutes ; then spread some more jam over ; beat up the whites to a stiff froth, spread over the pudding. Place in a hot oven for ten minutes, taking care that it does not burn. 554—MAEMALADE PUDDING, ^ lb. breadcrumbs 2 tablespoonfuls brandy J lb. butter J lb. sugar 3 tablespoonfuls of marma- 4 eggsPastry, Pies and Puddings. Mode.—Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar and marmalade, chopped very fine, and the eggs, previously well beaten, dredge in the flour, then mix with the bread- crumbs, beating the mixture all the time ; last of all put in the brandy. Greese a mould and pour the mixture in, steam it for four or five hours. Serve with sauce made from marmalade. Half a pint of white sauce, two spoon- fuls of marmalade, a little sugar and a tablespoonful of brandy. 555—MADEIEA PUDDING. 3 eggs J teaspoonful of Elliott's Their weight in flour Queensland baking Sugar and butter powder. Mode.—Slightly warm the butter, mix it with the flour, beat up the eggs together with the sugar and add to the butter and flour, bake the mixture in small cups or dariole tins ; turnout and serve with apple or guava jelly. 556— LEMON CHEESE. 1|- ozs. French leaf gelatine J lb. sugar i teaspoonful citric acid Juice of 2 lemons 2 eggs. Mode.—Soak the gelatine until dissolved, pour over a full pint of boiling water, then add the sugar, acid and juice of the lemons, leave until nearly cold. Beat the whites of the eggs well, then whisk together until it is a stifle froth. 557— KISS PUDDING. 1 pt. milk Essence of vanilla 2 fcablespoonfuls desiccated 3 tablespoonfuls cornflour cocoanut 5 eggs J lb. sugar. Mode.—Put nearly all the milk on to boil with the sugar and a pinch of salt; mix the cornflour with the rest of ike milk and add it to the yolks of the eggs in a largeFastry, Pies and Puddings. basin, pour the hot milk over, then return to the sauce- pan with the cocoanut and the essence of vanilla, allow to boil for a few minutes, turn into a pie-dish. Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, sweeten and flavor with a little essence of lemon, spread on the pudding, and brown. 558— LEMON SNOW PUDDING. 1 pt. milk 2 tablespoonfuls of cornflour Whites of 4 or 5 eggs 3 or 4 lemons ^ cupful of sugar. Mode.—Boil the milk, then stir in the dissolved corn- flour and sugar, allow to come to a boil, take it off the fire and keep stirring until nearly cold, then add the juice of three lemons, and the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, beat them altogether until cool. Out the other lemon in slices, put it around the mould, pour in the mixture and put it on ice or in a cool place. Sauce. The yolks of the eggs ^ pt. milk A little sugar. Mode.—Boil the milk, beat up the yolks of the eggs with the sugar, pour in the boiling milk; return to the saucepan and boil. 559— OANAEY PUDDING No. 1. 4 eggs J lb. sugar lib. flour i lb. butter Lemon peel Essence of lemon. Mode.—Beat up the butter before the fire until it is nearly melted, dredge in the flour and sugar, then add the eggs well beaten, chop up the lemon peel very fine and add a few drops oi essence of lemon. Pour into a buttered mould and steam or boil for two hours.Fastry, Pies and Fuddings. 560—LEMON PUDDING- (Economical). 2 tablespoonfuls cornflour 4 ozs. sugar Yolks of 2 eggs Juice and rind of 1 lemon 1 pt. milk. Mode.— Boil tbe milk with tbe sugar and rind of the lemon for a few minutes ; take out the rind, stir in the cornflour, which has been previously dissolved in a little water, and allow to come to a boil, then stir in the yolks of the eggs (well beaten), allow to cool; whisk the whites of the eggs to a stifl froth, add to all the other ingredients ; pour into a pie-dish and bake until brown. The lemon juice can be added if wished, but care must be taken that it does not curdle. 561—PLAIN PUDDING FOE CHILDEEN. 4 ozs. butter 3 ozs. flour 3 ozs. flour A few raisins Eind of a lemon 1 ^ pt. of milk. Mode.—Beat the butter to a cream, adding the sugar, flour, lemon rind (grated) and raisins (chopped) ; beat the egg up with the milk, then add to the other ingredients; pour into a buttered mould, cover with paper and steam for two hours. Serve with or without sauce. 562—OEANGE SNOW. 1 oz. leaf gelatine A cupful of orange juice J lb. sugar Whites of 5 eggs ^ pt. boiling water. Mode.—Soak the gelatine in a little water until dis- solved, then add a pint of boiling water, orange juice and sugar ; place these in a basin, stand the basin in a sauce- pan of boiling water, and stir until the gelatine is dissolved; strain, stand aside until cool, then put in the whites of the eggs; whisk all until white and thick ; put into moulds to set. This can be served with custard sauce, flavoured with the grated rind of the orange.Pastry, Pics and Puddings. 563—GOOD FAMILY BEEAD PUDDING. J lb. bread 4 ozs. suet 2 eggs Handful of currants Handful sultanas Cupful of sugar Nutmeg Cupful of water. Mode.—Soak the bread in a little water, squeeze into a basin, then add the suet chopped up very fine, tbe currants, sultanas, sugar and a little nutmeg ; mix these altogether, then put in the eggs and flour, if not moist enough add another egg, or a little mUk; put into a pudding cloth (previously dipped into boiling water and sprinkled with flour); tie up securely and boil for three or four hours. This is a good pudding for using up scraps of bread or crusts. Serve with sweet white sauce. 564—YICTORIA PUDDING. Bread J am 4 eggs ^ pt. milk J- cupful of sugar Essence of lemon. Mode.—Butter a mould, then cut thin slices of bread and jam ; fill the mould with these lightly laid in length- ways, then beat up the eggs with the milk sugar and essence of lemon, pour over the bread, steam for two hours ; turn out and serve with custard sauce. 565—SWISS PUDDING. Swiss roll 4 eggs J pt. milk Sugar Essence of lemon. Mode.—The remains of stale Swiss roll; cut it in slices and place around the sid s of a buttered mould, then fill up the centre with pieces ; beat up the eggs with the milk, sugar and essence of lemon ; pour these into the mould, steam for one hour. Serve with sweet white sauce.Pastry, Pies and Puddings. 566-SWISS PUDDING (Another Way). 6 eggs Swiss roll Sugar Jam J- pt. milk Essence vanilla Mode.—Cut up the Swiss roll into thin slices, place in a pie-dish; beat up four eggs and the yolks of the other two, with the milk, sugar and essence of vanilla ; pour into the pie-dish and bake. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth; take out the pudding and put on a thick layer of jam, and spread the whites of the eggs over it and brown. 567—YOEKSHIEE PUDDING, 3 eggs 1 lb. flour A quart of milk Salt. Mode.—Make a nice smooth batter with the eggs (well beaten) and the flour, put in a little salt, then add the milk, a little at a time, and beat well; butter the tin pan made for the purpose ; pour in the batter, and set it under the beef while roasting. A pudding of this size will take an hour to bake. 568—YOEKSHIEE PUDDING (Another Way). • 3 eggs 4 tablespoonfuls flour Teaspoonful Elliot's Queens- A little salt land baking powder J pt. milk. Mode.—Break the eggs into a basin and beat well, dredge in the flour, baking powder and salt, then add the milk a little at a time ; beat all until smooth. Have ready a tin with a little dripping in it from the joint that is baking; pour in the batter, then put into the oven for twenty minutes or so to set it. When set place it under the joint and bake for half an hour; and when the meat is taken out the dripping can be poured off and the pud- ding served in a vegetable dish.Fasfrt/, Pies and Puddings. 569—LEMON PIE. Puff pastry 1 cup of sugar li cupfuls of breadcrumbs Eind of 2 lemons (grated) Juice of 2 lemons Yolks of 3 eggs Cupful of milk. Mode.—Line the bottom and sides of a pie-dish with puff pastry ; beat up the yolks of the eggs with the milk and sugar; add the rind (grated) and juice of two lemons ; mix with the breadcrumbs and pour into the pie-dish ; bake in a moderate oven. Beat the whites to a atiff froth and ornament the pie with it. 570—NUNS' FEITTERS. Puff paste Jam Boiling lard. Mode.—Roll out the paste and cut into rounds with a wineglass, put a spoonful of jam on half the rounds, lay the other half on top and pinch the edges of each closely together, then fry in boiling lard for ten minutes. Drain, sift some sugar over them and servo. 571—APPLE WHIP. 6 large apples 1 lemon 6 tablespoonfuls sugar 3 eggs. Mode.—Peel and slice the apples and stew them with the sugar and thin strips of lemon rind ; when cooked rub through a sieve and set aside to cool; beat the whites of the eggs and add them to the cold apple pulp, beat till quite white and stiff ; add more sugar if required ; pile in a glass dish and serve. 572—DELMONIA PUDDING. 1 qt. milk IJ tablespoonfuls of sugar 3 tablespoonfuls of cornflour Essence Jam.Pastry^ Pies and Picddings. Mode.—Put the milk on the fire in a nice clean saucepan ; when it comes to the boil stir in the cornflour mixed with a little cold milk ; boil for a few minutes, then take off the fire and stir in the sugar, the beaten yolks of the eggs, and a few drops of any essence that may be preferred ; pour into a buttered pie-dish and bake for an hour; spread the top with jam (apricot or any other acid jam being as suitable). Have the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, tlien sweeten and flavour with the same essence as used in the pudding ; pile this meringue on top and serve. 573—TIPSY PUDDING. 4 small sponge cakes 1 wineglassful of sherry 1 pt. of milk Jam 5 eggs Sugar Essence of vanilla. Mode.—Put the sponge cakes in a pie-dish, having previously cut them in half, and spread over them a layer of any nice jam ; pour the wine over them and let soak for an hour. Make a custard of three eggs and milk, sweeten to taste, add the essence and pour over the cakes ; bake in a very moderate oven till set, then beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth ; sweeten and flavour with vanilla, place roughly on the pudding to give it a rocky appearance, return the dish to the oven, slightly tip the meringue with brown; serve hot or cold. 574_CASTLE PUDDINGS. Sponge cake Jam Cream or custard Clear wine sauce Sugar. Mode.—Upe small sponge cakes or slices of cakes cut in small thin pieces; spread each with any jam preferred. Rinse out some small moulds with cold water ; place the cake in the moulds, pour over some clear wine sauce made thick enough to set when cold ; put the moulds away onPastry, Fies and Pitddings ice or in a cold place till set; turn out, place a spoonful of jam on each; serve with whipped or plain cream or custard. 575—LITTLE CASTLE PUDDINGS. 3 eggs 6 ozs. flour 6 ozs. butter 6 ozs. powdered sugar Nutmeg Lemon Wine sauce 1 teaspoonfulElliot's Queens- baking powder. Mode.—"Beat the butter and sugar to cream, sift the flour and baking powder ; beat the whites of the eggs and yolks separately, then together, and add to the butter and sugar; sift in the flour gradually ; add to the whole a little grated lemon rind and nutmeg; lightly butter six cup moulds ; pour in sufficient mixture to two-thirds fill the moulds, and bake from fifteen to thirty minutes ; turn out and serve with wine sauce or custard. 576—OEANGE SOUFFLE. 1 pt. milk 2 oranges Cornflour 3 eggs Sugar to taste. Mode.—Boil the milk and stir in sufficient cornflour (mixed with a little cold milk) to make it the consistency of thick cream ; add to this the grated rind of two oranges and juice of one, then the beaten yolks of the eggs; sweeten to taste, and mix all thoroughly together ; have ready a buttered pie-dish; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and add to the other ingredients ; turn into a pie-dish and place in the oven, bake for twenty or thirty minutes ; sprinkle with sugar and serve immediately. 577_GOLDEN PUDDING, i lb. flour i lb. breadcrumbs \ lb. marmalade i lb. suet \ lb. sugar 4 eggs J pt. of milk.Tastry, Pies and Puddings. Mode.—Mix tlie flour with, the breadcrumbs thor*- oughly ; shred the suet very finely, and mix well with the flour and breadcrumbs ; add to this the sugar, then the marmalade; beat the eggs with the milk and mix well with the other ingredients. Fill a buttered basin or mould with the mixture, tie down with a pudding cloth and plunge into a saucepan of quickly boiling water; boil for two and a half hours ; Serve with marmalade sauce. 578— ALMOND PUDDINGS. ^ pt. milk 6 ozs. breadcrumbs Essence of almonds 2 doz. almonds 1 oz. butter 2 eggs Sugar to taste. Mode.—Grate very fine dry breadcrumbs, or if stale sponge cake is available use that; blanch and chop the almonds ; heat the milk and butter, and pour it over the bread or cake crumbs; cover over the dish and let stand a few minutes ; then beat in the sugar, chopped almonds, two or three drops of essence of almonds, and lastly, the eggs well beaten ; beat all well together. Brush out some little cup moulds with dissolved butter, half fill with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen or twenty minutes; turn on to a glass dish, sprinkle with white or pink sugar, and serve with custards fiavoured with almond or a little wine poured over each pudding. 579— MAGGIE^S PUDDING. 1 cup breadcrumbs 1 cup flour 2 eggs li cups of currants I cup of sugar 1 nutmeg 1 teaspoonful carbonate of 1 lemon soda 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 1 cup boiling milk or water. Mode.—Sift the flour and mix with the breadcrumbs, currants (which must be well cleaned and dried) and the sugar; add tbe eggs (previously well beaten), the gratedPastry, Pics and Puddings. lemon rind and grated nutmeg. Mix the butter and carbonate of soda with, the hot milk and add to the other ingredients, stirring quickly, then turn into a buttered basin or mould, tie down with a cloth and plunge into a saucepan of boiling water ; boil for three hours. Serve with sweet sauce or custard. 580--BACHELORS' PUDDING. 1 egg Weight of 1 egg in butter, 1 tablespoonful of milk breadcrumbs and flour Teaspoonful carbonate of soda Apricot jam. Mode—Slightly melt the butter and beat the egg; mix with the breadcrumbs flour and jam ; slightly warm the milk and dissolve in it the carbonate of soda ; stir in the previous ingredients quickly. Have ready a small buttered basin and turn the mixture in ; tie down tightly with a cloth (be sure the basin is quite full or the water will get in), then plunge into a saucepan of boiling water and boil for an hour and a half. Serve with clear apricot sauce. 58l_BEIGNETS SOUFFLE. 1 pt. water 1 oz. butter 3 ozs. sugar 1 lemon 3 or 4 eggs Flour Salt Jelly or Jam. Mode.—Put the water in a saucepan with a pinch of salt, the butter, sugar, and plenty of grated lemon rind ; when the water boils, stir in quickly enough flour to make it a smooth, thick paste, take it off the fire and allow it to stand for ten minutes ; then beat in the eggs, reser- ving the whites of two. Let the mixture stand an hour or two, then beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, beat lightly into the other ingredients. Have ready some very hot frying tat, drop in pieces of the mixture about the size of a walnut from a spoon and fry a nice brown ; drain on paper for a min-te; make an incision in each andPastryf Pies and Puddings. insert a spoonful of jam or jelly ; pile high, on a glass dish and sprinkle with icing sugar and serve. If preferred, lemon and sugar may be served with these puddings instead of jam. 582—INDIAN FEITTEES. 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 4 eggs Boiling water Jam. Mode.—Sift the flour into a basin, and pour in suflieient boiling water to make it into a stiff paste, well stirring and beating all the time ; when thoroughly mixed and smooth put on one side to cool; then break in (without previously beating) the yolks of the four eggs and the whites of two ; have ready some very hot fat, drop the mixture in by spoonfuls, fry a nice brown and serve with lemon and sugar, or jam. 583—LEMON SAGO. 1 cup of sago 1 cup of sugar 2 lemons 4 cups water 3 tablespoonfuls of treacle. Mode.—Boil the sago in the water till it is clear ; add the sugar and treacle, and grated rind and juice of the lemons ; boil all well together for a minute or two ; have some small moulds or one large one rinsed out in cold water, fill with the sago and put away until cold and set: turn into a glass dish and serve with cream and sugar. 584—DUTCH FLUMMERY. \ lb. packet of gelatine 3 lemons \ pt. white wine \\ pts. cold water 6 eggs \ lb. loaf sugar. Mode.—Soak the gelatine in the cold water for twenty minutes, then put it into a saucepan with the thinly pared rind of the lemons ; stir until the gelatine is quite dissolved; beat the yolks of the eggs withPastry, Pies and Puddings, the wine and juice of the lemons ; add the sugar and mix all well together; boil for one minute, strain; stir occasionally until cold; then put away in moulds in a cold place to set. 585—SOLID SYLLABUB. \ lb. packet gelatine f pt. cold water 2 lemons \ pt. sherry 6 ozs. loaf sugar 1 pt. cream. Mode.— Soak the gelatine in the water, add the juice and rind of the lemons, taking care to cut the rind very thinly; also add the sherry and the loaf sugar; boil all together for two or three minutes, pour into it the cream, stirring quickly ; boil five minutes, strain, and pour into a mould that has been rinsed out in cold water ; when set turn out. 586—SPONGE SANDWICHES. 3 eggs 1 pt. of milk Sugar Small sponge cakes Yanilla Preserve. Mode—Cut the sponge cakes in half ; soak them in the eggs and milk ( which have been previously well beaten together, flavoured and sweetened) until soft; fry a light brown ; put the preserve between, arrange on a dish ; sprinkle with sugar and serve. Slices of bread may be substituted for sponge cake. 587—MULBEREY CREAM TART Puff pastry 1 qt. mulberries \ pt. cream or custard Sugar. Mode.—Line a deep tart tin with puff paste, fill with mulberries, sprinkle generously with sugar, cover with pastry, and ornament the edge.prettily; brush over with beaten egg and bake for an hour or a little longer, according to the size of the pie. Cut the centre out and pPastry, Pies and Puddings, make a hole in tlie middle of the pie ; fill this with whipped cream, sweetened and flavoured, or with a rich custard. Serve cold. 588— APEICOT JELLY. 1 tin of apricots 1 pt. jelly i pt. boiled custard 2 ozs. gelatine Lemon Sugar. Mode.—Make a pint of stiff jelly; rinse out a nice mould in cold water; pour into it a little jell}^ and when firm place the best apricots in a circle or any other design in the mould, pouring in a little more jelly to set them ; when that is firm decorate the sides of the mould with jelly; if a round or oval mould, this is done by pouring the jelly into the mould, and then turning it slowly round on the ice till the mould is coated ; if the mould is square do one side at a time and let it set. Bub the remainder of the apricots through a sieve, add a little lemon and sweeten with sugar; add the custard ; have the gelatine melted, and strain in stirring all the time ; pour into the decorated mould and let it set; when stiff enough to bear the weight fill up the mould with melted (but not warm) jelly ; leave on ice or in a cold place till required, then turn out and decorate with chopped jelly round. 589— baked" apples. 6 or 8 apples 2 eggs Sugar Eed jelly Lemon. Mode. —Peel and core the apples, place in a deep dish with a spoonful of water to prevent them from burning; fill the centres with sugar, adding a little grated lemon rind to each ; bake slowly until quite soft when tested with a straw or skewer, whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff meringue, sweeten and flavour with lemon ; arrange the apples in a glass dish ; place a spoonful of the merin- gue on top, and dot each with tiny pieces of red currant, or any Obfcher red jelly. Serve with boiled custard for which the two yolks of the eggs may be used.Fastry, Pies and Puddings. 590—OEANGE PIE. Puff pastry 3 oranges 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar 4 eggs 1 cup of milk. Mode.—Line ttie edges of a pie-dish prettily with the pastry, taking care it does not reach more than a quarter way down the sides, peel and quarter the oranges, remov- ing the pith and pips, beat the yolks of the eggs and sugar together, add a little grated orange rind and the milk, drop in the quarters, pour into the pie-dish (which must be greased and not too large for the quantity of mixture), stir well and set in a moderate oven, directly the pastry is brown (this should be brushed over with beaten egg to glaze it), place in the coolest part of the oven until the mixture is set. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, sweeten and flavor with orange juice, pile high on the top of the pie, place in the oven till brown. Serve hot or cold. 591—CANAEY PUDDING No, 2.. 3 eggs 5 ozs. of sugar 4 ozs. flour 5 ozs of butter 1 lemon. Mode.—Beat the butter and sugar together, add some grated lemon rind, gradually stir in the flour ; beat the eggs well, add these to the other ingredients, stirring all well until thoroughly blended, fill a well buttered basin or mould, boil for two hours, turn out and serve with jam sauce. 592—OEANGE PUDDING. 2 oranges 2 ozs. sugar 1 lemon 2 eggs 3 stale sponge cakes 1 tablespoonful of cornflour i pt. of milk 1 tablespoonful of butter.Pastry, Pies and Puddings. Mode.—Pour the milk on the cakes, beat the eggs and sugar together thoroughly, melt the butter and pour on the cakes, mix the cornflour with the eggs and sugar and stir in; grate the rind of the oranges and lemon, add with the juice (strained) to the other ingredients, pour into a buttered mould or basin, boil an hour and serve with custard or clear sauce, flavored with orange or wine. 593_EOSELLA PIE. 2 lbs. rosellas 2 apples Puff paste 1 large cupful of sugar Mode.—Shell the rosellas and put into a saucepan with a little water, the apples cut up and the sugar, allow it to simmer gently for half an hour. Put into a pie-dish and cover with puff paste ; bake for fifteen to twenty minutes. 594_APPLE FPITTEES. 4 apples Batter 1 tablespoonful of brandy Sugar. Mode.—Pare and core the apples, cut them in slices of about a quarter of an inch thick, sprinkle with sugar and pour the brandy over them, and set them aside for half an hour. Dip each piece of apple into the batter and fry in boiling fat for five or six minutes Pineapple, oranges, or other fruits can be served the same way. 595-BEEAD FEITTERS. 2 eggs i pt. milk Sufficient flour to make a 1 oz. of butter thick batter Pinch of salt Thin slices of stale bread J am.Pastrij, Fies and Puddings. Mode.—Beat up the eggs and stir them into the milk, dissolve the butter over a slow fire and stir by degrees into the milk and egg, add the salt and dredge in the flour until it is a thick smooth paste. Cut very thin slices of bread about three inches squares, spread every alternate piece with jam, and place another piece on top. Dip each sandwich into the batter and fry in boiling fat. Sprinkle with sugar and serve very hot. 596—BEEAD FEITTEES (Another way). 12 pieces of bread (about 2 eggs Mode.—Slice the bread about a quarter of an inch thick, spread every alternate piece with jam, aud then lay on the other piece. Make a batter of the egg and flour, add the sugar, dip each sandwich in and put into the boiling oil or dripping and fry for five minutes. Mode. Beat the eggs and stir into the milk ; add the pinch of salt and suflicient flour to make a smooth batter. Butter a frying-pan and pour in about a quarter of the mixture, loosen with a knife and turn it by tossing it from the pan, when nicely browned on both sides roll and place on a plate, sprinkle with sugar and a little nutmeg. Serve with slices of lemon. Cook the remainder the same way. Jam two inches square) 2 tablespoonfuls flour 1 teaspoonful of sugar Oil or dripping. 3 eggs Suflicient flour to make a batter 598—MINCE PIES Good puiff paste Mince meat from recipe No. 559.Pastry, Fies and Piidd'mgs. Mode.—Make some good puff paste from recipe No. 516. Boll it out to thickness of half an inch, cover some well greased patty pans, fill them with the mincemeat, cover with paste and cut it off all round the tin, nip the pastes close together. Put the pies in a brisk oven and bake for twenty-five minutes. Brush them over with the white of an egg, well beaten and sprinkle with sugar and put them in the oven for a minute or two longer to dry the egg. Eemove them from the tins and serve on a d'oyley. 599—MINCEMEAT. J lb. raisins 1^ lbs. suet (beef) ^ lb. ox tongue 1 lb. sugar 2 ozs. lemon peel 3 ozs. orange pee] 1 lb. apples Rind of 1 lemon Juice of 1 lemon i pt. brandy 4 lb. lean beef J nutmeg. Mode.—Stone and cut the raisins once or twice across, wash and pick the currants free from stalks and grit, mince the beef, suet and tongue, slice the lemon and orange peel, grate the nutmeg, peel, core and mince the apples, grate the lemon peel and strain the juice, when all the ingredients are prepared, mix them well together, adding the brandy when everything else is well blended; press into a jar, carefully exclude the air, and the mince- meat will be ready for use in fourteen days. 600—PEACH TRIFLE. 1 sponge cake 1 glass sherry 1 tin peaches 1 pt. custard Whites of 4 eggs. Mode.—A stale sponge cake is the best for this. Cut it in slices and between each slice put some of the peaches, press them together again the shape of the cake, pour the sherry over it. Make the custard, and when cold, pour over also ; beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and ornament the top of the cake with it.Fastry, Pies and Puddings. 601— STEWED QUINCES. 6 quinces 2 cupfuls of sugar 1 cupful of water. Mode.—Pick and core the quinces, cut into quarters, put them into a saucepan with the sugar and water and allow them to simmer for two or three hours. Tie the cores up in a small piece of muslin and boil with them, when they are a nice pink color take out the muslin bag, and stand the quinces aside to cool. Serve with boiled rice. If you place a piece of coarse brown paper over them, then close the lid tightly down, it makes them a brighter color. 602— QUINCE SOUFFLE, 1 pt. stewed quinces 1 teaspoonful of cornflour 4 eggs 1 tablespoonful of sugar ^ a cup of milk. Mode.—Beat the yolks of the eggs well with the cornflour, milk and sugar, beat separately the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and add to the other ingredients, mix these with the stewed quinces and place in a pie-dish. Beat up the whites of the other two eggs to a stiff froth and ornament the top. Bake for fifteen to twenty minutes. 603—BOLEES. 2 lbs. bakers dough 1 lb. buttei' J lb. lemon peel 1 lb. sugar J doz. eggs. Mode.—Beat the eggs, butter and sugar well together, mix together with the dough and lemon peel. Butter some patt}^ tins, fill with the mixture and bake in a quick oven. When done make a syrup of brown sugar, simmer until it becomes thick and pour over the holers while hot.Pastry, Pies and Puddings. 604—LEMON PIE. \ lb. butter 4 eggs Rind and juice of 1 lemon. Mode,—Warm the butter and mix it with, the sugar, the eggs well beaten, grated rind and the juice of the lemon. Beat thoroughly with a spoon and put into a shallow pie-dish lined with pufE paste, bake for forty minutes. 605—CHANDOS PUDDING. 1 cupful of raisins 1 cupful of currants 1^ cupfuls of breadcrumbs f cupful of hot milk Lemon peel 1 teaspoonful of spice 1^ cupfuls of flour J cupful of milk 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda 1 tablespoonful of dripping 1 cupful sugar. Mode.—Stone the raisins and mix with the other ingredients, then pour in the cold milk and stir well, and last, the hot miik. Mix these well and put into a buttered mould, tie up securely and boil or steam for three hours. 606—DEYONSHIEE DUMPLINGS. 6 large baking apples 1 tablespoonful of ground Sugar ginger Puff paste. Mode.—Scoop out the cores of the apples and peel' fill the centres with sugar (into which the ginger has been mixed). Cover with a light puff jjaste and bake in a hot oven. 607—GERMAN TOAST. 6 slices bread Ground cinnamon 2 eggs Sugar 3 tablespoonfuls of flour Boiling dripping.Fastry, Ties and Puddings.. Mode.—Make a nice light batter, cut the bread into slices, not too thick, and fry in boiling dripping until a nice light brown, then cover with the ground cinnamon and sugar and serve hot. This is very nice for children's breakfasts. 608— COMPOTE OF PINEAPPLE. 1 pineapple 6 cloves 1 cupful of sugar 4 tablespoonfuls of water Mode.—Peel and slice the pineapple into slices of about half an inch thick. Put the sugar and water into a saucepan and when boiling jDut in the slices of pineapple and cloves. Allow it to simmer gently for half an hour. Stand aside until cold, serve with boiled rice. 609— MOTZO PUDDING (Jewish). 2 eggs 2 tablespoonfuls meal J lb. chopped suet 2 motzos (soaked) 2 ozs. brown sugar ^ lb. dried fruit J teaspoonful cinnamon or other spices. Mode.—Squeeze the motzos very dry and prepare the fruit carefully, chop the suet, add wdth all the other dry ingredients and stir well together. Beat the eggs well, pour them in and mix thoroughly, put in a buttered pie- dish or basin and bake about half an hour, or steam or boil for three or four hours. A little rum is a great im- provement. 610—MOTZO PANCAKES (Jewish). 1 teaspoonful motzo meal 1 pt. milk 2 eggs 3 ozs. brown sugar Rind of lemon (chopped finely) 1 tablespoonful of rum. Mode.—Put the meal into a basin with the sugar, beat the eggs well and mix altogether into a batter, add the milk, lemon peel and rum. Put a small piece ofPastryy Pies and Puddings. butter into a small frying-pan and ^owa in about half of the mixture (when the butter is bubbling), fry on one side, turn it over and cook a nice brown on the other. Serve with slices of lemon. 611— INDIAN PUDDING. 4 eggs 4 ozs. butter 1 small sponge cake 2 ozs. sugar 2 tablespoonfuls desiccated A few drops essence vanilla cocoanut Puff paste. Mode.—Beat the eggs with the butter and sponge cake crumbled, boil the cocoanut and sugar with the milk for ten minutes, let it get cool, then add to the eggs, beat well, and pour into a dish lined with puff paste; bake for three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. 612— PEUNE PUDDING. 2 lbs. of puff paste 1 lb. prunes 4 ozs. lemon peel Dessertspoonful spice Large cup of sugar 2 ozs. almonds 1 pt. water. Mode.—Place the paste (taken from recipe No. 517) in a large cake tin ; have the prunes well soaked in water, take them out and place them on the pastry, add the water, lemon peel, almonds, spice and sugar together, pour on to the prunes and bake in a hot oven for two hours. When done dish it up on large dinner dish.. 613—APEICOT SPONGE (Eggs on Toast). Sponge cake Pt. of cream Tin of preserved apricots A little sugar A little vanilla. Mode—Make sponge cake from recipe No. 692 and cut same in squares or any shape to respresent toast, then place one half of the apricots downwards and surround if with well whipped cream. First sweeten the cream and add the essence to it.Pastryy Pies and Puddings. 614—BOEDEAUX PUDDING. J lb. prunes 1 gill claret 1 gill water 2 ozs. sweet almonds 3 or 4 bitter almonds 6 ozs. ratafias 3 eggs Custard. Mode.—Soak tbe prunes, then boil them in the claret diluted with the water; when they are quite tender stone them; blanch the almonds and chop finely; put a layer of prunes in a cake mould about five inches in diameter and three inches high ; on top of the prunes sprinkle half of the chopped almonds, and over them put a layer of ratafias ; then repeat adding the rest of the prunes, more almonds and the rest of the ratafias; press them well down, and then the mould being about three parts full pour on the top the eggs beaten thoroughly, with a little sugar; cover the mould with buttered paper and steam it in boiling water for about three-quarters of an hour; turn it out carefully ; serve hot with custard. 615—PUDDING A LA PAEI8IENNE. 1 oz. butter 1 oz. flour 2 ozs. sugar If gills milk 3 eggs Essence of vanilla 4 ozs. assorted fruits Yolks of 2 eggs 2 tablespoonfuls sherry. Mode.—Dissolve the butter in a stewpan ; mix in one ounce of the sugar, flour, and one gill milk; stir over the fire until boiling ; cover with the lid and let it stand on a warm part of the stove for five minutes, then remove it to the table and stir in lightly and thoroughly the yolks and whites of three eggs (the whites must be beaten separately); now add the essence and the assorted fruits cut into small pieces; put the pudding into a buttered plain mould, covered with a greased paper, and steam for three- quarters of an hour. Serve with sauce made as follows : —Sauce—The yolks of the two eggs put in a stewpan with the sugar, the three-quarters of a gill of milk and the sherry; whisk over the &:e till thick and frothy.Pastry, Pies and Puddings. 616—YEEMICELLI POEEIDQE. 1 qt. milk 3 ozs. vermicelli Salt Sugar 1 egg. Mode.—Bring the milk to the boil, shake in the ver- micelli, stirring until all is mixed; give it half an hour's cooking with frequent stirring ; add a pinch of salt; turn on to small hot plates ; sift sugar over and eat with hot or cold milk. If an egg be added a still greater delicacy is obtained.JELLIES AND CREAMS. hi hot weather it might he found advisable to use douhle the amount of gelatine for any of these jellies or creams. 617—8TEAWBEEEY CREAM. 1 tin of Morton's strawberries Juice of 2 lemons in syrup or strawberry i pt. of milk jam 1 oz. isinglass 1 tablespoonful of sugar ^ pt. water. Mode.—Put the strawberries into a saucepan with the sugar and juice of the lemons ; stir until the sugar is dissolved, then add the half pint of milk, and allow it to come to boiling point; strain through a hair sieve; have ready the isinglass dissolved in the half pint of water ; put all into a large basin and whisk well together until just beginning to set. Pour into a wetted mould and stand in ice or in a cool place until required. 618—MACAROON CREAM. 1 pt. milk Jordan almonds 3 eggs (yolks) 1 doz. macaroons 1 oz. gelatine 1 glass sherry. Mode.—Soak the gelatine in a little milk for half an hour; add the grated rind of a lemon to the pint of milk ; sweeten to taste ; place it over the fire to heat, but do not let it boil; beat up the yolks of the eggs, and pour the milk through a strainer on to them ; add the gelatine gradually while stirring, and cook slowly until the gelatine is dissolved, then pour it into a basin and cool. Dip a mould into cold water, ornament with the almonds (split) ; pour a little of the custard in, then put in a layer of macaroons soaked in sherry, another layer of custard, and so on until the dish is filled ; put on ice to set; turn out carefully and serve. ., ,Jellies and Cream,. 619—CLAEET JELLY. 2 ozs. leaf gelatine 1 pt. boiling water A few cloves 1 pt. claret lemons Juice of 2 lemons ^ lb. sugar. Thinly peeled rind of 2 Mode.—Put the cloves and rind of the lemons into a pint of boiling water; allow them to simmer for half an hour, then add the juice of the lemons, sugar, claret, and the shell and white of an egg ; allow them to remain near the fire until the gelatine is dissolved. Decorate a wetted mould with some crystalised fruits; strain the jelly and fill the mould with it; allow to remain on ice until required. Mode.—Chop up the calf's feet and put them on to boil slowly for five hours (without salt), then strain, and it is ready to make any jelly you like. Aspic or wine jelly recipes follow. Mode.—Strain all the liquor from the calf's feet: add half a cupful of sugar, half a pint of wine, juice of one lemon and the thinly peeled rind of half, half a teaspoon- ful citric acid ; boil all for ten minutes ; colour with a few drops of cochineal or saffron; strain through a tea towel; 4 calf's feet 620—CALF'S FOOT JELLY. 1 qt. water. 621—WINE JELLY. put into wetted moulds to set. 622—ASPIC JELLY. 2 carrots 1 turnip 6 cloves 2 lbs. gravy beef 2 qts. water 6 whole peppers Teaspoonful vinegar Tablespoonful sherry Small bunch of sweet herbs 1 onion Salt.Jellies and Creams. Mode.—Cut up the meat into small pieces, put on in two quarts of water with all the other ingredients and allow it to boil for four hours, should you have the calf's feet jelly from previous recipe you can strain the above into it, then put it into the saucepan with a small pinch of citric acid and strain it through a tea towel. If you don't think the calf's feet sufficient to stiffen the jelly add two ounces gelatine, if no calf's feet put four ounces of leaf gelatine to each quart of water in summer and three in winter. 623—SWEET OMELETTE. 6 eggs 4 ozs. butter 2 ozs. sifted sugar. Mode.—Break the eggs into a basin, the whites separate from the yolks ; whisk them each well, add the sugar to the yolks, then whisk them together, put in half the butter in small pieces and beat up with the eggs. The remainder of the butter put into a frying-pan, when it begins to bubble pour in the eggs, etc. Keep stirring them until they begin to set, then turn the edges of the omelette to make it oval shaped and finish cooking ; to brown the top hold the pan before the fire or uso a salamander, turn it out carefully into a very hot dish. Sprinkle with sugar aud serve at once, or pour over it a little rum and set it alight just before sending to the table. 624 -BANANA CEEAM. 6 bananas Sugar to taste 1 lemon ^ pt. custard. Mode.— Skin the fruit and cut into slices ; place in a glass dish; squeeze the lemon over it and a little sugar; pour over them the boiled custard. Of course, where cream is obtainable, it is much nicer, but in North Queens- land it is rarely seen. 625—THE PEICKLY PEAE. The prickly pear is a fruit seldom used here, although if properly treated is most delicious; it has the richestJellies and Creams. color of any of our native fruits, for jam or jelly it needs no water whatever. To each pound of fruit allow half a pound of sugar and juice of two lemons, a little of the rind also. If required for jam you must be most careful to see that all the prickles are removed, otherwise it may be un- pleasant to get one of those nasty little things in your mouth ; for jelly, of course, it has all to be strained, so should you leave a few in it would not be so serious. 626—PEIOKLY PEAE JELLY. 1 qt. prickly pears 1 cupful sugar 2 lemons 3 ozs. gelatine 1 qt. water 2 glasses sherry. Mode.—Get the prickly pears, rub them in sand or sawdust with your boot or a piece of wood until all the prickles are removed, then cut them into four pieces, squeeze the juice of the two lemons in with them, put them into the saucepan with the water, sugar and lemon juice, allow them to boil for two hours, should they re- quire more lemon juice put in the juice of another half, then strain, put back into a saucepan and allow it to boil with the gelatine and sherry until the gelatine is dissolved, strain and put into wetted moulds, place on the ice until set. 627—LEMON JELLY. 1 qt. of water 6 cloves Juice of 12 lemons Bind of 3 lemons ^ a pt. of sherry 4 ozs. leaf gelatine lbs. sugar About a pinch of saffron. Mode.—Peel three of the lemons, being careful not to take any of the white of the rind, put it into a saucepan with the juice of the lemons, cloves, sugar, saffron; allow it to boil, then put in the gelatine, boil until it is dissolved, then add the sherry, the whites and shells of two eggs and half a teaspoonful citric acid. Strain through a tea towel tied to the legs of a chair, or a jelly bag. The saffronJellies and Creams. Whites of 2 e^srs custard. colors it nicely. Fill your mouldSj which you have pro- perly rinsed in cold water. 628—LEMON JELLY (Another way). 2 ozs. gelatine Giass liqueur curacoa 1 qt. water 1 cupful sugar Juice of 6 lemons i stick cinnamon 1 pt. sherry 7 cloves Whites of 3 eggs Shells of 2 eggs. Mode.—Put the gelatine into a basin with the water and allow it to soak for an hour, then turn it into a sauce- pan with all the other ingredients but the shells of the eggs ; put it on a slow fire and stir it all the time until just boiling ; throw in the shell of the eggs and allow it to simmer for one minute only, if it boils over the jelly is never so good; strain it through a towel tied to a chair or a felt jelly bag, put it into moulds, which have previously been dipped in water. Stand in ice until set. 629~COFFEE JELLY. 1J pts. of water 1 oz. gelatine leaf 2 ozs. coffee 3 ozs. white sugar. Mode.— Soak the gelatine in half a pint of boiling water. Pour one pint of boiling water over the coffee, allow it to stand until cold and clear, carefully take off the liquor, mix it with the gelatine and sugar and stir until it is dissolved, pour into a clean mould, set in ice to cool. "When set, turn out and serve with whipped cream. This makes a pleasant change and has the advantage of being rather uncommon 630—MULBEEEY SNOW OEEAM. About 1 pt. mulberries i a cupful of sugar Juice of 1 lemon a pt. of cream or boiledJellies and Creams. Mode.—Put the mulberries into an enamelled stew- pan with the sugar and juice of the lemon, allow them to stew for half an hour very gently. Put into a glass dish to cool. Whip the cream to a sti:ff froth with the whites of two eggs and a little sugar. As the cream becomes stiff, set it on the fruit and serve at once. If cream is not procurable boiled custard can be used instead. 631— ROSELLA CREAM. ^ an oz. of gelatine leaf Rosella or raspberry jelly 1 pt. milk Sugar Essence of vanilla 3 eggs. Mode.—Put the gelatine with the milk into a stew- pan, let it stand for an hour, then place it on the stove and stir until dissolved, add sugar to taste and a few drops of vanilla. While still very hot. stir in the beaten yolks of three eggs and allow to boil. When nearly cold add the whites of the eggs well beaten. Pour into small wet moulds, when set turn out to serve, and scatter white sugar rubbed into cochineal over, and on the top of each mould place a small piece of rosella jelly (recipe given elsewhere). 632— RHUBARB JELLY. 2 ozs. leaf gelatine 1^ qt. of water ^ lb. white sugar Rind of 1 lemon 2 lbs. rhubarb Whites and shells of 8 eggs. Mode.—Put the gelatine into a basin with half a pint of boiling water, put the rhubarb (cut into small pieces), into a saucepan with one quart of water and the thin rind of one lemon, leave it to get thoroughly stewed, but not long enough for the juice to get thick, strain the juice and add it to the gelatine aud sugar, now put in the other half pint of water. Put in the whites and shells of the eggs, whisk all quickly on the fire, pass through a jelly bag or tea towel and pour into wet moulds, put in a cool place to set.Jellies and Creams. 633—EHUBAEB MEEINGUE. The rhubarb left from the previous recipe. The yolks of the eggs left 1 cupful of sugar Teaspoonful of flour. Mode.—Whip up the rhubarb until light with an egg beater, add to it the sugar, flour and the yolks of the three eggs, bake in an open crust; after taking from the oven, frost it. 634—OEANGE CEEAM. 1 pt. of cream or 1 tin cream ^ lb. of white sugar 2 oranges 2 ozs. of isinglass 1 lemon A few drops of cochineal Essence of almonds ^ glass curacoa. Mode.—Beat the cream to a stiff froth, add to it the sugar, juice of the oranges and lemon, mix gently together, add the curacoa ; dissolve the isinglass in a gill of boiling water, stir it lightly into the cream. Color a little of the cream with a few drops of the cochineal, and flavor it with a drop of the essence of almonds, turn it into the top of the mould and stand it in the ice ; as soon as it is set turn in the white cream and let it set. When wanted for the table, dip the mould in warm water and wipe the out- side with a dry cloth, turn it on a dish, garnish with slices of oranges. 635—SPONGE SOUFFLE. 3 eggs A little sugar 6 sponge cakes I pt. brandy or sherry ^ pt. milk. Mode.—Place the sponge cakes in a small pie-dish, pour over them the brandy or sherr}^ put into a moderate oven until hot, beat up the yolks of the eggs with milk and a little sugar, pour also over the cakes. Beat up the whites to a stiff froth, place over the other and bake for a quarter of an hour in a slow oven.Jellies and Creams. 5 cups sugar. 636—ANGELS' FOOD. 1 oz. leaf gelatine 3 eggs 1 qt. milk 1 cupful of sugar Juice of 1 lemon A few drops of vanilla. Mode.—Dissolve the gelatine in the milk, add to it the well beaten yolks of the eggs, sugar and lemon juice, let all just come to a boil, when nearly cold, stir in the whites of the eggs which should have been beaten to a stiff froth, flavour with a little vanilla ; put it in a shape ^ and place on ice until set, then serve in a glass dish with boiled custard. 637—CREAM ALL THE YEAR ROUND. 1 tin condensed milk An equal quantity warm Saltspoonful of salt water. Mode.—Whip the condensed milk and the warm water in which the salt has been dissolved, together, when smoothly amalgamated allow it to stand a moment or two to blend, then stir in as much cold water as warm. Equal quantities milk, warm and cold water. 638—GRANADILLA JELLY. 4 granadillas 4 lemons 5 cups of sugar. Mode.—Peel the lemons, being very careful to take all the white off and the seeds out, slice them, cut the granadillas in slices^ using every particle of them, and place them all in a stewpan with the sugar and let boil about half an hour, or until it will jelly on a saucer, boil longer if required, put the contents into a jelly bag and strain. This is very good for bottling for table use. 639—GRANADILLA JELLY (Another way). 4 grannadillas 4 lemonsJellies and Creams. Mode.—Peel the lemons, take all the whites of them and seeds, slice them; cut the granadillas in slices, using every particle of them and place in a stewpan, cover with water and let boil for four hours ; take off the fire and strain, then place the juice in a stewpan with the sugar and let boil till it will jelly on a saucer; about fifty minutes will be enough, longer if required. Put contents into a flannel or felt bag and hang on a stand and it will strain itself. 640—BANANA TPIFLE. 4 large bananas Cornflour Savoy biscuits 1 egg f pt. milk Sugar Vanilla Mode.—Slice the bananas and place them in layers in a glass dish with savoy sponge biscuits split in two, pour over them the milk boiled and thickened with the corn- flour to the consistency of thick custard, add to it the beaten yolk of the egg, sugar to taste, and a few drops of vanilla ; let it stand until cold and ready to serve, then place on the top some whipped cream or beaten white of egg sweetened with sugar, 641—TUTTI FEUITTI CPEAM. 1 pt. lemon jelly 1 glass maraschino 1 pt. mixed fruit—pine- 1 pt. milk apple, pawpaw, passion- J oz. leaf gelatine fruit, apple, banana ^ cupful of sugar. Mode.—Wet the moulds, put them in ice and keep putting a little jelly around the edges until it is cased. Cut up the fruit into very small pieces; boil the milk with the maraschino, sugar and gelatine, allow it to get cool but not set; now fill up the centre of four moulds with the fruit mixed with the milk, cover them with ice and coarse salt mixed together for two hours ; dip the moulds quickly into warm water, then turn out on iced dishes.Jellies and Creams. 642—PINEAPPLE JELLY. 1 pt. lemon jelly 1 cupful Skinner's pine- 1 glass sherry apple pulp Slices pineapple. Mode.—Pound the pulp with a little sugar until very tine beat the jelly with a whisk until it has a creamy appearance ; add to it the pineapple pulp, continue to stir with the whisk until it begins to set, then pour in wetted moulds which may be decorated with pieces of pineapple. Keep on the ice for one or two hours, turn out and serve. 643—PINEAPPLE JELLY (Another way). Take two pineapples, slice, pound them in a mortar, add six ounces sugar and half a pint of water; boil the whole for a quarter of an hour, then strain ; add the juice of a lemon and a pint of clarified jelly, make with two ounces gelatine, pour into a mould and when set turn it out by dipping the mould in warm water. Pieces of pine- apple may be put in the jelly. 644—LEMON CEEAM. IJ pts. of milk Glass eherry 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar 1 liqueur glass curacoa 1 oz. leaf gelatine 4 yolks of eggs. 1 lemon. Mode.—Pare the rind of the lemon very finely, taking great care not to allow any of the white of the lemon to go in, put it in a saucepan with the milk and boil for five or ten minutes ; remove the rind of the lemon. Beat up the yolks of the eggs with the sugar, lemon juice, sherry and curacoa. Put the gelatine in the milk, boil up and stir until it is quite dissolved, then add the eggs, etc. Stand aside to get cold, beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir them in with the rest, pour into the moulds and set on ice.Jellies and fJrearas. 645— OEANGE MOULD. 6 oranges 1 pt. orange jelly. Mode.—Fill the mould about half full of jelly, when nearly set lay around the quarters of oranges very neatly, then pour on a little more jelly, allow that to set, then put in another layer of orange quarters, and fill up with jelly; when quite set turn out and serve. Mandarin oranges are the best for this, and when they are peeled be very careful to remove every scrap of white skin. 646— ORANGE JELLY. Make a syrup with one pint of water and one pound sugar, boil it with the thin rind of four oranges and two lemons. Skim it carefully, then add the juice of five oranges and let it boil about twenty minutes ; skim again and add the juice of a lemon and one pint of jelly (made with two ounces gelatine dissolved in half a pint of water, and clarified with white of an egg). Get a couple of sweet oranges, remove every particle of skin (of both kinds), core them to get rid of the pips and cut them in thin slices in such a way as to remove the pillicle round each quarter; proceed to fill the mould, disposing pieces of oranges in it symmetrical fashion ; pour in the jelly, place it on ice to set. Turn out when wanted.ICES, ETC. 647—HOW TO FEEEZE WITHOUT A MACHINE Ice and coarse salt. Mode.—Break up the ice into small pieces, and put it into the outer vessel in alternate layers with the salt—say, for instance, a bucket ; put the m-ixture into a billy-can or anything that would do as well; cover it well with the ice and salt; keep stirring and shaking it until the mixture is set; if wanted for a cream it will then be ready for use, but if wanted for iced puddings you must turn it into a mould and place it back into the ice, but do not stir it any more ; when it is required turn it out on to a glass dish. Of course, where people have ice cream machines it is very simple. 648—VANILLA ICE CEEAM. 1 (|t. milk A teaspoonful of essence of Yolks of 3 eggs vanilla A teacupful of sugar Juice of a lemon. Mode.—Boil the milk; beat up the eggs and mix with the sugar, vanilla and lemon juice ; then pour on the boiling milk^ put back into the saucepan and stir over the fire U'Util it thickens; when cold freeze as directed in the preceding recipe. Two tins of condensed milk and half water will do as well if milk is scarce, but do not in such case use so much sugar. 649—SYEUP FOE WATEE ICES. 6 lbs. sugar 6 qts. water Whites of 2 eggs. Mode.—Put the sugar and water on to boil over a gentle fire; let boil for a quarter of an hour; beat the whites of the eggs, mix with the water and sugar and boil for five minutes gently; strain and bottle until wanted.lees, Etc. 650—PINEAPPLE ICES. J lb fresh pineapple ^ pt. water I pt. syrup. Mode.—Bruise the pineapple fine in a mortar; add the water and syrup ; pass through a sieve and freeze as directed. Skinner's pineapple pulp is excellent for this, to be had at Brisbane or any of the leading grocers. 651—GEANADILLA ICES. The inside part of 12 grana- J lb. sugar dillas i pt. cream or 1 tin of Juice of 2 lemons Columbia cream 1 qt. milk. Mode.—Scoop out the inside of the granadillas ; put it with the sugar and lemon juice in a stewpan ; aliow them to simmer for ten minutes ; strain through a colander so as to prevent the seed from going through ; mix the syrup with the milk and cream, and freeze. 652—PASSION FEUIT ICES, The inside of 2 doz. passion 1 tin of cream or ^ pt. fruit fresh cream 1 qt. milk ^ lb. sugar. Mode.—^Scoop out the passion fruit, and with it mix the sugar; pour in half the milk ; allow it to boil long enough to dissolve the sugar ; let it remain until cool, then add to it the remainder of the milk and cream; pour all into the freezer and freeze. This can also be made with the recipe of vanilla cream. Leave out the vanilla and add the passion fruit. 653—LEMON ICES (Water) h pt. lemon juice Binds of 3 lemons 1 pt. water 1 pt. syrup.Ices, Etc. Mode.—Boil the rinds of the lemons with the juice and pint of water for ten minutes ; strain, then mix with the pint of syrup Freeze as in the first recipe ; serve in glasses. 654—EOMAN ICES. 1 qt. syrup 2 glasses of white rum Juice of 6 lemons ^ pt. water, Mode.—Mix the rum and lemon juice well together with the water ; strain into the syrup and freeze. This takes longer than other ices to freeze on account of the spirit. 655—CHOCOLATE CEEAM ICES. 3 ozs. chocolate Yolks of 3 eggs 2 ozs. powdered sugar 1 pt. milk. Mode.—Dissolve the chocolate over the fire in a little water, then add the sugar, and work it all very smooth with a wooden spoon ; beat up the yolks of the eggs and pour the hot chocolate upon them as quickly as possible ; mix thoroughly by beating them with a whisk ; strain through a fine sieve and mix with the milk; then freeze in the usual way.CAKES. 656—SCONES. 1 lb. flour Teaspoonful of carbonate of 1 teaspoonful of cream of soda tartar Pinch of salt Sour milk. Mode.—Sift the flour, cream of tartar, carbonate of soda and salt in a basin ; mix with it sufiicient sour milk to make it nice and light; mix it very lightly with your hands ; break off small pieces ; pat them with your hand and put them on a buttered tin and bake in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. 657—ALMOND CAKE. ^ lb. sugar 2 ozs. butter J lb. almonds lb. i lb. cornflour Essence of lemon and almonds 6 eggs flour. Mode.—Separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs ; beat the whites very stiff, then the yolks and sugar well together; mix well altogether ; sift the flour and cornflour, and mix lightly with the eggs, then add half the almonds (which must be blanched and chopped), the essence of lemon and three drops of almond essence ; next melt the butter and pour it in last of all, stirring quickly ; make ready a greased and lined tin for the mixture and bake from an hour to an hour and a half; before putting in the oven sprinkle the remainder of the almonds, blanched and chopped, or cut in half, over the top of the cake. When it is coloured a nice brown cover with a greased paper.Cakes. f lb. flour 658—SULTANA CAKE. 2 eggs 6 ozs. butter 2 ozs. orange peel i lb. sultanas 1J teaspoonfuls Elliott's Queens- land baking powder Essence of lemon and vanilla i cup of milk. Mode.—Sift the flour and the baking powder; beat the butter with the sugar to a cream ; beat the eggs separately (the yolks from the whites), keeping the whites back till the last; add the yolks and finely chopped orange peel or grated rind of fresh oranges to the sugar and butter, then a little essence of vanilla and lemon, and the sultanas carefully cleaned ; add the milk and the flour, and lastly, the whites of the eggs ; stir very lightly ; turn into a tin lined with buttered paper, and bake for an hour to an hour and a quarter. Mode.—Sift the flour and baking powder into a basin and rub in the butter and sugar till like fine sand ; beat the eggs, then add the essence, and with the milk and eggs work into a stiff paste; break off in pieces and flatten them, placing a spoonful of preserve in the centre of each piece ; then fold the paste over so that the jam cannot escape, and roll into small buns; place on a greased baking sheet, taking care they are not close enough to touch when they are cooked, as that would spoil their appearance ; bake about twenty minutes, according to the size ; brush over with the white of egg or milk before putting in the oven; when placing on the baking sheet care should be taken to have the closed side underneath. 659—HIDDEN TEEASUEE BUNS. f lb. flour 2 eggs \ lb. sugar J cupf ul milk Apricot jam or marmalade. 1J teaspoonf uls Elliott's Queens- land baking powder J lb. butter Essence of lemonCakes . 660—WHEAT MEAL SCONES. 3 cups wheat meal 1 egg 1 cup sweet milk 1^^ tablespoonfuls butter li teaspoonfuls cream of tartar Teaspoonful soda. Mode —Sift the soda and cream of tartar Tor two tea- spoonfuls of baking powder) with the wheat meal ; rub in the butter ; then mix in the egg (beaten) and the milk; mix all thoroughly together ; bake in small greased patty tins. 661— LONDON BUNS. 1 lb. flour A little milk 2 teaspoonfulsElliott's Queens \ lb. butter land baking powder 3 eggs 2 ozs. candied peel 6 ozs. sugar Loaf or crystal sugar. Mode.—Sift the flour and baking powder, and rub into them the butter, then the sugar and the chopped candied peel; add the eggs (beaten) and sufficient milk to make into a consistency just moist enough to handle ; shape into small buns and brush over with a little of tlie white of an egg ; sprinkle with crushed loaf or crystal sugar. Bake ten or twelve minutes. 662— CEEAM PUFFS. \ pt. water 4 eggs i pt. cream \ lb. butter Sugar \ teaspoonful Elliott's Queens - Lemon or vanilla essence land baking powder i lb. flour. Mode.—Place the butter and cold water in a small clean saucepan and bring to the boil ; have ready the flour and baking powder sifted together on the paper ; when the water boils stir this in quickly and beat till quite smooth ; cook for a few minutes, and then turn into a basin to cool a little; beat in the eggs (one at a time), and beat thoroughly for a few minutes after the last is in.Cakes, Have ready a greased baking sheet; place the mixture in spoonfuls on the tin (taking care they are not too close as they rise and swell very much); bake for half an hour in a moderate oven; be very careful to avoid banging the oven door while they are baking, and avoid opening it if possible until just before the half hour expires, then you take them out, make an opening in the top of each cake and fill with cream (which should be whipped while the cakes are baking, and sweetened and flavoured to taste. 663—EATAFIA DEOPS. 4 ozs. sweet almonds ^ lb. sugar 2 ozs. bitter almonds 3 eggs. Mode.—Blanch the almonds and pound them into a mortar with a little of the sugar; when pounded add the remainder of the sugar, and stir in the whites of two eggs (which have been stiffly beaten); form into a paste ; put tiny pieces (about the size of a nutmeg) on greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven for ten or fifteen minutes till a pretty brown ; take at once off the paper and put away to cool. Castor or powdered sugar should be used for these little cakes. 664~MAEBLE CAKE, f lb. flour 1 gill of milk ^JteaspoonfulElliott's Queens- \ lb. butter land baking powder ^ lb. sugar 2 ozs. grated chocolate 2 eggs Vanilla. Mode.—Sift the flour and baking powder; beat the butter and sugar together to a cream ; beat the eggs and add them to the butter and sugar ; add a few drops of flavouring, sift in the flour by degrees, adding the milk at the same time; mix the grated chocolate to a thick paste with a little milk ; have ready a cake tin lined with a well buttered paper ; put in about a third of the mixture, spread over it a portion of the chocolate paste, then addCakes. another layer of the cake mixture and more chocolate; lastly, the remainder of the mixture with a little chocolate on top ; place in a steady oven and bake for one and a half hours ; test with a skewer or straw before removing from the oven ; do not allow this cake to become too brown, or the chocolate on top will have a burnt flavour ; if browning too quickly over with a buttered paper. 665—OEANGE EOCK CAKES. 3 ozs. butter J lb. flour Teaspoonful Elliott's Queens- 1 egg land baking powder 4 ozs. sugar 1 or 2 oranges. Mode.—Sift the flour and baking powder into a basin ; rub in the butter and sugar, and mix with it the grated rind of the orange ; make a well in the centre and drop in the eggs, then strain the orange juice in and work all into a stift paste ; break off small rough pieces, place on a greased baking tin and bake in a rather quick oven fifteen minutes. 666— GINGER CAKES. 1 lb. flour 1 oz. ground ginger lb. butter ^ lb. sugar J lb. treacle Essence of lemon. Mode.—Sift the flour into a basin with the ginger and mix well together ; rub into this the sugar and butter ; add the essence and mix into a stiff paste with the treacle; work smooth on a board with your hands ; roll out and cut into small shapes; place these on a greased baking sheet and bake ten or fifteen minutes. 667— BUTTER CAKES. 1 lb. butter f lb sugar 1 nutmeg J lb. almonds 2 pieces candied peel 3 eggs 1^ lbs. flour 1J ozs. cinnamon.Cakes. Mode.—Sift the flour, grated nutmeg and powdered cinnai^aon into a basin, mix thoroughly ; rub in the sugar, then the butter, and add the candied peel (finely chopped); drop in the eggs one at a time and work into a smooth dough on a baking board; roll out, cut into shapes, brush over with milk or white of an egg; have the almonds ready blanched, press one into the centre of each cake ; bake in a steady oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. 668—SHOET BEEAD. 1 lb. butter 1 lb. powdered sugar 2 lbs. flour 4 eggs Candied peel. Mode.—Sift the flour in a basin, rub into it the sugar and butter and mix into a stiff paste ; beat in the eggs, roll out, cut into squares ; place a strip of candied peel on each square and bake in a steady oven for half an hour. 669—MILK BISCUITS. 1 lb. flour 2 ozs. butter 1 teaspoonful Elliott's Queens- ^ pt. milk land baking powder Pinch of salt. ^ ^ODE.—Sift the flour, baking powder and salt into abu. -^i; warm the milk and butter in a small saucepan and pour in with the flour, mixing into a nice smooth light dough ; turn on to a floured baking board ; dust the rolling pin lightly with flour, then quickly and lightly roll the dough quite thin ; cut out with a small round or oval cutter; prick well with a fork, and brush them over with milk; place on a greased baking sheet and bake in a moderate oven from ten to fifteen minutes ; turn them out on a sieve to cool before putting in a tin. 670—CHAMPAGNE BISCUITS. 6 ozs. flour 1 small teaspoonful baking 5 ozs. sugar powder 5 ozs. butter Essence of lemon or pine- 3 eggs apple.Cakes. Mode.—Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, sift the flour and baking powder, add the yolks of the eggs well beaten to the butter and sugar and stir the flour in gradually, then add the essence and the whites of the eggs, which must be beaten into a very stiff froth, have ready some thick or stiff paper, fold accordion fashion, well brush each groove with dissolved butter, place the papers on a baking sheet, put a spoonful of the mixture irto the centre of each groove, bake at once in a steady oven for about fifteen minutes. 671—GEMS. i teaspoonful Elliott's Queens- 1 egg land baking powder Flour. Cup of milk. Mode.—Beat the egg very lightly, add sifted flour and the milk alternately until it makes a thick batter, have ready some small tins warmed and buttered, half fill with the batter and bake in a brisk oven for half an hour. Turn out and split open, butter and serve hot. 672—DUNDEE CAKE. 1^-teaspoonful Elliott's Queens- f lb. sultanas land baking powder 5 eggs ^ lb. butter i lb. candied peel 1 lb. flour A little milk i lb. sugar. Mode.—Beat the butter and sugar to cream, have the sultanas cleaned and picked, sift the flour and baking powder together on to a paper, beat the eggs into the butter and sugar one at a time, then add the sultanas and the candied peel finety chopped, beat the flour in by degrees, adding a little milk if necessary, pour into a cake tin lined with greased paper, bake for two hours in a steady oven. BCakes. 673—TEA CAKES. 2 teaspoonfuls Elliott's Queens- 1 lb. flour land baking powder 3 ozs. butter J pt. milk Pinch of salt 2 ozs. sugar 2 eggs. Mode.—Sift the flour, baking powder and salt into a basin, rub to this the butter and sugar ; beat the eggs, and, with the half pint of milk, add gradually ; mix into a nice light dough, knead quickly and lightly for a minute or two till smooth, lay on to a baking board, divide in two, flatten into round cakes, make a hole in the centre and brush over with milk or egg. Bake in a brisk oven about twenty minutes, split open, butter and serve hot. 674—WALNUT CAKES. 1 lb. flour Soft icing ^ lb. butter f lb. sugar Essence of vanilla 1 lemon or candied peel ^ lb. walnuts 1J teaspoonfuls Elliott's A little milk Queensland baking pow- 6 eggs der. Mode.—Sift the flour and the baking powder well together on to a paper, cream the butter and sugar into a basin, add to them the yolks of the eggs, have the walnuts ready shelled and broken in small pieces, stir them into the butter, etc., add grated rind of lemon or two pieces of candied lemon peel finely chopped and the essence; beat well together and then sift in the flour, adding a little milk at times to prevent it becoming too stiff, last of all stir in quietly and lightly the whites of the eggs beaten to a very stiff froth ; have ready a cake tin, lined with well greased paper, half fill with the mixture and bake in a steady oven one and a half to two hours, turn out on a sieve to cool, then spread over with soft ieing, halve or quarter a few walnuts, scatter these over the top while the icing is soft and let set before using.Cakes 675—SOFT ICING. i lb. icing sugar Essence 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar Cold water. Mode.—Sift the icing sugar and cream of tartar to ensure its being free from lumps and stir into it sufficient water to make of a consistency that will spread lightly when poured on the cakes, boil for six minutes, any essence or flavoring may be added. Lemon juice is really the nicest. The iced cakes must be put into a nice cool place to allow the icing to set. Melted fondant makes a delicious soft icing. 676—CHOCOLATE ICING-. 3 ozs. chocolate 3 ozs. icing sugar Water Essence of vanilla. Mode.—Melt the chocolate in a tin by placing it in the oven, stir in the icing sugar, adding sufficient water to make it a stiff smooth paste, then add • the essence of vanilla; spread this with a spoon over the cakes or what- ever is to be used, and place in a cool place to set. 677—ICING FOE COFFEE CAKES. Mode.—Whip the whites of two eggs to a froth ; add six ounces icing sugar, a few drops of essence of vanilla ; beat it up thoroughly and spread on the cake with a knife which first dip in cold water. 678—DESDEMONAS AND OTHELLOS. 6 eggs 6 ozs. flour 6 ozs. sugar Essence Custard Chocolate icing Soft icing. Mode.—Separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs, beat the yolks and sugar well together, then the whites to a stiff froth ; beat all lightly together, sift the flour and stir in gently and quickly, then add anyCakes. essence preferred. Have ready a baking sheet lined with buttered paper and drop the mixture on this with a spoon (or run it through a bag with a tube attached) in little round cakes, take care they do not touch, bake fifteen or twenty minutes, take quickly off the paper ; scoop out a little of the centre of the flat side of each cake, fill this with custard and press two cakes together, coat half of them with chocolate icing, dotted with soft white icing, and the other half with white icing dotted with chocolate. The white cakes are called Desdemonas and the dark, Othellos. 679—GINGEE CAKE. 1 lb. treacle 3 eggs J lb. sugar i lb. butter 2 ozs. ground ginger 1J lbs. flour 2 teaspoonfuls carbonate of i oz. allspice soda i pt- milk Lemon, Mode.—Sift the flour, ginger and spice into a basin, mix well together, add the grated rind of a lemon, then warm the butter and treacle together and mix in, then the milk also warmed (with the carbonate of soda dissolved in it), mix the whole into a smooth dough with the eggs well beaten, turn into a well greased tin and bake one hour or longer in a steady oven. 680—LEMON CAKE. ^ lb. flour 2 eggs. 5 ozs. butter 5 ozs. sugar 1 lemon J cup milk Teaspoonful Elliott's Queens- Candied lemon peel land baking powder. Mode.—Sift the flour and baking powder together ; beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then beat the eggs well and add to the butter and sugar, grate in the rind ofCakes. the lemon and add the juice of half, then by degrees and alternately add the flour and the milk, have ready some round bottomed cup moulds or patty paus, well greased, half fill with the mixture, place a strip of lemon peel on each and bake fifteen or twenty minutes. If baked in the round cup moulds they look like half lemons when turned out. 681—FANCY BEEAD. ! 2 lbs. flour 2 teaspoonfuls Elliott's J pt. milk Queensland baking 2 ozs. butter powder Pinch of salt 1 egg. Mode.—Sift the flour, baking powder and salt into a basin, mix all well together, rub in the butter until quite fine like sand, beat the egg, and with the milk, mix all into a smooth dough. Work quickly and lightly with your hands on a well floured baking board until quite smooth, divide into small pieces, make into rolls, plaits, and any pretty little shapes. Brush each over with beaten egg, place on a greased and floured baking tin, arranging so that they will not touch while baking, bake from twenty to thirty minutes, according to size of the loaves. Place on a sieve to cool. ^ 682—yiCTOEIA SANDWICHES i 6 eggs i lb. butter ! 1^ cups flour 1 cup of sugar ! 2 teaspoonfuls Elliott's Queens- Essence of vanilla land baking powder Icing sugar i Jam. I Mode.—Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs well beaten, then sift the flour and baking powder and add by degrees, then add the essence. Have ready greased, two or three round sandwich tins (or bake in a square and cut in half afterwards), divide the mixture in equal portions and bake in a steady oven fifteen or twentyCakes. minutes. Spread with jam before the cakes are quite cold and place one on top of the other, sprinkle well with icing sugar and cut into shapes. 683—OEANGE BISCUITS. i lb. flour ^ lb. sugar Teaspoonful Elliott's Queens- land baking powder J lb. butter 6 eggs 1 orange 2 ozs. candied orange peel. Mode.—Cream the butter and sugar together, add the beaten yolks of the eggs, grate in the rind of the orange, finely chop and add the candied lemon peel; stir in the flour and baking powder sifted, and lastly stir in quickly the whites of the eggs, which have been beaten to a stifl froth. Have ready buttered, some tiny biscuit tins, half fill these and bake for ten or fifteen minutes in a moderate oven, bake a pretty bright brown. 684—CHEESE CAKES. Ij- lbs. powdered loaf sugar 9 eggs 4 lemons ^ lb, butter Puff pastry. Mode.—Put the sugar, yolks of nine eggs and whites ot six, well beaten, juice of four lemons and grated rind of two, and the butter (which must be fresh), in a saucepan, stir gently over the fire until the consistency of honey, pour into small jars, and when cold it is ready for use. Line some small patty tins with pufi pastry, put a little of the mixture in each, and bake in a hot oven until the pastry is a nice brown and quite cooked.Cakes. 685—DEOP CAKES. 1 lb. flour i lb. butter I- lbs. sugar 1 teaspoonful of Elliott's 3 eggs Queensland baking Essence of vanilla powder Tablespoonful of brandy J lb currants. Mode.—Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the currants and brandy. Mix in the flour sifted with the baking powder, and the eggs well beaten. Have ready a greased baking sheet, drop on in small pieces and bake for fifteen or twenty minutes. 686—CHOCOLATE CAKES. 4 ozs. butter 5 eggs 6 ozs, sugar i teaspoonful of Elliott's 6 ozs. flour Queensland baking 6 ozs. chocolate powder Essence of vanilla. Mode.—Cream the butter and sugar, beat the eggs, grate the chocolate, sift the flour and baking powder together, then add the eggs to the butter and sugar and stir in the chocolate and flour, and the essence. Have ready some patty pans, half fill witli the mixture, and bake from ten to fifteen minutes. If a little milk be used, one or two eggs may be dispensed with. 687—EAINBOW CAKE. 2 ozs. flour 2 ozs. cornflour 3 eggs 2 oz^. butter 1 tablespoonful dissolved 3 ozs. sugar chocolate Some jam J teaspoonful Elliott's Queens- Cochineal land baking powder. Mode.—Sift the flour, cornflour and baking powder. Beat the eggs well, then put the sugar and butter together, and beat to a cream, mix with the eggs and stir in theCakes. flour, etc., gradually, add the essence and divide into three parts, with one part mix the chocolate, with another a little cQchineal and leave the other plain. Bake in three sand- wich tins in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. When cold spread jam between them and place one on top of the other. 688—YIOTOKIA SPONGE. 3 eggs 3 tablespoonfuls white 1 teaspoonf ul Elliott's Queens- sugar land baking powder 3 tablespoonfuls fiour A piece of'butter the size of a walnut. Mode.—Melt the butter and mix well with all the other ingredients, divide into equal parts and bake in two well buttered sandwich tins in a moderate oven, when cold spread a layer of jam and fold together. Time for baking, twenty minutes. 689—GEOUND EIOE OAKE. 3J ozs. ground rice 5 ozs. flour ^ lb. butter J lb. castor sugar 3 eggs ^ of a lemon riiid (grated). Mode.—Beat the butter to a cream and work the sugar, lemon rind and it altogether for ten minutes. Add the eggs (which have been previously beaten), flour and rice by degrees, and turn in, stirring the whole time. Bake in a buttered paper lined mould. 690—OEEAM TAETS. J lb. flour 4 ozs. butter 6 ozs. sugar 4 eggs 1 pt. of cream Essence. Mode.—Make a paste with flour and butter, two ounces sugar and one egg, roll this out thinly and line some cake tins with it, pinch the edges in to hold theCakes. cream. Mix three eggs with the cream and the remainder of the sugar and a little essence. Pour this into the cakes and bake in a quick oven. On removing from the oven sprinkle with some sugar. 691—COENFLOUE CAKE. 6 0Z8. cornflour i lb. butter 4 ozs. sugar 1 tablespoonful of milk 3 eggs Essence of lemon or vanilla. Mode.—Beat the eggs very well, mix with the butter (beaten to a cream) sugar, cornflour, milk, eggs and essence. Beat the mixture for twenty minutes and bake in a hot oven, 692—SNOW CAKE. 1 lb. arrowroot ^ lb. sugar i lb. butter 6 eggs (the whites) Essence of lemon. Mode.—Beat the butter to a cream, stir in the sugar and arrowroot gradually, at the same time beating the mixture well, whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, then add them to the other ingredients and beat well for twenty minutes and add the essence of lemon. Bake in a moderate oven for one and a half hours. 693—SPONGE CAKE. 4 eggs 4 tablespoonfuls sugar 1 dessertspoonful of butter Small cup of sugar Salt. Mode.—Beat the eggs for fifteen minutes, add the sugar, flour and salt and then the butter, (beaten to a cream.) Bake in a greased cake tin for fifteen to twenty minutes. 694—SPONGE CAKE (Another way). 6 eggs 6 ozs. flour 6 ozs. sugar Essence of lemonCakes. Mode.—Separate the whites of the eggs from the yolks, beat the whites to a stiff froth, mix the sugar well with the yolks, then stir with the whites, sift the flour in gradu- ally (beating the eggs, etc., lightly all the time) flavour with the essence, then put in a tin, lined with greased paper and bake in a quick oven. 695—KING'S CAKE. J lb. butter 2J ozs. sugar 2J ozs. powdered almonds 1 finely chopped citron A little spice Baisins Rind of a lemon 2^ ozs. flour 4 eggs. Mode.—Beat the butter to a cream and grate into it the lemon rind, and with the sugar mix well, add the j^olks of the eggs, almonds, citron, spice, raisins and the flour, previously mixed with the whites of the eggs, when thoroughly amalgamated, put the mixture into a buttered tin and bake in a moderate oven, after it is baked turnout of the tin and ice, afterwards setting in a cool place. 696—AEROWEOOT CAKE. J lb. arrowroot ^ lb. sugar J lb. butter 3 eggs 1 tablespoonful Elliott's Queensland baking powder. Mode.—Mix the arrowroot, sugar, butter and baking powder together, then add the eggs (yolks and whites beaten separately). Bake in patty tins. 697—FEENCH CAKE. 3 tablespoonfuls butter 5 eggs 1^ teaspoonfuls baking soda 2 cups sugar 2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar 1 cup of milk Essence of vanilla.Cakes. Mode —Mix the sugar and butter together and beat to a cream, add the cream of tartar, baking soda, essence, and the eggs beaten thoroughly, then add the milk and a little flour to thicken. Bake in a buttered cake tin for about fifteen minutes. 698—ANGELS CAKES. 1 lb. flour 1 cupful of sugar The whites of 6 eggs \ lb. butter Vanilla essence. Mode.—Eub tLo butter into the flour, add the sugar and a pinch of salt, beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir in with the flour and sugar, add suflicient milk to make it moist enough to drop from the spoon ; butter some patty pans and put a spoonful of the mixture into each pan. Bake in a hot oven for nearly twenty minutes. 699—COCOANUT CAKE. 2 cups of sugar 1 cup of butter Yolks of 4 eggs 1^ cups of cold water Whites of 3 eggs 3 tablespoonfuls of Elliott's Grated cococanut Queensland baking 3 cups of flour powder. Mode.—Beat the sugar and butter together for twenty minutes, add the yolks and whites of the eggs beaten well (separately), then the flour, baking powder and water, mix all well together and bake in two sandwich tins ; when cold, ice the tops, then put the other cake on top, ice the whole of it and cover it with cocoanut. 700-CINNAMON BISCUITS. J lb. sugar J lb. butter 3 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon Elour. Mode.—Beat the sugar and butter to a cream, add the cinnamon and enough flour to make it into a thick paste, roll out very thin and cut into rounds ; bake in a quick oven on a tin with a Little flour sprinkled on it.Cakes. 701—BEANDY SNAPS. ^ lb. ffour 2 ozs. butter f lb. moist sugar J lb, treacle. Mode.—Mix all together, roll out on a floured slab to the thickness of a shilling, and with a plain cutter, cut them five or six inches in diameter; put them in slightly greased tins and bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes, 702-~EOCK CAKES. f lb. flour 1 teaspoonful of Elliott's ^ lb. sugar Queensland baking 2 ozs. candied orange or powder lemon peel ^ lb. currants 2 tablespoonfuls of milk ^ butter 2 eggs. Mode.—Put all the dry ingredients into a basin, beat the butter to a cream and beat the eggs with the milk ; now add the butter to the ingredients in the basin, then mix to a very stiff dough with the eggs and milk. Bake on a greased baking tin in little rocky pieces in a quick- oven for twenty minutes. 703— DESSEET CAKES. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 2 eggs 4 tablespoonfuls of milk 1 cup of flour 1 cup of sugar A few drops of essence of vanilla or lemon. Mode.—Mix the flour, sugar, essence and butter together, then add the eggs well beaten up, and lastly the milk. Bake in a moderately quick oven. 704— CAEAWAY CAKE. ^ cup of butter 1 cup of sugar 3 eggs 2 cups of flour Caraway seeds.Cakes. Mode,—Beat the butter to a creairi, then add the sugar to it, beat well thoroughly the yolks and the whites of the eggs separately, add the flour to them and mix all together. Bake in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. 705— COCOAlSrUT BISCUITS. i lb. sugar 3 eggs ^ cup of butter 2 teaspoon fuls of Elliott's f lb. flour Queensland baking 3 tablespoonfuls cocoanut powder. Mode.—Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, mix the baking powder and cocoanut with the flour and add to the butter and sugar, then add the eggs (well beaten). Bake for ten minutes in a hot oven. 706— A NICE PLAIN CAKE. 1 tablespoonful of butter 1 teaspoonful of Elliott's 2 tablespoonfuls of dripping Queensland baking 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar powder 5 tablespoonfuls of flour 2 eggs 1 handful of sultanas 2 pieces of lemon peel. Mode.—Mix the yolks of the eggs, butter, dripping and sugar all well together, add the whites of the eggs well beaten and a little milk ; sift in the flour and baking powder, and lastly add the sultanas. Bake in a hot oven in a greased tin covered with brown paper. 707—OEANGE OAKE. 6 eggs The juice of 2 oranges 2^ cups of flour 1 laTge teaspoonful of 1 cup of sugar Elliott's Queensland A pinch of salt baking powder. Mode.—Break the eggs and put the whites into one basin and the yolks into another; beat the yolks for five minutes, next add the sugar and beat for twenty minutes,Cakes. then add the whites well beaten; then take a cup of boiling wates, squeeze in the juice of the oranges and add salt and then sift the flour and baking powder in slowly, mix altogether. Bake in two tins about three inches deep, when baked, spread icing between them. 708—EIBBON CAKE. 4 eggs 1 teaspoonful of Elliott's 1 cup of flour Queensland baking 1 cup of sugar powder. Mode.—Beat up the eggs and sugar for twenty minutes, add the flour and baking powder, divide in three, color one-third with cochineal, another with dissolved chocolate, allow the third to be baked as it is, put each on buttered plates and bake for fifteen minutes, when done put one on top of the other with whipped cream, jam or lemon cheese between. Ice the top with one cup of sugar, a pinch of cream of tartar, half a cup of water; boil this for four minutes, stir it until it is quite white, then put on top of the cake. 709—WALNUT CEEAM SANDWICH. 4 eggs 1 teaspoonful of Elliott's 1 cup of sugar Queensland baking 1 cup of flour powder A little cream or custard 1 doz. walnuts. Mode.—Beat the eggs and sugar together for twenty minutes, sift the flour and baking powder into them with a pinch of salt, place it on four well greased flat plates ; bake from four to six minutes, when cold add whipped cream, essence of vanilla and about a dozen finely chopped walnuts, add sugar to taste, put the mixture between the cakes, press tightly together and brush over with icing sugar.VIO—COENFLOUE CAKES. 1 cup of flour 1 teaspoonful of cream of ■J teaspoonful of baking tartar powder H cups of sugar 1 cup of cornflour 5 eggs. 1 cup of butter. Mode.—Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs, then the dry ingredients sifted in, beat alogether; well grease some patty pans, nearly fill each with the mixture and bake for ten or fifteen minutes. 711—QUEEN'S SAYARIN. 1 small teaspoonful of brewers yeast. 1 tablespoonful of cream \ lb butter 2 lbs. flour \ teaspoonful of salt \ gill of water Liqueur glassful of mara- chino Essence of almonds 3 eggs \ lb. sugar f pt. milk Almonds ^ lb. loaf sugar Essence of vanilla Angelica Whipped cream Crystalized cherries A little cream or custard Mode.—Place in a basin the yeast (if home made yeast is used double the quanity or treble it according to the strength of the yeast), the cream and the eggs slightly beaten, quarter of a pound of sugar, the butter (melted) and the milk, mix these thoroughly, sift the flour and salt into another basin, make into a soft dough with the milk, etc., knead for a minute or two till smooth; grease well an open mould {i.e.^ a mould with a hole in the centre), sprinkle the mould well with blanched and chopped almonds, three parts fill with the mixture and put to rise in a warm place, when nearly risen to the top, bake in a brisk oven, covering with buttered paper to prevent it getting too brown. While baking, boil the loaf sugar in half a gill of water, until when it is dropped on a fish sliceOakefi. or sieve it falls through the holes in long syrupy drops ; add a glass of one of the liqueurs named or any that may be preferred, or substitute orange flour water for liqueurs, the vanilla, two teaspoonfuls of milk containing three drops of essence of almonds, stir these together, and when the cake is turned out of the mould stand it on a sieve and brush over five or six times with the syrup, letting each coating set before putting on the next, place in a glass dish and fill the centre of the cake with whipped cream fsweetened) and flavour the same as the syrup, decorate with slices of angelica and crystalized cherries ; serve hot or cold as cake or pudding. 712—EECOED CAKES. 1 lb. flour 2 ozs. orystalised cherries \ lb. butter f lb. sugar 3 ozs. pistachio kernels 8 eggs 1 gill cream or milk Eose water flavouring \^ teaspoonfuls of Elliott's Queensland baking powder. Mode.—Cream the butter and sugar ; sift the flour and baking powder; beat the yolks of the eggs into the butter and sugar with a wooden spoon ; whisk the whites to a stiff froth and stir gently in ; stir in the flour quickly and lightly ; if using cream, have it ready whipped and flavoured with rose water, or mix the flavouring with the milk and add while stirring in the flour. Have the cherries and pistachio kernels chopped, mix in the other ingredi- ents ; have ready greased some little patty tins ; place a spoonful of the mixture in each and bake ten or fifteen minutes. 713—ALMOND 6 ozs. butter 6 ozs. sugar 3 eggs Pinch of baking powder 4 ozs. almonds GINGEE BEEAD. 8 ozs. golden syrup 8 ozs. flour 1 teaspoonful ground spice 1 dessertspoonful ground ginger.Oakes. ' Mode.—Beat the butter and sugar together in a basin until creamy ; add the eggs, the golden syrup and the flour, with which is thoroughly mixed the spice, ginger and baking powder ; add the almonds (blanched and shreaded), pour into a greased and papered baking sheet and bake about three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. 714-~SANDWICH CAKE (Quick). 2 eggs 1 cup flour } cup of sugar 2 tablespoonfuls butter 2 tablespoonfuls hot water 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- Essence of vanilla der. Mode.—Place all dry ingredients in a basin ; beat the eggs in another basin with water and the butter, which should be melted. Put the baking powder in last, also essence ; then mix all together. Bake in a quick oven— in ordinary sandwich tins—and when done place jam in between, whilst the cakes are still warm. 715—DEEBYSHIEE SPONGE. 1 teacupful sifted flour 1 teacupful sugar A pinch of salt 3 eggs 1 teaspoonful baking powder, Mode.—Mix all the dry ingredients together, then break in the three eggs, beat well until all is thoroughly mixed ; bake on a papered tin for seven minutes ; spread with jam and roll; dust over with icing sugar. 716—LEMON DEOPS. f lb. sugar 1 lb. flour 6 ozs. butter 4 eggs 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder Essence of lemon A few chopped almonds. 8Calces. Mode.—Mix the flour, sugar, almonds and ba^ ing powder well together, then add the butter (melted) and eggs well beaten up, also the essence ; make into small round balls ; roll, and bake for fifteen minutes in a steady oven. 717_FEENCH PANCAKE. 1 teaspoonful of butter 1 teaspoonful sugar 1 teaspoonful flour A small cup of milk. Mode.—Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then work in the flour and add gradually the milk ; pour into a buttered enamelled plate and place in a hot oven for ten to fifteen minutes. 718—COCOANUT PYEAMIDS. 2 cupfuls grated cocoanut 2 tablespoonfuls flour 1 cupful castor sugar The whites of 2 eggs. Mode.—Beat the whites of two eggs and mix into a stiff paste with the other ingredients ; roll into pyramids and bake a light brown. 719—OATMEAL BISCUITS. 2 tablespoonfuls oatmeal 4 tablespoonfuls flour 1 teaspoonful Elliott's Queens- 1 saltspoonful salt land baking powder Warm water. Mode.—Mix two tablespoonfuls of oatmeal, four tablespoonfuls of flour, a saltspoonful of salt and the baking powder well together, then put in sufficient warm water to make a nice light paste; roll out very thin, and cut into pieces of about two inches long and one wide, and bake in a smart oven for five to seven minuteScBREAD. 720— TO MAKE YEAST, As many hops as you can grasp 1 qt. of water in your hand A pinch of salt 4 tablespoonfuls sugar 1 lb. lump ginger 1 tablespoonful flour. Mode.—Tie the hops in a piece of muslin and boil for an hour in the quart of water with all the other ingredi- ents ; mix the flour to a smooth paste and add to it when nearly cold, and strain and bottle it (champagne booties are the best); allow it to remain for twenty-four hours before corking. If the flour is not very good sift it through a very fine sieve and put it out in the sun, and allow it to remain there for four or five hours. 721— TO MAKE BEEAD. 1 cupful of yeast 1 tablespoonful of salt 8 lbs. of flour 4J pts. tepid water. Mode.—Sift the flour into a deep dish, heap it round the sides, leaving a hollow in the centre ; put into it three pints of warm water, a lar^e spoonful of salt and the yeast. Have ready the remamder of the water, and put in as much as will make it into a nice soft dough, kneading it well with both hands When it is nice and smooth sprinkle a little flour over it and place it in a warm place with a clean towel folded thickly over it, and leave it for three or four hours ; then knead it for a quarter of an hour, cover it and set it to rise again ; divide into six loaves, and bake in a quick oven for an hour and a buarter to an hour and a half.Bread. 722—USEFUL HINTS ABOUT BEEAD. When Baked in a Camp Oyen. Put into the centre of a camp oven an ordinary cocoa or coffee tin, and place small loaves around it, that allows the steam to work through, and your loaves are baked evenly. About Bising. In cold weather, if the bread won't rise, place the dish over a bowl of boiling water. Bread Made Oyer Night. It may be convenient for some housekeepers to make their bread over night; if such is the case, cover it closely in a warm room till morning. 723—KNEADING BEEAD. After the dough is mixed flour the hands, and with your fists beat and pummel the dough well, first with one hand and then the other, all around. Work it thus until it does not stick to your hands ; the more you knead your bread the whiter it is. 724—DOUGH. Never allow the dough to get cold before it is finished or it will be heavy. If you have not enough yeast it will make the dough heavy Do not stand it too near the fire, but keep it warm at a steady heat. If the dough be allowed to overwork itself in warm weather it will become sour, A very clean earthenware bowl, clean hands and arms, nice fresh yeast is always required in making bread.SWEETS. 725—FONDANT. 2 lb. sugar ^ a cup of water J a teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Mode.—Place tlie sugar and water in a moderately large saucepan ; when melted mix the cream of tartar with a little water and stir in; do not exceed the quantity of cream of tartar given, or the fondant will be a failure ; have a brush and basin of cold water handy, and while the syrup is coming to the boil brush round the sides of the saucepan occasionally to prevent the sugar crystalising ; soon as it boils place the cover on the saucepan and boil rather quickly. Have ready a piece of thin wire twisted into three or four loops at one end ; when the syrup begins to look thick dip this wire in, and if the syrup is thick enough to form a film across the loops, blow through them (holding the wire over a piece of paper); if the syrup blows out in a flaky sort of bubble, it has reached what is called the "feather degree," which is required for fondant; take off as soon as this degree is reached. Have ready a large basin which has been rinsed out with cold water, turn the syrup into this without delay; place the basin in another containing cold water, which must be renewed as soon as it gets warm ; sprinkle the top of the syrup with cold water to prevent it caking, and allow it to stand until flesh warm ; then with a wooden spoon beat the syrup until it becomes quite stiff and white ; it will suddenly turn to a hard white mass, and must be beaten until this happens; turn to a board and knead as you would dough, using icing sugar instead of flour; and when of a smooth elastic consistency it is ready to use, or put away in a basin covered with a damp cloth until re<5[uired. This fondant is the foundation for chocolate cream, cocoanut ice and other sweets; for colouring it theSwe/>M, vegetable colourings are the best, being quite barmleas and in many ways the most suitable. Be careful to procure the very best white crystalised sugar for fondant. 726—COOOANUT ICE. Fondant Flavouring Desiccated cocoanut Colouring Icing sugar. Mode.—Take about half a pound of fondant, place it in a saucepan and heat sufficiently to make it soft; into this stir about a cupful of desiccated cocoanut, work on a board with icing sugar until set again; divide into two or three portions, add essence and colouring according to taste, leaving one portion of white ; the colouring and essence can be worked in by kneading on the board. Have ready a greased pie-dish or soup plate, place the cream in layers, for instance, if three colours are used, say one portion green and another pink, and the third white, place in according to taste and let it remain in a cool dry place till quite set; turn out and cut into blocks or any other shape you may wish. 727—COCOANUT ICE (Another Way). 2 cups of sugar ^ cup of milk ^ lb. desiccated cocoanut Essence of vanilla. Mode.—Boil the sugar and milk from four to six minutes ; put in a basin with the cocoanut and stir till thick and white, like blanc mange ; put on a greased plate (after putting the essence in); repeat above and colour with a little cochineal and put on top of the white layer. 728—JELLY CEEAMS. 1 lb. fondant Colouring 2 doz. French jellies Essence. Mode.—Knead the fondant on a well sugared board (using icing sugar); have it all white, or divide, and colour it according to taste ; work in any suitable essence jSweets, roll the fondant out thinly, cut into pieces about an inch square and bring the points of the square to form a sort of envelope ; in this place have a French jelly, press the points of the envelope slightly together; spread on dishes and put away to dry. 729—DATE CEEAMS. 1 lb. dates Essence i lb. fondant Colouring. Mode.—Choose fresh dates that can be easily separated and not have a squashed appearance; stone the dates carefully ; have ready the fondant, which will be divided and each portion differently coloured and flavoured to form a variety. Break off small pieces of fondant, roll the length of the dates, place in the space left by removing the stone, press the dates lightly together, allowing the fondant to be seen; then let them stand until the fondant, is firm. 730—FEEINCH JELLIES. 1 oz. gelatine 2 lbs. sugar cups of water Colouring and essence. Mode.—Soak the gelatine in half the water (cold), and when soft pour on the other half (boiling), place in a saucepan with the sugar, skim well, bring to the boil and boil for twenty minutes. Binse a number of soup plates out with cold water ; pour a portion of the liquid jelly into each ; add different essence and colouring to all the plates ; leave one white and flavour with colourless essence, rose or almond; place on cold water or in a cool place, but not in ice, until the next day, then with a sharp knife cut out of the plates in strips and cut into squares, diamonds or triangles ; roll in icing sugar or ordinary white sugar, and spread on trays or dishes to dry. Fondant Esseucj 731—CHOCOLATE CREAMS. Butter Chocolate.Sweets. J- lb. dates i lb. ginger. Mode.—Take a piece of fondant and work into it wiiatever essence is preferred ; work it on a baking board, well dusted with icing sugar ; if liked, a portion of the fondant may be coloured by dropping a little on and working it on a board till thoroughly blended ; roll it into tiny balls or shapes, as fancy suggests. Scrape two or three cakes of chocolate into a basin, drop in a tiny piece of butter; add about a dessertspoonful of fondant, place in the oven or in a saucepan of boiling water until dis- solved ; drop the balls into the chocolate (it must not be too warm or the balls will melt); coat thoroughly, then take out with a piece of bent wire, place on a greased tin or dish to dry and put away in a cool dry place. 732—EIG CEEAMS, 1 box of preserved figs Essence J lb. fondant Colouring. Mode.—Cut the figs into quarters ; knead the fondant on the board, and, if wished, colour a portion of it; work in any essence preferred (lemon is suitable for this sweet); roll small pieces of the fondant into balls ; just open the quarters of figs, press in the fondant balls and spread on a dish to dry. 733—WALNUT CEEAMS. 1 lb walnuts Essence ^ lb. fondant Colouring. Mode.—Break the walnuts in half very carefully, trying to keep each half intact; divide the fondant into two or three parts, kneading in colouiing and essence to each ; break ofP pieces and roll into balls ; place these between the halves of the walnuts ; press together and put away to dry on a tray or dish, 734—FRUIT SANDWICHES. J lb. fondant Essence and colouring J lb. figs ^ lb. prunesSweets. Mode.—Divide the fondant into two parts, flavour each, say one with rose and another with lemon ; colour one portion if wished ; roll these out into thin squares on a board well dusted with icing sugar; chop the fruit altogether ; spread the fruit on one-half of the fondant, cover with the other half, and with fancy cutters or a sharp knife cut into tiny designs; spread on a slightly greased tin dusted with icing sugar and allow to remain in a cool place until dry. Such a variety of fruit is not actually necessary; but when making sweets there are generally scraps of fruit left over, and this is a very delicious way of using them up. 735—EIBBON CEEAMS. lb. fondant Colouring Essence. Mode.—Divide the fondant and knead on a board well dusted with icing sugar; have three or more portions, colour each differently, leaving one white ; have a different flavouring for each, say lemon, vanilla, rose, and if a fourth is required, a few drops of almond ; care must be taken not to allow any one flavour to predominate. These creams may be in different shapes, for instance, take tiny pieces of each, press together and roll into balls, or place some of each colour in layers and cut out with a cutter or sharp knife into tiny squares, diamonds and triangles ; spread out to dry on a dish or tray. 736—CEEAMS, 2 cups of sugar i cup of milk Essence of vanilla. Mode.—Boil the milk and sugar, stirring all the time, from four and a half to six minutes (take the time from when it commences to boil; do this also in the cocoa- nut ice); take off the fire and stir well; add the essence. Have some dates stoned or comquats cut in half, or walnuts, prunes or almonds blanched and split ; make aSweets. ball of the cream and put the preserve on either side, put on a flat dish at a little distance by an open window to cool and dry. Some of the cream may be coloured. 737—MERINGUES. Whites of 4 eggs 8 ozs. fine sugar Essence. Mode.—Beat the whites to a stiff froth, put in the sugar and essence, beat until they are stiff enough not to move when the plate they are put on is turned over; put on greased paper in the shape of an egg, and bake in a cool oven for an hour to an hour and a half ; whip some cream and put between two of the meringues, or, if liked, preserve may be used instead, or the meringues may be made larger, and no filling will be then needed.CHUTNEYS AND PICKLES. 738—TOMATO SAUCE. 40 lbs. tomatoes 2 qts. of the best vinegar 1 lb. of salt 1 lb. of sugar 2 ozs. cloves 4 ozs. of allspice 2 ozs. of whole pepper J oz. cayenne 6 lbs. of apples. Mode.—Put the tomatoes in a saucepan and boil until they are soft, then rub them through a sieve and boil the pulp for an hour, add the vinegar, salt, sugar, cloves, all- spice, pepper (cracked) and cayenne, allow to boil four more hours ; slice and core the apples and boil with it. Allow to get cold, then bottle, cork and seal down with sealing wax. 739—TOMATO SAUCE (Another way). Mode.—Take nine pounds of tomatoes, sprinkle them with salt and let them remain for two or three days. Boil them until the skins separate from them easily, then pulp them through a colander, leaving the skins behind ; to the pulp add 4 ozs. of eschallots (chopped fine), one drachm cayenne pepper, two drachms ground white pepper, two drachms grated nutmeg, half an ounce mixed spice, half an ounce ground ginger. Boil the whole well together for two hours, then add six ounces strong ascetic acid, three- quarters of a pint of best sherry. Cool, bottle and cork securely. 740—PICKLED BEETEOOT. To every quart of vinegar :— 1 oz. whole pepper 1 oz. cloves. Mode.—Wash the beetroot free from dirt, and put on in boiling water with a little salt; allow it to simmer gently for an hour and a half, take it out and let it cool, when cool peel and cut into slices. Boil the vinegar, pepper andGhutneys and Fickles. oloves for about ten minutes, when cold pour over the beetroot, which has been previously put into jars. Tie over with bladder and it will be ready for use in about ten days. 741—PICKLED CAPSICUMS. 1 qt. of vinegar 1 oz. of whole pepper J lb. of capsicums. Mode.—Cut the stalks off the capsicums and cut each one half way up. Put the capsicums in a jar, boil the vinegar and whole pepper together for five minutes, when cold pour over the capsicums. Tie down with a bladder and they will be ready for u«e in eight days. 742- -PICKLED EGGS. 1 qt. of -^^negar A tablespoonful of black 3 pieces of ginger pepper 12 eggs. Mode.—Boil the eggs for ten minutes, then place them in cold water for a minute and shell. Boil the vinegar with the pepper and ginger for five or ten minutes. Put the eggs into a jar and pour over them the vinegar, etc. boiling hot; when it is cold tie down with a bladder to exclude the air. 743— PICKLED LIMES. Limes A blade of mace Brine 8 chillies 1 qt. of vinegar 6 cloves 10 whole pepper corns. Mode.—Boil a pound of salt in a quart of water until a potato will float in it, then pour the salt water over the limes and allow them to stand for twenty-four hours, then strain and put the fruit into a jar ; boil the vinegar with the other ingredients for half an hour and pour over the limes boiling. Allow it to cool then tie up with bladder and allow it to stand from ten to twelve days.Ckutneys and Tickles. 1 piece of ginger. 744_PIOKLED LIMES (Another Way). To every quart of vinegar add ;— 8 birdseye chillies or a salt- 1 oz. of whole pepper spoonful of cayenne (bruised) 1 oz. of cloves. Mode.—Wash the limes, dry them with a cloth, and put them into a jar. Boil the vinegar and other in- gredients for three hours and when nearly cold pour over the limes, not removing the chilles and spices. Tie down with a bladder and allow to remain for twelve or fourteer days. 745—PICKLED CABBAGE. To every quart of vinegar add: 1 oz. whole pepper \ oz. of ginger \ oz. of cloves Saltspoonful of cayenne Salt. Mode.—Take off the outside decayed leaves of the cabbage, cut the heart into four, remove the stalks and cut across in very thin strips ; lay this on a dish and sprinkle with plenty of salt, cover with another dish, then let it remain for twenty-four hours, and turn in a colander to drain. In the meantime boil the vinegar for two hours with the whole pepper, ginger, cloves and cayenne. Put the cabbage into jars, and when the vinegar is cold, strain, cover the cabbage with the vinegar anql tie down with a bladder. Keep in a dry place and it will be ready for use in six days. I have used the white cabbage and boiled a little cochineal with the vinegar to color it. 746_PICKLED ONIONS. 6 lbs. nice young small 1 tablespoonful of whole onions pepper 3 qts. vinegar 10 clovesChutneys and Pickles. 3 lbs. of raisins 7 bottles of vinegar. Mode.—Boil the vinegar with the cloves, pepper and ginger for an hour, then put it on the side to cool, peel the onions and place in a jar, cover with the vinegar, etc., and allow them to stand for a week or ten days, tie down with a bladder and put them in a dry place , these will keep for six or eight months. Do not peel the onions with a steel knife or you will turn them a bad color, it is always best to use a silver one. 747—PICKLED CUCUMBEES. No. 1. \2 small cucumber J lb chillies or 2 teaspoonfuls ^Ih. salt of cayenne 8 young vine leaves. Mode.—Pick out nice young cucumbers not too small, put them in a jar, if the jar is too big for a dozen and you have more cucumbers, fill it. To eveiy gallon of water allow a quarter of a pound of salt, and a teaspoonful of cayenne or four ounces of chillies ; cover the cucumbers with this mixture, pack them as tight as you can and be sure that the water covers them, then put on the vine leaves. Cork the jar down securely and allow them to stand for eight or nine days, then they ought to be ready for use. 748—PICKLED CUCUMBEES. No. 2. To every quart of vinegar add :— I oz. ginger I oz whole pepper ^ oz. salt. Mode.—Boil the vinegar with the ginger, whole pepper and salt for an hour and strain. Put the cucumbers in a jar, packed tight, then cover with the vinegar when cold and cork the jar securely ; allow them to remain six or eight da3\s and they will be ready for use. 749—MANGO CHUTNEY. 12 lbs. of peeled mangoes 3 lbs. of sugar (white) IJ- lbs. fine salt 2 lbs. of green ginger i lb. green garlic 2 lbs. of chilliesChutneys and Pickles. Mode.—The mangoes must be just turning yellow but not soft, take out the stone. These quantities are weighed when everything is peeled and all put through the sausage machine ; all the ingredients must be put on at the same time. Boil the chutney until a nice golden brown, whjch will take nearly four or five hours. 750_TOMATO CHUTNEY. ' 3 qts. tomatoes 6 drachms of cayenne ' ; : 1 lb. coarse brown sugar 1 lb. sultanas 6 ozs. salt 5 ozs. mustard seed 3 ozs. strong acetic acid \ lb. garlic. Mode.—Eub the tomatoes through a colander to a pulp ; when strained, add the raisins (chopped) and the garlic shreded very fine, bruise the mustard seed and mix in a mortar with the sugar, salt and spice, gradually add them to the tomatoes; boil the whole for two or three hours, constantly stirring, and lastly add the acetic acid. Cool, bottle and cork. 751—TOMATO CHUTNEY (Another Way). 14 lbs. tomatoes 6 large apples or dried 6 chillies apples 3 ozs. allspice 6 or 7 good sized onions 2 ozs. whole pepper A teaspoonful of mustard 1 oz. of cayenne seed 2 large pieces of whole 3 ozs cloves ginger Treacle Water and vinegar ^ lb. brown sugar. Mode.—Take the tomatoes when they are just be- ginning to color, slice them and leave them in salt for fourteen hours, then carefully pour all the juice from them, put them into a preserving pan, with the onions (sliced), chillies, mustard seed, allspice, cloves, pepper, cayenne and ginger, cover them with equal quantities of treacle, water and vinegar; boil in a separate pan theChutneys and Pickles. apples with the brown sugar, mash them well when cooked and add to the chutney The whole takes about an hour and a half after it has commenced to boil. 752~TOMATO RELISH. 12 tomatoes (large) 1 handful of salt 4 medium sized onions Vinegar 1 tablespoonful curry pow- tablespoonfuls dry mus- der tard 1 lb. sugar 5 or 6 chillies or cayenne. Mode.—Cut the tomatoes in four, about the size of a walnut, place them in a large dish and sprinkle the salt over them; let them stand for twelve hours. Take the onions and cut about the same size, place them in another dish and do the same as above. In the morning pour away the water that has run out of both, then put the onions and tomatoes together into a saucepan with enough vinegar to just cover them, place on the fire and boil for five minutes. While they are boiling mix up the curry powder and mustard in a little cold vinegar, put into the saucepan with the sugar and chillies or cayenne, stir well and boil half an hour. 753—CAPSICUM CHUTNEY. To every pound of capsicum pulp allow : 1 lb. sugar i pt. vinegar. Mode.—Boil the capsicums in a lot of water till tender, then strain and pound up to a pulp, add the sugar and vinegar and boil till thick.JAMS AND PRESERVES. 754—EOSELLA JAM. To every lb. of the shell A little water allow 1 lb. of sugar. Mode.—When making rosella jam it is necessary to separate the shell from the pod ; tie the pods up in a piece of mosquito net and put them into the preserve pan with the rosellas, sugar and a little water; allow them to stand by the fire for an hour, where it is just hot enough to bring them slowly to a boil; allow them to simmer gently for an hour and a half or two hours ; take out the pods and let the jam get cool; then put into preserve jars. Those with the patent tops are very handy. 755—EOSELLA JELLY. To every pt. of juice add 1 lb. A little water sugar. Mode.—"When making rosella jelly there is no occasion to pick them ; you can put them into the preserving pan just as you get them, with a little water to every pint of fruit; allow it to boil for two or three hours, then strain it through a sieve; put one pound of sugar to every pint of juice, and put this back into the preserving pan and boil for an hour, or until it jellies in a saucer ; when cool, fill the preserve jars, and when quite cold fasten them up securely. 756—EOSELLA JELLY (Another Way). 1 cupful the hard portion to Enough water to float the 3 pts. of the other rosellas. Mode.—Boil until soft; strain off the juice and replace in the pan with a pound of brewers' crystal to each pint of juice; boil for about three-quarters of an hour, TJams and Preserves. skimming well, and make sure by dropping a little on a plate (before removing it from the fire) that the jelly will be jelly when cold. 757—PEESEEYED PUSTEAPPLE. To every lb. of pineapple add 1 lb. of sugar and a little water. Mode.—Peel the pineapple and cut into thin slices ; put the sugar into a preserving pan, allowing a quarter of a pint of water to every pound of sugar ; when it is boiling drop in the slices of pineapple, and allow it to boil for about half an hour ; put the pineapple into jars and cover with syrup; close down securely and stow it away until required. 758—PINEAPPLE JAM. To every lb. of fruit add 1 lb. of sugar. Mode.—Weigh the pineapple after it is skinned, then chop or cut it in very thin pieces ; put it in a preserving pan with the sugar ; watch until it boils ; then move on one ^de and allow it to simmer for four or five hours. Wken c@ld put into preserve jars. 759—PINEAPPLE JAM (Another Way). 6 pineapples 6 apples 9 lbs. sugar. Mode. —Peel and slice the pineapple, cut them into squares ; cover with sugar and let stand for twenty-four hours on a large china dish ; place in a preserving pan, or large stewpan, with the strained juice and grated rind of the lemons ; boil till tender and sufficiently set; put into jars, and when cold tie down carefully and store in a dry place. 760—GUAYA JELLY. To every pt. of juice add 1 lb. of sugar and the juice of 1 lemon.Jams and Preserves. Mode.—Choose the large guavas, cut them into small pieces ; put into a preserving pan and allow a quarter pint of water to every pound of sugar; allow to boil gently for four hours, or until the Juice is a nice pink colour; strain through a tea towel tied to the four legs of a chair; then put the sugar into the pre- serving pan with the juice of the guavas and juice of a lemon ; allow this to simmer gently until it begins to set; try it occasionally in a saucer; put it in the preserve jars when nearly cold, and when quite cold fasten the jars up securely. 761—PIE MELON JAM. ] lb. pie melon ^ lb. sugar \ oz. ground ginger Juice aud rind of 1 lemon 1 apple. Mode.—Peel the melon and cut into small dice-shaped pieces; cut the lemon in very thin slices, also the apple (peeled and cored); put the whole into a preserving pan with the sugar and ginger ; allow it to boil for five hours and be careful to keep it stirred all the time. Allow it to get cold and then fill the preserve jars and fasten securely. 762-~PEICKLY PEAE JELLY. 1 lb. fruit 1 lb. sugar Juice of 1 lemon Pind of a lemon \ pt. water. Mode.—Cut the fruit in half, put it into a large basin, cover it with the sugar and allow it to stand for a couple of hours, then put it into the preserving pan with the lemon juice, rind and water. Allow it to simmer for four hours or until it jellies, then strain through a towel tied to a chair, or a felt jelly bag. When nearly cold put into the jars, and when quite cold fasten it up securely.Jams and Preserves, 763—MAEMALABE. To every lb. of Seville oranges add 1 qt. of water, 1 lemoD and 1^ lbs. sugar. Mode.—Cut up the oranges very fine, and the lemon, put them into a basin with the water and allow them to soak for twenty-four hours, then boil until tender. Allow one and a half pounds of sugar to every pound of pulp and boil for another half an hour ; put into preserve jars. 764—OEANGE MAEMALADE. 6 lbs. Seville oranges 8 lbs. of sugar Mode.—Cut the peel of the oranges into strips so that they will come off in even pieces ; put the peel into a stewpan with a quantity of water and boil for two hours, then strain, cut the peel into long narrow strips. Squeeze the orange through a sieve, do not allow any of the seeds or the white skin to go through. Put the sugar, juice and the peel into a preserving pan and boil them from three- quarters of an hour to an hour, being very careful to remove the scum as it rises and stirring all the time. Put them into jam pots or preserving jars, cover with brandy paper and tie closely over. 765—OEANGE MAEMALADE (Another Way). 6 lbs. Seville oranges 8 lbs. sugar. Mode.—Take six pounds of oranges ; cut the peel so as to make it come off in four pieces. Put all the peels on the fire in a preserving pan with a large quantity of water and boil them for two hours, then cut them in very thin slices. While they are boiling, press the insides of the oranges through a sieve fine enough to prevent the seeds and skin from going through. When this is done and the peels cut into the thinnest shreds; put the whole on the fire in a copper or brass pan with eight pounds of loaf sugar broken small. Boil it all together for ten minutes, it may then be taken off the fire and put into preserving jars.t7am« and Preserves. 766-CANNED OUMQUATS. 1 lb. fruit 1 lb. sugar i pt. water. Mode.—Put the sugar into the preserving pan with the water, allow it to boil for half an hour; while boiling put in the cumquats and boil for another half an hour, then put into preserve jars and fasten down securely. 767—PEESEEYED OUMQUATS. 1 lb. fruit 1J lb. sugar 2 tablespoonfuls salt. Mode.—The cumquats should be pierced through in a couple of places with a hat pin. Well cover them with water, and to every quart of water allow a teaspoonful of salt, boil for half an hour and then strain them. Put fresh water on the cumquats and boil till soft enough to receive the head of a pin, then pour away half the water and make up the quantity of fluid required. Allow a liberal pound and a half of sugar to every pound of fruit and fluid and the faster it boils after putting in the sugar the better. The success of this recipe is that the fruit boils as fast as possible ; the faster it boils the better colour the jelly will be. Keep skimming with a strainer as so many pips boil out. 768—TO PEESEEYE OUMQUATS (Another Way). Mode.—Let them lie twelve hours in salt and water, wash them in clean water to remove the flavor of salt, put them in the preserving pan with plenty of cold water and let them boil gently until tender ; keep filling up with boiling water as the fluid decreases, but do not let them boil too fast as the fruit will burst. Take out very care- fully and lie them on a folded cloth to drain, cover with another cloth to keep them hot while you prepare the syrup, in which boil them gently until they are a rich golden color. When the syrup will jelly on a plate it is sufficiently boiled.Jams <md Freserves. 769~MANaO JAM. 1 lb. fruit 1 lb. sugar. Mode.—Get mangoes that are just about to ripen> peel them, slice and remove the stone, weigh the fruit only, then put it into a preserving pan with the sugar, allow it to simmer for four or five hours, then when cool put into preserve jars. 770—CANNED PEACHES. 6 doz. peaches 2 lbs. sugar 3 pts. water. Mode.—Allow the water and sugar to come to the boil, then halve the peaches and peel them, boil them in the syrup until you can run a clean hat pin through easily. Pour into the jars boiling, fill them very full and cork down, allow them to stand in a warm place until cool, then place them in the store room. The mason jar is the best. 771_QUINOE JELLY. 12 lbs. quinces 2 doz. cloves 12 lbs. sugar 1 pt. water. Mode.—Peel the quinces and cut them up into small pieces, leaving the seed ; put them into a preserving pan with the sugar, cloves and water ; allow them to simmer gently for four or five hours ; watch closely that the syrup does not catch the saucepan ; then close the preserving pan down with a piece of brown paper under the lid, and allow it to simmer for another two hours. Strain through a piece of mosquito net; place in the preserve jars • when cold close tightly and keep in a cool, dark place. 772—OEANGE JAM. 8 oranges 2^ qts. of watei 5 lbs. sugar. Mode.—Wash the oranges, wipe perfectly dry with a nice clean cloth; cut into thin round slices ; take out the seed and the little round of pith in the centre of the slices ;Jams and Preserves, soak for twenty-four hours in two and a half quarts of water; place the whole in a preserving pan and boil for two hours; add five pounds of sugar and boil for two hours longer ; it should then be thick enough to take up, if not, boil a little longer. It ought to be a golden colour and quite clear. Place in jars and cover down when cold 773—OEANGE STEAWS. 12 oranges 1 lb. sugar. Mode.—Take the peel of the oranges and throw into cold water and boil until the peel is tender, using plenty of water and changing it after an hour's boiling, as the water gets very bitter. Put the peel in a colander to drain, and when cool, cut in long narrow strips with scissors, make a syrup of one pound of sugar, put into it one pound of orange peel and boil for twenty-five minutes. Take out the strips from the syrup with a fork and place upon plates to dry near the fire. Takes about two days for straws to dry sufiiciently to pack in boxes. 774—FEUIT SALAD. 3 apples 2 or 3 oranges 1 small pineapple 4 granadillas (or 12 passion 1 small pawpaw fruit) 3 bananas 1 tin Skinner's Cape goose- ^ pt. wine (hock or sherry) berries 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Mode.—Peel the apples, oranges, bananas and paw- paw ; cut these up very small and put into a glass dish ; sprinkle well with sugar; on these put the passion fruit, granadillas and gooseberries ; then scatter over all about three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Pour the wine over and allow it to stand for an hour before using. In the southern colonies where pawpaw and grana- dillas cannot be obtained other fruits can be used. 775_YEGETABi7e~MAEEOW JAM. To every lb. of marrow allow ^ lb. loaf sugar Eind and juice of 1 lemon i oz. ginger.Jams and Preserves. Mode.—Peel tlie marrow, remove the seed and cut into small pieces, place in a pan with the sugar, lemon rind and juice, and the ginger. Let it stand all night ; next day pour off the juice and boil; add the marrow, boil for one and a half to two hours, till it becomes thick and transparent. Pour into pots and cover. 776—TOMATO JAM. Mode.—Scald the tomatoes and peel them, then sprinkle with sugar and allow them to remain over night; then drain away all the water and sprinkle again with sugar ; let them remain a while longer and drain away the rest of the liquor, one pound of sugar to one pound of tomatoes, boil slowly for five hours, then allow them to boil quickly until the tomato seeds come to the top. 777_PEESEEyED MELON. Mode.—Make some lime water by mixing freshly slaked lime with water, say, a dessertspoonful to a quart, but the quantity is immaterial, as the water will only absorb a certain quantity. Leave for twenty-four hours and strain off. Cut the melon into neat squares and soak in the lime water all night: the object of this is to slightly harden the fruit so that the pieces will keep their shape. When cooked make a syrup in proportion to half a pint of water to two pounds of sugar; add (for a large melon) a dozen lemons (thinly sliced), and tartaric or citric acid to taste; when boiling add melon and boil till quite trans- parent. 778—TO MAKE AND OLAEIFY SYEUP FOE PEESEEYING To every J gallon of water allow 1 lb. of sugar. Mode.—Put this in a preserving pan, keeping out, say, a half pint of the quantity of water ; well stir into the water and sugar the well beaten whites of one or more eggs, according to the quantity of syrup made ; put allJams and Preserves. this on the fire, but do not stir again ; let it come to the boil, and when it boils quickly and well up in the pan dash in the water (unused) as stated, and let it again boil well up when at once remove the pan from the fire, and let it stand five minutes ; then carefully remove the scum from the top, and you will have lovely clear syrup, in which put any fruit you wish to preserve and let it boil. 779—PAWPAW PEESEEYE. 1 lb. sugar ^ pt. water White of one egg 2 tablespoonfuls lime 1 gallon water. Mode.—Put the lime into the water and stir it until it is dissolved. Peel the pawpaw and cut into slices about two inches thick and the length of the fruit; pub these pieces into the lime water and allow it to remain for eight to ten hours ; then take the fruit out. Make the syrup No. 778 recipe, and when boiling put in the pawpaw and allow it to boil quickly for half an hour. Take out the fruit and arrange in glass jars lengthways, and when the syrup is cool fill the jars and cork down securely. If you want to keep this preserve for a length of time it is better to boil it a little longer.EGGS. CHOOSE EGGS. In ctoosing eggs apply the tongue to the larger end of the egg; if it is warm, you may depend on the egg being fresh. No egg should be used for culinary purposes unless you are quite sure it is fresh, as it will spoil any- thing you are doing if the slightest taint is in it. Eggs that are bought should always be broken separately in a cup and then put in a basin ; by this means stale eggs are easily rejected without spoiling the lot. 781—BOILED EGGS. Be sure your eggs are fresh, as they cannot be too fresh for boiling, although the fresher they are the longer they take to boil; those that are two or three days old being boiled quicker. Mode.—Put the eggs into the boiling water with a spoon, being sure that the spoon touches the bottom of the saucepan before it is withdrawn—that is to prevent the egg from falling or cracking. Eor a lightly boiled egg allow three minutes, or three and a half to four minutes will set the white nicely. For salads allow them to boil for ten minutes, then put them into cold water; roll them on the table with your hand and they will shell nicely. 782—FEIED EGGS. 6 eggs Teaspoonful bacon fat. Mode.—Be very sure that the pan is perfectly clean, warm it and rub it with a very clean towel; put the bacon fat in and allow it to get hot; break the eggs in a cup and then slip them into a pan ; just loosen the edges with a knife ; when the whites are nicely set take them up with a slice ; serve on hot toast or with grilled bacon orEggs. ham. If they are served with bacon or ham it should be cooked first. Some people like the eggs fried in a lot of dripping, but I do not agree with them, as that makes the eggs greasy. 783—POACHED EGGS. 6 eggs Water Tablespoonful of vinegar. Mode.—Eggs for poaching should be about twenty- four hours old, as, if they are too fresh, it is difficult to get the whites to get. Pour the boiling water and vinegar into a clean pan ; when it is quite boiling break an egg into a cup, then slip it into the water ; with a spoon pour a little of the boiling water over them ; do this with all the eggs. Great care should be taken to keep the whites together -for inexperienced persons it is as well to have a poacher. About three minutes poaches an egg nicely. Lift with a slice on to a round of buttered toast. 784—SCEAMBLED EGGS. 6 eggs Tablespoonful of butter Pepper and salt. Mode.—Beat up the eggs well in a basin, add pepper and salt to taste; put the butter into a small saucepan ; when it bubbles pour in the eggs, stir it all the time until it sets (about four minutes); turn out on buttered toast and serve at once. 785—SAYOTJEY EGGS AND CHEESE. 6 eggs 3 ozs. cheese Cayenne Chopped parsley 2 ozs. butter. Mode.—Butter a pie-dish well, put in half the cheese and a little cayenne ; break the eggs carefully into a dish ; then strew over them the parsley (chopped very finely)Eggs. and the remainder of the cheese (grated); put a few breadcrumbs over them and small pieces of butter; bake in a quick oven for ten or fifteen minutes. 786—EGGS IN CASES. 6 eggs Butter Grated cheese Cayenne Chopped parsley. Mode.—Butter six souffle cases, break an egg into each ; cover each one with a little parsley, grated cheese and a pinch of cayenne ; bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. 787—EGGS AND BEEADCEUMBS. 6 eggs Butter Eresh breadcrumbs j Mode.—Butter some patty pans well, sprinkle each with some breadcrumbs; break each egg very carefully into each patty pan ; put on each a little pepper, salt and butter ; bake in an oven where the heat is greater under- neath, or on the top of the stove. Let the whites set and turn them out bottom upwards. 788—EGGS AND BACON. Ery some eggs nicely and have some grilled bacon. Mode.—Be careful not to have the eggs greasy, and fry them a nice brown. Cut the bacon in nice rashers, and grill over a nice clear fire, watching it carefully. Place the bacon on a hot dish and lay the eggs on top. 789—BAKED EGGS. Bacon Eggs Milk Salt and pepper. Mode.—Get some nice fat bacon, chop it very fine, put it in a pie-dish with a little milk ; allow it to cook for about ten minutes, then break the eggs in, being careful not to break the yolks, and bake for five or seven minutes.Eggs. 790~POACHED EGGS AND ANCHOVY TOAST. Mode.—Mix some ancliovy paste witli some butter ; you must guess what quantity you require, for instance, for two slices of toast you would require a teaspoonful of paste to a tablespoonful of butter and a pinch of cayenne. When it is all mixed together, spread it on very hot toast; have the eggs ready, cut away the crusts from the toast, and put the eggs on it. Serve at once. • 791—OMELETTE. 2 whole eggs Minced parsley Pepper and salt Butter. Mode.—Beat the whites to a stiff froth, then beat the yolks in a separate basin with a little butter, pepper and salt, and chopped parsley. Put a little butter in a pan and allow it to get hot; then when you are ready to cook the omelette mix the whites with the yolks and pour into the pan; stir it until it begins to set; then loosen it around the edges and double it over; when browned turn out on a very hot plate and serve at once. This is sufficient for one person. If you want a sweet omelette add a little flour, milk and sugar, instead of the salt, pepper and parsley, and when you double it over put a little jam in the centre. 792—GEILLED HAM. Mode.—Cut some nice thin slices of ham, put them on a grill over a nice clear fire; watch closely, as it does not want too much cooking ; turn it and serve on a very hot dish, either with fried or poached eggs, or kidney. 793—GEILLED BACON. Mode.—Cut some nice thin slices of bacon, put them on a grill over a clear fire ; watch closely, as it does not Tyant too much cooking; turn it and serve on a very hot dish, either with fried or poached eggs, or kidney.Eggs. 794—TO PEESEEYE EGGS. Mode.—Make a solution of gum arable, dip in each egg and allow them to dry; store them away in a cool place and they will remain good for two months. 795—SCALLOPED EGGS. 6 hard-boiled eggs 1 cupful of breadcrumbs 1 gill gravy ^ cupful milk J lb. minced tongue or ham Salt and pepper. Mode.—Put half the breadcrumbs in the bottom of a buttered pie-dish ; season with pepper and salt; pour over them half of the gravy. Slice the eggs in thin slices, taking care not to break the yolk ; lay these evenly around the dish; then put over them the minced ham or tongue mixed with the remainder of the breadcrumbs and gravy ; pour over the milk and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. 796—EGG IN MILK. Mode.—Beat the white of an egg to a stiff froth; beat the juice of a lemon and the yolk together and strain into the stiffened white ; add a half a cup of milk and a teaspoonful of sugar,BREAKFAST DISHES. 797—BEEAKFA8T DISHES. Porridge or Boiled Eice. Scrambled Eggs. Devilled Boues. Eggs and Bacon. * Poached Eggs and Anchovy Toast. Minced Beef with a little Ham and Poached Eggs. Fried Fish. Omelette. Grilled Chop or Steak. Cold Steak Pie. Chicken Croquettes. Mutton Cutlets, Devilled Kidney. Minced Kidney on Toast. Grilled Kidney. Liver and Bacon. Hashed Mutton. Grilled Ham. Grilled Bacon. Baked Eo:gs. Buttered Eggs. Grilled Fish Devilled Sardines. Grilled Haddock. Salmon Eiissoles. « 798_POEEIDGE. 1 pt. water Salt 2 ozs. oatmeal. Mode.—Put the water into an enamelled saucepan (kept especially for porridge), when it boils add a tea- spoonful of salt, then when it boils fast add the oatmeal with one hand and stir it with the other; stir it well until it boils again, then stand it by the fire to simmer slowly for an hour.Breakfast Dishes. Another way is to soak the oatmeal in a little water over night, then add slowly to it the water, stirring all the time, put it on the fire and stir until it boils, allow it to simmer by the fire for half an hour. 799_BOILED EICE. Eice Boiling water. Mode.—Wash about a quarter of a pound of rice, have ready a saucepan of boiling water, drop the rice into it, add a little salt, stir for a minute or two with a small stick or large fork, boil for twenty minutes, strain and stand in an oven to keep warm until required; serve with sugar and milk, or if wanted for curry, sprinkle a little salt over it. 800—POTATO NEST (A nice breakfast dish.) 3 or 4 slices of ham 4 eggs J lb. cold potatoes Butter Cayenne. Mode.—Mash the potatoes and line a well buttered small pie-dish with them ; then cut the ham into slices about two inches square ; put these into the pie-dish on top of the potatoes and sprinkle with a little cayenne ; bake for about a quarter of an hour ; take it from the oven and break the eggs into it, being carefully not to break the yolks ; then return to the oven and bake until the eggs are well cooked BOl—SELE-EAISING ELOUE. 25 lbs. flour 12 ozs. cream of tartar 6 ozs. soda 3 ozs. sugar 3 ozs. salt. Mix well together. 802—MUTTON BONES USEFUL. Shanks of mutton make a good stock for nearly any kind of gravy, and as they are very cheap it is always wiseBreakfast Dhhea to keep some in a stock pot; you can get about a dozen for a penny, that will make a quart of excellent stock. 803~GEAVY. Mode.—Gravy will generally be lumpy if the thicken- ing isjpoured in while the pan is over the iire. T^ake the pan'ofi until ,the thickening is stirrc^d in, then set it on the fire and* cook well while stirring it.BEVERAGES. 804--TO MAKE TEA. Mode.—Tea making is like most things, there is a right and a wrong way of making it ; first of all be sure the water is boiling, have the teapot nicely dried out, then pour in a little boiling water and allow it to remain for a minute or so, throw that out and put in the tea, pour on it about half a pint of boiling water and allow it to stand for about three minutes, then you can put in the remainder of the water required. If the water is hard, a few grains of carbonate of soda will soften it, but great care must be taken not to use too much, otherwise it will spoil the tea altogether. 805— TO MAKE COFFEE. Mode.—Allow one tablespoonful of coffee to every half pint of boiling water, warm the pot, put the cofpf^e in and pour the water over it; coffee should not be boiled; pour out a little of the coffee and then put it back into the pot with a little cold water and a pinch of salt. A small muslin bag sewn to a ring made the size of the coffee-pot, to put the coffee in, is a very handy thing as it prevents the coffee going into the pot and renders straining un- necessasy, 806— TO MAKE COCOA. 1 dessertspoonful of cocoa 1 breakfastcupful of milk or water. Mode.—Put the cocoa into a cup and mix to a smooth paste with a little milk, then pour on the boiling water or milk and it is ready for use.Beverages. 807—GINGER BEEE. 1 lb. loaf sugar 1 oz cream of tartar 1 oz. best ginger (bruised) 1 lemon sliced 1 tablespoonful of yeast 1 gal. water. Mode.—Mix the sugar, ginger, cream of tartar and lemon, with the boiling water, stir until the sugar is dis- solved, let it stand until it is nearly cold, then add the yeast poured on a piece of bread set in the middle of the pin floating about in the mixture, cover with a cloth and allow it to stand for twenty-four hours, then strain and pour into bottles, filling each one about three-parts full, cork and tie down ; it will be ready for use in about two days. 808—GINGER BEER (Another way). Mode.— I'oil with two quarts of water, a quarter of a pound of ginger, four or five small chillies and a salt- spoonful of lice for two hours. Have ready in a two gallon bucket, two pounds of sugar and a dessertspoonful of cream of tartar, pour the former mixture over this and fill up the bucket with boiling water; then add the juice of a lemon or a teaspoonful of essence of lemon and a glass of beer Bottle next day in stone bottles. 809—GINGER BEER. Particularly for hot climates. lbs. loaf sugar J pt. honey I pt. lemon juice 4 ozs. bruised ginger s galls water Whites of two eggs. Mode—Boil the gmger in three or four quarts of water with the sugar for one hour, then add the lemon juice and horey with the remainder of the water, strain when cold, add the whisked whites of two eggs, and let it stand for a couple of days, then bottle.Beverages SIO—GINGER WINE. 6 ozs. bruised ginger J pt. brandy 12 lbs. sugar 2 tablespoonfuls of yeast 6 lemons 4 gals, of water. 1 lb. raisins stoned and chopped. Mode.—Eoil for one hour and akalf, the water, sugar, lemons and ginger, watch closely and remove the scum as it rises, when sufficienty boiled put into a tub, allow it to stand until nearly cold, then add the yeast; the next day- put it into a small cask with the chopped raisins, stir the wine every day for ten days, then add the brandy, stop the cask, and in two weeks it will be ready for bottling. 811—CLAEET CUP. 1 qt. bottle claret 1 teaspoonful of rennet or 1 lemon (juice) sliced cucumber J lemon (rind) Liqueur glass of curacoa 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 2 bottles soda water I lb. crushed ice. Mode.—Crush the ice and put into a jug with lemon juice and two or three slices of lemon, also the sugar, rennet or sliced cucumber and curacoa, then put in the claret and soda together, allow to stand three minutes, it is then ready for use. Of course, if you have a claret bowl it is best served m that and looks much nicer. 812—HOCK CUP. 1 qt. bottle of hock Liqueur glass of chartreuse 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar Liqueur glass of curacoa 2 lemons (juice) 2 bottles soda water J lb. crushed ice. Mode.—Put the crushed ice, lemon juice and a few slices of lemon with the other ingredients into a bowl, then pour in the hock and soda water together, stir it and allow it to stand for a minute or two, then it is ready for use.Ijeverages 813—CHAMPAGNE CUP. 1 qt. champagne 1 orange sliced 1 glass brandy 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar 2 bottles soda water J lb. crushed ice Juice of 2 lemons 2 liqueur glasses of curaeoa. Mode,—Put the crushed ice, juice of lemons, sliced orange, brandy, curaeoa, sugar, into a bowl, then pour in the champagne and soda water together, stir it, and it is ready for use. 814—LEMONADE. 4 lemons 1 pt. boiling water 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Mode.—Squeeze the lemons into a jug, remove all the pips, slice up the rind of one of the lemons, put that with the sugar into the jug and pour the boiling water over it; allow it to get cold, then strain, put half a tumbler of the mixture with half water. 815—POET ¥ INE NEGUS. 1 glass port wine Juice of ^ lemon J- pt. boiling water 1 teaspoonful sugar Nutmeg. Mode.—Put the wine into a glass with the lemon juice and sugar, grate a little nutmeg in, then fill up with boil- ing water, !^herry may also be used for this if preferred 816—SHEEEY COBBLEE. Crushed ice Bitters 1 glass of sherry Juice of ^ a lemon Liqueur glass curaeoa 1 teaspoonful sugar. Mode.—Fill a tumbler three-parts full with crushed ice, then put in the sugar, juice of the lemon, curaeoa, and two or three drops of bitters, stir altogether, then pour over the sherry Serve with a straw.Beverages 817— EUM PUNCH (Hot). 1 glass rum 1 tablespoonful of brandy 2 slices of lemon 1 tablespoonful of sugar A little nutmeg Boiling water. Mode.—Put the rum, slices of lemon, nutmeg/brandy and sugar, into a tumbler, then fill up with boiling water. 818— EUM PUNCH (Cjld). 1 bottle rum Wineglass curacoa 1 bottle sparkling hock "Wineglass brandy 4 tablespoonfuls sugar 2 qts. water J lb. crushed ice. Mode.—Put all the gredients into a punch bowFand serve with a ladle This is very good for a large party or a dinner. 819—ROMAN PUNCH, ^ pt. raspberry syrup Liqueur glass curacoa 2 glasses rum The juice of 2 lemons 1 glass brandy A few drops of bitters. Crushed ice Tablespoonful of sugar. Mode.—Mix the raspberry, rum, brandy, curacoa, lem(m juice, sugar and bitters together, put it into a bottle and shake it well; it is then ready for use. Fill up small tumblers with crushed ice, then pour over the punch. Before putting the ice in the tumblers rub the edge round with lemon and dip in sugar. Serve with straws 820—COCKTAIL. Glass of brandy, rum or Bitters whisky Juice of 1 lemon A little curacoa, benedictine 3 ozs. crushed ice and chartreuse Cloves.Mode.—Any spirit will do, Vvhicliever is desired ; put the brandy, liqueur, juice of lemon, about a liqueur glass of cloves, with the ice into a cocktail tin, shake all together for a minute ; this is sufficient for two. 821—AN AFTEK DINNEE COCKTAIL. 1 glass vermouth 1 glass whisky Juice of half a lemon Teaspoonful of sugar Crushed ice. Mode.—Put the ingredients into a cocktail tin, shake well and serve in wineglasses sufficient for two. 822- EGG NOG (Cold), Crushed ice 1 egg Little nutmeg 1 glass brandy or rum. Mode.—Beat the egg well, put it in the tumbler with the sugar, rum or brandy, stir all together well, fill the tumbler with crushed ice, grate a little nutmeg on top; serve with a straw. 823- -EGG NOG (Hot). Mode.—This drink is made the same as the cold egg nog, but you must use hot milk instead of ice. 824- JOHN COLLINS. Juice of 1 lemon 1 dessertspoonful curacoa Few drops bitters Crushed ice 1 wineglass of gin or whisky 1 bottle soda water 1 dessertspoonful of sugar. Mode.—Crush the ice and place it in a large glass, squeeze in the lemon and put in a little of the rind, then put in all the other ingredients but the soda water, when all is well mixed put in the soda.Beverages. 826—LEMON SYEUP. 4 lbs. sugar I tabiespoonful essence oJ 7 pts. of water lemon 1 teaspoonful tartaric acid. Mode.—Boil the sugar witli the water for a minute, take the scum from the top. When cool, add the essence of Ifemon and tartaric^ acid, strain and bottle. 826—WHOLESOME SUMME'R BRINK. 1 cupful of barley Juice and rind of 4 lemons Rind only of 4 Oranges 1 cupful of sugar 2 qts. of boiling water. Mode.—^Wash the barley well and j)ut it into a large jug with the sugar, rind of the oranges and the juice and rind of the lera^QUs, pour on the two qu^ts of boiling watex. Allow it to remjiin until qiiite cold, strain and add a little ice. It is then ready for use. 827—CHILLI BEER. Mode.—Six or eight chillies boiled in two quarts, of water with a saltspo'onful of rice for two hours. Have ready a bucket-, in which are two pounds of sug§,r and a dessertspt)onful of cream of tartar, pour the above^on to this and aj:d sufficient cold water to fill tl^e bucket, and a tumbler of^beervor yeast, bottle next day in glass bottles.IX MENUS FOR DINNER FOR SIX OR EIGHT PERSONS. 828—DINNER. No. 1. Oysters. Turtle Soup. Baked Barramundi. Beef Olives. Chicken Cream. Roast Fillet of Beef Jjarded. Roast Turkey and Bread Sauce. Asparagus on Toast. Angels Food. Cherries in Jelly, r Fruit in Season. . . Olives and Devilled Almonds. 829—DINNER. No. 2. Anchovies on Toast. Vermicelli Soup. Fillet of Whiting. Cutlejbs and Green Peas. Oyster Patties.Six Menus for Dinner for Six or Eight Persons- Boast Shoulder Mutton and Onion Sauco. Eoast Chicken and Bread Sauce. Angels on Horseback. Caramel Custard. Fruit Pie. Dessert. Coffee. .. 830--DTNNEE. No. 3. Russian Caviare. Clear Soup. Boiled Bream and Oyster Sauce. Spatch Cock Boast Sirloin Beef and Horseradish Sauce. Boast Wild Duck and Bussian Salad. Crab a la Francaise. Tipsy Cake. Queen Pudding. Devilled Almonds, etc. Dessert and Coffee. 831--DTNNEB. No. 4. Cod's Boe Cream. Oyster Soup.Six Mentis for Dinner for Six or Eight Pet sons. Fisli a la Boheinienne. Grilled Pigeon. Boiled Leg of Mutton and Caper Sauce. Eoast Wild Goose Larded. Liver Savoury. Apple Souffle. Bread aud Butter Pudding. Cheese Straws. Dessert. 832—DINNEP. No. 5. AncliovY Sandwiches. Tomato Soup. Grilled Barramundi and Sauce Genieveve. Chicken Cutlets. Poast Leg of Mutton. Boiled Chicken and Egg Sauce Boiled Bacon. Devilled Prawns. Canary Pudding. Pears in Jelly. Cheese Souffle. Dessert.SLv Menus for Dinner for Six or Eight Persons^ 833^DINNSE. No. 6. H er ri n g Ore am. Eeciie-de-iner Souj Barramiindi a La Normandie. vreetbread Outlets and Mashed Potatoes. -Roast Pork and Apple Sauce. Boiled Turkey and Oyster Sauce. Prawns Mantaiini. Lemon Jelly. Swiss Puddinr, Cheese Oaiiapes Dcssorfc.MENUS F©R DINNERS FOR FIFTEEN TO TWENTY PERSONS, 834-DINNEE. No. 1. Oyster Cocktails. Vermicelli Soup Clear Soup Baked Barramundi, Scalloped Fish. Chicken and Ham Pie. Stuffed Steak. Eoast Saddle of Mutton and Red Currant Jelly. Boast Bibs of Beef and Mushrooms. Boiled Tongue. Roast Wild Goose and Port Wine Sauce. Boiled Chicken and Egg Sauce. Devilled Prawns. Anchovy Canapfes. Gooseberry Fool. Apple Pie. Wine Jelly. Lemon Pudding. Cheese Straws. lJ(>ssort.Menus for Dinners for Fifteen to Twenty Ferwns- 835— DINNER. No. 2 (For 15 to 20 Persons). Oysters au Naturel. Turtle Soup. Julienne S')Up Boiled Mullet an<l Sauce Tar tare. Devilled Ojsters. CIiiciveTi Cream. Larded Swp^^threads. Roast Sucking Pig- and Ap[)le Sauce. Boast Loin of Mutton. Boiled TIani. Roast Duckling and Green Peas. Boiled Turkey and Celery Sauce. Liver Savoury. Prawns a la Francaise. Surprise Pudding Lemon 'Telly. Apple Pie Trifle. Chocolate Pudding. Cheese Straws Devilled Almonds Dessert 836— DINNER No. 3 (For 15 to 20 Pefsons) Anchovy Canapes. Beche-de-mer. Ox Tail Soup Boiled Fish and Oyster Sauce. Barramundi a la Normandie Oyster Patties Grilled PigeonMeniix for Din)ier.s for Fifteen to Twenty Fersons. Eoast Leg Mutton. Roast Fillet of Beef Larded. Roast Scrub Turkey and Bread Sauce. Roast Chicken and Rolled Bacon. As])arag'us Mayonnaise. Eggs au Grratin. Apple Charlotte. Verney Pudding. Pears in Jelly Queen Pudding. Devilled Biscuits. Vanilla Ices. Dessert. 837—DTNNEE. No. 4 (For 15 to 20 Persons). Herring Cream. Mulligatawny Soup. Sago Soup. Bream a la Creme. Prawns a la Fraiicaise. French Cutlets and Green Peas. Ragout of Veal. Roast Lamh and Mint Sauce. Fillet of Veal and Lemon Sauce. Boiled Ham. Boiled Ox Tongue. Roast Turkey and Bread Sauce. Roast Teal and Port Wine Sauce. Angels on Horseback.Menus forDimier^ for Fifteen to Twenty Persons^' Apricoi; Souffle. Queen Pudding. Macaroni Cream. Orange Snow. Cheese Soufilo. ,yMenm for Dinmrs for Fifteen to Twenty Persons. Coffee. 838—SPECIAL MENU. No. I. HORS D'CEUVRES :— Spanish Cream. SoTJP:— Consomme a la Bernois^. Fish :— Fillets Barramundi a la Moulia Rouge, Prawns au Beurre. Entree :- Sweetbreads a la CUiassuer. Savoury:— Ancliovy Canapes. Joint :—• Larded Fillet Beef and Mushroom Sauce. Poultry :— Eoast Turkey and Truffles. Eoast Duckling aux Pommes Eissoli. Marrow on Toast. Sweets, etc. :— Lemon Jelly. Caramel Pudding. Trifle. Yerney Pudding. Cheese Souffle. Devilled Almonds Olive Farcies.Menus for Dinners for Fifteen to Twenty Ferson»» Coffee. 839—SPECIAL MENU. No. 2. HORS D'CEUVBES. Caviare. Soup:— Clear Soup. Fish :— Fillets of Soles au Beurre. Entree:— Larded Sweetbreads and Green Peas, Savoury :— Anchovy Canapes. Joints :— Roast Lamb and Mint Sauce. Fillet of Beef. Poultry :— Eoast Chicken and Rolled Ham. Savoury :— Prawns a la Francaise. Sweets, etc. :— Pears in Jelly. Verney Pudding. Iced Sago Pudding. Sweet Omelette. Cheese Straws. Olives. Almonds, etc.TWENTY-ONE ECONOMICAL DINNERS FOR EVERY DAY IN THE WEEK. 840— -SUNDAY. Koast Hindquarter Lamb. Green Peas. Cabbage. Baked Potatoes. Macaroni Cheese. Apple Pie. Pice Pudding. 841— MONDAY. Cold Roast Lamb and Salad. If any Vegetables left, fry them, if not, Mashed Potatoes- Stewed Fruit and Rice. 842— TUESDAY. Steak and Kidney Pie. Boiled Potatoes and Cabbage. Suet Pudding and Treacle. Cheese Souffle. 843—WEDNESDAY. Small Boiled Leg of Mutton and Caper Sauce. Boiled Potatoes. Carrots and Turnips. Devilled Sardines. Boiled Apple Pudding. 844- THURSDAY. Mutton Broth, made from the Liquor in which the Mutton was boiled.Fconomical Dinners. Cold Leg of Mutton and Potato Salad. Boiled Potatoes. .Baked Custard. Stewed Fruit. 845—FKIDAY. Ciiri:ied Mutton and Rice. Cabbage and Potatoes. Cheese Canapes. Baked Apples in Batter. 816—SATURDAY. Cutlets and Piquante Sauce. French Beans and Potatoes. Plain Bread Pudding. 847— SUNDAY. Soup. Roast Sirloin of Beef. Baked Potatoes. Cabbage. Savoury Eggs. Plain Plum Pudding and Boiled Custard. 848— MONDAY. Cold Roast Beef and Beetroot. Fried Potatoes. Custard Tarts. Macaroni Cheese. 849— TUESDAY. Soup made from the bone of the Beef and Vegetables. Hashed Beef. Roast Tomatoes. Boiled Potatoes. Apple Pudding.Economical Dinners. 850— WEDNESDAY. Roast Fowl and Bread Sauce. Baked Potatoes. Green Peas. Tapioca Pudding. 851— THUESDAY. Chicken Pie, made from remains of Cold Cliicken. Small Loin Mutton (roast) and Onion Sauco. Koast Potatoes. Baked Onions. Victoria Pudding-. 852-FRIDAY. Boiled Fish and Parsley Sauce. Cold Loin of Mutton and Salad, Mashed Potatoes. Vermicelli Puddinjr. 853—SATURDAY. Fish Cakes, made from Cold Fish. Haricot Mutton Chops. Boiled Potatoes. Canary Pudding. 854—SUNDAY. Roast Duck and Green Peas (tinned will do). Roast Potatoes. Cabbage. Eggs au Gratin. Apricot Cream. 855—MONDAY. Stewed Duck. Boiled Potatoes. Green Peas. Bread and Butter Pudding.JEconomical Bwners. 856—TUESPAY. Boiled Corned Beef. Boiled Potatoes. Carrots and Turnips. Baked Eice Pudding. Suet Dumplings. 857—WEDNESDAY. Pea Soup, made from the liquor of the Beef. Cold Beef and Potato Salad. Blanc Mange and Jam. 858—THUESDAY. Dry Hash, made from Cold Beef. Cabbage and Potatoes. Welch Earebit. Tapioca Pudding. 859—FEIDAY. Fried Fish or Salmon Eissoles Braized Sheep's Head. Boiled Potatoes. Turnips. Batter Pudding. 860—SATUEDAY. Grilled Steak and Oyster Sauce. Fried Potatoes. Cheese Souffle. Boiled Jam Pudding.DINNER FOR FIFTY TO ONE HUNDRED PERSONS. 861—MENU. Oysters au Naturel. So¥P:— Beche-(Ie-mer. VermiGella. Fish : — Boiled Barramundi and Oyster Sauce. Fillet of Whiting. Entrees:— Pate de foi Gras. Oyster Patties. Spatch Cock. Joints :— Poast Sirloin Beef and-Horse^Paddish. Poast S dd'le Mutton and Ped Currant Jelly. Boiled Leg Mutton and Caper Sauce. Boiled Pound Beef. Tongue and Ham. Poultry :~- Poast Turkey and Truffles. Poast Duckling and Grreen Peas. Poast Wild GoOse and Port Wine Sauce Savouries : Devilled Prawns. Anchovy Canapes. Vegetables :— Baked and Boiled Potatoes. Green Peas. Cabbage. Asparagus. Sweets :— Trifle. Tipsy Cake. Strawberry Jelly. Cheese Cakes. Goosebery Fool. Cheese Souffle. Crab a la Franc^se. Cheese Straws. Devilled Almond. Celery. Gorgonzola Cheese. Lobster Salad|^ Fruits in Season. Preserved Fruits. Ices.Fruits in Season. THREE MENUS FOR SUPPERS FOR 100 OR 150 PERSONS. 862—MENU No. 1. Beclie-de-mer Soiip. Soused Barranimuiidi. Oyster Patties. Crab Quenelles. Prawns in aspic. Gelatine of Yeal. Sirloin of Beef. Corned Hound of Beef. Pressed. Tongue. Ham. Boast Turkey. Eoa^t Chicken. Boast Duckling. Gelatine of Turkey. Chicken Cream in Aspic Jelly. Salads, Potato Salad. Asparagus Mayonnaise. Lobster Mayonnaise. Tomatoes, etc. Boiled New Potatoes. Green Peas. Lemon Jelly. Angels Food. Trifle. Apricot Cream. Tipsey Cake. Pears in Jelly. Strawberries and Cream. Assorted Pastry. Cheese Straws. Devilled Almonds. Olives. Crystalized Fruits. Coffee.Fruits in Season. Three Menus for Suppers for One Hundred or One Hundred and Fifty Persojts. 863—MENU No. 2. Turtle Soup. Fish a la Yictoria. Prawns a la Francaiso, Chicken Cream. Mayonnaise of Turkey, Pigeon Pie. Poast Turkey. Boast Chicken. Eoast Ducklings. Pound of Beef. Saddle of Mutton and Eed Currant Jelly. Ham, Tomato Salad. Watercress. Pussian Salads. Australian Salads. Macaroni Cream. Orange Moulds. Sponge SoufS<^. Wine Jelly. Banana Trifle. Apple Snow. Custard Tarts. riiieap2')le Jelly Vanilla Ices. Chocolate Cream lees. Assorted Pastry. Olives Farcies. Cheese Straws. Devilled Almonds, etc. etc.Three Menus for Suppers for One Hundred or One Hundred and Fifty Persom, 864~-MENU No. 3. Oyster Soup. Baked Fish. Scalloped O^'sters. Turtle Fins on Toast, Game Pie. Eggs an Gratin. Saute of Pigeon, Larded Fillet of Beef. Hunch of Mutton and Red Currant Jejly. Pressed Corned Mutton. Pound of BiBef. Pressed Tongue. Ham. Cold Eoast Chickens. Gelatine of Turkey. Eoast Goose. Eoast Wild Duck. Pootato Salad. French Salads. Cucumber Salads. Beetroot and Tomatoes. Almond Pudding. Apple Whip. Surprise Pudding. Apricot Jelly. Coffee Jelly. Tipsey Cake. Granadilla Cream. Lemon Cream. Apple Snow. Angels Food. Assorted Pastry. Olives. Cheese Darlings. Almonds. Preserves, etc.RECIPES FOR SPECIAL MENUS. (Eecipes for Savouries, &c., found in other parts of the book). 865—CONSOMME A lA BEENOISE, Mode.—Clear soup (Eecipe No. 2) and custard made with the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two well beaten, pepper and salt to taste ; butter a flat plate ; pour on the mixture and steam for fifteen minutes ; when cold cut into very thin diamond-shaped pieces and serve with the soup. 866—FILLETS OF BAEEAMUNDI A LA MOULIA EOUGE, Mode.—Cut the fish into pieces of about three inche.^ square; pepper and salt them and dry on a clean clotL Boll each piece neatly, dip into milk and then into bread crumbs ; pack them tightly in a pie-dish; pour in aboul half a pint of milk ; add some more pepper and salt, and put a piece of butter about the size of a nut on each piece of fish, and bake a nice brown. Slice some beetroot and soak in some white sauce highly seasoned and serve with the fish. 867—SWEETBEEADS A LA CHASSEUE. Mode.—Get, if possible, calf's throat sweetbreads put them into a basin of warm water with a little salt, allow them to soak about an hour, changing the water four times; then cut them into pieces of about two inches square ; pepper and salt them ; roll in a little flour ; dip into egg well beaten, then into breadcrumbs, and fry a .nice golden brown in a pan nearly full of boiling dripping. Serve each piece of sweetbread on French beans nicely cooked, and a slice of lemon.Eecipes for Special Menus. 868—LARDED FILLET OF BEEF. Mode.—Get a nice fillet of beef, about six or seven pounds ; tie it neatly, then lard it with thin slices of bacon, one strip to about every two inches of meat. Rub it over with a little fiour ; pepper it well and use plenty of salt; cover with a well buttered paper and bake. 869—MUSHROOM SAUCE. Mode.—Boil one pint of milk, add pepper and salt to taste ; get two tins of black English mushrooms and boil with the milk for about ten minutes ; thicken with a little flour, and add about a dessertspoonful of butter. 870—ROAST TURKEY AND TRUFFLES. Mode.—Make a nice stuffing for the turkey of the giblets minced, and a tin of pate-de-fois gras, breadcrumbs, parsley, salt and pepper (oriental salt is very good for seasoning stuffing); mix all well together ; add a little butter and one egg ; stuff the turkey and sew over the loose skin ; rub it over with a little flour, pepper and salt; cover with a buttered paper and bake. Truffles are bought either in tins or bottles (the bottled ones being the best) ; boil them in water with a little salt for an hour ; then just heat in the baking tin with the turkey, one being sufficient for each person. 87i_ROAST DUCKLINO AUX POMMES RISSOLI. Mode.—Roast the duckling a nice brown, and make small rissoles about the size and shape of a cork of four apples put through a sausage machine with two or three leaves of sage ; mix them with about three ounces of breadcrumbs, pepper and salt, a tablespoonful of butter and one egg (just enough to make it moist), roll it into shape, dip in egg and breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling fat.USEFUL HmTS. 872-TO POLISH GLASS. When washing glasses which have been used for milk, it is best to rinse them in cold water and then in hot, if not, they will not be made look nice and bright. 873—TO EEVIYE CUT FLOWEES. Mode.—Put the stalks into boiling water and leave them in it until the water is cold, then cut the ends of the stalks and stand in cold water. 874—TO CLEAN KID BOOTS. Mode.—A good thing to clean kid boots or shoes with, is Lucca oil, it prevents them from cracking, and also renders them very soft to wear. 875—A GOOD POLISH FOE FUENITUEE. Mode.—Mix together one pint of linseed oil, one pint vinegar, and one pint of turpentine, put all in a bottle and skake it well, when it is required for use, and apply with a piece of old flannel and polish with a soft duster. 876— A GOOD POLISH FOE FUENITUE. (Another Way). Mode.—Mix in a saucer equal parts of Lucca oil and vinegar, and apply with a piece of flannel; it is best to mix it just before it is required. 877— TO CLEAN WHITE STEAW HATS. Mode.—To clean white straw hats, a solution of oxalin acid and warm water will be found to answer the purj)ose if rubbed into the straw wdth a stiff brush.Useful Hints. 878—TO CLEAN DARK SKIRTS. Mode.—Dark skirts can be made look almost as good as new if cleaned with strong blue water. To keep brightly colored prints from running, when they are washed add a little vingar to the water. Oil and water beaten together until it becomes thick is a very good remedy for burns. Sugar eaten with bananas renders them more digest- able To loosen a glass stopper from a bottle, pour on a drop of salad oil and allow it to st ind for a minute then the stopper can be removed (juite easily. 879—TO CLEAN TAIWANESE MATTING. Japonese matting should never be washed with soap, it should be well brusJied. then wiped over with a cloth wrung out of salt and water. 880—TO CLEAN OILCLOTHS. Oil cloths may be made to look bright and nice by washing them over with skimmed milk ; it is not wise to use a scrubbing brush, a rough towel is very good. 881—INK STAINS. Ink stains may be taken out of white cloths by rub- bing the part with lemon and salt, then washing. 882—TO CLEAN ENAMELLED SAUCEPANS. To clean enamelled saucepans if brown, rub them well with coarse salt, then wash in hot soda water.Useful Hints. 883—TO MAKE STAECH FOE SHIETS. To make starch for sHirts dissolve a little lump borax in boiling water and mix^'it with the starch, it prevents the iron from sticking and makes a nice gloss on the shirt. 884—TO CLEAN lEONS. When ironing you. should always have an old bag with some kerosene and bath brick on, and rub the iron well on it when very hot, then rub the iron on a nice clean cloth to make sure it is perfectly clean ' 885—TO KILL COCKEOAOHES. A teacupful of plaster of paris well bruised, mixed with a double quantity of oatmeal, to which add a little sugar and two ounces of arsenic, strew this on the floor, shelves, or in the crevices where they are. 886—BEIGHT LIGHT, A piece of camphor put in the oil of a lamp will cause a much brighter light, especially good for bicycle lamps. 887— TO CLEAN DECANTEES. To clean decanters tear up a newspaper and roll up pieces about the size of a pea, drop them into the decanter, wash it well with hot soda and water, potato parings or tea leaves are equally good. 888— TO BLANCH ALMONDS. To blanch almonds put them into a dish and pour boiling water over them, this swells the skin and makes it easy to remove. 889—THE USE OF LIEBIG. Liebjg is a most useful thing to have in any house, as almost any kind of soup can be made from it, also gravies.TTseful Hints, Spread on bread and butter it makes most savoury sand- wiches ; also for aspic jelly it is most useful and can be made in much less time than if you had to use fresh meat, 890—INSECTS IN CUPBOAEDS. Wnsh the cu[)hoar(l well with carboh'c acid, or paint the shelves with turpentine is also a g'ood thing.THE TOILET. 891—THE TOILET. Much care is necessary in a warm climate to retain a healthy and firm skin, and the chief means to prolong youth is careful attention to the bath. First a toilet bath, which is intended not only as a means to cleanliness, but as an aid to health and vigour, should be warm but not hot, this rids the skin of dust and perspiration, as well as preserving it from cutaneous diseases ; but as a beautifier simple water bMhs are not beneficial. Bran and starch make the skin soft and white, there- fore, should be used only for the face, arms and shoulders ; but for a friction bath, ammonia, eau-de-cologne, vinegar and salt are better, they help to make the skin hard and firm. A quart of vinegar in an ordinary sized bath is very refreshing; this can be aromatized by soaking in the vinegar previously a few drahms of rosemary, camphor, sage, mint or lavender. Opoponax answers the same purpose but is more ex- pensive, it has, however, the most refreshing e:ffect of any toilet bath. Vinegar mixed** with alcohol, say a quart in an ordinary sized bath, makes the skin hard and firm and is beneficial and soothing for prickly heat. An equal quantity of lemon juice and rose water and glycerene, mixed with the white of an egg (which has been previously beaten up), removes sumburn and freckles, and renders the skin soft and delicate. w' : : . - ■ - .The Toilet. Any lotion liable to soften the skin is not to be advo- cated in a warm climate, as it makes the skin susceptable to sunburn and roughness by contact with wind or sun It is, therefore, better for xALUstralian or Indian ladies to en- courage the use of aromatic vinegars for the toilet, there- fore hardening and cleaning the skin at the same time. More care should be taken of the evening toilet than of the day; all powder and dust should be removed before retiring and a little cream rubbed well into the skin, a little rice powder can also be U'sed (provided the powder is of the finest) ; common yellow vaseline is also good for the night toilet, white vaseline, lanoline or any pure white cream should be used in the day; on no account should powder be used without this is first applied, it also tends to make the complexion appear white. Soap is not good for the complexion, it renders the skin stiff, chapped aud scaly by exposure, and also inclines it to redness and sunburn, but some soaps made especially for the face and hands can be used with safety if at riight, not in the day, cuticura or arsenical soap are both good and keep the skin healthy. No lotion (unless containing grease) should be left on the face at night, it is liable to promote wrinkles, the skin should Dot remain damp, but should be well, though not roughly dried. A complexion inclined to salldwness or paleness should not be powdered with pink powder, cream or white should be used, and for a florid complexion pink powder is better, a chamois leather is the best puff that can be used for applying powder to the face, it is smoother than a pufp, therefore covers the skin more evenly; powder is notThe Toilet. injurious to the skin if a little greese is used first. Almond oil is excellent for use under powder, it also preserves the flesh from wrinkles. Lemon or orange peel soaked will make a good soaj) for the face if used at night, the same might be said of sliced cucumber. Leave them in the water as long as they remain sweet they soften the water and give it a pleasant fragrance. Sage is good for the teeth and can be used to rub them instead of a tooth brush, as the teeth should be washed after every meal, rubbing would be less injurious than brushing ; a little myrrh in water to rinse the mouth should be used at least once a day, it will prevent the teeth from decaying and also sweeten the breath. Make a mixture of half a pint of vinegar and half a pint of toilet vinegar. Take a lump of quick lime the size of a walnut, put it into a pint of boiling water, allow it to stand all the night, then strain it and add to the other ; this rubbed well into the head is perfectly harmless and will remove the dandruff. A remedy for burns which is said to allay pain im- mediately, is to put kerosene on the parts, then rub over with flour. An ointment made of hogs lard and boracic acid and a little oxide of zinc, put on the affected parts is very relieving for sunburn. To make the hands nice and soft wash them at bed- time in hot water and oatmeal, then rub them with glycerine and cucumber jelly.INDEX Paragraph. BEEF ENTREES— Eeef a la Espagnole .. 221 Beef a la Mode .. .. 198 Beef Croquets ., .. 184 Beef Olives . . .. 192 Beef Patties 217 Boiled Ox Tongue .. 210 Braized Steak .. .. 205 Broiled Steak .. .. 209 Bubble and Squeak .. 223 Casseroles of Cold Meat 204 Cold Meat and Rice Pie 228 Curried Beef .. 190 Devilled Kidney .. 196 Dry Hash .. ..189 Eillet Steak and Maca- roni 234 Grilled Steak or Chops 200 Hamburg Steak No. 1 .. 201 Hamburg Steak No. 2 .. 233 Haricot Ox Tail .. 224 Hashed Beef .. ..185 Plot Pot Pie .. ..219 Kidney a la Milanese .. 194 Kidney Saute and Mush- rooms .. .. 232 Kidney Omelette .. 231 Minced Beef .. ..188 Minced Beef and Poached Eggs .. .. 199 Minced Kidney on Toast 195 Pour Man's Pie .. .. 229 Porterhouse Steaks (larded) .. .. 202 Potato Pie .. .. 225 Potted Tongue .. .. 212 Pressed Ox Tongue .. 211 Savoury Calf's Liver .. 227 Savoury Meat Pie ,, 191 Savoury Steak . > .. 226 Paragraph, Beef Entrees—^?o;?^mwc6;? Sea Pie 218 Steak and Kidney Pie .. 214 Steak and Kidney Pud- ding .. ..215 Steak and Oyster Pie .. 213 Steak Patties .. ..216 Stewed Beef and Celery 208 Stewed Beef and Mush- rooms .. .. 186 Stew^e.d Brisket Beef and Beans .. ..222 Stewed Beef and Walnuts 187 Stewed Kidneys .. 197 Stewed Ox Tail and Tomatoes .. ..207 Stewed Ox Tail and Walnuts .. ..206 Stewed Steak .. .. 203 Stulfed Boler of Beef .. 230 Stuffed Steak or Beef .. 193 Toad in the Hole .. 220 BEVERAGES— Champagne Cup 813 Chilli Beer .. .. 827 Claret Cup .. .. 811 Cocoa, To make.. 806 Cocktail 820 Cocktail (an after dinner) 821 Coffee, To make .. 805 Egg-Nog (cold).. .. 822 Egg-Nog (hot) .. .. 823 Ginger Beer .. .. 807 Ginger Beer (another way) .. ..808 Ginger Beer (especially for hot climates) .. 809 Ginger Wine 810 Hock Cup .. .. 812Index. Paragraph. Beveea^es—con tinned. John Collins .. .. 824 Lemonade .. 814 Lemon Syrup .. .. 825 Port Wine Negus 815 Rum Punch (hot) 817 Rum Punch (cold) 818 Roman Punch .. .. 819 Sherry Cobler .. .. 816 Summer Drink, a whole- some .. .. 826 Tea, To make .. .. 804 BREAD— Bread, To make .. 721 Bread, made over night 722 Bread, Useful hints about 722 Bread, kneading .. 723 Dough .. .,724 Fancy Bread .. .. 681 Self Raising Flour, To make .. 801 Yeast, To make.. .. 720 BREAKFAST DISHES— Anchovy Toast and Poached Eggs .. 790 Baked Eggs .. .. 789 Buttered Eggs .. 471 Beef and Poached Eggs 190 Chicken Croquets .. 268 Cold Steak Pie .. 214 Devilled Bones .. .. 284 Devilled Sardines 501 Devilled Kidneys 196 Eggs, boiled .. .. 781 Eggs and Bacon .. 788 Eggs, Poached .. .. 782 Fried Fish .. 32 Grilled Bacon ..793 Grilled Fish .. .. 42 Grilled Ham .. ..792 Grilled Haddock or Salmon .. .. 72 Grilled Chops or Steak.. 200 Grilled Ki&ey .. .. 172 Paragraph. Breakfast Dirtly.s—continued. Hashed Mutton.. .. 156 Liver and Bacon .. 183 Minced Kidney on Toast 173 Omelette.. .. .. 791 Potato Nest (a nice Breakfast Dish) .. 800 Porridge 798 Rice, Boiled .. .. 799 Salmon Rissoles ,, 62 Scrambled eggs.. 784 Vermicelli Porridge 616 CAKES— Almond Cakes .. .. 657 Almond Ginger Bread .. 713 Angels Cake .. .. 698 Arrowroot Cake., 696 Brandy Snaps ,, .. 701 Butter Cakes .. ., 667 Caraway Cake .. .. 704 Champagne Biscuits .. 670 Cheese Cakes .. . • 684 Chocolate Cakes.. .. 686 Cinnamon Biscuits .. 700 Cocoanut Biscuits • • 705 Cocoanut Cake .. .. 699 Cocoanut Pyramids ,. 718 Cornflour Cake .. .. 710 Cornflour Cakes 691 Cream Puffs .. .. 662 Cream Tarts .. .. 690 Derbyshire Sponge .. 715 Desdemonas and Othellos 678 Dessert Cakes .. .. 703 Drop Cakes .. .. 685 Dundee Cake .. .. 672 Fancy Bread .. 681 French Cake .. .. 697 French Pancake.. .. 717 Gems ..671 Ginger Cake .. ,r 679 Ginger Cakes .. .. 666 Ground Rice Cake .. 689 Hidden Treasure Buns 659 King Cake .. .. 696Index. Cakes—continued Lemon Cakes Lemon Drops .. London Buns Marble Cake Milk Biscuits .. Oatmeal Biscuits Orange Biscuits.. Orange Cake Orange Rock Cakes Plain Cake, A nice Queen Savarin Rainbow Cake Ratafia Drops Record Cakes Ribbon Cake Rock Cakes Sandwicb Cake (quick) Scones Short Bread Snow Cake Sponge Cake Sponge Cake (another way) Sultana Cake Tea Cakes Victoria Sandwiches Victoria Sponge Walnut Cakes ., Walnut Cream Sandwich Wheatmeal Scones Paragraph. 680 716 661 664 669 719 683 707 665 706 711 687 663 712 708 702 714 656 668 692 693 658 673 682 688 674 709 660 CHICKEN AND FOWL RECIPES— Braeside Patties ., 280 Chicken a la Reine .. 283 Chicken and Ham Pie .. 267 Chicken Cream .. .. 269 Chicken Cream in Tomato Aspic .. ..282 Chicken Croquets .. 268 Chicken Cutlets.. .. 275 Chicken for an Invalid 273 Chicken Fricadel ■,. 274 Chicken J^ritters and To- matoes .. 288 Paragraph. Chicken and Fowl Recipes— continued Chicken in Aspic Chicken Kromiskies Chicken Mayonnaise Country Captain Curried Chicken Devilled Bones .. Fricassee Chicken Fried Fowl and Tomato Sauce G-alatine of Chicken Hashed Fowl PillauofFowl .. Stewed Chicken and Rice Stewed G-iblets and Lemon Sauce Spatch Cock To bone a Chicken ,, 278 281 279 271 266 284 264 287 276 285 270 265 286 272 277 CRABS— Crabs . 103 Crabs a la Francaise , . 110 Crab Croquets .. . 112 Crab Entree .. . 109 Crab Mayonnaise . 107 Crab Patties . 113 Crab Quenelles .. . 108 Devilled Crab .. . Ill Hot Dressed Crab . 105 Potted Crab . 114 Scalloped Crab .. . 106 To Boil Crabs .. . 104 CHUTNEYS AND PICKLES— 753 Capsicum Chutney Mango Chutney Pickled Beetroot Pickled Cabbage Pickled Capsicums Pickled Cucumbers Pickled Cucumbers (an other way) ., Pickled Eggs .. Pickled Limes .. 749 740 745 741 747 748 742 743Index, Paragraph. Chutneys & Vic^'LEs—continued Pickled Limes ('another way) .. .. 744 Pickled Onions .. .. 746 Tomato Chutney .. 750 Tomato Chutney (an- other way) .. .. 751 Tomato Relish .. ..752 Tomato Sauce .. .. 738 Tomato Sauce (another way) ,. .. 739 CURRIES— Country Captain .. 271 Curried Beef .. .. 190 Curried Chicken ,. 226 Curried Eggs .. .. 487 Curried Fish .. .. 84 Curried Lobster.. ., 68 Curried Mutton.. .. 160 Curried Oysters.. 82 Curried Prawns., .. 118 Curried Vegetables .. 387 EGGS- BakedEggs ..789 Boiled Eggs .. ..781 Eggs and Bacon .. 788 Eggs and Breadcrumbs 787 Eggs, To choose .. 780 Eggs in Cases .. .. 786 Eggs in Milk ,. ,. 796 Eggs, To preserve .. 794 Eggs, Grilled Ham for .. 792 Eggs,, Grilled Bacon for.. 793 Eried'Eggs .. .. 782 Omelette .. ..791 Poached Eggs .. .. 783 Poached Eggs and An- chovy Toast .. 790 Savoury Eggs .. .. 785 Scrambled Eggs.. .. 784 Scalloped Eggs .. .. 795 PISH-^ Barr^mundi a la Nor- mandie. .. .. 34 Paragraph. Fish—continued Barramundi au Gratin .. 56 Baked Fish .. .. 43 Brown Stewed Fish ., 35 Brown Stewed Fish .. 58 Curried Fish .. .. 48 Fish a la Bohemmiene.. 40 Fish a la Creme.. .. 46 Fish a la Victoria .. 54 Fish and Lemon Sauce.. 52 Fish and Macaroni ., 53 Fish and Oyster Pie ,. 61 Fish Balls .. .. 41 Fish Cakes .. .. 44 Fish Pie (No. 1).. .. 50 Fish Pie (No. 2).. .. 55 Fish Souffle .. .. 39 Fried Fish .. .. 32 Fried Whiting .. .. 33 Grilled Fish and Sauce Genevieve .. .. 42 Savoury Boiled Fish .. 57 Savoury Stewed Fish .. 37 Scalloped Fish 38 Soused Fish .. .. 45 Steamed Fish .. ,. 51 Stewed Fish and Kleiz.. 60 Stewed Fish in Milk .. 49 Stewed Fish (Jewish) .. 36 To boil any fish.. .. 31 White Bait (mock) .. 59 Whiting in Butter ., 47 FISH, TINNED— Cod's Roe and Cream .. 66 Curried Lobster.. ., 68 Devilled Sardines .. 64 Fried Haddocks .. 70 Fritters of Salmon .. 74 Grilled Salmon .. .. 72 Haddocks a la Bohemi- enne.. ., 76 Haddock Souffle .. 65 Herrings Pickled .. 78 Lobster Cutlets .. .. 67 Salmon au Gratin ,. 77Index, Paragraph. Fish, Tinned—cow^i^w^c? Salmon Marbles and Lemon Sauce .. 73 Salmon Rissoles.. .. 62 Salmon Sojiffle .. .. 63 Sardine Fritters .. 69 Savoury of Haddocks .. 71 Scalloped Lobster .. 75 FRITTERS & PANCAKES- Apple Fritters .. .. 594 Banana Fritters, same as 594 Bread Fritters .. .. 595 Bread Fritters (another way) .. .. 596 German Toast .. .. 607 Indian Fritters .. .. 58 3 Motzo Pancakes (Jewish) 610 Nuns' Fritters .. .. 570 Orange Fritters, same as 594 Pancakes.. .. .. 597 Pineapple Fritters, same as ... ..594 GAME- Braized Pigeons., ,. 435 Jugged Hare .. .. 427 Jugged Pigeons.. .. 433 Jugged Wallaby .. 426 Pigeon Pie .. .. 434 Pigeons a la Neapolitana 441 Rabbit Pie .. .. 429 Ragout of Turkey (wild) 425 Ragout of Wild Duck .. 440 Roast Hare .. .. 428 Roast Pigeon and Oyster Stuffing .. ..432 Roast Rabbit .. .. 430 Roast Pigm}^ Goose (Oyster Stuffing) .. 420 Roast Scrub Turkey .. 437 Roast Teal .. .. 419 Roast Wallaby .. .. 421 ■ Roast Wild Duck .. 416 Roast Wild Duck .. 424 Paragraph. Game—continued Roast Wild Goose (larded) .. ..417 Roast Wild Turkey (liver . stuffing) .. .. 418 Roast Wonga Pigeon .. 439 Salme of Wild Duck .. 422 Salme of Wild Goose .. 423 Saute of Pigeon .. 436 Stewed Rabbit .. 431 Scrub Turkey, The .. 438 ICE CREAMS, Etc.— Chocolate Cream Ices ,. 655 Freeze, How to without a machine .. .. 647 Granadilla Ices .. .. 651 Lemon Water Ices .. 653 Passionfruit Ices .. 652 Pineapple Ices , .. 650 Roman Ices .. .. 654 Syrup for water Ices .. 649 Vanilla Ice Cream .. 648 ICING FOR CAKES— Chocolate Icing.. .. 676 Icing for Coffee Cake .. 677 Soft Icing .. .. 675 INVALID COOKERY— Apple Water .. .. 305 Barley Water .. .. 297 Barley Water (another way) 298 Beef Jelly .. ..292 Beef Tea \ \ .. ..290 Beef Tea (quickly made) 290 Beef Tea and Egg .. 304 Chicken Broth .. .. 293 Chicken Jelly .. .. 295 Dyspepsia .. .. 300 Egg Drink .. 306 Grilled Chicken.. .. 294 Gruel 289 Light Pudding .. .. 310 Light Pudding (another way).. 311Index, Paragraph. Invalid Qooismst—contimted Minced Beef ..307 Mutton Broth ..299 Omelette 309 Savoury Custard .. 303 Savoury Sago ., .. 302 Spatch Cook .. .. 308 Steamed Fisli with Sauce 301 Toast and Water .. 296 JAMS AND PRESERVES— Canned Cumquats .. 766 Canned Peaches.. .. 770 Fruit Salad ..774 Guava Jelly .. .. 760 Mango Jam .', .. 769 Marmalade .. .. 763 Orange Marmalade .. 764 Orange Marmalade (an- other way) .. .. 765 Orange Jam ., .. 772 Orange Straws .. .. 773 Piemelon Jam .. .. 761 Pineapple Jam .. .. 758 Pineapple Jam (another way) 579 Pawpaw Preserve .. 779 Preserved Cumquats .. 767 Preserved Cumquats (an- other way) .. .. 768 Preserved Melon ,. 777 Preserved Pineapple ., 757 Prickly Pear Jelly .. 762 Quince Jelly .. .. 771 RosellaJam .. .. 754 Bosella Jelly .. .. 755 Roselia Jelly (another way) .. ..756 Syrup, to clarify and make .. ..778 Tomato Jam .. .. 776 Vegetable Marrow Jam 775 JELLIES AND CREAMS— Angels' Food .. .. 636 Aspio Jelly .... 622 Paragraph, Jellies and C^-^m.^—continued Banana Cream .. .. 624 Banana Trifle .. .. 640 Calf's Foot Jelly .. 620 Claret Jelly .. ..619 Coffee Jelly .. ..629 Cream all the year round 637 Granadilla Jelly .. 638 Granadilla Jelly (another way) .. .. B39 Lemon Qream .. .. 644 Lemon Jelly .. .. 627 Lemon Jelly (another way) .. .. 628 Macaroon Cream .. 618 Mullberry Snow Cream 630 Orange Cream .. .. 634 Orange Jelly .. .. 646 Orange Moulds ,. .. 645 Pineapple Jelly .. .. 642 Pineapple Jelly (another way) .. .. 643 Prickly Pear Jelly .. 626 Prickly Pear, the .. 625 Rhubarb Jelly .. .. 632 Rhubarb Meringue ,. 633 Roselia Cream .. .. 631 Sponge Souffle .. .. 635 Strawberry Cream .. 617 Sweet Omelette .. .. 623 TuttiFrutti .. ..641 Wine Jelly .. .. 621 MISCELLANEOUS— Breakfast Dishes .. 797 Boiled Rice ... .. 799 Fruit Salad ..774 Gravy .. .. .. 803 Mutton Bones Useful .. 802 Pork Pies .. '.. 182 Porridge 798 Potato Nest .. ..800 Self Raising Flour .. 801 MUTTON ENTREES— Brain Cutlets .. .. 163 Brains in Torture .. 139Tndex, Paragraph. MiJTTON Entrees—eoniinued Brain Omelette .. .. 140 Cutlets a la Julienne .. 132 Cutlets a la Reform .. 133 Cutlets and French Beans 135 Cutlets in Aspic .. 180 Cutlets & Piquante Sauce 134 Curried Mutton.. .. 160 Devilled Kidney 171 French Cutlets .. 130 Fricasseed Brains .. 138 Fricasseed Sheep*s Head 142 Fricasseed Sheep's Tongues .. .. 147 Fricasseed Sheep's Trotters .. .. 166 Hashed Mutton.. 156 Haricot Mutton .. 157 Haricot Mutton (another way) .. ..158 Irish Stew .. 159 Kidney, braized .. 174 Kidney, fried .. 176 Kidney, grilled.. .. 172 Kidney, minced.. .. 173 Kidney Saute .. ..169 Kidney Savoury 175 Kidney, stewed.. .. 170 Lamb's Fry and Bacon 183 Mutton Cutlets .. .. 129 Mutton Pie .. ..177 Mutton Savoury .. 163 Peas and Kleiz (Jewish recipe) .. .. 179 Sheep's Head, braized.. 143 Sheep's Head, pressed.. 145 Sheep's Head Saut^ .. 144 Sheep's Trotters a la Julienne .. .. 146 Sheep's Tongues' cuttlets 148 Sheep's Tongues in Aspic 149 Sheep's Trotters .. 164 Sheep's Trotters a la Julienne .. .. 168 Sheep's Trotters au Gratin .. ..166 ParagrapTi, Mutton 'E-ht'rtse^—continued Sheep's Trotters, pressed 167 Squab Pie (Bevonshite recipe) .. .. 178 Stewed Breast of Mutton and Peas .. ..162 Stewed Cutlets and Green Peas .. ..131 Stewed Mutton ,. .. 155 Stewed Mutton and Cauli- flower .. .. 181 Stewed Sheep's Head and Brain Sauce ., 141 Sweetbread, baked ,, 154 Sweetbread Cutlets 137 Sweetbreads, stewed 151 Sweetbread Saute ., 160 Sweetbread, fried .. 153 Sweetbread, larded .. 152 Trotters a la Julienne .. 168 Turnip Stew (Jewish recipe) .. .. 161 menus- Six Menus foe Dinnees for Six oe Eight Persons— Dinner No. 1 .. .. 828 Dinner No. 2 Dinnei No. 3 Dinner No. 4 Dinner No. 5 Dinner No. 6 829 830 831 832 833 Four Menus foe Dinnees foe Fifteen to Twenty Per- sons— Dinner No. 1 .. .. 834 Dinner No. 2 .. ., 836 Dinner No. 3 .. .. 836 Dinner No. 4 .. .. 837 Two, Special Menus foe Din- nee FOE Fifteen to Twenty Peesons. Dinner No. 1 .. .. 838 Dinner No. 2 .. .. 839Index. Paragraph. Menus—continued Dinner fob Fifty to One Hundred Persons- - No 861 Three Menus for Supper for 100 TO 150 Persons— Supper No. 1 .. .. 862 Supper No. 2 .. .. 863 Supper No. 3 ,. .. 864 Twenty-ONE Economical Din- ners FOR Every Day in the Week— Sunday ., 840 Monday .. 841 Tuesday .. 842 Wednesday 843 Thursday 844 Friday 845 Saturday.. 846 Sunday .. 847 Monday ., 848 Tuesday.. 849 Wednesday 850 Thursday 851 Friday .. 852 Saturday., 853 Sunday .. 854 Monday ., .. ., 855 Tuesday .. 856 Wednesday 857 Thursday 858 Friday ,. 859 Saturday.. 860 E.ECIPRS FOE Special Menus— Consomme a la Bernoise 865 puckling" aux Pommes Bissoli, roast 871 Fillets of Barramundi a ia Moulia Rouge .. 866 Larded Fillet of Beef 868 Mushroom Sauce 869 Sweetbread a la Chasseur 867 Turkey, roast and truffles 870 Paragraph, OYSTERS— Curried Oysters.. ,, 82 Darioles of Oysters 96 Devilled Oysters .. 83 Fried Oysters .. .. 81 Oyster a L'Espag-nole .. 86 Oysters au Beurre .. 88 Oysters au Oratin .. 95 Oyster Baskets .. .. 85 Oyster Cocktail.. .. 91 Oyster Cocktail (another way) .. .. 102 Oyster Fritters .. .. 89 Oysters in Cases .. 93 Oysters in Shells .. 94 Oysters and Macaroni .. 98 Oyster Omelette .. 90 Oyster Patties .. .. 87 Oyster Saute .. .. 100 Oysters and Potatoes ., 97 Savoury Oysters .. 84 Savoury Oysters with Mushrooms.. ,. 99 Scalloped Oysters ., 92 Stewed Oysters .. ,, 80 Panned Oysters.. ., 101 PASTRY, PIES AND PUD- DINGS, Etc.— Almond Puddings .. 578 Apple Batter Pudding.. 542 Apple Charlotte .. 543 Apple Fritters ., .. 594 Apple Pudding .. .. 520 Apple Snow ,. .. 547 Apple Souffle ., .. 552 Apple Whip .. ..571 Apricot Cream ., ,, 523 Apricot Jelly ., .. 588 Apricot Pie .. .. 522 Apricot Pudding .. 525 Apricot Souffle .. .. 524 Apricot Sponge.. .. 613 Baked Apples .. .. 589 Baked Bread and Butter Pudding .. 627Index. ■ ' Paragraph. Pastet, Pies and Puddings, Eto.—continued Baked Custard .. .. 531 Bachelor's Puddmg .. 680 BeigTiet's Souffle .. 581 Biscuit Pudding 541 Boiled Bread Pudding.. 526 BoHed Custard .. .. 532 Bolers 603 Bordeaux Pudding .. 614 Bread Fritters .. .. 595 Bread Fritters (another way) .. .. 596 Bread Pudding, a good family .. .. 563 Cabinet Pudding ^ ..528 Cabinet Pudding (rich) 529 Canary Pudding .. 559 Canary Pudding (another way) ., .. 591 Cape Goosebery Fool .. 540 Castle Pudding .. .. 574 Chandos Pudding ., 605 Chocolate Pudding .. 530 Cocoa Pudding .. .. 545 Custard Tarts .. ..539 Delmonia Pudding .. 572 Devonshire Dumplings 606 Dutch Flummery .. 584 Golden Pudding .. 577 Granadilla Cream .. 551 Granadilla Pie .. .. 521 German Toast .. .. 607 Iced Pudding .. .. 533 Iced Sago Pudding ,, 534 Indian Fritters .. .. 582 Indian Pudding.. .. 611 Kiss Pudding .. ,. 557 Lemon Cheese ., ,. 556 Lemon Pie .. .. 569 Lemon Pie (another way) 604 Lemon Pudding (econo- mical) ..\ .. 560 Lemon Sago .. .. 583 Lf^mon Snow Pudding.. 658 Littb Castle Puddings.. 575 Paragraph, Pastey, Pies and Puddings, Etc.—continued . Macaroni Pudding .. 535 Madeim Pudding .. 555 Magg"ie's Pudding .. 579 Marrtialade Pudding ., 554 Mincemeat .. .. 599 Mince Pies .. ..598 Motzo Pancakes (Jewish) 610 Motzo Pudding (Jewish) 609 Mulberry Cream Tart ., 587 My Trifle .. .. 549 Nuns' Fritters ,. .. 570 Orange Pie .. .. 590 Orange Pudding ., 592 Orange Snow .. .. 562 Orange Souffle .. ,. 576 Pancakes.. .. .. 597 Parisienne Pudding .. 615 Peach Trifle .. ..600 Pineapple, compote of .. 608 Plain Pudding for Chil- dren ,. .. ., 561 Plum Pudding, plain .. 548 Prune Pudding .. .. 612 Puff Paste made with Butter .. . 516 Pufl Paste made with Suet or Marrow .. 517 Queen Padding.. .. 553 Quinces, stewed.. .. 601 Quince Souffle .. .. 602 Kice Pudding, plain ., 472 Rice Pudding .. ..536 Rosella Pie .. .. 593 Short Paste .. .. 518 Solid Syllabub .. .. 585 Sponge Sandwiches .. 586 Suet Crust for Boiled Puddings .. .. 519 Suet Pudding .. ..538 Surprise Pudding .. 544 Swiss Pudding .. .. 565 Swiss Pudding (another way) .. ..566 Tipsy ^ddake,., ., 550Index. Paragraph. Pastbt, Pies and Puddings, Eto.—continued IHpsy Pudding .. ..673 Vermicelli Porridge .. 616 Verney Pudding .. 646 Victoria Pudding .. 6.64 Yorkshire Pudding .. 667 Yorkshire Pudding (an- other way) ., .. 668 PRAWNS Curried Prawns.. .. 118 Devilled Prawns .. 120 Potted Prawns .. ..127 Potted Prawns (another way) .. .. 128 Prawns .. ». .. 116 Prawns a la Francaise .. 121 Prawns in Aspic .. 126 Prawns Mantalini 122 Prawn Patties .. 126 Prawns Souffle .. .. 123 Prawns, to boil .. .. 116 Prawns, to pick .. 117 Prawns, to serve .. 119 Scalloped Prawns ., 124 ROAST AND BOILED JOINTS— Beef, how to boil .. 404 Boiled Round Beef .. 405 Boiled Shoulder of Mut- ton and Oyster Sauce 413 Ham, how to boil .. 416 Larded Fillet of Beef .. 408 Roast Breast of Veal .. 409 Roast Fillet of Veal .. 410 Roast Leg of Pork .. 414 Roast Loin of Veal .. 411 Roast Ribs of Beef .. 406 Roast Sirloin of Beef .. 407 Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton .. 412 Paragraph. SALADS AND DRESSINGS— Australian Salad Dress- ing .. ..360 Australian Salad Dress- ing (another way) .. 361 Beetroot .. .. .. 366 Cauliflower Salad .. 358 Cold Vegetable Salad .. 357 Cucumber Salad .. 356 French Salad Dressing.. 348 Haricot Beans Salad . 364 Lettuce Salad .. .. 363 Mayonnaise Dressing .. 347 Potato Salad (wrongly named Sauce) .. 362 Russian Salad Dressing 349 SAUCES— Anchovy .. 317 Apple 329 Bechamel .. ..326 Brandy 327 Bread 330 Caper 318 Caramel .. .. .. 346 Celery 339 Egg 316 Genevese .. .. 319 Gravy 341 Gravy for Poultry .. 343 Gravy for Roast Beef .. 342 Gravy for Wallaby .. 345 Gravy for Wild Duck .. 344 Lemon Sauce .. .. 336 Lobster 332 Melted Butter .. .. 313 Melted Butter (another way) .. ..314 Mint Sauce .. .. 334 Mushroom .. .. 321 Onion 338 Oyster 333 Parsley .. - .. .. 316 Pawpaw .. .. .. 326 Prince 340 Sauce Espagnole .. 322Index Sattoes—continued Paragraph 'Sauce for Boiled Pud- dings 337 Sauce Piquant .. 323 Sauce Tartare .. 324 Shrimp ., 3-31 Sweet 328 Tomato ., 320 Torture ., 335 White 312 SAVOURIES— American Macaroni Cteese .. ..461 Anchovy Eggs .. .. 512 Anchovies ond Olives .. 465 Anchovy Canapes .. 463 Anchovy Cream ., 462 Anchovy Croutons .. 454 Anchovy Paste .. 513 Anchovies on Toast .. 466 Anchovy Sandwiches .. 467 Anchovy Toast and Poached Eggs .. 464 Angels on Horseback .; 468 Asparagus a la Vina- grette ,. .. 511 Asparagus on Toast .. 469 Asparagus Mayonnaise 470 Baked Eggs .. .. 485 Buttered Eggs .. 471 Buttered Oysters .. 472 Cauliflower au Gratin .. 496 Cauliflower and Oyster Sauce .. ..508 Cavaire au Beurre ., 476 Cavaire on Toast .. 475 Cavaire Sandwiches .. 474 Celery au Gratin .. 507 Celery Toast .. .. 450 Cheese Canapes.. .. 477 Cheese Darlings .. 515 Cheese Fingers .. .. 448 Cheese Sandwiches .. 449 Cheese Savoury.. .. 455 Cheese Souffle .. .. 478 Paragraph, Savoueies—con tinned Cheese Straws .. Cheese Wafers .. Ood*s Roe Cream Cream Cheese Savoury. Crab a la Francaisse Cucumber Aspic Cucumber Sandwiches. Curried Eggs .. Devilled Almonds Devilled Biscuits Devils on Chariots Devilled Oysters Devilled Prawns Devilled Sardines Eggs a la Francaise Eggs and beetroot Eggs au Gratin.. Egg Espagnole .. Herring Cream .. Liver Savoury .. Liver Savoury (another way) Macaroni a la Indienne MrcaroniBatter.. Macar«oni Cheese Macaroni Espagnole Marrow on toast Potato Nest Prawns a la Francaise. Prawns Mantalini Roast Oysters .. Rosetti .. Russian Cream .. Sardine Sandwiches Sardine Tablets.. Savoury Cigarettes Savoury Eggs .. Savoury Rice Pudding. Savoury Sandwiches Tomato Nests .. Vegetable Marrow Gratin Turtle Fins on Toast Vegetable Marrow Es- pagnole .. .. 444Index, Paragraph. Paragraph, SAvoimiES—continued Soups—continued Welch Rarebit .. 503 Ox Tail 22 Welch Rarebit and Pea 24 Poached Eggs 505 Pea (economical) 5 Potato No. 1 .. 25 SWEETS— Potato No. 2 30 Chocolate Creams 731 Sheep's Head Broth Cocoanut Ice 726 (economical) 26 Cocoanut Ice (another Stocjc 1 way].. 727 6 736 Turtle 16 Date Creams 729 Vegetable 23 Eig Creams 722 French Jellies .. 230 TRIPE- 725 Frieasseed Tripe ,, 260 Fruit Sandwiches 734 Savoury Tripe ., 263 Jelly Creams 728 Stewed Tripe and Onions 259 Meringues 737 Tripe Cutlets .. 258 Ribbon Creams .. 735 Tripe Espagnole 262 Walnut Cream ,. 733 Tripe Fritters .. 261 Tripe, how to Clean .. 225 soups- Australian 13 USEFUL HINTS— Barley Broth 3 A.lmonds, To Blanch 889 Beche-de-mer .. 15 Bright Lights .. 887 Cockroaches, To kill .. 886 Celery Soup 29 Decanters, To clean 878 Clear Soup 2 Enamelled Saucepans, to Clear Gravy Soup 21 clean 883 Fish Soup 10 Cut Flowers, To revive 873 Fish Stock 9 Furniture, polish to make 875 Frimsel Soup (Jewish Furniture, polish to make cookery) 17 (another way) 876 Giblet Soup 20 Glass, To polish.." 872 Julienne Soup .. 8 Hands, To whiten 882 Kangaroo Tail .. .; 27 Ink Stains, To remove.. 881 Kidney Soup 11 Insects, To remove from Lobster or Crab Sonp ,. 19 cupboards .. 891 Motza Kleiz (J ewish Irons, To clean .. 885 Cookery) 14 Japanese Matting, To Mulligatawny (economi- clean 879 cal) .. 12 Kid Boots, To clean .. 874 Mulligatawny, rich 7 Liebig, The use of 890 Onion Soup 28 Oilcloth, To clean 880 4 Dark Skirts, To clean .. 878 18 Starch, To make for shirts 884Index. Paragrapli. Uheful Hints— continued Straw Hats, to clean white .. ..887 ToiletHints (15) on the.. 879 VEAL- Calf's Feet Brawn .. 244 Calf's Head Brawn .. 251 Calf's Head with Parsley Sauce ..247 Calf's Liver and Bacon.. 245 Calf's Liver and Toma- toes .. ..246 Calf's Sweetbread with Mushroom .. .. 248 Calf's Sweetbread and Champignon .. 256 Fried Veal and Mush- rooms .. .. 238 Fricassee of Veal .. 240 Galantine of Veal .. 250 Minced Veal and Macaroni .. .. 252 Minced Veal and Poached Eggs .. .. 23G Ragout of Veal .. .. 239 Stewed Veal .. .. 235 Stewed Calf's Feet and Rice .. ..242 Stewed Calf's Feet and Lemon Sauce .. 243 Stewed Sweetbreads .. 249 Stewed Veal and Mush- rooms .. .. 238 Tongue Brawn .. .. 254 Veal and Ham Pie .. 241 Veal Cutlets ..237 Veal and Ham Patties.. 255 Veal Moulds .. ..253 VEGETABLES— Baked Bringhall Baked Cauliflower Baked Onions ., 383 367 Paragraph. Vegetables— co7ihm-ted Baked Potatoes (in jackets) Baked Pawpaw .. Baked Tomatoes Baked Tomatoes, (anothe wayy Bananas, Green, as vegetable .. Beetroot in Sauce Boiled Onions .. Boiled Pawpaw .. Boiled Potatoes ., Boiled Tomatoes Bringhall or Egg Fruit Bringhall, stuffed Braised Vegetables Cabbage, To boil Celery a L'ltalienne Celery Fritters .. Chip Potatoes .. Choko, fried Cucumber, Baked Curried Vegetables Curried Bananas French Beans Fried Potatoes .. Fried Onions Green Peas To Boil Parsnip Croquets Pawpaw Pie Potato au Fromage Potato Cake Potato Gems Potato Puff Potato Snow ,. Potato Saute Pumpkin Tops .. Radishes in White Sauce Roast Potatoes .. Sauer Kraut Sauer Kraut, To serve.. Stewed Onions .. Stuffed Onions .. Stuffed Tomatoes Tomato Souffle .,MEMORANDA.MEMORANDA.MEMORANDA.MEMORANDA.MEMORANDA.MEMORANDA.MEMORANDA.MEMORANDA.MEMORANDA.MEMORANDA.MEMORANDA.MEMORANDA.MEMORANDA.MEMORANDA.KANDY KOOLA TEA. Pure! RefresMngi Tn<)fgorating! A BLEND of the CHOICEST HILL-GROWN TEAS of INDIA, CHINA, and SUNNY CEYLON; And is acknowledged by Connoisseurs to be the Most Perfect Tea in Australasia. ALL GROCERS K^EP IT IN STOCK- -^^O.V.G. and Special Reserve. ACKNOWLEDGED TO BE THE BEST IN THE WORLD. "USHER'S Whisky is consumed in every country in the Universe." When Ordering, Mention .... 9f the Best Stimulant is WHISKY!! Cbe Best mbisRy is USHER'S!! yjiyttoimlco. Family, Carcass, Shipping AND General BUTCHERS, j+a\}G pleasure in ir\formin^ tl7e Qeneral public and §l7ippin| (companies tl7af tlje^ are in fl7e position to (J^ater for tl7em ir\ all lSrancl76S of tl7e fprade. SMALL GOODS and SALT BEEF Rpe mytton 8t Co.'s Specialties. Orders from Mail Boats^ Lighters^ and Shipping generally attended to at any time during the day or night. Telsphons Kos.:—Uppsr 2hop^ 81; Lower^ 82^PRADSHAW'S,^ ® Opposite <^tU Hew €a$I) Drapers, Post OFf-/C£— TOWNSVILLE, Are the keenest people in the trade. Best Value and Lowest Prices for CASH ONLY. smisH milliNery at nioderate prices. 0 o o ^ Spi«i0dW SteelH of o . „ MaNeHESTER HNO DRESS G©©DS ALWfKYS ON Hand, Value Unequalled. The Best Cut Clothing The Newest Shirts, Hats, Ties, The Best Assortment of Travelling Bags and Portmanteaux The Freshest Stock of Fancy Goods, Hosiery, Laces, Ribbons, &c., in the North. LADIES' UNDERCLOTHING. Local Manufacture, Full-fashioned, Well-sewn, Well-finished Garments at the Lowest Prices in North Queensland. Tn PnilMTDY Cniiril write to BRaOSHaWS for your Drapery |U yuUNlllI fllLlv!! wants. Prices and Patterns sent with pleasure ^ , for you to choose from, Post Pree. Flinders Street, Townsville.W. H. TIMMS, A.PH.S. LONDON Flinclex*s Si<x*ee't, -6=:^^ TOWNS VI LilaE. $ DISPENSING AND FAMILY CHEMIST. $ JAMES GILLESPIE & CO. LIMITED, Carlton and Kensincton, IV|ELBOllRriE. NUMEROUS MEDALS and PRIZES have been obtained for this well-known Flour, which is famed throughout Australia, and which can be purchased from the principal Merchants and Storekeepers. Ask for the Melbourne Flour, and see you get it, and take none other. Gold Medal at the Greater Britain Exhibition, London, 1899, against (LAtc H. ^ARROTT), ROLLER FL©UR MILLS, competitors from all parts of the world.SKI/N/NE-R'S ^UEENgL^ND CEIiEB^^^PED pi6p-CD^gg P^EgE^YED DBIflC^CIEg. 20 First Prizes, 7 Gold Medals. 3 Special First Prizes and 3 Gold Medals awarded Queensland International Exhibition, 1897. TTJRTLE SOUPS, BEADY FOR USB, 1-pt. and i-pt. tins. THE CELEBRATED QUEENSLAND DELICACY- SAC//V/VH/? S BECHE'DE'MER SOUP, Now established in favour as a Choice Soup, specially ordered with Skinner's Turtle Soup by the Queensland Club and the leading Clubs and Hotels in the Southern Colonies. B. SKINNER, BRISBaNE, Inventor and Patentee of the Improved Preserving Process, by which purity of flavour is retained and the preserved taste peculiar to the ordinary process is prevented. Turtle for Invalids and Turtle Jelly, J-pt. tins. 20 Years' established reputation for Choice Queensland Preserves and Specialties for Invalids. Cape Gooseberry Jam, Pine-Apple J\m, Guava Jam, Rosella Jam, Pine-Apples, Guavas in Syrup, Cape Gooseberries, Rosellas, &c. Choice Savoury Meats (not over-cooked), Brawn, Potted Dugong, &c. All kinds of Potted Meats and Choice Soups, and his Celebrated Gold Medal Turtle Soup and Beche-de-mer Soup. Assorted Cases of any Yarietij : Soups, Jams, Potted Meats, Fruits in Syrup, PRICE LIST FORWARDED ON APPLICATION. SKINNER'S Preserves, not being over-cooked, are used by ladies and delicate people who cannot eat ordinary preserves. B. SKINNER, MleJeaUMFruitPreserver, OXONNELL TOWN, BRISBANE.H. F, HEHLEIH & CO.MWarded * ©nly > (§oId * Medal BUY BRUNTON'S VICTORY f9 Roller MELBOU OBTAINABLE FROM All Loading Morchants in Queensland.Here*s Something ghoice. Famous Mild Cured ''PINE-APPLE BRAND'' HAM AND BACON This Celebrated Brand [jas lained an Gxt^nsixJG I'epufation for excellence of qualify, bon| mild and of a delicious flaOoui'. AsK Your Grocer for Tben^. NONE GENUINE WITHOUT TR4DE MARK. Recipe for Boiling to he found in this hook.PdiLLiPS' Hotel (OPPOSITE A.U.S.N. CO.'S OFFICES), MARY STREET, BRISBANE. This Centrally Situated and Old Established Hotel has been Thoroughly Renovated, and now affords SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION FOR TOURISTS, FAMILIES, AND COMMERCIAL GENTLEMEN. FIRST-CLASS TABLE. LUNCHEON A SPECIALTY. f/lt^s. J. R. PHIIJ^L^IPS, PPoptfietPess. B. A. PHILLIPS' m R I S B A IH E . BEST BRANDS WINBS and SPIRITS ALWAYS OJSr HAND. LUNCHEON A SP^CIAUTY.KeNR^ J. ABBOTT, ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ TOWNSVILLE. DIRECT I]aP61^5^El^ 0E Eai^@PE^I5 MB Manufacturer of Furniture and Bed- ding of every description. The largest stock of its hind in NortJi Queensland to select from. ESTIMATES GIVEN. REPAIRS EXECUTED. Country Orders Carefully Packed and Forwarded.J . M . SXO U X (ESTABLISHED 1876), 9rm Shaker 4 "Cmfeetimcr OF TOWNSYILLE. ■Wea.<a.i2:2.gr Calres :E=repa.red. inn. ^irst-cla.ss St3rle. ^a^rirxe IBisc-u-its S-o-pplied. to Ord-er. C>il/?rS DELIVER THREE TIMES A DAY TO ALL PARTS OE THE CITY AND SUBURBS. JL TRIAL SOLICITED. KIRK I MACPHERSON Ltd. ^g^^^^ ARE HEADQUARTERS If! THE NORTH FOR- BOUSeftOia ^1 BRUSHWARE, lIlHlnR « —. i ENAMELLED WARE, J^m|^ Requisites J glassware, Jim of % EARTHENWARE, ■■ ^ CUTLERY, I jl Jill Kinds. J\ TINWARE, &c., &c, SPECIAL AGENTS IN NORTH QUEENSLAND ijijlljl For the Sale of tn!l]ii|i|| " tmmm " Trult preserving 3m. ImiSmmm ^^^^^ J^rs will keep any article air-tight and free from ants. KIRK & MACPHERSON Ltd., TOWWSVIl-J-E.< Mrs, r. G. H9BEL, Acting on the suggestion of her many friends in Townsville, has Opened a New millinery ^ omfitting CstablisDmeni NEWMARKET BUILDINGS, FLINDERS ST., TOWNSVILLE. Victoria Saddlery Warehouse. FLINDERS STREET, TOWNSVILLE (Established iS8i). G. R. HQPKINSON, Manufacturer and Importer of every Description of SADDLERY & SADDLERS' IRONMONGERY. Wiien Saddles being ordered send height and weight to ensure a perfect fit. J. H- ROGERS LIMITED, —Hardware A\ercb2ints, (j) Have opened with a new and well-assorted stoeJc direct from the Manufacturers, and can supply Storekeepers, Builders, Plumbers, Contractors, and others at Station^ ♦ Plantation^ ♦ and - Mining * RsqaisitGS. . . . QD0TaTI©NS ON appLieaxiON. . . .The Jnnot >Spa Water Sompany having made the necessary arrangements for regular shipments of the famous Spa Water from the Springs near Herberton, the Company is prepared to supply in any quantity. FAMILIES SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION AT THE FACTORY, WALKER STREET, Near Gordon Club, or to J. S. LOVE, Manager, Townsville. Copy of^ Analysis made by J. Brownie Henderson, Esq., Government Analyst, on 4th December, 1896:— '■'The Water contains Lithia, Iron and Alumnia, Calcium Carbonate, Magnesium Carbonate, Sodium Carbonate, Sodium Chloride, Silica, Ammonia and Albuminoid Ammonia—luhich combination accounts for the curative properties of the Water The Company's SELTZER WATER is unsurpassed in the Market. TRY IT. lOTOT SPA WATER COHPAHY, Walker Street, Townsville.CASTLING, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL Fainily, Shipping snd FLINDERS STREET,UNIVERSAL TESTIMONY Jn favour of The World's Fair at Chicago awarded FIRST HONOURS TO KUPPER'S BEER. ■I I m I u 1111111111 n I u I III 1111111111111 ^ <io\d Medal Wl7Gr6\?er Gxl^ibifed. MiiiiiiiiinmiimiiHMiuniiiniin For Purity, Flavour and Excellence^ V ^ KUPPER'S BEER^ Was Superior in Open Competition ag:ainst the World.Riley Dunn & Wilson Ltd