DOMESTIC WINES, &c. S68 linen, one ounce of allspice, and two of ginger ; forty pounds of sugar being put into a tub, the boiling liquor is strained over it, pressing the fruit quite dry; a quarter of a pound of crude tartar, or cream of tartar, is then added to the liquid. When it has stood two days in the tub, it may be removed to the cask, treated, as for sweet wine, in the usual manner, and bottled in March following. When to be drunk, a por- tion of it is heated with some sugar, two or three cloves, and a little nutmeg. WINE FROM MXXEO FRUIT. The three varieties of currant may be used in the largest proportion, and being nicely picked from the stalks, they are allowed just to boil in as much water as to prevent their burning; of raspberries, strawberries, and cherries—.black- heart are the best — equal quantities may be allowed ; they are masked with a little water ; gooseberries may be used to advantage, but must be prepared separately by more power- ful bruising, in an equal quantity of water, and straining through a canvass bag, the other fruits being also strained ; to each gallon of juice thus obtained, four pounds of loaf sugar and half an ounce of crude tartar are allowed ; when the material has stood some hours in the tub in which it was mixed, it is removed to the cask, and managed as cur- rant wine. WINE FROM UNRIPE GRAPES. The proportions and treatment are exactly the same as those laid down for the gooseberry, only that the husks may always be fermented in the vat wdth the fluid, and also the stems when young ; with the exception of the seeds, there is no objection to bruising the solid matters. WINE FROM VINE LEAVES. The leaves are best when young; at farthest they should not be full grown, and must be plucked with their stems ; the tendrils are equally useful; they may be taken from vines from which no fruit is expected, or from the summer prunings ; when tainted with soot, they must be carefully washed. Forty or fifty pounds of such leaves being put into a tub, seven or eight gallons of boiling water are to be poured on them, in which they are to infuse for twenty-four hours ; the liquor being poured off, the leaves must be pressed in a press of considerable power ; and being then washed with an addi- tional gallon of water, they are again to be pressed. Thirty