391 MISCELLANY. 8tUl sticks, damp it with a spunge dipped in beer or vinegar ; then brush it with a hard brusli till it is dry. TO REMOVE SPOTS OF GREASE OUT OF CLOTH. Moisten them with a few drops of concentrated solution of subcarbonate of potash ; rub the spots between the fin- gers, and then wash the spot with a little warm water. To remove oil-paint, or grease, rub the part with a bit of flannel dipped in spirits of wine or turpentine. FURNITURE OIL. Mix with one pint of cold-drawn linseed oil, one ounce of spirits of white lavender, half an ounce of powdered gum- arabic, dissolved in a little hot oil. This being thoroughly mixed, rub it over the tables with a little wool, and rub it <» J with clean linen cloths. A brush must never be used. If the furniture is desired of a very dark colour, add to this mixture three ounces of alkanet root, and two ounces of rose pink. FOR GIVING A BRIGHT AND BEAUTIFUL POLISH TO FURNITURE. Mix well with an ox-gall one pint of cold-drawn linseed oil, then stir in two glasses of whisky, and when thoroughly mixed, add half an ounce of aquafortis, and stir it altogether for ten or fifteen minutes; bottle it, and when to be used, shake it well; rub it on with a piece of flannel, and then rub very hard with a linen cloth, TO CLEAN CHAIRS. Scrape down one or two ounces of bees-wax; put it into a jar, and pour as much spirit of turpentine over it as will cover it; let it stand till dissolved. Put a little upon a flan- nel or bit of green baize, rub it upon the chairs, and polish them with a brush. A very small portion of finely-powdered white rosin may be mixed with the turpentine and wax. TO CLEAN PLATE. Cut a yard of coarse calico into four, and boil it in a quart of water, together with two ounces of calcined, powdered, and sifted hartshorn, till all the liquid be absorbed. The plate being washed clean, rub it with a piece of the cloth. All plate powder which is mixed with mercury is perni- cious. Fine colcothar of vitriol, such as painters use, is an excellent plate powder ; that, or whitening, may be used, dry, or wet with water, spirits, or oil. The last gives the brightest