PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 238 and the whites of two eggs. Pound some tansy with two or three leaves of spinach ; squeeze the juice, and put in as much of it as wdll make the pudding of a good green colour, a glass of brandy, half a grated nutmeg, and four ounces of fresh butter ; mix all the ingredients, sweeten and put it into a sauce-pan, and stir it over the fire till it be hot. Bake it in a buttered dish for half an hour. Before serving, strew grated loaf sugar over the top. CHARLOTTE DE POM3MES. Pare, core, and mince fourteen or fifteen French rennet apples; put them into a frying-pan, with sonie pounded loaf sugar, a little pounded cinnamon, grated lemon-peel, and two ounces and a half of fresh butter ; fry them a quarter of an hour over a quick fire, stirring them constantly. Butter a shape of the size the charlotte is intended to be ; cut strips of bread about the width of two fingers, and long enough to reach from the bottom to the rim of the shape, so that the whole be lined with bread ; dip each bit into melted butter, and then put a layer of the fried apples, and one of appricot jam or marmalade, and then one of bread dipped into butter; begin and finish with it. Bcike it in an oven for nearly an hour ; turn it out to serve it. It may be boiled, and served with a sweet sauce. SPEAKER’S PUDDING. Stone and weigh three quarters of a pound of raisins. Rub with butter a plain oval mould, aiid stick upon it some of the raisins, in strips or circles. Cut some thin slices of bread without the crust, dry them a while before the fire, butter, and cut them into strips about an inch and a quarter wide ; line the mould with part of the bread; then put a layer of raisins, and strew over them a table-spoonful of pounded loaf sugar; add a layer of the bread and butter; then raisins, and so on till the shape be nearly full, putting bread and butter on the top. Mix with a pint of good milk, the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, a table-spoonful of sugar, one and a half of rose water, and a glass of brandy ; pour this over the pudding, and let it soak one or two hours. Bake it three quarters of an hour. It may be boiled by steam for an hour and a half. ALMOND PUDDING. Blanch eight bitter, and half a pound of sweet almonds; pound them in a mortar, with a glass of orange-flower water.