CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 271 ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE SWISS CREAM. Whisk, upon a hot plate, the yolks of eight eggs, half a pound of finely-pounded sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, and half a pint of light French or Rhenish white wine, and send it warm to table. LEMON CREAM. Steep the thinly-pared rinds of four large lemons in a pint of water for twelve hours; strain, and dissolve in it three quarters of a pound of fine loaf sugar, add the juice of the lemons strained, and the well-beaten whites of seven, and the yolk of one egg. Boil it over a slow fire, stirring it con- stantly one way, till it is like a thick cream; pour it into a glass or china dish. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE LEMON CREAM. Steep the peel of a large lemon in half a pint of water for twelve hours ; strain, and add to the water a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, the juice of two lemons, and the well- beaten yolks of three, and whites of two eggs ; stir it con- stantly one way over the fire till thick. Serve in custard-cups. It may be perfumed with orange-flower water, ambergris, or musk. CREAM ROSEAT. Beat to a stiff froth the whites of four eggs ; sweeten and boil a pint of good milk; drop about three table-spoonfuls of the froth into it; turn it over once or twice with the spoon, take it out, and put it upon the back of a lawn sieve placed over a large plate ; repeat this till it is all done ; add to the milk another half pint, with a little more sugar, and mix it with the beaten yolks of the eggs ; stir it over the fire till thick ; put it into a basin, and stir it now and then till nearly cold; add a table-spoonful of rose water, and one of brandy. Serve it in a glass dish, and lay the whites of the eggs over the top at equal distances. Cut citron and candied orange- peel into straws, and put them over the whites of the eggs, or strew over them coloured comfits. CREAM FOR FRUIT TARTS. Boil a stick of cinnamon, two or three peach leaves, ora few bruised bitter almonds, in a quart of milk ; strain, sweeten, and mix it, when cool, with three or four w'ell-beaten egf^s; stir it constantly over the fire till it thickens. It may be eaten with stewed apples, prunes, damsons, or any other fruit.