378 DOMESTIC WINES. &c. ORANGE LIQUEUR. To each orange, one quart of strong spirits, and one pound and a quarter of loaf sugar are allowed ; six or eight cloves are to be stuck into each orange, which, with the spirits and sugar, is to be put into a jar. It must be closely covered, and stirred occasionally in the course of two months ; it is then to be filtered through blotting paper, and bottled for use. Lemon liqueur is made in the same way, substituting lemons for oranges. Instead of mixing the sugar with the other materials in the jar, it may be made into a sirup, and added to the strained or filtered spirits. This, though more troublesome, will be found a better method. NOYAU. The rinds of three large lemons, half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, one ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and pounded, are to be mixed into a quart of the best Hollands, three table-spoonfuls of boiling milk being added. It is to be put into a bottle or jar, and shaken every day for three weeks, and then filtered through chamois leather or blotting paper, when it will be fit for use. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE NOYAU. Peaches and nectarines, in equal quantities, are to be bruised, the stones broken, and the kernels blanched and bruised; they are then to be put into a jar in layers, one of fruit, one of kernels, and one of pounded loaf sugar, and so on until the jar is full; as much white brandy is then to be added as the jar will hold; and when it has stood for five or six months, it is to be filtered, and bottled for use. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE NOYAU. One pound of bitter almonds, blanched, is to be steeped three months in four quarts of large-still proof whisky, or pale brandy ; four pounds of loaf sugar are then to be cla- rified. and added to the strained or filtered spirits, together with half a pint of pure honey. It is sometimes coloured with a little cochineal; and may al,-o be made, allowing three parts of sweet, and one of bitter almonds ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE NOYAU. Three ounce.s of peach kernels, or of bitter almonds, blanched and pounded, are to be mixed with one quart of