CURRIES. 150 INDIAN CURRIE. Stkw in two ounces of butter, for ten minutes, a tea- spoonful of cayenne, and one of Jamaica pepper, a dessert- spoonful of pounded coriander seed, six small onions, and two heads of garlic minced. Cut the fowl or rabbit into small pieces, and cover it over with the curd of sweet milk. Put the whole into a stew-pan, with as much boiling water as may be desired for sauce, and let it simmer till very tender. CURRIE OF VEAL, RABBIT, OR FOWL. Fuy sliced veal, rabbit, fowl, or sweetbreads, in a good deal of butter, dusting it with flour. Dust one side with currie powder; then turn and dust the other, strewing over it finely-minced onions, taking care not to burn them. When the meat is of a light brown, add some white stock, with a little salt; stew it till tender. Before serving, skim off the fat, and add a tea-spoonful of lemon juice or vinegar. Rabbit, fowl, and sweetbreads should be parboiled. A FOWL CURRIED WHOLE. Skin the fowl, and if old, simmer it for two hours with an onion cut small ; then add three table-spoonfuls of whole rice, tw'o of currie powder, and two more onions, and let the whole boil about half an hour. TO BOIL RICE. Wash the rice perfectly clean, and put on one pound in two quarts of cold water; let it boil twenty minutes, strain it through a sieve, and put it before the fire ; shake it up with a fork every now and then, to separate the grains, and make it quite dry. Serve it hot. CURRIE POWDER. Pound extremely fine, in a mortar, six ounces of coriander seed, three ounces of black pepper, one ounce and a half of fennigreck seed, one ounce of cummin seed, three ounces of turmeric, and three quarters of an ounce of cayenne ; sift it tlirough muslin, and put it before the fire for four or five hours, stirring it every now and then. Keep it in a bottle with a glass stopper. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE CURRIE POWDER. One pound of rice picked clean, eight ounces of coriander seed, four ounces of cummin seed, and four ounces of yellow mustard seed ; put all these into a frying-pan, stir it con-