PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 259 roll out; cut the paste into oblong pieces about four or five inches in length ; with a paste-cutter, divide the centre into three or four strips, wet the edges, and plait one bar over the other, so as to meet in the centre; throw them into boiling lard, or clarified suet; when fried of a light brown, drain them before the fire, and serve them in a napkin, with or without grated loaf sugar strewed over them. FRENCH SUPPER DISH. Pare off the crust, and cut one or two slices of bread into bits of two or three inches square ; fry them in butter ; put them upon a hot dish, and lay upon each bit some warmed preserve ; or stew for a few minutes, in sweet wine and a little sugar, some stoned bloom raisins, and put them upon and round the toast. The preserves may be heated by placing the jars in hot \va- ter by the side of the fire. FONDEUX. Beat separately the yolks and whites of four eggs ; add to the yolks a pint of cream, and half a pound of grated Parme- san cheese ; mix in the whites of the eggs just before putting it into paper cases; or bake it in a round tin about three inches high, and before serving it, which should be instantly when taken out of the oven, put round it a sheet of white paper folded, and cut so as to form a fringe at the top. Any mild, dry cheese may be used, and butter beaten to a cream substituted for cream. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE FONDEUX. Mix by degrees, with a quarter of a pound of 'flour, half a pint of cream, and half an ounce of butter ; put it into a sauce-pan, and stir it over the fire till quite thick; add five yolks of eggs, well beaten, with half a pint of new milk, and two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese ; stir it together in a basin, and mix in lightly the five whites of eggs beaten to a thick froth; bake it in a tin, lined with puff' paste, for half an hour ; turn it out instantly to serve. A soufflet pudding may be made exactly in this way, sub- stituting sugar for the cheese. OMELET SOUFFLET. Beat, with tlie yolks of ten eggs, four table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar, and half the peel of a grated lemon ; add, the instant before putting into the pan, the well-beaten whites