POULTRY. 404 then for domestic use or sale, the best method is constant high keep from the beginning; their flesh will in consequence be more juicy and finer flavoured, and they will be always ready for the table, except in the moulting season, which is during the autumn for the old, and the spring for the young poultry. The pullets which have been hatched in March, if high fed from the beginning, will lay plentifully through the following autumn, and in February may be used for the table; about which period their laying will be finished. The fowls will be finest that have the run of the farm-yard; but they will be little inferior, if accommodated and attended to as be- fore directed, and allowed abundance and variety of whole- some food. Barley is the best grain for poultry, but they will thrive well on oats and tail wheat; heavy wheat is gene- rally considered injurious ; any light grain ground, together with peas, and made into brose, will be found excellent food; as also potatoes, when boiled, peeled, and made into thick brose with meal, that is, boiling water stirred into the mixture. A cock and two hens, having as much food as they choose to eat, will consume a quarter of a peck of the best barley in a week. TURKEYS. The true black Norfolk turkey is esteemed superior to all others. One turkey cock is sufficient for six hens. The hen will cover, according to her size, from nine to fifteen eggs. Her term of sitting is thirty days, during which period con- stant attendance, with both food and water, is necessary. The chicks must be withdrawn from the nest as soon as hatched, and kept very warm. The hen and brood should be housed during a month or six weeks, and fed with barley or oatmeal, which may be mixed with young nettles chopped, or garden cresses, and kneaded with water as dry as possible. Their food should be often renewed, as also their drink, which should be water only. In case of the chicks appearing sickly, and the feathers ruffled, indicating a chill from se- verity or change of weather, half-ground malt may be mixed with the barleymeal, and by way of medicine, powdered caraway seeds; also artificial worms, that is, boiled meat pulled into strings, in running after which the chicks have a salutary exercise. This diet is beneficial for every species of chicks. All slop victuals should be avoided ; and their beii>g kept dry, warm, and clean, is of the utmost consequence. A fresh turf of short sweet grass daily, cleared from snails and slugs, which will scour young chicks, is very pleasing to