460 PIGS. may be said to be always ready for killirig. They are excel* lent for bacori, and are well adapted for being used as pork. When young, that is, when about four months old, they are very mischievous when not well ringed.* And for those who do not like very fit pork, the small breeds before mentioned will be preferable, their flesh being equally delicate There is another small breed, which is by far the best for the farmer, but it cannot be classified ; they will feed in a shorter period, and will thrive upon articles that would starve the larger- sized animals. The kind in view will feed upon common fare, to seven or eight stones Amsterdam, when eleven or twelve months old, or to nine or ten stones when put up in the house to receive better food. For a large establishment, a boar and two good sows, of a proper age, should constantly be kept; and one young sow annually reared, in order to supply the others, when they pass maturity, that is, when they arrive at three years of age. Their time of farrowing should be so arranged that they may produce two litters in the year — one about March, and the other towards the beginning of August. A sow, when with young, ought not to be entirely confined to a hut, but allowed to walk about at pleasure in the swine-yard, or court belong- ing to the farm; nor should she be allowed to sleep with a number of swine. A sow goes with young 112 days, or six- teen weeks, not above a day over or under that time; a few hours previous to her farrowing, she will be observed carrying straws in her mouth, to make a bed wdth. When she is bringing forth her young, she ought not to have much litter or long straw in her apartment, nor for a few days after, lest the young pigs should be hid by it from their dam. She ought to be well fed when giving suck; if she is once allowed to get poor, it will take double the quantity of food and of time to restore her to her former state. If the pigs should be numerous, they, as also the sow, should be fed two or three times a-day with milk, and wheat bran, or meal. Should the milk be scarce, a little water, slightly warm, may be mixed with it, taking care that the mixture be not too thick, that is, more of the nature of a drink than of any thing else; and while the pigs are feeding on this, the sow should be turned out for an hour or two, that her milk may gather a little. She and her pigs should lie dry and warm. If they are well fed, the pigs will be ready for the spit in three weeks; and may be sold in six weeks, ^^^len the pigs are taken from * The usual method of ringing swine is now superseded by an improved method adopted by Mr. Tubb, which is to pare off, with a sharp penknife, the gristle on tlie tops of the noses of young pigs.