357 PICKLES. YELLOW PICKLE. Cut neatly into small pieces one large head of cauliflower, two of cabbage, six good-sized carrots, and a quart of French beans ; put salt over them, and let them stand for twenty- four hours; drain them upon sieves for the same length of time, and lay them upon cloths to dry for twelve days in the sun, or near the fire; then mix with them a quart of small onions, and a quarter of a pound of garlic and allow them all to dry for two days longer. Put the whole into a large jar, with of white mustard-seed and turmeric two ounces each, one ounce of white ginger, and two table-spoonfuls of currie- powder; fill up the jar with boiling vinegar, cover it closely, and let it stand near the fire, or in a warm place, for a few days, when the pickle will be ready for use. If it be too thick, add more boiling vinegar. TO PICKLE EGGS. Boil twelve eggs for twelve minutes ; dip them into cold water, and take off the shells ; boil a quart of vinegar for a quarter of an hour, with half an ounce each of black and Jamaica pepper, and ginger, also some slices of beet-root; put in the eggs to boil for eight or ten minutes, then put them into a jar with a slice of beet-root laid on each, and cover them with the vinegar and spices. They will be fit for use in four days, and are served in the following man- ner : — Place two or three in a dish, and put round them one or two cut into slices, then garnish with curled parsley. TO PICKLE MUSHROOinS. Cut off the stalks, and wash clean, in cold water, some small button mushrooms ; rub them with a bit of flannel, then throw them into fresh water, and when perfectly clean, put them into a sauce-pan with fresh cold water, and let them boil eight or ten minutes; strain off the water, lay them into the folds of a cloth. Boil, in a quart of vinegar, a quarter of an ounce of white pepper, the same of allspice, and two or three blades of mace, and a tea-spoonful of salt; put the mushrooms into a jar, and when the vinegar is cold, pour it, with the spices, over them. ANOTHER WAY TO PICKLE MUSHROOMS. Clean them nicely, put them into a jar, cover them with vinegar, add a little salt, white pepper, and allspice ; boil them in a water bath, or upon a hot plate, till the mushrooms