19 SOUPS. boil them till they are perfectly soft; pulp them through a sieve ; slice seven or eight onions, and fry them in butter; put them to the liquor that has been pulped, add a large lettuce, and a little mint cut very small, and a pint of young green peas ; boil all together till the peas are tender, then stir in a table-spoonful of butter till it is quite melted, and put pepper and salt to season it. SPRING SOUP. Put on, in four quarts of vi^ater, a knuckle of veal cut down, and a quarter of a pound of lean ham, or a gammon of bacon; a quart of green split peas; cut small three or four onions, three turnips, a little parsley, thyme, celery, and one leek; stew them all together till the peas are very soft; take out the meat, and press the remainder through a fine sieve; season the soup with pepper and salt. Cut small like peas a bunch of the tops of asparagus, the hearts of two or three cabbages, cutting off the top part and the outside leaves, and a little green mint; stew them till tender, keep- ing them of a good green, and add them to the soup a quarter of an hour before serving. If it should not be green enough, pound some spinach, squeeze the juice through a cloth, put about a quarter of a pint into the tureen, and pour in the soup. This is the best method to make green peas soup of a good colour. CUCUIVEBER SOUP. Make some broth with a neck of mutton, a thick slice of lean bacon, an onion stuck with three cloves, a carrot, two turnips, some salt, and a bunch of sweet herbs; strain it ; brown with an ounce of butter the crumb of a French roll, to which put four large cucumbers, and two heads of lettuce cut small; let them stew a quarter of an hour, and add to them a quart of the broth; w'hen it boils, put in a pint of green peas, and as it stews, add two quarts more of the broth. BEET ROOT SOUP. Boil till tender two roots of beet, and rub oft' the skin with a coarse towel; mince them finely, as also tw’o or three onions; add this to five pints of rich gravy soup, so as to make it rather thick ; then stir in three or four table-spoon- fuls of vinegar, and one of brown sugar ; let it boil, and throw in some fricandellans made up in the form of corks, and rolled in flour.