PORK. 127 TO cum: PIG’S cheek. Strew salt over it, and let it lie for two or three days, then pout over it the following mixture when it is cold :—■ Half a pound of bay salt, half an ounce of saltpetre, a quar- ter of a pound of coarse brown sugar, one handful of common salt, and a penny worth of cochineal, boiled in a pint of strong beer or porter ; let it lie in the pickle a fortnight, turning it daily, then hang it to smoke for a week. When it is to be dressed, put it into lukewarm water to soak for a night, and in dressing it, follow the directions given for boiling hams. TO CURE PIGS’ TONGUES. Cut off the root, and rub them well with brown sugar; the following day, rub into them a quarter of a pound of common salt, half an ounce of saltpetre, and two ounces of bay salt; turn them daily. In a week or ten days they may be used. This quantity will salt six or eight pigs’ tongues. TO DRESS PIGS’ KIDNEYS AND SKIRTS. Clean and wash them very nicely; cut the kidneys across, and the skirts into small square bits ; fry them, a light brown in beef dripping; brown a bit of butter the size of a walnut, with a little flour, and add as much boiling water as may be required of gravy, and an onion minced small. Add the meat, a little pepper, salt, and mushroom catsup, and let it stew till tender. TO COIXAR A SIVIALL ROASTING PIG. Cut off* the feet, head, and tail ; bone and wash it well, and dry it in a cloth. Season it highly with a quantity of black pepper and salt; roll it up firmly, and bind it with a piece of linen ; sew it tightly. Put it on in boiling water, with the bones, let it boil for an hour, then put it under a weight to press till it be cold, and take off the cloth. HAIVI TOASTS. Grate some lean ham; mix with it the beaten yolk of an egg, and some pepper ; fry it in clarified butter, put it on square bits of toast, and brown it with a salamander. SOUSED PIG'S HEAD AND FEET. « Clean them extremely well, and boil them ; take for sauce part of the liquor, and add vinegar, lime or lemon juice, salt, cayenne, black and Jamaica pepper ; put in, either cut down