KITCHEN GARDEN. 440 LEEK. Leeks are raised much in the same way as onions. There are three varieties of them ; the narrow-leaved or Flanders, the broad-leaved or tall London, and the Scotch or flag-leek ; this last is by much the most hardy. They are, about the beginning of March, sown closely in beds, and in June or .July are planted out in rows, first trimming off the tips of the leaves and the points of the fibrous roots. A good way is, to make a deep hole with a dibble, and merely lay in the leek plant up to the leaves, without closing the earth about it; this encourages the stem to swell and lengthen, while at the same time it blanches it. But this plan may be adopted only in moist weather, or the plants must be well watered, to en- sure their taking root. If the leaves be topped two or three times during the summer, the leeks will grow to a larger size. They are ready for use in autumn and winter. CXBOL. CiBOLS are raised from seeds, which are sown in July. The seedling plants soon appear; but, in the course of the month of October, the leaves go off, and the ground seems quite bare. In January, however, they again begin to shoot, and by March they are fit for use, CHIVES. Chives are readily propagated by parting the roots, either in autumn or spring, and they will grow in any soil or situ- ation. They should be repeatedly cut during the summer, the successive leaves produced in this way being more tender. A small bed or border thus managed will afford a sufficient supply; it will continue productive for three or four years, when a new plantation should be made. GARLIC. Garlic has a bulbous root, made up of a dozen or fifteen smaller bulbs, called cloves ; it is propagated by detaching the cloves, and planting them. The soil should be light and dry, well delved, and broken fine. The sets are placed four inches distant from each other in every direction, and between two and three inches deep. The smaller the cloves, the more healthy and productive will be the plants. They are put in in February or March ; about the middle of June the leaves are tied in knots, to prevent the stronger plants from running to flower. The crop is taken up in August, when