128 PORK. or whole, the head and feet; boil all together for an hour, and pour it into a deep dish. It is eaten cold with mustard and vinegar. TO ROAST A SUCKING PIG. To kill the pig, stick it just above the breast bone, running the knife into the heart; plunge it for a minute or two into cold water ; rub it over with resin beaten exceedingly fine — it is sometimes rubbed with its blood before the resin is put on ; dip it into a pail of scalding water, take it out and rub off all the hair as quickly as possible; if it should not all come olF, repeat the scalding and rubbing with resin. When quite clean, wash it in warm, and frequently in cold water. Cut off the feet at the first joint; take out all the entrails ; put the pettitoes, heart, liver, and lights together. Wash the )iig well in cold water, and dry it thoroughly. Make a stuff- ing of grated bread, butter, a small onion, and three or four sage leaves minced ; season with pepper and salt, put it inside and sew it up. The pig being made perfectly dry, put the well-beaten wdiite of an egg all over it with a feather. Put it down to roast before a very quick fire, and under it a small basin to catch the gravy. Do not flour it, and be sure to cover it w’cll with the egg, w hich will crisp it nicely, and make it of a delicate light browm. It will take from one to two hours to roast. When done, cut off the head; part it and the body down the middle ; mix with the chopped brains a little finely-minced boiled sage and some melted butter, add to it the gravy that has run from the pig, also mix with the stuffing some melted butter. Lay the pig on the dish, placing the shoulder of the one side to the hind quarter of the other. Observe, in roasting the pig, to skewer the legs back, so that the under part may be crisp. A pig prepared as above may be baked. HAM AND EGGS. Cut some ham into thin slices, and broil them on a grid- iron. Fry some eggs in butter. Serve it, laying an egg on each slice of ham. PIG'S HARSLET. Parboil the liver and lights; slice and fry them along with thin bits of bacon. Garnish with fried parsley.