341 PRESERVES. them, put them.||Pto a preserving-pan, and mash them over the fire till hot; rut) them through a sieve, and add to a pound of pulp the same weight of pounded loaf sugar, and half an ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and pounded ; let it boil ten or twelve minutes, stir and skim it well. TO PRESERVE FIGS. Allow equal weight of loaf sugar and of small green figs; wipe and cut them across the top; lay them into a strong brine of salt and water for ten days. Boil them in water till the head of a pin will easily pierce them, and then lay them into cold water for four days, changing it daily. Clarify the sugar, and put in the figs while hot; heat them in the sirup three times, and the last, boil them till they look gr^en and clear. TO PRESERVE APPLES. Pare, core, and quarter six pounds of good hard baking apples ; finely pound four pounds of loaf sugar ; put a layer of each alternately, with half a pound of the best white ginger, into a jar ; let it remain eight-and-forty hours ; infuse, for half that time, in a little boiling water, half a quarter of a pound of bruised white ginger; strain and boil the liquor with the apples till they look clear, and the sirup rich and thick, which may be in about an hour. Take off the scum as it rises. When to be eaten, pick out the whole ginger. TO PRESERVE GREEN GAGES. Gather the largest green gage plums with stalks ; allow an equal proportion of loaf sugar; put vine or cabbage leaves into the bottom of a pan, lay in the fruit, cover with leaves, and fill up with cold water. When the plums rise to the top, take them off, and carefully pare off the skin, and put them upon a sieve. Drain the water from the leaves ; with fresh ones again heat the plums in it, and closely cover the pan ; they must be done very slowly, and will take some hours to become green. Take them out and drain them upon a sieve. Clarify the sugar, boil it for eight minutes, put in the plums, boil them gently till transparent, and carefully put them into jars. Boil the sirup a few minutes, and pour it over them when cold. In three or four days, pour off the sirup, boil it up, and, when cold, put it over the fruit. ANOTHER WAY TO PRESERVE GREEN GAGES. Put the plums into boiling water, pare off the skin, and divide them; take an equal quantity of pounded loaf sugar.