S94 MISCELLANY. TO CLEAN STONE KITCHENS. They should not be often washed, but dry-rubbed with a blue or grey stone, then wiped with a coarse flannel, and swept; thus all greasy spots will be removed. A common brick may be used instead of the stone. TO PREVENT THE SMOKING OF A LAMP. Soak the wick in strong vinegar, and dry it well before it is used. POT POURRZ. Gather, when perfectly dry, a peck of roses ; pick off the leaves, and strew over them three quarters of a pound of common salt; let them remain two or three days, and if any fresh flowers are added, some more salt should be sprinkled over them. Mix with the roses half a pound of finely-pounded bay-salt, the same quantity of allspice, of cloves, and of brown sugar, a quarter of a pound of gum- benjamin, and two ounces of orris-root; add a glass of brandy, and any sort of fragrant flower, such as orange and lemon flowers, rosemary, and a great quantity of lavender flowers — also white lilies; a green orange stuck with cloves may be added. All the flowers must be gathered perfectly dry. TO MAKE COFFEE WHEN MUCH IS REQUIRED. In the morning, pour upon a quarter of a pound of fresh- ground coffee about two quarts of boiling water; stir it for three or four minutes ; cover it closely, and let it remain till the evening; pour it off' quite clear, and boil it up for use. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE COFFEE. Beat an egg, shell and all; mix it with a quarter of a pound of coffee, then pour two quarts of boiling water on it, and boil it for five minutes ; let it settle a little that it may be fine ; or, instead of clearing it with an egg, pour a little cold water into the coffee-pot before taking it off the fire. It may be made in this way in a large quantity, tbe clear part poured off, bottled, and corked. Thus prepared, kept in a cool place, it will continue good for ten or fifteen days. MILK COFFEE FOR BREAKFAST. Boil one ounce of good coffee for fifteen minutes in a pint and a half of water. The next day pour off the clear liquor.