191 VEGETABLES. TO FRICASSEE JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. Wash and scrape, or pare them ; boil them in milk and water till they are soft, which will be from a quarter to half an hour. Take them out and stew them a few minutes in the following sauce : —Roll a bit of butter, the size of a wal- nut, in flour; mix it with half a pint of cream or milk ; season it with white pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. They may be served plain boiled, with a little melted butter poured over them. Scorzonera is fricasseed in the same manner. ONIONS PLAIN BOILED. Peel them, and let them lie an hour in cold w'ater ; put them on in boiling milk and water, boil them till tender, and serve them with melted butter poured over them. TO STEW CUCUMBERS. Pare eight or ten large cucumbers, and cut them into thick slices ; flour them w ell, and fry them in butter; then put them into a sauce-pan with a tea-cupful of gravy ; season it highly with cayenne, salt, mushroom catsup, and a little port wine. Let them stew for an hour, and serve them hot. ANOTHER WAV TO STEW CUCUMBERS. Pare the cucumbers, and let them lie in vinegar and water, with a little salt in it; drain them, and put them into a sauce- pan, with a pint of gravy, a slice of lean ham, an onion stuck with one or two cloves, a bunch of parsley and thyme ; let them stew, closely covered, till tender. Take out the cu- cumbers, strain and thicken the gravy with a piece of butter rolled in flour; boil it up, and pour it over the cucumbers. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW CUCUMBERS. Pare a number of cucumbers, slice them the long way, and put them for one hour into salt, vinegar, and water; drain them ; slice three large onions, and put them with the cucum- bers into a frying-pan, with a bit of butter, and some pepper ; fry them till they are of a nice light brown colour, stirring them frequently ; cover them with a large plate, and let them stew gently over a slow fire till they are very tender, which will require a length of time. Cucumbers dressed in this manner are particularly good with roast mutton.