BREWING. 424 than the second, which again bears the same relation to the third. If the goods be glutinous, a longer time will be re- quired for spending the tap, as the drawing off the wort is called. After it is drawn off, it should be boiled as soon as possible. When the process of mashing commences, pour into the mash-tun four gallons of boiling water for every peck of malt to be employed ; if the copp>er is not sufficiently capacious, i boil the remaining quantity of water as quickly as possible, ^ and add it to the mash. When the water has cooled down to the temperature of, say 170“, let one person gradually pour the malt into the tun, while another stirs and mixes it well with the water, which will occupy half an hour at least; then cover up the tun with blankets, carpets, or whatever else is ready at hand. The usual mode of covering with a cap of grist is a waste of malt. When the mash has stood one hour and a half in winter, and one hour in summer, let the wort run off into the vessel destined to receive it, re- turning the first gallon, which may be thick, to the mash. While this mash is preparing, let the copper be again filled with water for the second mash, for which two gallons of water may be employed for every peck. Let it be poured on the malt by one person, while another plies the oar for half an hour ; after it has stood an hour, draw it off; if it be in- tended to brew only one kind of liquor, the second wort may run into the receiver containing the first wort. The third mash should be made with the remaining quantity of water, and may stand three quarters of an hour. The grist may be mashed in two operations ; but it is always preferable to make three mashes. To boil the wort. — Put along with the first ale wort (sup- posing it to have been kept separate for the purpose of brew- ing ale) the whole quantity of hops into the copper ; boil the mixture till the liquor breaks, or becomes clouded with large fleecy flakes. This will take place probably when the wort has been boiled about an hour and a half; the breaking or curdling is best observed by taking a basinful of the wort out of the copper, and suffering it to cool, when the flakes will be distinctly seen in the wort. The tubs having been raised on a support from the floor, and arranged for the cooling process, strain the boiled liquor into them through a riddle or flour sieve; put the hops back into the copper, and boil them again with the second and third wort. The cooling of the boiled wort should be effected with the utmost expedi- tion : in summer it should not, if possible, be laid at a greater