94 MUTTON. lay them upon the back of a sieve to drain befoie the fire. Thicken about half a pint of gravy, add a table-spoonful of catsup, and one of port wine; put the gravy into the dish, and lay in the chops ; garnish with fried parsley or cut lemon. HASHED MUTTON. Cut the meat into small thin bits; pare off the skin and sinews, leaving a little fat; thicken some well-seasoned gravy, add the meat, and let it simmer till it be hot, but do not allow it to boil. A little catsup, port wine, or vinegar, may be put in just before serving. Garnish with sippets of bread or with cut pickles. HASHED MUTTON UKE VENISON. To half a pint of rich gravy, add a large glass of port wine, one table-spoonful of catsup, one tea-spoonful of pounded sugar, a small quantity of minced onion, and ten cloves. Boil about twelve minutes ; strain and put in the sliced mutton, and let it simmer for three minutes. CHINA CHILO. Skin and chop the meat finely, and also part of the fat of a loin of mutton, and season it with a large spoonful of salt, and a tea-spoonful of ground pepper ; add two large onions shred, half a pint of green peas, one lettuce cut small, four spoonfuls of water, and a quarter of a pound of clarified butter. Let all this stew in a pipkin for three hours, and «erve it in the middle of a pound of rice boiled dry. SHEEP'S LIVER. Cut it into slices; wasn it well, and dry it in a cloth ; flour, and season it with pepper and salt, and fry it in butter, with a good deal of minced parsley and an onion ; add a suf- ficient quantity of gravy or hot water to make a sauce, and let it stew a few minutes. It may be fried quite plain, and when cut into slices, should be washed in milk and water. SHEEP'S MINCE. Wash the heart and lights very clean; boil them about half an hour ; mince them finely ; mix a piece of butter with flour, brown it in a stew-pan, and add some of the liquor the heart and lights were boiled in. Put in the mince with some chopped onion ; season with salt and pepper, cover it closely, and let it stew half an hour. Before serving, add a table- spoonful of mushroom catsup.