CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 319 quick oven. The following day, after bread has been baked, put them again into the oven, and let them remain for nearly three hours. SWEET BISCUIT. One pound of flour, half a pound of butter, the same quantity of finely-pounded sugar, and two eggs without being beaten; make it all into a very stiff paste with cold water, roll it out, and to form the biscuits, roll a bit of the paste into a ball about the size of the yolk of an egg, flatten it a little, and place them upon tins to bake. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE SWEET BISCUIT. To one pound of flour, allow half a pound of sugar, two beaten eggs, a tea-spoonful of caraway seeds, and a quarter of a pound of melted butter; mix all well together, roll it out thin, and cut it into round biscuits ; prick them, and bake them upon tins. OLIVER’S BISCUIT. Melt a quarter of a pound of fresh butter in half a pint of new milk ; add a table-spoonful of fresh yeast, and stir it into one pound and a half of flour ; knead it well, then wrap it in warm flannel, to remain for fifteen minutes ; roll it out several times, and the last time about the thickness of a penny-piece ; cut it into small biscuits, prick them well with a fork, and bake them in a slow oven till of a pale brown colour. BISCUITS. Dissolve half a pound of butter in half a pint of milk, and make it into a stiff paste with four pounds of flour ; beat and work it perfectly smooth, roll it out very thin, stamp out the biscuit, prick them well with a fork, and bake them upon tins in a quick oven. LEMAN'S BISCUIT. Sift and dry a pound of fine flour ; rub into it a quarter of a pound of butter, two ounces of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and a bit of volatile salt about the size of a nut; mix in it as much new milk w'armed as will make it into a stiff paste ; work it well together, and let it remain for tw'o or three hours, and then roll it out, and make it into small square biscuits, and into round balls a little flattened; prick them with a fork, and bake them upon tins in a quick oven. Take care they do not become brown.