373 DOMESTIC WINES, &c. To excite fermentation, expose the cask to the influence of the sun, or put it into the corner of a chimney in which a constant fire is kept. In about seven or eight days, the liquor emits a thick and dirty froth; the barrel must then be filled up from the bottles, and when the fermentation ceases, the cask must be bunged up, and placed in the cellar. It may be bottled in twelve months. It is sometimes flavoured with flowers, or with the juice of fruits. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE MEADt For a ten-gallon cask, allow twenty pounds of honey, and fourteen gallons of water; boil and skim it; then add one ounce of cinnamon, one ounce of cardamoms, one and a half ounce of Jamaica pepper, two ounces of ginger, a quarter of an ounce of coriander seed, two large pieces of orris-root, and a few shavings of isinglass; boil these ingredients for about half an hour, and when the mixture has cooled, stir in a wine-glassful of yeast; next day pour it through a cloth into the cask, and allow it to ferment for about ten days; in a fortnight more it may be bottled, and the corks sealed. A variety of this mead may be made by adding a gallon of cran- berry juice to the boiled honey and water, and substituting two ounces of cloves for the coriander and cardamom seeds. SIMPLE MEAD. One part of honey is dissolved in three parts of water, and boiled over a moderate fire till it is reduced to two-thirds of the quantity. It is then skimmed, and put into a barrel, which must be quite full; it is allowed to subside for three or four days, and then drawn off for use. To make it from the combs from which honey has been drained, they are to be beaten in warm water, and after the liquor has subsided, it is to be strained. The cottagers in Scotland make an excellent beer by add- ing a little yeast to the strained liquor, and allowing it to ferment for a few days in a cask, and then bottling it. ORGEAT. A QUARTER of a pound of sweet, and one ounce and a half of bitter almonds, are to be blanched, and thrown into cold water, then beaten in a marble mortar, and moistened oc- casionally with a spoonful of milk, to prevent their oiling; three pints of milk are then to be mixed gradually with them, and after being sweetened, boiled, stirred till cold, and strained, a glass of wine or brandy is to be added.