459 PIGS. CHAPTER XXV. ON PIGS. Pigs may be considered of primary importance to the farmer, and to every other householder, as to them the refuse of the fields, the dairy, and the kitchen, is a feast. Though that food should be gross and dirty, they will not reject it; and they are often reared in cold and filthy habitations ; but it is only by order and cleanliness that successful feeding can be ensured. Where a large stock is kept, their feeding-house should be thirty feet by fifteen ; it may be divided into four rooms — the two in the middle to be adapted for eating, and the others for sleeping apartments ; each should have an out- side door, and also an inner communication, that the keeper may get their eating-rooms swept out, their mangers cleaned, and their food put in, while the pigs are at rest. Each of the above-mentioned eating and sleeping rooms, in case of being required for sows and young pigs, may be divided into two by partitions, made to remove at pleasure. The sleeping apartments ought to be dark; and the house, as also the square, or yard, formed by the huts or other buildings for sows, should be paved, and well littered ; and water should be within reach of the pigs. The manger, or trough, must be always washed out before putting in their victuals; and that which remains in it after the pigs are satisfied, should be given to some of the young stock. From the different varieties having become so much inter- mixed and blended together (this is especially the case in Scotland), it is difficult to describe any particular breed of swine. The Berkshire is allowed to be a good kind. They are generally of a brown, or rather a reddish colour, wdth black spots, the ears bending forward, but not hanging down so much as those of the large Cumberland kind; — they are short-legged and small-boned; their flesh is fine ; and they are well disposed to fatten on common fare.—The large spotted Woburn breed is well formed, prolific, hardy, and kindly disposed to fatten.—The Chinese black, or pot-bellied breed, are small in size, their necks thick, and legs short. They are one of the most profitable sorts in this island, as their flesh is delicate, and they fiitten on very indifferent food, and more readily than any other small breed; indeed they