216 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. manner; and if an old one is used, cut off the bits of meat from the back and legs for the pudding, and make the rest into soup. lobster pie. Take out, as whole as possible, the meat from the tail and claws of two or three boiled lobsters ; cut them into slices, and season them with nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Make a forcemeat of the soft part of the bodies, together with grated bread, some parsley, and one anchovy minced, grated lemon- peel, mace, salt, and pepper, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs bruised, and a bit of butter ; mix it all together with the well-beaten yolk of an egg, and make it up into small balls. Put the lobster into the pie-dish, and cover it with the force- meat balls and hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and more than half a pint of rich white stock, a glass of white wine, and a table- spoonful of lemon juice or vinegar. Cover it with puff paste, and bake it only till the paste be done. ANOTHER LOBSTER PIE. Boil the lobsters, and cut the meat of the tail into four bits ; take out the meat from the claws and bodies, pound it in a mortar, add the soft part of one lobster, and season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; add three table-spoonfuls of vine- gar ; melt half a pound of butter, and mix it with the poun- ded meat and the crumb of a slice of bread grated. Put puff paste round the edge and side of the dish ; put in the tail of the lobster, then a layer of oysters with their liquor, and next the pounded meat; cover it with a puff paste, and bake it till the paste be done. Before serving, pour in some rich gravy, made of a little weak stock in which the lobster shells have been boiled, with an onion, pepper, and salt, and which has been strained and thickened with a bit of butter rolled in flour. HADDOCK PIE. Clean, skin, and wash the haddocks; take off the heads and tails, and cut the flsh into two or three pieces ; season them highly with finely-minced onion, parsley, some salt and pepper ; make forcemeat balls with a small boiled had- dock. Put into the bottom of a dish some bits of butter; add the fish and forcemeat balls, with rather more than half a pint of white stock, and a glass of white wine; put puff paste round the edge of the dish, and cover it with the same