SOUPS. 26 POTAGE A LA VIERGE, Boil a pieix* of the crumb of bread about the size of an egg in a quart of rich stock, pound in a mortar the white meat of a cold roasted fowl and a few sweet almonds ; put these together, and rub them through a tammy, adding a little cream, or half a pint of milk ; season it well, and keep it hot in a water-bath till it is to be served, when two quarts of stock made quite hot, but not boiling, may be added. A SIMPLE SOUP. Cut small one pound of carrots, one pound of turnips, half a pound of onions, one lettuce, a little celery, and a handful of parsley ; stew them for twenty minutes with a quarter of a pound of butter, some salt and pepper; then put them into three quarts of stock, made with two pounds of veal, and add one quart of green peas, and let it stew for three hours. Press it through a sieve, and boil it up before sending it to table. PRUSSIAN SOUP. In seven pints of water boil, till reduced to five, one pound of lean beef, cut in small bits, one pint of split peas, three quarters of a pound of potatoes, three ounces of ground rice, two heads of celery, three leeks, or onions, seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little dried mint; strain it through a cullender. STOVE OR SPINACH SOUP. Boil in two quarts of water three sliced onions. Pick and clean as much spinach as will make two large dishes, parboil and put it in a cullender, to let the bitter water drip from it; let cold water run upon it for a minute or two, and then press out the water. Knead two ounces of fresh but- ter, with a table-spoonful and a half of flour ; mix it with the spinach, which boil for fifteen minutes in the water and onions, then put in half a pint of cream, or good milk, some salt and pepper, and boil it for fifteen minutes more. In the season of green peas, a quart added with the spinach is a great improvement. It is common to boil a lamb’s head and pluck with the soup, and send them to table in the tureen. 1 he soup 13 then called lamb’s stove ; but with the peas it is quite as good without.