42 FISH. and strew over bread crumbs as before ; when done, and of a nice brown, serve them with oyster sauce in the dish. COD SOUNDS BROILED. Let them lie in boiling water till it is nearly cold, rub them with salt, and pull off the black and dirty skin, boil them in hot water, drain, and dust them with flour, rub them over with butter, season with white pepper and salt, and broil them. Put a table-spoonful of catsup, half a one of soy, and a little cayenne, into melted butter, heat and pour it over them. COD SOUNDS FRICASSEED. When cleaned as above, boil them in milk and water, drain, and put them into a sauce-pan with some white stock seasoned with mace, salt, and white pepper ; thicken it with a bit of butter kneaded in flour, and, just before serving, stir in a table-spoonful of lemon pickle; garnish with sippets of thin toasted bread. TO CRIMP SKATE. Skin the skate on both sides, cut it an inch and a hall broad, and as long as the skate; roll up each piece, and tie it with a thread ; lay them for three hours in salt and water, and a little vinegar; boil them fifteen minutes in boiling salt and water ; before serving, cut off the threads. Sauces : — Shrimp, butter, and anchovy. When skate are very small, they are preferable broiled. LARGE SKATE DRESSED LIKE VEAL CUTLETS. CniMP or cut the skate in square pieces, roll them in beaten eggs, and then in grated bread, mixed with chopped parsley, pepper, and salt; fry them of a nice brown colour, and seive with a rich brown gravy. STEWED SKATE. Skin the skate, and cut it into square pieces, and brown It with butter in a frying-pan ; make a rich sauce with the skin and parings, to be boiled in three pints of water, ivith an onion, some pepper and salt; strain and thicken it with a little butter mixed with flour, add some very finely-chopped parsley, and chives ; of hot vinegar, mushroom catsup, and Harvey sauce, a table-spoonful each, and a little cayenne; boil it up, and put in the skate five minutes before servintr it.