PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 207 Chickens, partridges, or grouse, may be substituted for pheasants, and mushrooms for truffles. PARTRIDGE PIE. Truss half-a-dozen partridges in the same way in whicli chickens are done for boiling, and season them with pep- per, salt, and mace. For a forcemeat, bake in an oven two pounds of lean veal, and half a pound of lean ham sliced, and seasoned with a shalot, parsley, and lemon thyme minced, white pepper, nutmeg, and salt, and with half a pound of butter put over it. When the meat is perfectly tender, drain it, pound it in a mortar, and then mix with it the liquor. To a part of this forcemeat, add grated bread and a little chopped fat bacon ; put a bit of it, the size of a walnut, into each bird. Make a raised crust, and form it of an oblong shape ; put into the bottom a layer of sliced bacon and one of veal, and some artichoke bottoms, cut small ; lay in the partridges, over them a layer of forcemeat an inch thick, and then slices of fat bacon ; brush the edges of the top and sides with the beaten-up white of an egg, put on the top, and pinch it close. It will take three hours and a half to bake ; and before serving, the oiitside should be brushed over with the white of an egg, and covered neatly with foolscap paper, cut into a fringe, round the top. This pie may be baked in a dish, and the forcemeat made of cold ham and roast veal pounded. GOOSE PIE. Prep ARK a very strong raised crust, and make the sides thick and stiff. Take the bones out of a goose, turkey, and fowl, cutting each down the back; season them highly with pepper, salt, mace, cloves, and nutmeg, all finely pounded and well mixed. Lay the goose upon a dish, with the breast skin next the dish ; lay in the turkey, put some slices of boiled ham and tongue, and then the fowl; cover it with little bits of ham or bacon. Put it all into the pie, made of an oval form, and the sides to stand an inch and a half above the meat; put on the top, and make a hole in the centre of it. Brush the outside of the pie all over with the beaten whites of eggs, and bind it round with three folds of buttered paper ; paste the top over in the same way, and when it comes out of the oven, take off the paper, and pour in at the top, through a funnel, a pound and a half of melted but- ter.