CAKES, BISCUITS, &c- 301 brandy. Beat all these ingredients well together for half an hour, and bake in a buttered tin three hours. TUNBRIDGE CAKES. Rub two ounces of butter into half a pound of dried flour ; add a few caraway seeds, and a quarter of a pound of poun- ded loaf sugar ; mix it to a stiff paste with a little water, roll it out very thin, cut it into round cakes with a glass or the top of a dredging box, prick them with a fork, and bake them upon floured tins. BRIGHTON CAKES. With one pound of dried and sifted flour, mixhalf a pound of sifted loaf sugar, three ounces ol sweet, and one ounce of bitter almonds pounded with a little rose water, and, if ap- proved, four ounces of cleaned currants; stir into this halt a pound of fresh butter, beaten to a cream ; mix it well together. The cakes may be baked in very small tins, or dropped in rough knobs upon floured tins. SPUNGE BISCUITS. Beat together, for half an hour, four well-beaten eggs, and half a pound of finely-pounded loaf sugar ; then mix in lightly six ounces of dried and sifted flour, and the grated peel of a lemon, or a tea-spoonful of essence of lemon, with a table- spoonful of rose water. Flour the pans, fill them half full, and sift pounded sugar over them. Bake them in a quick oven. Potato flour may be substituted for wheat flour. TEA CAKES With a pound of flour rilb half a pound of butter ; add the beaten yolks of two, and the white of one egg, a quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, and a few caraway seeds ; mix it to a paste with a little warm milk, cover it with a cloth, and let it stand before the fire for nearly an hour; roll out the paste, and cut it into round cakes with the top of a glass, and bake them upon floured tins. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE TEA CAKES. Make into a paste half a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, six ounces of pounded loaf sugar, the grated peel of a large lemon, the yolk and white of one egg, sepa- rately beaten ; roll it out, cut it into cakes, brush them over with the white of an egg, and sift pounded sugar over tiiem. Bake upon tins in a quick oven.