BEEF. 83 has been boiled in may be strained and made into Scots barley broth, or Scots kale. TO STEW OX CHEEK. Clkan the head, as before directed, and parboil it; take out the bone; stew it in part of the liquor in which it was boiled, thickened with a piece of butter mixed with flour, and browned. Cut into dice, or into any fancy shape, car- rots and turnips, as much, when cut, as will fill a pint basin. Mince two or three onions, add the vegetables, and season with salt, black and Jamaica pepper. Cover the pan closely, and stew it two hours. A little before serving, add a glass of port wine or ale. DRESSED OX CHEEK. Prepare it as directed for stewing. Cut the meat into square pieces ; make a sauce with a quart of good gravy, thic- kened with butter mixed with flour ; season with salt, black and Jamaica pepper, a little cayenne, and a table-spoonful of vinegar. Put in the head, and simmer it till quite tender. A few minutes before serving, add a little catsup or white wine. Forcemeat balls may be added. POTTED OX CHEEK May be made of the meat that is left from any one of these dishes. It is cut into small bits, or minced and heated up with a little of the liquor in which the cheek was boiled, seasoned with black and Jamaica pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a little lemon juice or vinegar, then put into a mould, and turned out when required for use. It is used for supper or luncheon, and is eaten with mustard and vinegar. Many excellent and economical dishes are made of an ox cheek; and it is particularly useful in large families. TO DRESS KIDNEYS AND SKIRTS. Wash the kidneys, cut them into slices ; take the skin off the skirts, and cut them into small pieces; dust them with flour, and fry them brown in butter. Simmer them an hour in a pint of gravy, with an onion finely minced, some salt and pepper. A little before serving, add a table-spoonful of mushroom catsup. They may be broiled and eaten like a beef-steak. TO DRESS PALATES AND SWEETBREADS. Boil the palates till the black skin can be easily peeled off;