18 SOUPS. and boil a small bit of lean ham in it, till it is time to serve; take it out before dishing, and have ready some celery stewed in butter, and fried bread cut in dice, and dried mint rubbed very fine, to send to table with it. ANOTHER OLD PEAS SOUP. Boil in four quarts of water a shank of ham, or a piece of bacon, and about half a pound of mutton or salt beef, and a pint of split peas ; boil all togetlier very gently till the peas are quite soft, strain them through a hair sieve, and bruise them with the back of a spoon till all is pulped through ; then boil the soup gently for one hour before serving. Thin slices of bread, toasted and cut in dice, to be served with it, either upon a dish or in the soup; if in the soup, it should be fried in butter, and dried mint rubbed fine sent to table in a small dish. It may be also made with fourpence worth of bones, boiled for some hours in four quarts of water, with a carrot, a head of celery, three onions, some pepper and salt, strained, and the next day the fat taken off, and the peas boiled in the liquor with a little bit of butter, till sufficiently tender to pulp through a sieve. GREEN PEAS SOUP. Put a pint of old green peas into three quarts of water, a slice of the crumb of bread, two onions, a sprig of mint, some salt and pepper; boil them till the peas are perfectly soft, and then pulp them through a sieve; have ready two lettuces stewed tender in butter, and a pint and a half of young green peas boiled; put them into the soup with a little spinach juice, and a quarter of a pint of the juice of the youngest pea pods, and boil it all together before serving. ANOTHER GREEN PEAS SOUP. Shell a quart of green peas not very old ; put the shells into a gallon of cold water, with a bit of bacon or mutton ; boil them till very soft, pour the liquor through a hair sieve, and bruise the shells with a spoon till nothing remains but the skin. Pound in a marble mortar a handful of spinach, mix it with a little of the liquor, and strain it through a sieve, and boil it gently with the rest of the liquor for half an hour; then put in the quart of peas, and when they are boiled the soup is ready. ANOTHER GREEN PEAS SOUP WITHOUT MEAT. Put into a gallon of water a quart of old green peas, and