95 MUTTON. TO COIXAR A BREAST OP MUTTON. Bone it and take out all the gristles; make a forcemeat with crumbs of bread, chopped parsley, a little lemon thyme, and one anchovy minced ; season with salt and white pepper ; rub the mutton over with an egg beaten up, cover it with the forcemeat, roll it firmly, tie it with tape, and put it on in boiling water. Make a good gravy of the bones, two onions, a bunch of parsley and lemon thyme, pepper and salt; strain and thicken it with a piece of butter mixed with flour. A little before serving, add a table-spoonful of vinegar and two of mushroom catsup. Garnish with cut lemon or pickles. THE BREASTS OP MUTTON A LA STE. MENOUX.T Stew them with carrots, onions, and spices in gravy ; and when done, drain them and take out the bones, flatten the meat between two dishes, and when cold cut it into the form of cutlets or hearts; brush them with the beaten yolk of an egg, roll them in grated bread, then in clarified butter, and again in the grated bread. Bake them in an oven till of a fine brown colour, and serve them with a sauce Italienne, or any other sauce. LEG OP MUTTON STOPPED. Carefully bone and cut off all the fat of a leg of mutton, but keep the skin whole; take out the meat also, and mince it with one third of its quantity of fat bacon, and some parsley; season the whole well, stuff the skin with it, and sew it upon the under side; fasten it in a cloth, and put it into a stew-pan, with some slices of veal, some carrots and onions cut small, a bunch of parsley, and one of green onions, and cover the whole with thin slices of fat bacon; let it stew for about four hours, then drain the liquor through a silk sieve, reduce it to a glaze, and glaze the leg of mutton; serve it with haricot beans dressed as follows :—Soak one quart of white haricot beans in water for three hours, and boil them in cold soft water with a little bit of fresh butter. Fry a very large white onion, finely minced, in two ounces of butter; when done, add a table-spoonful of flour, and moisten it with some good gravy, then add a few of the haricot beans, and rub it through a tammy or sieve; season it with pepper and salt. Drain the beans, and add the sauce to them. TO SALT A LEG OP MUTTON. Rub it well with common salt; the next day wipe it dry,