CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 286 DUTCH FLUIVIIVIERY. Boil, with a pint of white wine, some sugar, the juice of two, and the peel of one lemon, a stick of cinnamon, and half an ounce of dissolved isinglass ; strain and mix it with the well-beaten yolks of seven eggs, stir it over the fire till it simmer, hut do not allow it to boil; stir it till quite cold, and put it into a shape. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE DUTCH FLUMMERY. Boil, for ten minutes, in half a pint of white wine, and the same proportion of water, the juice of three, and the peel of two lemons, rather more than a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and an ounce of isinglass dissolved ; strain, and mix it gradually with the beaten yolks of five eggs ; put it again over the fire, and stir it for five minutes ; stir it till cold, and put it into a shape. MOCK ICE. Of preserved strawberries, raspberries, and red currant jelly, a table-spoonful each; rub it through a sieve, with as much cream as will fill a shape ; dissolve three quarters of an ounce of isinglass in half a pint of water; when almost cold, mix it well with the cream, put it into a shape, set it in a cool place, and turn it out the following day. ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE MOCK ICE. Dissolve one ounce of isinglass in half a pint of water; strain, and when nearly cold, mix it with a quart of cream ; simmer it over the fire, and stir it all the time; add some raspberry juice and sugar. Whisk it till almost cold, and put it into a shape. CLEAR APPL-EB. Boil half a pound of loaf sugar in a pint of water ; take off the scum, and put in some large apples, pared, cored, and cut into quarters, with the peel and juice of a lemon; let them boil till clear, without a cover upon the sauce-pan. TO STEW APPLES IN HALVES. Pare the apples, cut them in half, and take out the core: to eight good-sized baking apples allow a pint of w'ater and a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, the peel of a lemon, and half the peel of an orange cut into thin parings ; stew them in a covered sauce-pan till they are soft; serve them with the parings and sirup poured over them.