247 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS APPLE DUniPLlNGS. Pare and scoop out the core of six large baking apples; put part of a clove, and a little grated lemon-peel, inside of each, and enclose them in pieces of puff paste ; boil them in nets for the purpose, or bits of linen, for an hour. Before serving, cut off a small bit from the top of each, and put in a tea-spoonful of sugar, and a bit of fresh butter ; replace the bit of paste, and strew over them pounded loaf sugar. POTATO-FLOUR PUDDING. Boil half a pint of milk, and the same quantity of cream, with a stick of cinnamon, and the peel of a lemon ; strain it, and stir in gradually three table-spoonfuls of potato flour; mix it very smoothly, and add six well-beaten eggs ; sweeten with, pounded loaf sugar. Stick all round a buttered tin mould, dried cherries, or stoned rasins ; put in the pudding, and put a bit of buttered linen over the top, and then the cover of the mould ; place it in a sauce-pan of boiling water, boil it for an hour and a half, taking care the water does not boil over the mould. Serve with a sweet sauce. POTATO PUDDING. Boil a pound of potatoes ; peel and pound them in a mor- tar, and mix them well with half a pound of melted butter, the same of pounded loaf sugar, two ounces of blanched sweet almonds pounded, with two spoonfuls of rose water, eight well-beaten eggs, and half a nutmeg grated ; boil it in a cloth, or buttered basin. Serve with a sweet sauce of wine, sugar, butter, and grated nutmeg. RICE PUDDING. Boil a quarter of a pound of rice in water till it is soft, then drain it in a sieve, and pound it in a mortar; add five well-beaten yolks of eggs, a quarter of a pound of butter, the same proportion of sugar, a small nutmeg, and half the rind of a lemon grated; work them well together for twenty mi- nutes, and add a pound of cleaned currants ; mix it all well, and boil it in a pudding-cloth for an hour and a half. Serve with wine sauce. WHOLE RICE PUDDING. Boil, in water sufficient to cover it, eight table-spoonfuls of rice till quite swelled ; put it into a basin ; stir in about two ounces of butter, of grated bread and brown sugar two