472 APPENDIX—No. II. with the fowl, and rather more than an ounce of butter, put them into a closely covered stew-pan; and when the fowl is a little browned, take it out, strain the liquor, mix with it one ounce of currie powder, and a pint of stock or water, add the fowl, and stew it very gently until quite tender. A little before serving, stir in half a tea-cup of cream, and a tea-spoonful of lemon juice or vinegar. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE CURRIE POWDER. One pound and a half of corriander seed, three ounces of mus- tard seed, six ounces of cummin seed. These three articles are to be browned before the fire, and then well mixed with eleven ounces of turmeric, three ounces of cayenne, six ounces of black pepper, four ounces of fennigreck seed, four ounces of salt, and four ounces of garlic; the whole to be pounded before being mixed, and then to be ground in a fine pepper-roill. About one ounce is sufficient for a moderate sized dish. Vegetables improve all meat curries, and grated carrot especially. STUFFING FOR PARTRIDGES AND PHEASANTS. Parboil the livers, mince and mix them with a little grated bread, pepper, salt, and a good bit of butter, and put the mixture inside of the game. For pigeons, mix the minced livers with pepper, salt, and a bit of butter. ANOTHER HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. One tea-cup of finely grated horse-radish, one table-spoonful of salad oil, two of vinegar, half a one of mustard, and half a pint of cream. All these ingredients to be well mixed together. MACARONI SAUCE. Break the macaroni in small bits, and soak it in milk and water for an hour, then boil it gently for three quarters of an hour; strain and add it to some nicely seasoned white sauce, and when quite hot, pour it over boiled chickens, turkey, or fowl. POTTED TOMATAS. Stew a quantity of tomatas very gently, stir them constantly, and when quite soft rub them through a tammy or sive. Mix with the pulp an equal quantity of good brown, glaze and boil it quickly till it will jelly. Put it into earthen-ware jars, and when cold, cover with paper dipped in brandy, and pour upon the top clarified beef suet or hogslard, and tie bladder over. To be added to melted butter or gravy, for chops, steaks, and roasted meat. TOMATAS PLAIN. Boil the tomatas slowly, and when the juice or water that