APPENDIX—No. II. 474 pounded, and a wine glass of white wine; put it into a tin or earthenware shape buttered, and steam it for an hour. Before serving, stick over the top cut sweet almonds and citron, and a little pounded sugar. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE BREAD PUDDING. Pot a pint of grated bread into a sauce-pan, and as much milk as will quite cover it; add grated nutmeg, cinnamon, and the peel of a lemon, and boil it nearly ten minutes. Sweeten with pounded sugar; take out the lemon-peel, and mix in four well- beaten eggs, and one ounce of butter, and boil it in a buttered basin or mould for one hour. It may be baked. Serve with a sweet sauce. VELVET CREAM. Put half an ounce of isinglass into a quarter of a pint of boil- ing milk, let it stand till cold; add half the peel of a lemon, two ounces of pounded sugar, and one pint of cream, stir it gently, and let it boil four or five minutes; strain and stir it till cold. Put some apricot, yellow plum, or orange jelly into a glass dish, with the grated peel and jmce of half a lemon, and pour the cream upon it, holding the jug as high as possible. Put a little jelly on the top. ROTHER GRULTZ, TO BE EATEN WITH MILK OR CREAM. Two pounds of fresh currants and a few raspberries, or all rasp- berries, to be boiled, and the juice pressed from them. Four ounces of pearl sago or ground rice, to be boiled with six ounces of loaf sugar, and three pints of water, for twenty-minutes, or till it looks like jelly. The juice to be added, and the whole to be put into a shape, and turned out when cold. LACONIA CAKE. One pound of flour, half a pound of brown sugar, the same quantity of cleaned currants, or of stoned raisins, chopped in small bits, and three well-beaten eggs. Dissolve half a pound of butter in a quarter of a pint of milk warmed; mix all the ingredients well together, and add twenty or thirty drops of essence of lemons, or the grated peel of a lemon, and a small tea-spoonful of soda. Bake the cake in a buttered tin for nearly two hours.