194 VEGETABLES. TO STEW BEET-ROOT Mix half an ounce of butter with a little flour, melt it in rather more than half a pint of water, add some salt and pepper ; wash a middling-sized root, scrape and cut it into slices, put it into the sauce-pan, with the butter; cover the pan closely, and stew it for an hour and ten minutes. Before serving, add a large table-spoonful of vinegar. TO STEW CELERY. Wash and clean some heads of celery, cut them into pieces of two or three inches long, and boil them in veal stock till tender. To half a pint of cream, add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, a bit of lemon-peel, grated nutmeg, and salt, also a bit of butter; make it hot, stirring it constantly; strain it upon the celery; heat it thoroughly, but do not let it boil. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW CELERY. Cut off the green tops and the outside of a few heads of celery; cut them into small pieces ; wash them well; boil them in salt and water till tender ; pour off nearly all the water ; add some butter, mixed with flour, a little good cream, salt, and pepper, and heat it all together. TO STEW SORREL A LA FRANCAISE. s Strip the leaves from the stalks, wash them well, scald them in boiling water in a silver sauce-pan, or in an earthen pipkin; strain, and stew them in a little gravy till tender. Serve with hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters. ENDIVE WITH GRAVY OF VEAL. Wash and clean thoroughly ten or twelve heads of fine endive, take ofl' the outer leaves, and blanch the heads in hot water ; throw them into cold water, and then squeeze them as dry as possible. Stew them in as nnich gravy as will cover them ; add a tea-spoonful of pounded sugar, and a little salt. When perfectly tender, put in a little veloutee sauce, and serve quite hot, TO STEW YOUNG PEAS AND LETTUCE. Wash and make perfectly clean one or two heads of cab- bage lettuce; pick off the outside leaves, and lay them for two hours in cold water, with a little salt in it; then slice them, and put them into a sauce-pan, with a quart or three