3G6 DOMESTIC WINES, &c. cold day towards the end of February or beginning of March, when, if fine, as it will sometimes be, it may be bottled with- out farther precaution. To ensure its fineness, however, it is a better practice to rack it, towards the end of Decem- ber, into a fresh cask, so as to clear it from its first lees; or should it then prove too sweet, instead of racking it, the fermentation may be renewed by stirring up the lees, or by rolling the cask. At whatever time it is racked, it should be fined in the usual way with isinglass. Sometimes it is found expedient to rack it a second time, and to repeat the fining; and, in any case, bottle it during the month of March. If it is wished to have a very sweet wine, as w'ell as a brisk wine, the quantity of sugar may be increased to forty pounds ; and to ensure briskness, without excessive sweetness, the proportion of fruit may be fifty pounds when the sugar is thirty. If there should appear any danger of the sweetness vanishing altogether from wine thus formed, the fermenta- tion may be checked by racking and fining, when it will be speedily fit for use. WINE FROM UNRIPE CURRANTS. This fruit is perhaps better calculated for brisk wines than the gooseberry; greater care must be taken in separating the stalks, but otherwise the mash is more easily managed. By working the juice and solid matter together in the vat along with the sugar, the wine will prove stronger, and less sweet, but it will acquire more flavour. When the skins are not to be fermented with the liquid, it may be introduced at once into the cask, without being previously fermented in the vat, and in all cases strained before it is put into the cask. The same proportions are allowed for this wine as for gooseberry wine, and the same rules may be followed. SWEET WINE FROM RIPE CURRANTS. The fruit is gathered when quite ripe, and the stalks being carefully picked out, it is bruised in the liands, and then strained through a canvass bag; to a ten-gallon cask, forty pounds of fruit, thirty of sugar, and a quarter of a pound of tartar are allowed; the material having remained some hours in the tub in which it was mixed, it is removed to the cask, the bung-hole covered with a tile, and the cask is stirred every other day, for ten days, and filled up every day as the fluid wastes. The fermentation may continue from three to six weeks ; when it has subsided, the wine is racked into a cask in which matches, dipped in sulphur, have been