GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. 180 suet, or fat of veal, taking an equal quantit}' of meat, suet, and grated bread crumbs, adding a bit of fat bacon chopped, seasoning with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and mixing all well together with a beaten yolk of an egg. STUFFING FOR TURKEY OR FOWL. Wash a quart of oysters in their own liquor; strain it, and put into it the oysters, with a little mace, whole pepper, and lemon-peel ; when parboiled, chop small a dozen and a half, add an equal weight of grated bread, twice the quantity of finely-minced beef suet, the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, one anchovy, a little salt, pepper, nutmeg, lemon-peel, and some minced parsley ; bind it with the beaten yolks of two eggs. For the sauce, boil with the liquor of the oysters a pint of white stock, half a pint of white wine, one anchovy, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; strain it, and add a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour; heat it up with the remainder of the oysters. STUFFING FOR FOWLS, PHEASANTS, OR TURKEYS. A T.iTTLE hog’s lard, the liver of a fowl minced, a little parsley and cibol minced, and a very little salt; the mixture to be put inside the fowl, w'hich is then sewed up. GRAVY AND STUFFING FOR DUCKS. Boil all the giblets, excepting the liver, for an hour in a pint of water, with a chopped onion, some salt, and pepper ; strain, and add a very little browning, with a tea-spoonful of coratch, and one of mushroom catsup. For the stuffing, mince the raw liver with two sage leaves, a small onion, some pep- per and salt, a bit of butter, and grated bread crumbs. FORCEMEAT ONIONS. Peel four or five large onions, scoop out the inside, fill them with forcemeat, and roast them in an oven. They may be served with roast turkey or fowl. KITCHEN SPICE FOR WHITE SAUCE. Pound two ounces of white pepper, a quarter of an ounce of mace ; grate one nutmeg, and the peel of one lemon ; mix all together in a hottlc. ANOTHER KITCHEN SPICE FOR GENERAL USE. One ounce of black pepper, and of Jamaica pepper, cin- namon, nutmeg, and ginger, half an ounce each, and eight