PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 218 and, with one two sizes less, mark it in the middle about half through. When they are baked, carefully cut out the inner top of the paste, and scoop out the inside, so as to make room for the mince, which put in, and place on the top. VEAZ. PATTIES. Mince some under-done veal with a little parsley, one or two sage leaves, a very little onion; season with grated lemon- peel, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; add some grated lean ham or tongue, moisten it with some good gravy, heat it up, and put it into the patties. PATTIES IN FRIED BREAD. Cut the crumb of a loaf of bread into square or round pieces nearly three inches high, and cut bits the same width for tops ; mark them neatly with a knife; fry the bread of a light brown colour in clarified beef dripping or fine lard. Scoop out the inside crumb, taking care not to go too near to the bottom; fill them with minced meat, prepared as for patties, with stewed oysters, or with sausage meat; put on the tops, and serve them upon a napkin. VOt-AU-VENT. Cut some cold turkey or veal into small thin slices; sea- son it with dried lemon-peel grated, white pepper, pounded mace, and salt; add one anchovy, some garlic and onion pounded, also a little good gravy, a table-spoonful of lemon pickle, one of white wine, and half an ounce of butter rolled in flour ; then make it quite hot, but do not allow it to boil, and serve it in the prepared vol-au-vent. The gravy may be made with the bones, or a little cream, and the beaten yolk of an egg may be substituted for the cream. ANOTHER WAY TO IVIAKE VOL-AU-VENT. In opening the oysters, separate them from the liquor, which must be strained; take off the beards, and add to them the liquor, together with some white stock, a bit of butter rolled in flour, two or three blades of mace, a bit of lemon-peel, white pepper, and salt; simmer them for fifteen or twenty minutes, and a little before putting them into the vol-au-vent, pick out the mace and lemon-peel, add a table- spoonful of white wine and three of good cream, and make it quite hot. To make oyster patties: when they are bearded, cut them into three or four bits, and prepare them in the same manner.