475 APPENDIX—No. III. CHESNUT SOUP. Half roast about a hundred line chesnuts, take off the outer and second skins, then boil them in a little good stock till quite tender. When well done, strain them through a seive, mois- tening them all the time with the stock, the same as for carrot or peas soup. The stock should be made with veal or beef, fla- voured with vegetables. GREEN PEAS SOUP. One pound of split green pease, a good quantity of spinach, four leeks, some mint fresh or dry, a little brown sugar, and cayenne pepper, with a strong beef stock. The peas to be sof- tened with a little water and a table-spoonful of butter. The spinach and leeks well boiled by themselves; then all mixed gradually with the stock. In summer add fresh peas and lettuce. PORK A LA BRAISE. Salt a leg of pork four or five days, stuff it with any kind of stuffing you like, but some people prefer it made of parsley and green herbs. Par-boil the leg, then take off the outer skin, and rub«the leg well with bread crumbs and seasoning. Roast and serve up with brown gravy and bread sauce.—N.B. The pork must be kept basting with crumbs while roasting, and if not sufficiently fat, a little dripping or butter must be used to baste it. DRESSED LOBSTER. Take tbe meat from tbe shell, and mince it, but not too fine. Make a sauce for it with some well seasoned stock and a little cream. If the lobster has any spawn, pound and add it to the sauce; then heat the meat thoroughly in the sauce, and serve it in the shells with fried bread crumbs on the top. Garnish with fried parsley. TOMATA SAUCE. WARM your tomatas until you can skin them, beat the pulp with finely grated ham, onions, parsley, thyme, salt to taste, and a little Lucca oil; pass through a seive. This is a good sauce for macaroni. Serve very hot. TOMATA SAUCE FOR BOTTLING. Remove the stalks and pips of six tomatas, put them in a stew-pan with half an onion sliced, a little thyme, a bay leaf, half an ounce of celery, one oimce of ham, the same of butter, a tea-spoonful of sugar, tbe same of salt, a quarter of a tea-spoon- ful of pepper. Set on the fire to stew gently; when tender, add two tea-spoonsful of flour. Moisten with half a pint of broth,