SOUPS. 8 ANOTHER SOUP CRESSY. Wash clean, and cut small, eight carrots, eight turnips, three heads of celery, and six onions ; put them in a stew- pan with a quarter of a pound of butter and a slice of ham, stew them gently for an hour, stirring them constantly ; when tney begin to brown, add as much gravy soup as will fill the tureen ; let it boil till the vegetables are sufficiently tender to to pulp with a spoon through a sieve, after which put it on the fire and boil it half an hour ; skim, and season it with pepper and salt. This soup should be as thick as melted butter. Two' pounds of beef boiled in four quarts of water till reduced to three, will answer for the soup. SCOTCH HARE SOUP. Skin the hare, taking care to preserve the blood ; cut the hare in pieces, wash it clean, cut off the fleshy parts of the back and hind legs; put all the rest on in a stew-pan with a table-spoonful of butter ; keep the cover on close, and let it stew half an hour ; stir it now and then. In another sauce-pan put about two ounces of butter, and three table- spoonfuls of flour ; brown it nicely. Mix the blood with four quarts of cold water, strain it, and with the rest of the meat add it to the browned butter ; stir it constantly, and when it boils put it to the hare which is stewing, and add one carrot, one head of celery, and three large onions cut small; season with pepper and salt. Let it boil from two hours to two hours and a half, according as the hare may be young or old. .Just before serving, pick out all the bones, the carrot, and celery. ANOTHER SCOTCH HARE SOUP. Cut oft' all the meat in large pieces ; stew the hones in three quarts of water with two heads of celery, five or six onions, some black pepper, salt, and cold-meat bones. Have ready half a pound of rice, well browned, and add to it two ounces of browned butter ; break the blood of the hare well in water, strain and add it cold to the browning; stir it constantly till it boils, then add the stock strained, and the |)ieces of the hare, and stew it all together till sufficiently done. HARE SOUP. Cut the hare in joints as for a fricassee, and put it in a stew-pan, with a little allspice, three blades of mace, some