GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. 168 FRENCH MELTED BUTTER. Mix, in a stew-pan, with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a table-spoonful of flour, a little salt, half a gill of water, half a spoonful of white vinegar, and a little grated nutmeg. Put it on the fire, stir it, and let it thicken, but do not allow it to boil, lest it should taste of the flour. Or, put a quarter of a pound of butter into a sauce-pan ; keep shaking it till it be melted and quite hot. BREAD SAUCE. Boil, in a pint of water, the crumb of a French roll or of a slice of bread, a minced onion, and some whole white pepper. When the onion is tender, drain off the water, pick out the peppercorns, and rub the bread through a sieve ; then put it into a sauce-pan, with a gill of cream, a bit of butter, and a little salt. Stir it till it boil, and serve it in a sauce-tureen. ANOTHER BREAD SAUCE. Mix, in rather more than half a pint of milk or water, a slice of grated bread, a dessert-spoonful of potato flour, a small onion pounded, a bit of butter the size of a walnut, a few whole peppercorns, a little mace, and salt. Boil it well, pick out the spices, and mix it smooth. Serve quite hot. ANOTHER BREAD SAUCE. Cut a large onion into four pieces ; parboil it in water, and then boil it in milk with some black peppercorns till it be perfectly soft; strain the milk over grated brown bread ; let it stand for an hour, then mix with it a good bit of butter dusted with flour ; stir it till it boil, and serve it in a sauce- tureen.' FISH SAUCE. Chop two dozen of whole anchovies, mix with them half a pint of anchovy liquor, two shalots cut small, and three pints of port wine, one of vinegar, one lemon sliced, one handful of scraped horse-radish, and ten blades of mace, one nutmeg, twelve peppercorns, six cloves, all bruised, and one table-spoonful of flour of mustard. Boil these together about fifteen or twenty minutes ; when cold, strain and bottle it, waxing the corks. It will keep good for a year. A table-spoonful improves oyster sauce, and that quantity is sufficient for a sauce-tureen of melted butter.