VEGETABLES. 198 dry without being bruised; let them lie some time before the fire, and then put them into small paper bags, each contain- ing about a pint, and hang them up in the kitchen. Before using, soak them for two or three hours in water, and then boil them as directed for green peas, adding a little bit of butter, when they are put on to boil. TO KEEP FRENCH BEANS FOR WINTER USE. Gather them when young, and on a dry day ; put a layer of salt into a jar, and then one of about two inches thick of beans ; do this till the jar be nearly full; place a small plate upon the top of them, and tie bladder closely over the jar; keep it in a cool dry place. When to be used, soak them a night in cold water, and change it on them repeatedly in the course of the day they are to be dressed. Cut them, and put them on in boiling water. TO MAKE SOUR KROUT. The best cabbage for this purpose is the drum, or white Strasburg, and it should not be used till it has endured some severe frost ; the stocks are then cut into halves, and shred down as fine as possible with a knife, or more properly wdth a plane made in the form of a cucumber slice. Burn a little juniper in a cask or tub which is perfectly sound and clean, and put a little leaven into the seam round the bottom,— flour and vinegar may be substituted for leaven; then put in three or four handfuls of cabbage, a good sprinkling of salt, and a tea-spoonful of caraway seed, and press this hard with a wooden mallet; next add another layer of cabbage, with salt and caraway seed, as at first; and so on in the same manner until the cask be full, pressing down each layer firmly as you advance. A good deal of water will come to the top, of which a part may be taken off. The cask being full, put on the head so as to press upon the cabbage, and place it in a warm cellar to ferment; when it has worked well for three weeks, take off the scum which will have gathered on the top, and lay a clean cloth on the krout; replace the head, and put two or three heavy stones upon it. The juice should always stand upon the top. Thus, in a good cellar, it will keep for years. When to be dressed, it is boiled for five or six hours in water, or stewed wdth a little gravy, and may be also sub- stituted for a crust over a beef-steak pie, when cheese is grated over it.