PRESERVES. 332 and a half of finely-pounded loaf sugar ; put each alternately into a preserving pan, shake it frequently till the sugar be dissolved; carefully remove the fruit from the sides of the pan, and stir it round gently with a thevil or a silver spoon ; when it boils, skim it, and let it boil twenty-five minutes; or the sugar may be clarified, boiled candy high, and the fruit and currant juice added to it. RASPBERRY JAM. Weigh equal proportions of pounded loaf sugar and of raspberries ; put the fruit into a preserving pan, and with a silver spoon bruise and mash it well; let it boil six minutes ; add the sugar, and stir it well with the fruit; when it boils, skim it, and boil it for fifteen minutes. RASPBERRY JELLY. Put into a jar raspberries and white currants in equal quantities ; let them be thoroughly heated on the fire in a water bath, then run them through a jelly-bag, and to every pint of juice add a pound of pounded sugar ; let it just boil, take it off the fire, and skim it; repeat this two or three times till it is quite clear, when it will be sufficiently done. TO PRESERVE BLACK CURRANTS. Gather the currants upon a dry day; to every pound allow half a pint of red currant juice, and a pound and a half of finely-pounded loaf sugar. With scissors, clip off the heads and stalks ; put the juice, sugar, and currants into a preserving pan ; shake it frequently till it boils ; carefully remove the fruit from the sides of the pan, and take off the scum as it rises ; let it boil for ten or fifteen minutes. This preserve may be eaten with cream, or made into tarts. BLACK CURRANT JAM. Allow equal weight of dipt currants and of pounded loaf sugar ; bruise and mash the fruit in a preserving pan over the fire ; add the sugar; stir it frequently; when it boils, skim, and lot it boil for ten minutes. WHITE OR RED CURRANT JAM. Pick the fruit very nicely, and allow an equal quantity of finely-pounded loaf sugar ; put a layer of each alternately into a preserving pan, and boil for ten minutes ; or they may be boiled the same length of time in sugar previously clari- fied, and boiled candy high.