SOUPS. a stew-pan with three onions cut small, and two ounces of butter; let it brown well, stirring it to prevent the onions from burning; then add four quarts of water, one head of celery, of carrots and turnips two each, with some whole black pepper and salt; boil it gently for four hours; strain it; and the next day tftke off the fat. When it is heated, add some vermicelli, previously boiled in M'ater, and serve it after boiling ten minutes. CURRIE SOUP. Mince small three or four onions, according to their size; put them into a sauce-pan with two ounces of butter, dredge in some flour, and fry them till of a light brown, taking care not to burn them ; rub in by degrees a large table-spoonful and a half of currie-powder, till it be quite a paste ; gradually stir in three quarts of gravy soup, mixing it well together; boil it gently till it be well flavoured with the currie-powder ; strain it into another sauce-pan, and add a fowl skinned and cut in small pieces, dividing each joint; stew it slowly an hour. In half a pint of the soup put a large table-spoonful of tamarinds, and stew them so as to separate the stalks and stones ; strain and stir it into the soup with half a tea-spoon- ful of salt, and boil it for fifteen minutes before serving. ANOTHER CURRIE SOUP. Boil a shank of veal for stock; strain, and let it stand till cold; take off all the fat. Skin and cut a large fowl into pieces; boil it, and add the water it was boiled in to the stock, with two large table-spoonfuls of currie-powder, the same of onions finely minced, one ounce of butter mixed with flour ; put in the fowl, and let it simmer for three hours ; and a little before serving, stir in two table-spoonfuls of rich cream. SOUP CRESSY. Slice twelve large onions, and fry them pretty brovvn in a quarter of a pound of fresh butter ; scrape and clean two dozen of good red carrots; boil them in four quarts of water till quite soft, pound them in a marble mortar, mix them with the onions, and add the liquor in which the carrots were boiled, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, salt, a blade of mace, and two or three cloves ; let them all boil about an hour, then rub them through a hair sieve ; put it on again to boil rather quickly, till it be as thick as rich cream. Put a little dry boiled rice in the tureen, and pour the soup over it. If the carrots are large, one dozen will be found .sufficient.