162 GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE GRAVY. Dip a beef liver into water; wipe it, and rub over it some salt and coarse brown sugar; let it lie seven or eight days, turning it frequently; boil, in £is much water as will quite cover the liver, one ounce of saltpetre, and three of common salt; wipe the liver dry, and put it into the pickle ; let it lie for six weeks, then hang it to dry. Boil for an hour and a half, in a pint of water, a slice of this nearly the size of three fingers, a carrot, an onion, and some pepper ; strain, and use it for gravy. TO CLARIFY GRAVY. Clarify gravy drawn from beef or veal, with the beaten whites of eggs, allowing one white to a quart. Gravies and sotips which are to be clarified should be made very strong, and be highly seasoned. TO MAKE GRAVY WITHOUT MEAT. Slice three onions, and fry them brown in a little butter ; add them to half a pint of water, and the same of beer, put in some peppercorns, salt, a little lemon-peel, three cloves, a little mace or Jamaica pepper, a spoonful of walnut pickle, and one of mushroom catsup, of soy and essence of anchovy a dessert-spoonful each, a small bunch of sweet herbs, and a quarter of a slice of bread toasted brown on both sides ; simmer all together in a closely-covered sauce-pan for twenty minutes, then strain it for use, and when cold, take off the fat. It will taste exactly like a gravy made with meat. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE GRAVY WITHOUT MEAT. Knead a good deal of flour into a piece of butter the size of an egg; fry it in a frying-pan over a clear fire, stir it con- stantly with a wooden spoon till it become a nice brown co- lour, taking particular care that it be made perfectly smooth ; pour in some boiling water, add a little finely-minced onion, some whole black pepper, and a little salt; put it into a small sauce-pan, cover it closely, and simmer it for a short time; strain, and mix with it a little mushroom catsup and port wine. TO MAKE GRAVY FOR ROAST MEAT. When the spit is taken from the meat, a good deal of gravy will run into the dish; pour in addition to this a little boiling water and salt over the under part of the bone of the beef or over the shank-bone of a leg or shoulder of mutton, taking great care not to let it run over the meat.