4 SOUPS. tea-spoonful of salt ; stir this into the soup, and simmer it gently till the veal is quite tender. MULLAGATAWNY, OR CURRIE BROTH. Make about two quarts of strong veal broth, seasoned with two onions, a bunch of parsley, salt and pepper; strain it, and have ready a chicken, cut in joints and skinned; put it into the broth, with a table-spoonful of currie-powder; boil the chicken till quite tender, and a little before serving, add the juice of a lemon, and stir in a tea-cupful of cream. Serve boiled rice to eat with this broth. MULLAGATAWNY. Boil slowly in two quarts of water one pound of split peas, half an ounce of butter, two onions sliced, a little salt, cayenne, and two blades of mace. When the peas are tender, put in a large fowl, cut in joints and skinned, two quarts of boiling water, or stock, if the soup be required v(;ry rich ; twenty minutes before serving, add a large table- spoonful of currie-powder, and the same of ground rice. CALF’S-HEAD SOUP, OR MOCK TURTLE. Parboil a calf’s head, take off the skin and cut it in bits about an inch and a half square ; cut the fleshy parts in bits, take out the black part of the eyes, and cut the rest in rings; skin the tongue, and cut it in slices; add it all to three (piarts of good stock, and season it with cayenne, two or three blades of mace, salt, the peel of half a lemon, and half a pint of white wine, with about a dozen of forcemeat balls; stew all this an hour and a half; rub down with a little cold water, two table-spoonfuls of flour, mix well amongst it half a pint of the soup, and then stir it into the pot; put in the juice of half a large lemon, and the hard-boiled yolks of eight eggs; let it simmer for ten minutes, and then put it all in the tureen. When eggs are scarce, boil two eggs hard, pound the yolks in a mortar with a pinch of salt, adding the yolk of a raw egg; when w'ell mixed together, put them on a table dusted with flour, roll them in the form of a small sausage, and cut them into very small equal parts ; round every piece in the palm of the hand with a little flour, and put them on a plate as they are done; give them a boil in boiling w ater, then put in fresh cold water; drain them through a tammy before putting them into the soup, ragout, or any dressed dish.