433 KITCHEN GARDEN. PARSNIP. Tuis plant requires a stronger soil than the carrot; it pre- fers a light loam ; but any soil will do, provided it be pretty deep. The seed, which should never be more than a year old, is sown in March ; the plants are afterwards thinned out to about eight or ten inches asunder, and are kept clear of weeds. When the leaves begin to decay, the roots are fit for use. They may be stored as carrots; or, as frost will not injure them, they may be allowed to remain in the ground till the beginning of February, but not longer, as then the flower- stalks begin to form, when the roots would become string}'. SCORZONERA. The seeds of scorzonera are sown in the middle o'” April, in a cool deep soil, in drills about a foot separate. Afterwards the plants are thinned out to within four inches apart. The roots may be either lifted in November, and stored as carrots, or they may remain in the ground all winter. 8AI.SZFY. Salsify is sown in April, and afterwards thinned to within six or eight inches apart. A mellow and deep soil affords the best plants. The roots may remain in the ground, and be taken up as wanted throughout the winter. SKXRRET. A LIGHT deep soil is most suitable for the skirret, and should it be naturally moist, so much the better. In dry soils, or in long-continued droughts, watering is advisable. The seeds are sown in April, and repeated thinning and hoeing are necessary. When the leaves begin to decay in autumn, the roots are fit for use; they will not be injured by frost, and may therefore remain in the ground till wanted. RED BEET. Red beet requires a light, but rich soil, of considerable depth, that has not been recently manured. The ground should be trenched, or very deeply delved, and broken small with the spade. The seed is sown in April, in drills an inch deep, and fifteen inches asunder. In autumn, beet-root is generally stored amongst sand in a cellar, or some place that will completely exclude the frost. In lifting it, great care must be taken that the roots be not anywise injured or broken, 2 K