APPENDIX —N«. il. 4(J0 ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE HAGGIS. Thoroughly cleanse and'parboil the pluck; save half a pint of the liquor. The following day, mince the pluck very small, with one pound of tender beef steak, half a pound of fresh beef suet, three or four large onions; season it highly with pepper and salt, add a small handful of oatmeal toasted, and mix all the in- gredients well together, with the half-pint of liquor, and a wine glassful of catsup. Put it into the bag, prick it with a fork, and boil it for three hours and a half. Should the appearance of the bag not be liked, the haggis may be boiled in a jar tied over. FRICANDELLANS. Mince small one pound of the lean part of cold lamb or veal, soak a large slice of the crumb of bread in boiling milk ; mash it, and mix with it the minced meat, a beaten egg, some boiled parsley minced, a little grated lemon peel, pepper and salt. Make it into small flat cakes, and fry them in butter. Serve with or without gravy. ROLLED PORK. Rub salt over the belly or spring piece, sometimes called the flank piece, and let it lie two days. Then rub it well with two handfuls of salt, twopence worth of saltpetre, and about half a pound of coarse brown sugar; sprinkle over the inside a little ground white pepper; roll it very tightly and bind it round with broad tape. Turn and rub it daily for a fortnight. Make a strong pickle, and when cold, put in the roll, and let it lie for two weeks, and then hang it to dry in a cold place. MACARONI PUDDING. Parboil the macaroni in water, and then boil it in milk, and when it is tender, wind it round a buttered mould; put a layer of highly seasoned forcemeat, and then a fricassee of chicken or sweet-breads cut small; fill up the mould with macaroni, and, lastly, a layer of forcemeat. Put a piece of white paper on it, and then the cover of the mould; place it in a pan of boiling water, and let it simmer gently for an hour and a quarter. Serve with a white sauce poured over it. Mushrooms may be added with the fricassee. TO SCALLOP EGGS. Butter the scallop shells, put into them a thick layer of nicely fried bread crumbs, season with pepper and salt. Poach the eggs, put them into the shells, and then add more fried bread crumbs, and broAvn them a little before the fire. The pepper and salt may be omitted.