FISH. 43 DRESSED SKATE. Cut the skate into pieces ; make a stock of the skin and fins with a haddock or a bit of veal, the shell of a lobster or crab washed, two or three onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; boil it one hour, strain, and thicken it with flour and butter browned, a little soy, catsup, and a glass of white wine, some salt, and pepper ; put in the skate, simmer it a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, and serve it as a side dish, or as soup, when a few oyster loaves may be put in the tureen. TO FRY SMALL SKATE. Clean, wash, and lay them one or two hours in vinegar, or vinegar and water, with a sliced onion, some chopped parsley, pepper, and salt; drain, and dry them well, dip them into beaten eggs, dredge them with flour, and fry them of a fine brown colour; garnish with fried parsley. Sauces ; — iMelted butter, and shrimp sauce. SKATE WITH LIVER SAUCE. CiUMP or cut the skate into pieces, boil, and serve on it a sauce made as follows: — Put into a sauce-pan, parsley, cibol, mushrooms, a clove of garlic, all finely minced, and a little butter; give it a turn or two on the fire, and add a good dust of flour, then a bit of butter, capers, and a minced anchovy, the liver of the skate, first boiled and bruised, pepper, and salt; moisten it with gravy or water, and thicken it on the fire. TO CLEAN AND PREPARE SKATE FOR KEEPING. Wash them thoroughly, and rub them over with a hand- ful of salt; rinse them, cut off the tail, and pare off the fins all round; hang them upon a fish-hake in the open air. and they will keep good for several days. BOILED CARP. Scale and clean a brace of carp, reserving the liver and roe ; take half a pint of vinegar, or a quart of sharp cider ; add as much water as will cover the fish, a piece of horse- radish, an onion cut into into slices, a little salt, and a fagot of sv/eet herbs ; boil the fish in this liquor, and make a sauce as follows : — Strain some of the liquor the fish has been boiled in, and put to it the liver minced, a pint of port wine, two anchovies, two or three heads of shalots chopped, some