PIGS. 4GI the sow and weaned, whether with the breeder or purchaser, they must be regularly fed three times a-day with a little wheat bran, barley dust, or meal of some description or other, mixed with water, made milk-warm ; in a few weeks after, they may have some potatoes, turnips, or any kind of grain; and after the harvest is concluded, they may be allowed to range at large among the fields, to pick up any left corn, beans, or peas. Before going out in the morning, they may receive a feeding of olFal grain ; and in the evening, an allow- ance of yams or turnips. They may also get the refuse from the garden, kitchen, and dairy; milk and whey is the finest of all fattening. When the pigs are put up to close feeding, they should have three meals a-day of potatoes, which have been strained, mixed with barley or any other meal, moist- ened with milk, whey, or water, and seasoned with a little salt; it should be given regularly, and only in such quanti- ties as will be consumed with a relish. This will be found the best and most economical food; but where the trouble attending the preparation of it is considered too great, the next best method is to mix oats with barley, in the proportion of one part to four of barley, which will prevent the pigs from eating it too quickly; the oats being husky, require a longer time to be chewed. Buck-wheat is a quick and good fatten- ing, somewhat similar to barley, not so good as peas; but peas are sometimes put amongst buck, for the same purpose that oats are mixed with barley. Pigs that are fed from the refuse of breweries are liable to eruptive diseases. When- ever grains are used for feeding, they should be fresh, and given in moderate qiiantities, and should only form a part of their diet; they will also feed well on the spent hops of the breweries. Sweet whey, unless given in very moderate quan- tities, is injurious to pigs; but when it becomes sourish, it proves very wholesome food. It is too general a practice to pay no attention to feeding pigs until they are put up, perhaps in November or December, when, with a little pains, they might be as fat, and weigh nearly as much, at the time they begin to feed, as at the period when they are fed, which may be about four or five weeks after they are put up. For pork, they are usually fattened from six to nine months old; for bacon and hams, from nine months to a year and a half. Pigs are subject to inflammatory and eruptive diseases, both of which require bleeding, purgatives, and cool air in an open field. The most easy way of bleeding pigs is by cutting off the tail, or part of the ear. Purgative powder for pigs, jalap one drachm. Should this be found insufficient, eleven or twelve grains of scamony may