9 SOUPS. salt, and whole black pepper, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of lemon thyme, one of winter savory, four quarts of water, a slice of ham, and four pounds of lean beef, two carrots, and four onions cut down; let it boil till it be reduced to three quarts; separate the hare, and strain the soup over it, and add a pint of port wine; boil it up before serving. FRENCH HARE SOUP. Skin and wash perfectly clean two young hares ; cut them into small pieces, and put them into a stew-pan, with two or three glasses of port wine, two onions stuck with two cloves each, a bunch of parsley, a bay leaf, of thyme, sweet basil, and marjoram, two sprigs each, and a few blades of mace ; let the whole simmer upon a stove for an hour. Add as much boiling broth as will entirely cover the meat ; simmer till it be soft enough to pulp through a sieve, then strain it, and soak the crumb of a twopenny loaf in the strained liquor ; separate the bones from the meat, pound the meat in a mortar, and rub it along with the liquor through a sieve ; season with pepper and salt, and heat the soup tho- roughly, but do not let it boil. Forcemeat balls, made of the hare, may be added to this soup. JUGGED HARE. In five quarts of water, put a pound of scrag of mutton, one of gravy beef, one of a shank of veal, and a slice of ham, all cut small; two turnips, two carrots, three onions chopped, a little mace, salt, and pepper ; stew these ingre- dients for three or four hours, and strain the soup. The next day cut a hare in small pieces, season it with pepper, salt, half a grated nutmeg, and the peel of a small lemon; put it into a stone jar, and fill it up with the prepared soup; put a bung in the jar, tie a bladder and a bit of linen over, and set it in a pot of cold water; as it wastes, fill it up with more boiling water, and let it boil three hours. When cold, take off the fat and pick out the lemon peel. This quantity will make two tureens full, and when to be used is thickened with a table-spoonful of flour, kneaded with a small bit of butter, and half a pint of port wine to each dish. It will keep perfectly good for a fortnight. VENISON SOUP. Boil down in five quarts of water two pounds of a shank of veal, or a fowl, and five pounds of the breast of venison cut small; two or three onions chopped, some whole white