PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 255 mon, and an ounce of butter; roll it out with a little flour, cut them the size of a wine glass, and fry them in boiling clarified dripping. Serve with sifted loaf sugar over them. ORANGE FRITTERS. Beat together half a pint of cream, two beaten eggs, four spoonfuls of flour, and one of brandy. Pare off the peel very thin; cut the orange into slices, or into quarters, and fry them in the batter. Serve in a napkin, with sifted loaf sugar over them. FRIED TOASTS. Cut the crumb of a twopenny loaf into round or oblong pieces, nearly an inch thick, and soak them for four or five liours in a pint of cream, mixed with three well-beaten eggs, half a pint of white wine, a little grated nutmeg, and sweet- ened with pounded loaf sugar. Fry them in butter till of a light brown colour, and serve with wine and sugar sauce. BONNETS. Boil in half a pint of water, for ten minutes, a bit of cin- namon, and of lemon-peel; strain, and mix it with three table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it over the fire for two or tliree minutes ; add a bit of butter the size of a walnut; when cold, mix in the beaten yolks of two eggs, a little salt and pepper; beat it well, drop a dessert-spoonful of the mixture into boiling lard, then drain them upon the back of a sieve, and when served, throw over pounded loaf sugar. Instead of the salt and pepper, a little preserve may be dropped upon each, before the sugar is thrown over. PUFFS. Put into a sauce-pan a pint of milk'; boil it slowly, and stir in flour till it be very thick, like paste ; when cold, mix with it six well-beaten eggs, a table-spoonful of sugar, half a nutmeg, and the peel of a small lemon grated, and a table- spoonful of brandy ; beat it well together for fifteen minutes, and when quite light, drop it from a dessert-spoon into a pan of boiling clarified suet or lard. Serve with pounded loaf sugar strewed over them. TUNBRIDGE PUFFS. Put into a nicely-tinned sauce-pan a pint of milk, and when it boils, stir into it as much flour as will make it a thick batter; add three well-beaten eggs, and two or three drops