PORK. 126 the top ; press it down hard, place a small plate upon it, put on that a heavy weight, which must not be taken off till it be perfectly cold. Boil up part of the liquor with some vinegar and salt, and keep the head in this pickle. It may be served for breakfast or luncheon, and is eaten with vinegar and mustard. TO IVEAKE SAUSAGES. Take a pound of the inward fat of the pig, and half a pound of lean pork; pick both clean from skin and sinews, mince them very finely, grate a large nutmeg, take its weight of pounded mace and cloves, the largest proportion mace, the weight of all of black pepper, and twice the weight of the spices of salt; chop finely a few sage leaves and a little lemon thyme; mix all well together with two large table- spoonfuls of grated bread and the yolk of an egg beaten. It may be put into skins, or packed into a jar and tied closely with bladder. When to be used, moisten it with the yolk of an egg beaten, make it up in the form of sausages, flour them, and fry them in butter. ANOTHER WAY TO IVEAKE SAUSAGES. Chop together two pounds of lean pork, and one and a lialf of the inward fat of the pig, the crumb of a penny loaf cut into slices and soaked in cold water; season with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, lemon thyme, and a little sage. ^lix all the in- gredients well, and half fill the skins ; boil them half an hour SPREADBURT'S SAUSAGES Cut from the leg or griskin one pound of nice lean pork, free from sinews and skin ; mince it very finely ; mince one pound of the best beef suet, mix it with the pork, and pound it as finely as possible in a marble mortar; add two large table-spoonfuls of stale bread rubbed through a sieve, also a good deal of black pepper, salt, and a little finely-chopped sage ; mix all together with the yolks of two eggs beaten up. It will keep for some time, if put into an earthen jar and pressed closely down. When it is to be used, make it into rolls, as thick as common sausages, and three or four inches long; dust them with a little flour ; have ready a frying-pan made very hot, and fry them without any thing but their own fat, till they are done quite through, taking care not to make them too dry. By breaking one of them, the cook will know whether they are sufficiently done. They may be fried in lard or fresh beef dripping.