340 PRESERVES. it closely with a bladder, and put it into a pot of cold water; let it boil for three or four hours ; add more boiling water as it wastes. Strain the juice through a sieve, and to each pint allow sixteen ounces of pounded loaf sugar; boil and stir it over a clear fire till it will jelly, which may be in three quar- ters of an hour ; pour it into shapes, small saucers, or flat plates, to dry. Keep it in a box, with sheets of white paper between each layer. Apricot cheese may be made in this way. TO PRESERVE SIBERIAN CRABS. Boil, in half a pint of water, a little cinnamon, sliced gin- ger, and a few cloves, till the flavour be extracted; strain, and boil it with one pound of pounded loaf sugar ; skim and boil it ten minutes ; let it stand till cold, and tlien add a pint of fine Siberian crabs, which make scalding hot in the sirup ; take them off the fire till nearly cold ; heat them in the same manner three times. If the under ones look clear, take them out carefully, and put them into a jar, and let the rest boil till quite clear. TO PRESERVE JARGONELLE PEARS. Gather pears with stalks before they are quite ripe ; allow equal quantities of fine loaf sugar and of fruit. Pare the pears as thinly as possible, keeping on the stalks ; cut out the black top carefully; as they are peeled, put them into cold water. Put cabbage leaves into the bottom of a preser- ving-pan ; lay in the pears, cover them with cold water, and one or two cabbage leaves upon the top; boil them thirty minutes, and lay them upon a dish. To six pounds of sugar allow a quart of water; boil and skim it, then add one ounce of white ginger, previously soaked in hot water, and scraped clean, and the juice and thinly-pared rind of two lemons. Boil the sirup ten minutes; put in the pears, and let them boil twenty minutes; take them out, put them into a bowl or deep dish; boil the sirup eight minutes, and, when cold, pour it over the pears; cover them with paper ; in four days pour off the sirup, boil it eight minutes, and pour it over the pears when cold. In four days repeat this process, and do it a third time; then stick a clove into each pear, where the black top was cut out. Put them into jars, divide the gin- ger and lemon-peel, and pour on the sirup when cold. PEACH JAIVI. Gather the peaches when quite ripe ; peel, and stone