415 THE DAIRY. ANOTHER METHOD OF PREPARING BUTTER. Mix one part of saltpetre, one of common salt, and two of sugar. This, thoroughly wrought into the butter, will keep it for a very long time, and communicates to it no salt nor disagreeable taste. SCOTCH METHOD OF SAI.TING BUTTER. Wash the butter thoroughly in cold water, pressing it strongly and frequently with the hands or broad pieces of wood, and changing the water till it comes off clear; then spread it out in thin layers, sprinkle it with salt, in the pro- portion of one ounce to every three pounds of butter, and work it well. In this manner each churning is prepared, till the quantity required to fill the kit is obtained. Make a pickle of salt and water strong enough to bear an egg, and boil it with two ounces of loaf sugar. Take each making separately, press all the watery brine from it, and work it in a little of the prepared pickle ; if it should not come off clear, repeat the washing in fresh pickle. The kit having been well scoured, rubbed with dry salt, and rinsed out with a little of the pickle, pack into it separately each making of butter to within two inches of the top ; put some pickle on it, and a clean linen rag; the head of the vessel is then put on, and should always be kept close upon it. METHOD OF PRESERVING BUTTER WITH HONEY. The butter being cleaned from the milk, it is put into jars, and melted on a stove, or in a water bath on the fire; just before it boils, it is put in a cool place to settle, and must never be stirred. When a little stiff, the froth is taken off the top, and the dregs removed ; it is then worked up with honey, in the proportion of an ounce to each pound of butter. Pre- served in this way, and potted, it will keep as long as salted butter ; will be found more suitable for the table when to be eaten with sweetmeats, and, in many respects, better adapted for kitchen use. TO MAKE SALT BUTTER FRESH. Put four pounds of salt butter into a churn with four quarts of new milk, and a little arnatto ; churn them together, and in about an hour take out the butter, and treat it exactly as fresh butter, washing it in water, and adding the customary quantity of salt.