BEEF. 76 P1CKX.ED TONGUE GZJI.ZED AND BIGARREE. Boil a large tongue till it be tender ; skin and glaze it, and serve it with mashed turnips on one side, and mashed carrots, or carrots and spinach, on the other. BEEF TONGUE TO ROAST. Pot it to stew with some roots ; a laurel leaf, some basil, onion, a bunch of cibol, parsley and thyme, pepper, salt, and a clove, and gravy sufficient to moisten the meat; when it has stewed slowly for three hours, take off the skin and lard it delicately ; then roast it on a spit, and serve under it clear gravy, to which a little vinegar is added. ANOTHER WAY TO ROAST A BEEF TONGUE. Wash it well, and soak it for two hours; sprinkle salt over it, and drain it in a cullender for two hours ; then boil it slowly for two hours, take off the skin, roast it, and baste with but- ter. Serve with brown gravy and currant jelly sauce. TONGUE IN A SHAPE. Cut off the root of a pickled tongue, soak it, roll it tightly with the tip inwards ; put it into a mould, the top of which must be placed in, and pressed down with a w'eight; boil it six or seven hours, and let it remain in the mould till cold. Garnish with parsley. BEEF A EA MODE. Take the bone out of a small round of fine ox beef; cut some fat bacon in long strips, dip them into common and shalot vinegar mixed, and roll them in the following season- ing :— Grated nutmeg, black and Jamaica pepper, one or two cloves, and some salt, parsley, chives, lemon thyme, knotted marjoram, and savory, shred quite small. Lard the beef very thickly, bind it firmly with tape, and rub the outside with the seasoning. Put it into a sauce-pan, with the rind of a lemon, four large onions, the red part of three or four I carrots, and tw^o turnips cut into dice, and a tea-cupful of i strong ale and one of vinegar; let it stew for six or eight hours, turning it tw'o or three times. Half an hour before serving, take out the beef and vegetables, skim off the fat, strain the sauce, and thicken it with a little flour and water mixed smooth ; add a tea-cupful of port wine return it all into the pot. and let it boil.