CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 317 into a light dough ; cover it over for an hour; make it into cakes, and bake them upon tins in a moderate oven. ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE CAKES FOR BREAKFAST OR TEA. Dissolve, in half a pint of warm vvater, one ounce of fresh butter, mix it with two pounds of dried and sifted flour, and stir in lightly two large spoonfuls of fine fresh yeast; cover it with a cloth, and let it stand to rise; then make it up into rolls, place them upon floured tins, let them again stand to rise, and bake them in a quick oven. SHORT CAKES. Dissolve half a pound of fresh butter in as much milk as will make a pound and a half of flour into a paste, roll it out about a quarter of an inch thick, and cut it into large round cakes. Do them in a frying-pan, and serve them hot. They are eaten with butter. PARKIN OR LEEDS GINGERBREAD. Sift four pounds of oatmeal, and mix with it four pounds of treacle, half a pound of brown sugar, the same quantity of melted butter, and three quarters of an ounce of pow- dered ginger. Work it all well together, let it remain for twenty-four hours, and then make it into cakes. PARLIAMENT CAKES. Put into a sauce-pan two pounds of treacle, and when it boils, add a quarter of a pound of butter, and pour it upon two pounds of flour ; add a little alum, and a bit of pearl ash about the size of a nut, and an ounce of ginger. Work it well with the hand till quite smooth ; let it stand a day and a night, then roll it out very thin, and cut it into oblong cakes. OATMEAL CAKES. One only should be made at a time, as the mixture dries quickly. Put two or three handfuls of meal into a bowl, and moisten it with water merely sufficient to form it into a cake ; knead it out round and round with the hands upon the paste- board, strewing meal under and over it; it may be made as thin as a wafer, or thicker, according to taste, and put it on a hot iron plate, called a girdle. Bake it till it be a little brown on the under side, then take it off, and toast that side before the fire, which was uppermost on the girdle. The toaster is such as i.s commonly used for heating smoothing