SOUPS. 24 SOUP LORRAIN. Boil in four quarts of water, till reduced to three, a knuckle of veal, one pound of lean beef, and one pound of mutton, a carrot, a turnip, a bunch of parsley, and a little lemon thyme, some salt and white pepper; then strain the liquor ; pound very finely in a marble mortar all the white meat of a large roasted fowl, with a quarter of a pound of blanched almonds, and the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs ; boil in milk the crumb of a French roll, and pound it with the other ingredients, and stir it all well into the soup; let it boil gently for ten minutes before serving. VERMICELLI SOUP. The day before it is required, make four quarts of good stock, and boil in it one carrot, one turnip, four onions, one or two parsley roots, three blades of mace, salt, and some white pepper ; strain it, and before using, take off all the fat; boil in some of the liquor the crumb of three French rolls till soft enough to mash smooth ; boil the soup and stir well in the mashed rolls ; boil it for a quarter of an hour, and before serving, add the yolks of two eggs beaten with three table-spoonfuls of cream ; boil in water two or three ounces of vermicelli for fifteen or twenty minutes ; strain and put it into the tureen, and pour the soup upon it. VERMICELLI A LA REINE. Blanch about a quarter of a pound of vermicelli in boiling water; drain it, and throw it into some rich well-seasoned stock; when tender, take it out of the soup, and put it inta the tureen ; thicken the soup with eight well-beaten egcs, mixed with half a pint of cream, and pour it, when quite hot, upon the vermicelli. N MACARONI SOUP. Make a good stock with a knuckle of veal, a little sweet m.'ujoram, parsley, some salt, white pepper, three blades of mace, and two or three onions ; strain and boil it. Break in small bits a quarter of a pound of macaroni, and gently simmer it in milk and water till it be swelled and is tender*; strain it, and add it to the soJip, which thicken with two table-spoonfuls of flour, mixed in half a pint of cream, and stirred gradually into the soup. Boil it a few minutes before serving.