PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 258 fuls of flour, three well-beaten eggs, and two ounces of melt- ed butter; add a little salt, and grated nutmeg. Put a bit of butter into the frying-pan, make it hot, and pour it out; wipe the pan quite dry; put in a small bit of butter to fry the first pancake, and fry the rest without adding more but- ter. Serve with pounded sugar over them. A THICK PANCAKE. Beat separately the yolks and whites of two eggs ; mix with the yolks a table-spoonful and a half of flour, a little sugar and white wine, half a pint of cream or good milk ; add the whites, and fry it in a broad sauce-pan, with butter or clarified suet; brown the upper side before the fire; warm any sort of preserve, spread it upon one half, and turn the other over it, and strew upon it pounded loaf sugar. INDIAN PANCAKE. Add to three well-beaten eggs a pint of new milk, three table-spoonfuls of boiled rice, some sugar, and a little pounded cinnamon ; mix it all well together, and fry it in butter; brown the upper side for a minute before the fire; serve it, cut into four, with pounded sugar strewed over it. APPLES IN PANCAKES. Cut some ap|)les very small; stew them with a little white wine, grated lemon-peel, pounded cinnamon, and brown sugar ; mash them, and spread it over pancakes ; roll them up, and .oerve with sifted loaf sugar over them. LEIPZEGER PANCAKES. Beat well the whites of four, and the yolks of eight fresh eggs, and add, by degrees, half a pound of pounded loaf su- gar, a pint and a half of sweet cream just warmed, half a pound of clarified fresh butter, two table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast, and a wine-glass full of spirits of wine ; then mix in as much sifted flour as will make it into a thick batter ; let it rise for half an hour; roll it out thin ; cut it into rounds or oblong pieces, and lay on them jam or marmalade ; double them, and let them stand again to rise, and fry them in boiling fresh lard or butter. ABERDEEN CRULLA. Beat to a cream a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and mix with it the same quantity of pounded and sifted loat sugar, and four w ell-beaten eggs; add flour till thick enough to