VEAL. 112 ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE DRESSED CA1J”S BEAD. Scald and clean a calf’s head very nicely, and with a sharp knife cut all the meat entire from the bone; cut out the tongue, and carefully take out the brains; lay it all in cold water for two or three hours. Mince very small two pounds of lean veal, and one pound of beef suet, with the grated crumb of a penny loaf, some sweet herbs, grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; mix them well to- gether, and bind it with the yolks of four eggs beaten up ; reserve as much of the forcemeat as will make twenty small balls; wash the head clean, wipe it dry, and put the force- meat into the inside ; close it, and tie it firmly with tape; put it into a stew-pan with two quarts of gravy, half a pint of white wine, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; cover it closely, and let it stew gently. Boil the tongue, cut it into thin slices, mince the brains with a little parsley, and a table- spoonful of flour ; add some pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg; beat two eggs and mix with tlie brains, drop it with a spoon in small cakes into a pan of boiling dripping, and fry them of a light brown colour. Fry the forcemeat balls, and drain them, with the cakes, upon the back of a sieve before the fire ; when the head has stewed till it be sufficiently tender, put it into a dish and take off the tape ; strain the gravy, and thicken it with a table-spoonful of flour of rice, and a little bit of butter ; if not well-seasoned, add more salt and pepper ; put in the tongue, make it all hot, and pour it over the head. Garnish with the brain-cakes, force- meat balls, and cut lemon. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE DRESSED CALF'S HEAD. Scald and clean the head ; cut off the meat into thin small pieces ; soak some bits of the fiit for half an hour in spinach juice ; strain, and add them with the meat to three pints of rich veal or mutton stock, a pint of Madeira, an ounce of butter mixed with flour, a large onion finely minced, the juice of two lemons, the peel of one cut like straws, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Stew all together for an hour ; pick out the herbs ; add some chopped oysters, and put it into a deep dish, with puff-paste round the edge ; bake it till of a light brown, and garnish the top with hard-boiled yolks of eggs and forcemeat balls. The oysters may be omitted. TO ROAST A CALF'S HEAD. Wash and clean it well; parboil it, take out the bones.