SOUPS. lumps about the pan. Put it into saucers about half full, and when cold lay the cakes upon flannel to dry before the fire or in the sun; keep them in a tin box, with white paper between each cake. About an ounce weight will make a pint of rich soup; pour boiling water upon it with a little salt, and stir it till it dissolves. It also answers well for gravies and all brown sauces. OX-TAZL SOUP. Steep in cold v/ater, for some hours, two ox tails cut into bits; put them into a sauce-pan with four quarts of cold water, a bunch of sweet herbs, a dessert-spoonful of whole black pepper, three onions, two carrots, and one turnip; cover it closely, and when it boils skim it, and let it simmer for three hours ; carefully take off all the fat; add a table- spoonful of vinegar and half a pint of port wine. Take out the vegetables and herbs before serving. ANOTHER OX-TAIX. SOUP. Cut the ox tails into bits, steep them in cold water, and boil them in three or four quarts of well-seasoned rich brown stock; add of carrots, turnips, and onions, when cut into dice, about a pint and a half; and simmer it all together till quite tender. RABBIT SOUP. Cut one or two rabbits into joints ; lay them for an hour in cold water; dry and fry them in butter till about half done, with four or five onions, and a middling-sized head of celery cut small; add to this three quarts of cold water, a pound of split peas, some pepper and salt; let it stew gently for four or five hours, then strain and serve it. MEG MERRIUES’ SOUP. Cut a hare in pieces, and save the blood ; reserve some bits of the meat and the liver to make forcemeat balls of, and put the rest of the hare into a sauce-pan with six quarts of water; season with four onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, and salt; stew it gently for two hours; in another sauce-pan put the blood and the water the hare was washed in, stir in two heaped table-spoonfuls of rice flour, to make it the consistence of gruel, and when it boils mix it with the stock. Take two partridges, or moor-fowl, if they are fresh, or part of both ; skin and cut each of them into four pieces, brown them in butter in a frying-pan, and add them to the