13G POULTRY. FORCED GOOSE, OR DUCK. Cut the goose open at the back, and take out the bones carefully, excepting those of the legs and wings. Take out all the meat from the body, leaving the skin perfectly whole. With the meat, pound three quarters of a pound of lean and tender beef, add three handfuls of grated bread, four well- beaten eggs, and half a pint of rich sweet cream ; season with black and Jamaica pepper, mace, and salt; mix it all well together; let it stand for half an hour, and then put it into the goose, which sew up, and make it of as natural a form as possible; but take care that it be not too much stuffed. Boil it for half an hour in some good stock, and then put it into a flat tin baking-pan, with some fresh butter over and under it. Bake it in an oven another half hour, and serve it with the following sauce: — Brown a tabic-spoonful of butter with flour, add about a pint of the stock in which the goose has been boiled, three grated onions, two table-spoon- fuls of capers cut fine, a little lemon pickle, and a few small pickled onions ; boil it about a quarter of an hour, and, just before pouring it over the goose, stir in gradually half a pint of rich cream. When this dish is to be served cold, the fat being carefully removed from the goose, it may be ornamented or covered with cold jelly made as follows : — Boil for five hours, in four quarts of water, the bones of the goose, with three nicely- cleaned calf’s feet; strain it, and when cold, take off cill the fat, and boil the jelly with some whole black and Jamaica pepper, ginger, and salt; add two ounces of dissolved isinglas, the juice of two lemons, and the beaten whites of three or four eggs; stir it while it is upon the fire, and allow it to boil about ten minutes; then run it through a jelly-bag, and repeat this till it becomes quite clear. TO ROAST PIGEONS. Pick, clean, singe, and wash them well; truss them with the feet on, and put into them some pepper and salt. While roasting, baste them with butter. A little before serving, dust them with flour, and froth them with butter. Roast them for half an hour. Serve them with parsley and butter in the dish, or make a gravy of the giblets, some minced parsley, seasoned with pepper and salt. Thicken with a little flour and butter; pour it with the giblets into the dish, and then put in the pigeons. They may be boiled and served upon dressed spinach.