PORK. 124 of pounded saltpetre. Let it lie another day, then rub in a pound of bay, and a pound of common salt. In two hours, pour over it a pound of treacle, and let it lie for three weeks or a month, according to the size of the ham, turning and rubbing it daily. Let it lie in cold water for four-and-twenty hours, then hang it for a fortnight up a chimney where woo<l or turf is burnt. ANOTHER WAY TO CURE HAMS. To each ham allow the following ingredients, finely poun- ded : — One pound of bay, and half a pound of common salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and one ounce of black pepper. Rub the mixture well into the ham, turning it daily for four days, and then pour over it one pound and a half of treacle, and let it lie for four weeks, turning it daily, and basting it fre- quently with the pickle. Lay it for four-and-twenty hours into cold water. Smoke it for a fortnight, and bury it with malt dust in a box It ought to be kept three or four months be- fore it is used, and should not be soaked before boiling. ANOTHER WAY TO CURE HAMS. For two hams, weighing sixteen pounds each, allow one pound and a quarter of brown sugar, three ounces of pow- dered saltpetre, one pound of bay salt, the same of common salt, two or three heads of garlic pounded. Mix all together, and rub it into the hams ; let them lie for three or four weeks, turning and rubbing them daily, when they may be dried in the kitchen, or smoked for a fortnight. ANOTHER WAY TO CURE HAMS Pound two ounces of saltpetre, one ounce of black pepper, and one pound of bay salt. Rub it over the ham, and let it lie four days, turning it daily; then pour over it a pound and a half of treacle. Baste it daily for a month, then put it in cold water for twenty-four hours. Wipe it dry, and sew it in a piece of old linen. Hang it up in a chimney where wood is hurnt. ANOTHER WAY TO CURE HAMS. For two hams, hoil, in one quart of strong beer, one poJind and a quarter of common salt, three ounces of salt- ])etre, one pound and a quarter of coarse brown sugar. When it is cold, pour it over the hams, rub them well daily, basting them more frequently. Let tliem remain for three weeks, and then smoke them.