PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 229 f)int of good milk, and mix with it three well-beaten eggs, vith two table-spoonfuls of rose water ; pour it over the bread, and bake it for half an hour. Before serving, nut- meg may be grated over the top. This pudding may be boiled in a shape, for two hours, substituting for the preserved gooseberries a tea-cupful of nicely cleaned currants, and adding a glass of brandy, or any other spirit. ANOTHER WAT TO IVEAKE BREAD PUDDING. Pour a pint of boiling milk over four ounces of bread crumbs, and two of fresh butter ; cover it till cold, and mix with it three well-beaten eggs, a table-spoonful of sugar, and half the peel of a grated lemon, or a little pounded cinna- mon ; bake it in a buttered dish, and serve with a sweet sauce. INDIAN IHCEAL, OR MAIZE, PUDDING. Boil in a quart of good milk a tea-cupful of Indian meal; stir it constantly till thick, sweeten it with treacle or brown sugar, and stir in two well-beaten eggs, and an ounce of but- ter ; bake it in a Dutch oven for half an hour. Half a grated nutmeg may be added, and it may be made without eggs. A boiled Indian meal pudding is made in tiie same way, and after being mixed with or without eggs in it, it is tied in a buttered and floured cloth, and boiled for two hours. It is eaten with cold or melted butter. CHEESE PUDDING. Beat the yolks of ten, and the wliites of two eggs, till quite light; mix well with them a pound of good cheese grated, then add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter beaten to a cream, and half a pint of cream ; bake it half an hour in a dish rubbed over with butter, and lined or not with puff paste. Before serving, grate Parmesan cheese over tlie top. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE CHEESE PUDDING. Grate one pound of mild Cheshire cheese ; lieat well four e.ggs ; oil one ounce of butter : mix these ingredients together with one gill of cream, and two table-spoonfuls of grated and sifted bread, and bake it in a dish or tin lined with puff’paste. ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE CHEESE PUDDING. Grate a quarter of a pound of good cheese; put it into a sauce-pan, with half a pint of new milk, and nearly two ounces of grated bread, and one beaten egg; stir it till the