BEEF. 71 BEEF OLIVES. Cut the beef into long thin steaks ; prepare a forcemeat made of bread crumbs, minced beef-suet, chopped parsley, a little grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; bind it with the yolks of eggs beaten ; put a layer of it over each steak; roll and tie them with thread; fry them lightly in beef dripping ; put them in a stew-pan with some good brown gravy, a glass of white wine, and a little cayenne ; thicken it with a little flour and butter; cover the pan closely, and let them stew gently an hour. Before serving, add a table- spoonful of mushroom catsup ; garnish with cut pickles. DRESSED BEEF STEAKS. Cut thin steaks*, longer than they are broad, off a rump; beat them with a rolling-pin ; season them with pepper, salt, and finely-minced onions ; roll and tie them with thread; cut them even at the ends ; fry them brown with a little butter; make a sauce w'ith a piece of butter browned with flour, some gravy or water, a minced onion, pepper, and salt; boil it, and add the steaks, and let them stew an hour. Before serving, add some mushroom catsup, and take off the threads BEEF STEAKS WITH POTATOES. Cut some thin slices off a rump of beef; beat and season them with a little pepper and salt; dip them into a little melted butter, that the gravy may not drop out whilst they are broiling. When done, serve them with the following mixture laid underneath: — Some finely-chopped parsley, a little butter, pepper, salt, and lemon ; and put, all round the dish, potatoes fried of a fine brown colour. BEEF BALLS. Mince very finely a piece of tender beef, fat and lean ; mince an onion, with some boiled parsley ; add grated bread crumbs, and season with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and lemon-peel; mix all together, and moisten it with a beaten egg; roll it into balls; flour and fry them in boiling fresh dripping. Serve them with fried bread crumbs, or with a thickened brown gravy. MINCED COLLOPS. Cut two pounds of lean tender beef into thin slices it is best taken from off the rump, or round ; mince it very finely; brown two ounces of butter in a frying-pan, dredging it with