KITCHEN GARDEN. 436 The plants are earthed up in November, as they advance ; but, in earthing up beans, it is necessary to be very careful tliat the earth do not fall on the centre of the plant. In severe frost some haum or fern is laid over them. In March and April, as they begin to show flower, they are kept close to the fence by means of packthread ; and, in order to for- ward the production of pods, when the lower blossoms begin to fade, the tops of the stems are pinched off. In February and March, full crops of the late and large beans, as the Windsor, Sandwich, and long podded, are planted in drills two inches deep, allowing two and a half or three feet be- tween the rows. KIDNEY, OR FRENCH BEAN. The dwarf kidney-bean requires no support from sticks, but, as it is tender, must be sown before the middle or end of April ; it may then be sown in drills, from two to three feet asunder, and about three inches separate in the lines, covering with something less than two inches of soil. As the plants advance, they are hoed and cleared of weeds, a little earth being, at the same time, drawn to the stems. The most esteemed kinds are, the speckled dwarf, early black or negro, and early white dwarf. The scarlet runner, being more tender than the dwarf kinds, must not be sown till about the middle of May; and, as tall slight stakes must be placed for it to climb upon, the distance between the rows i is generally four feet. The kidney-beans like a good, light, rich soil. SPINACH. There are two kinds of spinach ; the prickly-seeded, for winter, and the smooth-seeded, for summer use. The winter crop is sown, either in drills, or broadcast, in the beginning of August, when rains may be expected. A light, dry, but rich soil, in a sheltered situation, is desirable. When the plants show four leaves, the ground around them is hoed, and the spinach moderately thinned; the hoeing is repeated as the weeds grow. In February, when a few dry days may occur, the surface of the ground is stirred, the plants cleaned, and again thinned out. With this mode of treatment, and with due attention, the winter spinach should aflbrd suc- cessive gatherings from November, and, in mild weather, throughout the winter, till April or May. The first sowing of the summer spinach is made in a sheltered border in Ja- nuary, If sown broadcast, it is first thinned out to three