SOUPS. ANOTHER CALF'S-HEAD SOUP. Cut half a pound of lean veal in small pieces, fry it of a light brown in butter; cut off the meat in small pieces from the bones of a cow-heel that has been boiled tender, put it into a stew-pan with the veal and two quarts of beef gravy, one anchovy, and a bit of butter, some cayenne, a blade of mace, and three cloves; stew it slowly an hour, then add a large glass of madeira, or any white wine, the green part of a leek, some parsley, and lemon thyme chopped small, lemon peel shred fine, and the juice of half a lemon. Let it stew very gently an hour and a half. Serve it with forcemeat balls, and the yolks of hard-boiled eggs. BROWN GRAVY SOUP. Take fifteen pounds of a leg or shin of beef, cut off the meat in bits, rub the bottom of the pot with butter, put in the meat, let it brown for nearly an hour, turning it con- stantly ; break the bone, and take out the marrow, which may be kept for a pudding, but it is considered better than butter to brown the meat with; put to the meat fourteen quarts of cold water, and the bones ; when it boils, skim it perfectly clean, and add six good-sized red onions, one carrot cut in three, one head of celery, a good handful of whole black and Jamaica pepper mixed ; lot this boil very gently ten or twelve hours closely covered, if upon a fire, but if done upon a hot plate not to be covered; strain it through a cul- lender, and then through a hair sieve, into a large pan to be kept for use. Return the meat and bones into the pot with three or four quarts of hot water ; let it boil nearly two hours, and strain it off. This makes good stock for gravies, stews, or any made dishes. This gravy soup keeps perfectly good for three or four weeks. When it is to be boiled to send to table, first boil vermicelli, or macaroni, in a little salt and water, till tender ; strain it, and add it to the soup just before serving. This soup is quite pure, and requires no clearing. It is a most convenient thing to have in a house in cold weather, as it is always ready for use; and, served with dry toast to eat with it, makes an acceptable luncheon. The trimmings of meat, giblets, and bones, may be boiled with the beef for this soup. ANOTHER BROWN GRAVY SOUP. Cut down three pounds of gravy-beef, and put it on in