•230 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. cheese be dissolved ; put it into a buttered dish, and brown it in a Dutch oven. Serve it quite hot. EGG PUDDING. Mei.t a quarter of a pound of butter, and when nearly cold, ini.K well with it the following ingredients :—The well- beaten yolks of ten, and the whites of two eggs, half a pint of rich cream, half a pound of good brown sugar, two table- spoonfuls of flour, a grated nutmeg, and a glass of brandy ; hake it with or without a lining of puff paste. A PUDDING. Beat separately the yolks and whites of six eggs ; pound half a pound of loaf sugar, melt half a pound of fresh butter, blanch three ounces of sweet almonds, and pound them with a little rose wafer ; mince four ounces of marmalade : mix all these Ingredients well, and bake it in a dish lined with puff'paste ; turn it out, and serve it upon a napkin. It may be eaten cold. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. Cut thin slices of bread and butter, without the crust; lay some in the bottom of a dish, and then put a layer of well- cleaned currants, or any preserved fruit; then more bread and butter, and so on, till the dish is nearly fllled; mix with a quart of milk four well-beaten eggs, three table-spoonfuls of orange-flower or rose water ; sweeten it well with brown sugar, and pour it over the bread and butter, and let it soak for two or three hours before being baked. It will take nearly an hour. Serve with a sauce, in a sauce-tureen, made with a tea-cupful of currant wine, a table-spoonful of brown sugar, three of water, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut, stirred till boiling hot. JELLY PUDDING. Beat to a light cream ten ounces of fresh butter, then add by degrees the well-beaten yolks of six eggs, and half a pound of loaf sugar pounded ; stir in two or three table-spoonfuls of orange-flower or rose water ; beat to a stiff froth the whites of <i\ eggs, mix them in lightly; bake it five-arid-twenty minutes in a dish lined with puff paste. SAGO PUDDING. Born five table-spoonfuls of sago, well picked and washed, in a quart of water, also half the peel of a lemon and a stick