PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 240 stantly till quite smooth, and then add eight eg:s well beaten, with half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a wine-glass of orange- flower water; take it off the fire, and beat it for a few mi- nutes ; then with a spoon form it into small balls, place them in rows upon a floured tin, and bake them in a moderate oven for a quarter of an hour. Serve them with grated loaf sugar sifted over them. ARROW-ROOT PUDDING. From a quart of new milk take a small tea-cupful, and mix it with two large spoonfuls of awow-root. Boil the rema n- der of the milk, and stir it amongst the arrow-root; add, when nearly cold, the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, with two ounces of pounded loaf sugar, and the same quantity of fresh butter broken into small bits ; season with grated nutmeg. Mix it well together, and bake it in a butter dish fifteen or twenty minutes. SCOTCH PUDDING. The yolks of eight, and the whites of three well-beaten eggs, half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, a quarter of a pound of melted butter, two table-spoonfuls of sifted ground rice, the grated peel and juice of one lemon : mix all together, and bake it in a dish lined with putF paste; turn it out to serve, and strew over the top grated loaf sugar. POTATO-FLOUR PUDDING. Boil some cinnamon, lemon-peel, and sugar, in a quart of milk ; strain, and stir it with three table-spoonfuls of potato flour previously mixed smooth with a little cold milk; stir it till it be nearly cold; add four \vell-beaten eggs, a glass of sweet wine, or two table-spoonfuls of spirits, and a little marmalade. Bake it in a Dutch oven. POTATO FLOUR, OR STARCH Wash some large mealy potatoes ; peel, and throw them into a deep pan of cold water, in which grate them down upon a bread grater; then strain the mass through a hair- sieve ; let it settle for ten or fifteen minutes, pour off the water, put on fresh, stir it up, and again let it settle for half an hour or longer; repeat this until the water be perfectly clear, and the powder blanched of a pure white. Lay a linen cloth upon a riddle, put the flour upon it, and dry it in the sun or before the fire; turn, and stir it frequently; or it may be dried upon large flat dishes. Put it into jars, and tie