PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 224 ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE CURD CHEESE CAKES. With a little rennet, turn two quarts of new milk ; drain off the whey. Rub through a sieve the curd, and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; mix with it half an ounce of sweet and four bitter almonds, blanched and pounded, three ounces of pounded loaf sugar, a little candied citron cut small, the grated peel of half a lemon, three well-beaten eggs, a glass of brandy, and three ounces of currants. Mix them all w^ell together, and bake them in patty-pans lined with paste. POTATO CHEESE CAKES. Boil and peel half a pound of good potatoes, bruise them in a mortar, and when nearly cold, drop in the yolk and white of an egg at intervals, until four have been added, beating the potatoes well all the time ; then add a quarter of a pound of sifted bread crumbs, and put in two more eggs. Beat to a cream six ounces of fresh butter, with the same quantity of pounded loaf sugar ; put it into the mortar, with the grated peel of one lemon, and mix all thoroughly. Line the patty- pans with paste, fill them three parts full, and bake them in a moderate oven. ANOTHER WAY TO IVIAKE POTATO CHEESE CAKES. Pound in a mortar five ounces of potatoes, with four of fresh butter, and the same quantity of pounded loaf sugar, the grated peel and the juice of half a lemon, three well- beaten eggs, and a table-spoonful of brandy ; mix all well together, and bake as before directed. LEMON CHEESE CAKES. Pound in a mortar with rose water half a pound of blanched sweet almonds ; mix them with the grated peel of two lemons, half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, the same quantity of melted butter when nearly cold, and eight well-beaten yolks and four whites of eggs : beat all the ingredients well together, and bake in patty-pans lined with paste. Orange cheese cakes are made in the same manner; or orange marmalade may be used. ALMOND CHEESE CAKES. Blanch and pound, with a little orange-flower water, half a pound of sweet and ten bitter almonds ; beat, with eight yolks and four whites of eggs, three quarters of a pound of pounded loaf sugar ; add one pound of melted butter when