THE DAIRY 408 CHAPTER XXL THE DAIRY. A Dairy-House ought to be well aired, free from damp, and situated so that a proper temperature may be preserved, — from 50“ to 55“ Fahrenheit. A milk dairy requires two apartments; one for the milk, the other for scalding and cleaning the different utensils. To secure a proper degree of heat for common purposes, a vacuity of eight or ten inches, left betwixt the wall and the lath and plaster, will be suffi- cient. The roof should be of thatch, three feet thick at the least, and should project completely over the walls on each side. To afford shade and a beneficial degree of coolness to the whole building, the outer doors may be made to open under a penthouse, or lean-to shed. It would be advanta- geous to have an icehouse attached to the dairy, as a small quantity of ice, placed when necessary in the milk-room, would soon lower the temperature to any degree that might be wanted. If the cold in winter should become too great, a barrel of hot water, close stopped, or a few hot bricks, placed on the floor or table of the milk-room, would readily counteract its effects; a chafing-dish with burning coals should never be used. The utensils required for a dairy of twenty cows, may, in most cases, be provided for £20 or £30. Wood has in general been employed in their con- struction, and is, upon the whole, the most eligible material; lead, brass, and copper, are altogether inadmissible ; the least objectionable of all the metallic milk-dishes are probably those which have been lately invented by Mr. Baird, of the Shotts iron-works in Linlithgowshire. A proper choice of cows is of the greatest importance. Of the black cattle of the island, the short-horned, or Dutch, and the long-horned, or Lancashire, are in general preferred; the first yields the greatest quantity of milk; that of the second is not so abundant, but richer ; the polled, or Gallo- way cows, are excellent milkers, and the Suffolk duns are much esteemed, as are also the Ayrshire cows. For the management of cows, it is of the greatest consequence to keep