PRESERVES. 333 TO PRESERVE STRAWBERRIES. Weigh a large deep dish or milk pan, into which put the finest rose strawberries, gathered when perfectly dry ; then weigh them, and to each pound allow one of fine loaf sugar, which clarify and boil candy high; pour it over the straw- berries ; wash out the preserving pan ; return the fruit and sugar into it, and boil the strawberries for five minutes ; strain them through a large sieve, and boil the sirup for twenty mi- nutes ; then with a silver spoon carefully add the strawberries to it, and, if approved, half a pint of dripped red currant juice, and half a pound of sugar, to each pound of strawberries, and boil all together for ten minutes ; carefully scum it. THE LARGE BATH, OR HAUTBOT STRAWBERRIES, May be preserved with an equal quantity of fine loaf su- gar ; the sugar must be scummed and boiled for half an hour; then, the fruit being added, it is boiled for half an hour or three quarters, and carefully scummed. Or the sugar may be finely pounded, and boiled with the fruit. In this last man- ner, any kind of strawberry may be preserved. ANOTHER WAT TO PRESERVE STRAWBERRIES. Gather the strawberries in the middle of a dry day, taking care that they are quite ripe, sound, and good; the best kinds are the rose, and large scarlet pine; in gathering, pick them carefully from the stalks. Pound fine loaf sugar, and allow equal weight of each ; lay the strawberries into one or two large dishes, and cover them completely over with the sugar. On the following day, put them into a preserving- pan, and place them over the fire till they are heated through ; do the same the next day, and on the third boil them up very fast, allowing them fifteen minutes after they come to boil all over ; take them off the fire, and have ready some aired silver paper to put upon them, to take off the scum, instead of using a silver spoon, which is apt to break them. This preserve may be eaten with cream. The process of boiling may be completed in one day, if begun at an early hour. STRAWBERRY JAM. Allow equal weight of pounded loaf sugar and of the scarlet pine or rose strawberries ; mash them in the preser- ying-pan, and mix the sugar well with it; stir, scum, and boil it for twenty minutes.