SOUPS. MUIXAGATAWNY SOUP. Put half a pound of fresh butter, with six large onions sliced, three cloves of garlic, some chopped parsley, and sweet marjoram, into a stew-pan ; let it stew over a slow fire till of a light brown colour ; cut in small pieces five pounds of lean beef, and let that stew till the gravy be extracted, and then put in three quarts of boiling water, and half a pound of Scotch barley, and let it simmer four hours very slowly ; mix four table-spoonfuls of currie-powder with cold water, and add it to the stock; take out the beef, and rub the barley through a sieve, to thicken the soup. Cut a fowl in joints, skin it, and put it in a stew-pan with a piece of butter, and let it stew till quite tender; the stew-pan must be kept closely covered: this to be added to the soup, the last thing, with a pint of boiling milk, and the juice of two lemons. Boiled rice must always be served with this soup. ANOTHER MULLAGATAWNY SOUP. Make a strong stock of the bones of roasted beef, mutton, and fowl; while it is preparing, put into a stew-pan, with six ounces of butter, three quarts of sliced turnip, two quarts of carrots, and eight large onions also sliced; let them stew upon the stove till tender ; then add three quarts of the prepared stock, a large slice of the crumb of bread, and two table-spoonfuls of currie-powder; let them steAV four or five hours ; strain it through a tammy cloth, with two wooden spoons, taking care that no bones be left amongst the vege- tables ; if too thick to go through, add more stock. Then cut a fowl in pieces, fry it in a frying-pan with butter, and add it to the soup ; after it has boiled a little, draw it to the side of the stove, and let it simmer, that the grease may be taken off. A little good beef stock, in addition to that made of the bones, will be an improvement. It is sometimes thickened with whole or ground rice, instead of bread, and ought to be made upon a stove. ANOTHER MULLAGATAWNY SOOT. Cut off the meat of four pounds of a breast of veal into bits about two inches by one. Boil the bones and trimmings in three quarts of water for two hours, with some w'hole pepper, and a little allspice; skim it well, strain, and add the veal previously fried in butter, with four onions minced; boil it for half an hour. Mix with cold water two table- spoonfuls of currie-powder, the same of arrowroot, and a