CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 308 nine well-beaten eggs, two pounds of well-cleaned currants, one pound and a half of good brown sugar, the grated peel of a lemon, and one nutmeg; a glass of brandy must be stirred in just before it be put into a buttered tin. Bake it for two hours or more. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE A COMMON CAKE. Rub into one pound of flour a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; mix, with two well-beaten eggs, and a table-spoonful of fresh yeast, as much warm milk as will make the flour into a very thick batter. Let this remain near the fire, covered with a cloth, for an hour; then mix into it six ounces of good brown sugar, and nine ounces of well-cleaned and dried cur- rants ; let it stand again for half an hour, and bake it in a buttered tin for an hour. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE A COMMON CAKE. With the hand, beat three quarters of a pound of fresh butter to a cream, and mix it with as much dough as would make a half-quartern loaf; add eight ounces of finely-pound- ed loaf, or good brown sugar, and the same quantity of well- cleaned currants, a little pounded cinnamon, or grated nut- meg ; beat all well together, and bake it in a buttered tin. FRENCH CAKE. Twelve eggs, the yolks and whites beaten well and sepa- rately, one pound of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, the grated peel of a large lemon, half a pound of sifted and dried flour, the same weight of sifted and dried ground rice, four ounces of sweet, and one of bitter almonds, pounded in a mortar toge- ther, with a table-spoonful of orange-flower water. Mix all these ingredients gradually, and beat them well. Paper the pan, and bake the cake for one hour. BOURBON CAKE. Beat well and separately the yolks of ten, and the whites of five eggs ; grate and sift a pound of loaf sugar ; grate the peel of two bitter oranges; blanch and pound, with a little rose water, half a pound of sweet almonds; whisk all these ingredients together for half an hour ; and lastly, mix in half a pound of dried and sifted flour ; lay it about three inches deep into a hoop, and bake it in a moderate oven for one hour and a quarter. Immediately upon taking the cake out of the frame, ice it over the toj) and sides.