PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 208 SWEETBREAD AND PAXJVTE PIE. Scald the sweetbreads, and when quite cold, fry them a nice brown; boil the palates tender, skin, and cut them into square pieces. Brovvn a bit of butter with flour, and a pint of good gravy seasoned highly with spice and salt; put in the sweetbreads and palates, and let them stew till nearly ready for eating. Lay them into the pie-dish, and break down in the sauce the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and add it. This pie is better to be prepared the day before it is required- Cover it with a rich puff paste, and when the paste is suffi- ciently baked, the pie may be served. ANOTHER SWEETBREAD PIE. Parboil five or six sweetbreads; cut them into two or three pieces, stew them ten or fifteen minutes in a little white stock, with some chopped shalot, a bit of butter rolled in flour, some salt, with white pepper, and a good many mush- rooms. Put them into a pie-dish, with some asparagus tops, forcemeat balls, and hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and slices of fat bacon on the top ; cover it, and bake it till the paste be done enough : or it may be put into a vol-au-vent, and served upon a napkin ; or baked in a pate. FRENCH PIE. Mince some cold roast veal together with a little ham ; season it highly with pepper, salt, mace, and lemon-peel; add a large table-spoonful of mushroom catsup, and a quarter of a hundred of oysters, with their liquor, and three or four table-spoonfuls of rich gravy. Line a dish with puff paste, put in the ingredients, cover the pie, and let it remain in the oven only long enough to bake the paste. BEEF STEAK PIE. Cut the steaks off a rump, or any nice piece of beef, fat and lean together, about half an inch thick ; beat them a little with a rolling-pin ; put over them some pepper, salt, and parboiled onion minced, or grated bread seasoned with pepper, salt, and pickled cucumber minced ; roll them up, and pack them neatly into the dish, or lay the beef in slices; add some spoonfuls of gravy, and a tea-spoonful of vinegar. Cover the pie with a puff paste, and bake it for an hour. It is a common but mistaken opinion, that it is necessary to put stock or water into meat pies. Beef, mutton, veal, and pork, if not previously dressed, will be found to yield a