CREAMS. CUSTARDS, &c. 284 carmine or lake. When this kind of jelly is to be made with cherries, the fruit should be boiled a few minutes in clarified sugar, and when cold, the juice of one or two lemons may be added with the isinglass. A little lemon juice may be added to any of the other jel- lies, in proportion to the acidity of the fruit. They may be iced by covering and surrounding the mould with ice, without any salt. FLOATING ISLAND. Boil, with a pint of milk, a bit of cinnamon, and half the peel of a lemon ; when almost cold, strain it, and mix with it the beaten white of one, and the yolks of thre» eggs; stir it over the fire till thick, pour it into a dish, and stir it now' and then till cold. Whisk the whites of two eggs, and half a pint of Guava quince or red currant jelly, till it be a very stiif froth, and heap it upon the custard. ANOTHER WAV TO MAKE FLOATING ISLAND. Three spoonfuls of raspberry or currant jelly, and the whites of as many eggs ; beat them together one way till the spoon will stand erect; pile it upon cream beaten up with wine and sugar, and a little grated lemon peel; or upon apple jelly. T7N TURBAN DE RIS, ET DE POMMES. Boil, in milk, some fine whole rice, with half the peel of a lemon. Pare and core some apples, and cut them into quarters ; stew them in a sirup of sugar and w'ater, with a little orange marmalade, taking care to keep them quite whole. Make a rich custard as follows : — Sweeten a quart of thin cream or good milk, and boil it with lemon-peel and cinna- mon ; strain the cream, and let it cool. Beat up the yolks of ten eggs, and mix the cream gradually with them ; put it over a slow fire, and keep stirring constantly till it is pretty thick ; pour it into a dish, and stir in a table-spoonful of rose water or brandy, but both will enrich the flavour ; keep stir- ring it occasionally till nearly cold. Place the rice round a dish in the form of a wall, put the custard into it, and build the apples all round the outside, so as to hide the rice. It may be sent to table quite cold, or in some degree warm. ORANGE FOOLi Mix the strained juice of three Seville oranges witli six well-beaten eggs, a pint of cream, some grated nutmeg and