FISH. 37 TO STEW SALMON. Clean and scrape the fish; cut it into slices, and stew it in a rich white gravy. A little before serving, add two table- spoonfuls of soy, one of essence of anchovy, a little salt, some chopped parsley and chives. KIPPER, OR DRIED SALMON. Cut the fish up the back, and take out the bone; wipe it very clean with a cloth ; score it, and put a handful of salt on each side, and let it lie for three days ; then hang it up to dry, and it will be fit for use in two days, and eats well with a little pepper put over it, and broiled. TO SALT A SALMON Cut the fish up the back, and cut put the bone; wipe it clean, and sprinkle it with salt; let it lie a night to drain off the liquor; wipe it dry; rub on it two or three ounces of pounded saltpetre ; cut it into pieces ; pack it close in a pot, with a thick layer of salt between each layer of fish. If the brine does not rise in a few days, boil a strong one, and pour it, when cold, upon the salmon, which must always be covered with it. The bone, or chine of salmon, as it is called in Leith, eats well with salt and pepper strewed over it, cat in bits of three or four inches, and broiled over a clear fire. SALMON FRITTERS. Cut small some cold boiled salted salmon; pound some boiled potatoes, moistened with cream, and the yolk of an egg beaten; mix them together, and make it into small fritters, and fry them of a light brown in fresh lard, or beef dripping ; serve them with hard-boiled eggs, cut in quarters. For sauce, melt two ounces of butter, with a little cream and flour mixed, and add, when it is hot, a dessert-spoonful of soy, and two of mushroom catsup. CAVEACH SALMON Boil in two quarts of vinegar three heads of shalots, half an ounce of whole black pepper, three cloves, two blades of mace, and a little salt. Cut the fish in slices, and fry them of a light-brown colour in fine oil, or clarified dripping; put them, when cold, into a pan ; pour over them the vinegar and spices, and put on the top eight or ten spoonfuls of oil.