J54 BEES. descending, which they might do, by the other, to the hive from whence they were dislodged, the knocking on the under hive must he continued, till the bees, terrified by the noise, take refuge in the upper hive; then, with the fumigating bellows, or common tobacco pipe, blow into the hive a little smoke from lime leaves, or tobacco. The same operation having been performed on the other hive, that is, the hive destined to receive the new colony, the dislodged bees are emptied into it, and swept with a brush of feathers into the interstices between the combs ; the board being then put upon the hive, it is instantly reverted, and placed upon the stand. When a hive is merely to be deprived of a part of its store, the hive with the bees in it may be placed upon the pedestal from which the full one was removed, and the hive from which the bees have been driven must then be taken into the house. A few bees will be found still straggling about the combs, but they will be too frightened to use their sting. When the requisite quantity of comb is cut out, breaking it as little as possible, the hive should be cleared of every noxious matter, and returned to its former position ; but first invert the hive containing the bees, and place the deprived hive over it; leave them in this situation till the morning, when the bees will be found to have taken possession of their native home. At any season of the year, a weak hive may be strengthened from a strong one, by the following method : —Take a strong hive from its pedestal, and place on it that which has few bees in it; then turning up the strong one, give it several raps on its sides, when many of the bees will fly to their old station ; then place the strong hive where the weak one stood, or the other at a considerable distance. The bee-master, in approaching a hive, should avoid breath- ing on the bees ; and, if his manner be soft, calm, and gentle, he will in general need no protection from being stung; but when swarms are to be united, or hives deprived of a part of their store, the operator should be provided with thick worsted gloves, and a gauze, or piece of thin cloth, such as milk is usually strained through, for the head ; this last must be large enough to go over a man’s hat, and round the neck, so as to tie before with a string running through a tape or loop holes ; that part which comes next the face must be cut out, and a piece of very open gauze, catgut, or net-work, sewed therein. So protected, the most timid may proceed fearlessly ; but every one who undertakes the management of the bee, is more or less subject to its sting. No time should be lost in extracting it. Kub the wound briskly with