430 KITCHEN GARDEN. planted out in the beginning of April. The white Strasburg is the variety of which the Germans chiefly make their sour krout. The long or large-sided cabbage, being rather tender, should not be sown till May, nor planted out till July, SAVOYS. The principal sorts are the yellow and the green; the green being considered the hardiest. They are sown about the middle of April, and planted out in June, considerably closer than the common cabbage. If savoys be wanted before winter, the seed must be sown in February, or even in the autumn before : in the last case, fine large plants will be ready for the table in September or October. The later crop affords a supply till February or March, Savoys are reckoned better when somewhat pinched by the frost. If cabbages be planted, year after year, in the same ground, they will become sickly and stunted ; it is therefore advisable to change the cabbage ground every year. OPEN KALE. Young plants of the common cabbage are now generally used as colworts; for this purpose, either the sugar-loaf or the large York is sown about the middle or end of June, and planted out in the end of July, or beginning of August, to be ready for use in winter. SCOTS KALE Is sown in the beginning of July ; and in the course of the month of August, the young plants are set out in rows a foot and a half wide, and ten inches distance in the rows. This green will not be tender until it have endured some sharp frosts. When kale is planted out, it will be necessary to give water to the roots, should the weather be dry: no other at- tention is requisite, except that of drawdng the earth to the stems before winter. BRUSSELS SPROUTS Are sown in March or April; the seedlings planted out in June preferring showery weather, or watering carefully at the root: they are earthed up in October, and are ready for use by midwinter. As they grow upright, they may be planted closer than other kinds of greens. CAULIFLOWER. The seed of the early crop of cauliflow'er is sown about