52 FISH. TO BAKE SPRATS. Clean them, take off the heads, put them into a deep dish, and cover them with vinegar and water, equal quan- tities of each. To a quart of liquid, put half an ounce of whole black pepper, a little allspice, two or three bay leaves, some salt, and an onion. Tie paper over the dish, and bake them in a cool oven, or do them over a slow fire in a water bath. Herrings may be done in this way. Both will keep good some weeks. TO FRY SMELTS. This delicate little fish, when perfectly fresh, must not be washed, but wiped with a clean cloth, and dredged with flour, or brushed over with a feather, dipped into the yolk of an egg beaten, and rolled in a plate of finely-grated bread crumbs, and fried in boiling dripping, or fresh lard. They vary in size, and some will be done sooner than others. When of a clear yellow brown, take them out carefully, and lay them before the fire upon the back of a sieve to drain and keep hot. Dish them, heads and tails alternately. Gar- nish with fried parsley. Sauce : — Melted butter. 'I'hey may also be broiled. TO FRY SOLES. Take off the brown skin, and scrape the other side; wash well, wipe, and lay them in a clean cloth to dry; beat up in a plate the yolks of one or two eggs ; take the fish by the eyes, and draw them through the eggs, then sprinkle them over with finely-grated bread crumbs on both sides, never touching the fish but by the eyes; or they may be dredged with flour ; slip them into a frying-pan full of boiling fresh lard, or good dripping; when they become of a clear yellow brown, lay them carefully upon the back of a sieve or cloth before the fire. Serve them with plenty of fried parsley. Sauces : — Shrimp sauce and melted butter. TO BOIL SOLES, BRILL, OR ANY OTHER FLAT FISH. Clean them, cut off their fins, and put them on in boiling salt and water, and let it boil fast till the fish rises to the surface, when they will be done enough. Sauce: — An- chovy, and shrimp sauce. TO BOIL TROUT. Clean and gut them ; make the water as salt as for boiling