SOUPS. b ANOTHER CALF'S-HEAD SOUP. Scald and clean thoroughly a calf’s-head with the skin on, boil it an hour gently in three quarts of water, and par- boil it with some sweetbreads. Cut off the meat, slice and fry of a light brown in butter two pounds of gravy beef, one of veal, and one of mutton, with five onions cut small ; put all into the liquor, adding the bones of the head broken ; rinse the frying-pan with two quarts of boiling water, and put it to the meat, and other things, with two whole Onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and twice their quantity of parsley ; the peel of one lemon, four cloves, a little allspice, salt, and black pepper, with a slice of the crumb of bread dried before the fire ; let all this stew' slowly for five hours, strain it, and when cold, take off' all the fat. Cut the meat of the calf’s- head, tongue, and sweet-breads, in small square bits, add them to the soup, and when it has boiled, mix very gradually with a large table-spoonful of flour, a cupful of the soup, and stir it gently into the pot; twenty minutes before serving, add a small tea-spoonful of cayenne, the yolks of eight or ten hard-boiled eggs, and the same number of forcemeat balls; a pint of white wane,—madeira is the best,—and just before serving, add the juice of a lemon. Forcemeat balls for this soup are made as follows : —Mix the brains w'ith five table-spoonfuls of grated bread, the same of finely minced beef suet, a tea-spoonful of salt, one of white pepper, the grated peel of a lemon, some nutmeg, and boiled parsley chopped ; beat the yolks and whites of two eggs, roll the balls the size of the yolk of an egg, and fry them of a light brown in boiling dripping. ANOTHER CAIiF'S-HEAD SOUP. Fake as much as is required of not very strong veal, or beef stock, in which six onions have been boiled; brow'n tw o ounces of butter, and thicken it well w ith flour, then add the stock by degrees ; when it boils, put in the calf’s-head cut in small pieces, and some fried forcemeat balls ; season it with salt and pepper. The peel of half a lemon improves it. M lien it has boiled twenty minutes, add two table-spoonfuls of catsup, three of essence of anchovies, and as much lemon pickle as will make it a pleasant acid. To give the soup a good colour, and to enrich the flavour, may be added a large table-spoonful of flour, mixed perfectly smooth in a tea- cupful of cold water, and stirred gradually into the soup, after which let it boil a few minute.s.