PORK. 130 heat them whole in a Dutch oven, or cut them into slices, and broil them upon a gridiron ; or they may be put into the skins. TO DRESS THE BLOOD OF PIGS, CALVES, OR LAMBS WITHOUT SKINS. Cut an onion in small dice, and put it into a sauce-pan on a stove, or on the fire, with a bit of butter or hog’s lard ; when it is done, put in the blood, season it with pepper and ■ salt, and stir it gently on the fire as buttered eggs are done. A COLLAR OF BRAWN. Wash, scrape, and clean very thoroughly a large pig’s head, feet, and ears ; lay them into salt and water, with a little saltpetre, for three hours. To make the collar larger, boil two ox-heels, with the head, feet, and ears, till all the bones can be taken out easily ; then put the head round the mould, and the feet and small pieces into the middle ; put it together while hot, and press it with a heavy weight till it become cold. Boil for half an hour, in as much of the liquor as will cover the brawn, one handful of salt, one ounce of pepper, black and white mixed, and one or two bay leaves. When cold, pour it over the brawn. MOCK BRAWN. Take the blade bone out of the shoulder, and boil it gently two hours or more, according to the age of the boar. When it is cold, season it very highly with black pepper, cayenne, salt, a very little allspice, minced onion, and thyme. Let it lie a night in this seasoning ; the following day, make a savoury forcemeat of pounded veal, ham, beef suet, minced parsley, thyme, and an onion, a little lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, white pepper, and cayenne; bind it with an egg beaten, and stuff where the bone has been taken out. Put it into a deep pan with the brown side downwards, and lay under it twigs or small sticks, to keep it from sticking to the bottom ; pour in a bottle of beer, and put it into the oven. When nearly done, take it out and clear off all the fat; add a bottle of Madeira and the juice of a large lemon, return it to the oven, and bake it till it become as tender as a jelly, so that a straw will pierce it easily. If the boar is an old one, it will require to be baked six or seven hours. This dish is eaten hot. TO STEW PIGS' FEET. Clean them well, and boil them till they are tender.