CAKES, BISCUITS, &a 310 gether, rolled out, but not made quite so thick as in the rich kind ; but in the same form, pricked with a fork, and pinched all round, A little sugar may be added. QUEEN Ci^KES. Prepare eight ounces of fresh butter beaten to a cream, six ounces of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, half a pound of dried and sifted flour, the same quantity of cleaned and dried currants, four well-beaten eggs, a little grated nutmeg, poun- ded cinnamon, and a few pounded bitter almonds ; then add the sugar to the butter, put in the eggs by degrees, after that the flour and the other ingredients ; beat all well together for half an hour, and put it into small buttered tins, nearly filling them, and strew over the top finely-pounded loaf sugar. Bake them in a pretty brisk oven. SHREWSBURY CAKES. Mix, with half a pound of fresh butter washed in rose water, and beaten to a cream, the same quantity of dried and sifted flour, seven ounces of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, half an ounce of caravray seeds, and two well-beaten eggs ; make them into a paste; roll it thin; cut it into round cakes ; prick them, and bake them upon floured tins. ANOTHER WAY TO RIAKE SHREWSBURY CAKES, Rub into a pound of dried and sifted flour, half a pound of fresh butter, seven ounces of sifted loaf sugar, and the same (juantity of cleaned and dried currants, and a little grated nutmeg; make it into a paste with a little water, two table- spoonfuls of rose or orange-flower water ; roll it out, and cut it into round cakes; prick them, and bake them upon tins dusted with flour. MONTROSE CAKES. Of dried and sifted flour, pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and of fresh butter, one pound each will be required, also twelve well-beaten eggs, three quarters of a pound of cleaned and dried currants; beat the butter to a cream with the sugar ; add the eggs by degrees, and then the flour and cur- rants, with two table-spoonfuls of brandy, one of rose w^ater, and half a grated nutmeg ; beat all well together for twenty or thirty minutes, when it is to be pul into small buttered tins, half filling them, and baking them in a quick oven. The currants may be omitted.