204 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. the same of pounded loaf sugar; add one beaten egg, and as much warm water as will make it into a paste; roll it thin for any kind of fruit tart; rub it over with the beaten white of an egg, and sift sugar over it. RICH PASTE FOR TARTS AND CHEESE CAKES. Pound and sift six ounces of loaf sugar, and add it by degrees to eight ounces of fresh butter beaten to a cream ; beat four eggs till very light, and add them, together with a little grated lemon-peel, some cinnamon or nutmeg; stir in dried and sifted flour, to make it into a paste, but not very stiff. PASTE FOR TARTS. Mix one ounce of grated and sifted loaf sugar with one pound of flour ; make it into a stiff paste with a gill of boiling cream ; work well into it three ounces of butter, and roll it out very thin. RICE PASTE. Mix together half a pound of sifted ground rice and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter ; work it into a paste with cold water, dredge flour over the paste-board and rolling-pin, roll out the paste, and put over it, in little bits, another quarter of a pound of butter ; fold and roll it out three times, strewing each time a little flour over and under it, as also over the rolling-pin. Cover the tart, and glaze it before being baked. This paste must be eaten the day it is baked. ANOTHER RICE PASTE. Boil, in a pint of water, half a pound of good rice ; drain off the water, and pound the rice in a mortar, with a small bit of butter, and an egg beaten; then roll it out to cover any fruit tart. POTATO PASTE. Mash sixteen ounces of boiled potatoes, while they are warm ; then rub them between the hands, together with twelve ounces of flour; when it is well mixed, and all looks like flour, add half a tea-spoonful of salt, and, with a little cold water, make it into a stiff paste; beat and roll it out three or four times, making it very thin the last time. Lay over it black currant jam, raspberries, or any sort of pre- serve ; rub the edges with water, roll it up like a bolster