FISH. 54 them with a board, and place upon it a heavy weight. When perfectly cold, remove the fish into fresh jars, smooth them with a knife, and cover them with clarified butter. TO BROIL FRESH STURGEON, Cut it into cutlets; rub them with the yolk of an egg beat up; strew them over with some parsley, minced very fine, and mixed with grated bread crumbs, pepper, and salt; put them into pieces of white paper buttered, and broil them gently. Sauces : — Oyster, melted butter, and anchovy. SOUR KROUT WITH PIKE. When the krout is boiled, clean a large pike, scrape and cut it into neat pieces, dip them into the beaten yolk of an egg, then into bread crumbs, and fry them of a nice brown ; rub some butter upon a dish, and put into it a layer of krout, and some grated cheese, then a layer of pike, and a little sour cream; then krout, and so on till the dish be full. On the top put some bits of butter, and some good broth or gravy; strew crumbs of bread thickly over it, and bake it half an hour. TO BOIL PIKE. Wash clean, and take out the gills; stuff them with the following forcemeat; — Equal parts of chopped oysters, gra- ted bread crumbs, beef suet, or butter, two anchovies, a little onion, pepper, salt, nutmeg, minced parsley, sweet marjoram, thyme, and savory with an egg to bind it. Stuff the insides and sew them up ; put them on in boiling salt and water, with a glass of vinegar, and let them boil for half an hour. Sauces : — Oyster, and melted butter. They may also be broiled. BAKED PIKE. Scrape the scales off a large pike, take out the gills, and clean it, without breaking the skin ; stuff the fish vvith a forcemeat made of two handfuls of grated bread, one of finely minced suet, some cliopped parsley, and a little fresh butter seasoned with pepper, salt, mace, grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, pounded all together in a mortar, with two whole fasten the tail of the pike into its mouth with a skewer, and then dip it, first into a well-beaten egg, and then into grated bread, which repeat twice; baste it over with butter, and bake it in an oven. If two of them are to be served, make one of them of a