82 BEEF. OLIVE ROYALS. Boil one pound of potatoes, and when nearly cold, rub them perfectly smooth with four ounces of flour and one ounce of butter, and knead it together till it become a paste; roll it out about a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into rounds, and lay upon one side any sort of cold roasted meat cut into tiiin small bits, and seasoned with pepper and salt; put a very small bit of butter over it, wet the edges, and close the paste in the form of a half circle. Fry them in boiling fresh dripping of a light brown colour; lay them before the fire, on the back of a sieve, to drain. Serve them with or without gravy in the dish. For a change, mince the meat, and season it as before directed. The potatoes should be very mealy. BEEF AND OYSTER SAUSAGES. Scald three quarters of a pint of oysters in their own liquor; take them out and chop them finely; mince one pound of beef and mutton, and three quarters of a pound of beef suet; add the oysters, and season with salt, pepper, mace, and two cloves pounded ; beat up two eggs, and mix tliem well with the other ingredients, and pack it closely into a jar. When to be used, roll it into the form of small sau- sages ; dip them into the yolk of an egg beaten up ; strew grated bread crumbs over them, or dust with flour, and fry them in fresh dripping. Serve them upon fried bread, hot. HAIVIBURG BEEF. Put on in cold water a brisket of beef; when it boils, | skim it well; take out the beef, let it cool, and then rub it well with three handfuls of salt, and two tea-spoonfuls of saltpetre ; beat it well with a rolling-pin for twenty or thirty minutes; put it into a pickling-tub, strew over it a small handful of salt, let it lie four days ; then turn it, put the same quantity of salt, and let it lie four days more; after which sew it into a piece of old linen, and let it hang twelve days E in smoke. ^ TO BOIL OX CHEER. Wash very clean half a head ; let it lie in cold water all ' night; break the^ bone in two, taking care not to break the I flesh. Put it on in a pot of boiling water, and let it boil from two to three hours ; take out the bone. Serve it with boiled carrots and turnips, or savoys. The liquor the head i t