64 FISH. and when the liquor boils take them off, skim the surface, and put the oysters into a bowl; let the liquor settle, pour off the clear part, and put it on to boil, with spices, allowing for three hundred oysters, half an ounce of whole black pepper, a little mace and allspice ; boil it ten minutes, then add the oysters, and let them boil two minutes; put them into a jar, and when they are cold, tie a paper over it. OYSTER LOAVES Cut off the top of some small French rolls, take out the crumb, and fry them brown and crisp with clarified butter ; then fry some bread crumbs ; stew the requisite quantity of oysters, bearded, and cut into two, in their liquor, with a little white wine, some gravy, and seasoned with grated lemon-peel, pounded mace, pepper, and salt; add a bit of butter; fill the rolls with the oysters, and serve them wdth the fried bread crumbs in the dish. OYSTER ATTELETS. Cut into small pieces a sweetbread and a slice or two of bacon ; beard some large oysters, and season all highly with chopped parsley, shalot, a little thyme, pepper, and salt. Then fasten them alternately upon wire skewers ; put sifted bread crumbs over them, and boil or fry them of a light brown colour. Take them off the skew'ers, and serve them with some rich gravy, to which add a little catsup and lemon pickle. TO FICKLE MUSSELS. Shell and beard them, save their liquor, put them on with it ana some whole black and Jamaica pepper, ginger, mace, and salt; boil them five minutes, and when cold, if they are required to be kept, add a little vinegar. ANOTHER WAY TO PICKLE MUSSELS. Wash them clean, and put them into a sauce-pan over a quick fire; shake them, that all may be done equally; take them off as soon as the shells open, pick out the mussels and beard them, and keep the liquor separate ; let it settle, strain it, and boil it with a little whole black and Jamaica pepper and salt; put in the mussels, and boil them for three minutes. Cockles are managed in the same manner, and both ought to be eaten quite fresh.