PRESERVES. 331 from them boil with the sugar, previously weighed in equal quantities with the fruit; then add the gooseberry skins, and boil them till perfectly clear. GOOSEBERRY JAM FOR PUDDINGS. Allow equal weight of the red rough gooseberries, and of good brown sugar ; gather the fruit upon a dry day; top and tail them, and put a layer alternately of gooseberries and of sugar into a preserving pan ; shake it frequently, skim it well, and boil it till the sirup jellies, which may be ascertained by cooling a little in a saucer. Black and red currants may be done in this way for com- mon use. BX.AOK CURRANT JELLT. Gather the fruit upon a dry day, pick it clean from the stalks ; put into a preserving pan eight pounds, and one pint of water; bruise the currants till they get a scald; pour them into a hair-sieve, and with the hands press out all the juice, which strain through a piece of muslin ; and to each pint, allow one pound of fine loaf sugar ; break it small, and with the juice put it into a preserving pan ; stir it till it boils ; let it boil for three minutes, and skim it. RASPBERRIES PRESERVED WHOLE. Gather the raspberries upon a dry day, and when the sun is not upon them ; weigh equal quantities of finely-pounded loaf sugar and of fruit; put a layer of each alternately into a preserving pan, shake it constantly till it boils, carefully take off the scum, and boil it for fifteen minutes ; or the sugar may be clarified, boiled candy high, and the fruit added, WHITE RASPBERRIES PRESERVED WHOLE. Gather the raspberries upon a dry day, and to each pound allow one of sugar; clarify and boil till candy high all but one pound, which pound and sift; put the raspberries into the clarified sugar, and boil it for five minutes; take it off, and strew over the pound of sifted sugar; when almost cold, to every pound of fruit, add half a pint of dripped white cur- rant juice, and half a pound of finely-pounded sugar; boil and skim it till the fruit be transparent. TO PRESERVE RASPBERRIES. G ather the fruit upon a dry day ; to each pound of rasp- berries, allow half a pint of red currant juice, and a pound