CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 269 ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE ITALIAN CREAM. Sweeten a pint of cream with pounded loaf sugar ; boil it with the thinly-pared rind of a lemon, and a bit of cinnamon ; strain, and mix it with half an ounce of dissolved isinglass ; add it, while boiling hot, to the well-beaten yolks of six eggs, stir it till quite cold, and put it into a shape or mould. BURNT CREAM. Boil a pint of cream with the peel of a lemon ; sweeten it with pounded loaf sugar; beat, with the yolks of six, and whites of four eggs, one table-spoonful of flour, the same of orange-flower water and of ratafia; strain the cream, and when nearly cold, mix it with the eggs and other things; stir it over the fire till it be as thick as a custard ; put it into a silver dish, strew sifted loaf sugar over the top, and brown it with a salamander. Serve it cold. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE BURNT CREAM. Beat, with the yolks of four eggs, a table-spoonful of flour, the grated peel of half a lemon, and three pounded bitter almonds ; sweeten it with pounded loaf sugar, and stir it over the fire till it becomes as thick as a custard; put it into the dish it is to be served in. Boil with a little water some pounded loaf sugar, till it turn brown, but do not stir it till taken off the fire ; by degrees pour it in figures over the top of the cream. It may be eaten hot or cold. LEMON CREAM. Mix with a quart of cream the thinly-pared rind of a large lemon, the strained juice of two lemons; sweeten with poun- ded loaf sugar ; whisk it in a large pan, and as the froth rises, lay it upon a sieve placed over a deep dish ; as it drains, pour the cream into the pan till all is done. Talce out the lemon-peel, put a piece of muslin into an earthenware or tin shape, with holes in it; fill it with the whipt cream, heaped as high as possible; set it in a cool place, and turn it out in twelve hours. This cream may be served in a glass dish, after it has been wliisked a quarter of an hour. WHITE LEMON CREAM. Rub, with some lumps of loaf sugar, the rinds of six lemons, and grate off the remainder ; squeeze and strain the juice, and add the grated peel and sugar, with three quarters of a pound of pounded loaf sugar; put to this a quart of rich