KITCHEN GARDEN. 439 ner the shoots will be very sweet and tender ; but they will not be produced so early as by the former method. ONIONS. The soil for onions should be light, and not recently manured ; it should be well delved and broken fine, and exactly levelled. There are several varieties in use, but the Strasburg may be mentioned as being as good as any. For the principal crop, the seed is sown in February or the be- ginning of March ; but, should the land be heavy, it is better to defer the sowing till the end of March or beginning of April. The seed is sown broadcast; a very slight covering of earth is given, and the ground is merely smoothed over with the rake. A first hoeing is given when the plants have advanced three or four inches in growth, and they are then thinned nut with the hand to about four inches apart. An- other hoeing is given about a month or six weeks afterwards, when the plants are singled out to about six inches square. After this the hoe must never be used, but any large weeds must be drawn out with the hand. If the weather be dry at the time of thinning, a plentiful watering must immediately afterwards be given. About the end of August, the crop will be known to be ripe by the leaves falling down. The onions are then drawn, and laid out on a gravel walk in some dry spot, and occasionally turned. In a fortnight they are gene- rally found to be firm enough for keeping, and must be stored in a dry garret or loft, excluding them as much as may be from the air. The crop of winter onions is sown in August or beginning of September ; they are thinned in the usual way, and weeds must be carefully kept down. In the spring, when the keeping onions fail, part of these may be drawn for use; the remainder will be ready in the early part of summer. About the month of May, any of the stalks which appear to be pushing a flower-stem must be thrown out, and, to check this tendency, the rest of this crop should be laid down, which is done by passing the handle of a rake horizontally along the bed, so as to strike the stems an inch or tw'o above the bulb, and bend them flat down. Winter onions thus managed may be taken up about the end of June, and are generally firm, and keep long. For pickling, the small silver-skinned variety is best; they should be sown pretty thickly about the middle of April, in light and very poor land, as they are not required of a large size for this purpose ; they need not be thinned, unless when they rise absolutely in clusters. They will be fit for use in August.