PORK. 129 PICKLED LEG OF PORK. Salt it eight or ten days; turn and rub it daily. Before being dressed, let it lie in cold water for half an hour; put it on in cold water; when it boils, take off the scum, and let it simmer till done. If weighing seven or eight pounds, it will take nearly three hours to boil. Serve with peas-pudding and boiled greens. About two or three pounds of pickled pork will require to be simmered for an hour and a half. PORK STEAKS. Cut them off a neck or loin; trim them neatly, and pepper them; broil them over a clear fire, turning them frequently ; they will take twenty minutes. Sprinkle them with a little salt before serving. BLACK PUDDINGS. Throw a little salt into the blood while it is warm, and stir it till it become cold; boil in milk, till quite tender, two quarts of half grits. When nearly cold, put in the inward fat of the pig cut into pieces the size of a small nutmeg ; season with pepper, salt, cloves, and mace ; of herbs, parsley, sweet marjoram, winter savory, pennyroyal, and leeks, all finely minced. Mix them with the grits and fat, and add a sufficiency of the blood to make it of a dark colour. The skins or guts must be very well washed, and when perfectly cleansed, laid into salt and water the night before. When they are to be filled, tie one end, and turn the inside out; half fill them ; tie them of equal lengths or in rounds, put them into hot water, and when they have boiled five minutes, take them out, prick them with a large needle, and then boil them half an hour. When they are cold, hang them up in a cool dry place. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE BLACK PUDDINGS. Prepare the blood as before directed, and to a pint and a half allow six ounces of rice boiled in a quart of milk till it be tender, and the grated crumb of a half-quartern loaf. Season with black pepper, salt, cloves, and mace ; of herbs, parsley, savory, pennyroyal, a little sage and onion, all finely minced; one pound of beef suet chopped very fine, a small quantity of the inward fat of the pig finely cut, and four eggs well beaten and strained. Mix all these ingredients together, and stir in the blood. Divide it into three puddings, and boil them in pudding-cloths floured. When they are to be used, I