PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 223 leaves, or any other form, and bake them of a light brown colour, upon flat tins dusted with flour. PRESERVED FRUIT TARTS. Rub over with a little butter an oval dish, or tin shape ; line it with paste, and fill it with any sort of preserved fruit. Roll out a bit of paste thin, and, with a paste-cutter, cut it into narrow strips ; brush with water the rim of the shape, and lay the bars of paste across and across, and then put round a border of paste, and mark it with the paste-cutter. PUFFS. Roll out puff paste nearly a quarter of an inch thick, and, with a small saucer, or tin cutter of that size, cut it into round pieces ; place upon one side raspberry or strawberry jam, or any sort of preserved fruit, or stewed apples ; wet the edges, fold over the other side, and press it round with the finger and thumb. Or, cut the paste into the form of a diamond, lay on the fruit, and fold over the paste, so as to give it a triangular shape. PYRAIVIID OF PASTE. Make a rich puff paste; roll it out a quarter of an iucli thick, and cut it into five or seven pieces with scolloped tin paste-cutters, which go one within another; leave the bottom and top piece entire, and cut a bit out of the centre of the others; bake them of a light brown, upon buttered paper placed upon tins. When served, build them into a pyramid, laying a different preserved fruit upon each piece of paste, and on the top a whole apricot, with a sprig of myrtle stuck into it, or three green-gages, ornamented with a branch of barberries. CURD CHEESE CAKES. Boil, in two quarts of cream, the well-beaten yolks of four, and the whites of five eggs ; drain off the whey gently, and mix with the curd grated nutmeg, pounded cinnamon, three table-spoonfuls of best rose water, as much white wine, four ounces of pounded loaf sugar, the same quantity of but- ter beaten to a cream, and of pounded biscuit. Mix all these ingredients well together, and stir in a quarter of a pound of currants. Bake it in a large tin, or in patty-pans lined with paste; or it may be baked in a dish previously buttered.