30 SOUPS. about an hour and a quarter before sending it to table ; and serve it in a tureen. CREAin OF RICE SOUP. Mix one or two table-spoonfuls of sifted flour of rice with a little good stock, rather cold than hot; add this to some boiling stock, and keep stirring till it boils; and let it boil till sufficiently thick. The flour of rice may be made as follows : —Wash in several waters a pound of rice; wipe it in a clean towel, and when perfectly dry, pound and sift it through a sieve. FRIARS' CHICKEN. Put four pounds of a knuckle of veal into four quarts of water ; boil it gently for two hours ; strain it off; cut three chickens, or two young fowls, into joints ; skin them, and when the broth boils put them in ; season with white pepper and salt; let them boil a short time, and add a handful of parsley chopped small; when the chickens are boiled tender, have ready six or seven well-beaten eggs ; stir them quickly into the broth one way, immediately before taking it off the fire. This broth may be made entirely of veal, instead of chickens. ANOTHER FRIARS' CHICKEN. Clean and wash three chickens ; skin and cut them into joints ; put them, with the livers and gizzards, on in two quarts of cold water ; when it boils skim it; season with salt and white pepper. In half an hour add a handful of chopped parsley, and let it boil for half an hour longer. Beat well the whites and yolks of four or six eggs, and, just before serving, stir them very quickly one way into the broth. PORTABLE SOUP. Put on, in four gallons of water, ten pounds of a shin of beef, free from fat and skin, six pounds of a knuckle of veal, and two fowls; break the bones and cut the meat into small pieces; season with one ounce of whole black pepper, a quarter of an ounce of Jamacia pepper, and the same of mace ; cover the pot very closely, and let it simmer for twelve or fourteen hours, and then strain it. The following day, take ofiPthe fixt, and clear the jelly from any sediment adhering to it; boil it gently upon a stove, without covering the sauce- pan, and stir it frequently till it becomes very thick and in