84 BEEF. parboil the sweetbreads with them ; skin and cut the palates into pieces, and if the sweetbreads are large, cut them in two the long way ; dust them with flour, and fry them of a light brown, in butter ; then stew them in rather more than a pint of the liquor in which they were boiled. Brown a piece of butter with flour ; add it, with a little cayenne, salt, pepper, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg, and a glass of white wine. A little before serving, stir in a spoonful of vinegar, or the squeeze of a lemon. BEEF PAIJVTES. Parboil, skin, and cut the palates into strips ; fry an onion in butter, and add the palates and a bunch of sweet herbs ; moisten them with some well-seasoned stock, and when sufficiently done, add a little mustard. BIJVNQUETTE OF PAIJVTES OF BEEF. Boil in weak broth or water, six or eight nicely cleaned beef palates, and when the black skin will easily peel off, they are done enough ; then skin and cut them into pieces the size of a shilling, and stew them in a sauce tournee. Serve them in a casserole of rice, or a vol au vent. TO BROIL BEEF-STEAKS. Cut the steaks off a rump or the ribs of a fore-quarter; beat them well with a rolling-pin. Have the gridiron per- fectly clean and heated over a clear quick fire ; lay on the steaks, and with meat tongs keep turning them constantly, till they are done enough ; throw a little salt over them "a little before taking them off the fire. Serve them as hot as possible, plain, or with a made gravy and sliced onion, or rub a bit of butter upon the steaks the moment of serving. The dish may be garnished with bits of fat, which should be done apart from the steaks, that the dripping of the grease may not smoke the meat. Mutton chops are broiled in the same manner. OX-FEET OR COW-HEEL. W ASH them well; boil them in plenty of water, till the hoofs come off, and the hair can be pulled off, and scraped clean ; wash them well, and boil them in fresh water till all the bones can be easily taken out. To pot them, cut them into srnall pieces, add a little of the liquor, heat it, and season it with some salt and vinegar ; put it into a mould, and when it becomes cold, turn it out. It is eaten with