FISH. 49 docks by the tail in pairs, and hang them on the sticks to smoke; the heat should be kept as equal as possible, as it spoils the fish to get alternately hot and cold. When done, they should be of a fine yellow colour, which they should acquire in twelve hours at farthest. When they are to be dressed, the skin must be taken off. They may be boiled, or broiled ; and are generally used for breakfast. TO FRY WHITING. ScRAPK off the scales and cut off the fins; wipe them dry with a clean cloth ; dredge them with flour, or beat up the yolk of an egg, and with a feather rub them over with it, and sprinkle them with finely-grated bread crumbs. Fry them of a nice brown in boiling fresh lard or dripping. If small, and used as a garnish, they should be curled. To broil them, they are previously prepared in the same way. If boiled, the gut is drawn out, but they must not be washed. TO BOIL MACKEREL. Clean them well, and let them lie in vinegar and water for a short time ; put them on in boiling salt and water for a quarter of an hour. Serve garnished with fennel. Sauces : — Fennel and butter, and green gooseberry sauce. To souse them: Put in the proportion of half a pint of vinegar to a quart of the liquor the fish has been boiled in, half an ounce of whole black pepper, a little mace, two or three bay leaves ; and when cold, cover the mackerel com- pletely with it, picking out the bay leaves. TO BROIL MACKEREL. Clean and split them open, wipe them dry, rub them over with butter, and sprinkle them with pepper and salt. TO BAKE MACKEREL. Clean them; cut off the heads and tails ; put them into a deep dish, and pour over them equal quantities of water and vinegar, some whole black pepper, a little mace, salt, one or two bay leaves, and a small quantity of port wine ; tie over the dish a sheet of thick white paper buttered. Another way is, to season them with pepper, salt, and a little mace, all finely powdered, putting bits of butter into the bottom of the dish, and a little more butter upon the mackerel. They may be eaten hot or cold; if cold, with D