14S POULTRY. them in a cloth ; cut them down the back, truss the legs and wings, as for boiling; flatten them, and put them upon a cold gridiron; when they become a little dry, put them upon a plate, baste them with butter, and strew a little salt and pep- per over the inside, which part is laid first upon the gridiron ; baste them frequently, and let them broil slowly for about half an hour. Serve them very hot, with melted butter poured over them, or plenty of stewed mushrooms. The livers and gizzards may be broiled with them, fastened into the wings, or well seasoned, broiled, and served with the chickens. BOUDIN A LA ZUCHLIEU. Put the crumb of a good-sized stale roll into a basin, and cover it with milk, about as warm as when it comes from the cow; let it stand half an hour, then with a spoon take off all the milk, and put the bread into a sauce-pan, with a good bit of butter, one onion chopped very finely, a little parsley and herbs. Keep stirring it on the fire till it becomes quite stiff, then take it off, and add the yolk of an egg, which must be well beaten into it; let it then cool before adding the meat, which may be of chicken, veal, or lamb, that has been already dressed. Half a pound of any of these meats, pound- ed or grated very fine, is the quantity required Beat two eggs, whisking up well both yolks and whites ; add them to the meat and bread, and beat them altogether for some time ; the more they are beaten, the lighter the boudin will be. Butter a shape, and fill it; tie the shape in a cloth, and put it on to boil for three hours. A rich sauce, thickened and seasoned, is to be poured over the boudin when it is dished. BURDWAN STEW. Cut into joints a cold fowl or duck ; put it into a stew- pan, with half a pint of gravy, a large wine-glass of ale, half a one of white wine, the juice of half a lemon, a tea-spoon- ful of soy and cayenne ; of mushroom catsup, lemon pickle, cucumber vinegar, corach escavecke, a dessert-spoonful each. Heat all thoroughly before serving. Cold boiled or roasted lamb or kid may be dressed in this way. AN OLIO. Parboil two chickens or two rabbits; cut the meat into bits, about the size of a small oyster; stew them in a pint and a half of good gravy, with a quarter of a hundred of oysters, four blades of mace, a nutmeg sliced, pepper, salt.