276 CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. to a quart of rich cream, with a stick of cinnamon, the peel of a lemon, two or three laurel leaves, or a few bitter almonds; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar; stir it over the fire, and let it boil for two or three minutes; strain it through a bit of muslin into a deep dish, and stir it till nearly cold, then pour it into an earthenware mould or shape ; the following day, dip the mould into warm water for a minute or so, clap it with the hand to loosen the edge, place the glass or china dish over the mould, and turn it out quickly upon the dish. As much cow-heel stock as will half fill the shape may be substituted for the isinglass. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE BXJVNCMAN6E. Blanch and pound, with a little ratafia or rose water, two ounces of sweet, and six bitter almonds ; dissolve three quar- ters of an ounce of isinglass ; add it, when milk-warm, to a quart of good cream — half milk half cream may be used ; mix in the almonds, the peel of a small lemon, and a bit of cin- namon ; sweeten it with pounded loaf sugar, let it stand for two or three hours, put it into a sauce-pan, stir it constantly, and let it boil for six or eight minutes ; strain it through a lawn sieve, and stir it till nearly cold, then pour it into a mould. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE BLANCMANGE. Blanch and pound one ounce of sweet almonds with a glass of sherry, and a table-spoonful of pounded loaf sugar; add it to three quarters of an ounce of isinglass dissolved in half a pint of water, and boil it till the flavour of the almonds be extracted, stirring it all the time ; strain it through a bit of thin muslin, and mix with it a quart of good cream ; stir it till quite cold, and pour it into a shape. BLANCMANGE EGGS. Make a small hole at the end of four or five large eggs, and let out all the egg carefully ; wash the shells, drain, and fill them with blancmange ; place them in a deep dish filled with rice or barley to keep them steady, and when quite cold, gently break and peel off the shell. Cut the peel of a lemon into delicately fine shreds, lay them into a glass dish, and put in the eggs ; or serve them in a glass dish with a pink cream round them. AMERICAN BLANCMANGE. Mix half a pint of cold w'ater with two ounces of arrow- root; let it settle for fifteen minutes, pour off the water, and