28 SOUPS. and strain it through a fine hair sieve, pressing the pulp of onions with a wooden spoon ; then bod it well, skimming it all the time. Beat the meat of a boiled haddock, the spawn and body of a large lobster, or of two small ones, in a marble mortar; add gradually to it the soup, stirring it till it is as smooth as cream; let it boil again and scum it. Cut the tail and claws of the lobster into pieces, and add them to the soup before serving it, and also some pepper, cayenne, white pepper, and a glass of white wine. Forcemeat balls may be added to oyster soup and lobster soup, made as directed under the article “ Forcemeat for Fish.” CRAPPET HEADS, OR FISH SOUP Put on in boiling salt-and-water two haddocks, and the Uiils, fins, and roes of six ; in a quarter of an hour take out the roes and fish ; let the liquor boil for an hour longer, and strain it. When cold, pick all the fish from the bones, and pick out the strings and skin from the roes ; peel and chop two onions, put them on the fire in cold water, and when it boils pour off the w’ater; take half a pound of shortbread in crumbs, two tea-spoonfuls of salt, one and a half of white pepper, and one of grated nutmeg — mince all these ingre- dients, mix them together thoroughly, and hind them with two beaten whites of eggs. Have ready six heads of had- docks, skinned, and the eyes taken out; make up a large ball of the forcemeat; stuff the heads, and tie them round with a coarse thread. Boil the liquor; thicken it with flour kneaded in butter ; add some parsley and a little pepper, two table-spoonfuls of mushroom, the same quantity of wal- nut catsup, and half a pint of white wine. Skin and cut two haddocks in three or four pieces each, and put them with the heads into the stock, and boil them till they are sufficiently done, which may be in about a quarter of an hour. Hard biscuit pounded may be used in place of shortbread, when a little fresh butter must be added. If any of the force- meat is over, make it up in small balls. WATER SOUGHT. Make a stock with three or four flounders, two onions, and a bunch of parsley boiled in three quarts of water till they are soft enough to pulp through a sieve; then season the liquor with pepper, salt, and some parsley chopped, and boil in it a few flounders, with the brown skin taken off, or