FISH. 39 Cold boiled turbot eats well with salad sauce. Turbot is generally considered best perfectly fresh; but some people prefer it kept for a few days, hung up by the tail in a cool place. TO BOIL A COD'S HEAD AND SHOULDERS. WASH it clean ; tie it up, and dry it with a cloth. Allow, in the proportion of every three measures of water, one of salt; when it boils, take off the scum, put in the fish, and keep it boiling very fast for twenty-five or thirty minutes. Serve with it the roe cut into slices, and fried with the chitterlings; and garnish with curled parsley and horse- radish. Sauces : — Oyster, melted butter, or anchovy and butter. When the cod is to be kept for two or three days, cleanse it thoroughly, and sprinkle it with nearly equal proportions of salt and sugar; and before being boiled, cut it into slices, three inches thick; lay them in salt and water for two hours, changing the water once; tie them in a cloth, and boil them in boiling salt and water for fifteen minutes. TO DRESS A COD’S HEAD AND SHOULDERS. Wash the cod’s head and shoulders well; cut off the fins ; lay it on a dish ; pour some boiling water over part of the fish, and instantly scrape off’ all the black scales, taking care not to break the skin ; repeat this till every part of the fish looks wdiite, and then wash it in cold water. Put it on in boiling salt-and-water, and boil it for a quarter of an hour ; then lay it on a dish, and rub it all over with the yolks of two or three beaten eggs, and strew it thickly with grated bread crumbs, mixed with pepper and minced parsley ; stick it all over with little bits of butter, and put it in an oven to brown. Mix a large table-spoonful of flour with a quarter of a pound of butter, a quart of gravy, a tea-cupful of white wine, some pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Mince the white meat of a lobster ; slightly brown three dozen of oysters in a frying-pan, and put them with half their liquor and the lobster to the gravy, and other things ; heat it up, and pour it round the fish. Garnish with cut lemon. It is not necessary to have lobster and oysters, but it is the better for both. To dress the same dish with a white sauce, the stock should be made of veal, or an old fowl, and seasoned with white pepper and mace.