PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 231 of cinnamon ; when it is rather thick, add half a pint of white wine, and sweeten it with good brow’n sugar ; beat the yolks of six, and the whites of three eggs, pick out the lemon-peel and cinnamon, mix all w'ell together, and bake it in a dish with or without puff paste. MILLET PUDDING. Wash four table-spoonfuls of the seed; boil it in a quart of milk with grated nutmeg and lemon-peel, and stir in, when a little cooled, an ounce of fresh butter; sweeten with brown sugar, and add the well-beaten yolks of four, and the whites of two eggs, and a glass of wine or spirits. Bake it in a buttered dish. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE MILLET PUDDING. Wash a quarter of a pound of millet; mix it with a quart of new milk, three ounces of brown sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, broken into small bits, and a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg. Put it into a well-buttered dish, and bake it for an hour and a half. TAPIOCA PUDDING. Wash two large table-spoonfuls of tapioca, and soak it for an hour in a little warm water ; strain off the water, and mix it with the well-beaten yolks of four, and the whites of two eggs, a quart of good milk, half a tea spoonful of grated nut- meg, a small tea-cupful of white wine, and sweeten it with brown sugar. Bake it in a dish, with or without puff paste round the edges. CAMP PUDDINGS. Put into a sauce-pan half a pint of water, a quarter of a pound of butter, a table-spoonful of brown sugar, and the peel of half a lemon, or orange. Let it just come to a boil, take it off, and stir in a quarter of a pound of sifted flour; mix it perfectly smooth, and when cold, beat in four well- beaten eggs. Half fill twelve yellow tea-cups, and bake them in a quick oven. Serve them with a sauce of wine, sugar, and butter, in a sauce-tureen. MACAROON PUDDINGS. Pour one pint of boiling cream over half a pound of ma- caroons ; when cold, break them small with the back of a spoon ; add the beaten yolks and the whites of four eggs, with a glass of brandy, and a little pounded sugar. Put it into tea-cups, and bake tliem about fifteen minutes.