279 CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. pounded with two table-spoonfuls of rose water ; sweeten wdth loaf sugar, and stir it altogether till it nearly boils ; add the well-beaten yolks of three eggs ; stir, and let it simmer for about a minute; pour it into a dish, or serve it in cups, with sifted loaf sugar over the top. COMmON CUSTARD. Boil a pint of milk with a bit of cinnamon and two or three laurel leaves ; mix with one table-spoonful of flour, or potato flour, two and a half of cold milk, put it into a lawn sieve, and pour the boiling milk upon it; let it run into a basin ; mix in by degrees the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, sweeten, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes to thicken. CUSTARD WITH CAKES. Bac.ix into small bits twelve macaroons, and twelve ra- tafia biscuit; pour over them a hot custard, and stir it till well mixed with the cakes. Put it into a glass dish, and when cold, grate nutmeg over it. TO ORNAMENT CUSTARDS OR CREAMS. Whisk for one hour the whites of two eggs, together with two table-spoonfuls of raspberry, or red currant sirup or jelly; lay it in any form upon a custard or cream, piled up to imitate rock. It may be served in a dish with cream round it. CALF’S-FEET JELLY CAKE, ScALU, take off the hair, and clean two dozen of calfs feet; put them on in cold water, allowing the proportion of two quarts to four feet; boil them slowly for eight or nine hours, take out the bones, and strain the liquor through a hair-sieve. The following day, remove carefully every par- ticle of fat, and the sediment at the bottom, then put the jelly into a nicely-cleaned brass pan ; let it boil over a stove, or slow fire, till it becomes very thick, and appears almost black in the pan ; then put a little of it over the bottom of small plates to dry, and when cool, turn it; the next day lay it upon tins, or sheets of paper, and place them at a little distance from the fire, that it may dry gradually ; when clear and hard, put it up in paper bags. Pour ounces of this jelly, dissolved in three pints of water, and boiled to a quart, is sufficient to make what will fill two middling-sized moulds. Ox feet may be substituted for calf’s feet; the jelly made from them is equally good, but not so delicate in colour.