358 PICKLES. are tender. Before bottling, put in a few shalots ; cover them closely when cold. TO PICKLE BEET-ROOT. Wash it perfectly clean, but do not cut off any of the fibres; put it on in plenty of boiling water with a little salt, and boil it for half an hour; if the skin will come off easily, it is done enough. Lay it upon a cloth, and with a coarse one rub off the skin. Cut it into slices, put it into ajar, and pour over it vinegar which has become cold, after having been boiled in the proportion of half an ounce of whole black pepper and a race of ginger to a quart. Cover the jar closely when cold. TO PICKLE ONIONS. Take off the outer skin of some small white onions; let them lie in salt and water for a week, changing it daily; then put them into a jar, and pour over them boiling salt and water; cover them closely, drain off the pickle when cold. Put the onions into wide-mouthed bottles, and fill them up with strong vinegar, putting in a little sliced ginger; cork the bottles closely, TO PTCKLE YOUNG ONIONS. Choose some of the small silver onion ; put them on in cold water, and when it is scalding hot, take them out with an egg slice ; peel off the skins till they look white and clear; lay them into the folds of a cloth. Boil, in a quart of vinegar, half an ounce of white pepper, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, the same of garlic, and one sliced nutmeg; put the onions into a jar, and pour over them the boiling vinegar and spices. When cold, tie leather over the jar. ANOTHER WAY TO PICKLE YOUNG ONIONS. Peel some small onions, and steep them in salt and water for two days, changing the water two or three times; then drain them, and, when perfectly dry, put them into small jars, and pour over them, when cold, white wine vinegar which has been boiled with some whole black pepper and a few cloves. HOT PICKLE. Boil, in two quarts of vinegar, a quarter of a pound of salt, two ounces of shalots or garlic, and two of ginger, one ounce of white pepper, one of yellow mustard-seed, and a