VEAL. 105 TO STEW A FILLET OF VEAL. Bone, lard, and stuff a fillet of veal; half roast, and then stew it with two quarts of white stock, a tea-spoonful of lemon pickle and one of mushroom catsup. Before serving, strain the gravy, thicken it with butter rolled in flour, add a little cayenne, salt, and some pickled mushrooms ; heat it, and pour it over the veal. Have ready two or three dozen of forcemeat balls to put round it and upon the top. Gar- nish with cut lemon. VEAL CUTLETS. Cut a neck of veal into cutlets, or take them off a leg. Season two well-beaten eggs with pounded mace, nutmeg, salt, pepper, and finely-chopped sweet marjoram, lemon thyme, and parsley; dip the cutlets into it, sift over them grated bread, and fry them in clarified butter. Serve with a white sauce, forcemeat balls, and small mushrooms. Garnish with fried parsley. ANOTHER WAT TO DRESS VEAL CUTLETS. Cut a neck of veal into thin cutlets, and beat them ; brown some butter with an onion and some parsley chopped small. Dip the cutlets into the butter, and then into finely-grated bread, seasoned with pepper and salt; broil them of a brown colour; mince the peel of half a Seville orange pared very thin ; add it and a grate of ginger to some good thickened gravy, and pour it hot upon the cutlets. ANOTHER WAY TO DRESS VEAL CUTLETS. Cut them off a leg, or from the thick part of a loin of veal; beat them a little with a rolling-pin, and fry them in butter of a light brown. Take them out of the pan, pour off the butter, and strew over them grated bread, seasoned with minced parsley and lemon thyme, grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, white pepper, and salt. Put them into a stew-pan with a piece of fresh butter, and let them fry slowly till of a good brown. Add a quarter of a pint of good gravy, and a small tea-cupful of thick cream ; let all be made very hot, frequently shaking the pan. Serve it garnished with cut lemon or forcemeat balls, mushrooms, and false eggs. False eggs are made of the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, which are rubbed smooth, and then made up with fresh butter into the form of small eggs.