217 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. EEL FIE. Clean, skin, and wash them ; take off the heads and tails, and cut the eels into pieces of two or three inches ; season them highly with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Put them into a dish, and add a quarter of a pint of white stock, or water, a glass of white wine, and a large table-spoonful of lemon pickle; put puff paste round the edge of the dish, and cover with the same. SHRIMP PIE. Boil in salt and water three pints of shrimps or prawns; pick, and season them with a table-spoonful of essence of anchovies, one of lemon pickle, some pounded pepper and mace, and a little salt. Lay some bits of butter into the bottom of the dish; put in the shrimps, with a tea-cupful of rich gravy, and a glass of white wine ; cover it with a puff paste, and bake it till the paste be done enough. OTSTER PIE. Beard a quart of fine oysters, strain the liquor, and add them to it. Cut into thin slices the kidney fat of a loin of veal; season them with white pepper, salt, mace, and grated lemon-peel; lay them into the bottom of a pie-dish ; put in the oysters and liquor, with a little more seasoning ; put over them the marrow of two bones. Lay a border of puff paste round the edge of the dish; cover it with paste, and bake it nearly three quarters of an hour. LOBSTER PATTIES. Pick the meat and red berries out of a lobster, mince them finely; add grated bread, chopped parsley, and butter ; sea- son with grated nutmeg, white pepper, and salt; add a little white stock, cream, and a table-spoonful of white wine, with a few chopped oysters ; heat it all together. Line the patty-pans with puff paste ; put into each a bit of crumb of bread about an inch square, wet the edge of the paste, and cover it with another bit; with the paste-cutter, mark it all round the rim, and pare off the paste round the edge of the patty-pan. When baked, take off the top, and with a knife take out the bread and a little of the inside paste, put in the prepared lobster, lay on the top paste, and serve them in a napkin. Another way to prepare the paste. Roll it out nearly half an inch thick, and cut it into rounds with a tin cutter,