/ 248 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. table-spoonfuls each, two well-beaten eggs, a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, half a one of pounded ginger, and enough of milk to make the whole fill a quart basin, which may be about a pint — the basin must be buttered, and a piece of buttered paper put under the cloth ; boil it for an hour, and serve with a sweet sauce. Half this quantity may be used, ANOTHER WAY TO RIAKE WHOLE RICE PUDDING. Wash in several waters a quarter of a pound of rice; put it into a sauce-pan with one ounce of fresh butter, and a suf- ficiency of water to cover it; stir it frequently till it becomes thick ; add six well-beaten eggs, a few pounded bitter almonds, a tea-spoonful of pounded cinnamon, and a glass of rum ; sweeten and boil it in a cloth for one hour. Serve it with a sweet sauce. AMERICAN SNOW BALLS. Boil some rice in milk till it be swelled and soft; pare and carefully scoop out the core of five or six good-sized apples; put into each a little grated lemon-peel and cinnamon ; place as much of the rice upon a bit of linen as will entirely cover an apple, and tie each closely. Boil them two hours, and serve them with melted butter, sweetened with sugar. AUNT MARY’S PUDDING. Of bloom raisins stoned, currants nicely cleaned, suet finely minced, bread grated, apples minced, and brown sugar, a quarter of a pound of each ; four well-beaten eggs, a tea- spoonful of pounded ginger, half a orre of salt, half a nutmeg grated, and one glass of brandy : mix all the ingredients well, and boil it in a cloth for two hours. Serve with a sauce of melted butter, a glass of wine, and some sugar. CUSTARD PUDDING. Mix with a pint of cream or milk six well-beaten eggs, two table-spoonfuls of flour, half a small nutmeg grated, or an equal quantity of pounded cinnamon, a table-spoonful of pounded loaf sugar, and a little salt; boil it in a cloth, or buttered basin that will exactly hold it, for half an hour. Or, boil in a quart of milk a bit of cinnamon, lemon-peel, and grated nutmeg ; when nearly cold, strain and mix it with the beaten yolks of six, and the whites of four eggs, and boil it half an hour. Serve with wine sauce.