157 GAME. of mushroom catsup, and one of currant jelly. When hot, add the venison cut into thin slices, heat it thoroughly, and serve with sippets of toasted bread. TO STEW A BREAST OF VENISON. Wash it well, dry, and cut it into pieces; dredge them with flour, fry them in butter, and stew them in rich beef or mutton stock ; when cold, take off all the fat, and simmer till thoroughly heated. VENISON CHOPS OR CUTLETS. Cut the neck into chops or cutlets; season with pepper and salt, and broil them; serve them with currant jelly sauce, and with or without a rich gravy. TO STEW PARTRIDGES. Truss the partridges as fowls are done for boiling; pound the livers with double the quantity of fat bacon and bread crumbs boiled in milk; add some chopped parsley, thyme, shalots, and mushrooms ; season with pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, and mace. Stuff the inside of the birds, tie them at both ends, and put them into a stew-pan lined with slices of bacon; add a quart of good stock, half a pint of white wine, two onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a few blades of mace ; let them stew gently till tender; take them out, strain and thicken the sauce with flour and butter, make it hot, and pour it over the partridges. TO STEW YOUNG PARTRIDGES. Truss them as for roasting; stuff the craws with force- meat ; lard down each side of the breast; roll a lump of but- ter in pepper and salt, and beaten mace; put it into the inside of each bird, and sew it up ; dredge them with flour, and fry them of a light brown in butter ; put them into a stew-pan, with a quart of good gravy, half a tea-cupful of white wine or of table-beer, the same of mushroom catsup, a dessert-spoonful of lemon pickle, half a tea-spoonful of mushroom powder. Cover the pan closely, and let them stew half an hour; take tliem out, and thicken the gravy with a little flour mixed in water ; boil it up, and pour it upon the partridges. Garnish the dish with forcemeat balls and hard-boiled yolks of eggs. PERDRIX AUX CHOUX. Truss the birds as for roasting; rub them slightly with