77 BEEF. ANOTHER BEEF A LA MODE. Rub well into a piece of the thick flank of ox beef, two or three ounces ot saltpetre, and half a pound of brown sugar ; let it lie for twenty-four hours, then salt it with common salt, and let it lie for ten days or a fortnight ; wash the brine from it, and fillet it firmly. Prepare a stuffing of chopped pars- ley, anchovy, mace, black and Jamaica pepper, and a little butter; make holes every here and there with a large knife, and stuff them with the above mixture. Put it into a pan that will just hold it, and fill it up with cold water ; add some whole black pepper, and cover it with a flour-and- water paste : bake it for some hours. When cold, take off the crust and all the fat, and keep the beef in the pan. BAKED BEEF. Mix together three quarters of a pound of common salt, half an ounce of saltpetre, and two ounces of sugar ; rub it well into ten pounds of a fore rib of beef; let it lie a fortnight, basting it daily ; smoke it for three weeks in a chimney where saw-dust is burnt; wash it very clean; put it into a deep earthen-pan ; cover it with a coarse flour-and-water paste, and bake it for three or four hours in an oven. HASHED BEEF. Cut the beef into small thin slices, free from fat and skin ; put the trimmings, and part of the bones, into a sauce-pan, with two large onions sliced, a little vinegar, and about a pint of stock; let it simmer for an hour, strain it, and skim off* the fat; put an ounce of hutter into a sauce-pan, and when it melts, shake in a spoonful of flour; stir it for two or three minutes, then add the strained gravy; stir it till it boil, put in a little catsup, and add the beef; let it simmer to make it hot, but it must not be allowed to boil. If the bones are to be served with the hash, score, and season them with pepper and salt; put them into a tin pan, with a little bit of butter here and tliere ; heat them in a Dutch oven, and then broil them on a gridiron to brown them w'ell, TO DRESS COLD ROAST BEEF. Cut into dice some under-done beef; dredge it with flour and fry it for three or f)ur minutes in butter, with an onion, a little parsley, and a sprig of lemon thyme minced ; put ii into a sauce-pan, with some well-seasoned gravy, a tea- spoonful of vinegar, and one of mushroom catsup; simmer it