MUTTON. 89 TO DRESS A SHOUI.DER OF MXTTTON. Bone a small shoulder of mutton ; roll it, and put it into a cloth ; put it on in boiling water. Have ready a nice white sauce; stir into it some thick cream, and add some chopped Indian pickle. Make it all hot, but take care not to let it boil, and pour it over the mutton. FRENCH MUTTON STEAKS. Cut a neck of mutton into neat steaks ; put them into a sauce-pan, with sufficient water to cover them ; add a small bunch of sweet herbs, two or three onions, and some pepper. Let them boil two minutes; take them out, and stew the trimmings of the steaks with the herbs till the gravy is suflfi- ciently strong; then strain it, and take off all the fat. Rub the steaks with a well-beaten yolk of an egg, strew over them bread crumbs mixed with finely-chopped sweet herbs, and fry them of a nice brown. Thicken the gravy with a little browned butter and flour, add a table-spoonful of vinegar, and when it is quite hot, pour it into the dish, and lay in the steaks. MUTTON CUTLETS. Cut into cutlets a pound and half of the thick part of a leg of mutton, and beat them ; mix with grated bread crumbs, some pepper, salt, and finely-chopped parsley, lemon thyme, and sweet marjoram. Rub the cutlets with melted butter, and cover them thickly with the prepared bread; fry them for ten minutes in butter ; then put them into a sauce-pan, with some good gravy thickened with flour and butter, and simmer them for ten or fifteen minutes. MOCK VENISON. Hang up a large fat loin of mutton for several days ; then bone it, and take off all the kidney fat, and the skin from the upper fat; mix together two ounces of brown sugar, and one ounce of ground black pepper. Rub it well into the mutton ; pour over it two or three wine-glasses of port wine; keep it covered with the skin ; rub and turn it daily for five days. When it is to be roasted, cover it with the skin, and paper it the same way as venison is done. Serve it with made gravy, and the same sauces as for venison. MAINTENON CHOPS. Cut a neck of mutton into chops ; beat them flat with a