CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 315 of a pound of treacle ; put it into a pan large enough to coii- tain the rest of the ingredients, and when almost cold, stir in one pound of dried and sifted flour, half a pound of coarse brown sugar, half an ounce of caraway seeds, three quarters of an ounce of pounded ginger, and the grated peel of a lemon ; mix all these well together, and let it stand till it be stiff, or till the following day; then make it into nuts, by pinching it into pieces with the finger and thumb. Bake them upon buttered tins in a quick oven. Half an ounce of coriander seeds may be added. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE GINGERBREAD NUTS. Rub half a pound of butter into two pounds of flour ; add one pound of coarse sugar, and one ounce of pounded ginger; mix all well together with one pound and two ounces of treacle ; form it into nuts, or roll it out, and cut it into round cakes ; bake them upon tins. AMERICAN GINGERBREAD. Take half a pound of fresh butter melted, one pound and a half of dried and sifted flour, the same quantity of brown sugar, a quarter of a pound of pounded ginger, nine eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, one glass of rose water, and one of white wine ; mix all these well together, and beat it for an hour; then with a spoon spread it over flat tin pans, about the thickness of a penny-piece; bake it of a light brown, and while warm, cut it into oblong pieces, and place them on end till cool, when they will be very crisp. RICH GINGERBREAD CAKES. To one pound of dried and sifted flour, allow half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, three quarters of a pound of fresh butter washed in rose water, one pound of treacle, one nut- meg grated, the weight of a nutmeg of pounded mace, and as much of pounded cinnamon, one ounce of pounded ginger, one and a half of candied orange and lemon peel, cut small, half an ounce of blanched sweet almonds, cut into long thin bits, and two well-beaten eggs. Melt the butter with the treacle, and when nearly cold, stir in the eggs and the rest of the ingredients ; mix all well together, make it into round cakes, and bake them upon tins. INDIAN GINGERBREAD. Take twelve ounces of pounded loaf sugar, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, one pound of dried flour, two ounces