108 VEAL. garnished with fried parsley. The lean part of the cold roasted veal may be substituted for the lean part of the kidney. FRXCANDEAV OF VEAL. Cot a piece of veal from the leg, the same in width and depth, and about eight inches in length. Make a hole in the under part, and fill it with forcemeat; sew it up, lard the top and sides, cover it with slices of fat bacon, and then with white paper. Put into a sauce-pan some slices of undressed mutton, three onions and one carrot sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a quart of good stock ; put in the veal, cover the pan closely, and let it stew for three hours. Take out the veal, strain the gravy, and take off all the fat; add a table- spoonful of lemon pickle, and three of white wine; boil it quick to a glaze ; keep the fricandeau over hot water, and covered, then glaze it, and serve with the rest of the glaze poured round it, and sorrel sauce in a sauce tureen. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE A FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. Cut some slices of veal, lard them all through, and put them into a sauce-pan with some white stock, and a bit of ham, one onion, a little mace and pepper. Stew them gently an hour and a half; take them out, strain the gravy, and take off all the fat; boil it up quickly, lay in the fricandeau, and stew them till the liquor becomes like a brown jelly; take care they do not burn. Scald in boiling water three handfuls of sorrel; chop it, take out the meat, and make the sorrel hot in the sauce, and serve the fricandeau upon it. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE A FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. Chop very finely one pound of the lean of a loin of veal, and half a pound of the kidney fat; season it with white i pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, the juice of one lemon, and ! a finely-shred anchovy. Soak in boiling milk, two rusks, or i biscuits, and mix it all well together; make it into balls, with a little flour. Fry them of a light brown, in butter, then stew them in some highly-seasoned gravy, dish them carefully, and strain the gravy over them. Garnish with cut lemon. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE A FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. Cut a slice of veal about an inch and a half thick; lard the top, and blanch it for a moment in boiling water; then stew It in stock, with a bunch of sweet herbs, and, when it is one enough, withdraw it from the sauce-pan, that the sauce