PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 243 raisins in festoons, or in any other form ; line it with spunge biscuit, and fill it up with a mixture of ratafia and spunge biscuit; then pour a rich custard over the whole, and let it stand for two hours, adding more custard as it soaks into the biscuit. The mould being quite full, tie a cloth over it, and boil it for about an hour. BATTER PUDDING. Beat seven eggs for fifteen or twenty minutes ; mix with six large table-spoonfuls of flour a quart of new milk, and add the eggs, with a little salt; stir it well together, and let it stand an hour or two ; lay a buttered and floured pudding- cloth into a basin, pour in the batter, tie it tightly, and boil it for an hour and a half. It may be boiled in a mould. Serve it with the following sauce : — Dredge a large table-spoonful of butter with flour ; melt it with a little water ; add a large tea-cupful of currant wine, well sweetened with brown sugar, and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs; stir it constantly till it be thoroughly heated, but take care it does not boil; pounded cinnamon, or grated nutmeg, may be added. ANOTHER WAY TO IVIAKE BATTER PUDDING. Beat the yolks of four, and the whites of three eggs, for a quarter of an hour ; mix gradually with five table-spoonfuls of flour, a pint of good milk, and half a tea-spoonful of salt; add the eggs, and beat it v/ell; boil it in a cloth for one hour. Serve it with the following sweet sauce : — Two glasses of white or sweet wine, one of water, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, and a bit of butter the size of a large walnut; stir it till it boil. MUFFIN PUDDING. Pare off the crust of two muffins, split and halve them ; put into a tin shape a layer of any sort of preserves, — apri- cot is the best, — then a layer of muffin, next one of fruit, and then the remainder of the muffin, and pour over it a pint of warm milk, in which four well-beaten eggs have been mixed. Cover the shape, and place it in a sauce-pan with a small quantity of boiling water. Keep on the cover, and let it boil twenty mintites ; turn it out, and serve it with pudding sauce. “ Light white bread, cut thin, may be substituted for the muf- fins. The pudding will be better if prepared three or four hours before it is boiled.