106 VEAL. VEAXi CUTLETS A LA V^ZTIEimE. Cut into neat cutlets the best part of a neck of veal; trim and flatten them. Chop separately half a pint of mushrooms, a few shalots, and a little parsley ; stew these over a slow fire, with a small bit of butter and a little rasped fat bacon When done, put in the cutlets, and season them well with pepper and salt, and let them stew over a slow fire till quite tender ; skim off* the fat, and add a spoonful of sauce tournee, and the yolks of three eggs beaten with a little cream; then mix in the juice of a lemon and a little cayenne. PLAIN VEAL CUTLETS. Cut the cutlets off a leg or any lean piece of veal; trim and flatten them ; dip them into a beaten egg, then into grated bread, mixed with parsley parboiled and finely minced, some pepper, salt, and a little pounded mace ; fry them in butter. With the trimmings of the meat, make a well-seasoned gravy; thicken it, and add one or two table-spoonfuls of white wine : or put a table-spoonful of butter with two spoonfuls of flour into a stew-pan, and brown it; add half a pint of boiling w'ater, a little pepper, salt, and white wine; boil it a few minutes ; pour the gravy into the dish, and lay in the cutlets. Gar- nish with cut lemon and parsley. TO COLLAR A BREAST OF VEAL. Bone it, and lay over it a thick layer of forcemeat, made with bread crumbs, chopped oysters, parsley, and grated ham, seasoned with lemon-peel, salt, wdiite pepper, and nutmeg, mixed with an egg beaten up. Roll and bind it with tape ; boil it in a cloth, and put it on in boiling water ; let it boil gently for three hours. Boil the bones with an onion, a bunch of s\yeet herbs, salt, and white pepper ; strain and thicken it with three table-spoonfuls of cream, the yolks of two eggs beaten up, and a bit of butter mixed with flour. Parboil and slice the sweetbread, dip it into an egg, and strew over it grated bread ; fry it with forcemeat balls. Serve the veal with the sauce poured over it. Garnish with the sweetbread and forcemeat balls. TO COLLAR VEAL. Bone a breast of veal, and beat it flat; cover the inside With a nice stuffing moistened with eggs ; roll it very tightly, ind It, and bake it in an oven with some weak stock in the dish. Make a rich gravy ; strain and thicken it, and pour it