99 LAMB. a little gravy, thickened with butter and flour; add a little salt and pepper; cover the pan closely, and let it stew an hour. Rub the head with the yolk of an egg beaten up, and strew over it finely-grated bread, mixed with salt and pepper and boiled minced parsley; stick bits of butter here and there, and brown it in a Dutch oven. Cut the liver into slices, and fry it in butter ; make the brains into cakes. Serve the head upon the mince, and garnish with the liver and brain cakes. LAMB DRESSED WITH RICE. Half roast a small fore-quarter of lamb ; cut it into steaks, season them with a little salt and pepper, lay them into a dish, and pour in a little water. Boil a pound of rice with a blade or two of mace; strain it, and stir in a good piece of fresh butter, and a little salt; add also the greater part of the yolks of four beaten eggs; cover the lamb with the rice, and with a feather put over it the remainder of the beaten eggs. Bake it in an oven till it has acquired a light brown colour. LAMB CHOPS. Cut a neck or loin of lamb into chops ; rub them over with the beaten yolk of an egg; dip them into grated bread, mixed with plenty of chopped parsley, and seasoned with lemon-peel, pepper, and salt; fry them a light brown in good dripping; make a sauce with the trimmings, and thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour; add a little lemon pickle and mushroom catsup. Garnish with fried parsley. They may be served with or without the gravy. TO DRESS LAMBS’ FEET. Clean, wash well, and blanch six lambs’ feet; stew them, till they become tender, in some white stock, with a slice of lean ham, one onion, some parsley, thyme, two blades of mace, a little whole white pepper, and a few mushrooms. Before serving, strain the sauce ; thicken it with flour and butter, and half a pint of cream ; boil it a quarter of an hour ; add the feet and the juice of half a small lemon. Garnish with sippets of thin toasted bread, cut into a three-cornered shape. LAMB CHOPS BROILED. Cut a loin or best end of the neck into chops; flatten them, and cut off the fat and skin ; rub the gridiron with a little fat, and broil them on a clear fire. Turn them witli steak toijgs, till quite done. Serve them hot.