FISH. 40 ANOTHER WAY TO DRESS A COD'S HEAD AND SHOULDERS. Parboil the head and shoulders; drain and put it on in some rich gravy, made with meat and fish; season it with pepper and salt, a little mace, one or two onions chopped, two table-spoonfuls of catsup. Any other seasoning may be added, such as coratch, anchovy, and lemon pickle. Care must be taken not to let it boil too long. A few mi- nutes before serving, mix smooth in a little cold water two table-spoonfuls of flour, and add it to the sauce. Haddocks may be dressed in the same manner. TO DRESS A COD’S HEAD. Parboil the head and tail with the heads of three or four haddocks, two onions cut small, some whole pepper, and salt. Take out the cod fish, and boil the stock for hiUf an hour; strain and thicken it with butter mixed with flour, a table- spoonful of catsup, and two of white wine ; cut the tail into slices, and pick off all the fish from the head; add this to the boiling sauce, and let it boil a few minutes. Some oys- ters or mussels may be added ; and it may be made with the he.ad and tail of a cod fish only. TO BAKE COD, OR HADDOCK. Take the middle piece of the fish, and skin it; make a stuffing with a little of the roe parboiled, a piece of butter, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, some grated bread crumbs, pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg; bind it with the beaten white of an egg ; put it into the fish, and sew it up. Place the whole in a tin dish, with bits of butter over the top of it, and bake it for an hour in a Dutch oven ; turn and baste it frequently. Giu-nish with fried roe, or oysters. Sauces . — Melted butter, oyster, or shrimp sauce. TO CRIIVIP COD. Cut a fresh cod into slices or steaks ; lay them for three liours in salt and water, adding a glass of vinegar ; when thev may be boiled, fried, or broiled. Slices of fresh ling may be dressed in the same manner. TO DRESS AND KEEP DRY SALTED TUSK, LXNO, OR COD FISH. Cut into square bits, or put one large piece into cold water over night; wash it clean in fresh water, and put it on to boil in cold water for one hour and a half: then cool