90 MUTTON. rolling-pin. Bruise the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and mix with it chopped sweet herbs, grated bread, nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Cover the steaks with it, and put each into a piece of well-buttered paper; broil them over a clear fire, turning them often. Serve them in the paper, or with a browned gravy. A HARICOT OF MUTTON. Trim the chops neatly, by shortening the bone. If the whole of the best end of the neck is to be used, put on the trimmings in half a pint of water, and let it simmer for fifteen minutes. Fry some sliced onions in a little butter; take them out; flour the chops, and fry them quickly, of a nice brown colour; put them into a sauce-pan with the onions, and some carrots and turnips cut into dice; strain the gravy into the frying-pan, boil it up, and add to the chops and vegetables, with two or three cloves, a little allspice and pepper. It should simmer for two hours ; and just before serving, clear off the scum, and thicken with a little flour rubbed down in cold water, and add a table-spoonful of mushroom catsup. TO STEW A SHOULDER OF MUTTON. Bone a shoulder of mutton with a sharp knife, and fill the space with the following stuffing ; — Grated bread, minced suet, parsley, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; bind with the yolks of two well-beaten eggs. Sew or fasten it with small skewers ; brown it in a frying-pan, with a bit of butter. Break the bone, put it into a sauce-pan, with some water, an onion, pepper, salt, and a bunch of parsley; let it stew till tl>e strength be extracted; strain, and thicken it with butter rolled in flour; put it, with the mutton, and a glass of port wine, into the sauce-pan; cover it closely, and let it stew gently for two hours. Before serving, add two table-spoon- fuls of mushroom catsup. Garnish with pickles. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW A SHOULDER OF MUTTON. Bone and flatten a shoulder of mutton ; sprinkle over it pepper and salt, roll it up tightly, bind it with tape, and put it into a stew-pan that will just hold it; pour over it a well- seasoned gravy made with the bones, cover the pan closely, and let it stew till tender ; before serving, take off the tape, thicken the gravy, and garnish with cut pickles.