DOMESTIC WINES, &c. 375 ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE SHRUB. To one part of lemon juice, three of Seville orange are allowed, and to every pint of juice, a pound and a half of very finely pounded loaf sugar ; these being wmll mixed, it is put into a cask, and one quart of the best rum added to each, pint of the juice; the whole to be shaken three times a-day for a fortnight, or longer, if the cask be large. It is then allowed to stand to fine for a month, or till it be sufficiently clear to bottle. The dregs may be made into excellent milk punch, by pouring warm, but not boiling, milk on them, allowing three parts of milk to one of dregs ; after being well mixed, it is allowed to stand for three days, when the clear part may be drawn off, and the thick run through a jelly-bag. X.EIVION OR ORANGE SHRUB. The rind of the lemons or oranges being grated off, they are to be squeezed, and two pounds of finely-pounded loaf sugar are to be added to every pint of the strained juice; when the sugar is quite dissolved, two pints of rum are al- lowed to every pint of sirup; the whole is to be well mixed in a cask, and allowed to stand five or six weeks, and then drawn off. WHITE CURRANT SHRUB. The currants are to be bruised and put into a bag to drip; three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar are to be dissolved in two quarts of juice, and a quart of rum being added, it is to be bottled for use. WHISKY SHRUB. Eight pounds of brown sugar is to be made into a sirup, with one quart of water, and when cold, put into a jar with two gallons of best whisky, or silent spirit, the strained juice of seven pounds of lemons and three pounds of Seville oranges, and one pint of the best porter. To be well shaken every day for a week, and then allowed to stand to fine for five woe^, when it may be bottled. LEMON BRANDY. Three quarts of brandy being put into an earthen jar that is fitted with a cover, a pound and three quarters of fine loaf sugar, the thin parings of six lemons, and the juice of twelve, are to be added; one quart of boiling milk is to be poured