149 CURRIES. CURRIE PIMEKTO. Having skinned and cut a fowl into joints, and rubbed it well with currie powder and a little cayenne, stew it gently, and till very tender, in some well-seasoned veal or mutton broth, to which some whole rice is added with the fowl; and before serving, mix in a little lemon juice and salt. KEBOBBED CURRIE. Cut into small bits, veal, or the meat of fowl, and pickled pork, and, with slices of onion, fasten them alternately upon small skewers, three or four inches long. Pound in a mortar a couple of onions, a small apple, a head of garlic, and a large table-spoonful of currie powder, with some gravy ; press it through a sieve. Fry in butter a finely-minced onion; dust the meat with turmeric ; fry it, and add the strained liquor, with two bay leaves, a little salt and pepper. Let it stew till the liquor be nearly wasted, and the flavour be very rich. Before serving, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and take out the bay leaves. CUCHON, A CHINA DISH, Is dressed much in the same manner, without pork, and not put upon skewers, but cut into very small pieces. A FISH CURRIE. After a cod-fish, haddock, or mackerel, has lain some hours in salt, cut it into pieces, and stew it in water suffi- cient to cover it, into which a large table-spoonful of currie powder has been mixed. Fry, in a quarter of a pound of butter, a shalot and two or three onions minced, a little pepper and salt. When well browned, add it to the fish, and stew all together till it be quite tender. Sprats make a good currie, but should be stewed in less water. COLD FISH CURRIE. Cut into round thick slices cold boiled salmon, soles, cod. or haddocks ; fry them in butter. In as much vinegar as will cover the fish, boil a little salt, two or three cloves of garlic, a good deal of turmeric finely pounded, three cloves, a little nutmeg, ginger, and black pepper pounded, as much as will season it highly, and pour it hot over the fish. Cover it closely, and when it has stood twenty-four hours, it will be fit for use, and should be eaten cold with boiled rice.