THE DAIRY. 417 much narrower at the top than at the bottom ; and to pre- serve the cheeses from vermin, it ought to stand on legs about two feet high, with a broad base board projecting over the legs. A ONE-MEAL CHEESE. When the milk has been brought in warm from the cow, it is put into the cheese-tub, and the rennet added to it; the quantity must depend on its strength. As soon as coagula- tion has taken place, the curd is broken and gathered. A cheese-knife is employed to cut the curd in various direc- tions ; and this being allowed to subside for a short time, is again cut by the knife more freely than before, and the ope- ration continued till the whole be reduced to small uniform particles. This business may occupy about the space of twenty minutes, after which the cheese-tub is again covered with a cloth, and allowed to remain nearly the same length of time. When the particles have subsided, the whey is laded off, the curd properly pressed by the bottom of the skimming- dish, the hands, or a semicircular board and weight adapted to the size of the tub. The cheese-knife is now employed, as before, to cut the curd, thereby promoting the free separation of the whey ; and pressure is again applied till it be all drained off. The curd is then put into two or three separate vessels, and the dairy-woman breaks it with her hands as small as possible. During this part of the process, salt is scattered over the curd, and intimately mixed with it; the proportion is generally regulated by taste — a handful of salt for every six gallons of milk, or about half an ounce to the pound, may be allowed. Having made choice of a vat, commonly made of elm, with holes in the lower part of it, proportioned to the quantity of curd, a cloth is spread over it, and the curd is put in by little and little, breaking it all the while ; and having filled the vat, heaped up, and rounded above its top, the cloth is folded over it, a board of an inch thick is laid on the vat, and the whole put into the press, the power of which ought to be applied gradually, beginning with about half a hundred-weight. When it has been an hour or two in the press, it is taken out, the cheese placed in a vessel of hot whey or water, to stand for an hour or two, to harden the skin. It is then wiped dry, covered with a clean dry cloth, again placed in the vat, which is also wiped dry, and put under the press, to remain for six or eight hours. At this period of the process, if any of the edges liappen to project, they are pared off, and 2 D