APPENDIX—N«. II. 471 PRESERVED TOMATAS. To a pint of the pulp of tomatas, allow one pound of grated sugar, and the juice of one lemon. Boil it till it will jelly. TOMATA CAKES. Weigh equal quantities of the pulp of tomatas and of grated sugar ; boil it till it becomes a stiff jelly; then pour it upon tins, and dry them in a cool oven ; and when nearly dry, cut the cakes into a variety of small shapes. They may be used at desserts, and to garnish sweet dishes. ANOTHER WAY TO PRESERVE DAMSONS. If large and fine, take oflf the skin and boil the damsons in clarified loaf-sugar, allowing equal weight of sugar and of fruit. ANOTHER TOMATA CATSUP. The tomatas should be quite ripe ; put them into a jar, and bake them in a cool oven till they become soft enough to press out the juice. To one gallon of juice, allow a quarter of a pound of whole black pepper, the same quantity of allspice, two ounces of ginger, one head of garlic, and a handful of salt. Boil all together ; take off the scum as it rises ; strain, and when quite cold bottle it, and seal the corks. TO PICKLE MUSHROOMS BROWN. Cut off the stalks of button and large mushrooms, wash them in cold water, rub them with a cloth ; skin the large ones; when perfectly clean, sprinkle salt over them, and let them stand twenty-four hours. Put them with the liquor into a stew-pan, with cloves, mace, white pepper, sliced nutmeg, ginger, and horse- radish, boil them till the liquor is nearly half reduced; pour it off, and to the quantity of vinegar that is added, allow one-third of Port wine; boil all together, and take off any scum that rises. Put them into wide-mouthed glass bottles, or small jars, and tie them over with bladder and leather. They will keep good for two years. And may be done without the cloves, ginger, and horse-radish. TO MAKE ALE POSSET. With a quart of new milk, mix the grated crumb of a penny loaf, the beaten yolk of one egg, and a bit of butter; stir it till it boils, letting it for a few minutes stew; then stir in a pint of hot ale, some sugar and nutmeg, and boil all together. Serve it in a dish. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE CURRIE. Skin the fowl, cut it into joints, and lay it in cold water for one or two hours. Cut in half a large, or two small onions, and