16 SOUPS. THICK BEEF SOUP. In eight quarts of water, boil gently for seven hours, skimming it well, eight or ten pounds of a shin or leg of beef, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; strain it; the next day, take off the fat, and cut all the gristly and sinewy parts from the bones, add them to the soup, with some leeks, onions, celery, pepper, salt, and ten or twelve ounces of Scotch barley parboiled ; boil it gently for two or three hours. This stock or jelly will keep good for weeks in cold weather. BEEF OR. MUTTON SOUP. Bon. very gently, in a closely covered sauce-pan, four quarts of water, with two table-spoonfuls of sifted bread raspings, three pounds of beef cut in small pieces, or the same quantity of mutton chops taken from the middle of the neck; season with pepper and salt; add two turnips, two carrots, two onions, and one head of celery, all cut small; let it stew with these ingredients four hours, when it will be ready to serve. RICE SCUF. Boil in four quarts of water the scrag end of a neck of veal and one pound of lean ham, till it be reduced nearly half, skimming it carefully ; season with white pepper, and two blades of mace; strain it, and boil in it till tender three quarters of a pound of rice, which has been well washed. VEAL SOUP. Skin four pounds of a knuckle of veal; break, and cut it small, put it in a stew-pan with two gallons of water; when it boils skim it, and let it simmer till reduced to two quarts ; strain, and, when required for the table, season it with white pepper, salt, a little mace, a dessert-spoonful of lemon juice, and thicken it with a large table-spoonful of flour, kneaded with an ounce of butter. SOUP MAI6RE. Cut small four ounces of sorrel, sixteen ounces of celery, and six or eight onions. Fry them in six ounces of butter, and stew them three or four hours in three quarts of w'ater. Season with pepper, salt, and a little mace, and thicken it with a large table-spoonful of flour, mixed in a tea-cupful of the soup. Beat up the yolks of two eggs in half a pint of cream, put it into the tureen, with a large slice of bread