SOUPS. 23 it closely, and let them stew till sufficiently soft to press through a tammy or hair sieve; add the pulp to as much well-seasoned stock as will make it of the thickness of rich cream, and boil it for twenty or thirty minutes. ANOTHER CARROT SOUP. In three quarts and a half of well-seasoned stock, boil the red part of six or seven large carrots, four onions sliced, tw^o heads of celery, and three turnips. When quite soft, pulp it through a sieve, add a bit of butter and a tea-spoonful of sugar, and let it boil a quarter of an hour before serving. HOTCH POTCH. Cut in dice a good quantity of young turnips and carrots, and with one or two lettuces cut very small, the tops of some cauliflower, and a pint of full-grown peas ; boil them gently in four quarts of boiling water for two hours ; cut in neat chops a loin, or the best end of a neck of mutton, add them to the vegetables, with salt, pepper, and some onions cut small; let them boil an hour and a half, then add three pints of green peas, and boil half an hour longer, when it is ready to serve. ANOTHER HOTCH POTCH. Put on, in three quarts of water, a small bit of the neck of mutton, or any scraps, one quart of carrots and turnips when cut in dice, and some salt ; boil them gently for an hour, then add a little cauliflower, lettuce, parsley, and onions cut small; boil a quart of full-grown peas in another sauce-pan, till sufficiently tender to press through a sieve; add it to the soup, taking out the bits of mutton, with three pints of young peas, and some nice mutton chops, and let it all boil till they are done enough. If the soup be too thick, a little before serving pour in some boiling water. WINTER HOTCH POTCH. Boil in two quarts of water, for two hours or more, if not perfectly tender, one pound of peas wdth half an ounce of butter, or a little fat; pulp them through a sieve ; put on, in a separate sauce-pan, a gallon of water, three pounds of mutton chops, some salt and pepper, a pound and a half of carrots, the same of turnips, cut small; boil till the vegetables become tender, which may be in about two hours ; then add the strained liquor, and let it boil a quarter of an hour.