PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 253 gether, with the beaten yolks of five eggs, to a stiff paste, and with floured hands roll it into twelve or thirteen small puddings in the form of sausages ; fry them gently in butter till of a nice brown ; roll them well in the frying-pan. Serve with pounded loaf sugar strewed over them, and with a sweet sauce. They may be boiled. PUimiNG IN HASTE. Beat separately the yolks and whites of four eggs, and with the yolks a little brown sugar, a tea-cupful of good milk, two table-spoonfuls of flour, one of rum or sweet wine ; and when they are well mixed, add the beaten whites. Fry it in butter in a broad sauce-pan ; brown the upper side before the fire. Serve with pounded loaf sugar strewed over, and sweet sauce. OXFORD PUDDINGS. Half a pound of sifted bread crumbs, the same quantity of j suet and of currants finely minced, a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, some brown sugar and a little salt, a table-spoonful of rose water, one of brandy or rum ; make it into a stiff paste with cream, and the beaten yolks of two eggs ; roll it into balls, and fry. POINT DE JOUR FRITTERS. Mix with two handfuls of flour a glass of sweet wine, a table-spoonful of brandy, and warm milk, sufficient to make it into a paste ; add the w'ell-beaten whites of four eggs, a little minced citron, candied orange-peel or currants ; beat it well together, and drop it through a wide tin funnel, into boiling lard. Serve with pounded loaf sugar strewed over them. SWEETMEAT FRITTERS. Cut small any sort of candied fruit, and heat it with a bit of fresh butter, some good milk, and a little grated lemon- peel ; when quite hot, stir in enough of flour to make it into a stiff paste ; take it off the fire, and work in eight or ten eggs, two at a time ; when cold, form the fritters, and fry, and serve them with pounded loaf sugar strewed over them. APPLE FRITTERS. Stew some apples cut small, together with a little water, sugar, lemon-peel, and cinnamon; when soft, add a little white ^7ine, the juice of half a lemon, and a bit of fresh but- ter ; when cold, mix them with a batter as for Tunbrid'm 8