410 THE DAIRY. The diseases of cattle may be divided into three classes. The first proceeds from feeding too greedily on clover or common grass, particularly in the fall of the year. The re- medy usually employed is the probang, a flexible instrument, which being passed into the stomach, the confined air rushes out; when this is not at hand, three small canes, each six feet long, are bound together with waxed packthread, and a smooth ball of wood, about the size of a pigeon’s egg, fixed at the end ; in order to pass it down the throat, an assistant must lay hold of the nostrils, and keep out the head as nearly as possible in a line with the throat. The food that is in consequence thrown up, must be removed from the mouth ; after which, the animal should be turned out into bare pas- ture, or get twice a-day, for three days, half a pint of mild ale, with one race of ginger grated into it. But in the first stage of the complaint, a table-spoonful of hartshorn, mixed with a pint of train-oil, will generally effect a cure. The diseases of the second class proceed from derange- ment of the digestive system, and occur chiefly late in winter or in spring. They are moor-ill, yellows, red-water, flatulent colic, scouring, tail-rot, joint-fallen, &c., for which the fol- lowing opening medicine is administered : — Mix, for one drench, of common salt four ounces, Barbadoes aloes half an ounce, ginger one drachm, water one quart, and anodyne carminative tincture two ounces, or a glass of gin. Having administered in the morning the opening medicine, for scouring or for tail-rot, the following cordial may be given in the evening : — Take of powdered catechu two drachms, fresh powdered allspice two drachms, fresh-powdered cara- ways half an ounce, good strong beer or ale half a pint, table-beer or water half a pint; let the ingredients be sim- mered for a few miniites in the table-beer or w^ater, and let the strong beer be added at the time the drench is given. The third class depends on repletion of the blood-vessels, and prevails most in summer; the symptoms of fever are, quick breathing, hot horns and ears, &c. The remedies to be employed are copious bleeding, that is, till the animal becomes faint (a young and healthy cow will generally bear the loss of two gallons of blood), opening medicine, and putting the animal on short or bare pasture. The only application necessary for swollen udder, or swol- len joints, is neat’s feet oil, or olive oil; when the swelling is considerable, fomentation, with hot water having a little grease in it, may be of use. The best remedy for sore teats is rubbing them with hog’s lard.