CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 277 add a table-spoonful of laurel water, and a little sugar; sweeten a quart of new milk, boil it with a little cinnamon, and half the peel of a lemon ; pick out the cinnamon and lemon, and pour the boiling milk upon the arrow-root, stir- ring it all the time. Put it into a mould, and turn it out the following day. DUTCH BLANCMANGE. Wash one ounce and a half of isinglass, pour a pint and a half of boiling water over it, let it stand for an hour, and then boil it for twenty minutes ; strain, and when it is nearly cold, add the beaten yolks of six eggs, a pint of Lisbon wine, the peel of one, and juice of two lemons, with a stick of cinnamon, and sweeten with pounded loaf sugar ; stir it over the fire till it begin to simmer, but do not allow it to boil; pick out the peel and cinnamon, pour it into a basin, stir it till nearly cold, and put it into a shape. CUSTARD. Sweeten a quart of thin cream, or good milk, with pounded loaf sugar ; boil it with a bit of cinnamon, and half the peel of a lemon ; strain it, and when a little cooled, mix it gradually with the well-beaten yolks of ten eggs ; stir it over a slow fire till it be pretty thick, pour it into a basin, and add a table- spoonful of rose water, and one of brandy ; keep stirring it every now and then till cold, and then put it into glasses, cups or a dish. It may be made the day before it is used. ALMOND CUSTARD. Blanch and pound, with two table-spoonfuls of orange- flower water, a quarter of a pound of almonds ; add rather more than a pint of cream, and the well-beaten yolks of six eggs; sweeten w'ith pounded loaf sugar, and stir it over a slow fire till it thickens ; but do not allow it boil. Serve it in a glass dish, or cups, and put over the top sifted loaf sugar. ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE ALMOND CUSTARD. With a quart of thin cream, mix four ounces of pounded loaf sugar, two ounces of sweet, and one of bitter almonds finely pounded, and a stick of cinnamon ; stir till it boils, and then till nearly cold; pick out the cinnamon, and add the beaten yolks of eight eggs, and of rose water and of brandy two table-spoonfuls each ; stir it again over the fire till it thickens, but do not allow it to boil. Serve in custard glasses.