173 GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. SAUCE PIQUANTE. Put a little chopped shalot and a few spoonfuls of gravy into a sauce-pan ; let it boil till the gravy be nearly boiled away, but not burned to the bottom of the sauce-pan ; add as much braise as may be required for the sauce, season with pepper and salt, boil it a few minutes, then add a little lemon juice, sugar, and a tea-spoonful of garlic vinegar. N.B. Braise is an onion stuck with cloves, and boiled till tender in gravy and white wine. WHITE ITALIAN SAUCE. Peel some mushrooms, and throw them into a little water and lemon juice, to keep them white. Put into a stew-pan two-thirds of sauce tournee, and one-third of good veal stock, two table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped mushrooms, and half a table-spoonful of washed and chopped shalots ; let it boil till well flavoured, and then serve it. The mushrooms should be as white as possible. WHITE SHARP SAUCE. Boil with a little tarragon, or tarragon vinegar, if the tar- ragon is not to be had, four table-spoonfuls of white wine vinegar, and about twenty peppercorns ; reduce this to one- fourth, and add it to six table-spoonfuls of sauce tournee, and two of good stock ; boil and strain it; put it again on the fire, and thicken it witli the beaten yolks of two eggs, a small bit of butter, a little salt and cayenne. Just before serving, stir in a spoonful of cream. WHITE SAUCE FOR FISH. Four anchovies chopped, two glasses of white wine, a large one of vinegar, an onion stuck with three cloves, and cut into quarters; let all these simmer till the anchovies dissolve ; strain it, and add a quarter of a pound of butter kneaded in a table-spoonful of flour. When it has melted, stir in gradually, one way, half a pint of cream, taking care that it do not boil \Vhen thoroughly heated, serve in a sauce-tureen. PARSLEY AND BUTTER. Pick and wash clean a large bunch of parsley; tie it up, and boil it for a few minutes in water ; drain and chop it very finely^ add to it some melted butter, and make it quite hot. It is bbtter to be made thick with parsley. Fennel sauce may be made in the same way.