BEEF 72 a little flour, then add the minced meat, and keep beating it with a beater till of a nice brown colour. Have ready some highly-seasoned beef gravy, which, with the minced collops, put into a sauce-pan, and let it stew half an hour; and, just before serving, put a table-spoonful of mushroom catsup, and, if liked, some green pickles. Beef-suet is as often used as butter to fry the collops in. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE MINCED COLLOPS. Mxnce any piece of lean or tender beef very finely, with one or two onions previously cut small and parboiled ; season with pepper and salt; brown in a sauce-pan a table-spoonful of butter ; add the minced meat; beat it with a beater till it is of a light brown colour, then dust in a little flour, and add about half a pint of gravy or water, with half a table-spoon- ful of vinegar. Cover the sauce-pan closely, and let it stew gently for half an hour. A little before serving, add a table- spoonful of mushroom catsup. The gravy may be made with the parings and stringy parts of the beef. When the flavour of onions is disliked, boil some whole small onions, and garnish the dish with them. Minced collops may be kept some weeks packed closely into a jar, after being fried without any onions, and covered with clarified butter. When to be dressed, follow the above directions. SHORT, OR SPICED BEEF. TO BE EATEN COLD. Hang up ten or twelve pounds of the middle part of a brisket of beef for three or four days; then rub well into it three ounces of finely-powdered saltpetre, and if spice is ap- proved of, one ounce of allspice, and half an ounce of black pepper ; let it stand all night, then salt it with three pounds of well-pounded hay salt, and half a pound of treacle, in which let it remain ten days, rubbing it daily. When it is to be boiled, sew it closely in a cloth; let the water only simmer, upon no account allowing it to boil, for nine hours over a slow fire, or upon a stove. When taken out of the water, place two sticks across the pot, and let the beef stand over the steam for half an hour, turning it from side to side; then press it with a heavy weight. It must not be taken out of the cloth till perfectly cold. TO SALT NEATS’ TONGUES. Salt two tongues, and turn them every day for four or five days; then rub them with two ounces of common salt*