46 FISH. a little cayenne, black pepper, and salt, the juice of a lemon, half the peel, a table-spoonful of catsup, half a pint of white wine, and two quarts of water; simmer them for an hour, strain, and put to it the meat of a lobster or crab minced, and forcemeat balls; thicken it with half a pint of cream, the yolks of three beaten eggs, and a bit of butter kneaded in flour. Have ready boiled three haddocks skinned and without their heads, pour the sauce over them in a deep dish. Make the forcemeat balls of a small boiled haddock finely minced, grated bread crumbs, butter, pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and parsley ; bind them with the whites of two eggs beaten ; and fry them in fresh lard of a light brown. BROWN FISH AND SAUCE. Wash them clean, take off the heads, skin and cut them into two or three pieces; boil the heads and fins in water, with a large onion cut small, for half an hour; strain it, and add some brown gravy soup ; brown four ounces of butter kneaded well with two table-spoonfuls of flour; add it to the liquor, with the peel of half a lemon, two blades of mace, some salt and pepper. Boil all these, and having put in the pieces of fish, let them boil fifteen minutes, and add, just before dishing, a glass of white wdne, and a little mushroom catsup and soy. Pick out the lemon-peel and mace. ANOTHER FISH AND SAUCE WITH WHITE SAUCE. Prepare the fish as in the receipt for brown fish and sauce, substituting veal broth for the gravy soup, and adding minced parsley with the onions ; omit the catsup and soy, and do not brown the butter. It will improve the fish to soak them for half an hour in sour beer, or vinegar and water ; more particularly whitings, which may be dressed as the haddocks, and the sauce enriched by just adding, before serving, two yolks of eggs beat up in three spoonfuls of cream, after which the sauce must not be allowed to boil. The stock is frequently made without meat. TO CLEAN AND PREPARE HADDOCKS FOR KEEPING. Scrape them, and take out the entrails ; cut them open considerably below the vent, so that the blood may be en- tirely scraped from the back bone ; cut off' the points of the tails, take out the eyes and gills, wash the fish, and put some salt into the bodies; let them lie till next day, then place tliem upon a fish hake, or a wooden rod put througli the