406 POULTRY. under shelter, if otherwise; a wide and flat dish of water, often to be renewed, standing at hand ; barley, or any meal, the first food. In rainy weather particularly, it is useful to clip the tails of the ducklings, and the surrounding down beneath, that they may not draggle and weaken themselves. The duck should be cooped at a distance from any other; their confinement to the coop need seldom extend to a fort- night. Oats, whole or bruised, are the standard fattening material for ducks and geese, to which may be added pease- meal, as it may be required; and if they are confined, the house-wash may be mixed with their food. They are very fond of acorns, and will get fat on them alone. THE GOOSE. The best geese in England are probably to be found on the borders of Suffolk and Norfolk, and in Berkshire. The foreign varieties are kept only for ornament. Their treat- ment is similar to that of ducks. Some cooling greens, clivers, or the like, may be mixed with their first food, namely, bar- ley meal, bruised oats, or fine pollards. Hemlock, or deadly nightshade, should be removed from the range of young geese; and both old and young are often killed by swallow- ing slips of yew after they are able to frequent the pond. The young geese will obtain their living, and few people favour- ably situated allow them any thing more excepting the vege- table produce of the garden ; but to have fine geese, a little solid corn or pulse may be given morning and evening. Equal quantities of the meal of rye and pulse, mixed with skimmed- milk, form an excellent feeding article for geese and ducks. PIGEONS. The proper place for the pigeon-house, or cot, is the poul- try-yard ; it should have a south-west aspect. The common barred dovecot is well adapted to every situation, and pigeons do well near dwellings, stables, bakehouses, or such offices. Its situation will necessarily depend on convenience. One general rule must, however, be observed, that every pair of pigeons have two holes or rooms to nest in. Cleanliness is one of the first and most important considerations. They will thrive the better if cleaned daily and thoroughly once a-week — the floor covered with sifted gravel often renewed. They are exceedingly fond of water, and when confined in a room should have a pan of water, often renewed, as a bath; and to take their attention from the garden, and to prevent their picking the mortar from buildings, they should be pro-