79 BEEF. thyme, and parsley, seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg Put it down to roast while hot, baste it well with butter, froth it up, and serve it with melted butter and vinegar; of with gravy in the dish, and currant jClIy in a sauce-tureen. To hash it, follow the directions given for hare. TO BOIL TRIPE. Clean it extremely well, and take off the fat; let it lie a night in salt and water; again wash it well, and let it lie in milk and water for the same length of time; then cut it into small pieces, roll and tie them with thread; put them, with a clean-washed marrow-bone, into a linen bag ; tie it closely, and put it into a stew-pan that has a cover to fit quite closely; fill it up with water, and let it boil gently for six hours. Take the tripe out of the bag, put it into a jar, and pour over it the liquor in which it was boiled. When to be dressed, boil some whole small onions in a part of the liquor, add a little salt, then put in the tripe, and heat it thoroughly. Or it may be fried in butter; fricasseed, or stewed in a brown sauce. Instead of being boiled in a bag, the tripe may be put, with some salt and whole pepper, into a stoneware jar, which must have a piece of linen tied over it, and a plate laid upon the top. The pot should always be kept full of boiling water, taking care that it do not boil into the jar. TO ROAST TRIPE. Cut the tripe into two oblong pieces, make a forcemeat of bread crumbs and chopped parsley, seasoned with pepper and salt; bind it with the yolks of two eggs ; spread it upon the fat side of the tripe, and lay on the ot^lier fat side; then roll it very tightly, and tie it with packthread. Roast, and baste it with butter ; it will take one hour, or one hour and a half. Serve it with melted butter, into which put a table- spoonful of catsup and one of lemon pickle. TO FRY TRIPE. Cut it irito bits three or four inches square ; make a batter, thicker than for pancakes, of three eggs beaten up with flour and milk, a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; dip in the tripe, and fry it in butter, or fresh dripping, of a light brown colour, serve it garnished with parsley. Sauce : — Melted butter With lemon pickle in it.