78 BEEF. for half an hour. Serve it with poached eggs laid upon the top. FRICANDEUJLNS. Mince about two pounds of lender lean beef, and three quarters of a pound of fresh suet; then pound it till it be as smooth as a paste, and carefully pick out all the threads and sinews; add four well-beaten eggs, half a pint of rich cream, and as much grated and sifted bread as will make it sufficiently consistent to form into rolls resembling corks, and season it with salt, black and Jamaica pepper. Boil the corks in some good stock, or in boiling water. BEEF GOBBETS. Cut a piece of beef into small bits ; season them with pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg, some parsley and shalot finely chopped; fry them brown in butter, and stew them till tender in a rich brown gravy, adding a table- spoonful of vinegar and one of port wine. Put thickly over them grated bread, seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little butter, and brown them with a salamander. TO DRESS THE INSIDE OF A COLD SIRLOIN OF BEEF. I Cut off the meat, with a little of the fat, into strips three inches long and half an inch thick ; season with pepper and salt, dredge them with flour, and fry them brown in butter ; then simmer them in a rich brown gravy ; add of mushroom catsup, onion, and shalot vinegar, a table-spoonful each Garnish with fried parsley. ANOTHER WAY TO DRESS THE INSIDE OF A COLD SIRLOIN OF BEEF. Cut off entire the inside of a large sirloin of beef; brown it all over in a stew-pan, then add a quart of water, half a pint of port wine, a tea-cupful of strong beer, two table- | spoonfuls of vinegar, some pepper, salt, and a large onion, I finely minced ; cover the pan closely, and let it stew till the I beef be very tender. Garnish with pickles. I TO ROAST BEEF HEART. Wash it well, and clean all the blood carefully from the pipes , parboil it ten or fifteen minutes in boiling water ; driji tlie water from it; put in a stuffing which has been made of i) rea crumbs, minced suet or butter, sweet marjoram, lemon l