161 GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. cloves; pound and mix altogether in a bottle. A little of each kind of spice should be well dried, pounded, and kept separately in small bottles, which should be labelled. CAYENNE PEPPER. Whe.n perfectly ripe, take out the seeds of the capsicums, dry the pods, pull them into bits, and with the seeds, pound them to a fine powder; and to three ounces of cayenne, add one of white pepper. Mix them thoroughly; bottle, and cork it tightly. MUSHROOIYC POWDER. Pick, skin, and clean half a peck of mushrooms ; throw them into cold water, drain, and put them into a sauce-pan, with two spoonfuls of white pepper, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and five cloves pounded; simmer and shake them till the liquor is wasted away, but be careful they do not burn; lay them upon dishes, and put them into a cool oven to dry; then beat them to a powder, put it into wide- mouthed bottles, and tie leather over the corks; keep them in a dry place. Or, skin and wipe with flannel some small fresh-gathered mushrooms, lay them upon a tin, and dry them in a moderate oven, or in a Dutch oven; put them into small paper bags, and hang them near the kitchen fire, and, when required for use, rub them to a powder. RAGOUT POWDER. Two ounces of truffles, two of dried mushrooms, the peel of a lemon, and the same of a Seville orange grated, half a grated nutmeg, half an ounce of mace, the same of black pepper, and one drachm of cayenne ; dry them all well be- fore the fire, pound them to a fine powder, add one ounce of salt, sift the powder through a sieve, and keep it in a bottle for use. FRIED BREAD CRUMBS. Put into a frying-pan or sauce-pan a piece of butter ; oil, and skim it, pour it from the sediment, return it to the pan, throw in two or three spoonfuls of grated bread; keep stir- ring them constantly till of a beautiful yellow brown, and drain them before the fire. GZJIZE, BROWN AND WHITE. A BROWN glaze is made of stock clear and pale in the colour ; should it not be sufficiently clear, it must be made »o