MISCELLANY. 400 PASTE. Rub two table-spoonfuls of flour quite smooth in one pint of water ; put it on the fire, and stir it constantly till it be- come clear, which it may be after boiling for about ten minutes. A stronger and more delicate paste may be made of starch, by boiling it for a few minutes after it has been prepared as for starching muslin. X.A TIRE, OR LONDON CANDY. Rub some fresh butter over the bottom and sides of a brass-pan, and boil in it two quarts of good treacle, with a tea-spoonful of cinnamon, and a dessert-spoonful of ginger, the grated peel and juice of one or two lemons — a glass of ram may be added; stir it all the time it is boiling; in ten minutes or so, drop a little upon a buttered plate, and if it harden, pour it from the pan over the bottom of buttered plates ; as soon as it cools sufficiently to be handled safely, pull it out with a machine made for the purpose, or rub the hands with butter, and draw it out at arm’s-length, then fold it, touching it as lightly as possible with the fingers ; and so continue to work it till it hardens, and becomes of a light colour; it is then pulled out as quickly as possible into small sticks, which must be cut with a buttered knife on a table or board dusted with flour : narrow strips of whity-brown paper should be prepared to twist round the sticks as they are cut. The plates should also be buttered before the boiling com- mences, and every thing had in readiness ; as no time is to be lost after the treacle is boiled. CAPTAIN HALL’S SANDWICHES FOR TRAVELLERS. Spread butter, very thinly, upon the upper part of a stale loaf of bread cut very smooth, and then cut off the slice ; now cut off another thin slice, but spread it with butter on the under side, without which precaution the two slices of bread will not fit one another. Next take some cold beef, or ham, and cut it into very minute particles. Sprinkle these thickly over the butter, and, having added a little mustard, put the slices face to face, and press them together. Lastly, cut the whole into four equal portions, each of which is to be wrapped in a separate piece of paper.