PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 233 butter beaten to a cream, a quarter of a pound of sugar, half a pint of cream, a glass of brandy or white wine, two table- spoonfuls of orange-flower water ; mix all these ingredients Well together, and bake it in a dish lined with puff paste ; turn it out to serve, and strew pounded sugar over the top. GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. Scald a quart of gooseberries, and when tender, rub them through a sieve ; sweeten them well with brown sugar; melt six ounces of butter in a quarter of a pint of cream ; beat the yolks of eight, and the whites of four eggs; grate half the peel of a lemon : mix all M'^ell together, adding one spoonful of orange-flower water, and bake it in a dish lined with puft paste. Put grated sugar over it before serving. A PUDDING. Sweeten a pint and a half of cream, and boil it with the peel of a small lemon ; cut the crumb of a twopenny roll, put it into the cream, and boil it for eight minutes, stirring constantly ; when thick, add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter beaten to a cream, a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, and four well-beaten eggs ; beat it all well together for some minutes. It may be baked or boiled. A VOLDRON. Melt eleven ounces of fresh butter in a brass pan, and when quite hot, add the same quantity of pounded loaf sugar, and eight well-beaten eggs ; stir constantly for six or eight minutes, and put it into a dish ; the following day, mix with it a wine glass of orange-flower water ; of citron, orange, and lemon-peel, cut fine, half a pound; butter a pudding dish, and lay into the bottom a sheet of white paper buttered, then put in the voldron, and bake it for twenty minutes; turn it out, ornament it with cut citron and orange-peel, and ser\ e it in a silver or glass dish. TRANSPARENT PUDDING. Put into a sauce-pan half a pound of fresh butter, the same quantity of pounded loaf sugar, and eight well-beaten eggs ; stir it over the fire till of the thickness of buttered eggs, put it into a basin to cool, and mix with it a tea-spoon- ful of grated nutmeg ; bake it in a dish lined with puff paste. Before serving, grate loaf sugar over the top.