U2 KITCHEN GARDEN. straw bands for blanching, leaving only the top free, but a dry day must be selected for the purpose ; at the same time a hillock of earth is formed around each plant to the height of a foot or eighteen inches, and this is smoothed on the surface, that the rain may run off, and not fall into the centre of the plants. As they advance in growth, additional bands of straw are added, and the earth is raised higher. They will be ready for use in two months after the commencement of the blanching. In severe frost, the tops are covered with hauin or long litter. LETTUCE. Of each of the two kinds of lettuce, the coss, also called tlie Roman and ice, and the cabbage lettuce, there are many varieties. Of the coss lettuces, the Egyptian green, the white coss or Versailles, and the royal cape lettuce, are esteemed ; of the cabbage lettuces, the imperial and grand admiral, or ad- miral. The large Roman and the Cilicia lettuces are those chiefly used in soups. The seed is sown broadcast, and merely raked into the ground. A small sowing may be made in January, the seedlings being transplanted in ^larch. A considerable crop is sown in the end of February, and the principal sowing is in March and April. A part of each crop should be regularly transplanted, to come in season imme- diately after tliose left in the seed-bed; they are fittest for transplanting when they have four or six leaves ; and they are placed from ten to fifteen inches apart, according to the size they are likely to attain. To forward the cabbaging of coss lettuce, the leaves may be tied together in the manner prac- tised with endive. If the winter be not very severe, lettuces will stand without much injury, close by the foot of a south wall, and be fit for use in January, February, and March. ENDIVE. The green curled-leaved and the white curled-leaved are the best kinds ; the greeu curled-leaved, being the most hardy, is used for the latest crops. The seed, which must be scat- tered thinly, is sgwn some time between the middle of May and middle of June ; another sowing is made in July. When the seedlings are three or four inches high, they are trans- planted into a well-prepared bed of rich soil, in rows a foot asunder, at the distance of ten inches from each other in the row. In dry weather, watering is necessary. The blanch- ing must next be commenced ; it is accomplished, when the plants are perfectly dry, by tying up the heads with strands