274 CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. boils again, strain it through a sieve ; beat the curd in a basin, together with about half an ounce of butter, two table- spoonfuls of orange-flower water, and pounded sugar suffi- cient to sweeten it. Put it into a mould for two hours before it is sent to table. White wine, sugar, and cream, may be mixed together, and poured round the curd, or served in a sauce-tureen. KERRY BUTTTERIVIILK. Put six quarts of buttermilk into a cheese-cloth, hang it in a cool place, and let the whey drip from it for two or three days ; when it is rather thick, put it into a basin, sweeten it with pounded loaf sugar, and add a glass of brandy, or of sweet wine, and as much raspberry jam, or sirup, as will co- lour and give it an agreeable flavour. Whisk it well together, and serve it in a glass dish. HATTERBB KIT. Make two quarts of new milk scalding hot, and pour it quickly upon four quarts of fresh-made buttermilk, after which it must not be stirred; let it remain till cold and firm, then take off the top part, drain it in a hair-sieve, and put it into a shape for half an hour. It is eaten with cream, served in a separate dish. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE MATTERED KIT. Put into the dish it is to be served in, one-third of cream with two-thirds of buttermilk, add a little pounded loaf sugar, and beat it well together. Strew over it a little pounded cinnamon, and let it stand for'three or four hours. ALMOND CREAM. Blanch and pound to a paste, with rose water, six ounces of almonds ; mix them with a pint and a half of cream which has been boiled with the peel of a small lemon ; add two well-beaten eggs, and stir the whole over the fire till it be thick, taking care not to allow it to boil; sweeten it, and when nearly cold, stir in a table-spoonful of orange-flower or rose water. RASPBERRY ICED CREAM. Mix a table-spoonful of pounded loaf sugar, a large wooden- spoonful of raspberry jelly, and a little cochineal, to heighten the colour, with the juice of a large lemon, and a pint and a half of cream ; strain, and put it into the freeezing-pot; cover