411 THE DAIRY. When a cow chokes upon a turnip, pour down its throat salt and water; if that will not do, use a hornful of salt and melted grease, such as hog’s lard, or any kind of common grease; warm oil and salt would probably have the same effect. When a calf seems indisposed and loose in the bowels, a little powdered chalk may be added to its milk; or boil a large table-spoonful of potato flour in each meal of milk, to bring it to the consistence of middling cream. When costive, the following laxative may be given ; and when it scours, the following cordial will be found effectual; — IJIXATIVIU Of common salt, from half an ounce to one ounce, aloes one drachm, soda one drachm, ginger half a drachm, water half a pint, and gin a table-spoonful, well mixed together. CORDIAL. Caraway seeds, recently powdered, half an ounce, ginger half a drachm, carbonate of soda one drachm, water eight ounces, and brandy or gin one ounce, mixed well. CALVES Should be taken from the cow immediately, and whether to be reared or fatted, are best fed entirely on milk; but if it be scarce, they may get milk-porridge, or turnips boiled to a mash, and mixed with two pints of milk at each meal, which should be given three times a-day the first month, twice the second, and once the third. When the calf is to be fed for the table, it should have as much milk, warm from the cow (the last-drawn, to have extremely fine veal), as it will take three times a-day. When it is five weeks old, it should be bled, and again a week after ; in a few days more, it may be killed. Some persons consider bleeding unneces- sary. BUTTER. In the production of good butter, more depends on ma- nagement than on the quality of the cow, or the richness of its food. When dairying is conducted on a great scale, the horizontal, commonly called the barrel-churn, is the best; and on a small scale, the patent box-churn will be found most eligible; the vertical, or pump-churn, is well adapted to the operation of making butter from the produce of a few cows only. Milk is not at the best till about four months