POULTRY. 142 them with flour, moisten them with gravy, and boil them till the sauce is thick. Add a little salt just before serving, and, if liked, a little sugar. TO FRICASSEE A CHICKEN WITH WHITE SAUCE. Cut the chicken into joints, parboil it with the liver and gizzard, and take off the skin ; thicken a little of the liquor with a bit of butter mixed with flour ; heat it, and put in the chicken, with a little white pepper, grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, a blade of mace, and some salt; boil it for about twenty minutes, take it off the fire, pick out the lemon-peel and mace, and stir in gradually half a pint of cream with the yolk of two well-beaten eggs, make it hot, but after adding the cream do not let it boil. The liver and gizzard may be dressed with it, or scored, seasoned with pepper, cayenne, and salt, broiled and served with the fricassee. A cold chicken or fowl may be dressed in this way, with a little white stock for sauce; or they may be dressed with a little brown sauce, browning some butter and flour, adding with the liquor a minced onion, a little catsup, black pepper, nutmeg, salt, and a bit of lemon-peel, which last take out be- fore serving. TO FRICASSEE CHICKENS. When well washed, cut the chickens into joints, scald, and take off the skin ; put them into a stew-pan, with an onion cut small, a bunch of parsley, a little thyme, lemon-peel, and grated nutmeg, a slice of ham, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut; let them stew a quarter of an hour, add some white stock thickened with ‘flour and butter ; take out the parsley, ham, thyme, and lemon-peel; and a little before serving, beat up the yolks of three eggs in half a pint of cream, and stir it in gradually. ANOTHER WAY TO FRICASSEE CHICKENS. Put into a stew-pan half a pint of water, three ounces of butter, a table-spoonful of flour, some salt, and white pepper; stir all together till it is hot, and add a chicken cut into joints and skinned, with one or two onions minced, and a blade of mace. Stew it for an hour ; and a little before serving, add the yolks of two eggs beaten up with two table-spoonfuls of cream ; stir it in gradually, taking care it does not boil. BROILED OR GRILLED CHICKENS. Pick and singe them nicely, wash them clean, and dry