POULTRY. 140 made of the bones boiled in a little water, and which has been strained and thickened with a piece of butter, mixed with flour, a little milk, and the yolk of an egg beaten up and seasoned with white pepper and salt; serve the broiled back upon the mince, and the legs at each end. TO SOUSE A FOWL. Cut into joints a hot roasted fowl; sprinkle over it of pep- per and salt a dessert-spoonful each, and two or three onions cut small; pour on it nearly a pint of boiling water, cover it with another dish, and let it stand till cold. A cold fowl may be prepared in the same way, and put into a sauce-pan for a few minutes to heat. POUI.ET A ImA FRANCAISE. . s Cut a chicken up the back ; fill it with thick slices of fat bacon, and put a slice of bread over the bacon, sew it up, and tie it round with a bit of packthread, and then roast it. CHICKEN A XA CREME. Half roast a chicken ; while it is hot, take out the entire breast, leaving perfectly whole the pinions, legs, and skin ; boil in milk two ounces of bread crumbs and an ounce of bacon very finely chopped, and some chopped parsley ; season the meat of the breast of the chicken with pepper, salt, nut- meg, and a little grated lemon-peel; pound it with the boiled bread crumbs, and add an egg beaten up ; stuff it so as to represent a whole chicken, sift over it grated bread, and heat it thoroughly in the following sauce : — A pint of new milk, one ounce of butter, kneaded in flour, a slice of bacon not very fat, two shalots, a little salt and white pepper; put the chicken into a dish, brown it with a salamander, and strain the sauce over it. CAPONS A lA TURQUE. Pick, and clean very nicely, two fine capons ; wash the inside perfectly clean with warm water, and let them soak in warm water for a quarter of an hour ; dry them well, and put into them some rice which has been boiled till soft in some rich well-seasoned stock ; truss, and cover them with layers of bacon, wrap them in paper, and roast them for an hour by a hanmng-jack ; serve them, putting all round the dish a part of tne rice which was prepared for the stuffing, and pour over the fowls a veloutee sauce. One fine large fowl may be dressed in this manner.