347 PRESERVES. ELDER ROB. Gather the elderberries when quite ripe ; put them into a stone jar, tie a bladder or paper over the top, and place the jar in a pan of water; let it boil till the berries are very soft; strain them through a coarse cloth, and to every pint of juice allow half a pound of good brown sugar; put it into a pre- serving-pan, stir it, and when it boils, take off the scum, and let it boil for one hour CINNAMON TABLET. To a pound of loaf sugar, clarified and boiled till it can be blown through the holes of a skimmer, allow half an ounce of pounded and sifted cinnamon, or a tea-spoonful of the oil of cinnamon ; stir it well with the sugar, and press it with a spoon to the sides of the pan, to make it perfectly smooth; rub some plates over with fresh butter, and pour in the tablet. When cold, cut it into square bits. Ginger tablet may be may made in this way, allowing a quarter of an ounce of ginger to a pound of sugar. LEMON DROPS. Squeeze and strain the juice of six good-sized lemons ; mix with it pounded and sifted loaf sugar, till so thick that it is stirred with difficulty ; put it into a preserving-pan, and, with a wooden spoon, stir it constantly, and let it boil five or six minutes ; then drop it from the point of a knife, upon writing paper, in drops as large as a shilling. When cold, they will readily come off. BARLET SUGAR DROPS. Clarify and boil the sugar to that degree, that upon dip- ping in a wooden stick, and plunging it into cold water, the sugar becomes crisp, and will snap; boil with it the thinly- pared rind of one or two lemons ; drop the sugar upon a stone or marble slab in round drops; when quite cold, roll them in sifted loaf sugar, and lay them between layers of white paper, or fold them in little bits of square paper, and twist it at the end. BARLET SUGAR. Boil the sugar as for the drops, and flavour it with lemon juice, or oil of lemons; rub a little fresh butter over a stone or marble slab, and pour the sugar along it in narrow strips ; twist it while warm, and when cold, with a knife mark it across, and it will break into any lengths.