MISCELLANY. 388 quently, and when dry, put them into bags, and beat them on a knocking-stone with a knocker. TO WASH SILK STOCKINGS, WHITE AND BLACK. Cut in thin bits some white soap, and boil it in soft water ; pour a little of it amongst cold soft water, and wash the stockings, first upon the inner side ; repeat the washing with fresh suds and water, till they are washed quite clean ; tiirn the outside the last time of washing, and if the feet be very dirty, rub a little of the boiled soap upon them, but not upon the legs. If to be coloured, mix the dye with a little clean suds, and dip in the white stockings ; draw them out smooth, and lay them upon a sheet on a bed, with the window open, and when almost dry, lay them upon a piece of flannel, and with another bit rolled up, rub them hard and quick one way, till they look glossy and are dry. They may be mangled, turned upon the inner side, and must always be folded straight upon the instep. TO WASH LACE. Place the lace in folds, and baste it on each side ; lay it in cold water for a night, and wash it in cold water with the best white soap ; gently rub and squeeze it; wash it in three or four waters with the soap, and after that rinse it well in clean water ; then put it into thin starch or rice wafer ; take out the basting thread, and spread it on a blanket upon a bed to dry; when it is nearly so, pick it out; lay it in folds, and when quite dry, lay it in an old cambric handkerchief, and then in the folds of a towel; put it upon the rug, or upon a blanket laid upon a stone, and with a heavy wooden pestle, or rolling-pin, beat it hard till the lace looks quite smooth. A scarf or veil, after being starched, should be pinned out tight upon a cloth on the floor, and when dry, beaten in the same manner. TO WASH HEAD AND CLQTHEB BHCSHES. In a pint of hot water, put a dessert-spoonful of pearl- ashes, and shake the brush about in it till it be perfectly clean ; then pour some clean hot water over it; shake, and dry it before the fire. TO WASH FLANNELS AND WORSTED THINGS, TO PREVENT THEIR SHRINKING, AND TO KEEP THEM OF A GOOD COLOUR. Take half the weight of soda that there is of soap ; boil them with water, allowing a gallon to every pound of soap,