PICKLES. 355 salt; let them stand twenty-four hours. Strain off the liquor, and to a quart put the well-beaten whites of two or three eggs; boil it, and run it through a flannel bag; then boil it for about ten minutes with a little salt, three quarters of an ounce of black, and a quarter of an ounce of Jamaica pepper. When cold, bottle it with the spices, and seal the corks. BURTON’S MUSHROOM CATSUP. Peel the mushrooms, break them into bits, and strew salt over them; let them stand one night only, warm them on the fire, and then strain the liquor; boil it about five minutes, and skim it well. Add to each quart half an ounce of ginger, one blade of mace, six cloves, quarter of an ounce of black pepper, and half an ounce of allspice, and let the whole boil a quarter of an hour. Bottle it when quite cold. TOMATA CATSUP. When tomatas are very ripe, slice them, and put a layer into a jar; sprinkle salt over it, and lay in another layer ; do this till the jar is full; stir them now and then for three days, and let the jar stand in a warm place ; they must then remain for twelve days without being stirred, and a thick scum having gathered over them, squeeze the juice from the tomatas, and boil it with the same proportion of spice that is allowed for mushroom catsup; when cold, bottle it, and seal the corks. In three months, strain and boil it again with fresh spice. It will then keep good a twelvemonth. OYSTER CATSUP. Boil one hundred oysters with their liquor, till the strength be extracted from them ; strain them well, and add to the li- quor an equal quantity of wine, one half port and the other sherry, also a quarter of an ounce of mace, the same of white pepper and of allspice, a drachm or tea-spoonful of ginger, and six anchovies ; boil all together about fifteen mi- nutes. Put into ajar twelve shalots, the peel of a lemon, and a piece of horse-radish cut small; pour upon them the boiling liquor, and when cold, bottle it, together with the spices. PRINCE OF WALES'S CATSUP. Strip and fill a jar with ripe elder-berries ; add as much vinegar as the jar will contain, put it into a cool oven, and let it stand all night. Run the liquor through a jelly-bag, and to every pint put two ounces of anchovies, one of sha- lots ; of cloves, mace, nutmeg, and ginger, a drachm or tea-