275 CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. it closely, and place it in a bucket which has a small hole near the bottom, and a spigot to let the water run off, and which has in it plenty of ice broken small, and mixed with three or four handfuls of coarse salt; press the ice closely round the freezing-pot, turn it round and round for about ten minutes, take off the cover, and remove the frozen cream to the centre with a spoon, cover it again, and turn it till all be equally iced. Serve it in China ice pails, or put it into moulds, cover them tightly with wet bladder, and place them in a bucket with ice, as before, for an hour or more; dip the moulds into cold water before turning out, and serve them immediately. Water ices are made in this way, substituting water for cream, 'apricot iced cream. Mix a table-spoonful of pounded loaf sugar with a large one of apricot jam, the juce of a lemon, and half an ounce of blanched bitter almonds pounded with a little rose water ; add a pint of cream, and stir it all well together before put- ting it into the freezing-pot. 1YI1LI.E FRUIT ICED CREAM. Strain the juice of three lemons, grate the peel of one ; mince finely, of orange marmalade, dried cherries, and pre- served angelica, a dessert-spoonful each ; add to these half a pint of sirup, and mix the whole with a pint and a half of cream, or a pint of water, and then drop in here and there a few drops of the prepared cochineal. Put it into a mould, imd freeze it. ORANGE WATER ICED. Mix with a pint of water the strained juice of three China oranges, and that of one lemon, also the grated peel of one orange ; sweeten it well with sirup. THE JUICE OF FRESH-GATHERED FRUIT ICED. Press through a sieve the juice of a pint of picked cur- rants or raspberries ; add to it four or five ounces of pounded loaf sugar, a little lemon juice, and a pint of cream. It may be whisked previous to freezing, and a mixture of the juice may be used. BLANCMANGE. Boil till dissolved, in a large tea-cupful of water, three quarters of an ounce of isinglass ; when milk-warm, add it