FISH. 45 FISH PUDDING. Bone and skin two raw fresh haddocks, pound them in a marble mortar, and rub them through a hair sieve; then put the fish again into the mortar with two eggs, a little parsley, and an onion cut small, some white pepper and salt, a slice of bread in crumbs, a quarter of a pound of veal suet, or marrow. Pound all well together, put it into a shape, and boil it an hour. The veal suet, or marrow, may be omitted. SAUCD FOR THE FISH PUDDING Make a sauce with brown soup, in which boil the heads and fins of the haddocks, strain and thicken it with a little butter mixed with flour, and just before taking it off the fire add a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, and the same of essence of lobster, and of Harvey sauce ; let it boil, and pour it round the pudding. LITTLE FISH PUDDINGS. Bone and skin two haddocks, pound them smooth. Boil the same quantity of bread and milk as there is of fish, with a little parsley, mix it with the fish, and rub it through a sieve ; put in two eggs and the yolk of a third, some salt and pepper; stir them very well together, and add the white of the third egg well beaten ; roll them into the form of small sausages, flour and boil tliem fifteen minutes in boiling salt and water. Have ready the following brown sauce to serve in the dish with them ; — In a pint and a half of water, boil the heads, fins, and bones of the haddocks, with a bunch of parsley, an onion, salt and pepper, and a bit of toasted bread; when it has boiled nearly an hour, strain it, and thicken it with flour and butter ; add a table-spoonful of catsup, half a one of soy, and a little cayenne. COLD FISH PUDDING. Pick the fish from the bones, mince it, and mix it with mashed potatoes, one or two well beaten eggs, a little milk, salt, and an onion minced and boiled ; mix all well together, and press it into a shape; turn it out, brush it over with beaten egg, and brown it in a Dutch oven. Serve with melted butter in a sauce-tureen. WHITE FISH AND SAUCE. Make a rich gravy with a bit of veal, the heads and fins of four or five haddocks, three or four onions, some parsley,