PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 22o nearly cold, also one nutmeg, and the peel of one lemon grated, a wine glass of orange-flower water, and one of ratafia, or of brandy : mix all the ingredients well, and bake in patty- pans lined with paste. COCOA-NUT CHEESE CAKES. Pare off the rind; wash and dry the nut, and grate it the flat way ; dissolve a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar in four spoonfuls of water, then add the cocoa-nut, and stir it till it boils; when nearly cold, add the beaten yolks of two eggs, and a dessert-spoonfid of orange-flower water; mix it all t horoughly, and bake it in patty-pans lined with paste. Sift grated sugar over them before they are baked. With the ad- dition of one more yolk of an egg, and a quarter of a pound of butter, the above ingredients may be made into a pudding. RICE CHEESE CAKES. Four ounces of sifted ground rice, the same quantity of pounded loaf sugar and of melted butter, the well-beaten yolks of six^eggs and the whites of three, a glass of brandy, and the grated peel of a lemon ; mix all well together, and bake in patty-pans lined with paste. MAIDS OF HONOUR. Beat with the yolks of seven eggs half a pound of pounded loaf sugar ; pound, but not too finely, the same quantity of blanched sweet almonds, with a few bitter ones, and two table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water ; mix in the almonds the last thing, and bake in patty-pans lined with paste. CHEESE CAKES. Take one pound of pounded loaf sugar, six yolks, and four whites of eggs beaten, the juice of three fine lemons, the grated rind of two, and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter ; put these ingredients into a sauce-pan, and stir the mixture gently over a slow fire till it be of the consistence of honey ; pour it into small jars, and when cold, put paper dipped in brandy over them. It will keep good for a year. CHEESE CAKE PUDDING. Boil, in a quart of milk, a laurel leaf and a stick of cin- namon ; strain it, and when nearly cold, add six well-beaten eggs, and two more eggs with which two table-spoonfuls of flour have been beaten ; put it into a sauce-pan, and stir it over the fire till it be as thick as a custard cream ; take it ofl', r