260 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. of the eggs ; fry it in a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; shake it to prevent its adhering to the pan ; when firm, sift grated sugar over the top, and brown it with a salamander, or hot shovel; serve it immediately when done. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE OMELET SOUFFLET. Beat six yolks of eggs with two table-spoonfuls of sugar, one of flour, a little salt, half a wine glass of orange-flower water, or the grated peel of half a lemon ; mix in the well- beaten whites the last thing; fry, and serve it with grated su- gar over the top. APPLE SOUFFLET. Prepare apples as for baking in a pudding; put them into a deep dish, and lay upon the top, about an inch and a half thick, rice boiled in new milk with sugar; beat to a stiff froth the whites of two or three eggs, with a little sifted loaf sugar, lay it upon the rice, and bake it in an oven a light brown. Serve it instantly when done. RICH SOUFFLET. Soak in white wine and a little brandy, sweetened wa’th sugar, some slices of spunge-cake ; put them into a deep dish, and pour over them a rich custard ; beat to a stiff froth the whites of three or four eggs, and wdth a table-spoon lay it over the top in heaps to look rough ; brow'n it in a Dutch oven, and serve quickly. RICE SOUFFLET. Soak in half a pint of milk, for an hour, one ounce of rice, and the peel of a lemon cut thin ; put it into a sauce-pan, with a little salt, and add by degrees a pint of new milk, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut; stir it till it boil, and for five minutes after. When cool, add the yolks of six eggs, beaten with two table-spoonfuls of pounded loaf sugar, and stir in the w^ell-beaten whites of the eggs, and dress the soufflet in the dish like a pyramid. Bake it in an oven. It may be made with two table-spoonfuls of potato flour, which mix with a little milk and a little salt, and then thicken it over the fire with more milk ; put a little orange-flower water, or any other perfume; whilst in the oven, it maybe glazed with sifted loaf sugar. ORANGE SOUFFLET. Mix M'ith a table-spoonful of flour a pint of cream ; put