THE DAIRY. 413 other shallow vessel, to let out the buttermilk, spread thin over the inside of the bowl, and clean cold water poured over it; kneaded, broken, and respread in the water; the water poured off; the butter beaten in large lumps, or handfuls, of three or four pounds, against the sides of the bowl, respread, salted, the salt worked in, rewashed, and rebeaten until the water comes off unsullied, which it will do after two or three washings. It is then broken into pound lumps, rebeaten against the bowl, and printed, or otherwise made up. There is a finishing operation which is sometimes given in the neighbourhood of London. It is thus performed : — The bowl or tray being wetted, to prevent the butter from stick- ing to it, and a cheese-cloth, strainer, or other cloth being washed in clean cold water, and wrung as dry as possible, a pound lump of butter is placed in the bowl, and with a stroke of the hand, proportioned to the stiffness of the butter, is beaten with the cloth ; as the pat of butter be- comes flat and thin, it is rolled up with the cloth, by a kind of dexterity which can only be acquired by practice, and again beaten flat; the dairy-woman, every three or four strokes, rolling up either one side or the other of the pat, and moving it about in the bowl, to prevent its sticking. As soon as the cloth fills with moisture, which it extracts from the butter, and imbibes in the manner of a spunge, it is wrung, and rewashed in clean cold water. Each pound of butter requires, in cool weather, four or five minutes to be beaten thoroughly, but two minutes are at any time of essential service. Before the dairy-woman begins to take the butter out of the churn, she first scalds, and then plunges immediately into cold water, every vessel and thing which she is about to make use of, in order to prevent the butter from sticking to them. In summer, when the butter is very soft, it is sometimes necessary to rub them, after scalding, with salt, which greatly assists the wood in retaining the moisture. She also puts her own hands into the hottest water she can bear them in, rubs them with salt, and im- mediately plunges them into cold water. This she repeats as often as she finds the butter stick to them The practice of washing butter in cold water is so general, that it seems unnecessary to describe it; but those who can divest themselves of prejudice, will find, on trial, that the butter may be made better, and perfectly free from milk, by beating and kneading, without pouring any water on it. When formed into pats, it may be put into a dish, and that floated in water till required ; or it may be salted in the usual manner.