227 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. ANOTHER WAY TO REAKE ORANGE PUDDING. The yolks of six, and the whites of three eggs, well beaten ■. three table-spoonfnls of orange marmalade, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar pounded, the same of melted butter ; three table-spoonfuls of grated bread, and a quarter of a pint of cream : mix all well together, and bake them in a dish lined with puff paste. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE ORANGE PUDDING. Cut in half three large Seville oranges; squeeze and strain the juice ; boil the skins till quite soft in a good deal of water, pound them in a mortar, and mix them with the yolks of nine, and the whites of four well-beaten eggs, nearly a pound of pounded loaf sugar, the juice of the oranges, and half a pound of melted butter. Bake it in a dish lined with puff paste for half an hour. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE ORANGE PUDDING. Steep in cold water for two days, changing the water twice a-day, six large Seville oranges ; put them on in cold water to boil in a closely-covered sauce-pan ; when a straw will pierce them, take them out, and weigh equal quantities of pounded loaf sugar and of oranges ; cut and pick out the seeds of the oranges, pound them with the sugar in a mor- tar till they are like a paste ; take out all the white and stringy parts, and when quite smooth, pack it into jars, and tie them closely over with paper. It will keep for a year ; and when it is to he made into a pudding, mix with two table- spoonfuls of it five well-beaten yolks of eggs, two ounces and a half of sugar, the same of melted butter, three table- spoonfuls of white wine, and two of rose water; beat the ingredients together for nearly half an hour ; bake it in a dish lined with puff paste, DEMON PUDDING. Boil in water, in a closely covered sauce-pan, tw'o large lemons till quite tender ; take out the seeds, and pound the lemons to a paste ; add a quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, the same of fresh butter beaten to a cream, and the yolks of three well-beaten eggs; mix all together, and bake it in a tin lined with puff paste ; take it out, strew- over the top grated loaf sugar, and serve it upon a napkin.