57 FISH. salt and pepper, minced parsley, sweet marjoram, a little thyme, savory, and a leaf or two of sage ; roll them very tight, and bind them firmly with tape; boil the heads, tails, and bones, in two quarts of water, and one pint of vinegar or cider, with one onion, three bay leaves, some salt and pepper; when it boils, put in the collars, and when tender take them out, and boil the liquor a little longer ; strain and skim it, and when cold put in the fish. If the fish is to be kept long, it will be necessary to boil up the liquor, occa- sionally adding a little fresh vinegar. - TO POT EELS. Clean, skin, and bone them ; season them well upon both sides with pepper, salt, a little mace, and Jamaica pepper; let them lie for six hours, then cut them into small pieces, and pack them close into a dish ; cover them with a coarse paste, and bake them. When quite cold, take olF the paste, and pour over them clarified butter. STEWED EELS. Clean and skin the eels, wipe them dry, and cut them into pieces about four inches long; take two onions, two shalots, a bunch of parsley, thyme, two bay leaves, a little mace, black and Jamaica pepper, a pint of good gravy, the same of port wine, and the same of vinegar, and six anchovies bruised; let all boil together for ten minutes ; take out the eels ; boil the sauce till reduced to a quart; strain and thicken it with a table-spoonful of flour, mixed smooth in a little cold water. Put in the eels, and boil them till they are tender. Eels may also be roasted, with a common stuffing, ANOTHER WAY TO STEW EELS. After the eels are cleaned and skinned, cut them into pieces ; season well two pounds and a half with salt and black pepper, put an ounce of butter into a stew-pan with a large handful of sorrel, three or four sage leaves, half an onion cut small, a little grated lemon-peel, and one anchovy chopped; put in the eels, and pour over them half a pint of water; stew them gently for half an hour, shaking them oc- casionally ; before serving, add a little grated nutmeg, and the juice of half a lemon. TO STEW LAMPREYS. Clean them well with salt and warm water, and remove the cartilage which runs down the back ; season them with