305 CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. the same quantity of fresh butter washed with rose water, two pounds of finely-pounded loaf sugar, three pounds of cleaned and dried currants, one nutmeg grated, half a pound of sweetmeats cut small, a quarter of a pound of blanched almonds pounded with a little rose water, and twenty eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately. The butter must be beaten with the hand till it become like cream; then add the sugar, and by degrees the eggs; after these, the rest of the ingredients, mixing in at the last the currants, with a tea- cupful of brandy, and nearly as much orange-flower water. This mixture must be beaten together rather more than an hour, then put into a cake-pan, which has previously been buttered and lined with buttered paper; fill it rather more than three parts full. It should be baked in a moderate oven for three hours, and then cooled gradually by at first letting it stand some time at the mouth of the oven. ALMOND CAKE. Blanch half a pound of sweet, and three ounces of bitter almonds; pound them to a paste in a mortar with orange- flower water ; add half a pound of sifted loaf sugar, and a little brandy; whisk separately, for half an hour, the whites and yolks of twenty eggs, add the yolks to the almonds and sugar, and then stir in the whites, and beat them all well together. Butter a tin pan, sift bread raspings over it, put the cake into it, over the top of which strew sifted loaf sugar. Bake in a quick oven for half or three quarters of an hour. WATER CAKES. Mix together three quarters of a pound of sifted loaf sugar, and one pound of dried and sifted flour, and some caraway seeds; make it into a stiff paste, with the white of an egg beaten with a little water ; roll it out very thin, cut the cakes round with the top of a glass or tin, prick them with a fork, and bake them upon buttered tins. CARAWAY CAKES. Mix half a pound of sifted loaf sugar with a pound of flour and a quarter of a pound of butter, add some caraway seeds ; make it into a stiff paste, with three well-beaten eggs, and a ittle rose water; roll it out thin, cut it into round cakes, prick them with a fork, and bake them upon floured tins in a quick oven. U