CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 273 XiaPERlAI. CREAia. Squeeze and strain the juice of three lemons; grate the rinds of two, mix them with two glasses of brandy, and sweeten well with pounded loaf sugar ; add a quart of cream made hot, and also sweetened; pour it through a tea-pot. The dish must stand upon the floor, and the person who pours in the cream upon a table, carrying the stream up by degrees as high as possible. When cold, garnish the dish with lemon-peel. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE IMPERIAL CREAM. Add a table-spoonful of orange-flower water to the juice of three lemons, and stir in pounded loaf sugar till as thick as a sirup ; boil a pint of milk, with half the peel of a lemon, and a little sugar; stir it till milk-warm, and put it all into a tea-pot, from which pour it into a dish placed upon the floor. RATAFIA CREAM. In a tea-cupful of thin cream, boil two or three large laurel, or young peach leaves; when it has boiled three or four minutes, strain, and mix with it a pint of rich sweet cream ; add three well-beaten whites of eggs, and sweeten it with pounded loaf sugar. Put it into a sauce-pan, and stir it gently one way over a slow fire till it be thick ; pour it into a china dish, and when quite cold, ornament it with sweet- meats cut out like flowers ; or strew over the top harlequin comfits. CURDS AND CREAM. With about half a table-spoonful of rennet, turn two quarts of milk just from the cow ; drain off the whey, and fill a mould with the curd ; when it has stood an hour or two, turn it out. Strew coloured comfits over it, sweeten some cream, mix grated nutmeg with it, and pour it round the curd. CURDS AND CREAM AS IN SCOTLAND. Put two quarts of new milk into the dish in which it is to be served, and turn it with a tea-spoonful of rennet; when the curd has come, serve it with cream in a separate dish. NAPLES CURD. Put into a quart of new milk a stick of cinnamon, boil it a few minutes, take out the cinnamon, and stir in ei»ht well- beaten eggs, and a table-spoonful of white wine; "when it