15(3 GAME. quart of milk, with which it must be constantly basted till it be nearly done ; then baste and froth it with butter. Serve with gravy, and, in a sauce-tureen, currant jelly sauce. HASHED HARE. Cut it into small pieces; heat it thoroughly in highly sea- soned gravy, adding, with the stuffing, a tea-spoonful of vi- negar, and a glass of port wine. The legs may be scored, seasoned with pepper and salt, rubbed with cold butter, and broiled. They may be served with the hash, or on a separate dish. STEWED HARE. Cut off all the meat, in small pieces ; make a strong gravy with the bones of the hare, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two onions ; strain it, and put in the hare, wdthtwo table-spoon- fuls of port wine, two or three thin bits of bacon, a little salt, mace, and a clove pounded. Cover it closely, and let it stew two hours, and if the gravy is much reduced, add a little more. FLORENDINE HARE. After a hare has hung a week, prepare it as for roasting, and take out all the bones of the body, leaving the head whole. Make a stuffing as before directed; lay it over the inside of the hare, roll it up, sew it, and fasten it with pack- thread; roll it into a cloth, and boil it in two quarts of vvater an hour and a half. When the liquor is reduced to a quart, add a pint of port wine, and of lemon pickle and mush- room catsup, a table-spoonful each, also a tea-spoonful of browning; thicken it with flour and butter, and stir it till reduced a little. Serve with forcemeat balls, morels, and mushrooms; make the ears lie back upon the roll, and gar- nish with barberries and curled parsley. HARE AND VENISON COLLOPS. These are dressed in the same manner as mince collops of beef, only that, in place of the seasoning of the collops of beef, they have a little Jamaica pepper, salt, and some port wine. TO HASH VENISON. For a gravy, boil a part of the bone and trimmings of the cold haunch in a little water ; season with a few peppercorns and some salt; strain and thicken it with a bit of butter rolled in flour; add a glass of port wine, and a table-spoonful