PICKLES. 358 SLICED CUCUMBERS AND ONIONS. Cut full-grown cucumbers into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, and slice some onions thin ; then lay them into a dish together, and strew salt over them; cover them with another dish, and let them remain for twenty-four hours. Put them into a cullender to drain, then into a large jar, and pour over them boiled vinegar three successive days ; the last time of boiling the vinegar, add white pepper and ginger, pour it over them hot, and closely cover them when cold. WALNUTS. Gather them for pickling when the head of a pin will pierce them easily; run a large needle through them here and there, or score them on one side with a knife; lay them into a brine of salt and water for twelve days, changing the brine twice in that time; strain, and put them into a jar, and sprinkle a little salt over them. Boil four quarts of vinegar for a hundred walnuts, allowing to each quart one ounce of whole black pepper, and one of ginger, half an ounce each of sliced nutmeg and whole allspice, a table-spoonful of mustard seed, and one of scraped horse-radish, one head of garlic, or a small onion ; pour it boiling hot over the walnuts, and put a plate on the jar; when cold, tie it closely down. After the walnuts are used, the liquor may be boiled, strained, and bottled, to use as a pickle. ANOTHER WAY TO PICKLE WALNUTS. Gather the nuts before the inside shell is hard, which may be known by trjnng them with a pin ; lay them into salt and water nine days, changing the liquor every three days ; then take them out, and dry them in the air on a sieve or mat; they should not touch each other, and they should be turned, that every side may become black alike ; then put them into ajar. When half the nuts are in, put in an onion, with about thirty cloves stuck into it, and add the rest of the nuts. To one hundred walnuts allow half a pint of mustard seed, a quarter of an ounce of mace, half an ounce of black pepper- corns, and six bay leaves ; boil all the spice in some good common vinegar, and pour it boiling upon the nuts, observing that they are entirely covered ; stop the mouth of the jar with a cloth, and when cold, cover it with bladder or leather. In about six weeks they will be fit for use, when they should be examined, and if they have absorbed the vinegar so much z