CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 314 PLUM CAKE. To one pound of dried and sifted flour, allow three quar- ters of a pound of sifted loaf sugar, eight eggs, the yolks and whites separately beaten ; three quarters of a pound of butter beaten to a cream, three pounded cloves, half a grated nut- meg, half a pound of cleaned and dried currants; add the sugar to the butter, and next the eggs by degrees, then the flour and spices. Beat all well together for nearly an hour ; mix in the currants with the grated peel of a lemon, half a glass of white wine, and the same quantity of brandy ; put it into a cake-pan lined with buttered paper; bake it in a moderate oven. GATEAU A LA DAUPHINE. Beat separately the whites and yolks of twenty eggs ; to the yolks add a pound of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, the grated peel of one lemon, and two or three table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water; then stir in the whites, and lightly mix in half a pound of dried and sifted flour. Bake in a buttered tin, in a moderate oven. GINGERBREAD CAKE. Take two pounds of treacle, two and a quarter of flour, of brown sugar and fresh butter three quarters of a pound each, four ounces of caraway seeds, the same quantity of canded orange-peel cut small, three ounces of finely-poun- ded ginger, four well-beaten eggs, and half an ounce of pearl ashes; beat the butter to a cream, and mix it with the rest of the ingredients; the next day work it well up, and bake it in a buttered tin. This quantity may be made into two cakes, and baked in a slow oven two hours. GINGERBREAD NUTS. Take one pound of dried and sifted flour, one pound of treacle, three ounces of brown sugar, four ounces of fresh butter, one ounce and a half of pounded and sifted ginger, of candied orange-pell and citron, cut small, three quarters of an ounce each : melt the butter with the treacle, and when it is about milk-warm, add it to the flour and other ingredients, and then mix all well together; with a spoon, drop the nuts upon buttered tins, and bake them. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE GINGERBREAD NUTS. Dissolve a quarter of a pound of butter in three quarters