POULTRY. 406 them, and promotes their health. After a month or six weeks’ confinement within doors, the hens may be cooped for another fortnight; when full grown, they will, in a good range, provide themselves throughout the day, requiring only to be fed at their outletting in the morning, and on their return at even. Sodden barley, or barley and wheat meal mixed, is the proper food for fattening turkeys. The flesh of the young cocks, intended for the table, will become more delicate if the fleshy substance which grows immediately above the bill be taken off when it is about a quarter of an inch long; a worsted thread tied round it will bring it off in a few w'eeks. THE BUSTARD Will probably thrive well on the same food as the turkey. It is seldom reared; but as its flesh has ever been considered most delicious, it appears particularly worthy of the attention of those who aim at variety and novelty. GUINEA AND PEA FOWLS Are in season when game is going out, namely, from Feb- ruary to June. The guinea fowl assimilates perfectly with the common species in habits and in kinds of food. They are very prolific, and their eggs nourishing and good. The peacock is not only ornamental, but useful for the destruc- tion of all kinds of reptiles; but some are apt to tear to pieces young chickens and ducklings. They are also destruc- tive in gardens. The cock requires from two to four hens. They are granivorous, like other domestic fowls, preferring barley. THE DUCK. The Rhone ducks are of a darker flesh, and more savoury, than the English duck, but somewhat coarse. The white variety of the English duck is never so high-flavoured as the darker colours. The Muscovy and other foreign varieties are kept more for curiosity than use. The white Aylesbury are a beautiful stock. The canvass-backed ducks of America are said to be the finest in the world; they have probably not yet been imported into Europe. The duck will cover from eleven to fifteen eggs, and she sits thirty days. One drake to five ducks is allowed. The duck, when sitting, re- quires a secret and safe place; but no farther attendance is necessary till the whole brood is hatched, when a coop should be prepared upon the short grass, if the weather is fine, or