420 THE DAIRY. let it stand a little, that the whey may rise to the top; take it completely off, and work into it from six ounces to half a pound of salt, according to its strength. Place the vat or hoop (which should be long and narrow, made open at both ends, and without holes in the sides—thirteen inches by twelve is a good proportion for this quantity of milk) in a wooden milk cooler; pack the curd into it without any cloth under it, and then put on the top a round board made to fit closely into the vat; place a weight of four or five pounds upon it, and next evening shake the cheese carefully from the vat; bind a cloth round it, and change it for a dry one every day, till the cheese become firm and dry in the skin. BATH CRBAIYI CHEESE. Three gallons of new milk, one of hot water, and one pint of cream, are mixed together, and a larger proportion of rennet added than for milk alone ; when the curd is come, it is broken a little, and the whey dripped from it; a gallon of cold water is then poured over it, and it is again broken and dripped: the same process being repeated a third time, the curd is put into two quarts of boiling water, and the most of the whey squeezed out; it it is then drained, put into the vat, and pressed for three hours; turned, and pressed for three hours more, which is sufi5cient. No salt nor colouring is necessary. A DAT CHEESE. One pint of cream being mixed with twelve pints of noon- day milk, warm from the cow, a little rennet is added, and when the curd is come, the whey is pressed out gently, so as to break the curd as little as possible ; it is then laid in a cloth, and put into a small sieve; the cloth is changed every hour during the day, and in twenty-four hours it will be fit for use. It may be served on a breakfast plate, with vine leaves under it, and will keep perfectly good only one day. NEW CHEESE. To six quarts of new milk from the cow, a little hot water ’ and rennet to turn it, are added; when the curd is come, it is cut twice across with a cheese-knife or spoon; then put into a cheese-cloth, and hung up ; in half an hour it is again divided with the cheese-knife, hung up, and allowed to re- main till night, when it is put into the press ; the following day it is taken out, and each side well rubbed with a little salt. It will be fit for use in two days.