418 THE DAIKY. the cheese is pricked all over with a small bodkin an inch or two deep. It is then wrapped in a clean dry cloth, and replaced in the vat, twice a-day, at least during two days, when it is finally removed, and put into the cheese-rack, or on a dry board, and turned every day for about a week. A small quantity of dry moss may be put under it. When two meals of milk are used, unless the weather be very hot, a portion of the creamed milk of the first meal, as a half, or third, being placed in a brass pan, over a furnace, or in a vessel of hot water, is made scalding hot. Half of it is then poured into the pan in which the cream of this milk had been placed. The hot milk and cream, being now inti- mately mixed, are poured into the cheese-tub, and the warm milk added, that had just come in from the cow. In making cheeses of the inferior kind, as from skimmed milk, where, from its tendency to acidity, there is a risk that it will break or curdle while over the fire, the whole is brought to a proper temperature by the addition of hot water. The cooler the milk, the more tender and delicate the curd becomes ; on the contrary, if the milk be too hot, the curd proves tough and hard. The principal thing in skim-milk cheese operations is cleanliness, which is indeed the life and soul of dairy management. Wooden vessels in which milk has soured, ought to be washed with water into which some potash or lime has been thrown, then filled with water, which should be changed every hour in the course of a day or so, and afterwards scalded and well dried, before milk be again put into them. The colouring matter, arnatto, adds nothing to the good- ness of the cheese, but is perfectly harmless. An ounce of it is sufficient to colour a hundred-weight of cheese. When it is to be used, tie up as much of the substance as is required, in a linen bag, and put it into half a pint of warm water, to stand over night. The whole of this infusion is in the morn- ing mixed with the milk in the cheese-tub, and the rag dipped in the milk rubbed on the palm of the hand, as long as any of the colouring matter can be made to come away. TO PRODUCE THE BLUE COAT, OR BLUE MOULD XN CHEESE. As soon as the cheese has become firm enough to be handled with safety, it may be brushed with a hard brush, frequently dipped in whey, and when nearly dry, rubbed over with a cloth on which fresh butter had been spread; this operation of washing, rubbing, and turning, to be repeated