PICKLES. 860 stand till cold. Put a few bits of horse-radish into the jar, and tie it over with bladder and paper. INDIAN PICKLE. ScHAPE and wash a pound of white ginger ; cut it into thin slices, and put it into salt and water for one night; then lay it upon a dish, strew salt over it, and let it stand till the rest of the ingredients are ready. Cut into hits a pound of garlic, let it lie for three days in salt; wash, drain, and dry it upon a sieve before the fire, or in the sun. Boil, for a quarter of an hour, in some salt and water, some summer cabbages ; cut them into quarters, drain them, and strew on them some finely-minced fresh beef suet; let them lie for twelve hours, then pull them into small bits, and dry them under glasses in the sun, so that no dust can get at them; turn them con- stantly for three days, and if not quite dry, put them before the fire; they should be like parchment. Boil, in salt and water, cauliflower, celery, French beans, and sliced horse- radish ; pull the cauliflower into bits, and cut the celery into pieces an inch long; dry them in the sun, or by the fire. Finely bruise a quarter of a pound of mustard-seed and an ounce of turmeric ; add with it a quarter of a pound of long pepper, and the same of allspice, to a quart of the strongest vinegar; boil it, and add three quarts of common vinegar ; pour it, when boiling hot, upon all the dried vegetables placed in a jar. In three weeks, if the vinegar be much wasted, fill it up with more. The jar may be added to, every year ; and the pickles keep good any length of time. TO PICKLE ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS. Boil the artichokes till the leaves can be pulled off with- out breaking the bottoms; leave on the part called the choke, set them aside till cold, then put them into wide- mouthed bottles. Boil, in vinegar, some salt, white pepper, mace, and sliced nutmeg, and, when cold, pour it over the artichokes ; tie bladder over the bottles. WALNUT PICKLE. Put any quantity of the outside shells or green rinds of ripe walnuts into a tub in which there is a tap-hole; sprinkle them with water, raise the tub on one side, that it may stand in a sloping direction, place another vessel under it to receive the juice as it drops from the tap-hole; this it will soon be- gin to do; and, when a sufficient quantity has been obtained, to one gallon of this black liquor add two large table-spoon-