139 POULTRY. a pound of veal, the same quantity of fat bacon, and a little fat of ham ; fry all this white in half a pound of butter, adding a bunch of parsley, a little thyme, half a bay leaf, a clove, some salt and pepper, and some boiling water; when suf- ficiently stewed, strain it over the fowls, and let them stew for three quarters of an hour upon a slow fire, but have a pretty brisk one upon the cover of the stew-pan ; drain, and serve them with a rich brown sauce, and a scarlet tongue placed between them in the dish. TO snrw A FOWL WITH ONIONS. Wash it clean, dry and truss it as for boiling, put a little pepper and salt into it, rub it with a bit of butter, as also the sauce-pan ; put in with the fowl a pint of veal stock or water, a little pepper and salt; turn it now and then, and when it becomes quite tender, add twelve or sixteen small onions, and let them stew for half an hour ; a young fowl will take one hour, and an old one three hours, to stew. HASHED FOWL. Cut a cold roasted fowl into pieces as for a fricassee; put the trimmings into a sauce-pan with two or three shalots, a little lemon-peel, a blade of mace, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, and a pint of stock ; simmer it for half an hour, strain it, put a bit of butter into a sauce-pan, and when melted, dredge in as much flour as will dry it up, stirring it all the time; then add the gravy, let it boil a minute, and put in the fowl, also a litttle pepper, salt, and a dust of sugar. Before serving, squeeze in a little lemon juice. TO FULL A CHICKEN. Half roast a chicken or fowl; skin and pull off in small flakes all the white meat and the meat of the legs; break the bones, and boil them in a little water till the strength be drawn out; strain it, and when it becomes cold, skim and put it into a sauce-pan with a little mace, white pepper, and salt; add a bit of butter mixed with flour, and rather more than a quarter of a pint of cream, then put in the meat, and a little mushroom powder; before serving, add the squeeze of a lemon. ANOTHER WAY TO PULL A CHICKEN. Pick all the white meat from the bones of a cold roasted fowl, cut off the legs, and keep the back and sidesmen in one Score, and season the legs and back with pepper and salt, and broil them; warm up the white meat in some sauce