3-28 PRESERVES. scum rises, remove it; add the sliced oranges, and boil for fifteen minutes. IJBMON MARMAXiADE. Allow to a pound of lemons eighteen ounces of fine loaf sugar; grate the rind of a few; cut them into half; squeeze and strain the juice ; boil the skins in the same way as those of the orange are done; scoop out the pulp and white part; cut half into thin chips or parings, and pound the other half in a mortar; pound the sugar, and pour over it the juice; stir, and let it boil for five minutes ; take it off the fire ; skim it; put in the parings and the pounded skins j boil it for five minutes, then add the grated peel, and let it boil for five mi- nutes more; take it off, and stir it till half cold, before putting it into jars. ORANGE JELLT FOR BREAKFAST. Wash the oranges, grate off the outer rind, cut them in half, and after squeezing out the juice, put them into a pan with water in the proportion of one quart to every pound of oranges; boil them gently for an hour, or till the water is reduced to rather less than half; strain it and the juice through a sieve; to every pint of the liquor add one pound of loaf sugar; boil tl>em together till they jelly, which may be in twenty minutes, skimming it well. ORANGE JEXJ.Y MADE FROM SWEET ORANGES. Wash the oranges, and grate off any discoloured part; cut them into round slices ; to each pound add one lemon also sliced; put them into a preserving pan with water, in the proportion of three pints to a pound of fruit; boil till reduced to one pint; strain it through a sieve; and to every pint of the liquor, add one pound of pounded loaf sugar ; boil them together for ten minutes ; skim it well. RED CURRANT JELLY. Gather the currants upon a dry day; pick them clean, pound them in a mortar, and drip them through a tammy, or flannel bag; to every pint of juice allow a pound of fine loaf sugar ; it may be broken small, and boiled with the juice; but to make the jelly beautifully clear, clarify and boil the sugar candy high; add the juice, and boil it six minutes. A pint of white currants to every quart of red improves the colour.