429 KITCHEN GARDEN. CABBAGES. The best soil for cabbages is a rich mould, rather clayey than sandy; and it can scarcely be too much manured, as they are an exhausting crop. The kinds generally preferred for summer use are, the small early dwarf, large curly York- shire, early dwarf Yorkshire, early Battersea, and early sugar- loaf. These are ready for use from April or May to July; for autumn and winter, the imperial, large sugar-loaf, hollow sugar-loaf, and the long or large-sided. The large Drum, white Strasburg, the Scots, and the American cabbage, resist the severity of winter, and grow to a very large size; but they are coarse kinds. The time of sowing for the summer crop is the beginning of the August of the preceding year. An open spot of rich light earth must be chosen, and the seeds of this, and of all the kale tribe, require a covering of no more than an eighth, or a quarter of an inch, in thickness of mould. In about six or eight weeks after the sowing, or when the plants have got several leaves, they are thinned; and those plants taken out of the seed-bed are pricked into other beds, at three inches distance every way. By these means, they have room to grow firm and shapely. In October and November, part of this crop is finally planted out, the re- mainder early in the following spring; and the plants are set in rows between two and three feet wide, and tw’o feet asun- der in the rows. As the cabbages advance, the earth in the rows must be stirred, and drawn round the plants ; indeed the oftener the earth is stirred, the better will be the crop. In the end of April or beginning of May, the early cabbages begin to turn in their leaves, and to harden in the centre, when, if the leaves be bound close with willow twigs, or strands of bass-matting, they will be fit for use a fortnight the earlier. If the roots and stems of a portion of this crop be allowed to remain after the tops are cut off, and the ground delved, and perhaps manured in autumn, very fine cabbages will be produced in the January and February following. For autumn and winter use, the seeds of cabbages are sown in the end of Februar}^ or beginning of March, pricked out into shady borders in May, and allowed to remain there for some weeks. In June, they are finally transplanted, at the same distance as the early kinds. These cabbages come to be fit for use in the autumn months, and continue good, in sheltered situations, and in ordinary seasons, till February or March. Of the red cabbages, the dwarf dark-red kind is considered the best; it may be sown about the end of August, and