SOUPS. 10 pepper and salt, with a quarter of a pound of lean ham. Let it stew till it be completely boiled down, when all the strength will be extracted; rub it through a sieve, thicken it with a little butter, kneaded in flour, and add a pint of Ma- deira. and boil it for a quarter of an hour or twenty miniites. BROWN VENISON SOUP. Cut in small pieces six or seven pounds of the breast of venison; put it in a stew-pan with two or three ounces of butter, cover it closely, stir it once or twice, and let it stew an hour. Mix four quarts of cold water with a pint and a half of the blood ; put it on the fire in another stew-pan, and stir it constantly till it boil; then add the stew to it w'ith an onion minced small, and a whole carrot, some salt, black and Jamaica pepper. If the meat be young, let it boil gently for two hours ; if old, two and a half will be necessary. A little before serving, take out the carrot and all the bones, leaving a little of the meat; mix in half a pint of port wine, and let it boil a short time. It may be thickened with a little flour and butter. BEEF BOULXJ. Put six pounds of a leg or shin of beef on, in six quarts of water; when it boils, skim it well; add a table-spoonful of whole pepper, three large red onions, and one carrot; let it simmer for six or seven hours; when the meat is tender, cut off a piece of it and lay it aside. Wash and clean thoroughly two ox feet; blanch them in cold water for twelve hours, and boil them in fresh water about five hours. The next day, take off the fat from the strained soup; boil it, and add the piece of beef, and the gristles of the ox feet cut small, and let all boil together for a few minutes. Serve with dry toast cut into dice. WHITE SOUP. Blanch in cold water for twelve hours two pounds of very lean beef, put it into a pot, with a knuckle of veal, five quarts of water, two carrots, two turnips, and four middling, sized onions, a table-spoonful of white pepper, a little mace and salt; let this boil four hours, or till the strength be ex- tracted, strain it, and the next day take off all the fat. Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds, pound them in a mortar, with a little water to prevent their oiling ; mix them with the soup, and let it boil for a short time, and just before serving, add a pint of rich cream; do not allow the soup to boil after the