381 DOMESTIC WINES, &c. it, and pour the clear part into a decanterand take two large wine-glassfuls every day. SODA WATEXl. Tartaric acid, half an ounce, aerated soda, half an ounce. Have two tumblers about one-third full of water; put thirty grains of soda into one glass, and twenty-five grains of the acid into the other; when dissolved, mix them together, and drink it immediately. The two sorts of salts must be kept in separate bottles, and should be bought r.eady powdered. ANOTHER WAV TO MAKE SODA WATER. Carbonate of soda, forty-five grains, tartaric acid, thirty grains ; put each powder with a quarter of a pint of cold water into separate tumblers, and mix them well; then pour the one containing the soda into that which has the acid in it, and drink it while it effervesces. Some persons prefer the citric to the tartaric acid, and a smaller quantity of it will suffice. For those who are delicate, or in very cold weather, a small quantity of brandy, or of white wine, may be added ; and the water may be used in a tepid state. As a tonic, the carbonate of soda may be taken first, and the acid mixture instantaneously afterwards, by which means a powerful and salutary effervescence is produced in the stomach. SPRUCE BEER. When ten gallons of water, six pounds of treacle, and three ounces of bruised ginger, have boiled together for half an hour, two pounds of the outer sprigs of the spruce fir are to be added, and boiled for five minutes ; the whole is then to be strained through a hair-sieve, and when milk-warm, put into the cask, and a tea-cupful of good yeast stirred well into it. When it has fermented a day or two, it is to be bunged up, and the following day bottled. It will be fit for use in a week. The ginger is sometimes omitted, and instead of the spruce fir, three ounces of the essence may be used, which is to be well whisked, together with the treacle, and a gallon or two of warm water; then put into the cask, which is to be filled up with water, and the yeast added. ANOTHER WAV TO MAKE SPRUCE BEER. The proportions are ten gallons of water, three quarts of treacle, a tea-cupful of ginger, the same of allspice, three