C9 BEEF. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW A RUMP OP BEEF. Fry a small rump or fore rib of beef in butter till it is brown all over. Make a sauce with butter browned with flour, and some water in which two or three onions have been boiled ; season with pepper, salt, and three table-spoon- fuls of vinegar; put in the beef, turn it frequently, and stew it gently for three hours. A little before serving, add a tea- cupful of port wine. Carrots and turnips, cut into dice, may be stewed with it. A RUMP OF BEEF A LA BRAISE. After a rump of beef has hung for five or six days, bone, and lard it thickly, but so as not to appear upon the surface, with bits of bacon or ham cut about half an inch square, and rolled in the following seasoning well mixed : — Finely-minced onion, parsley, thyme, a little garlic, pepper, and salt. What is left over of the seasoning add to a pint of vinegar, one ot port wine, and a tea-cupful of salad oil; steep the beef in this for one night; the following day paper it, and roast it in a cradle spit. Baste it well, and serve it with a thick brown gravy, A little lemon juice, and sliced pickled cucumbers may be added. Garnish with slices of boiled carrot and scraped horse-radish. STEWED BEEF. Stew in five quarts of water the middle part of a brisket of beef weighing ten pounds, add two onions stuck with two cloves, one head of celery, one large carrot, two turnips cut small, a handful of sorrel leaves, half an ounce of black pep- per, and some salt. Stew it gently for six hours. Make a strong gravy with carrots and turnips, the turnips to be scraped and fried of a brown colour in butter ; add pepper, salt, and a little cayenne; thicken it with flour and butter, and pour it over the beef, with the carrots and turnips. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW BEEF. Take ten pounds of a brisket of beef; cut the short ribs, and put it into a well-buttered sauce-pan, with two large onions, stuck with three or four cloves, two or three carrots cut into quarters, q bunch of sweet herbs, a small lemon sliced, and five quarts of water ; let it stew seven hours. Strain and clarify the gravy ; thicken it with butter and flour. Chop the carrots with some capers, mushroom catsup, and cayenne. Any other pickle that is liked may be added.