MISCELLANY. 387 TO PREVENT CREAKING HINGES. Rub them with soft soap, or a feather dipped in sweet oil. TO DESTROY BUGS. Mix one ounce of corrosive sublimate with a pint of spirits of wine; shake it well, and, with a feather, rub it over the joints and posts of the bedsteads. Repeat the application if the first is not successful. Or well wash with a strong in- fusion of tobacco leaves, steeped in boiling water. TO SWEEP CARPETS. Sprinkle tea-leaves over them, and sweep them with a hair broom ; a whisk should very seldom be used; and fine carpets should be done with a clothes brush. Dry snow is preferable to tea-leaves, and should be used in the same way. TO WASH AND CLEAN A CARPET. Shake and beat it well; lay it upon the floor, and tack it firmly; then with a clean flannel wash it over with one quart of bullock’s gall, mixed with three quarts of soft cold water, and rub it off with a clean flannel or house cloth. Any par- ticularly dirty spot should be rubbed with pure gall. TO TAKE STAINS OUT OF MARBLE CHIMNEY. PIECES AND HEARTHS. Mix, with one quart of strong soap-lees, one pound of pearl ashes, and as much fine whitening as will make it into a paste ; lay this all over the marble, and let it remain for some weeks; then wash it off with a flannel, and cold water •and soap. Polish it with a dry flannel. TO CLEAN FEATHERS. Allow, to every gallon of water, half a pound of quick lime; stir the mixture well, and let it stand a night ; then pour off for use the lime water that is perfectly clear ; put the feathers to be cleaned into a deep tub, and pour as much lime water on them as will cover them ; stir them well with a stick, and let them stand two or three days, stirring them frequently; then put them into a bag, and wash them thoroughly in cold water; then turn them out on sieves, and wring the water from them by squeezing them in small portions with the hands ; after which, they may be separated, the hard quills picked out, and the down stripped from the large feathers. When they are thus carefully cleaned, lay them on a floor where air can be freely admitted ; turn and shake them fre-