306 CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE CARAWAY CAKES. Three quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of butter well rubbed into it, a quarter of a pound of sifted loaf sugar, and some caraway seeds; make these into a stiff paste with a little cold water, roll it out two or three times, cut it into round cakes, prick them, and bake them upon floured tins. For a change, currants may be substituted for the caraway seeds. BANBURY CAKES. Strew some nicely-cleaned currants over a piece of puff paste; roll it out, cut it into round cakes with the top of a dredging box ; bake them upon floured tins, and the moment they are taken out of the oven, sift sugar over them, and put them upon a dish to cool. After making pies, they may be made with the remainder of the paste. ROUT CAKES. Rub into one pound of flour half a pound of fresh butter washed in rose water; of brown sifted loaf sugar, sweetmeats cut small, and well-cleaned currants, a quarter of a pound each; mix all the ingredients with three well-beaten eggs, and add one or two table-spoonfuls of brandy. Drop it in rough knobs upon floured tins, and bake them in a quick oven. RICH CURRANT CAKE. Have ready three pounds of dried and sifted flour, two pounds and a half of fresh butter, one pound of sifted loaf sugar, one pound of citron and lemon-peel cut small, three quarters of a pound of blanched sw^eet almonds cut into thin bits, and steeped in rose water, five pounds of well-cleaned currants, one nutmeg grated, half an ounce of pounded mace, the yolks of fifteen, and the whites of seven eggs beaten separately, half a pint of fresh yeast, a pint and a half of cream, an eighth of a pint of orange-flower water ; then mix the spice with the* flour; melt the butter and cream together, and when cold, stir them into the flour; add the yeast to the beaten eggs, and strain them into the flour, then mix in the rest of the ingredients, and beat them well together. Butter a cake-pan, line it with buttered paper, pour in the cake, and put it immediately into the oven. As soon as it rises, and is a little coloured, cover the top with paper. It will take nearly three hours to bake.