412 THE DAIRY. after the cow has calved; and the degree of heat most fa- vourable to the production of cream from milk, is from 50“ to 55 Fahrenheit. In summer, the milk should be allowed i to stand half an hour before it be put into the pans, which i should not exceed two inches in depth. In winter, it should I be set as soon as possible. From the last-drawn half of the i milk, if allowed to stand till it tastes perceptibly sourish, ! cream of a superior quality will be obtained, and its quantity j not considerably less than if the whole were set apart for the production of cream. Sweet cream requires four times as much churning as that which has become sour by standing. | From twelve to twenty hours in summer, and about twice as long in winter, should be permitted to elapse before the milk i is skimmed — after it is put into the pans, during the hot i summer months, this should always be done in the morning before the dairy becomes warm. The cream should then be ; deposited in a jar, placed in the coolest part of the dairy, ; stirred often, and shifted every morning, into a clean and : well-scalded jar, or other vessel. In hot weather, churning should be performed, if possible, every other day, and never less frequently than twice a-week. The operation ought to be moderate, equable, and uninterrupted. In summer, the churn ought to be chilled with cold water before the cream be put into it; and during the process of churning, it should be immersed in cold water, to the depth of a foot or so, pro- vided a pump-churn be used ; to a barrel-churn, wet cloths may be applied. In winter, heat must be cautiously em- ployed. It is better to steep the churn for some time in warm water, than to pour w'ater into it before churning ; it may be placed in the warmest part of the house, but not close to the fire. The cows should not be fed with turnips till after they are milked, otherwise the milk and butter will have an un- pleasant taste; late in the season, when the turnips are not so good, this precaution may be insufficient. To counteract the effects of the turnip, or any other green food, boil two ounces of saltpetre, or the same quantity of cream of tartar, in a quart of water ; and, when cold, add a table-spoonful, or more, if necessary, of the liquid, every other day, to the collected cream. METHOD OF MAKING UP BUTTER. When the butter is sufficiently gathered in the churn, which is known by the largeness of the lumps and the clean- ness of the dashers, it is taken out, kneaded in a bowl, or