103 VEAL. Strain and season it with white pepper, salt, and mushroom powder; thicken it with butter and flour ; and a little before serving, add three or four table-spoonfuls of cream. BROWN ROLLKLOPS OF VEAL. Cut off some thin slices from a fillet of veal, and beat them. Take part of the fat from the loin and kidney ; mince it finely, with a small bit of veal, and six anchovies ; season with salt, pounded ginger, and mace ; put it over the slices of veal, and roll them up. Dip them into the beaten yolk of an egg, and then into gi’ated bread ; repeat this a second time, and fry them of a nice brown colour in clarified beef dripping; then stew them in some good gravy, adding a little walnut pickle and half a pint of white wine. VEAL ROLL. Bone a small breast of veal, and spread over it a rich and highly-seasoned forcemeat. Cut four hard-boiled eggs the long way into four pieces, and lay them in rows, with green pickles between each row. Roll up the veal tightly, and sew it; then put it into a cloth, and bind it with tape. Lay a slice of ham over it, and put it into a sauce-pan, together with some strong stock, and a little whole pepper, and stew it for three hours. Make a rich gravy, and boil it up with a little white wine and lemon juice or lemon pickle; pour it over the veal; add some egg and forcemeat balls, and garnish with cut green pickles. This dish is very good when cold. TO STEW A BREAST OF VEAL. Half roast the veal till of a light brown, then stew it over a stove for two hours, in a rich gravy, with a shalot, three cloves, a blade of mace, a little walnut pickle, some oyster liquor, and a few small mushrooms. Half an hour before serving, add a little anchovy liquor. Garnish with cut lemon, and curled parsley. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW A BREAST OF VEAL. Cut out the blade bone, and stuff the hole with a nice forcemeat; sew it up, half roast it, and make a quart of gravy of the bones and trimmings ; season it with whole pepper, two blades of mace, a bit of lemon-peel, a large onion, some salt, and a bunch of parsley. Strain and thicken it with butter rolled in flour; put in the veal and a table-spoonful of vinegar; let it stew nearly two hours. A little before serving, add a table-spoonful of lemon pickle, and a glass of white wine. Forcemeat balls may be served with it.