PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS 242 ANOTHER WAY TO NAKE PLUM PUDDING. One pound of fresh beef suet finely minced, one pound of raisins stoned, five table-spoonfuls of flour, five of brown su^ar, the yolks of five, and the whites of three well-beaten eggs, a tea-spoonful of salt; mix all the ingredients thoroughly, and boil it in a cloth for four or five hours. Serve with grated loaf sugar, and melted butter poured over it. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE PLUM PUDDING. Four ounces of apples finely minced, the same quantity of currants cleaned and dried, and of grated bread, tw’o ounces of raisins, stoned and minced, two of pounded loaf sugar, half a nutmeg grated, a little candied orange or lemon- peel, four well-beaten eggs, one ounce and a half of melted butter just warm; mix all the ingredients well together, and boil it in a buttered shape for four hours. If the pudding does not fill the shape, add a slice of the crumb of bread at the bottom. Serve with a sweet sauce. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE PLUM PUDDING. One pound of the finest raisins stoned, three quarters of a pound of beef-suet finely minced, two table-spoonfuls of flour, four of brown sugar, seven well-beaten eggs, a nutmeg grated, a little pounded cinnamon, and half a pint of brandy ; mfx it idl well together, and boil it in a cloth for five hours. PLUM PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS. Half a pound of grated bread, a quarter of a pound of finely-minced suet, a table-spoonful of flour, half a pound of currants cleaned, rather more than two ounces of brown sugar, and a glass of brandy ; mix all together with a sufficient quantity of milk to make it into a stiff batter; boil it in a cloth for four hours. It may be baked, adding half a pound of stoned raisins, and a little candied orange and lemon-peel. TREACLE PUDDING. Half a pound of flour, the same of finely-minced suet; of raisins stoned, and cut small, and well-cleaned currants, a quarter of a pound each, three table-spoonfuls of treacle, and half a pint of water : mix it all well together; boil it in a cloth for four hours, and serve it with a sweet sauce. JENETON PUDDING. Butter a mould, and ornament it with dried cherries or