402 POULTRY. The feeding-room, at once warm, and airy, and large enough to accommodate twenty or thirty fowls, should have perches in it for those birds that are inclined to perch, which they will not be after they have become heavy. The floor may be slightly littered down ; the litter often changed. The greatest cleanliness should be observed, and sandy gravel placed in several layers, and often changed. A sufficient number of troughs, for both water and food, should be placed around, that the stock may feed with as little interruption as possible from each other. This description of feeding room is well adapted for the feeding of young chickens ; and it will be found most advantageous to put them up immediately on their being quitted by the hen, more particularly young cocks, and all those which stand high upon the legs. Under a regular system, it would be preferable to sepa- rate entirely the aquatic from the other poultry, the aquatic to have their houses ranged along the banks of a piece of water, with a fence, and sufficiently capacious walks in front; access to the water by doors, to be closed at will. THE WHITE DARKXNG Is one of the largest of our fowls, and is a plentiful layer; the Polanders are similar, but generally black ; they are very ornamental, and one of the most useful varieties — they are sometimes called everlasting layers, and being least inclined to sit of any other breed, their eggs are frequently set under other hens. The flesh of the game fowl is superior to all other breeds of domestic fowls for richness and delicacy of flavour ; but from their disposition to fight, they are difficult to be reared. Yellow-legged fowls are often of a tender con- stitution, and always inferior in the quality of their flesh. A young and healthy fowl may be known by the fresh and florid colour of the comb, the dryness of the eye, and the nostrils being free from any discharge, and the plumage glossy. The indications of old age are, paleness of the comb and gills, fulness of colour, and a sort of downy stiffiiess in the feathers, length and size of talons, the scales upon the legs becoming large and prominent. Delicate white hens do not lay so many eggs in a cold season as the more hardy coloured varieties. Cordial horse-ball is good to promote laying in cold weather, and also toast and ale. A hen desirous of sitting should not be prevented by any violent means; allowing her to sit will probably not deter her so long from laying as harsh treatment. Those above the common size of their respective varieties are not prefer-