11 SOUPS. cream is stirred in. A good substitute for cream is the same quantity of milk, boiled and mixed with a dessert-spoonful of arrow-root. another white soup. Boil together a knuckle of veal, a fowl, or two chickens skinned, a carrot, a turnip, an onion, some salt, and a little whole white pepper; take out the chickens when tender, cut them in joints, and add them to the soup when strained; beat up the yolks of nine eggs, mix them with a pint of cream and a table-spoonful of well-boiled rice; stir it gra- dually into the soup, and heat it gently before serving. A cow heel that has been previously boiled, cut up in pieces, may be used instead of the chickens. ANOTHER WHITE SOUP. Take a good knuckle of veal, or two or three short shanks ; boil it about four hours, with some whole white pepper, a little mace, salt, two onions, and a small bit of lean ham ; strain it, and when cold take off’ all the fat and sediment; beat up the yolks of six eggs, and mix them with a pint of good cream, then pour the boiling soup upon it by degrees, stirring it well; and if it is liked, add the best part of the gristles. ANOTHER WHITE SOUP. Put on, in four quarts of water, a knuckle of veal, six pounds weight, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, or bacon, two slices of the crumb of bread, one ounce of blanched sweet almonds, put in whole; six middling-sized onions, two heads of celery, some whole white pepper, three blades of mace, a bunch of parsley, and a sprig of thyme ; stew all these gently for eight hours, strain it, and when cold take off all the fat; boil it, and just before serving, take it off the fire, and stir in very gradually a pint of thick cream. ANOTHER WHITE SOUP. Boil in four quarts of water, four pounds of veal, and a fowl, with some whole white pepper, a little mace, and three middling-sized onions whole, and a bunch of parsley ; let it boil three hours, strain it, and put it on again to get quite hot, and, just before serving, stir in gradually half a pint of cream with the yolks of three eggs well beaten. Do not let it boil, as that will make the eggs curdle.