FISH. 44 salt and black pepper, a little cayenne, a table-spoonful of soy; boil and strain it, thicken it with flour and butter, pour it over the carp hot, garnish with the roe fried, cut lemon, and parsley. TO STEW CARP. Scale and clean a brace of carp, reserving the liver and roe ; pour over the fish in a deep pan a pint of vinegar, which may be elder vinegar, if the flavour is preferred, with a little mace, three cloves, some salt and Jamaica pepper, two onions sliced, a fagot of parsley, basil, thyme, and mar- joram ; let them soak an hour, then put them in a stew-pan with the vinegar, and other things, the liver chopped, a pint of Madeira, and three pints of veal stock ; stew them an hour or two, according to their size ; take out the fish and put them over a pan of hot water, to keep warm while the fol- lowing sauce is made : — Strain the liquor, and add the yolks of three beaten eggs, half a pint of cream, a large spoonful of flour, and a quarter of a pound of butter ; stir it constantly, and just before putting it over the carp, squeeze in the juice of a lemon. Boil or fry the roe. Plain boiled carp may be served with this sauce, and is dished in a napkin. another way to stew carp. Clean' a brace of carp, save the blood and roes ; fry the fish slightly in fresh lard; mix the blood well with some cold highly-seasoned beef or mutton stock ; strain it, and add as much port wine as there is of broth ; when it boils, put in the fish, which must be covered with the liquor; let them stew gently till sufficiently done ; take them out, and keep them hot before the fire; put to the liquor two table-spoonfuls of catsup, the same of lemon pickle, and thicken it with a bit of butter kneaded in a table-spoonful of flour, boil it up and pour it over the carp ; garnish the dish with the fried roes, and sippets of fried bread. STEWED FISH. Add to a quart of good gravy, half a pint of Madeira ; of Harvey sauce, lemon juice, essence of oysters, a table- spoonful each ; two of anchovy, and a little pounded mace; thicken it with a bit of butter mixed with flour ; boil it up, and put in slices of fresh cod, ling, haddock, or any firm white fish, and let them stew for fifteen minutes.