376 DOMESTIC WINES, &c. over the mixture, which must be stirred daily for eight days ; it is then to be run through a jelly-bag, and bottled. LEMONADE. Eight lemons and eighty-four Seville oranges being select- ed, the two clearest lemons are to be rubbed over with loaf sugar, and the rinds scraped off into a gallon of spring water ; the fruit is then to be squeezed into a sieve placed over the vessel containing the water, the liquid sweetened with double- refined sugar, and run through a jelly-bag. It is then to be put into bottles, which may be cooled, by laying ice on the necks. TRANSPARENT LEMONADE. The peel of fourteen lemons having been soaked in two quarts of water for two hours, their juice, one pound and a half of sugar, and a quart of white wine, are to be added; a quart of new milk, made boiling hot, is then to be mixed with it, and when it has stood an hour, it is to be strained through a jelly-bag till it runs clear. A RECEIPT FOR JUICE. The proportion of oranges should be double that of lemons; the fruit being selected free from decay, and wiped dry, they are to be squeezed, and the juice strained through a sieve into an earthen pan ; to each pint, according to the acidity of the fruit, a pound and a halfi or a pound and three quar- ters, of double-refined sugar, broken small, is to be added. It must be stirred and skimmed daily, till the sugar is well incorporated, or as long as the scum rises ; and when it has been a month in the pan, it may be bottled. THE DUKE OF NORFOLK'S PUNCH. The thin parings of six lemons, and of six oranges, are to be steeped in a gallon of brandy for twenty-four hours, the vessel containing it being closely covered; three pounds of single-refined sugar are to be clarified with the white of an egg, in a gallon of spring water, and boiled for a quarter of an hour, skimmed, and allowed to stand till cold. The brandy is then to be strained from the parings, and with the strained juice of eighteen oranges and eighteen lemons, added to the boiled sirup, and put into a vessel sufficiently large to contain the whole. It must be closely covered, and when it has stood six weeks, it may be bottled.