SOUPS. 2 To extract the strength from meat, long and slow boiling is necessary, but care must be taken that the pot is never oft' the boil. All soups are the better for being made the day before they are to be used, and they should then be strained into earthen pans. When soup has jellied in the pan, it should not be removed into another, as breaking it will occa- sion its becoming sour sooner than it would otherwise do; when in danger of not keeping, it should be boiled up. It never keeps long with many vegetables in it. The meat used for soups or broths cannot be too fresh. When any animal food is plain boiled, the liquor, with the addition of the trimmings of meat and poultry, makes good soups and gra- vies, as do also the bones of roasted or broiled meat. The gravies left in the dishes answer for hashes, and the liquor in which veal has been boiled, may be made into a glaze by boiling it with a ham bone till reduced to a third or fourth part, and seasoning it with the necessary herbs and spices. All soups and gravies must be carefully skimmed; and when any grease or fat still remains, it may be removed by laying a piece of thick white blotting paper upon the surface, and repeating it till the flit is taken off, or by adding a little flour and cold water mixed together, and letting it boil a few minutes. In boiling weak soups, the pan should be uncovered that the watery particles may escape. Cow-heel jelly improves every sort of rich soup ; and for thickening, truffles, morels, and dried mushrooms, may be used with advantage. Directions are given with each of the following soups for thickening with flour and butter, cream and eggs ; after the cream and eggs are added, the soup must not be allowed to boil. Should brown gravy or mock-turtle soup bo spoiling, fresh- made charcoal, roughly pounded, tied in a little bag and boiled with either, will absorb the bad flavour, and leave it sweet and good. The charcoal may be made by simply put- ting a bit of wood into the fire, and pounding the burnt part in a mortar