PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 201 face, and prevents the steam from rising; and if too slow, it becomes sodden and flat. Raised Crusts require a quick oven ; Puffs and Tartlets, which are filled with preserved fruit, are sufficiently done wlien the paste is baked. When large Pies have been in the oven for a few minutes, a paper is put over them to prevent their being burned. Cheese Cakes, Queen Cakes, Spunge Biscuits, and small Spunge Cakes, require a quick oven till they have risen; afterwards the heat should be more moderate. Plum, Seed Cakes, and all large kinds, must be well soaked, and there- fore do not require a brisk oven. To preserve their colour, a sheet of white paper is put over them, and after they have risen and become firm, they are turned round. To ascertain if a large cake be sufficiently done, a broad-bladed knife is plunged into the centre of it, and if dry and clean when drawn out, the cake is baked ; but if any thing adheres to the blade, it must instantly be returned to the oven, and the door closed. When the oven is too hot, it is better to lessen the fire than to open the door. PUFF PASTS. Weigh an equal quantity of flour and butter ; rub rather more than the half of the flour into one-third of the butter, then add as much cold water as will make it into a stiff paste ; work it until the butter be completely mixed with the flour; make it round, beat it with the rolling-pin, dust it, as also the rolling-pin, with flour, and roll it out towards the opposite side of the slab, or paste-board, making it of an equal thick- ness ; then, with the point of a knife, put little bits of butter all over it; dust flour over and under it, fold in the sides and roll it up; dust it again with flour, beat it a little, and roll it out, always rubbing the rolling-pin with flour, and throwing some underneath the paste, to prevent its sticking to the board. If the butter is not all easily put in at the second time of rolling out the paste, the remainder may be put in at the third ; it should be touched as little as possible w ith the hands.