PRESERVES. 338 TO PRESERVE QUX2TOES. Pare the quinces, and at the end scoop out the core. Put them into a presCTving-pan with water, and closely covered; let them boil till soft and of a fine red ; when they are cold, put them into a sirup made with the same proportion of sugar as of quinces. The following day, boil them two or three times till clear, and the last time for twelve minutes. Cut some small quinces into quarters, put them into a sauce-pan, with as much water as will cover them; boil it fast, till strongly flavoured of the quinces ; strain it through a flannel bag, and boil a pint of the liquor with a pound of sugar till it be a rich sirup, and when cold, pour it over the quinces. TO PRESERVE CUCUIVIBERS. Lay, in a strong brine of salt and water, some large, smooth, green cuciunbers; put vine or cabbage leaves over them, cover the jar or pan, and keep them near the fire till they turn yellow, which may be in three or four days ; take tltem out, wash them, and put them into a pan, with leaves under and over, and a little salt in the water; let them simmer, but not boil; when cold, if not sufficiently greened, again put them into fresh water, with fresh leaves. Take them out when cold, divide them into four, scoop out the seeds and soft part, lay them into cold water, which change frequently through the day, till it be quite clear and tasteless. Clarify the san>e weight of sugar as of cucumbers; soak in boiling w'ater some white ginger; scrape it, and put one ounce to a pound of sugar, and the thinly pared rind of a lemon. Boil them with the sirup, and when cold, put in the cucumbers, and boil them slowly for half an hour ; put them into jars, and in five days, boil them again for ten minutes; carefully take out the cucum- bers, boil up the sirup, and when cold put it over them. ANOTHER WAY TO PRESERVE CUCUIVEBERS. Weigh equal quantities of sugar and the large smooth green cucumbers. Split them down the middle, and take out all the seeds ; cover four large cucumbers, cut in this way, with cold water, mixed with a dessert-spoonful of salt; let them stand by the fireside, or in a warm place, for three or four days. Boil the sugar with as much water as will dissolve it, iuid as long as any scum rises; then put in the cucumbers, and simmer them for a little time. Repeat this till they are clear and green, and, the last time of boiling, add some white ginger soaJted in hot water and scraped, a few grains of all-