PREPARATORY REMARKS. SG3 quantity of thick and sweet raisin wine. The most favour- able temperature for fermentation is about 54 degrees of Fahrenheit. When it languishes from cold, a portion of the fluid may be heated to a high degree of temperature, and mixed with the mass. The sweetest wines are most durable, and are Improved by keeping; the thinnest and briskest ought to be drunk comparatively new. Boiling the fruit tends to make the wine sweet; and white sugar should always be used in preference to brown. The introduction of brandy neither prevents wine from turning sour, nor does it add to its durability, while it increases the expense, and diminishes its salubrity ; but, for those who cannot overcome their pre- judice in favour of established practices, it may be observed, that brandy will be least injurious when added before the fermentation is completed, in the proportion of a quart to every ten gallons. The necessity of making the vats and casks clean requires to be particularly inculcated on the makers of domestic wines. The taste communicated by new casks is not usually thought unpleasant; where it is so, first rinsing with hot salt and water, and afterwards with more hot water, will remove it. Old and musty casks should be unheaded and scraped, then cleaned as before directed ; and lastly, rinsed with a portion of the fermenting liquor made boiling hot. In removing the wine from the vat to the casks, it is requisite that the vat should be tapped at such a distance from the bottom, as to allow the wine to flow clear off the sediment which may have collected at the lower part of the vessel, by which means the scum may be easily prevented from running into the receiver. If the wine is not disengaged from the solid matters, straining will be further necessary. The skins are sometimes fermented wRh the juice in the vat, but they must in no case be introduced into the cask. To clarify the wine completely, prepared fining * may be used in the propor- tion of a wine-glassful to every five gallons of liquor; also isinglass or whites of eggs; half an ounce of isinglass, or • Sold by James Edwards, Crutchcd Friars, London.