278 CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. LEMON CUSTi^RD. Boil two glasses of white wine, half a pint of water, and two table-spoonfuls of brandy; when nearly cold, add the grated peel and juice of two lemons, with half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, and the well-beaten yolks of six eggs ; stir it over a slow fire till it thickens, pour it into a basin, and stir now and then till cold; put it into a dish, or cups, with sifted loaf sugar over the top. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE LEMON CUSTARD. Put the juice of four lemons, with three ounces of poun- ded loaf sugar, into a deep dish. Boil the grated peel of one lemon and two ounces of pounded loaf sugar in a quart of cream, and pour it over the juice and sugar. It will keep for four days. TURNING OUT CUSTARD. Mix, with the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, a pint of new milk, half an ounce of isinglass dissolved, or enough of calf’s- feet stock to stiffen it, and two laurel leaves ; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, and stir it over a slow fire till it thickens ; pour it into a basin, and stir it till a little cooled, then pour it into cups to turn out when quite cold. Beat the yolks of two eggs with a little cream; add it to nearly half a pound of brown sugar burnt; strain it through a sieve, and when cold, pour it round the custards. ORANGE CUSTARD. Sweeten the strained juice of ten oranges with pounded loaf sugar ; stir it over the fire till hot, take off the scum, and when nearly cold, add to it the beaten yolks of twelve eggs, and a pint of cream ; put it into a sauce-pan, and stir it over a slow fire till it thickens. Serve in cups or a dish. DURHAM CUSTARD. To a pint of cream add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and about a third of a pint of mild strong ale ; sweeten, and stir it over the fire till it nearly boils, then pour it into a dish, in the bottom of which is laid thin toasted bread, cut into square bits. RICE CUSTARD. Mix a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, one ounce of sifted ground rice, five or six bitter almonds, blanched and i