282 CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. ARROW-ROOT JELLY. Steep for some hours, in two table-spoonfuls of water, the peel of a lemon, and three or four bitter almonds pounded; strain, and mix it with three table-spoonfuls of arrow-root, the same quantity of lemon juice, and one of brandy; sweeten, and stir it over the fire till quite thick, and when quite cold, put it into jelly glasses. RUM JELLY. Clarify, and boil to a sirup, a pound of loaf sugar ; dis- solve one ounce of isinglass in half a pint of w'ater ; strain it through a sieve into the sirup when it is half warm, and when nearly cold, stir in a quart of white wine; mix it well, and add one or two table-spoonfuls of old Jamaica rum, stir it for a few minutes, and pour it into a mould, or into glasses. PUNCH JELLY. Dissolve one ounce of isinglass in five or six tea-cupfuls of water; strain, and add to it, when boiling hot, one tea-cup- ful and a half of brandy, the same of rum, and one of lemon juice, with half a pound of pounded loaf sugar ; stir till the sugar is dissolved, and pour it into a shape. ORANGE JELLY. Squeeze the juice of eight oranges and six lemons; grate the peel of half the fruit, and steep it in a pint of cold water; mix it with the juice, three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, and one ounce and a quarter of isinglass ; put it into a sauce- pan, and stir it till it boils; let it boil for a few minutes, strain it through a jelly-bag till clear, and put it into a mould, or glasses. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE ORANGE JELLY. Steep the thinly-pared rinds of four bitter, two sweet oranges, and two lemons, in a pint of cold water for twelve hours ; strain and boil with one ounce of isinglass till dis- solved ; then add the juice of the oranges and lemons ; sweet- en with pounded loaf sugar, and boil it for one minute. Strain it through a jolly-bag ; put it into a mould, and turn it out the following day. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE ORANGE JELLY. Dissolve three quarters of an ounce of isinglass in half a pint of water ; ,add it to a cjuart of cream, and the strained