CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 285 lemon-peel; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, and stir it over a slow fire till it is as thick as a custard, but do not allow it to boil; pour it, when a little cool, into a glass dish or custard-cups ; put sifted loaf sugar over the top. GOOSEBERRY FOOL. Scald a quart of gooseberries with half a pint of water ; when quite soft, rub the pulp through a sieve. Boil half a pint of milk, and the same quantity of cream, with half the peel of a lemon, and a stick of cinnamon; strain it when nearly cold, and mix it with the pulped fruit, and sweeten with good brown sugar. Serve in glasses or custard-cups. It may be made with three beaten yolks of eggs, and a pint of milk sweetened, and which is to be stirred over the fire till a little thick, and when cold, mixed with the gooseberries, APPLE FOOL. Pare, core, and cut into thin bits, some good stewing apples ; stew them till tender, with a little water, two cloves, a bit of cinnamon, and the peel of half a lemon ; pulp half a pound through a sieve, and add the same weight of brown sugar, the juice of a lemon, and the whites of two eggs ; beat them all together for an hour. Serve it upon rich cream, or a boiled custard, in a glass dish. It may be made in the same way as the gooseberry fool, as may also stewed rhubarb. STEWED PEARS. Slice a small beet-root, and boil it in a quart of water, strain, and boil in it eight pears peeled and cut into half, three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, and the peel of one lemon ; cover the sauce-pan closely, and stew them till quite tender. A little before they are taken off the fire, add the juice of a lemon. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW PEARS. Pare, cut into quarters, and take out the core of some good baking pears ; throw them as they are done into cold water. To a pound of fruit allow a quarter of a pound of brown sugar, and three cloves ; put them into a sauce-pan, cover them with cold water, keep the pan closely covered, and stew them gently till red and tender; add, just before serving, a glass of port wine. They may be eaten hot or cold, with cream, after dinner or at supper.