455 BEES. a piece of woollen cloth till it ceases to smart, and apply goulard-water, laudanum, or vinegar and spirits, as may be soonest attained; or wash with spirit of ammonia, and wrap a piece of linen about the part, steeped in spirits of wine. If the pain continue six hours, put on a hot poultice of bread and milk, and change it every four hours. A UST OF PX.ANTS FROM WHICH BEES EXTRACT THE GREATEST QUANTITY OF HONEY. Mignonette, heath, furze, white clover, thyme, particu- larly lemon thyme, rosemary, balm, beans, and every species of pulse, all resinous trees, borage, wild mustard, and golden rod; this last begins to blow when all other flowers have faded, and continues to blow till the middle of November; it will grow in the worst soil, and should be particuLriy cultivated in the vicinity of an apiary. THE HUISH HIVE Is made of straw, in the form of a flower-pot inverted, but open at both ends, and having a band of straw projecting from the inside about two inches from the top ; upon this band are placed seven bars of well-seasoned wood, about one and a half inch broad, and a quarter of an inch thick ; they are slightly fastened down with small nails, then covered with thin gauze or net-work, and again with a circular board, in which small holes are made, to permit the steam to escape from the body of the hive. The whole to have a convex cover of straw, manufactured as the hive, and made to fit in like the cover of a sauce-pan. At any time or season of the year, when some honey-comb is required, or at the end of the season, when the bees are to be deprived of their super- fluous store, remove the top and other coverings, and take the side bars out, from which having cut the honey-comb, replace them as before : the operation is facilitated by having some vacant bars ready to supply the places of the full ones. When the bees, by lying out in clusters, indicate that they stand in need of room, instead of an addition at the bottom, as in the common hive, this hive need only be deprived of a part of the comb attached to one or more of the bars. In time of snow, or when robbery is threatened, the centre should be closed by a tin wicket, or by a piece of lead with holes made in it to admit air. ANOTHER HIVE. The hive is formed as the common cottage-hive, being