346 PRESERVES. a lawn sieve, till quite white, pounded loaf sugar. Place them in a cool oven, and turn and dust them with sugar till dry. RASPBERRY VINEGAR. Bruise a quart of fresh-gathered raspberries in a china basin; pour over it a pint of good vinegar, cover it closely . let it stand three days, and stir it daily; strain it through a flannel bag; let it drip as long as any thing will come from it, but do not press it; to a pint of the liquor put one pound of pounded loaf sugar, boil it ten minutes, and take oflT the scum as it rises. When cold, bottle and cork it tightly. A glass of brandy may be added to a quart of raspberry vinegar. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE RASPBERRY VINEGAR. Fill a dry clean bottle with raspberries, and put as much vinegar as the bottle will contain ; stop it closely, and let it stand for a month; then strain it, and to a pint of the liquor put a pound of loaf sugar ; boil it for half an hour; skim it. When cold, bottle, and cork it tightly. SIRUP OF CURRANTS, RASPBERRIES. OR MULBERRIES. Pick the fruit from the stalks ; squeeze the juice, and let it stand ten days or a fortnight, or till the fermentation ceases, which may be known by the scum cracking; carefully take otF the scum, and pour the juice gently into a fresh vessel; let it stand twenty-four hours, and again pour it off; to one pound of pounded loaf sugar, allow thirteen ounces of the juice; put it into a preserving-pan, and when it begins to boil, strain it through a jelly-bag, and bottle it when cold. Burie pears boiled in a little of the sirup are beautiful BLACK CURRANT LOZENGES. Put six quarts of clean-picked black currants into a pre- serving-pan ; with the hand bruise them as long as the heat will admit; squeeze them through a sieve, and to every pint of juice put four ounces of good brown sugar ; boil and stir it for three quarters of an hour, and then pour it thinly over saucers or small plates, and dry it for three successive days before the fire ; cut it into small dice, or with a turnip-scoop; lay them upon white paper in a box. Or the cakes may be cut into lozenges as they are required. A little dissolved isinglass may be added while the juice is boiling.