PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 212 per ; stew them till the gizzards be tender ; take them out, and put them into the pie-dish, season them with more pepper and salt, strain the liquor, and add half a pint of it with a glass of port wine ; when cold, put puff paste round the edge of the dish, and cover it with the same. A beef-steak, well- seasoned, may be laid in the bottom of the dish. ANOTHER GIBLET PIE. Stew the giblets in a little water, wdth an onion stuck with two or three cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, some salt, and whole black pepper; cut a fowl into joints, skin and w’ash it, season it with white pepper, salt, and half an onion finely minced. Take out the onion, herbs, and whole pepper ; put the fowl, giblets, and gravy, into a dish, add a glass of white wine, and two table-spoonfuls of mushroom catsup; cover the dish with puff paste, and bake it for an hour. CHICKEN PIE. Pick clean, and singe the chickens ; if they are very young, keep them whole, and truss them as for boiling ; if large, cut them into joints, and take off the skin, wash and dry them well, season them with salt, white pepper, grated nutmeg and mace mixed, and if whole, put into them a bit of butter rolled in flour, and a little of the mixed spices ; lay them into a dish w’ith the livers, gizzards, and hearts well seasoned, add half a pint of white stock, a glass of w'hite wine, a table- spoonful of lemon pickle, or some pickled mushrooms, and the yolks of five hard-boiled eggs ; cover wdth a puff paste, and bake it for an hour. Slices of cold ham and forcemeat balls may be added to this pie. Or, wash in cold water two or three ounces of macaroni; break it into small bits, simmer it for nearly half an hour in milk and water, drain, and put it with the chickens into the dish, and also three quarters of an ounce of butter. Omit the lemon pickle, or pickled mushrooms, when macaroni is added. PIGEON PIE. Draw, pick, singe, and wash six or eight newly-killed pigeons; cut off the pinions, necks, and feet, truss them, put into each bird a bit of butter mixed with flour, and rolled in pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg mixed ; rub the pigeons and giblets over with the seasoning, as also one or two slices of tender beef, which put into the bottom of the dish, and add the pigeons and gjblets ; strew over a good deal of the season- ing, and put in half a pint of rich brown stock, w'ith a little