53 FISH. salmon in, and when it boils, put in the trout, and let them i^oil fast from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to their size. Sauce: — Melted butter. TO TRY TROUT. Cut off the fins, clean, and gut them ; dust them with flour, and dip tliem into the yolk of an egg beaten; strew grated bread crumbs over them, and fry them in fresh drip- ping ; lay them upon the back of a sieve before the fire to drain. Sauce : — Melted butter, with a table-spoonful of catsup and one of lemon pickle in it. When they are small, roll them in oatmeal before they are fried. TO BROIL TROUT Cut off the fins, and cut the fish down the back, close to the bone, and split the head in two. Another way is, after they have been cut open, to rtib a little salt over them ; let them lie three or four hours, and then hang them up in the kitchen. They will be ready to broil the next morning for breakfast. TO COLLAR TROUT. Wash them clean, split them down the back, bone, and dry them well in a cloth ; season them well with finely- pounded black pepper, salt, and mace ; roll them tight, and lay them close into a dish ; pour over them an equal quantity of vinegar and beer, with two or three bay leaves, and some whole black pepper ; tie over the dish a sheet of buttered paper, and bake them an hour. TO POT TROUT OR GRILSE. Mix together the following quantity of finely-pounded spices:—One ounce of cloves, lialf an ounce of Jamaica pepper, quarter of an ounce of black pepper, quarter of an ounce of cayenne, two nutmegs, a little mace, and two tea- spoonfuls of ginger ; add the weight of the spices, and half as much again of salt, and mix all thoroughly. Clean the fish, and cut off the heads, fins, and tails ; put a tea-spoonful of the mixed spices into each fish, and lay them into a deep earthen jar, with the backs downwards ; cover them with clarified butter, tie a paper over the mouth of tjie jar, and bake them slowly for eight hours. When the back bone is tender, the fish are done enough. Take them out of the jar, and put them into a milk-pan with the backs upwards ; cover