802 CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. SXIYIPLE CAKES. Rub lightly into half a pound of dried flour a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and a quarter of a pound of sifted loaf sugar ; make it into a paste with a beaten egg, roll it out thin, cut it into round cakes, and bake them upon tins. They may be baked upon a girdle, putting the cakes upon white paper, and a tin cover over them. MADELON CAKES. Take three quarters of a pound of dried and sifted flour, one pound of eggs, and one of pounded and sifted sugar ; then beat the eggs well, add the sugar, flour, and grated peel of two lemons, two table-spoonfuls of brandy, and one pound of oiled butter stirred in, the last thing; with a spoon, nearly fill small tins dusted with flour. FRENCH BISCUIT. Weigh five eggs, and their weight in dried and sifted flour, and in finely-pounded loaf sugar; beat tlie whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and by degrees beat in the sugar and the flour, and then add the beaten yolks; with a spoon, half fill yellow tea-cups, previou.sly rubbed with butter, and sift loaf sugar over the top. Bake them in a quick oven. Or, drop the biscuit in a round form upon sheets of white paper buttered; sift sugar over them. SUGAR BISCUITS. The weight of eight eggs in finely-pounded loaf sugar, and of four in dried flour; beat separately the whites and yolks ; with the yolks beat the sugar for half an hour, then add the whites and the flour, and a little grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, or pounded cinnamon. Bake them in yellow tea-cups, or drop them upon paper, as the French biscuits. SCOTS CHRISTMAS BUN. Take four pounds of raisins stoned, two and a half of currants well cleatied and dried, half a pound of almonds blanched, of candied orange and lemon-peel a quarter of a pound each, cut small; of pounded cloves, Jamaica pepper, and ginger, half an ounce each, four pounds of flour, and twenty-two ounces of butter. Then rub the butter with the flour, till well mixed together ; add a little warm water, and a quarter of a pint of fresh good yeast, and work it into a light smooth paste; cut off nearly one-third of the paste, to