336 PRESERVES. pounded loaf sugar ; stir, and take off the scum ; boil till it will jelly. TO PRESERVE APRICOTS. Weigh equal quantities of fine apricots and of loaf sugar. Pare the fruit with a silver knife, and take out the stones carefully; as they are done, strew a little pounded sugar over them. Boil the sugar as directed under that head (p. 326); put in the apricots, and let them just simmer; take off the pan, put over it a piece of white paper, and let it stand till nearly cold; put it again on the fire, let them simmer as before, and again cool them; repeat this three or four times, and the last time let them boil till quite trans- parent, which they will probably be in a quarter of an hour ; remove the scum carefully, and a few minutes before taking them off the fire, blanch the kernels, and add them; or the kernels, after being blanched, may be put into a small jar, covered with spirits of wine, and allowed to stand till the jars are tied up, when a few may be put upon the top of each. If the stones cannot be easily extracted, the apricots may be divided into halves ; or they may be preserved without being stoned. The Moor Park apricot, the best for eating, and excellent for jam, cannot be preserved so whole as the common apricot. ANOTHER WAY TO PRESERVE APRICOTS. Allow equal weight of fruit and finely-pounded loaf »ugar; dip the apricots into hot water; pare them with a silver knife ; if large, take out the stones carefully, and as' they are done, roll them well in sugar ; lay them into a large dish, cover them completely with the sugar, and let them remain for thirty hours; then pour off the juice and sugar, boil and skim it; add the apricots, and boil them gently for half an hour. When to be skimmed, take the preserving- pan off the fire. Blanch the kernels, and add them. The apricots should not be quite ripe. APRICOT JAM. Weigh equal quantities of pounded loaf sugar and of apri- cots ; pare and cut them quite small, as they are done, strew over them half of the sugar. The following day, boil the re- mainder, and add the apricots ; stir it till it boils, take off the scum, and when perfectly clear, which may be in twenty minutes, add part of the kernels blanched, and boil it two or three minutes.