CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 289 low dish ; when cold, pour over the top a pint of rich cream mixed with pounded loaf sugar, six dessert-spoonfuls of brandy, and some grated nutmeg. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE DEVONSHIRE JUNKET. Turn some new milk from the cow with a little rennet; sweeten some thick cream, add a little pounded cinnamon, make it scalding hot, and when cold, pour it over the curd, and put a little wine and sugar into the bottom of the dish. IRISH ROCK. Blanch a pound of sweet and an ounce of bitter almonds; pick out a few of the sweet almonds, and cut them like straws, and blanch them in rose water; pound the rest in a mortar with a table-spoonful of brandy, four ounces of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and half a pound of salt but- ter well washed; pound them till the mass looks very white, and set it in a cool place to stiffen ; then dip two table-spoons into cold water, and with them form the paste, as much like an egg as possible ; place in the bottom of a glass dish, a small plate or saucer turned, and lay the rock high up; stick over it the cut almonds with green sweetmeats, and orna- ment with a sprig of myrtle. RICE CAKE, A SWEET DISH. Wash well and drain a quarter of a pound of rice. Boil with a quart of fresh cream the peel of one lemon, and when nearly cold, take it out, and put in the rice; place the sauce-pan over a slow fire, and when the rice has swol- len, add a little salt, and sweeten with pounded loaf sugar ; when the rice is quite tender, add the yolks of eight eggs, and mix in gradually the beaten whites, with a good bit of fresh butter; clarify a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and pour it into a mould; turn this round, that the butter may equally cover every part of it, then pour out the butter, and strew over the inside a layer of grated bread ; with a paste brush, or a slip of paper, sprinkle all over it some of the cla- rified butter, add more grated bread, pour in the rice, and bake it in a moderate oven for an hour. Turn it out upon a dish, and serve it with or without a garnishing of preserved raspberries, cherries, or currants. CROQUETTES WITH MARMAIJVDE. Prepare the rice as in the receipt for a rice-cake, a sweet dish ; when it is cold, form it into rolls of the size of a cork, T