155 GAME. TO STEW laOORFOWL. Truss them, keeping on their heads, but draw the legs within the body; mix well some salt and pepper with flour and a piece of butter, and put a small bit into each bird ; fry them all over of a nice brown in butter. Brown some but- ter and flour, and add to it some good gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, mace, and two cloves pounded; boil up the sauce, put in the moorfowl, and let them stew very slowly till tender. A little before taking them off the fire, add a table- spoonful of mushroom catsup. If the birds are old, stew them for two hours; if young ones, half that time. Cold roasted moorfowl are dressed exactly in the same way, only cut into joints, and stewed very gently nearly as long. Half an hour before serving, a small tea-cupful of port wine sliould be added. TO STEW A HARE. Cut a hare into pieces ; put it into a sauce-pan, with half a pint of port wine, the same of good gravy, and a pint of cider, two or three small onions, a quarter of a pound of butter, some salt and pepper. Let it all stew till the hare be quite tender, and the liquor a good deal reduced. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW A HARE. Bone a hare ; make a sauce with the bones and a little beef stock, adding sweet herbs, spices, and some port wine ; thicken it with browned butter and flour. Stuff the hare with forcemeat, or with equal quantities of minced mutton and suet, well seasoned ; put it into the boiling sauce, and let it stew two hours. Place the hare on a dish, and strain the sauce over it. TO ROAST AND STUFF A HARE. When the hare is skinned and cleaned, lay it into cold water for three or four hours, changing the water several times; then rub it well with a little salt, and wash it tho- roughly ; dry it well. Make a stuffing of the raw liver minced, by no means parboiled, grated bread crumbs, twice the quan- tity of chopped fat bacon, and a bit of butter ; season with grated nutmeg, lemon thyme, lemon-peel, pepper, and salt; an anchovy maybe added ; bind with a beaten egg, put it into the hare, sew it up, and truss it properly. Put into the dripping-pan warm salt and water; baste the hare well till all the blood be out of it, pour away the water, and put in a