18G VEGETABLES. (lrippin"-pan ; baste them now and then with a little of the meat dripping, and when one side is browned, turn the other; they should all be of an equal colour. POTATO RIBANOS. Wash four or five large potatoes, scrape them, and cut them into thin stripes round and round, keeping as nearly to one width as possible ; throw them into cold water as they are cut, and then fry them of a light brown in boiling beef dripping ; strew over them a little salt and pepper, and before serving, drain them upon a dish turned up before the fire. POTATO EGGS. Mash perfectly smooth six or seven boiled potatoes, add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, the beaten yolk of an egg, half an onion pounded, a little boiled minced parsley, some pepper and salt; make it into the form of small eggs or pears, roll them into a well-beaten egg, and then into grated 1)1 ead seasoned with white pepper and salt ; fry them in plenty of lard or dripping till they are of a fine brown colour ; lay them before the fire to drain ; serve them with a fringe of fried jiarsley. ANOTHER WAY TO IVIAKE POTATO EGGS. Mash perfectly smooth eight or ten boiled potatoes ; add two ounces of butter, a tea-cupful of cream, a little salt, and one or two onions finely minced; make it into the form of eggs or small potatoes; brush them over with a beaten egg; lay them upon a dish, and place it in a dripping-pan; turn them carefully till they are all browned alike. TO FRY POTATOES, RAW OR COLD. WASH, peel, and put them into cold water for one or two hours ; cut them into slices about lialf an inch thick, and fry them a light brown in boiling clarified beef suet. Cold boiled potatoes, cut into slices, may be done in the same manner. TO ROAST POTATOES. Wash them very clean, put them into a Dutch oven, turn them frequently, and roast them for two hours, taking care not to let them burn. Or, they may be parboiled, and then roasted. TO BOIL YELLOW OR LARGE WHITE TURNIPS. Wash, pare, and throw them into cold water ; put them