200 PREPARATORY REMARKS. of it before the floured cloth is tied on. The pan, dish, or shape, in which a pudding is to be either boiled or baked, must always be buttered before it is filled. It is an improve- ment to puddings in general to let them stand some time after being prepared either for boiling or baking. When a pudding is to be boiled, it must be put on in a covered pot, in plenty of boiling water, and never for a moment be allowed to be off the boil until ready to be served. As the water wastes, more, and always boiling, must be added. A Plum Pudding is the better for being mixed the day before it is to be boiled. It may be useful to observe, that this pudding will keep for months after it is dressed, if the cloth be allowed to remain upon it, and if, when cold, it be covered with a sheet of foolscap paper, and then hung up in a cool place. When about to be used, it must be put into a clean cloth, and again boiled for an hour; or it may be cut into slices, and broiled as wanted. If, in breaking e^s, a bad one should accidentally drop into the basin amongst the rest, the whole will be spoiled; and therefore they should be broken one by one into a tea-cup. When the whites only of eggs are re- quired for jelly, or other things, the yolks, if not broken, will keep good for two or three days, if the basin they are in be covered. A slab of marble, stone, or slate, is preferable to wood, for rolling out piiste on. The rolling-pin, cutters, and every other implement used in these processes, must be kept par- ticularly clean ; they should always be washed immediately after being used, and then well dried. Before using butter for Paste, it is laid for some time into cold water, which is changed once or twice. When salt butter is used, it is well worked in two or three waters. If it should not be con. venient to make the paste immediately before it is baked, it will not suffer from standing, if made early in the morning, and the air excluded from it, by putting first a tin cover over the pie or tartlets, and above that a folded tablecloth. To ascertain if the oven be of a proper heat, a little bit of paste may be baked in it, before any thing else be put in. Puff paste requires rather a brisk oven. If too hot, it binds the sur-