210 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. green pickles, and the red part of a carrot cut to fancy ; add more meat-seasoning, and all the gravy ; when the shape is full, put it into an oven for twenty minutes, and when quite cold, turn it out. If rightly done, it will have a glazed ap- pearance, and the variety of colours looks well by candle- light. MUTTON PIE. Cut into neat steaks a loin or the best end of a neck of mutton ; pare off the skin and fat, season them highly with pepper and salt mixed, and a little finely-minced onion. If the loin, divide the kidney in two, season it with pepper and salt, lay the steaks into a dish, and add a little stock made with the trimmings, three table-spoonfuls of port wine, and one of mushroom catsup; cover the dish with puff paste. PORK PIES. With a raised crust, make round shapes about the size of a small plate, and nearly three inches high ; pare off the rind and part of the fat, and cut into neat short steaks a loin or neck of pork ; beat them with a rolling-pin, season them highly with pepper and salt, pack them closely into the shapes, wet the edges, put on the top, and pinch it all round ; make a small hole in the middle of the crust, and if to be eaten hot, pour in, before serving, some white gravy, with a little white wine, and a tea-spoonful of vinegar in it. They will keep good in cold weather for a fortnight or three weeks, and may be served for breakfast or luncheon. VENISON PASTY. Cut a neck or breast into small steaks ; rub them over with a seasoning of sweet herbs, grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt; fry them slightly in butter ; line the sides and edges of a dish with puff paste, lay in the steaks, and add half a pint of rich gravy made with the trimmings of the venison; add a glass of port wine, and the juice of half a lemon, or a tea-spoonful of vinegar ; cover the dish with puff paste, and bake it nearly two hours. Some more gravy may be poured into the pie Wore serving it. ANOTHER VENISON PASTY. Cut into small pieces the meat of a breast or shoulder, fat and lean ; season them highly with pepper, salt, and a little beaten mace ; place them in a dish, and put some thin slices of butter over the top ; wet the edges, and cover the dish