384 MISCELLANY. three pints of rain water, and in three or four days dissolve the gum in hot water, and add it with the copperas ; shake the bottle frequently for some days. A few cloves may be put into the bottle to prevent the ink from moulding. TO TAKE OUT IRON IVIOULDS. Pound two ounces of cream of tartar, and mix thoroughly with it one ounce of salt of sorrel; keep it in a bottle closely corked. Fill a metal water-plate with boiling water ; wet the iron mould ; place it upon the plate, and rub it with a little of the powder till it disappears; then rinse it in water. Or mix in a tea-cup one tea-spoonful of oil of vitriol, and two of common salt; place it in warm ashes ; hold the strained part over it, and the stain will soon disappear ; then wash the part in cold water. NEATS’ FOOT OIL. Boil the feet for several hours, as for making stock for jelly ; skim off the oily matter from time to time as it rises, and when it ceases to come up, pour off the water; next day take off the cake of fat and oil which will be found on the top; boil it and the oil before obtained, together with a little cold water ; let it cool, pour off the water, and bottle the oil for use. This oil, being perfectly pure, and free from smell, may be used with the French lights in a sick room. TO DISCHARGE ALL STAINS WHICH ARE NOT METALLIC. Mix two tea-spoonfuls of water with one of spirit of salt; ] let the stain lie in it for one or two minutes ; then rinse the I article in cold water. This will be found particularly useful in removing stains from white doilys. Or, to remove port wine stains, cover them thickly, while wet, with salt, and instantly immerse the article in boiling water; repeat the process if the stains do not disappear at first. TO WASH PAINT. Brush off the dust with a small long-haired brush ; mix finely-powdered whitening and bullock’s gall, till of the con- sistence of a batter ; with a flannel rub it on the walls up and down, and then wash it off with a clean flannel and plenty of cold water, and when nearly dry, rub it hard with a clean linen cloth; the unpleasant smell from the gall will go off almost immediately. If the paint is not very much soiled, it may be washed merely with the whitening mixed with cold water, first wetting below the hand.