390 MISCELLANY. TO CLEAN DECANTERS. Roll up, in small pieces, some coarse brown paper or blotting-paper; wet and soap them, and put them into the decanter, with a little pearl-ashes ; fill in some lukewarm water, shake it well for a few minutes, or, if very dirty, let them stand some hours ; then rinse the decanters with clean cold water. If this does not remove the crust of wine which may be at the bottom, use stable litter, with which nearly half fill the decanter, adding some cold water, and let it re- main for several hours; shake it well, and rinse with clean cold water till perfectly clean. The stable litter will also be found an effectual cleanser for bottles of any kind, however dirty; but it will be the less required, and much trouble will be spared, if all the bottles used throughout the day be rinsed ut night with cold water before being put away. To clean cut crystal, rub it well with a damp spunge, dipped in whitening; then take a clean brush and brush it off; afterwards wash the vessel in cold water. To loosen glass stoppers. — When glass stoppers cannot easily be taken out, drop on them a little olive oil; place the decanter or bottle before the fire, and in a few minutes they will become loose. Or, dip a cloth into hot water, wrap it round the neck of the decanter or bottle, taking care not to touch the stopper, which in a few seconds may be taken out. TO CLEAN LOOKING-GLASSES. Take a bit of soft spunge, well washed, and cleaned from every thing gritty; just dip it into water, and squeeze it out again, and then dip it into spirits of wine, or any other spi- rits ; rub it over the glass, then dust it over with some powder-blue, or whitening, sifted through muslin ; rub it lightly and quickly off again, with a soft cloth ; then take a clean cloth, and rub it well again, and finish by rubbing it with a silk handkerchief. If the frames be varnished, great care must be taken not to touch them with the spunge, or with any thing damp. To clean the frames, take a little cot- ton wool, and rub them with it. Pictures should be rubbed lightly with cotton wool, or brushed with a feather brush. TO CLEAN HATS. When a hat gets wet, wipe it as dry as may be with a cloth or silk handkerchief, then brush it with a soft brush; when it gets nearly dry, use a harder brush ; and if the fur