27 SOUPS. POTATO SOUP. Potato soup is made with beef or mutton scraps, boiled in water till the strength be extracted. Strain the liquor, and put it into the pot; after washing some potatoes, scrape off the skin, cut them into quarters with some onions, season with pepper and salt, and boil them an hour and a half in the strained liquor, then press them through a cullender, and put the soup on to boil a little time. It may be made very good with butter only, a quarter of a pound of which is added after the, potatoes have been put through the cul- lender. Half a pint of cream, or good milk, may be added just before serving. POTATO FLOUR SOUP. Have three pints of gi-avy soup boiling on the fire. Mix, in half a pint of cold soup, six spoonfuls of potato flour, and stir it into the sauce-pan, first drawing it to a side ; put it on the fire again, and continue to stir it till it becomes thick, and in five minutes serve it. For the gravy soup, water may be substituted, to which a bit of fresh butter, a little salt, and the beaten yolks of two eggs, may be added; or milk may be used, seasoning it with sugar, a spoonful of orange-flower water, and, if liked, the beaten yolks of eggs. OYSTER SOUP. Boil in water the crumb of two twopenny rolls, with a few blades of mace, a tea-spoonful of whole white pepper, and four onions cut small. Pick out the spice, and rub the bread and onions through a hair sieve, then add it to three quarts of well-seasoned strong veal stock. Rub down three ounces of butter, with a table-spoonful of flour, and mix it gradually with half a pint of the soup, and then stir all well together. When it has boiled a short time, add with their liquor half a hundred or more of fine oysters, and let the whole simmer for ten or fifteen minutes. If the soup is not quite salt enough with the liquor of the oysters, a little salt may be added. LOBSTER SOUP. Cut small a dozen of common-sized onions ; put them into a stew-pan with a small bit of butter, a slice or two of lean ham, and a slice of lean beef; when the onions are quite soft, mix gradually with them some rich stock ; let it boil.