MUTTON. 91 TO STEW A FILLET OF MUTTON, OR A BREAST OF BEEF. Put a fillet of mutton or a piece of beef, weighing about seven pounds, into a stew-pan, with a carrot, a turnip, an onion stuck with two or three cloves, and a pint of water. Put round the edge of the stew-pan, a rim of coarse paste, that the cover may be kept verj'^ close, and let it stew gently three hours and a half; take out the meat, skim off the fat, strain and thicken the gravy; have ready some boiled carrots and turnips cut to fancy, add them to the gravy, make all hot, and serve with a garnish of sliced gherkins. TO STEW A LOIN OF MUTTON. Bone and skin the loin ; stew it in a pint of water, turning it frequently; when the liquor is half wasted, take out the loin and strain it, and when cold take off the fat; make a rich highly-seasoned gravy of the bones ; strain and mix it with the liquor the loin was stewed in ; add a tea-cupful of port wine, and some small mushrooms; thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour; put in the mutton, and heat it thoroughly; garnish with pickles. TO KEBBOB A LOIN OF MUTTON. Bone a good-sized loin of mutton, and take off all the fat; cut or draw off the outside skin, nearly to the bottom. Mix with grated bread, parsley, thyme, and shalot finely minced, •and season with pepper, salt, pounded mace, grated lemon- peel and nutmeg; rub the beaten yolk of an egg over the mutton and the skin; put a layer of the stuffing, turn the skin over, and sew it at the sides and top; rub more egg, and strew some of the stuffing over the outside. Baste it while roasting with butter, and dredge it three or four times with the stuffing. Serve it with a rich gravy, to which add a glass of port wine and some catsup. TO CALABINE A LOIN OF MUTTON. Cut the loin into pieces, weighing about a pound each ; rub them over with pepper, salt, and grated lemon-peel ; fasten each piece upon the spit or upon a skewer, but not too close; when nearly roasted, strew over them grated bread. Serve with good gravy, and garnish with cut lemon. KEW MINCE Cut a pound of meat from a leg of cold roasted mutton,