1 l.-l VEAL, brains, and tongue; make forcemeat sufficient for the head and some balls with bread crumbs, minced suet, parsley, grated ham, and a little pounded veal, or cold fowl; season with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and lemon-peel; bind it with an egg, beaten up, fill the head with it, which must then be sewed up, or fastened with skew'ers, and tied. V^^hile roasting, baste it well with butter ; beat up the brains W'ith a little cream, the yolk of an egg, some minced parsley, a little pepper and salt; blanch the tongue, cut it into slices, and fry it with the brains, forcemeat balls, and thin slices of bacon. Serve the head with white or brown thickened gravy, and place the tongue, forcemeat balls, and brains round it. Garnish wdth cut lemon. It will require one hour and a half to roast. CALF’S HEAD BIGARREE. Clean and blanch a calf’s head; boil it till the bones will come out easily, then bone and press it between tw'o dishes, so as to give it an oblong form ; beat wdth the yolk of four eggs, a little melted butter, pepper, and salt. Divide the head when cold, and brush it all over with the beaten eggs, and strew over it grated bread ; repeat this twice. With the grated bread, which is put over one half, a good quantity of finely-minced parsley should be mixed ; place the head upon a dish, and bake it of a nice brown colour. Serve it with a sauce of parsley and butter, and with one of good gravy, mixed with the brains, which have been previously boiled and chop- ped, and seasoned with a little cayenne and salt. TO PLAIN BOIL A CALF’S HEAD. Split the head, and take out carefully the brains and tongue; w'ash the head well, and let it lie two or three hours in cold water. Boil it with the tongue and brains gently in plenty of water, till it be quite tender; take out the bones, and pour over the head parsley and butter made very thick ; rub the brains through a sieve ; add to them a little chopped parsley, some pepper, salt, flour, and butter; mix all well together, and put it round the tongue, which may be served as a corner dish, or it may be salted. When salted, the brains, with the addition of a little butter and chopped parsley, may be put over the head, or served in a sauce tureen. ' TO STEW CALF’S HEAD. Boil the head; cut off the meat into square bits, and stew ‘t in some good brown gravy, with a table-spoonful of an- il