MUTTON. 9<5 and put it into beef pickle for six or seven days, when it will be ready for use, and should be plain boiled. Mashed turnips and brocoli, or greens, may be served with it. LEG OF MUTTON WITH VEGETABLES. Cut off all the fat and the end of tlie knuckle of a small tender leg of mutton, and tie it round. Stew it with some weak stock, six onions, three heads of celery, three or four turnips, two or three carrots, and half a cabbage cut small, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Boil all together for a quarter of an hour; take out all the vegetables, and put them into cold water for about twenty minutes; press the water from them, and put them into the stew-pan; add pepper and a little salt, and stew them till the mutton is tender. Serve it with the gravy and vegetables poured over and round it. TO STEW SHEEPS’ TONGUES. Boil three tongues till the skin will come off; split, with- out separating them ; put them into a sauce-pan with some good stock, adding two spoonfuls of cullis, or two spoonfuls of bread chippings boiled in a little stock, and passed through a tammy, a glass of white wine, some parsley, cibol, mush- rooms, and a clove of garlic, all finely minced, a little bit of butter, pepper and salt; let it boil for half an hour, that the sauce may neither be too thin nor too thick, and serve it. SHEEPS' TAILS. Stew five or six tails for three or four hours in some stock, with roots, sweet herbs, pepper and salt; let them cool ; dip them into the beaten yolks of eggs, then into bread crumbs ; fry them of a fine colour, and serve them with fried parsley. Calves and Iambs tails may be done in the same wav. BOILED NECK OF MUTTON. Bone the best end of a neck of mutton, boil it for an hour, take oft the skin, and serve it with turnips mashed with a httle butter and cream. SHEEPS' KIDNEYS BROILED. Wash and dry some nice kidneys; cut them in half, an w ith a small skewer keep them open in imitation of tw ■I litfL’ them With salt and pepper, and dip them int the-rkliro^ ^ ''' them o the gridiron. Serve them in a hot dish, with finely-choppe.