467 APPENDIX—N«. II. ANNA PROPHET’S OX-TAIL SOUP. Four pound of gravy beef, cut into small pieces, and put on in five quarts of water. When it boils, skim it well, and add two carrots, one turnip, four large red onions, a bunch of parsley, and a large table-spoonful of whole black pepper. Let it sim- mer for six or seven hours; strain, and mix with about a pint of the soup, seven ounces of nicely browned flour; stir it into the soup, and then add two large, or three small ox-tails, which have been prepared, as follows, and let the whole simmer for two hours : — Cut the ox-tails into joints, and wash them thoroughly in cold water several times, and then pour boiling water over them; when cold, pour it off, and lay them in fresh cold water for some hours. Brown the flour very gradually in a Dutch oven, frequently stirring it, to prevent its burning. Browned flour is far pre- ferable for thickening hrown sauces, gravies, and soups. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE WHITE SOUP. To three quarts of good white stock, made of rabbits, veal, or the liquor a calf s head was boiled in, put one pound of lean veal, some slices of ham, two or three whole onions, one carrot, a bunch of parsley, and three blades of mace; boil one hour; strain, and add to the liquor the white part of a cold roasted fowl or pheasant, finely pounded, about two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, and the pounded yolks of two hard boiled eggs. Put the whole through a sieve. Mix six well beaten yolks of eggs with one pint of cream warmed, and add it to the soup. Stir it over the fire till thoroughly hot—but not allowed to boil — then add a little salt, and a tea spoonful of pounded sugar. Two or three tea-spoonfuls of common batter mixed with the cream will prevent its curdling. ANOTHER WAY TO BAKE HERRING. Clean them, and take off the heads and fins; season them highly with pepper and salt, add a little saltpetre, grated nut- meg, and a few bay leaves. Pack them in a jar, or deep dish, and cover them with ale, adding a small quantity of vinegar bake them for nine or ten hours.