PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 26S ANOTHER WAY TO DRESS MACARONI. Simmer a quarter of a pound of macaroni in a quart ot milk ; strain, and put it into a sauce-pan, with a pint of cream four table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, one ounce of butter, and a little salt; boil it for ten minutes. Put it into a dish, and brown it with a salamander. ANOTHER WAY TO DRESS MACARONI. Pot the macaroni into boiling milk and water, with a little salt, and about an ounce of fresh butter; let it simmer till tender, drain off the water, and mix with it a cupful of thick cream ; make it quite hot, and if approved, add some grated nutmeg. ANOTHER WAY, PLAIN DRESSED. Throw a little salt into a sauce-pan of boiling water ; put in half a pound of macaroni, let it simmer three quarters of an hour, stir it occasionally, strain off the water ; have ready a breakfast-plateful of grated Dutch cheese, put little bits of butter in the bottom of the dish, then some macaroni, and a layer of cheese; put them alternately, mix all together, and serve it hot. TO MAKE MACARONI. Beat four eggs for eight or ten minutes ; strain them, and stir in flour till stiff enough to work into a paste upon a marble or stone slab ; add flour till it be a stiff paste, and work it well; cut off a small bit at a time, roll it out as thin as paper, and cut it with a paste-cutter or knife into very nar- row strips ; twist, and lay them upon a clean cloth, in a dry, warm place; in a few hours it will be perfectly hard ; put it into a box, with white paper under and over it. It may be cut into small stars, or circles, to be used for soup, and does not require so much boiling as the Italian macaroni. FROMAGE CUIT. Cut half a pound of Cheshire cheese into thin bits, and pound it in a mortar ; add by degrees the well-beaten yolks of two, and the white of one egg, and half a pint of cream ; mix it well together, and bake it for ten or fifteen minutes. RAMAKINS. The well-beaten yolks of four eggs, half a pound of grated cheese, a gill of cream, one ounce of oiled butter; mix all