PRESERVES. 330 the plums, and boil them fifteen minutes ; with a spoon, carefully put them into a basin, and let them stand a day or two ; then boil them ten minutes, or till perfectly transparent; put them into the jars ; strain the sirup through a sieve, and pour it equally over them. WHITE CURRANT JEU.Y. Gathee the fruit upon a dry day, and pick it from the stalks ; pound it in a mortar, and drip the juice through a flannel bag. To every pint allow a pound of fine loaf sugar ; break it small, and with the juice, put it into a preserving pan ; stir it till it boils; skim, and let it boil exactly six mi- nutes ; or the juice may be boiled the same length of time in sugar previously clarified and boiled candy high. TO PRESERVE YELLOW WHITE GOOSEBERRIES, CALLED THE SULPHUR. GATHEa them upon a dry day, and before they are very ripe ; take equal weight of finely-pounded sugar and goose- berries ; top and tail, and prick them with a large needle ; as they are done, strew over them a little sugar. To each pound of gooseberries, allow half a pint of white currant juice, and half a pound of pounded sugar. Put the sugar, gooseber- ries, and juice alternately into the preserving pan, set it over the fire, and shake it every now and then, till the sugar be dissolved, and then carefully remove the fruit from the sides of the pan. When it boils, skim it, and let it boil exactly twenty-four minutes. The large rough red gooseberries are preserved precisely in the same way, and when they come to a boil, must be allowed to boil for twenty minutes. ANOTHER WAY TO PRESERVE GOOSEBERRIES. The tops and tails being removed from the gooseberries, allow an equal quantity of finely-pounded loaf sugar, and put a layer of each alternately into a large deep jar ; pour into it as much dripped currant juice, either red or w'hite, as will dissolve the sugar, adding its weight in sugar ; the following day, put all into a preserving pan, and boil it. TO PRESERVE YELLOW OR GREEN GOOSBBERRXBS. The tops and tails being removed from the gooseberries, slit them up the sides, and with a silver knife, or the top of a tea-spoon, take out the seeds, and put them, with the pulp which adheres to them, into a sieve ; the juice which drains