PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 209 sufficiency of gravy, and the pie will be better without any additional liquid. VEAL FIE. Cut a neck of veal into neat steaks ; season them well with white pepper, salt, mace, and grated nutmeg mixed ; pack them closely into a dish, and put in half a pint of white stock ; five hard-boiled yolks of eggs may be added ; put puff paste on the edge of the dish, and cover with the same. Lambs’ tails may be made into a pie, with lamb chops seasoned in the same manner as the above. ANOTHER VEAL FIE. Cut into steaks a loin or breast of veal; season them high- ly with white pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, mace, and a little lemon-peel mixed; lay them into the bottom of a dish, and then a few slices of sweetbreads seasoned with the spices ; add some oysters, forcemeat balls, and the yolks of hard- boiled eggs, half a pint of white stock, a glass of white wine, and a table-spoonful of lemon pickle ; put puff paste on the edge of the dish, and cover with the same ; bake it for one hour. ANOTHER VEAL FIE. Chop, but not very small, the meat of a cold loin of veal; season it with minced parsley, white pepper, salt, grated le- mon-peel, and nutmeg; add rather more than half a pint of stock made with the bones, thickened with a bit of butter rolled in flour, and seasoned with a tea-spoonful of lemon pickle, and a table-spoonful of white wine ; make a paste of the fat of the loin, and an equal quantity of flour ; rub it to- gether, and mix with it a little cold water, roll it out two or three times, line the sides of the dish, put in the meat, and cover it. SOLID VEAL FIE. Stew in veal stock, till it be perfectly tender and like a jelly, a piece of a knuckle of veal, with the gristles adhering to it; let it cool, and then pull the meat and gristles into small bits ; butter a pie-dish or shape, and lay at regular dis- tances the yolks of some hard-boiled eggs, and some of the white parts cut into rings or strips ; then put over them some bits of the meat and gristle, and strew over it some white pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg mixed ; add a little of the gravy, and then more eggs, with small bits of beet-root, 0