GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. 1C.‘5 ANOTHER WAY IS: About a quarter of an hour before the meat is taken from the fire, put a common dish with a tea-spoonful of salt in it under the meat; pour over it a small tea-cupful of boiling water; when it has all run into the dish, remove it, baste and froth the meat, and pour the gravy into the dish on which the roast is to be served. TO DRAW GRAVY. Put a few pounds of gravy-beef sliced, and a little whole black pepper, into a jar with a cover to fit closely; set the Jar into a pot of cold water, and when it boils, add as it wastes more hot water, and keep it boiling gently for six or seven hours, when the richest gravy imaginable will be ob- tained. It may be used in that state, or reduced with water. TO MAKE A PINT OP RICH GRAVY. Brown a quarter of a pound of butter, dredging in two table-spoonfuls of flour, and stirring it constantly; add a pound of gravy-beef cut into small bits, and two or three onions chopped. When it becomes brown, add some whole black pepper, one carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, and three pint.? of water ; let it boil gently till reduced to one, then strain it, This gravy may be served with roasted turkey or fowl. ESSENCE OF HAM FOR GRAVIES. Pick off all the bits of meat from a ham-bone ; pound it, break the bone, and put both into a sauce-pan, together with nearly half a pint of water, and a bunch of sweet herbs; simmer gently for some time, stirring it occasionally; then ndil a pint of good beef gravy, and some black pepper, and continue to simmer it till it be well flavoured with the herbs ; strain, and keep it for improving rich gravies and sauces of all descriptions. LOBSTER CATSUP. Choose a lobster that is full of spawn, and weighing as nearly as possible three pounds ; pick out all the meat, and pound the red part or coral in a marble mortar; when com- pletely bruised, add the meat, pound and moisten it with a little sherry wine, mix with it a tea-spoonful of cayenne, add the rest of the bottle of sherry, and mix it thoroughly ; put it into two wide-mouthed bottles, and on the top put a