299 CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. the last thing, mix in the currants, together with a glass of brandy. It will require to be beaten during a whole hour. Bake it in a buttered tin. SPUNGE CAKE. Take sixteen ounces of finely-pounded loaf sugar, the same quantity of eggs, and twelve ounces of dried and sift- ed flour ; then whisk tlie eggs, yolks and whites, nearly half an hour; beat in the sugar with a horn spoon, and, just before it is to be put into a buttered tin, stir in the flour lightly, adding a few caraway seeds. Bake it for one hour. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE SPUNGE CAKE. Take the juice and grated rind of a lemon, twelve eggs, twelve ounces of finely-pounded loaf sugar, the same of dried and sifted flour ; then with a horn spoon beat the yolks of ten of the eggs, add the sugar by degrees, and beat it till it will stand when dropped from the spoon ; put in at separate times the two other eggs, yolks and whites; whisk the ten whites for eight minutes, and mix in the lemon juice, and when quite stiff, take as much as the whisk will lift, and put it upon the yolks and sugar, which must be beaten all the time; mix in lightly the flour and grated peel, and pour it all gradually over the whites ; stir it together, and bake it in a buttered tin, or in small tins ; do not more than half fill them. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE SPUNGE CAKE. Three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, a quarter of a pint of water, boil the sugar and water, skim it well; six well-beaten eggs, pour in the sugar boiling hot, whisk it till cold; seven ounces of flour well dried, mixed in gradually with the grated peel of a lemon. The above should be put into a cake tin, well buttered and lined with buttered paper. It must be immediately put into a moderate oven, and baked three quarters of an hour. This spunge cake will keep moist and good for weeks. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE SPUNGE CAKE. Take one pound of dried flour, three quarters of a pound of finely-pounded loaf sugar, seven eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, the grated peel and juice of a lemon, a table-spoonful of rose water, and one of brandy, and half an ounce of caraway seeds dried and pounded ; beat all for an hour with the hand; butter a tin, line it with paper also buttered, put in the cake, and sift pounded sugar over the