256 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. of oil of cinnamon, or any other seasoning ; dust a large flat plate with flour, with a spoon throw on it the batter, in the Ihrm of balls or fritters, and drop them into boiling clarified dripping or lard. Serve them with pounded loaf stigar strewed over— The batter may be made into a pudding, add- ing with the eggs an ounce of salt butter. Boil, and serve it with a sweet sauce. SPANISH PUFFS. Put into a sauce-pan half a pint of water and a quarter of a pound of butter; stir it till it boils, and mix in four table- spoonfuls of flour ; stir it well together, and add six yolks and four whites of eggs, two at a time ; let it cool, and, with a des- sert-spoon, drop it into boiling clarified dripping or lard. To make ginger puffs, a tea-spoonful of pounded ginger may be added. SNOWBALLS BOILED IN BUTTER. Mix with six well-beaten eggs one pint and a half of sour cream, and add by degrees as much flour as will make the batter thick enough for the spoon to stand in it; sweeten it with brown sugar, and put in a few cardamoms ; stir into this mixture half a pint of beer, beat it all well together, and drop it with a dessert-spoon into some boiling lard, or butter. Drain them upon a towel before the fire, and serve them in a napkin, with sugar sifted over them. DEER HORNS. Beat one white, and six yolks of eggs ; mix them with five table-spoonfuls of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, the same quantity of sweet cream, ten sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, the grated peel of one lemon, and as much flour as will make the whole into a paste sufficiently thick to roll out. Then cut it with tins for the purpose, into the form of horns, branches, or any other shape, and throw them into boiling lard. NUNS. Roll puff paste about a quarter of an inch thick; cut it into rounds, or any other shape ; lay upon one bit a small tea-spoonful of any sort of preserved fruit, wet the edges, and put over it another bit of paste ; fry them in boiling clarified beef suet, or fresh lard ; drain them upon the back of a sieve. Serve them in a napkin, and strew pounded loaf sugar over them.