CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 303 form the sheet or case, and lay it aside ; with the rest work up the fruit, sweetmeats, and spices; make it into a round form like a thick cheese. Roll out the sheet of paste, lay the bun in the centre, and gather it all round, closing it at the bottom, by wetting the edges of the paste, and cutting it so as to lie quite flat. Turn it up, and run a wire or small skewer through from the top to the bottom every here and there, and prick the top with a fork. Double and flour a sheet of grey paper, and lay the bun upon it; bind a piece round the sides, also doubled and floured, to keep the bun in a proper shape. Bake it in a moderate oven. SUGAR CAKES. Take half a pound of dried flour, the same quantity of fresh butter washed in rose water, and a quarter of a pound of sifted loaf sugar ; then mix together the flour and sugar ; rub in the butter, and add the yolk of an egg beaten with a table-spoonful of cream ; make it into a paste, roll, and cut it into small round cakes, which bake upon a floured tin. HONEY CAKES. *One pound and a half of dried and sifted flour, three quar- ters of a pound of honey, half a pound of finely-pounded loaf sugar, a quarter of a pound of citron, and half an ounce of orange-peel cut small, of pounded ginger and cinnamon, three quarters of an ounce. Melt the sugar with the honey, and mix in the other ingredients; roll out the paste, and cut it into small cakes of any form. RICE CAKE. Twelve eggs, the yolks and whites beaten well, and sepa- rately ; one pound of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, three quarters of a pound of ground rice, one quarter of a pound of flour. Beat all these ingredients together for half an hour, and just before putting it into a well-buttered cake tin, add twenty or thirty drops of essence of lemons, and three or four tea-spoonfuls of caraway seeds. It may be baked in small tins, and without caraway seeds. RICE CAKES. Take the weight of four eggs in sifted rice flour and finely- pounded loaf sugar, half that weight of fresh butter, washed in rose water, and beaten to a cream ; whisk the eggs, add to them the sugar, and beat these for twenty minutes; then mix in the butter and the rice flour, along with a few pounded