PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 219 RISSOLES. Cut puff paste with a round tin cutter, about three inches wide ; have ready some cold fowl or veal, very finely minced, and seasoned with a little pounded garlic, grated lemon-peel, white pepper, salt, and mace, the juice of half a lemon, and moistened with a little good gravy. Put some of the mince upon one bit of the paste, wet the edges, and lay over it another bit; press it gently round the rim ; brush them all over with a well-beaten egg, and strew over them sifted bread crumbs ; fry them of a light brown in boiling clarified beef dripping, and lay them upon the back of a sieve before the fire to drain. Serve them in a napkin. The paste may be cut of the size of a large breakfast plate, then the mince put into the middle of it, the edges wet all round, and gathered up into the form of a pear, brushed over wdth egg, and strewed over with bread crumbs. Serve in a dish garnished with fried parsley. PANCAKE RISSOLES. Mince finely some cold veal; season it with grated lemon- peel, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and a little lemon pickle; warm it up with some good gravy, and a small bit of butter rolled in flour. Have ready a batter as for pancakes, sea- soned with a little salt and grated nutmeg. Fry a thin pan- cake, turn it, and put into the middle two table-spoonfuls of the minced veal; fold it in at each side and at the ends in an oblong form, and fry them of a light brown colour ; lay them upon the back of a sieve to drain before the fire. Four or six will make a dish. They are served as a corner or top dish. MINCE PIES. Weigh equal quantities of fresh lemons, cleaned currants, stoned raisins, fresh beef suet minced, and good brown su- gar. Cut the lemons in half, squeeze and strain the juice ; put the skins into a sauce-pan of cold water, cover it closely, and boil them till perfectly tender ; drain off the water, and pound them in a mortar. Grate a small nutmeg, and cut very small a little citron ; mix all the ingredients thoroughly, adding the lemon-juice last, and mixing it in well; then pack it into small jars; upon the top put a bit of white paper dip- ped into spirits, and tie the jars over with paper. This will keep good for a twelvemonth, and when it is to be made into pies, dust the pans with flour, line them with