PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 214 DEVIZES PIE. Cut into very thin slices, after being dressed, cold calf’s head, with some of the brains, pickled tongue, sweetbreads, lamb, veal, a few slices of bacon, and hard-boiled eggs; put them in layers into a pie-dish, with plenty of seasoning be- tween each, of cayenne, white pepper, allspice, and salt; fill up the dish with rich gravy ; cover it with a flour-and- water paste ; bake it in a slow oven, and when perfectly cold, take off the crust, and turn the pie out upon a dish; garnish it with parsley and pickled eggs cut into slices. VEGETABLE PIE. Of a variety of vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, po- tatoes, artichoke bottoms, cauliflower, French beans, peas, and small button onions, equal quantities of each ; half boil them in good broth for a short time, put them into a pie- dish, cover it with puff' paste, and bake it in a slow oven; make a gravy of a bit of veal, a slice of ham, pepper, salt, a bay leaf, mushrooms, shalots, parsley, and an onion ; when it has boiled thick, strain the liquor, and mix in three or four table-spoonfuls of cream, and pour it into the pie be- fore being served. The cream may be omitted. TRIPE PIE. Lay into the bottom of a dish some thinly-sliced cold or raw ham, then put in a layer of tripe with the jelly adhering to it, season with pepper and salt, and add a bit of butter; fill the dish in this manner, and put in a few table-spoonfuls of brown stock; cover the dish with puff paste. A beef- steak may be substituted for the ham, laid into the bottom, and the dish filled up with tripe. A PIE OF COLD BEEF VEAL OR MUTTON. Pound in a mortar some boiled potatoes ; boil a cupful of milk, and while hot, mix it with the potatoes, and beat them till they become like a light paste; roll it out, cut it, with a flat dish, the size of the pie-dish, so as it may be laid from off it upon the pie; cut the meat into slices, season it with pep- per and salt, put half a pint of gravy, wet the edges of the dish, and put over it the paste, and bake it till the paste be sufficiently done. LEICESTERSHIRE MEDLEY PIE. Cut some apples into quarters, take out the core, but do