473 APPENDIX—NO. II. comes from them is wasted, rub them through a sieve; and when cold, put the pulp into pint bottles, cork, and tie them down with twine. Place the bottle^ nearly up to the cork in a pan of cold water, and let them boil gently fifteen minutes. When cold, seal the corks. To be added to gravies and sauces. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW BEET-ROOT. Boil two large, or three small roots of beet; rub off the skin, mince the root, and heat it with three quarters of a pint of thick cream, and just before serving, add about three table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and a dessert-spoonful of sugar. Half a pint of rich and well-seasoned brown gravy may be substituted for the cream. COLCANNON Boil some potatoes, peel and mash them with butter, a little cream and milk, salt and pepper, and have ready an equal quantity of boiled cabbage; mince and mix it with the potatoes, and make them hot before serving. When dished, score with the back of a knife. STEWED TOMATAS. Stew ten or more tomatas in gravy till they are quite ten- der; drain them upon a sieve. Serve them quite hot, with some rich gravy, to which a tea-spoonful of vinegar has been added, poured over them. COME AGAIN TO-MORROW. Mix a batter as for pancakes witn four or five eggs; make it into small pancakes, frying on one side only, and as each is done turn it on a paste-board, and put upon the brown side a spoon- ful of nicely seasoned minced fowl or veal; fold it so as to form a square parcel; cover it with grated bread, and fry it of a light brown; dry it upon blotting-paper. Serve them placed round the dish, the edge of one parcel resting upon the other. RIGA PUFFS. To one beaten egg, add a tea-cup of cream, with flour, to make it roll out so thin as to see daylight through it. Cut it into rounds; put in mince-meat, fold it once, and run it round with a paste cutter, and fry it. WHITE LEYS PUDDING. Pour a pint and a half of boiling milk upon the crumb of a slice of bread ; when nearly cold, mash the bread, add five well- beaten eggs, a large table spoonful of marmalade, two of sugar, and two of stoned raisins, one ounce of blanched sweet almonds