FISH. 38 Soles may be done in this way, only lay over them sliced onions instead of shalots. TO POT SALMON Take off the head; cut the salmon in thick slices ; wipe it dry, but do not wash it; pound half an ounce of nutmeg, mace, and cloves, the least part of cloves, half an ounce of white pepper, and some salt; chop fine one onion, six bay leaves, and six anchovies ; with this season each slice ; put them into a pan, with very thin slices of butter between each layer ; bake it; when well done, drain off the butter, and when cold, pour over it some clarified butter. SPICED SALMON. Mix together, in the proportion of one-third of salt-and- water to one pint of vinegar, one ounce of whole black pepper, and one ounce of cinnamon. Cut the salmon into slices, and boil it in this; when cold, pack it close in a pan, and pour over it the liquor it was boiled in, witli the spices, so as to cover it completely ; cover the pan closely, to ex- clude the air. PICKLED SALMON. Cut the salmon into pieces ; boil it as for eating, and lay it on a dry cloth till the following day ; boil two quarts of good vinegar with one of the liquor the fish was boiled in, one ounce of whole black pepper, half an ounce of allspice, and four blades of mace. Put the salmon into something deep, and pour over it the prepared vinegar when cold. A little sweet oil put upon the top will make it keep a twelve- month. ANOTHER PXCLKED SALMON. To a quart of the liquor the fish has been boiled in, put rather more than half a pint of good vinegar, and half an ounce of whole black pepper ; boil it, and when it is cold pour it over the fish, previously laid in a deep dish. TO BOIL TURBOT. Put into the turbot-kettle, with the water, two large handfuls of salt, and a tca-cupful ot vinegar ; when it boils very fast, take off the scum, put in the turbot, and when it boils again, keep it boiling fast till the turbot rises from the drainer, when it is suflSciently done. Dish and garnish it with a fringe of curled parsley and cut lemon. Sauces ; — Lobster and melted butter.