VEAL. 117 CUTCHAREE. Boil a quarter of a pound of split peas till they be tender; drain them in a cullender. Wash very clean a pound of rice ; chop the peas finely, mix them with the rice, and sea- son with a little turmeric. Fry in an ounce and a half of butter, a minced onion, and of cloves, mace, cardamom, and black pepper, when pounded, half a tea-spoonful each ; stir them constantly, to prevent their burning. Season a quart of veal stock with salt and pepper; put in the rice and the fried onion and spices ; cover the stew-pan closeh% and let it simmer till the rice becomes tender and dry. Serve it with a cup of oiled butter. CALF'S LIVER LARDED AND ROASTED. Lard a fine calfs liver the same as a fricandeau, and let it lie for twenty-four hours in vinegar, with a sliced onion, some parsley, a little thyme, a bay leaf, some salt and pepper. Roast and baste it well with butter, then glaze it wnth a light glaze, and serve it with a poivrade, or any other sauce. SCOLLOPS OF CALF’S LIVER. Parboil and cut into slices a very fine calf’s liver, and shape them into hearts. Stew some fine herbs, parsley, shalots, and mushrooms ; then add the calf’s liver, and lot it stew over a slow fire ; when done on one side, turn and season it with pepper and salt; take out the liver, dredge in a little flour over the herbs, and add some more gravy ; let this boil for ten minutes, then heat the liver in the sauce before serving it. This may be eaten at breakfast. CALF'S PLUCK. WASH it very clean, and, if liked, stuff the heart with a forcemeat, made of crumbs of bread, butter, and parsley, and seasoned with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Fasten it firmly with the liver and lights, tying them to the skewers while roasting; baste it well with butter, and froth it the same way in which veal is done, and serve it with melted butter, mixed with a table-spoonful of lemon-pickle, or vine- gar poured over it. ANOTHER 'WAY TO DRESS A CALF'S PLUCK. S'TUFF the heart with a rich forcemeat, enclose it in paste, rub it over with the beaten whites of eggs, lay over it ver-