47 FISH. eyes, and hang them up in a cool place in the open air. They may be boiled or broiled, taking off the heads and skin. TO BOIL FRESH HADDOCKS. Clean them as above directed; take off the heads and skin ; when the water boils up, throw in two large handfuls of salt; put in the haddocks, boil them as fast as possible till they rise to the surface of the water, which will be from ten to fifteen minutes, according to their size ; take off the scum as it rises. Sauces :— Melted butter, and oyster sauce. BAKED HADDOCKS. Make a pint and a half of gravy with the heads and trimmings of three haddocks, one onion, some parsley, salt, [)epper, and two anchovies cut small; strain and heat it again with an ounce of butter kneaded in a table-spoonful of flour, add two of catsup, one of vinegar, one of soy, and a small tea-cupful of white wine; have the fish ready skinned and cut into pieces ; lay them into a deep dish, pour over them the sauce, and bake them in an oven. ANOTHER WAY TO BAKE HADDOCKS. WASH and scrape off the scales of three large fine had- docks, leaving on the heads ; make a sauce with the heads of some haddocks, two onions sliced, a bunch of parsley, and season it with pepper and salt; boil in this a small haddock, strain it, and then make a stuffing with the boiled fish picked from the bones, a few bread crumbs, chopped parsley, and some butter, and season it with salt and pepper ; stuff the haddocks, and put them with the sauce into a deep dish, and bake them. A pie is made in the same way, taking off the skin and the heads of the fish, cutting them in two, and adding a glass of white wine. ANOTHER WAY TO BAKE HADDOCKS. Clean, skin, and take off the heads of three good-sized liaddocks ; season grated bread crumbs with pepper, salt, and finely-minced parsley ; strew some over the bottom of a dish, put in the fish, and strew more seasoned bread crumbs all over them; then put a little bit of butter here and there, and pour in as mucli gravy or water as the dish will hold. They will take an hour to bake, and when they begin to look brown, strew over them a few more bread crumbs, seasoned as at first.