414 THE DAIRY. The best season for curing butter is from the beginning of August until the end of September; but if the pasture be rank, whether through soil, manure, or herbage, it is gene- rally injudicious to put down butter from it. Care must be taken that the firkin be well seasoned be- fore butter be put into it. The readiest method is by the use of unslaked lime, or a large quantity of salt and water well boiled, with which it should be scrubbed, and afterwards thrown into cold water, to remain three or four days, till wanted ; and before receiving the butter, scrubbed and rub- bed with salt. TO PUT SOWN BUTTER* After being worked up with salt, in the proportion of half an ounce to the pound and half of butter, and having lain in pound lumps twenty-four hours, the dairy-woman takes two or three of the lumps, joins them together, and kneads them in the manner in which paste is kneaded. This brings out a considerable quantity of watery brine, which being poured out of the bowl, the butter is beaten with a cloth as before. The jar having been previously boiled, or otherwise thoroughly cleaned, and having stood to be per- fectly cool and dry, the butter is thrown into it, and kneaded down, as firm and close as possible, with the knuckles and the cloth alternately; being careful not to have any hollow cell or vacuity for the air to lodge in, more particularly round the outsides, between the butter and the jar; for this pur- pose, she repeatedly draws her finger round the sides of the jar, pressing the butter hard, and thereby uniting intimately the jar and the butter. It is fortunate when the jar can be filled at one churning; but when this cannot be done con- veniently, the top is left level, and when the next churning of butter is to be added, the surface is raised into inequa- lities, and the two churnings mixed into one mass. The jar being filled to within two or three inches of the top, it is filled up with brine, made by boiling salt and water, in the proportion of a handful to a pint, ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, straining it into a cooling vessel, and when per- fectly cold, putting it upon the butter, about one and a half or two inches deep. If a wooden bung be put upon this, a bladder laid over it, and the jar kept in a dry place, the but- ter thus preserved will remain perfectly sweet for almost any length of time. The jar should be wider at the bottom than at the top, resembling the upright churn, the top of it being I sufficiently wide to admit of its being filled conveniently, but I not wider.