PRESERVES. 337 ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE AFRXCOT JAM. Allow equal proportions of pounded loaf sugar and of apricots ; pare, and cut them small; as they are done, strew part of the sugar over them, and put the parings into cold water. Break the stones, blanch and pound the kernels, which, with the shells and parings, boil till half the quantity of water is reduced, and there is a sufficiency of the liquor, when strained, to allow three or four table-spoonfuls to a pound of apricots ; put it, with the sugar and fruit, into a preserving-pan ; mash, and take off the scum ; boil it quickly, till transparent. APRICOTS IN BRANDY. Weigh equal quantities of loaf sugar and of apricots; scald them, and take off the skin ; clarify and boil the sugar, put the fruit into it, and let it remain for two or three days; put the apricots into glasses. Mix with the sirup the best pale brandy, half and lialf, and pour it over the apricots, and keep them closely covered. Peaches and nectarines may be done in the same way. TO DRY APRICOTS. Pare the apricots, and carefully take out the stones; blanch the kernels, and put them into the apricots; strew over a pound of fruit, the same quantity of finely-pounded loaf sugar, and let them stand till the sugar has extracted the juice, then boil all together gently ; when the fruit is tender, take it out with care, and boil the sirup till very rich; poiu* it over the fruit, and in three days put it upon dishes, and dry them in the sun under garden glasses, turning them once or twice a-day to keep the shape as round as possible. Any inferior apricots may be cut down and boiled in the sirup for tarts. TO CANDY ANGEXJCA. Cut the stalks when thick and tender; put them on in boiling water, and, when very tender, drain it off, and throw them into cold water; peel off the skin, and scald them in a thin sirup, made with the same proportion of sugar that there is of fruit; heat it twice a-day till the sirup is almost dried in, and then dry them under garden glasses, or in a stove, and turn them twice a-day. Y