PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 237 one pound of fresh butter ; stir it over a slow fire for nearly half an hour ; line a dish with thin puff paste, lay over the bottom a thick layer of orange marmalade, and then piU in the pudding. Bake it for fifteen or twenty minutes. IVIACARONX PUDDING. Boil a quarter of a pound of macaroni in a pint of good milk ; when quite tender, sweeten it wdth brown sugar, and add two well-beaten eggs, and three table-spoonfuls more of milk. Put it into a pudding-dish, and bake it in a Dutch oven for half an hour. POTATO OR CARROT PUDDING. Weigh half a pound of boiled potatoes, or of boiled car- rots, and pound them in a mortar ; blanch one ounce of sweet almonds; pound them, but not finely, with a little orange-flower water ; add the well-beaten whites of two, and the yolks of four eggs, a little salt, grated nutmeg, and one or two table-spoonfuls of brown sugar ; mix all well together. Line the dish with puff paste, and just before putting the pudding into the oven, stir in half a pound of melted but- ter. Bake it for twenty minutes. POTATO PUDDING. Boil and peel half a pound of potatoes ; pound them in a mortar, with six ounces of fresh butter, then add the well- beaten yolks of six, and the whites of three eggs, six ounces of pounded loaf sugar, half a tea-spoonful of grated nut- meg, the same of pounded cinnamon, and a glass of spirits. Bake it in a buttered dish ; turn it out before serving, and strew over it grated loaf sugar. A sweet sauce may be served with it. ANOTHER WAY TO lYIAKE POTATO PUDDING. Boil three large mealy potatoes, mash them very smooth- ly, with one ounce of butter, and two or three table-spoon- fuls of thick cream ; add three well-beaten eggs, a little salt, grated nutmeg, and a table-spoonful of brown sugar. Beat all well together, and bake it, in a buttered dish, for half an hour in an oven, and three quarters in a Dutch oven. A few currants may be added to the pudding. TANSY PUDDING. Pour a quart of boiling milk over a thick slice of the crumb of bread; cover it till cold. Beat the yolks of six.