97 MUTTON. parsley mixed with melted butter, the juice of a lemon, pepper and s^t, putting a little upon each kidney. This is an excellent breakfast for a sportsman. SHEEPS' TROTTEHS FRIED. Clean some sheeps’ trotters nicely; scald and wash them in hot water ; stew tliem in that sauce in which Calf’s Head, plain (p. Ill), is boiled, and bone them. Fry, but not till brown, in a little butter, some carrots, onions, a little parsley- roots, all cut small, thyme, a shalot, a small bay leaf, and a clove. When they begin to colour, moisten them with water and vinegar mixed in equal parts, and let it all stew till the vegetables are quite tender; season with pepper and salt, and strain it through a silk sieve over the sheeps’ trotters, then fry the trotters in this batter; put nearly four table- spoonfuls of flour into an earthen pan, with a little salt, a little olive oil, and as much good beer or water as will moisten the paste; when well mixed, add the beaten whites of two eggs ; dip the trotters into this, and fry them instantly. The marinade cuite, or pickle, into which the trotters are laid, and the paste in which they are fried, may be used for beef, and other meats. The same recipe may be followed exactly for calfs feet. TO CURE MUTTON HAM. Cut a hind quarter of good mutton into the shape of a ham; pound one ounce of saltpetre, with one pound of coarse salt and a quarter of a pound of brown sugar: rub the ham well with this mixture, taking care to stuff the hole of the shank well with salt and sugar, and let it lie a fortnight, rubbing it well with the pickle every two or three days ; then take it out, and press it with a weight for one day; smoke it with saw-dust for ten or fifteen days, or hang it to dry in the kitchen. If the ham is to be boiled soon after it has been smoked, soak it one hour; and if it has been smoked any length of time, it will require to be soaked several hours. Put it on in cold water, and boil it gently two hours. It is eaten cold at breakfast, luncheon, or supper. A mutton ham is sometimes cured with the above quantity of salt and sugar, with the addition of half an ounce of white pepper, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, and one nutmeg. G