21 SOUPS. ANOTHER VEGETABLE SOUP. Boil in two quarts of water till reduced to one, a quart of old green peas, a few of the pea shells, a sprig of mint, and two or three onions; strain and pulp it through a sieve. Stew the following ingredients in as much water as will cover them, and season with pepper and salt: — a pint of young peas, two or three onions sliced, the same number of cucumbers cut into square pieces, some lettuce stalks, scraped and cut into bits about an inch long, and two ounces of but- ter; add this to the pulped liquor, and boil it up. To im- prove the colour of the soup, half a tea-cupful of spinach juice, may be added before taking it off the fire. ANOTHER VEGETABLE SOUP. Of carrots and turnips, when cut into dice, one quart of each, four onions sliced, and one quart of peas. Boil, in three quarts of water, the four onions, half the quantity of carrots, turnips, and peas; when they are quite soft, rub them through a sieve, season with pepper and sdt, add the rest of the vegetables, and boil them till tender. This soup may be made with the addition of a little fresh beef dripping, or a small beef bone. WINTER VEGETABLE SOUP. To every gallon of water allow, when cut down small, a quart of the following vegetables : — eciual quantities of tur- nips, carrots, and potatoes, three onions, two heads of celery, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; fry them brown in a quarter of a pound of butter, add the water with salt and pepper, and boil it till reduced to three quarts, and serve it with fried toasted bread. ANOTHER WINTER VEGETABLE SOUP. Peel and slice six large onions, six potatoes, and four turnips; fry them in half a pound of butter or very fresh dripping; toast a crust of bread brown and hard, put it, with two or three heads of celery cut small, some herbs, pepper and salt, with the fried vegetables, into five pints of water, to stew gently for four hours; then strain it through a sieve, add a little carrot and celery cut small, and some chopped parsley, one anchovy or a red herring, and a little cayenne; boil it till the vegetables are tender.