KITCHEN GARDEN. 482 small sowing of this kind may be made every month from April to August, in order to have them throughout the sum- mer in a young state for the table. For a wirrter crop, the yellow Dutch turnip is considered superior to any other kind; it is sown thickly about the middle of July; and, if rain do not occur, frequent watering wdll be necessary. When the root leaves are about an inch broad, the young plants are thinned to within six or eight inches distance from each other. To prevent the ravages of the turnip-fly, it is ad- visable to dust quick-lime lightly over the crop while it is in the seed-leaf. Should the young plants threaten to run to flower, they may be trodden down, by gently placing the foot on the centre of the plant. If turnips be allowed to remain in the ground throughout the winter, the top leaves form ex- cellent greens early in spring. The Swedish, the stone, and the yellow, are all likewise good winter turnips. CARROT. Carrots thrive best in a light soil, Muth a mixture of sand; it should be delved very deep, or even trenched, and, at the same time, well broken with the spade. Pigeon’s dung added to the carrot ground promotes their health, by preventing the attacks of insects ; when any other manure is used, it should be buried deep, that the roots may not touch it. In general, it is best to make the carrots the second crop after manuring. For the principal crop, the orange carrot, or the red or field carrot, is preferred; it is sown in March or April — in light soils not till the end of April or beginning of May. The seeds must be rubbed between the hands with some dry sand to separate them ; and, as they are very light, a calm day must be chosen ; they should be trodden in before raking. When the plants come up, several successive hoeings are given; at first with a three-inch, and latterly with a six-inch hoe. The plants are thinned either by drawing young plants for use, or by hoeing, till they are within eight or ten inches of each other, if broadcast; but if in drills, which should be a foot apart, till they are six or seven inches separate. If the hoeing is not done in showery weatlier, a regular watering must be given after the operation. For an early crop, the early horn- carrot is used; it is sown before the first of February, in a warm border, wdiich must be hooped over, and covered with mats during frost. A bed of the late horn-carrot may be sown in June or July, to afford young roots in the autumn months. Carrots are taken up at the first approach of winter, cleaned, and stored up with sand in a place that will exclude the frost.