rUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 221 and dried before the fire, a quarter and half a quarter of an ounce each ; half a nutmeg grated, a quarter of a pint of brandy, and the same of sweet wine. The materials must all be prepared, weighed, and then well mixed together, and packed in small jars. BRANDY JVIINCED PIES. Glean a pound of currants; mince a pound of nonpareil apples, and one of fresh beef suet; pound a pound of loaf sugar ; weigh each article after being prepared ; the peel of two lemons grated, and the juice of one ; a quarter of a pound of citron, the same of orange-peel minced. Mix all these ingredients well with a quart of brandy. LEmON MXNCED PIES. Weigh one pound of fine large lemons, cut them in half, squeeze out the juice, and pick the pulp from the skins ; boil them in water till tender, and pound them in a mortar ; add half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, the same of nicely cleaned currants, and of fresh beef suet minced, a little grated nutmeg, and citron cut small. Mix all these ingre- dients well, and fill the patty-pans with rather more of the mince than is usually put. APPLE PIE. Pare, quarter, and core the apples ; cut them into thin bits. Put into the bottom of a pie-dish a table-spoonful of brown sugar, with half a tea-spoonful of grated ginger and the same of lemon-peel, then a layer of apples, and so on alternately, till the dish is piled as full as it will hold. The next day, wet the rim of the dish, line it with puff or tart paste, brush it with water, and cover it with paste ; press the edge all round, notch it with a paste cutter, and make a small hole with the point of a knife in the middle. It may be seasoned with two table-spoonfuls of lemon or orange marmalade, pounded cinnamon, mace, and cloves, in addition to the ginger and lemon-peel. CURRANT TART. To a quart of red currants, add one pint of red raspberries, strawberries, or cherries ; sweeten them well with brown su- gar. Before putting in the fruit, line the side of the dish with tart paste, place in it a small tea-cup, put in the fruit, and cover it with paste. Four ounces of brown sugar are generally allowed to a quart of fruit.