335 PRESERVES. TO PRESERVE LARGE SMOOTH GREEN GOOSEBERRIES. Weigh equal proportions of sugar and of fruit; with a penknife, slit the gooseberries on one side, and take out all the seeds ; put them into a preserving-pan with cold water; scald them ; pour off the water when cold ; put over and un- der them vine leaves, with more cold water; set them over the fire to green. Clarify the sugar; put the gooseberries into a deep jar, and pour the boiling sirup over them ; in two days pour it off, boil, and put it over the fruit; repeat this till the sirup becomes thick, then put them into small jars. TO PRESERVE THE SAME BEFORE THEY ARE RIPE. Gather the largest-sized gooseberries, and allow an equal quantity of pounded loaf sugar; cut the gooseberries in half, and takeout the seeds ; wet the sugar with a little water, and put altogether in a preserving-pan ; carefully stir and scum them, and boil them till the sirup is clear and the fruit soft. PRESERVED APPLES. Weigh equal quanties of good brown sugar, and of apples; peel, core, and mince them small. Hoil the sugar, allowing to every three pounds a pint of water ; skim it well, and boil it pretty thick ; then add the apples, the grated peel of one or two lemons, and two or three pieces of white ginger ; boil till the apples fall, and look clear and yellow. This preserve will keep for years. PRESERVED CHERRIES. To a pound of cherries allow three quarters of a pound of pounded loaf sugar; stone them carefully, and as they are done, strew part of the sugar over them ; boil them fast, with the remainder of the sugar, till the fruit is clear and the .sirup thick; take off the scum as it rises. Or they may be boiled ten minutes in an equal quantity of sugar, which has been previously clarified and boiled candy high. Part of the kernels may be added; or they may be preserved with the stones and part of the stalks. Should the sirup be desired particularly rich and thick, they may be done as strawberries, first receipt, p. 333, omitting the currant juice. CHERRY JAM. Stone six pounds of cherries ; bruise them as they boil, and when the juice is a little wasted, add three pounds of