232 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. BAKED PUDDINGS. Boil in a pint of milk two or three laurel leaves; strain, and stir in half a pound of grated bread, the same quantity of fresh butter, and half a grated nutmeg; when cold, add the beaten yolks of five, and the whites of tliree eggs ; sweeten Avith brown sugar ; half fill yeUow tea-cups, and bake them in a quick oven. Serve with sweet sauce in a sauce-tureen. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE BAKED PUDDINGS. The weight of three eggs in flour, of two in butter, and two in sugar. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar and the flour, and mix all well together with the eggs pre- viously well beaten; put it into four cups, and bake them in a quick oven. Serve with sweet sauce poured round them. PRUNE LOAF. Boil a pound of prunes, with half a pint of port wine, nearly as much water, and a table-spoonful of brown sugar ; stone the prunes ; cut some thin bits of bread into round forms, the size of half-a-crown, or into strips about an inch wide ; soak them in clarified butter, and line a shape Avith them, and then add the prunes and a little marmalade ; put over this a layer of bread, and tie a piece of buttered paper over the shape, and bake the loaf for one hour in a moderate oA'en. ANOTHER PRUNE LOAF. Stone one pound of prunes ; blanch the kernels, and boil them Avith the fruit, a little water, two or three spoonfuls of port Avine, half an ounce of dissolved isinglass, and a table-spoonful of brown sugar. Put it into a shape, and when cold turn it out. CARROT PUDDING. Pound in a mortar the red part of two large boiled carrots, and a slice of grated bread, or a pounded biscuit, two ounces of melted butter, the same quantity of sugar, a table-spoonful of marmalade, or a bit of orange-peel minced; half a tea- spoonful of grated nutmeg, and four well-beaten eggs; mix all Avell together ; bake it in a dish lined Avith puff paste. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE CARROT PUDDING. The red part of two pounds of carrots grated, half a pound of grated bread, five well-beaten eggs, half a pound of fresh