CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 295 remainder of the cream into the bottom of the dish ; garnish with flowers. A LARGE SYXXABUB. One pound of ratafia cakes pounded and steeped in two bottles of port wine, one of claret, and one of brandy, the grated peel and juice of two lemons, one large nutmeg grated, and two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded with a little rose water, and pounded sugar suificient to make it sweet — Put all these ingredients, well mixed, into a large china bowl, or bowls of an equal size, and let the milk of a good cow be milked upon them ; add a little rich cream and sifted loaf sugar, and cover it to keep it warm. It may be served out into glasses with a silver ladle. ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE LARGE SYLLABUB. A LARGE glass of madeira, one of rich sweet wdne, and half a one of ratafia, half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, the grated peel of a large lemon, the juice of two, and a little pounded cinnamon ; stir it altogether till the sugar be dis- solved, and add a quart of rich cream; whisk it well; lay some macaroons into the bottom of a dish, and pile the frothed syllabub high upon it. It may be kept nine or ten days, and is better the third and fourth than when first made. SOLID SYLLABUB. A QUARTER of a pint of mountain, the same of white wine, the grated peel of two, and juice of one lemon; sweeten, and add it to a quart of rich cream; whisk it for an hour, and put it into glasses. It will keep a week in cold weather. WHIPT SYLLABUB. Mix together half a glass of brandy, a little lemon juice, and grated peel, with sugar enough to sweeten the whole ; stir it into a pint of thick cream, and add the well-beaten whites of six eggs; whisk it for an hour, and put the froth, as it rises, upon a sieve to drain; put a little port and sweet wine into glasses, and fill them up with the froth. COMMON SYLLABUB. Half a pint of currant, the same of port or white wine, half a grated nutmeg, and the peel of a lemon ; sweeten well with pounded loaf or good brown sugar, and mix it together in a china bowl, and when the sugar dissolves, milk upon it three or four pints of milk. Serve it when cold.