92 MUTTON. and mince it very finely, together with six ounces of suet; mix with it three or four table-spoonfuls of crumbs of bread, the beaten yolks of four eggs, one anchovy chopped, some pepper and salt, and half a pint of port wine ; put it into a caul of veal, and bake it in a quick oven ; turn it out into a dish, and pour some brown gravy over it; serve with it ve- nison sauce When a veal caul is not to be had, the mince may be done in a sauce-pan, IRISH STEW. Cut the best end of a neck of mutton into chops ; put them into a sauce-pan with four or five pounds of potatoes, six minced onions, some pepper and salt, and a quart of cold water; keep the pan closely covered, and when it boils re- move it to the side of the fire, that it may simmer with a gentle heat for two or three hours; before serving, add a table-spoonful or two of catsup. TO HARICOT A NECK OF 3YIUTTON. Roast it till nearly done, then cut it into cutlets, and stew it in a well-seasoned gravy, adding, cut like straws an inch long, the red part of two or three carrots and some turnips. ROLLED MUTTON. Bone a shoulder of mutton caiefully, so as not to injure the skin; cut all the meat from the skin, mince it small, and seiison it highly with black and Jamaica pepper, nutmeg, and a clove, some parsley, lemon thyme, sweet marjoram chopped, and a pounded onion, all well mixed together with a well- beaten yolk of an egg; roll it up very tightly in the skin, tie it round, and bake it in an oven two or three hours, accord- ing to the size of the mutton. Make a gravy of the bones and parings, season with an onion, pepper, and salt, strain and thicken it with flour and butter ; add of vinegar, mush- room catsup, soy, and lemon pickle, a. table-spoonful each, and a tea-cupful of port wine; garnish with forcemeat-balls, made of grated bread and part of the mince. HAGGIS. Wash and clean the heart and lights, parboil and mince them very small; add one pound of minced suet, two or three large onions minced, and two small handfuls of oatmeal; season highly with pepper and salt, and mix all well together; the bag being perfectly clean and sweet, put in the ingredients, press out the air, sew it up, and boil it for three hours.