281 CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. HARTSHORN JELX.7. Boil ten ounces of hartshorn shavings in four quarts of water till reduced to three pints; strain it; when cold, add to it a pint of white wine, one pound of loaf sugar, and the peel of two lemons ; set it over the fire, stir it till the jelly is melted, and pour in the strained juice of eight lemons, and the beaten whites of twelve eggs ; stir it, and let it boil quickly a few minutes ; pour it into a jelly-bag till it runs perfectly clear. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE HARTSHORN JEXXY. Boil half a pound of hartshorn shavings for three hours and a half in four pints and a half of water ; strain it through a bit of muslin, and stir into it three ounces of dissolved isinglass ; if large, the peel of one, if small, of two lemons, and their juice, half the peel of an orange, three parts of a tea-cupful of brandy, and one of white wine ; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, and when luke-warm, put it into a sauce- pan with the beaten whites of six eggs ; stir it, and let it boil for two minutes ; strain it through a jelly-bag two or three times till perfectly clear. APPLE JELLY. Pare and cut small thirteen good-sized acid baking apples ; as they are cut, throw them into two quarts of cold water ; boil them in this till the substance is extracted and nearly half the liquid wasted; drain them through a hair-sieve, and with the back of a spoon press out all the juice, run it through a jelly-bag, and to a pint of the liquid allow half or three quar- ters of a pound of pounded loaf sugar. Put it on the fire with the peel of a lemon, stir it till the sugar is melted ; when it boils, take off the scum, add the juice of the lemon; let it boil for twelve or fifteen minutes ; try a little of it in a saucer, and when it jellies, take out the peel and pour it into a mould. This jelly will keep good for some weeks. JAUNE MANGE. Boil, till dissolved, in a pint of water, two ounces of isinglass, and the thinly-pared peel of one lemon and a half; strain, and add to it a pint of white wine, the juice of three Seville oranges or lemons, and the beaten yolks of eight eggs; sweeten it with pounded loaf sugar, put it into a sauce-pan, and stir it over the fire till it thicken ; pour it into a mould, and turn it out when cold.