359 PICKLES. quarter of an ounce of cayenne; put into ajar that will hold four quarts, two ounces of allspice, and pour on it the hot pickle. When cold, put in any fresh-gathered vegetables or fruit, such as asparagus, cauliflower, French beans, radish pods, unripe apples, gooseberries, currants, which may be added as the opportunity offers ; and, as the pickle wastes, it should be replenished with the same mixture. TO PICKLE RED CABBAGE. Choose two middling-sized, well-coloured, and firm red cabbages ; shred them very finely, first pulling off the outside leaves ; mix with them nearly half a pound of salt, tie it up in a thin cloth, and let it hang for twelve hours ; then put it into small jars, and pour over it cold vinegar that has been boiled with a few barberries in it; tie the jar over closely with bladder ; or boil, in a quart of vinegar, three bits of gin- ger, half an ounce of black and Jamaica pepper, and a quar- ter of an ounce of cloves. When cold, pour it over the red cabbage. TO PICKLE BARBERRIES. Boil the bruised berries of a few bunches in salt and water; strain, and put a gill of the liquor to a quart of vine- gar, with an ounce of salt, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, a quarter of an ounce of pounded ginger, and a little sliced horse-radish; boil and strain it, then pour it hot over the barberries, the finest bunches having been previously selected and placed in jars; when cold, cover them closely with bladder. They may also be kept in a jar, with a strong brine of salt and water poured over them. When any scum is observed upon the surface, the brine must be poured off, and some fresh added. They are kept closely covered. TO PICKLE GREEN OR RED CAPSICUMS. Place the capsicums in a jar; boil a dessert-spoonful of salt in a quart of vinegar, and pour it, while hot, upon the peppers ; when cold, place a plate on the jar, and tie over it bladder or leather. They will be fit for use in a few weeks. ANOTHER WAYTO PICKLE GREEN OR RED CAPSICUMS. Cut the capsicums open the long way ; take out the seeds and fill them with mustard seed, whole shalots, and a little scraped horse-radish; sew them up, and pour over them white wine vinegar, which has been boiled, and allowed to