18.5 VEGETABLES. they are pared ; put them into a sauce-pan, cover them with cold water, and throw in a little salt; cover the sauce-pan closely, and let them boil quickly for half an hour ; pour off the water immediately, and set the pan by the side of the fire to dry the potatoes. ANOTHER WAY TO BOIL POTATOES. Wash them very clean, put them on in cold water, cover the sauce-pan, and let them boil quickly ; as soon as the water boils, pour it oft', and cover them with cold water ; add a little salt, and when the water boils, pour it off* instantly, when the potatoes will be sufficiently done ; dry them, and take oft’ the skins before serving. Some people prefer pota- toes being steamed. New potatoes require much less boiling, and will be done enough in twenty minutes ; if allowed to remain long upon the fire, they will become water-soaked. Before dressing, they are washed, and the skins rubbed or scraped off. BIASHED POTATOES. Boil the potatoes ; peel and mash tliem very smoothly ; put for a large dish four ounces of butter, two eggs beat up in half a pint of good milk, and some salt; mix them well together, heap it upon the dish with a table-spoon to give it a rough and rocky appearance, or put it on the dish and score it with a knife ; dip a brush or feather into melted butter, and brush over the top lightly ; put it into a Dutch oven, and let it brown gradually for an hour or more. To mash potatoes in a plain way, mix with them tw’o ounces of butter, half a pint of milk, and a little salt. When mashed potatoes are not browned, it is a great im- provement to add white pepper, salt, and one onion minced as finely as possible; heat the potatoes in a sauce-pan, and serve them hot. TO BROIL BOILED POTATOES. After boiling potatoes, not quite sufficiently to send to table, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and turn them frequently till they are of a nice brown colour all over ; serve them hot; take care they do not become too hard, as that spoils the flavour. TO BROWN POTATOES UNDER MEAT WHILE ROASTING. After being boiled, lay them on a dish, and place it in tha