PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 251 exactly contain it, and boil it for two hours. Serve with a sauce of butter melted with milk, and well sweetened with brown sugar. OXFORD PUDDING. Wash, in four or five waters, half a pound of good rice; tie it into a pudding-cloth, not too tightly ; put it on in a pot of cold water, and when it boils, let it boil for two hours. It may be eaten with cold butter and sugar, or treacle. A quar- ter of a pound of nicely-cleaned currants mav be boiled with the rice. OATIVEEAL PORRIDGE. Boil some water in a sauce-pan with a little salt, and stir oatmeal into it with a thevil; when of a proper thickness, let it boil for four or five minutes, stirring it all the time; then pour it into a dish, and serve it with cream or milk. It is sometimes eaten with porter and sugar, or ale and sugar. If made with milk instead of water, less meal is requisite, and it is then eaten with cold milk. SOWENS. Half-fill a tub, large jar, or any other vessel, with oat- meal seeds, and fill it up with milk-warm water. Let it stand till it get a little sour, which in warm weather may be in three or four days ; then strain it through a cheese-drainer, squeezing the seeds, and adding to them a little cold water, to obtain all the substance from them ; the liquid is allowed to stand a little, till the thick matter falls to the bottom, the thin is then poured off, and fresh cold water added, stirring it well. The so wens, being thus prepared for boiling, will keep a week or more in cold weather ; and when too sour for use, a little may be mixed with the next making, by which means it will be sooner ready. When to be dressed, pour off some of the water from the top, stir it up from the bottom, and boil the portion required, adding a little salt, and stirring it all the time it is upon the fire. It will take from ten to twenty minutes to thicken, when it is poured into a deep dish, and milk served with it. ALE BERRT. Stir into a bottle of cold beer a handful of oatmeal; put it on the fire, and stir it till it thickens like porridge, which may be in five minutes after it boils. It is served in a deep dish, and eaten with sugar.