BREWING. 425 depth than three inches; in winter five ; and the coolers so disposed that the temperature of the whole may be the same. When it has become milk-warm, or from 62° to 65° Fahren- heit, strain it through a sieve which has a cloth laid over it, pour the whole into the gyle-tun (for which the mash-tun may be used, after being cleared out and rinsed with water), add the yeast, and, having covered up the vessel, let it stand in a moderately warm place. When the heat of the atmos- phere is more than 60°, the cool of the night must be chosen to put the beer to work. In lower degrees of the atmosphere, the wort must be set at a greater heat than that of the air; when the air is at 50°, the beer may be set to work at 50°. It should rather be set at too low than too high a tempera- ture. A greater proportion of yeast is required in winter than in summer; and beer intended to be kept ten or twelve months will not require so much as that which is to be used immediately. The extract of one quarter of malt will require, if for keeping, six pints when the atmosphere is at 40°, five at 60“, and three at 80°; but, for those who are not disposed to study all these particulars, the proportion is one quart of good stiff yeast to about forty gallons of good strong beer or ale wort, and one pint and a half to the same quantity of small beer wort. As soon as the yeast is added to the wort, the mixture should be stirred for two or three minutes; it is a good practice to set the yeast to ferment before it is wanted, by diluting it with a portion of lukewarm wort, adding more wort as the fermentation proceeds. If the fermentation in the gyle-tun be languid and feeble, one or two large stone bottles, filled with hot water, closely corked, may be let down into the tub. The fermentation in in the gyle-tun is completed when the head of yeast begins to decline in the middle ; or, observe when the head of yeast has well risen, skim it off, and repeat the skimming till no more can be separated. The fermentation of a small quantity of beer is usually completed in two days ; after the collected yeast has stood a day, the beer that has separated from it may be returned to the skimmed liquor. When the fermentation has been apparently completed, draw off the fermented liquor from the thick sediment in the fermenting vessel, into clean casks, previously rinsed with boiling water ; place them with the bung-holes inclined a little to one side. A slow fermentation will go on, and the same liquor which overflows from the casks may again (having been received in a vessel placed underneath the casks for that purpose) be