244 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. ARDOVXE PUDDING. Mix two table-spoonfuls of ground rice with a quart of milk; stir it over the fire till it boils, and then add five well- beaten eggs and a little salt; pour the mixture into a basin rubbed with butter ; place it in a steam sauce-pan, or in a cullender — if in the cullender, cover it with the lid of a sauce-pan, and put it into a sauce-pan of boiling water, and let it steam two hours ; then put the basin into a Dutch oven, and let it stand a quarter of an hour to firm the pudding, but it must not be browned; turn it out, and pour over it the following sauce : — Add half a pint of cream to the beaten yolk of an egg ; stir it over the fire till it thickens ; take it off for a little, then mix in a quarter of a pint of white wine and three ounces of sugar ; stir it again over the fire. GROUND-RICE PUDDING. Boil in a pint of milk a quarter of a pound of flour of rice, with two table-spoonfuls of rose water, and half the peel of a lemon ; stir it till thick, take it off, and mix in a quarter of a pound of butter, half a grated nutmeg, the well-beaten yolks of four, and the whites of three eggs; sweeten it with brown sugar, pick out the lemon-peel, and boil it in a but- tered basin, which must be completely filled. Serve with a sauce made with a glass of white wine, boiled in melted but- ter, and sweetened with brown sugar. ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE GROUND-RICE PUDDING. Stir into a quart of boiling milk a breakfast-cupful of ground rice, and a few pounded bitter almonds ; when quite thick, take it off, and add eight well-beaten eggs, sweeten it, and again stir it over the fire till it boil, and then put it into an earthenware mould, and let it stand before the fire a few ininutes before turning it out. Serve it with pounded cinna- mon strewed over it, and a sauce of melted butter, wine, and sugar, poured round it. WILTSHIRE PUDDING. Mix, with three well-beaten eggs, a pint of milk, as much Hour as will make it a thick batter, and a little salt; beat it for some minutes ; stir in gently a large tea cupful of picked red currants, and half that quantity of red raspberries; boil it in a cloth for two hours ; turn it out upon the dish it is to l)e served in ; cut it into slices about three quarters of an inch thick, but do not separate them ; put between each a thin