334 PRESERVES. POUNDED STRAWBERRIES, FOR STRAWBERRY CREAIVE. Take equal weight of sugar and strawberries ; pound and sift the sugar, add it to the strawberries, and pound them in a marble mortar till perfectly smooth. Put it into jars, and tie them over closely with paper. It will keep good for se- veral months. IMITATION WEST INDIAN GINGER. Peel off the outer coat of the tender stems of lettuce that is shot; cut it into bits one or two inches long, and throw it into cold water ; to each pound put in a tea-spoonful of cay- enne, and a little salt; let it stand one or two days ; allow an equal proportion of fine loaf sugar, which clarify. Soak some good ginger in hot water ; slice it, and add it to the su- gar, allowing one ounce and a half to the pound, and boil it for fifteen minutes ; strain off the water from the lettuce, and pour over it the sirup, keeping back the ginger, with which the sirup must be boiled three times, and poured over the lettuce, tw'o or three days intervening betw'een each boiling ; and at the last add the strained juice of one or two lemons. RIPE MELON, TO RESEMBLE WEST INDIAN GINGER. Pare off the rind, scoop out the seeds, and cut it into small bits ; put them into salt and water for ten days ; then put them into fresh water for four or five days, changing the water daily, morning and evening ; scrape off the outside of some best white ginger, and put it into a thin sirup, which pour boiling hot upon the cut melon ; repeat this for five or six days. Boil up the sirup pretty thick, and boil the melon in it for ten minutes. To every pint of sirup put the rind of a lemon, pared very thin, and cut into straws This sweet- meat ought to be kept for a year before it is eaten. A melon of six pounds weight will require four pounds of refined sugar, and half a pound of ginger. TO PRESERVE RED PEARS. Parboil a dozen of pound pears in w'ater ; peel them. Cla- rify the same weight of fine loaf sugar that there is of pears ; add a pint of port wine, the juice and rind of one lemon, with a little cochineal, a few cloves, and a stick of cinna- mon ; boil the pears in this till they become clear and red ; take them out, boil up the sirup, strain, and put it over the pears.