444 KITCHEN GARDEN. advance in growth, the earth is drawn in towards them, per- haps once in ten days, taking care to do this in dry weather, and not to cover the centre of the plants with soil. When the plants rise considerably above the surface of the ground, the earth laid in ridges will be exhausted ; a new trench must, therefore, now be opened between each row, for a supply of soil to continue the earthing up till the leaf stalks of the celery be blanched to the length of from eight to fourteen inches. The last sowing is destined to stand the winter; and the soil into which this is finally transplanted, should be as dry as pos- sible. In severe weather, peas-haum or loose litter is thrown over the beds. In lifting the plants for use, it is proper to dig deep, that the main root may not be injured. GARDEN CRESS AND MUSTARD. These may be sown, thickly, in close drills, on a warm border, at the bottom of a south wall, about the middle of March. Throughout the summer they should be sown once a-fortnight, as they are used only while quite young and tender. Besides the plain sort of garden cress, there is a variety with curled leaves, which, being the more hardy of the two, may be sown later in the season. This kind requires to be thinned out to half an inch asunder. The white mustard is the best kind for sowing along with the garden cress, and for using in salad. FRENCH AND COMMON SORREL. The French sorrel thrives best in a light sandy soil. It is easily propagated by means of oflTsets, or by seeds; if in the first way, the plants are placed a foot apart. The only at- tention the crop requires is that of cutting off the flower stems in the month of July. The plants should be renewed every four or five years. Common sorrel thrives best in a shady border. It is easily raised from seed sown early in spring. RADISH. There are the spindle-rooted and turnip-rooted radishes ; of the turnip-rooted variety, there is a white and a red kind. The short-topped purple or the pink radish, both spindle- rooted, may be sown for the earliest crop in the beginning of November, in a sheltered border; and they will be ready for drawing early in March More seed is sown in December and January, and sowings are continued once a-fortnight until April, in order to secure a succession of young roots-