VEAL. 104 ANOTHER WAY TO STEW A BREAST OF VEAIn Cut ofF the short bones or gristles of a breast of veal; stew them in a little white stock, with a slice of ham, an onion, stuck with one or two cloves, some whole pepper, a bunch of parsley, and a little salt. When tender, take out the meat, strain the stock, and put it on with a pint and a half of green peas; boil them, and add the veal, and let them stew for twenty minutes. Serve the gristles in the middle, and the peas round them. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW A BREAST OF VEAL, WITH GREEN PEAS. Make a quart of gravy with the scrag end ; strain it; cut the rest of the veal into small pieces of nearly an equal size ; put it into a stew-pan, with the gravy, some pepper, salt, mace, half an ounce of butter, and a quart of green peas. Cover the pan closelj^ and let it stew nearly two hours; then put in a lettuce cut small, and let it stew half an hour longer. A little before serving, add half an ounce of browned butter, mixed with a little flour. TO BROIL A BREAST OF VEAL. Half roast and then score it; season it with parsley, a few finely-minced sweet herbs, a little pepper and salt, and broil it. Make a sauce of some gravy seasoned with onion, grated nutmeg, mace, salt, and an anchovy ; boil and strain it; thicken it with flour and butter. Add some minced capers and small mushrooms ; pour it quite hot over the veal. Garnish with sliced lemon. TO ROAST A LOIN OF VEAL WITH BECHAMEL. Cut an oblong piece of skin from the most fleshy part of a loin of veal, leaving one long side attached to the meat; turn it back, take out all the meat, being careful not to let the knife go through the under side ; mince it, put it into a basin, season it with cayenne pepper and grated nutmeg, and moisten it well with good cream. Wash and dry the loin, and put the meat into the space from which it was taken ; sew the skin neatly round the three open sides. When put down to roast, cover the loin with a buttered paper, and baste the joint very frequently ; take off the paper half an hour before it is t^en up, to let the roast get a fine brown colour. Serve it with melted butter poured over it, and garnish it with cut lemon.