304 CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. bitter almonds, or the grated peel of a lemon, and beat all to- gether for ten minutes. Butter small tins, half fill, and bake them in a quick oven. ANOTHER WAY TO IVIAKE RICE CAKES. Beat, till extremely light, the yolks of nine eggs ; add half a pound of sifted loaf sugar, and the same quantity of sifted rice flour ; melt half a pound of fresh butter, and mix it with the eggs, sugar, and flour, along with a few pounded bitter almonds; half fill small tins buttered with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven. CURRANT CAKES. Take half a pound of cleaned and dried currants, the same quantity of dried and sifted flour, a quarter of a pound of pounded sugar, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, four yolks, and three whites of eggs, both well beaten, and a little grated nutmeg or pounded cinnamon ; then beat the butter to a cream ; add the sugar, and then the eggs and the flour; beat these well for twenty minutes, mix in the currants and the grated nutmeg. Drop the cakes in a round form ugon buttered paper, or bake them in small tins in a quick ovem. ANOTHER WAY TO IVIAKE CURRANT CAKES. Take six ounces of currants, the same quantity of pounded loaf sugar, a little grated nutmeg, half a pound of butter, and three quarters of a pound of dried and sifted flour; rub the butter with the flour till they be well mixed, then add the other ingredients, and bind them with three beaten yolks of eggs, and two or three spoonfuls of rose or orange-flower water; roll it out, and cut it into round cakes with the top of a wine glass or a tin. WAFERS. Mix, with six table-spoonfuls of dried and sifted flour, nearly a pint of thick cream, the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, three table-spoonfuls of sifted loaf sugar, and one of orange-flower water ; beat all these well together. Heat the wafer-irons, and put into them a table-spoonful of the batter ; turn the irons, that the cake may be baked equally, and while hot, roll them round a stick. When cold, they will be very crisp. RICH CAKE. To two pounds and a half of dried and sifted flour, allow