CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c 270 cream, and whisk it till very thick. The following day, soak five or six spunge biscuits in white wine, and put over them the cream. ^ ANOTHER WAT TO IVCAKE WHITE LEMON CREAM. Boil the thin peel of two lemons in a pint of cream ; strain, and thicken it with the well-beaten yolks of three, and whites of four eggs ; sw'eeten it with pounded loaf sugar, stir it till nearly cold, and put it into glasses. STONE CREAM. Put three-table-spoonfuls of lemon juice, and the grated peel of one, some preserved apricots, or any other sweetmeat, into a glass or china dish. Boil a quarter of an ounce of isinglass in a little water, till dissolved; add it to a pint of cream, sweetened well with pounded loaf sugar; boil it, and stir it all the time ; pour it into a jug, stir it now and then till milk-warm, then pour it over the sweetmeat round and round. It may be made the day before being served. APPLE CREAM. Boil twelve large apples in water till soft; take off the peel, and press the pulp through a hair-sieve upon half a pound of pounded loaf sugar ; whip the whites of two eggs, add them to the apples, and beat all together till it becomes very stiff, and looks quite white. Serve it heaped up on a dish. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE APPLE CREAM. Peel and core five large apples ; boil them in a little water, till soft enough to press throtigh a sieve; sweeten, and beat with them the whisked whites of five eggs. Serve it with cream poured round it. SWISS CREAM. Boil the grated peel of a large lemon, and three quarters of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, in a pint of cream ; squeeze the juice of the lemon upon a table-spoonful of flour, work it well together, and gradually add to it the boiling cream, and heat it all over the fire; pour it into a basin, and when nearly cold, put it into a glass or china dish, and garnish it with candied orange-peel, and citron cut into straws. This dish requires to be constantly stirred till it is put into the one in which it is to be served.