14 BROTHS. cut the meat into pieces the length of a finger and the breadth of two; put a quart of water to every pound of meat, with a little salt, set it on a gentle fire, and skim it well during the first boiling; after it has stewed gently two hours, add carrots, turnips, onions, celery, a head or two of cabbage, and a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and a quarter of a pound of vermicelli; let it stew two hours and a half longer, skim it, and take out the herbs and bones. Chesnuts are a cood substitute for vermicelli. ANOTHER OX CHEEK SOUP. Wash the cheek clean, and cut it in small pieces ; stew it till tender, in four or five quarts of water, with turnips, thyme, parsley, black-po[)pcr-corns, and a few peas ; strain off the gravy and let it stand till the next day ; then take off the fat, and cut the meat in small pieces from the bones, and stew it a little longer in the gravy with six or seven onions sliced and fried a light brown, some carrots, and celery cut small, a little salt, and cayenne. SHEEP'S HEAD BROTH. Aftee having the sheep’s head and trotters singed, which is done wuth a red-hot iron (the head and trotters are usuallv sent for this purpose to a blacksmith’s forge), split the head, and take out the brain, which is not used; cut out the white of the eye, and rub the head and feet well over with it; let them lie for two hours, then wash them very w'ell in luke- warm water, and rinse them thoroughly. Cut out the tough membrane from between the toes, and lay them in cold water for two hours Put on two gallons of water, and three quarters of a pound of Scotch barley ; when it boils, put in the head, trotters, and neck of the slieep, of carrots and tur- nips a quart, when cut down in dice ; add a little salt, cover the pot closely, and let it boil four hours ; take off the scum as it rises ; put in some chopped onions about an hour before serving. Boil some whole carrots and turnips, or cut them in half, to put round the head, trotters, and neck in the dish. In summer, green peas arc a great improvement to this broth. SCOTCH BARLEY BROTH. In two gallons of cold water, boil six ounces of barley; when it boils, skim it, and put in a fowl and one pound of beef, or three pounds of the beef without the fowl; add three pounds of carrots and turnips, and three onions, cut very small. If greens are to be used, they will only require to