144 POULTRY. and a bunch of sweet herbs ; when nearly done, take out tlie herbs, mace, and nutmeg; add, with half a pound of but- ter mixed with flour, one anchovy cut small, and a glass of white wine ; garnish with fried oysters, cut lemon, and pic- kled barberries. TO POT CHICKEN WITH HAM. Pound, in a marble mortar, the white meat of a cold fowl; season it with mace, white pepper, and a little salt; pound a piece of ham fat and lean, red beef or tongue; season it with pepper; put a layer alternately of each kind of meat into a jar, and press it closely; bake it an hour and a half, and when cold, cover it with clarified butter. Cold turkey, veal, venison, or hare, may be done in this manner. TO BOIL A DUCK. Make a paste, allowing half a pound of butter to a pound of flour. Truss a duck as for boiling; put into the inside a little pepper and salt, one or two sage leaves, and a little onion finely minced; enclose the duck in the paste, with a little jellied gravy. Boil it in a cloth, and serve it with brown gravy poured round it. TO STEW DUCK. Cut one or two ducks into quarters ; fry them a light brown in butter ; put them into a sauce-pan, with a pint of gravy, a tea-cupful of port wine, four onions whole, black pepper, and some salt, a bunch of parsley, two sage leaves, a sprig of winter savory, and sweet marjoram. Cover the pan closely, and stew them till tender; take out the herbs and pepper; skim it; if the sauce be not suflBciently thick, mix with two table-spoonfuls of it a little flour, and stir it into the sauce-pan ; boil it up, and garnish the dish with the four onions. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW DUCK. Put into a duck some pepper, salt, a minced onion, and one leaf of sage also minced; half roast it; brown, with two ounces of butter, a table-spoonful of flour; add as much weak stock or water as will half cover the duck, and some pepper and salt; put in the duck, and a quart of green peas ; let it stew for half an hour, stirring it now and then. For a variety, a dozen of middling-sized onions may be substituted for the peas, and stewed the same length of time. Cold roasted duck may be dressed exactly in the same