CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 309 XRZSH SEED CAKE. Beat to a cream eight ounces of fresh butter, and a quar- ter of a pint of rose water, putting in a table-spoonful of rose water at a time; by degrees, mix into it a pound of sifted loaf sugar, and then nine well-beaten eggs ; add twelve ounces of flour, and three of flour of rice dried and sifted, a quarter of a pound of blanched and pounded sweet or bitter almonds, a tea-spoonful of essence of lemon, and one ounce of caraway seeds; beat all these well together; bake it in a cake-tin, which must be buttered, and lined with paper also buttered. It will require about one hour and a half to bake in a quick oven. It may be made without the almonds or the essence of lemon. BAIRN BRACK. To three pounds of dried flour, allow one pound of fresh butter, one pound of good brown sugar, two ounces of cara- way seeds, eight well-beaten eggs, three table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast, and some grated nutmeg ; dissolve the butter in a pint of milk, so as to make the whole into a dough, not very stiff; work it well; cover it with a cloth, and set it be- fore the fire to rise; when well risen, bake it in a buttered tin. When it becomes dry, it maybe toasted and eaten with butter. SHORT BREAD. For two pounds of sifted flour allow one pound of butter, salt or fresh ; a quarter of a pound of candied orange and lemon-peel, of pounded loaf sugar, blanched sweet almonds, and caraway comfits, a quarter of a pound each ; cut the lemon, the orange-peel, and almonds, into small thin bits, and mix them with a pound and a half of the flour, a few of the caraway comfits, and the sugar ; melt the butter, and when cool, pour it clear from the sediment into the flour, at the same time mixing it quickly. With the hands, form it into a large round of nearly an inch thick, using the remainder of the flour to make it up with; cut it into four, and with the finger and thumb pinch each bit neatly all round the edge; prick them with a fork, and strew the rest of the caraway comfits over the top. Put the pieces upon white paper dusted with flour, and then upon tins. Bake them in a moderate oven. PLAIN SHORT BREAD. The same proportions of flour and butter must be used as in the above receipt for short bread; this must be mixed to-