PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 239 and one of brandy. Soak, in a pint and a half of rich cream, four ounces of pounded biscuit; melt four ounces of butter ; beat, till very light, the yolks of seven eggs, with half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, and a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-peel. Mix all well together, and stir it over the fire till it be thoroughly heated, but not allowed to boil. Bake it in a dish lined with puff paste for half an hour. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE ALMOND PUDDING. Pound, with orange-flower or rose water, half a pound of blanched sweet almonds ; add a small tea-cupful of white wine, a quarter of a pound of melted butter, the same of pounded loaf sugar, four well-beaten eggs, a pint of cream, a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, and two table-spoonfuls of grated bread. Mix all well, and bake it in a dish with lined puff paste. CUSTARD PUDDING. Mix, with one table-spoonful of flour, a pint of cream or new milk, the well-beaten yolks of six eggs, a spoonful of l ose water, one of brandy, one ounce of fresh butter broken into small bits ; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, and add a little grated nutmeg. Bake it in a dish lined with puff paste, for half an hour. Before serving, strew over it pounded loaf sugar, and stick over it thin cut bits of citron. LIGHT PUDDINGS. Mix, with two ounces of flour, half a pint of cream, four well-beaten eggs, and two ounces of clarified butter ; half fill buttered cups, and bake them nearly half an hour. Serve them turned out upon a dish, with a sweet sauce poured into it. VERMICELLI PUDDING. Wash three ounces of vermicelli; boil it for fifteen mi- nutes in a pint of milk, with a bit of cinnamon and lemon- peel. When nearly cold, pick out the cinnamon and peel, sweeten it, and add the well-beaten yolks of six, and the whites of two eggs. Mix it well, and bake it in a buttered dish for half an hour. It may be boiled for one hour and a half, and served with a sweet sauce. CHOUS. Stir into a pint of boiling water half a pound of butter, and add by degrees the same quantity of flour ; stir it con-