APPENDIX.—No. III. 470 boil five minutes, add a little cayenne, pass it through a seive, put it back into the stew-pan and boil until it adheres rather thickly to the back of a spoon, bottle and use for any kind of meat or poultry.—From Soyer’s 3Ienagire. PEL WORTH’S MUTTON OR VENISON PIES. Chop a little onions and parsley, and put it with some butter into a stew-pan to draw. Cut the meat into small pieces, one part fat to two parts lean, and add it to the other ingredients when sufficiently drawn, and stew for about ten minutes. For sauce, a glass of white wine, a little stock, and boil till it is nearly in a glaze, add it to the meat, and pour it all into the pastry, previ- ously baked in shapes about three inches deep, but not very wide. For the paste, a little flour, the yolks of three eggs, butter the size of a walnut, and, if necessai’y, finish with a Uttle water, and bake them. FISH GRENADE. Pick the fish carefully from the bones and skin, take half a pint of cream, two tea-spoonsful of anchovies, one table-spoonful of sage, and a little mustard, two table-spoonsful of vinegar, a little cayenne, with salt and pepper sufficient to make it rich ; put it into a dish, making it higher in the middle. Cover it with crumbs of bread, a little bit of butter here and there, brown it with a salamander, and garnish with slices of lemon. POMMES A LA DAUPHIN. Peel and take out the cores of tw’o pounds weight of apples, taking care to keep them whole. Put them in a stew-pan but- tered at the bottom, a very little water, a bit of cinnamon, a table-spoonful of Cognac, and a little sugar. Put the sauce-pan on the stove to keep them whole; when baked, take them off the fire, and place them in a mould, taking care they do not get hard. A mould is best, so that the contents may rise above the level of it. Put into each apple a spoonful of apricot or some other marmalade, and a small piece of candied lemon or orange peel, powder four macaroon biscuits and sprinkle them over the apples, pour a cream fl.ivoured with vanille over the whole. This deli- cious dish was made by a cook in the service of the late Louis Philippe. When Q,ueen V'^ictoria was visiting at the Chateau d’Eau, she sent her plate twice for it. A BEAUTIFUL PUDDING. Two table-spoonsful of arrow-root, one of patent flour, four eggs, an English pint of new milk; season with sugar and essence of lemon. Beat the yolks and whites separately, the whites to a snow, adding the seasoning. Mix the flour with a little cold milk, boil the pint and pour over it, stirring constantly, then mix well with the other ingredients. Boil a little sugar to candy