267 CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE RASPBERRY CREAM. Mix a little pounded loaf sugar with a pint and a half of good cream, about a tea-cupful of raspberry jelly, the grated rind of one, and the juice of half a lemon ; beat it well together, and, with a syllabub mill, mill it slowly for half an hour, or till it be thick and solid. Put it into a glass dish, or serve it in custard glasses. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE RASPBERRY CREAM. Put six ounces of raspberry jam to a quart of cream ; pulp it through a lawn sieve, mix it with the juice of a lemon and a little sugar, and whisk it till thick. Serve it in a dish or glasses. Strawberry cream may be made in the same way. For common use, substitute good milk for the cream. WHIPT CREAM. Sweeten, with pounded loaf sugar, a quart of cream, and add to it a lump of sugar which has been rubbed upon the peel of two fine lemons or bitter oranges ; or flavour it with orange-flower water, a little essence of roses, the juice of ripe strawberries, or of any other fruit. Whisk the cream well in a large pan, and, as the froth rises, take it off, and lay it upon a sieve placed over another pan, and return the cream which drains from the froth, till all is whisked; then heap it upon a dish, or put it into glasses. Garnish with thinly-pared citron, or cedraty, cut into small leaves, or into any fanciful shape. To colour the rose cream, or to heighten that of strawberry, a little carmine or lake may be mixed with the cream, which may be iced when made. SPANISH CREAM. Boil, in half a pint of water, one ounce of isinglass, till dissolved; strain, and mix it with a quart of cream or good milk—if cream, not so much isinglass ; stir it over the fire till it comes to a boil; when a little cooled, add gradually the l)eaten yolks of six eggs, and a glass of white wine. Pour it into a deep dish, sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, stir it till cold, and then put it into a shape. Or, in lieu of the glass of wine, rub a lump of sugar upon the peel of a lemon to extract the flavour, and add it to the cream.