SOUPS. ‘29 some nicely-cleaned perch or tench. Serve in a tureen, and with slices of bread and butter to eat with it. PEPPER POT IN A TUREEN. Stew gently in four quarts of water, till reduced to three, three pounds of beef, half a pound of lean ham, a bunch oi dried thyme, two onions, two large potatoes pared and sliced; then strain it through a cullender, and add a large fowl, cut into joints and skinned, half a pound of pickled pork sliced, the meat of one lobster minced, and some small suet dumplings, the size of a walnut. When the fowl is well boiled, add half a peck of spinach, that has been boiled and rubbed through a cullender , season with salt and cayenne. It is very good without the lean ham and fowl. SOUP FOR THE POOR. Wash an ox head very clean ; break the bones, and cut the meat in pieces; put it on in thirteen gallons of water, with a peck and a half of potatoes, half a peck of turnips, the same quantity of onions, and some carrots — peel and cut them all down; a handful of pot-herbs, and two quarts of oatmeal ; season with pepper and salt; cover the pot closely, and let it stew till the next morning; add as much hot water as may have wasted in boiling, letting it stew for some hours longer, when it will be fit for use. This soup will be found very good for a family dinner. SOUP FOR AN INVALID. Cut in small pieces one pound of beef or mutton, or part of both ; boil it gently in two quarts of water ; take off tlte scum, and when reduced to a pint, strain it. Season with a little salt, and take a tea-cupful at a time CHICKEN PANADA. Skin a fowl; cut it in pieces, leaving the breast whole ; boil it in three pints of water till perfectly tender ; pick off all the meat, and pound it finely in a mortar, and mix it wdth the liquor it was boiled in ; rub it through a sieve, and season it with salt. RICE AND MILK. To every quart of good milk, allow two ounces of rice; wash it well in several waters ; put it with the milk into a closely-covered sauce-pan, and set it over a slow fire ; when it boils take it off; let it stand till it be cold, and simmer it