POULTRY. 141 A FOWL A LA HOLANDAISE. Make a forcemeat of grated bread, half its quantity of minced suet, an onion, or a few oysters, and some boiled parsley; season with pepper, salt, and grated lemon-peel, and an egg beaten up to bind it. Bone the breast of a good- sized young fowl, put in the forcemeat, cover the fowl with a piece of white paper buttered, and roast it rather more than half an hour ; have ready a thick batter made of flour, milk, and eggs, take off the paper, and pour some of the batter over the fowl; as soon as it becomes dry add more, and do this till it is all crusted over, and of a nice brown colour ; serve it with melted butter and lemon pickle, or a thickened brown gravy. COLD CHICKEN FRIED. Cut the chicken in quarters, and take off the skin ; rub it with an egg beaten up, and cover it with grated bread sea- soned with pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, and chopped pars- ley ; fry it in butter; thicken a little brown gravy with flour and butter, add a little cayenne, lemon pickle, and mushroom catsup. TO MAKE A PILLAU. WASH very clean two pounds of rice; stew it till perfectly tender with a little water, half a pound of butter, some salt, whole white pepper, cloves, and mace, and keep the stew- pan closely covered ; boil two fowls and one pound and a half of bacon; put the bacon in the middle, and the fowls on each side, cover them all over with the rice, and garnish with hard-boiled eggs and fried whole onions. CHICKEN BAKED IN RICE. Cut a chicken into joints as for a fricassee; season it well with pepper and salt, lay it into a pudding dish lined with slices of ham or bacon, add a pint of veal gravy, and an onion finely minced ; fill up the dish with boiled rice well pressed and piled as high as the dish will hold; cover it with a paste of flour and water, bake it one hour, and before serving take off the paste. CHICKENS IN PEAS. Cut the chickens into joints, and put them into a sauce- pan with nearly a quart of young peas, a bit of butter, a cibol, and a sprig of parsley; put them on the fire, dusting