257 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. NUN’S BEADS. Pound in a mortar four ounces of good cheese, with a little salt, the beaten yolks of three eggs, and some crumbs of bread; roll them as large as walnuts, cover them with puff paste, and fry them in butter a light brown colour. Serve them in a napkin, FINE PANCAKES. To three table-spoonfuls of flour, add six well-beaten eggs, three table-spoonfuls of white wine, four ounces of melted butter, nearly cold, the same quantity of pounded loaf sugar, half a grated nutmeg, and a pint of cream ; mix it well, beating the batter for some time, and pour it thin over the pan. SCOTCH PANCAKES. Mix with six table-spoonfuls of flour a little cream ; add the beaten yolks of six eggs, and then mix in a pint of cream, the grated peel of a small lemon, a table-spoonful of pounded sugar, and a little ratafia ; when the batter is very well beaten, and just before using, mix in the whites of the eggs, beaten with a knife to a stiff froth. Put a little butter or lard into the frying-pan, make it hot, pour it out, and wipe the pan with a clean cloth ; put in some more butter or lard, and when hot, pour in a tea-cupful of the batter ; shake it, and when firm, prick it a little with a fork, but do not turn it; hold it before the fire a minute to brown. Serve them with pounded loaf sugar strewed over them. FRENCH PANCAKES. Beat separately the yolks and whites of seven eggs ; beat with the yolks four table-spoonfuls of pounded loaf sugar, the same quantity of flour, one pint of cream or milk, the grated peel and juice of one lemon, and two table-spoonfuls of rose water ; add the beaten whites the last thing. Allow three table-spoonfuls to each pancake. COMMON PANCAKES. With nearly half a pound of flour, mix five well-beaten eggs, and then add, by degrees, a quart of good milk; fry them in fresh lard, and serve them with pounded loaf sugar strewed between each. ANOTHER ’WAY TO MAKE COMIVTON PANCAKES. With a pint of new milk, mix by degrees six table-spoon- K