222 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. CHERRY TART. The cherries may be stoned, and a few red currants added; sweeten with loaf or brown sugar, and put into the bottom of the dish a small tea-cup ; cover it with paste. RHUBARB TART. Strip off the peel, and if the rhubarb is large, cut it into two or three strips, and then into bits about an inch long; sweeten well with brown sugar, and cover the dish with paste. GOOSEBERRY TART. Goosberries, green-gage, green apricots before the kernel gets hard, magnum-bonum, and purple egg-plums, damsons, and cranberries, are sweetened with brown sugar, and made into tarts in the same manner as the preceding. The tops and tails must be taken off the gooseberries, and the plums may be scalded and skinned. CHESHIRE TART. Line a tart-dish with puff paste ; fill it with a rich custard; pare and take out the core of three or four apples, place them in the custard, and put upon each some orange marmalade, or any other preserve. Bake it in an oven. TARTLETS. Rub over patty-pans a little bit of butter, and line them with tart or puff paste ; fill them with marmalade, preserved strawberries, raspberries, currants, or any sort of fruit; take a smiall bit of the paste, and with the hand, roll it upon the paste board with flour till it be stiff, and will draw out in straws ; hold it in one hand, and with the other draw it out; w'ith these small strings, cross the tartlets according to fancy ; w^et the edge, and lay on a narrow' rim of paste cut with the paste-cutter. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE TARTLETS. Roll out the paste about a quarter of an inch thick, and lay upon it the top part of the patty-pan ; cut it round with the paste-cutter. Rub the patty-pans with a little butter, and line them with the paste, and place in the middle a little bit of bread, which take out when they are baked. They may be filled with any preserved fruit, and a star or leaf of paste placed on the top. To make ornaments of jiaste, roll it quite thin, and as even as possible; cut it with tm stars