370 DOMESTIC WINES, &c. pounds of Malaga, and twenty-eight pounds of Smyrna rai- sins, are allowed; the stalks being picked out, they are to be chopped very small, and with the water, and one pound of crude tartar, put into a tub, in which they are allowed to remain for a fortnight. The raisins are then to be squeezed to dryness, and the liquor strained, put into a cask, and treated as wine from ripe currants. ORANGE WINE. For a ten-gallon cask, ninety bitter oranges are to be pared very thin, and the juice squeezed from them, which, with six gallons of water and twenty-eight pounds of sugar, is put into the cask ; half the peel may be steeped in two gallons of water for twelve hours, and the water poured into the cask ; they are again to be steeped in the remaining quantity of water, with which the cask is to be filled up ; it must be stirred every day till the sugar is dissolved, and bunged up when the fermentation ceases. In two months it may be racked and fined, and in three months more bottled. Those who think brandy necessary, may add a bottle at the end of the first two months. The wine will be more generally agreeable if the peel be altogether omitted. Z.El»ION WINE. To every gallon of water, four pounds of sugar, and the juice of ten lemons, are allowed ; the lemons are to be pared very thin, and half the peel being put into a tub, the sugar and w'ater are boiled and poured over it; when cold, the juice is added; if the fermentation does not begin in the course of a few days, it is to be promoted by the addition of a toast of bread covered with yeast; the peel is then taken out, and the liquor put into the cask, which must be bunged up when the fermentation ceases. In this, as in orange wine, the peel may be omitted. IVIALT WINE. Thirty pounds of sugar are to be boiled half an hour with ten gallons of water, and well skimmed; when milk- warm, five gallons of new ale, from the vat, are added to it, and it is allowed to ferment two days in a tub; it is then put into the cask, with one p»ound of sugarcandy pounded, and four pounds of raisins of the sun chopped. When the fermentation ceases, it is racked and fined. It may be bottled at the end of six or twelve months.