452 BEES. the cells that were uppermost to be so still; then let the hand be removed, and the hive replaced. In England, a swarm may be expected in May, but not till June in Scot- land ; preceding the swarming, may be observed, amongst other signs, small drops of perspiration at the entrance, and when the bees cluster on the outside of the hive, the bee- master must be constantly on the watch. In general, they will swarm with the first sunshine; but if they continue to lie out when the weather is favourable, a little water may be squirted on them. The swarm once on the wing, it should never be lost sight of. Ringing of bells, and other noises, are more likely to do harm than good. It is unnecessary to pre- pare the hive with any thing sweet or odoriferous ; but if the swarm does not remain in one hive, give them another. The easiest situation for hiving a swarm is that in which the hive can be held under the swarm, and the bees shaken into it. In all cases, a goose wing will be found of essential service to brush the bees off the post into the hive ; but great care must be taken that none of the knots of bees which may contain the queen bee, drop upon the ground. The hive, when the bees have been all shaken or brushed into it, should he placed on the board, and left near the place of the swarm’s first settling, until the evening, when it should be carefully removed and placed on a pedestal, at some distance from the parent hive. A second swarm may generally be looked for on the eighth or tenth day after the first — sometimes sooner, but never later than the twelfth day after. The day before the departure of the second swarm, the call of the queen bees may be distinctly heard ; the note of the one is loud and clear — that of the other, the young queen, is lower, but equally distinct, and totally different from the hum of the other bees. As they give no other signal of their second swarming, it is necessary to keep a vigilant watch over the hives, to ascertain from which the swarm departs. It is ge- nerally necessary to return the second swarm to the parent hive immediately. They are seldom or never worth preser- ving as a separate colony, except when two fly off together, in which case they become, by a union, of little inferior value to a first swarm. Supposing the two swarms to have alighted upon separate branches, proceed to shake one of them into the empty hive, and then immediately shake the other into the same, leaving it to the bees to kill the superfluous queen bee, that is, if tlie proprietor has not the skill or courage to do it. To join two swarms from different hives, it will be neces-