BEEF. 85 vinegar and mustard. They may be served without being out small, either hot or cold ; if hot, serve with thick parslej- and butter. ANOTHER OX-FEET OR COW-HEEL. Cut them into small bits; dip them into the yolk of an egg beaten up; roll them in bread crumbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, and minced parsley; fry them in butter. Cut into thin slices a good dish of onions, fry them in butter, and serve them hot, with the fried heel laid upon them. The liquor may be made into jelly, or used to enrich sauces and gravies. OX-BLOOD PUDDINGS. Let the blood run into a deep pan ; stir it all the time, and when it is nearly cold, throw in a little salt; rub it through a hair sieve ; mix a pint of milk with two quarts of blood. Chop some suet, mix it with minced onion, pepper, salt, and two or three handfuls of oatmeal; then add the blood and milk. To clean the pudding skins, wash them thoroughly, and let them lie a night in salt and water. When they are to be filled, tie one end, and turn the inside out; half fill them, and tie them in rings, or in equal lengths. When the water boils, throw in a little cold, to put it off the boil, and put in the puddings. In five minutes, put them upon a dish, and prick them with a large needle ; return them into the pot, and boil them half an hour. Hang them up in a dry cool place, to keep them. When they are to be used, put them on in hot water for ten or fifteen minutes, and then broil them. MEAL PUDDINGS. Sift a pound of oatmeal, chop three quarters of a pound of suet, mince some onions, and mix all together ; season well with pepper and salt; half fill the skins, and boil and dress them as directed in the receipt for ox-blood puddings. Some people think a little sugar an improvement. OX-LIVER PUDDINGS. Boil the liver and grate it; mix, in equal quantities, grated liver, grated bread, and minced suet; season well with black and Jamaica pepper, a little grated nutmeg, salt, and a gla«!s of rum. Half fill the skins, and manage them in the same way as the other puddings. Some persons use double the quantity of suet.