CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 293 SUGAR RUFFS. A POUND of pounded and sifted loaf sugar beaten well with the whites of three eggs, and flavoured with oil of cinnamon, lemons, or orange-flower water, and baked in the same way as the meringues, served in a napkin, or used to garnisli dishes of preserves. POTATO BISCUIT. Beat separately the yolks and whites of fifteen eggs, and with the yolks beat a pound of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and the grated peel of a lemon; when very light, add the whites, and sift in through a silk sieve half a pound of flour of potatoes ; mix all lightly together, half fill paper cases, and strew over them roughly pounded sugar; put a piece of paper upon a board, place the paper cases upon it, and bake them in a moderate oven. To ornament them, put here and there upon the top a little red-currant jelly, and serve them. TIPSY BREAD. Park off the crust, and cut into thin rouiid slices of four or five inches, the crumb of a twopenny or threepenny roll; spread over each bit raspberry or strawberry jam, and place the slices one over the other pretty high in a glass dish, and pour over them as much sherry, sweetened with sugar, as the bread will soak in; stick round the sides, and over the top, blanched sweet almonds, cut like straws, and pour a custard round it. It may be made the day before, or two or three hours before dinner, and with the crumb of loaf bread. TIPSY CAKE. Pour over a spunge cake, made in the form of a porcupine, as much white wine as it will absorb, and stick it all over with blanched sweet almonds, cut like straws; or pour wine in the same manner over a thick slice of spunge cake, cover the top of it with preserved strawberries or raspberries, and stick cut almonds all round it. LEMON SPUNGE. Boil half an ounce of isinglass in a pint of water till dis- solved ; strain it, and the following day add the juice of two lemons, and the grated peel of one ; rub through a hair-sieve into the isinglass a good quantity of raspberry jam, that has stood before the fire some time, the beaten whites of three eggs, and whisk it all together, till like a spunge; put it into