246 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. tea-cupful of brandy, the well-beaten yolks of eight, and the whites of four eggs : mix all well together, and boil it in a cloth or mould for four hours. Serve it with a sauce of melted butter, sugar, and two table-spoonfuls of brandy. APPLE PUDDING. Weigh one pound and three quarters of apples, pare, core, and cut them into thin bits; weigh also ten ounces of brown sugar ; make a suet paste, rolled thinner towards the edges than in the middle, and sulficiently large to lay into a two- quart basin, previously buttered ; put in the apples and sugar alternately, wet the edges of the paste, and fold it closely over; dredge it with flour, and tie a pudding-cloth over the top of the basin ; boil it for three hours. A light paste may be made with flour, half its quantity in bulk of grated bread and suet, mixing it with milk or water, and, instead of apples, currants, damsons, or any other fruit, may be enclosed in it. WEST COUNTRY PUDDING. Mix, with four well-beaten eggs, half a pound of apples, finely minced, the same quantity of grated bread and of well- cleaned currants, a quarter of a pound of brown sugar, and half a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg. This pudding maybe either boiled or baked, and, instead of grated bread, four ounces of whole rice may be used, which must be boiled in milk, strained, and allowed to be cold before being mixed with the other ingredients. This pudding is boiled one hour and a half, and served with a sweet sauce. PRUNE PUDDING. Stew a pound of prunes with half a pint of port wine, a quarter of a pint of water, and a large table-spoonful of brown sugar; break the stones, and put the kernels, with the fruit; spread it over a sheet of puff paste, wet the edges, and roll it into the form of a bolster; tie it firmly in a buttered and floured cloth, and boil it between two and three hours. Serve with a sweet wine sauce. DAMSON PUDDING. Make a batter with three well-beaten eggs, a pint of milk, and of flour and brown sugar four table-spoonfuls each ; stone a pint of damsons, and mix them with the batter; boil it in a buttered btisin for an hour and a half.