VEAL. no Calfs Head, plain, p. 111.) When done, drain and serve them with parsley and butter. TO DRESS CAU' S FEET. After the feet have been boiled for jelly, heat them in a rich white or brown sauce, in melted butter mixed with mustard and vinegar ; or dip them into melted butter, then into grated bread, and fry them. Serve with parsley and butter, and garnish with fried parsley. VEAl. OUVES. Cut thin slices off a fillet, and flatten them with a roller; season them highly with white pepper, mace, salt, and grated lemon-peel; put a bit of fat into each roll, and tie them with a thread. Fry them of a light brown, and stew them in some white stock, with two dozen of fried oysters, a glass of white wine, a table-spoonful of lemon pickle, and some small mush- rooms. Stew them nearly an hour; take off the threads be- fore serving. Beef olives may be dressed in the same way. MINUTEN FLEISCH. Cut from off a leg of veal some slices as thin as the blade of a knife, and about four inches long; season them with pepper and salt, lay them into a deep dish, pour over them nearly half a pint of white wine, let it stand for three hours. Cover the bottom of a stew-pan with butter, dredge each slice of the veal on both sides with flour, add a little more wine, and as much good white stock as wall cover it, and the juice of a lemon. Cover the pan closely, and let it simmer five minutes, and serve it instantly, otherwise it will become hard. MINCED VEAL. Cut thin slices of lean cold veal; mince them very finely with a knife, and season with white pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg; put it into a sauce-pan, with a little white stock, or water, a table-spoonful of lemon pickle, and a little mushroom powder. Simmer, but do not let it boil; add a bit of butter rolled in flour, and a little milk or cream; put all round the dish thin sippets of bread cut into a three- cornered shape; or, cover the mince thickly with grated bread, seasoned with white pepper, salt, and a little butter, and brown it with a salamander; or serve with poached eggs laid upon the top.