462 PIGS. be added, or ten grains of calomel; but it is better to try the jalap alone first. When pigs are to be made into bacon hams, they should be allowed to fast twenty-four hours before the time of killing, and in killing them great attention ought to be had to prevent the knife from striking against the bone at the bottom of the gullet, by which a morbid state of the flesh in the fore-quarter will be avoided. After the pig has been killed and dressed, it should hang up till the next day, when it must be sawn down the back bone from the tail to the point of the snout; then all the seam or tallow should be removed, with the feet, tail, and ears, and such trifling pieces as may appear offensive to the eye. The side being laid upon a table, with the skin side uppermost, salt should be taken in indefinite quantities, and rubbed in well, particularly upon the shoulders and hams, for at least half an hour ; the side weighing about six stones. In turning the side, four ounces of saltpetre, ground very fine, should be sprinkled very uniformly over the inside and ends of the shanks, above which ought to be laid a covering of salt, about an inch thick, over the whole inside, and gently clapped down by the hand into every crevice, but by no means rubbed in on that side. The side may then be placed upon boards, on a floor where no frost can affect it. If more than one side is cured, they may be laid one above another to any depth, provided the back and belly parts be laid alter- nately, and the skin side always downmost. The whole should be covered with a cloth, and some, though not a very heavy weight, put upon the top. After lying in this state for ten days, they are to be taken up, and rubbed again upon the skin side with salt, for about a quarter of an hour, and covering again the inside with salt, without rubbing, and without any more saltpetre. After the second rubbing, the sides are again put into their former po- sition, and allowed to remain there for other ten days, when they may be taken up, and wholly covered over with barley- meal, and hung up with cords by the shanks, which may be pierced with wooden pins to allow the cord a better hold, to the roof of the kitchen. After hanging there in the heat for two months, they may be hung up in any cool, but dry apart- ment. As the family require them, the pieces may be cut out to any size that may be found most convenient. From the middle of September to the middle of April is the proper curing season. These approved directions for curing, arc given here to make the chapter complete. Various other receipts on the subject will be found under the head of Pork.