158 GAME. garlic; put over each breast a piece of bacon, and into the inside a bit of butter the size of a walnut, dusted with flour, and seasoned with pepper, salt, and thyme ; half roast, and then stew them with some good gravy, a bit of lean ham or bacon, one spoonful of white wine, the same of mushroom catsup and of lemon pickle, a little cayenne, one anchovy, and one shalot. Have ready boiled the hearts of some cab- bages, put them into the stew-pan, and stew them altogether till the partridges be sufficiently tender. Before serving, take out the ham. TO ROAST RABBITS. Truss them for roasting, and stuff them with the liver minced raw, grated bread, and ham, butter or suet, and chopped parsley, seasoned with a little lemon thyme, grated nutmeg, salt and pepper, and bound with an egg beaten. Sew them up, and roast them before a quick fire, and baste them with butter. Serve them with gravy, or melted butter with lemon pickle in it. Two will take an hour to roast. They may be larded with bacon. They may also be fricasseed or fried, cut into joints, with plenty of fried parsley, and served with a sauce made of the liver and some parsley chopped, and mixed in melted butter, with a little pepper and salt; or made into a pie the same as chickens. TO STEW RABBITS After being thoroughly cleaned and dried, cut the rab- bits into joints; stew them with a quarter of a pound of butter, a large onion minced, some whole pepper, mace and salt, a slice or two of lean ham or pickled pork, a bunch of sweet herbs, and add water sufficient to cover them; when nearly done, take out the herbs, pepper, and ham; and thicken the gravy with the beaten yolks of four eggs. A little cream and some mushrooms may be added. RABBITS STEWED WITH A BROWN SAUCE, OR WITH A WHITE SAUCE. Wash and clean the rabbits well; let them lie for two or three hours in cold water, cut them into joints, wash and dry them in a cloth, dust them with flour, and fry them of a light brown with butter, and stew them in the following sauce : — Brown three ounces of butter in a stew-pan, with a table-spoonful of flour, a minced onion, some pepper and salt; add a pint of gravy and the rabbits, stew them till they