VEGETABLES. 197 TO DRESS THE LEAVES OF WHITE BEET. Pick and wash them clean; put them on in boiling water with a little salt; cover the sauce-pan, and boil them longer than spinach ; drain off the water, and beat them as spinach, with a bit of butter and a little salt. TO DRESS FRENCH BEANS. Trim some nice young French beans, and boil them in salt and water; drain them quite dry, and pour over them the following sauce : — Boil a little sauce tournee, and thicken it with the beaten yolks of two eggs and a little finely-chop- ped parsley, with a piece of fresh butter, a little pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon added, and all stirred till hot. Or, put them into a stew-pan, and, when quite hot, add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a little pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon; shake the stew-pan frequently, but do not use a spoon. If the butter does not mix well, add half a spoonful of sauce tournee. TO FRICASSEE FRENCH BEANS. Boil the beans as for eating, and having strained off the water, put them into a sauce-pan, with half a pint of cream ; dredge in a little flour and grated nutmeg. Make them hot before serving. PEAS PUDDING. Put a quart of split peas to soak for two hours into warm water; boil them in soft water, with a bit of butter, till sufficiently tender to press through a sieve ; pulp them, and add the beaten yolk of one egg, a little pepper and salt, and an ounce of butter. Tie it into a buttered and floured cloth, and put it on in boiling water; boil it nearly an hour. TO PRESERVE GREEN PEAS FOR WINTER USE. Fill wide-mouthed quart bottles to the neck with green peas; place them upon the fire in a pan of cold water, and when it boils, take them out, and immediately cork them tightly, and seal them. Keep them in a cold place. ANOTHER WAY TO PRESERVE GREEN PEAS. Put into a sauce-pan of boiling water fresh-gathered and fresh-shelled peas, but not very young ; as soon as they boil up, pour off the water, and put them upon a large dry cloth folded, and then upon another, that they may be perfectly