POULTRY. 137 PIGEONS WITH RICE AND PARMESAN CHEESE. Pick and wash clean half a dozen nice pigeons ; cut them into quarters ; brown some butter with flour; add to it a pint of good stock, with three grated onions, some pepper and salt; stew the pigeons in this till tender, take them out and mix in the juice of one lemon, boil and strain the sauce over the pigeons. Boil about three quarters of a pound of whole rice in a pint and a half of stock, with half a pound of fresh but- ter, some grated nutmeg, and salt; when it is tender, add two handfuls of grated Parmesan cheese. Put more than half of the rice equally round the dish in which the pigeons are placed, and cover them with what remains ; brush it over with a well-beaten egg, and then strew it thickly with more Parmesan ; cover a flat baking-tin with salt, place the dish upon this, and bake it for nearly three quarters of an hour in a slow oven : it should be of a fine gold colour. PIGEONS EN SURPRISE. Truss five pigeons as for boiling, and blanch them for an instant in boiling water; after taking them out, put in five fine-headed lettuces, and boil them a quarter of an hour good ; put them into fresh water, and then press out all the water ; open them in two without detaching the leaves ; put in a forcemeat made of the livers of the pigeons, parsley, cibol, five or six leaves of tarragon, a little chervil, two shalots, all finely minced, mixed with a bit of butter or lard, seasoned with salt and pepper, and bound with the beaten yolks of two eggs ; then put a pigion into each lettuce, so as to con- ceal it completely; tie it up, and stew all slowly for an hour in a fat broth, with parsley, cibol, two onions, a carrot, a parsnip, two cloves, some pepper and salt; then drain and untie them, and serve over them a fine veal cullis, or the sauce in which they were stewed, first straining, taking off the fat. reducing, and thickening it with flour kneaded with a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and the yolks of tw'o eggs. TO BROIL PIGEONS. Clean them and split the backs; season them with pepper and salt; broil, and serve them with parsley.and butter poured round them. TO BROIL PIGEONS WHOLE. Clean them well, cut off the wings and neck, leaving skin enough at the neck to tie ; make a forcemeat with bread