196 VEGETABLES. VEGETABLE MARROW. Is fit for use when about the size of a turkey’s egg. After being washed clean, it is put on in boiling water, with a little salt, and when tender it is drained from the water, cut into lialf, and served on toasted bread, over which some melted butter has been poured. Or, after being boiled in milk and water, they may be fricasseed as Jerusalem artichokes, or stewed like cucumbers. PEAS FOR A SECOND COURSE DISH, A LA FRANCAISE. s Put a t|uart of fine green peas, together with a bit of but- ter the size of a walnut, into as much warm water as will cover them, in which let them stand for eight or ten minutes. Strain off the water, put them into a sauce-pan, cover it, stir them frequently, and when a little tender, add a bunch of parsley, and a cibol or a young onion, nearly a dessert- spoonful of loaf sugar, ‘and an ounce of butter mixed with a tea-spoonful of flour ; keep stirring them now and then till the peas be tender, and add, if they become too thick, a table-spoonful of hot water. Before serving, take out the cibol and bunch of parsley, A SUMMER SALAD. Wash very clean one or two heads of fine lettuce ; divide it, let it lie some time in cold water; drain, and dry it in a napkin, and cut it small before serving. Mustard and cresses, sorrel and young onions, may be added, and the dish gar- nished with nasturtium flowers. A WINTER SALAD. Wash vqry clean one or two heads of endive, some heads of celery, some mustard and cresses; cut them all small, add a little shredded red cabbage, some slices of boiled beet-root and onion, if the flavour is not disliked ; mix them together with salad sauce. In spring, add radishes, and also garnish the dish with them. LAVER Is dressed in a silver dish, over a lamp ; a bit of fresh butter, and the juice of a Seville orange, are stirred into it till quite hot. It is sent to table in the dish over the lamp. This plant grows upon rocks on the sea shore. It is much used in Wales, and is sent to London in iars prepared for dressing.