CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 311 RICE CAKE. Whisk ten eggs for half an hour ; add to them half a pound of flour of rice, half a pound of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and the grated peel of two lemons ; mix this into half a pound of fresh butter, previously beaten to a cream. Bake the cake in a buttered tin. LITTLE RICE CAKES. Whisk well six yolks and two whites of eggs ; then with a horn spoon beat in six ounces of finely-pounded loaf sugar ; add eight ounces of sifted ground rice, and two table-spoon- fuls of orange-flower or rose water, or the grated peel of a lemon, and just before the mixture is to be put into the tins, stir into it six ounces of fresh butter melted; dust the patty- pans with flour, or rub them with butter; let them be half filled, and bake the cakes in a quick oven. WHITE CAKE. Take of dried and sifted flour, of fresh butter, and of finely-pounded loaf sugar, one pound each ; five well-beaten eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, of candied orange and lemon-peel, cut small, three quarters of an ounce each; one ounce of caraway seeds, half a grated nutmeg, a glass of brandy, and a little rose water; then beat the butter to a cream, and add all the other ingredients to it, and at the last mix in one table-spoonful of fresh yeast; let the cake rise before the fire for half an hour. Bake it in a buttered tin. Instantly upon taking it out of the oven, with a feather brush the top all over with the beaten white of an egg, and then sift loaf sugar upon it. Let it stand at the mouth of the oven to harden. RICH CAKES. Mix together one pound of flour, half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, and half a pound of melted butter ; add a quarter ol a pound of currants, and a glass of brandy, or of raisin vyine; roll out the paste, cut the cakes with a small round tin, and bake them upon a floured tin. CHESHIRE CAKE. Beat for half an hour the yolks of eight, and the whites of five eggs; add half a pound of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, a quarter of a pound of dried and sifted flour, and the grated peel of a small lemon; beat all together, and bake it in a floured tin.