434 KITCHEN GARDEN. as they bleed much ; for the same reason, the leaves must be cut off at least an inch above the top of the root. WHITE BEET. This kind of beet is cultivated only for its leaves, which which are used as spinach. The seeds are sown in the begin- ning of March, in an open spot of ground. When the plants have put out four leaves, they are hoed, and thinned out to at least four inches asunder. A month afterwards a second hoeing is given, leaving the plants about eight inches sepa- rate. The outer leaves being first picked off for use, a succession is afforded for the whole season JERUSALEM ARTICHOKE. This plant is propagated by means of the tubers, which are cut in the manner of potato-sets, and planted in any light soil and open situation, in the end of March. They are placed in rows three feet asunder, and a foot or fifteen inches apart in the rows. In September they are fit for use, and may be left in the ground, and dug up as wanted throughout the winter, being best when newly raised. POTATO. The varieties of the potato are very numerous ; and as no particular kind will continue in perfection much more than fourteen years, new kinds are continually succeeding those that have worn out. At present, for a summer crop, the ash- leaved, early dwarf, and champion, are esteemed ; and, for the winter crop, the American, large and small, and the kidney, are excellent. They will thrive in any light soil, in a free airy situation; and if quantity of produce be particularly desired, too much manure can hardly be given; but they will be of a more delicate flavour from ground not recently enriched. The potato is propagated by cuts of the tubers, leaving one or two eyes or buds to each cut, and eradicating all clustered eyes. The best shaped and cleanest potatoes are selected for this purpose; and the cuts are the better for being allowed to dry for a day or two before planting. They are planted in drills, and covered to the depth of three or four inches; and for the early crop, which may be planted in a light warm border, about the beginning or middle of March, sixteen inches between the lines, and seven or eight inches between each plant, is sufficient; but, for the principal crop, which must be planted about the middle or end of April, two feet is allowed between the rows, and from ten to fifteen inches