CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 288 juice of three sweet or bitter oranges, and six ounces of loaf sugar, part of which has been previously rubbed upon the rind of the oranges; stir it in a sauce-pan over the fire till it boils, put it into a basin, stir it till nearly cold, and then pour it into a mould. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE ORANGE JEIXY. Dissolve two ounces of isinglass in boiling water, add it to the strained juice of twelve oranges and one lemon ; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar ; boil, and strain it. The oranges may be cut into half, and the pulp taken out, the skins placed in a dish to keep them steady, and filled with the jelly. It will be firm in three or four hours ; or it may be served in a mould. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE ORANGE JEZJ.Y. Dissolve one ounce of isinglass in a pint of water; when nearly cold, mix with it the strained juice of eight or nine oranges ; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, and stir it till it be dissolved; strain it through a lawn sieve, and pour it into a shape. POMONA JELLY. Peel, core, and cut into quarters six large, green, acid apples; throw them into cold water, as they are done ; take them out, and adding about five ounces of pounded loaf sugar, stew them till quite soft; rub them through a sieve, and add three quarters of an ounce of isinglass, which has been boiled till dissolved in less than half a pint of water. Rub two lumps of sugar upon the peel of a lemon to extract the fla- vour, add it to the jelly, with a little more sugar if not suffi- ciently sweet; stir it over the fire till quite hot, and then put it into a mould, Turn it out the next day. STRAWBERRY JELLY. Put some fresh-gat tiered strawberries into an earthen pan, bruise them with a wooden spoon, add a little cold water, and some finely-pounded loaf sugar. In an hour or two, strain it through a jelly-bag, and to a quart of the juice add one ounce of isinglass, which has been dissolved in half a pint of water, well-skimmed, strained, and allowed to cool; mix all well, and pour it into an earthen mould. Raspberry jelly, red currant jelly, and red currants mixed with raspberries, may be made exactly in the same manner ; and the bright red colour may be improved by mixing in a little