93 MUTTON. TO BROIL A COLD ROASTED SHOULDER OF MUTTON. A COLD shoulder of roast mutton, having only a little meat upon the blade bone, may be scored, sprinkled with pepper and salt, then broiled, and served with caper sauce poured over it, or melted butter, in which should be mixed of mush- room catsup, lemon pickle, and Harvey sauce, a table- spoonful each. A HAUNCH OF MUTTON LIKE VENISON. Take a fat haunch of large fine mutton, let it hang a week, then pound one ounce of black, and one ounce of Jamaica pepper, and rub them over the mutton; pour a bottle of port wine over it, and let it remain in this five days, basting it frequently every day with the liquor ; take it out, and hang it up four or five days more, or as long as the weather favours its keeping; wipe it three or four times a-day with a clean cloth. While it is roasting, baste it with the liquor it was steeped in, adding a little more port wine; a quarter of an hour before taking it from the fire, baste it well with butter, and dredge flour over it to froth it up. Serve it with sauces as for venison. BAKED MUTTON CHOPS. Cut a neck of mutton into neat chops; season them with salt and pepper, butter a dish, lay in the chops, and pour over them a batter made of a quart of milk, four eggs beaten up, four table-spoonfuls of flour, and a little salt. An hour will bake them. TO DRESS MUTTON CHOPS. Pare and trim the chops; dip them into hot melted butter, and cover them with grated bread mixed with chopped parsley, a little sweet marjoram, salt, and pepper ; then dip the chops into the yolks of eggs beaten up, and cover then) with the crumbs as before ; fry them in butter, and serve them with onions browned in butter and seasoned with salt and pepper, or with a thickened brown gravy. ANOTHER WAV TO DRESS MUTTON CHOPS. Cut the chops off a loin or the best end of a nock of mut- ton ; pare off'the lat, dip them into a beaten egg, and strew over them grated bread, seasoned with pepper, salt, and some finely-minced parsley ; fry them in a little butter, and