22 SOUPS. ONION SOUP. Stew till perfectly tender, in about five pints of weak veal or beef stock, two dozen of onions, peeled and sliced, three turnips, one parsnip, two carrots, two heads of celery, with-- out the green part, a bunch of sweet herbs, half an ounce of white pepper, a little salt, and a quarter of a pound of ham; when sufficiently tender, press all the ingredients through a tammy, and let the soup stand till cold ; pound^ the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, mix them with a pint of thick cream, and stir it into the soup and heat it, but be careful not to boil it; new milk and the yolks of six eggs will answer instead of cream. Toast a piece of bread the size of a small roll, and put it into the soup before serving it. ANOTHER ONION SOUP. Boil in four quarts of water six pounds of a knuckle of veal, with a dessert-spoonful of whole white pepper, and a few blades of mace; when the meat is so much boiled as to leave the bone, strain off the stock. The following day boil nine or ten large Spanish onions in milk and water, till sufficiently tender to pulp through a sieve; take the fat off from the top of the stock, boil it up, and add the onions with about a quarter of a pound of fresh butter worked with two heaped table-spoonfuls of sifted flour of rice, and a little salt; boil it gently for half an hour, stirring it constantly, and, a little before serving, stir in half a pint of rich cream. CARROT SOUP. Make a rich stock with a shin of beef, a quarter of :i pound of lean ham, a fowl, or a piece of veal, a bunch of i sweet herbs, two onions, a carrot, black and Jamaica pep- per, salt, and three cloves; strain it, and when cold take off all the fat; clean and boil, till they become very tender, the red pai-t of twelve or thirteen carrots, according to their size, and two turnips ; pound them in a mortar ; pound half a pound of cold roast-beef, or beef steak ; warm it, and rub it with the carrots through a tammy or sieve; add this to the soup, and serve it boiling hot. Stock made with bones may be substituted for fresh beef stock. ANOTHER CARROT SOUP. Wash, scrape, and slice ten or twelve carrots; put them, with an ounce and a half of butter, into a stew-pan, cover