BEEF. 73 one of brown sugar, and half an ounce of saltpetre; turn them daily, and in a fortnight they may be used. The best sort of vessel for salting them in is an earthen- ware pan, as wide at top as bottom, so that the tongues may lie in it long-ways. TO SA1.T BEEF FOR IMMEDIATE USE. Salt a round of beef moderately upon the top and sides ; put it upon sticks, or the tongs of a cheese-tub, over a tub of cold water, and the salt will be drawn through it, so that it will be fit for boiling next day. ANOTHER METHOD Is, to rub for half an hour into any piece of beef a good quantity of salt, and let it lie for three or four days without touching it, when it may be used. PICKLE FOR BEEF. Allow to four gallons of water two pounds of brown sugar and six pounds of bay salt; boil it about twenty mi- nutes, taking off the scum as it rises ; the following day pour it over the meat which has been packed into the pickling-tub. Boil it up every two months, adding three ounces of brown sugar and half a pound of common salt. By this means it will keep good a year. The meat must be sprinkled with salt, and next day wiped dry, before pouring the pickle over it, with which it should always be completely covered. With the addition of two ounces of saltpetre and one pound of bay salt, this pickle answers for pickled pork, hams, and tongues. The tongues should be rubbed with common salt, to cleanse them, and afterwards with a little saltpetre, and allowed to lie for four or five days before they are put into the pickle. The meat will be ready for use in eight or ten days, and will keep for three months. TO COLLAR BEEF. Cut off the end of a brisket of beef, and bone it; sprinkle it with salt and saltpetre, and let it lie a week ; mix together some grated nutmeg, Jamaica and black pepper, some chopped lemon thyme, sweet marjoram, and parsley ; strew it over the meat, roll it up hard, sew it in a cloth, put it into a large jar of water, tie it closely, and bake it ia an oven ; take it out of the jar, and press it with a heavy weight. When it is quite cold, take off the cloth, and keep it dry.