236 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. baked in a Dutch oven, and after baking in it for three quarters of an hour, put a tin cover over the top, and place the dish upon a gridiron, over a slow fire, and let it remain for fifteen minutes. RATAFIA PUDDING. Pound, with a little rose water, two ounces of blanched sweet almonds, and half a quarter of a pound of ratafia cakes ; add the well-beaten yolks of six, and the w'hites of two eggs, a pint of thick cream, two glasses of white wine, and one ounce of pounded loaf sugar. Bake it in a dish, lined with puff paste, for three quarters of an hour. WHOLE RICE PUDDING. Boil, in one pint and a half of water, till it be swelled, twelve dessert-spoonfuls of whole rice, with two table-spoon- fuls of minced suet, and four of cleaned currants ; then add two table-spoonfuls of grated bread, six of brown sugar, two wxll-beaten eggs, a quart of warm milk, a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, and one of ginger. Bake it in a buttered dish. It may be baked in a Dutch oven. Half the quantity will make a pudding for a small family. WHOLE RICE PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS. Weigh six ounces of rice, six of brown sugar, and three and a half of fresh butter; break the butter into small bits; wash the rice in several waters; put all into a pudding-dish, and fill it up with good milk ; let it soak some hours. Bake it in a moderate oven fbr nearly two hours, and as the milk wastes, fill up the dish with more, till the rice be swelled and soft; then let it brown. BAKED HASTY PUDDING. Boil two ounces of flour in a pint of milk ; stir it till it be thick and stiff; put it into a basin, and add half an ounce of butter and a little nutmeg, with sugar sufficient to sweeten it. When cold, mix in three well-beaten eggs ; line a dish with thin paste, and in the bottom of it put a layer of orange marmalade, or any other preserve, and bake the pudding in a moderate oven for half an hour. It is very good without the paste, and may be baked in a Dutch oven. NASSAU PUDDING. Put into a sauce-pan the whole yolks of eight, and the whites of four eggs, half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, and