Ifi8 VEGETABLES. with a very little salt, into boiling water; boil them twenty minutes, or half an hour if very large. They may be boiled in milk and water, and require to be skimmed with particular attention. TO BOIL SPINACH. Pick it very carefully, and wash it thoroughly two or three times in plenty of cold water; then put it on in boiling water, with a little salt ; let it boil nearly twenty minutes, put it into a cullender, hold it under the water-cock, and let the water run on it for a minute ; put it into a sauce-pan, beat it perfectly smooth with a beater, or with a wooden spoon, add a bit of butter, and three table-spoonfuls of cream; mix it well together, and make it hot before serving. When dished, it is scored in squares with the back of a knife. ANOTHER WAY TO BOIL SPINACH. After being nicely picked and well washed, put it into a sauce-pan, with no more water than adlieres to it > add a little salt; cover the pan closely, and boil it till tender, fre- quently shaking it; beat it quite smooth, adding butter and cream, and make it quite hot. Spinach may be served with poached eggs, or fried suasages laid on it. When the spinach is bitter, it is preferable to boil it in water. TO DRESS SPINACH. Pick the spinach with great care ; strip tlie leaves from the stalks, and wash it in several wateis, till perfectly clean ; boil the spinach in salt and water ; drain it well; pound it in a mortar, and put it into a stew-pan, with a little butter and broth, and let it stew over a slow fire for three quarters of an hour, till it be very dry ; then add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, with salt and grated nutmeg ; work the spi- nach well, till it is thick, but take care the butter does not turn to oil. Garnish with fried toasts of bread, which may be cut like cocks’ combs, or in any other form. TO BOIL WINDSOR BEANS. Shell and wash them ; put them on in boiling water, with a little salt in it; boil them fifteen or twenty minutes. In Scotland, they are, when old, parboiled, the skins taken oft', and then put on in boiling water, and boiled till tender. When there is neither pickled pork nor bacon at table, pars- ley and butter is served with them.