CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 201 RXCE CUPS. Sweeten a pint of milk with pounded loaf sugar, and boil it with a stick of cinnamon ; stir in sifted ground rice till thick ; take it off the fire, and add the well-beaten whites of three eggs ; stir it again over the fire for two or three minutes, then put it into tea-cups previously dipped in cold water; turn them out when cold, and pour round them a custard cream made with the yolks of the eggs ; place upon the rice a little red currant-jelly or raspberry jam. This dish may be served warm or cold; if cold, raspberry cream or custard may be poured round it. GOOSEBERRY PASTE. Gather, when quite ripe, the rough red gooseberries ; top and tail them ; put them into a jar, tie it over with bladder, and boil it in a pot of water till the fruit be perfectly soft; pour off the thin juice, and with a wooden spoon rub the gooseberries through a fine hair-sieve ; allow rather more than half the weight of the pulp of pounded loaf sugar, mix it together, and boil it till it will jelly, which will take almost two hours ; stir, and skim it, then put it into a dish, and serve it when cold, to be eaten with cream. The thin juice may be boiled with its weight of good brown sugar, and used as gooseberry jelly. APPLE PASTE. Pare, core, and cut small seven pounds of apples — the Carlisle or Keswick codlinis the best; put them into a pre- serving pan with one pint of water; boil them till quite soft, and add the weight of the apples in pounded loaf sugar, three ounces of pounded ginger, the juice of four lemons, and three or four table-spoonfuls of marmalade; stir and boil it for half an hour, and put it into moulds. GOOSEBERRIES, CURRANTS, CHERRIES, APPLES, AND OTHER FRUITS. To stew any of these fruits, put them into a wide-mouthed jar, with a sufficiency of brown sugar to sweeten them ; cover it very closel)^ and set it into a pot of water to boil till the fruit becomes tender. By this method the flavour of the fruit is better preserved than by any other. APRICOTS IN WHITE JELLY. Put a few preserved apricots into a shape, fill it up with white currant jelly; and when cold and firm, turn it out.