356 PICKLES. spoonful each ; boil it till the anchovies are dissolved. When cold, strain and bottle it. LEMON PICKLE. Cut into quarters, and pick out all the seeds of six mid- dling-sized lemons ; put them into a jar, strew over them two ounces of well-beaten bay salt; cover the jar with a cloth and plate, and let it stand three days; then put to them six cloves, and a quarter of an ounce of mace, beaten fine, one ounce of garlic or shalot, two of mustard-seed bruised, and one nutmeg sliced. Make a quart of vinegar boiling hot, and pour it over the ingredients ; cover the jar, and in three or four days close it with a bung, and tie leather over it. It will be fit for use in a week, and is an improvement to most sauces, and particularly to fish sauce. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE LEMON PICKLE. Grate off a little of the outer rind of two dozen of lemons; divide them into four rather more than half way down, leaving tlie bottom part whole ; rub on them equally half a pound of finely-beaten bay salt, spread them upon a large dish, and put them into a cool oven. When the juice has dried up, put them into a stone jar, with an ounce of cloves and one of mace finely beaten, one ounce of nutmeg cut into thin slices, a quarter of an ounce of cayenne, and four ounces of garlic peeled, also half a pint of white mustard-seed bruised and tied in a bit of muslin. Pour over the whole two quarts of boiling vinegar, stop the jar closely, and let it stand for three months ; then strain it through a hair-sieve, press- ing it well through ; let it stand till the next day, pour off the clear, and put it into small bottles. Let the dregs stand co- vered some days, when it will become fine. It will keep good for years. When the lemons are to be used^ as a pickle, no straining is necessary. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE LEMON PICKLE. Cut into slices nine lemons, and put over them one pound of salt, two ounces of horse-radish sliced thin, the same of flour of mustard, half an ounce of white pepper; of cloves, nutmeg, mace, and cayenne, a quarter of an ounce each ; pound the spices, add three quarts of vinegar, and boil the whole twenty minutes ; put it into ajar, and let it stand three weeks, stirring it daily; then strain it through a sieve, and keep it for use in small bottles.