PRESERVES. 343 in an hour, take them out, and tie strong paper over each, and set them in a dry cool place The bottles may be placed in a bottle-rack, with the neck downwards. Damsons, cherries, and gooseberries, may be done in this way ; any sort will keep for a year. Cut off the stalks of the cherries, and top and tail the gooseberries. TO KEEP GREEN GOOSEBERRIES. Gather the gooseberries when quite formed, but not the least soft; top and tail them; fill them into wide-mouthed bottles up to the neck, and cork them slightly; place them in a copper, with sawdust or straw in the bottom, and pour in cold water to reach to the necks of the bottles ; light the fire, and when the water boils up, instantly take out the bottle^, and fill them up from a tea-kettle with boiling water ; cork them again slightly, and when cold, put them in tightly ; lay the bottles upon their sides in a dry cool place, and turn them every other day for a month. When to be used, the liquor and fruit are put into a dish, and sweetened with brown sugar. TO SAVE SUGAR IN PRESERVING CHERRIES, GREEN GAGES, DAMSONS, CURRANTS, AND RASPBERRIES. Gather the fruit perfectly dry, and to a pound allow five ounces of finely-pounded loaf sugar ; put a layer of fruit into a wide-mouthed bottle or jar, and then one of sugar, till the vessel is full; tie tightly over it two folds of sound bladder, and put them into a copper or pan, with straw in the bottom, and water as high as the necks, and let them simmer for three hours. When the water cools, take o\tt the bottles, and keep them in a cool dry place. DAMSONS FOR WINTER USE. Gather the damsons when just ripe, and perfectly sound ; fill a two-gallon brandy keg, and pour over two pounds of treacle ; close the keg firmly, and turn it every day. TO PRESERVE DAMSONS. To every pound of damsons allow three quarters of a pound of pounded loaf sugar; put into jars alternately a layer of damsons, and one of sugar ; tie them over with bladder or strong paper, and put them into an oven after the bread is withdrawn, and let them remain till the oven is cold. The following day strain off the sirup, and boil it till thick. When