470 APPENDIX — No. II. ALMOND CAKES. Four ounces of sweet, and two of bitter almonds, blanched and finely pounded with a little grated sugar, of which add twelve ounces, the well-beaten whites of three eggs, and one ounce of sifted ground rice. Bake them in small tins buttered. CHEESE CAKES. To the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, add three ounces of finely pounded and sifted sugar, two ounces of pounded sweet almonds, and one ounce of butter beaten to a cream. Bake them in small tins buttered. A SWEET CAKE. Beat one pound of fresh butter to a cream ; add the yolks and whites of twelve eggs, well and separately beaten, one pound of grated and sifted sugar, one pound and a quarter of dried and sifted flour, two pounds of well-cleaned currants; of citron, candied orange and lemon peel, cut small, half a pound; of sweet and bitter almonds, blanched and pounded, two ounces each; a tea-spoonful of pounded cinnamon, and one of grated nutmeg, and a large wine-glass of the best French brandy; beat all these ingredients well together. Bake it in a buttered tin, lined with paper also buttered, and put two or three inches above the tin shape, to prevent the cake browning too quickly. PERTH CAKE. With one pound and a half of flour, mix six ounces of brown sugar, half a pound of well-cleaned currants, a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, and one of cinnamon or of ginger ; half a pound of butter melted in one pint of milk ; two tea-spoonfuls of soda dissolved in two table-spoonfuls of cold milk, and about thirty drops of essence of lemon; beat all well together, and bake it in a buttered tin. One pound of currants may be used. TENBY CAKES FOR BREAKFAST. With one pound and a half of flour, rub two ounces of butter; add as much milk warmed as will moisten it, one or two table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast, and a beaten egg ; knead it well, and set it before the fire to rise ; when raised, work it up into a light dough, and set it again before the fire. Form or roll it into small cakes, place them upon a floured tin before the fire, and when they look light, put them into the oven to bake about ton or fifteen minutes.