SOUPS. 17 toasted and cut in dice, and then pour in the stewed ingre- dients. ANOTHER SOUP MAIGRE Brown half a pound of butter in a sauce-pan, and stew it for a quarter of an hour with the following ingredients, all washed clean and chopped small, — four cabbage lettuces, two handfuls of spinach, the same of chervil, one handful of white beet leaves, and one of sorrel, three carrots scraped down, some pepper and salt; add five pints of boiling water, and a large slice of the crumb of bread cut thin and dried before the fire. Stew it gently for two hours; and a little before serving thicken it with the beaten yolks of three eggs, with half a pint of cream or good milk. A pint of green peas and the tops of asparagus may be added. SOUP SANTE. Stew four large onions, peeled and cut small, with four white lettuces, a handful of spinach, and a slice of grated bread, for an hour, in a quart of broth and a quarter of a pound of butter ; then add three pints more of broth, skim off all the fat, and boil it a quarter of an hour ; season with pepper and salt. Before serving, add half a pint of good cream. A pint of green peas, added with the other vege- tables, is a great improvement. OLD PEAS SOUP. Put a pound of split peas on in four quarts of water, with roast beef or mutton bones, and a ham bone, two heads of celery, and four onions ; let them boil till the peas be suffi- ciently soft to pulp through a sieve, which may be in two or three hours ; strain it, put it into the pot with pepper and salt, and boil it nearly an hour. Two or three handfuls of spinach, well washed and cut a little, added when the soup is strained, are a great improvement; and in the summer young green peas in place of the spinach. A tea-spoonful of celery seed, or essence of celery, if celery is not to be had. ANOTHER OLD PEAS SOUP. Boil in five quarts of water one pint of split peas, an ounce of butter, four pounds of beef, two carrots, three tur- nips, four heads of celery, three onions, some salt and black pepper ; boil them till the peas are dissolved and will easily pulp ; put it all through a sieve, then put the soup over the fire with three ounces of butter and a table-spoonful of flour, B