FISH. 55 rrreen colour, by mixing a quantity of finely-minced parsley with the grated bread. When the fish is of a fine brown colour, cover it with paper until it is done. Serve with a Dutch sauce in a sauce-tureen. TO ROAST A PIKE Wash clean, and scrape off the scales, cut off the fins, and take out the inside carefully ; stuff' the fish with the crumb of two rolls, a quarter of a pound of butter, pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and lemon-peel, with an egg to bind it; baste •t well with butter. When dished, stick upon the back ob- long bits of fried toast, and serve with the following sauce : — Dissolve an anchovy in some highly-seasoned gravy, thic- ken it with butter mixed with flour, and a table-spoonful of cream; add a little coratch, cayenne vinegar, walnut catsup, and soy. Lobster sauce may also be served with roast pike. MAIDS. They are the better for being liung up for a day, and may be fried like soles ; or, if large, boil the middle part, and fry the fins to put round the dish. Serve with shrimp sauce. TO BROIL PERCH. Scrape, gut, and wash them; dry them in a cloth, dust them with flour, and broil them. Sauce; — Melted butter. Or they may be broiled without gutting them. When they are to be boiled, follow the directions for boil- ing haddocks at page 47. They may also be stewed as carp are done. TO POT PERCH. Clean the fish, take off’ the head and skin, and season them with a little pounded mace, and some salt; put them into a pan with some butter, and bake them two hours ; drain off the butter, take out the back bone, and strew over the fish a little pounded cinnamon and grated nutmeg. Keep them in a pan, with clarified butter poured over them. RED MULLET. Scrape and wash them, fold them in buttered paper, lay them into a dish, and bake them gently. The liquor that comes from them, boil with a piece of butter, dusted with flour, a tea-spoonful of soy, two of essence of anchovy, and a little white wine. Serve the sauce in a butter-tureen. This fish is called the sea woodcock, from being dressed with the inside.