145 POULTRY. manner; and to hash it, cut it into joints, and heat it tho- roughly in gravy, adding a little soy, and a glass of port wine. TO STEW GOOSE GIBLETS. Clean the giblets nicely; parboil them; cut the necks into three, the gizzards into four, the livers, pinions, and heads into two ; take the outer skin off the feet, stew them in one quart of good stock, with a bunch of sweet herbs, a few peppercorns, two cloves, one anchovy, two large onions, and a table-spoonful of catsup. When the giblets are tender, take them out, and strain the sauce ; thicken it with flour and butter, and a table-spoonful of white Avine or cream. Add the giblets, and serve them quite hot; put sip- pets of thin toasted bread round the dish. Ox tail may be dressed in the same way as the above. ANOTHER WAT TO STEW GOOSE GIBLETS. Prepare the giblets as before directed ; parboil them ; thicken a pint of gravy soup, or the liquor they have been parboiled in, with flour and butter, boil and skim it; add the giblets, with an onion cut small, some pepper and salt; let them stew till they become very tender. Before serving, add a tea-spoonful of vinegar, and a table-spoonful of white wine. To make a giblet pie, prepare them in the same manner, and add with the gravy a glass of port or white wine. SANDWICHES. Cut some bread into thin slices, pare off the crust, and spread a little butter on them ; cut them nicely into oblong pieces, put between each some bits of fowl, and then thin bits of ham, both nicely trimmed ; add a little mustard and salt. Any cold roasted or potted meat may be used. Serve them for luncheon, garnished with curled parsley. DEVIL. Score the leg of a roasted turkey, goose, or fowl ; pepper and salt it well, broil it, and pour over it the following sauce made quite hot ; — Three table-spoonfuls of gravy, one of melted butter, and one of lemon juice ; a large wine-glass of port wine ; of mustard. Chili vinegar, Harvey sauce, and mushroom catsup, a tea-spoonful each; a little cayenne and black pepper. The devil may be served without a sauce, and be more highly seasoned. K