456 BEES. made to separate towards the middle. On the lower division, which may be made the largest, a board is placed, in which one large or some smaller holes are made, to admit of the bees ascending. When the upper part, or top, is filled with honey, it may be removed, and replaced by another prepared for the purpose. Those who wish to see the bees at work, may place a glass top under the straw one, or invert tumblers, or long glasses made for the purpose, over each hole, one or more of which may be removed as they are filled. TO EXTRACT THE HONEY FROM THE COMBS. To obtain the primary honey, heat, celerity, and cleanli- ness, are necessary. Where a few hives only are kept, it will be sufficient to have two or three earthen pans, with a frame of wire adapted to their size, each wire being about one inch distant from another—a corn riddle or flour sieve placed over a tub answers the purpose very well—two horse-hair sieves, a bag of a conical form, that is, wide at top, and tapering to a point at the bottom, made of such canvass as is used in a dairy, and some jars for the reception of the honey, and in which it is to be preserved. The hives should be brought into a warm room, where no bees nor wasps can enter; the combs are then loosened from the hive by a long thin knife; those parts of the comb which are empty should be cut off first, and those that are black and drossy drained by them- selves ; as also those in which there is any farina. Should there be any brood, care must be taken not to crush it, as the juice will communicate a bad flavour to the honey; and those pieces of the comb which contain it, may be placed under any stock that most wants strengthening. If there be any bees upon the combs when taken out, they should be brushed or blown off, and if besmeared witli honey, washed in water made a little warm ; then being laid on a sieve, and placed in the sunshine, they will revive, and fly to their respective homes. The pure combs should be cut in small pieces, sliced twice in a horizontal direction, that is, at the top and at the bottom, and laid on the wire frames to drain ; in two or three hours they maybe turned. When all the primary honey is extracted, it must be run through the bag, whereby it will be entirely freed from every particle of wax. This, the first drawn, should be preserved by itself; the next in value is that which drains from the combs indiscriminately ; a third sort may be obtained by wringing the combs in a cloth, or by placing them in a lukewarm oven. They may be afterwards steeped for mead or vinegar, and the water in which the utensils and the hands