389 MISCELLANY. and use it when perfectly cold. Wet the flannels in cold water, then wash them in fresh cold water, with some of the boiled mixture amongst it; wash them in this, changing the water till they become perfectly clean ; then rinse them well in cold water, and dry them in the shade. Worsted stock- ings, washed in this manner, will be made quite clean ; but particular care must be taken to wet them in clean cold water, previous to washing them in the cold suds. Blankets should be washed in this way also, and when nearly dry, frequently shaken to raise the pile, and to make them soft. All dirty clothes should be laid in cold water the night before being washed. TO WASH COTTON STOCKINGS. Lay them in cold water at night; next day boil them in a copper with some soda and soap ; stir them well about, and they will become quite clean without any rubbing; rinse them well in cold water, and bleach them; when nearly dry, draw them smooth, folding them straight over the instep. Place them under a heavy weight, or iron them. TO WASH COLOURED DRESSES. Turn the inner side out, and wash them in cold water, in which a little boiled soap is well mixed; rinse them well in clean cold water, and the last time with a little salt in the water, and dry them in the shade. They should be washed and dried with as much expedition as possible. TO CLEAN GOLD CHAINS, EAR-RINGS, &C. Make a lather of soap and water; boll the chain in it for a few minutes, and immediately on taking it out, lay it in magnesia powder which has been heated by the fire; when dry, rub it with flannel; if embossed, use a brush. Or wash a gold chain in soap and water; put it, whilst wet, into a bag filled with boxwood sawdust; shake it well, and take it out in a little, when it will be found perfectly clean. The bag must be about eight inches long and three broad; and if boxwood sawdust cannot be obtained, fresh clean bran may be substituted. TO CLEAN GLASSES. Glasses should be washed in a wooden vessel, in which put a sufficiency of cold water to cover them, and rinse them in fresh cold water; wipe off the wet with one cloth, and finish them with another.