58 FISH. black and Jamaica pepper, grated nutmeg, two or three cloves, and some salt; stew them till tender in equal parts of port wine and water, with some horse-radish and an onion ; strain and thicken the liquor with flour and butter, and add a table-spoonful of lemon pickle and one of mushroom cat- sup ; heat it, and pour it hot over the lampreys. Eels may be stewed in this way, keeping on the skins, curling and first frying them of a good brown, FXSH SOUP CAKE. Pick free from bones and skin any cold boiled white fish ; weigh it, and add one third of grated bread crumbs, a little cold melted butter, a small onion minced very fine, some pepper and salt, and the whites of two eggs to bind it; mix it well together, and make it up into the form of a thick cake the size of the dish it is to be sent to table in, and fry it on both sides a nice brown; then stew it in a gravy made of weak stock, and the fish bones boiled in it, with an onion, pepper, and salt; thicken the sauce wdth a little flour and water, and add a dessert-spoonful of mushroom catsup, and one of soy. Veal, beef, or mutton, dressed in this way, is very good. FISH RECHAUFFE. After pike, cod, skate, turbot, soles, or any other white fish, has been dressed, pick it from the bones into small bits ; add to a pound of fish, or in the same proportion, half a pint of good cream, one table-spoonful of mustard, the same of anchovy essence, the same of catsup, and of Harvey sauce, a little flour, some salt, pepper, and butter ; make it all hot in a sauce-pan ; then put it into the dish in which it is to be served up, strew crumbs of bread over it, and baste it with butter till it is a little moist, then brown it with a salamander, or in a Dutch oven. A wall of mashed potatoes round the dish is an improve- ment. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE FISH RECHAUFFE. Pick from the bone in large flakes about two pounds of cold salmon, cod fish, or soles ; melt a quarter of a pound of butter, in half a pint of cream, with a little flour and salt; add the fish, and heat it thoroughly. TO BOIL LOBSTERS 1 IE the claws with a bit of twine, and put them on in