CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 318 irons, having a back to support the cake. To make these cakes soft, they must not be toasted before the fire, but both sides done quickly on the girdle. BARliEY-MEAL SCONS FOR BREAKFAST. Boil a quart of good milk, add a tea-spoooful of salt, and stir it into barley-meal till quite thick ; strew meal over the paste-board, roll out the paste quickly, cut the scons the size of a saucer, dust meal over, and bake them upon a girdle; turn them, and as they are done, lay them one upon another to keep them soft. Serve them in a napkin. GIRDLE CAKES. Rub three ounces of fresh butter into one pound of flour, with half a tea-spoonful of salt *, moisten with a sufficiency of sweet buttermilk to make it into a paste; roll it out, and cut it into cakes with a cup or tumbler, and bake them upon a girdle. BATH BUNS. To four pounds of dried and sifted flour, allow one pound of fresh butter, three quarters of a pound of caraway com- fits, the well-beaten yolks of four, and the whites of two eggs, six table-spoonfuls of cream, and the same quantity of fresh yeast. Melt the butter, mix it with the flour, and add the eggs, cream, and yeast, previously beaten together ; cover it, and let it rise for twenty or thirty minutes, then shake in the caraway comfits, keeping a few to strew over the tops ; form the buns, and bake them upon buttered tins. BISCUIT. Make as stiff a paste as possible of the finest flour, mixing it with cold water, and adding a little salt; beat it out with a rolling pin, cut it into pieces, lay them one over the other, and again beat it out; roll it very thin, cut it into biscuits, and prick them well with a fork. To make the Prince of Wales’ biscuit, roll the paste into small balls, and press it with a stamp. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE BISCUIT Rub seven ounces of fresh butter into two pounds of flour, mix with it two large spoonfuls of yeast, cover it with a cloth, and let it stand an hour ; then add as much warmed new milk as will make it into a paste as stiff as pie-crust; form it into biscuits of about an ounce and a half each ; bake them in a