61 FISH. separate table-spoonfuls upon a large dish. When cold, make them up into the form of mutton cutlets, brush over them the beaten yolks of eggs, dip them into grated bread, and fry them of a light brown colour in boiling clarified beef dripping. Stick into the narrow end of the cutlet a bit of a small claw, about an inch long; place the cutlets round the dish, one a little over the other, and lay fried parsley in the centre of the dish. Instead of the claw, a bit of stick may be put into the end of the oyster cutlet. BRADU FAGADU. Pick the meat out of a lobster; cut it into small bits, season it with two table-spoonfuls of currie powder, some salt, and a little cayenne. Well wash and pick a quantity of spinach sufficient for a dish ; half stew it, closely covered, without any water; then strain off the liquor from it, and add the lobster to it, with a large piece of butter ; cover the stew-pan, and let it stew a quarter of an hour. INDIAN FAGADU. Clean and wash a quantity of spinach ; put it into a sauce- pan without any water, and the meat of a lobster, or a pint of shrimps, picked from the shells and cut small, an onion, and a clove of garlic minced fine, some salt, a few chilies, or cayenne ; when nearly done, add some onions sliced, and fried brown ; cover the stew-pan close for a short time, then keep stirring it till it becomes quite dry ; sour it with lemon juice. LOBSTER SALAD. Broil a boiled lobster; mince the meat with minced onions, pickled green apples, green capsicums, lemon juice, iind salt. DRESSED CRABS. After the crabs are boiled, break the claws, and pick out all the meat carefully from them, and the breast; taking the roe along with a little of the inside. Keep the shell whole; mince up the meat, season it with grated nutmeg, white pepper, salt, some white wine, and a little vinegar; mix in a few bread crumbs, and a good bit of butter; put it into a sauce-pan to heat, stirring it all the time ; when thoroughly heated, fill the shells, previously washed clean, with or without pufF-paste round the edge. Brown them in an oven.