154 PREPAllATORY REMARKS. pounded charcoal, tied in a bit of muslin. Before serving, take out the bag, which will have a most offensive smell, while the bird will be left perfectly sweet. To roast a Wild-Duck. — It should be roasted by a quick fire, well basted with butter, and browned. It will require nearly three quarters of an hour, and when to be served, some beef gravy is poured through the Duck into the dish, and in a sauce tureen some hot port wine is served. The carver makes four cuts along the breast; it is then sprinkled with salt and a little cayenne, the juice of half a lemon is squeezed over it, and the port wine is then poured over all. To roast a Wild-Goose, the same directions are followed as for a Wild-Duck, allowing more time to roast it according to the size of the bird. Widgeons and Teal are dressed in the same manner as the Wild-Duck, and are roasted in ten minutes, and may be served upon fried bread crumbs. Woodcocks and Snipes are roasted without being drawn ; a piece of toasted bread buttered is put under each bird, to catch the trail; they are well basted with butter, and served upon the hot toast over which they M^ere roasted ; a rich brown gravy, or melted butter, is poured round them. Wood- cocks will require half an hour, Snipes and Quails fifteen or twenty minutes, to roast. Ortolans and Green Plovers are not drawn, and are roasted and served in the same manner as Woodcocks. To roast Larks, Wheat ears, and other small birds, they are nicely picked, gutted, cleaned, and trussed ; brushed over with melted butter, and rolled in grated bread, then spitted on a bird spit, which is fastened upon a larger one. They are basted with butter, and sprinkled with some bread crumbs. They will require nearly fifteen minutes to roast, and are served upon fried bread crumbs, and brown gravy in a sauce tureen. Wild Pigeons may be roasted, or made into a pie. Plovers’ Eggs are boiled hard, and served in a napkin, or with green moss put round each in the dish.