VEAL. iia micelli, which has been boiled, and bake it. Boil the liver and lights, mince part of them, stew it in some gravy, thicken it with butter rolled in flour, and add a little catsup. Slice and fry the remainder of the liver and lights with a little bacon ; place the heart upon the mince, and garnish with the fry. TO BROIL A SWEETBREAD. Parboil it, rub it with butter, and broil it over a slow fire; turn it frequently, and baste it now and then, by putting it upon a plate kept warm by the fire with butter in it. TO ROAST SWEETBREADS. Wash, and parboil them in milk and water; then dry and rub them over with the beaten yolk of an egg, and roll them in grated bread, repeat this twice ; roast them of a nice brown colour, in a Dutch oven, and baste them now and then with butter. Sweetbreads dressed in this way may be served with brown gravy, or with bread sauce, so as nearly to cover them. TO FRICASSEE SWEETBREADS WITH BROWN SAUCE. Parboil two or throe fine sweetbreads ; cut them in slices, and dip them into the beaten yolk of an egg which has been mixed with a little flour, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; fry them a nice brown ; thicken some well-seasoned gravy with a little flour, adding a tea-spoonful of lemon juice, two of cat- sup, and a table-spoonful of white wine; boil it well, and then stew in it the sweetbreads for a few minutes before serving. SWEETBREADS A LA DAUPHINE. Ik for a round dish, take four large and fine sweetbreads: if for a long dish, three will suffice. Pare off* the fat and sinews, and blanch them in warm water; parboil them, and when cold, lard them. Rub a stew-pan with fresh butter, and put into it a few sliced carrots and onions, then a layer of slices of fat bacon ; place the sweetbreads upon the bacon, sprinkle a little salt over them, and stew them with a great deal of fire on the top, and a very slow one beneath; when they are nicely browned, cover them with a piece of buttered paper, cut round, and lessen the fire upon the top. They will require to stew for three quarters of an hour; then drain and put them into a pan, with some glaze, and the bacon underneath. Leave them in the glaze till dinner time, drain them again, glaze them of a fine brown, and serve them with sorrel or endive.