BREWING. 423 Quantity of ale or table-beer to be brewed from a given quantity of malt and hops : — From a quarter of malt may be brewed 72 gallons of ale, or 144 of table-beer ; or 27 of ale, and 90 of table-beer. In mashing, the quantity of water employed must exceed the beer required in the proportion of six gallons to every bushel; three will be left in the goods, and the other three evapo- rated in the boiling, cooling, and working. The wort may be all mixed together in the gyle-tun ; or, if strong ale be required, the first and second may be fermented separately from the third, which will be small beer. If the strong ale be desired particularly fine, the second andthird may be fer- mented together, or each mashing may be kept separate ; the first for strong ale, the second for keeping beer, and the third small beer for immediate use. If the beer be not intended for keeping, one bushel of malt and ten ounces of hops will produce 12 gallons of com- mon or table-ale; and ale brewers allow one measure of such ale to be equal to two of small beer. From one bushel of malt, therefore, may be brewed 24 gallons of table-beer, without any table-ale; or nine gallons of ale, and six of table-beer ; or six of ale, and twelve of table-beer. This is the smallest quantity of malt that should be employed for brewing twelve gallons of table-ale. If the ale be intended for keeping, it is advisable to allow six bushels (a boll) of pale malt to brew a hogshead (54 gallons) of good ale. The quantity of hops must be suited to the taste of the con- sumers ; for those who do not like the strong flavour of the hop, two pounds in winter and three in summer may be al- lowed to the boll. The mashing is done by two, three, and sometimes four infusions of hot water. The degree of heat depends on the combination of so many circumstances, that it cannot be fixed by any certain rule. When too hot, it forms the malt into a pulp or paste, so that it will not run out of the mash- tun, and the liquor will neither produce wort of good quality, nor in any considerable quantity. This is more particularly the case when the malt is low ground, that is, fine. When the water is of too low a heat, the beer will be spiritless, and liable to turn sour. A large quantity is mashed at a lower heat than a small; and when beer is intended for keeping, the water should be of a higher temperature. Well-made malt may be mashed at the highest heat; the extremes may be stated at 145° and 190° of Fahrenheit. The first mash stands longer, and is taken at a lower heat.