GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. 179 make it into balls the size of a large nutmeg, and fry them in clarified beef dripping ; or use it for stuffing. ANOTHER FORCEMEAT. Mince, and then pound to a paste, the following ingre- dients : — One pound of lean veal, half a pound of suet, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, six pickled oysters, a small pickled cucumber, six ounces of grated bread ; season with pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg; and bind with the beaten yolks of eggs. Use it for stuffing ; or make it into balls, or flat cakes, and fry them. FORCEMEAT FOR FISH. Pick from the bones the meat of a large haddock, or any sort of white fish; mince it finely, and add the same propor- tions of minced suet and of grated bread, a few chopped oysters, and some boiled parsley chopped; season with a little pounded onion, Jamaica and cayenne pepper, salt, nut- meg, and lemon-peel; mix all well together, and bind it with the well-beaten yolks of eggs ; roll it into small balls, and fry them of a light brown, in fresh beef drippings. Or, It may be made with the meat of the tail, claws, and the soft part of the body, of a lobster : pound it and half an an- chovy ; mix with it an equal quantity of grated bread, a few chopped oysters, and some butter ; season with grated nut- meg, lemon-peel, salt, Jamaica and cayenne pepper ; bind it with the beaten yolks of eggs ; make it into small balls, and fry them. f STUFFING WITHOUT MEAT. Season a quarter of a pound of finely-minced beef suet, and an equal quantity of grated bread, with grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, lemon thyme, and parsley, salt, and pepper ; mix it w'ell together, and bind with a well-beaten yolk of an egg, when it may be used for stuffing veal and fowd. STUFFING FOR A HARE. Parboil the liver and mince it; add an equal quantity of grated bread, double the quantity of fat bacon chopped, a bit of butter the size of a walnut. Season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, chopped lemon thyme, and parsley ; bind with a beaten egg. If quite fresh, the liver may be minced raw. FORCEMEAT BALLS May be made of pounded veal or mutton, minced beef