APPENDIX—No. II. 468 TO STEW OYSTERS WITH A BROWN SAUCE. Beard the oysters, strain the liquor, and add it to some rich brown gravy, thickened with browned flour and a little butter, and about half a pint of white wine; boil it, and put in the oys- ters, and stew them gently for fifteen or twenty minutes, and just before serving, add a little lemon juice or vinegar. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE LOBSTER SALAD. Boil four eggs hard ; when cold, carefully take off the whites. Bruise the yolks with two tea-spoonfuls of mustard, the same quantity of salt, half a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a little cayenne; when well mixed, add of common vinegar and of lemon pickle, in the proportion of four tea-spoonfuls of the former, to one of the latter, so as to reduce the mixture to a soft pulp — and then put half a pint of cream with the soft part, and the spawn of the lobster ; mixing all well together. Cut into bits the claws and tail of the lobster, and stir it into the sauce. Cut some lettuce and a few radishes rather small, and mince one onion. Serve with the salad placed upon the dressed lobster; and garnish with the whites of the eggs. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW BEEF STEAKS. Cut the steaks off a rump of beef, from one to six inches thick — cut some fat bacon into long strips ; dip them in garlic vinegar, and then roll them in the folloAving mixture:—equal proportions of pounded mace, pepper, nutmeg, and double the quantity of salt. Lard the steaks very thickly and evenly. Put them into a pot just large enough to hold them, with a gill of vinegar, two large onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, half a pint of Port wine, and the peel of a lemon. Cover the pot very closely, and put a wet cloth round the edge of the cover to pre- vent the steam evaporating. Let them stew gently over a slow fire, and when half done, turn the steaks. They will take nearly five hours to stew. Truffles and morels may be added. POTTED HEAD. Wash very clean half a head, and let it lie in cold water for several hours, changing the water two or three times. Put it into a stew-pan, with two well cleaned calf’s feet, three or four onions minced, a bunch of parsley and thyme, some salt, and a little cayenne; put as much water as will cover it, and let it stew for three or four hours. Separate the meat from the bones, mince it, and add more salt and some black pepper; then strain the liquor upon it; stew it gently for half an hour, and put it into moulds.