BEEF. 74 HESSIAN STEW. Cut the root of a tongue into large pieces ; lay it into a deep pan, rub well into it a handful of salt, pour over it some hot water, and stir it round ; when cool enough, scour it well with the hands, and wash it thoroughly in cold water; when perfectly clean, dust it with flour ; fry it of a light brown, with a good quantity of small whole onions ; put it into a digester, with a tea-cupful of strong beer; rinse out the pan with boil- ing water, put it to the meat, with three quarts more of hot water, a head or two of garlic, some sliced carrots and tur- nips ; season with ground black, Jamaica, and cayenne pepper, three cloves, and some salt; let it stew three or four hours. Half an hour before serving, take out the meat and some of the soup for gravy, add more spices, and of mushroom cat- sup, soy, walnut-pickle, and coratch, a table-spoonful each, and three of port wine; boil it all together, thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour, and garnish with sippets of thin toasted bread cut into a three-cornered shape. The soup that is left may be strained', and served clear, or with vege- tables that have been previously boiled. OX TAIL A LA BIATELOTE. Cut an ox tail into pieces, and blanch it in boiling water; put it into fresh water and parboil it; then make a sauce with a spoonful of flour and a bit of butter, moistening it with a little of the liquor in which the tail was boiled ; put into it the pieces of the tail, with a dozen whole onions from which the outer skin has been taken ; add a glass of white wine, a bunch of parsley and cibol, a clove of garlic, a laurel leaf, and some basil and thyme, two cloves, salt, and pepper ; let them stew gently till the meat and onions are done, taking care to skim well. Put into the sauce an anchovy cut, a tea-spoonful of whole capers ; place the pieces of the tail in the middle of the dish, and put the onions round and over them ; garnish with seven or eight bits of fried bread the size of a crown piece, and being ready to serve, pour the strained sauce over it. TO STEW BEEF-STEAKS. Fry the steaks in a little butter; take them out of the pan, and fry in it a minced onion ; return the steaks, with a little boiling water or gravy, some pepper, salt, and a table-spoon- ful of vinegar ; stew them gently for two or three hours; thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour, and serve with or without pickles.