VEAL. 116 tlie crust, and take out the bread carefully, so that the casse- role may not be injured ; next remove some of the rice from the inside, taking care to leave enough to resist the weight of whatever may be put inside of it. Fill it with minced meat, nigout, blanquette, fricassee of chickens, macaroni, or scollops of fish, that have been already served at table ; return it to the oven, and when nicely browned, serve it. CASSOLETTES OF RICE. The rice prepared as above may be put into smaller moulds — those called dariole moulds—.and it should be quite cold before it is turned out, the mince, or whatever is put inside, being also cold; it must be put in carefully, that none of it may mix with the rice, otherwise the ciissolettes would break in the process of frying; for the same reason, the dripping must be very hot. Frying is the best and quickest method of doing them, but they may also be browned in the oven as the casserole of rice. CASSEROLE OF POTATOES. ^ Boil and peel some good mealy potatoes ; pound, and mix with the mash some butter, cream, and a little salt; put it about an inch and a half high upon a flat dish, and leave an opening in the centre ; bake the mash of a light brown colour, and take out as much from the centre as will admit of a ragout, fricassee, or macaroni, being put into it. RISSOLES. Mince very finely some cold roasted veal, and a small bit of bacon ; season it with grated nutmeg and salt, moisten it with cream, and make it up into good-sized balls; dip them into the yolks of eggs beaten up, and then into finely-grated bread. Bake them in an oven, or fry them of a light brown colour in fresh dripping. Before serving, drain them before the fire on the back of a sieve. Garnish with fried parsley. KEBOBBED VEAL. (3ut into thin bits the size of a crown-piece some lean veal; season them with turmeric, pepper, and salt. Slice onions very thinly, and some garlic ; put the slices of veal and onion upon a skewer, together with thin bits of pickled pork. Fry them brown with butter, and garnish with plenty of fried parsley.