VEAL. 114 chovy essence; of mushroom catsup, Harvey sauce, and lemon juice, two table-spoonfuls each ; half a tea-spoonful of cayenne, and two ounces of butter mixed with flour ; a little before serving, add a tea-cupful of Madeira. CALF’S BRAINS WITH FRIED PARSLEY. Blanch three or four brains, of nearly an equal size ; par- boil them, and take off the skin ; then boil them in water, with a little salt, vinegar, and butter. Serve them with a sauce made of a little browned butter, a table-spoonful of vinegar, some salt and pepper, and some parsley fried very green. TO DRESS CALVES’ EARS. Cut the ears of two calves deep at the bottom, and even, so that they may stand; clean and wash them well, and boil tiiem till tender in milk and water; fill them with a nice forcemeat, tie them with thread, and stew them in a little of the liquor they were boiled in ; season it with pepper, salt, mace, and a small onion minced. Before serving, thicken the sauce with the yolk of an egg beaten up in a little cream. BOUDIN A LA REINE. Cut the meat of cold roasted veal, or that of fowls, into dice ; season, and heat it in a veloutee sauce. When cold, form it into rolls the length of the dish ; dip them into beaten eggs, and then into grated bread; repeat this, and let them be completely covered with the grated bread; fry them of a fine brown colour; drain and serve them with fried parsley laid between each. VEAL EM BLANQUETTE. Cut some cold roasted veal into very little bits, without any fat; reduce and clarify two spoonfuls of white cullis, thicken it with the yolks of eggs and a good bit of fresh but- ter ; add a pinch of minced parsley and the squeeze of a lemon; heat the veal in this, and serve it immediately. Blanquettes of fowls may be made in the same way. TO POT VEAL. Cut slices off a leg of veal, and season them with white pepper, pounded mace, cloves, and salt. Lay thin slices of fresh butter between each layer of meat into a potting pan or jar ; cover it closely, and bake it in a quick oven from one to two hours. When it is cold, pound the meat in a marble