PORK. J31 Brown some butter with flour, and add it to a quantity of gravy or water sufficient to stew the feet in. Season with a minced onion, three sage leaves, salt, and black and Jamaica pepper. Cut the feet into two, add them, and cover the pan closely ; let them stew half an hour. A little before serving, mix in half a table-spoonful of lemon pickle or vinegar, and pick out the sage leaves. PETTITOES. Parboil them, with the liver, heart, and lights ; mince the liver, heart, and lights small; simmer it in some gravy or a little of the water, with a bit of butter mixed with flour. Season with pepper, salt, and one or two sage leaves minced ; and having split the feet into two, add them, and when they become tender, mix in a tea-spoonful of vinegar. Serve the mince with the pettitoes upon it, and garnish with sippets of bread PORK CHEESE. Ciioose the head of a small pig which may weigh about twelve pounds the quarter. Sprinkle over it and the tongues of four pigs, a little common salt and a very little saltpetre. Let them lie four days, wash them, and tie them in a clean cloth. Boil them until the bones will come easily out of tiie head; take off the skin as whole as possible, place a bowl in hot water and put in the head, cutting it into small pieces. In the bottom of a round tin, shaped like a small cheese, lay two strips of cloth across each other — they must be long enough to fold over the top when the shape is full; place the skin round the tin, and nearly half fill it with the meat, which has been highly seasoned with black pepper, cayenne, and salt; put in some tongue cut into slices, then the rest of the meat and the remainder of the tongue; draw the cloth tightly across the top, put on it a board or a plate that will fit into the shape, and place on it a heavy weight, which must not be taken off till it be quite cold. It is eaten with vinegar and mustard, and served for luncheon or supper. TO STEW A HAM. Soak the ham in lukewarm water for twelve hours ; drain it, and scrape the rind ; put it into a stew-pan with some slices of fat bacon round the sides, four quarts of weak stock, a good deal of parsley, a bunch of sweet herbs, six large onions, four carrots, a little allspice and black pepper, a pint of Madeira, and one of port wine. Cover the ham with slices