441 KITCHEN GARDEN. the leaves begin to wither. The roots are tied in bunches, and hung in a dry room for use. SHAX.OT. The culture of the shalot is very similar to that of garlic. They are planted about the middle of October, the ground having been previously manured with old well-rotted dung, mixed with house-ashes. The crop is taken up in the end of summer, when the leaves become discoloured, and the biilbs are hung up in nets, in a cool airy place, for use. ARTICHOKE. Artichokes may be planted in any open situation. They are propagated by means of rooted slips, or suckers, taken off at the time of the spring dressing, in the beginning of April. They like a light loam, cool, but dry, and which is at the same time rich and deep. In preparing for this crop, the soil should be trenched to the depth of three feet, and manure should be liberally supplied at the bottom of the trench. The plants may be placed four feet apart every way; and at the end of the first season after planting, a small and late crop of artichokes may generally be cut in October. In the second year they will be plentiful; and in autumn, as soon as all the heads are gathered, the whole stalks are broken down close to the ground. In November, a portion of earth is drawn towards each plant, and some long dung, peas-haum, or the like, is laid around, but kept at some distance from the stems and leaves of the plants. In March or April, the litter and earth are removed, the stocks are ex- amined, and two or three of the strongest and best shoots being selected for growing up, the rest are detached. Every season, at the winter dressing, some small rotted dung or fresh sea-weed should be dug into the ground. It is advisable to renew the artichoke plantation every six years. CARDOON. The best soil for cardoons is one that is light, and not too rich; but it ought to be deep. The seed is sown in the middle or end of May, in small hollows, about three inches deep, and four feet distant from each other every way. Two or three seeds are placed in each hollow to ensure a crop, but only the strongest plant is allowed to remain. The cardoon requires a good deal of water, and in very dry weather, this should be copiously supplied. In September when the leaves will be large, they are tied up with hay or