60 FISH. jars, and pour upon the top a little more clarified butter. Allow to one lobster two ounces of butter in baking. TO POT LOBSTERS, A NORTH AMERICAN RECEIPT- Pick out all the meat, red part, and the spawn, of twenty lobsters, keeping it as entire as possible ; divide the tail pieces into two, and remove the gut. Pound, and mix together, three quarters of an ounce of mace, one small nutmeg, four or five cloves, one ounce of pepper, and two of salt; sprinkle this over the lobster, put it into a jar, or potting-pan, with a layer of butter, then one of fish, till the jar is full; tie a paper over it, and bake it gently till hot through. Take out the lobster, and drain it upon the bottom of sieves ; with a spoon, lay the pieces again into the jar, and pour upon the top a little of the drained butter; place the jar before the fire, or in a pan of hot water, to dissolve the butter. When cold, melt a little white wax, with the remainder of the butter, and pour it upon the top. Tie bladder and paper over the jar. This quantity of lobsters will require four pounds of butter. LOBSTER A LA BRAISE. Pound the meat of a large lobster very fine with two ounces of butter, and season it with grated nutmeg, salt, and white pepper; add a little grated bread, beat up tw'o eggs, reserve part to put over the meat, and with the rest make it up into the form of a lobster. Pound the spawm and red part, and spread it over it; bake it a quarter of an hour, and, just before serving, lay over it the tail and body shell, with the small claw's put underneath to resemble a lobster. TO BUTTER LOBSTERS OR CRABS. Pick all the meat from the bodies of either ; mince it small, put it into a sauce-pan with two or three table-spoonfuls of white wine, one of lemon pickle, and three or four of rich gravy, a bit of butter, some salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; thicken it with the yolks of two eggs beat up, and when quite hot, put it into the largo shells; garnish them with an edging of bread toasted. CUTLETS OF LOBSTER, CRAB, OR OYSTER. Pick out carefully all the meat of a large lobster; mince it, and add it to two ounces of butter, which has been browned with two table-spoonfuls of flour, and seasoned with a little white pepper, salt, and cayenne ; add about half a pint of strong stock ; stir it over the fire till it is quite hot; put it in