386 MISCELLANY. time, and becomes better the longer it is kept. But the first method gives the most lasting polish, as well as the finest colour. ANOTHER WAY TO CLEAN BRASS, COPPER, AND TINS. Mix together finely-pounded rotten-stone, and soft soap, till it is a thick paste. Rub with a bit of rag dipped into the mixture; rub it off with leather, and polish with soft plate leather. When the paste becomes hard, rub it with a bit of wet rag. Keep it bright with dry powdered rotten-stone. FOR SCOURING FLOORS. Dry some fuller’s earth, and with boiling water make it into a thick paste ; mix it with one-third of its quantity of very fine sand, sifted; sprinkle this mixture over the floor, and with a scrubbing-brush and cold water, scrub the boards up and down, but not across, and finish by scrubbing with plenty of cold water. Very fine sand and cold water may be used in general ; and to extract grease, mix some pearl ashes in hot water, and use it with fine sand. Equal proportions of spirits of salt, and of vinegar, mixecf, will extract all stains out of floors. TO WASH STONE STAIRS AND HALLS. Wash them first with hot water and a clean flannel, and then wash them over with pipe-clay mixed in water. When jlry, rub them with a coarse flannel. TO TAKE OIL AND GREASE OUT OF FLOORS AND STONE HALLS* Make a strong infusion of potash with boih'ng water ; add to it as much quick-lime as will make it of the consistence of thick cream ; let it stand a night, then pour off the clear part, which is to be bottled for use. When wanted, warm a little of it; pour it upon the spots, and after it has been on them for a few minutes, scour it off with warm water and soap, as it is apt to discolour the boards when left too long on them. When put upon stone, it is best to let it remain all night; and if the stain be a very bad one, a little powdered hot lime may be put upon it before the infusion is poured on. TO CLEAN FLOOR CLOTHS. Sweep them clean, and wash oflT any dirt}' spots with a •punge and cold water, then rub them with a coarse flannel, and polish with a clean oue.