226 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. and mix in a quarter of a pound of fresh butter ; six ounces of sugar, and the same quantity of nicely-cleaned currants, half a grated nutmeg; add a small glassful of brandy, and bake it in a dish lined with puff paste. It may be served in a napkin. APPLE PUDDING. Pare and core twelve large apples; put them into a sauce- pan, with water sufficient to cover them ; stew them till soft, and then beat them smooth, and mix in three quarters of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, the juice and grated peel of two lemons, and the well- beaten yolks of eight eggs ; line a dish with puff paste, put in the pudding, and bake it for nearly three quarters of an hour. Before serving, grate loaf sugar all over the top till it looks white. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE APPLE PUDDING. Pare and core ten or twelve good-sized apples; stew them with sugar, a bit of cinnamon, and the peel of a lemon, and when (piite soft, mb them through a hair sieve. Beat the yolks of seven, and the whites of five eggs together, with half a pint of sweet cream, and a dessert-spoonful of sifted ground rice; stir it over the fire till it boil, and then mix it well with the apples, and bake the pudding in a dish lined with puff paste. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE APPLE PUDDING. Peel and core six very large apples ; stew them in six table- spoonfuls of water, with the rind of a lemon ; when soft, beat them to a pulp, add six ounces of melted fr sh butter, the same of good brown sugar, six well-beaten eggs, half a wineglass of brandy, and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice; line a dish vvith puff paste, and when baked, stick all over the top thin chips of candied citron and lemon-peel. ORANGE PUDDING. Beat separately, till perfectly light, the yolks of eight, and the whites of four eggs ; boat with the yolks four ounces of grated loaf sugar; pound one ounce and a half of sugar bis- cuit, and with two table-spoonfuls of orange marmalade, mix all well together ; heat before the fire with a horn-spoon four ounces of hotter; line a dish with puff paste, and just before putting the pudding into the oven, stir in the butter. Bake it for fifteen or twenty minutes.