445 KITCHEN GARDEN, Aiiv sort of soil will siiit this plant. In the end of March, should the weather happen to be very dry, the crops must be regularly watered ; a slight covering of fern is useful early in spring, when sharp frosts occur; it may be raked off in the day time, and restored at night. If radishes are to be drawn small, they may stand at two inches apart; but if it be in- tended that the roots should grow large, they must be allowed twice that distance. The turnip-rooted radish is sown in February or March, and thinned out with a small hoe to within six inches apart. INDIAN CRESS, OR NASTURTIUM. A FRESH, but poor soil, is better for this plant than a rich one. The seeds may be sown in April, in drills about two inches deep. The plants must have a support, as the stalks will grow to the height of six or eight feet. The seeds will be ready for use in August or September. There is also a dwarfish variety, which may be allowed to spread on the ground. BURNET. A FEW plants only of this are sufficient. It may be raised from seeds sown in autumn, or by parting the roots. The stems should be two or three times cut over in summer. HORSE.RADISH. The soil for horse-radish should be rich and deep. It is propagated by cuttings of the knotty parts of the root, pro- vided these be furnished with one or two eyes. They are planted in February or March, in lines, leaving a foot and a half between each line. The sets are placed at the depth of at least a foot. The roots are not used till the second year, and then they are raised only as they are wanted. The bed will last for four or five years, care being taken, in digging the roots, to leave the original set, or stock, untouched. PARSX.ET. The curled parsley is the preferable variety. It may be raised in drills on the edge of a border. The seeds, which lie for a month or six weeks in the ground before springing, may be sown in February or early in March. In order to have fresh parsley leaves throughout the winter, some larch or beech branches may be laid over the parsley borders ; and in hard weather, above these are spread dry bean-haum, fern, or reeds.