305 MISCELLANY. TO WASH IIKEZTATZON WAZNSCOT. Wash first with cold water and a clean flannel, and then with sour porter ; after which it is not to be wiped. Or wash with whitening mixed with cold water ; wash off with clean water; dry it well, and then rub hard with linseed oil. TO CZ.EAH PAPERED ROOMS. Blow off the dust with a pair of bellows; cut the upper crust off a stale loaf of bread ; hold the crust in the hand, and rub gently downwards, about half a yard at each stroke. The next time of going round, commence a little above where the last stroke ended, and take care not to cross the paper, or go up again. The process may be repeated ; and, if care- fully done, the paper will look nearly as well as new. TO czje:an pozjshed grates and irons. Make into a paste, with cold water, four pounds of putty- powder, and one of finely-powdered whitening ; dip a duster into the mixture ; rub off carefully all the spots, and with a well-aired clean duster, rub the grate or irons one way till bright and clear. Plain dry whitening will keep it highly polished, if well attended to every day. The putty mixture should be used only to remove spots. To remove rust from the poker, tongs, and shovel, boil one pound of middling-sized emery powder with half a pound of soft soap, till it is as thick as paste; when cold, rub the irons with it; rub it off with a dry cloth, and polish with finely-powdered and sifted brick dust, or whitening. To keep steel grates, fenders, and fire-irons from rusting, rub them over with fresh mutton suet, melted, and then dust them with unslaked lime, tied up in a bit of coarse muslin. TO CZ.EAN BRASS AND COPPER. Rub it over slightly with a bit of flannel dipped in sweet oil; next, rub it hard with another bit dipped in finely- powdered rotten-stone ; then make it clean with a soft bnen cloth, and finish by polishing it with a plate-leather. ANOTHER WAT TO CLEAN BRASS AND COPPER. Put one pennyworth of powdered rotten-stone into a dry clean quart bottle; nearly fill it up with cold soft water ; shake it well, and add one pennyworth of vitriol. Rub it on with a rag, and dry it with a clean soft cloth, and then polish it with a plate-leather. Tlii^ mixture will keep for a lon>^ 2 b