DOMESTIC WINES, &c. 367 burned, or in which a little of the sulphate of potash, or of oxymuriate of potash, has been put. It should be again racked and fined in March, when the wine is completed, and may be bottled, or allowed to remain in the cask. RIPE GOOSEBERRY WXNE May be made by the same rule, excluding carefully from it all the husks. BX.ACK CURRANT WINE. The same variety of proportions are allowed in this as in the others already mentioned. The fruit being picked, it is brought to the boiling point in as much water as to avoid any risk of burning; it may then be strained and put into the cask, or the liquid and skins may, with the other ingredients, be first fermented in the vat or tub, by which the wine will acquire a higher colour and flavour. STRAWBERRIES AND RASPBERRIES. From either of these fruits agreeable wine may be obtained, by following the rules given for making currant wine ; but it will be found a cheaper and a better method, to add a little sirup or juice of the fruit to any flavourless currant wine. When the fermentation begins to decline, currant wine may also be flavoured with odoriferous flowers, such as cowslip, elder, or mignionette. The quality of roughness is communi- cated by catechu and keno, chips of oak and of beech, and also the sloe ; a small quantity of these, or of the flowers, is put into the cask when the first fermentation is over, and as soon as the wine has acquired the desired flavour, it is racked and fined. The flavouring articles, such as orris-root, cloves, ginger, sweet and bitter almonds, are put into a muslin bag, and hung in the cask for a few days, during the stage of in- sensible fermentation, that is, after the first fermentation has ceased, care being taken to taste the liquor frequently, so that the flavouring matter may be withdrawn as soon as it has produced the desired effect. ELDERBERRIES Can be made to produce excellent wine, allowing to a ten- gallon cask forty pounds of fruit, forty pounds of sugar, and a quarter of a pound of tartar. When elderberry wine is de- sired for a warm cordial, it is made in the following manner : Twenty-five pounds of fruit are to be boiled for an hour, in eleven gallons of water, and along with it, tied in a piece of