PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 211 with a paste half an inch thick, made of flour and w'ater, and a small quantity of dripping ; bake it for two hours ; when cold, take off the crust, and cover the dish with a rich puff paste, and bake it nearly an hour. It will keep for some time if the coarse paste be not removed. In this manner most meat pies may be made when required to be kept. SHEEP'S HEAD PIE. Scald and clean nicely a sheep’s head and feet; parboil them, and when cold, cut off all the meat in square bits ; season with pepper, salt, and a little finely-minced onion. Pack the meat closely into a pudding dish or shape, adding some bits of butter; and fill up the dish with some rich highly- seasoned gravy, or with some of the liquor that the head and feet were boiled in. Cover the dish with a coarse paste, and bake the pie for one hour. When cold, and to be served, the paste is taken off, and the pie is cut into slices like potted meat, and garnished with curled parsley. MOORFO-WI. PIE. Pick clean, and wash very nicely, five or six moorfowl; truss them as chickens are done for boiling; season them highly with two or three pounded cloves, some salt, black and Jamaica pepper, all mixed; put into each bird a bit of butter rolled in the spices, lay them closely into a dish, and add half a pint of rich brown stock, and a wine glass of port wine ; cover the dish with puff paste, and bake it one hour. HARE PIE. Cut the hare into small joints; divide the back into five or six pieces, wash it extremely well, and let it lie some time in cold water ; dry, and season it highly with two pounded cloves, some black and Jamaica pepper ; lay it in a dish, with half a pint of brown stock, and two wine glasses of port wine ; cover the dish with puff paste. For a family dinner, and when it is to be eaten hot, the paste may be made of lard or dripping. 6IBLET PIE. Scald tw'o or three sets of goose-giblets, pick and singe them; take the outer skin off the feet, which, with the pinions, cut into two, the neck into three, the gizzard into four, and the liver and heart into two bits ; w'ash them all clean, put them in a sauce-pan, cover them with water, add two onions, a little salt, and a tea-spoonful of whole black pep-