11.5 VEAL. mortar, pack it closely into a jar, and pour clarified butter over it. VEAL CONES. Mince small one pound and a half of cold veal, two ounces of butter, and a slice of lean ham ; pound them in a mortar, and mix, in five table-spoonfuls of cream, two tea- spoonfuls of white pepper, one of salt, and some grated lemon-peel. Make it up into cones about three inches high ; rub them over with an egg beaten up, sift grated bread over them, and fry them of a light brown colour ; put fried bread crumbs into the dish, and place the cones upon them, or serve them with a brown gravy instead of crumbs. Cold fowl, turkey, or rabbit, make good.cones. Half the ingredients will be sufficient for a corner dish. PTRAIVIIDS OF RICE. Boil some whole rice, make it up into the form of pyramids about three inches high, or press it into small tin frames of that shape; take out part of the rice at the bottom, and fill the space with sausage, or rich forcemeat; place them in a dish, take off the frame, and pour round them some rich brown gravy. CASSEROLE OF RICE. Having cleaned and drained about half a pound of rice, moisten it in a stew-pan, with some fat — that which gathers on the top of liquor in which meat has been boiled; strain some broth or soup, add to it a large quantity of grease, some pieces of fat bacon, and a little salt, and mix it with the rice, to make it swell as much as possible; stir it fre- quently over a slow fire to keep it from sticking ; when it is soft, strain it through a cullender, and press it well with a wooden spoon. The mould being selected for the casserole, rinse it with the fat drained from the rice, taking care that every part of the inside of the mould be well greased; then cover it with rice, and place a piece of the crumb of bread in tbe middle, and cover it with rice also ; press it in equally with a spoon, and let it cool. Wlien the rice has become firm, dip the outside of the mould into boiling water ; put a covering of paste made with flour and water ; flatten it all round with a spoon, and make an opening in the top with a knife; then put it into the oven, which cannot be too hot for a casserole, baste it wnth the grease, and when it has become of a fine colour, take it out of the oven, remove