134 PREPARATORY REMARKS. steam draws towards the fire, it is nearly done; it is then dredged with flour, and basted with more butter, served with gravy in the disli, and garnished with sausages, or with force- meat balls (if veal stuffing is used), and bread sauce in a sauce tureen. To boil a Turkey. — After being nicely cleaned, it is trussed with the legs drawn in under the skin, stuffed with a forcemeat, as for veal, adding a few chopped oysters ; then boiled in a well-floured cloth, and served with oyster, white, or celery sauce, poured over it, and also some in a sauce tureen. Boiled ham, tongue, or pickled pork, is eaten with it. A large-sized Turkey will require more than two hours to boil. Turkey, with celery sauce, is stuffed and trussed neatly, laid all over with slices of bacon, tied in a cloth, and boiled in water, with a little salt, butter, and le- mon juice added. It is served thickly covered with celery sauce. Turkey Poults are stuffed and roasted in the same manner as a full-grown Turkey. They will require rather more than an hour to roast. They are dressed with the heads twisted under the wing, as are also Turkeys sometimes, hut it seems an injudicious custom, as the side on which the head is cannot be nicely browned, and in carving, the blood from the neck is apt to mingle with the gravy. To roast a Fowl— It is picked, nicely cleaned, and singed ; the neck is cut off close by the back ; the Fowl is then washed, and, if a large one, stuffed with forcemeat. It is trussed and dredged with flour ; and when put down to roast, basted well with butter, and frothed up. When the steam is observed to draw towards the fire, it is sufficiently done. Serve with gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a butter tureen. A good-sized Fowl will require above an hour to roast. Chickens are roasted as the above, and served with gravy in the dish, which is garnished with fried eggs, and bread sauce in a sauce tureen; they will require from half an hour to three quarters to roast.