1G5 GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. ANOTHER MOCK OYSTER SAUCE. Mix a table-spoonful of flour with two ounces of but- ter, three table-spoonfuls of new milk, six of good gravy, one of anchovy essence, a little nutmeg and pepper ; stir it till it boil. CHESNUT SAUCE, FOR A ROAST TURKEY. Scald a pound of good chesnuts in hot water for five mi- nutes ; skin them, and stew them slowly for two hours in white stock, seasoned and thickened with butter and flour. Cut a pound of pork sausages into bits about an inch long, dust them with flour, and fry them a light brown ; lay them into the dish on which the turkey is to be served, and pour the chesnuts and sauce over them. Some people prefer the fried sausages stewed a little with the chesnuts ; but this method makes the sauce of a darker colour. WHITE SAUCE, FOR FOWLS OR TURKEY. Put on, in a quart of water, the necks of fowls, a piece of the scrag-end of a neck of mutton, two blades of mace, twelve black peppercorns, one anchovy, a small head of celery, a slice from off the end of a lemon, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; cover it closely, and let it boil till reduced to nearly half a pint; strain, and put to it a quarter of a pound of butter dredged with flour; let it boil for five minutes, and then add two spoonfuls of pickled mushrooms. Mix with a tea-cupful of cream, the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and some grated nutmeg; stir this in gradually, and shake the pan over the fire till it is all quite hot, but do not allow it to boil, TO MAKE BECHAMEL, OR WHITE SAUCE. Cut into small pieces half a pound of veal and a quarter of a pound of lean ham ; put it into a sauce-pan, with eight white peppercorns, a shalot, two cloves, two blades of mace, a bay leaf, some parsley, and a quart of veal broth or water. Let it boil till it is strong and well flavoured; strain, and thicken it with a little flour rubbed smooth in cold water. Boil it up, and mix in very slowly a pint, or nearly so, of cream. SAUCE FOR ROAST BEEF. Mix well together a large table-spoonful of finely-grated