192 VEGETABLES. TO STEW niUSHROOnXS. Clean them as for pickling, and, after washing them, put them into a sauce-pan, with an anchovy, two cloves, some nutmeg sliced, mace, whole pepper, and salt; let them stew in their own liquor till tender. In this way they will keep for some time, and when re- quired to be dressed, pick out the spice, and to a dish put two large table-spoonfuls of white wine; add part of their own liquor, and let them just boil; then stir in a bit of butter dredged with flour, and two table-spoonfuls of cream. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW IVIUSHROOIVIS. For a good-sized dish, take a pint of white stock ; season it with salt, pepper, and a little lemon pick'e ; thicken it with a bit of butter rolled in flour; cleanse and peel the mush- rooms, sprinkle them with a very little salt, boil them for three or four minutes, put them into the gravy when it is hot, and stew them for fifteen minutes. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW MUSHROOMS. Peel off the skin, and cut away the stalks ; brown a little butter and flour, then add some gravy seasoned with pepper and salt ; put in the mushrooms, and let them stew very gently for three quarters of an hour. If required to be done with a white sauce, follow the same method as with the onions, and when dished, serve them with sippets of bread. TO STEW ONIONS. Take a dozen of good-sized onions ; peel, and put them on in the following sauce:— A pint of veal stock, a bit of butter rolled in flour, a little white pepper, and salt. Stew them gently for an hour, and, just before serving, mix in three i table-spoonfuls of cream. To stew them in a brown sauce, i take the same quantity of good gravy. In a stew-pan, brown | — of a light colour—a little butter and flour ; add the gravy | and onions, with a little pepper and salt, and stew them gently one hour. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW ONIONS. Peel five or six large onions ; put them into a Dutch oven or cheese-toaster to roast, turn them frequently, and when they are well browned, put them into a sauce-pan, with a bone of dressed or undressed meat, a slice of bacon, a little water, and some pepper. Cover the pan closely, and stew