153 PREPARATORY REMARKS. Hares are kept from a week to a fortnight for roasting; but for soup, they cannot have been too recently killed. Rabbits are chosen by the same rules as Hares. Wild Fowl, in general, is chosen by the same rules as tame Poultry. The birds should be plump and fat, and hard in the vent. If the skin comes off when rubbed hard with the finger, they are stale. Old birds improve by keeping for some time; young birds are best if dressed soon ; and small birds, of all descriptions, should be immediately dressed. In warm weather, a stopper of charcoal should be put into the vent of all Game, and a string tied tightly round the neck. To roast Pheasants and Partridges, they are picked, clean- ed, and nicely singed; a slit is made in the back part of the neck, and the craw taken out, leaving on the head, the feet twisted closely to the body, the claws cut off, and the head turned under the wing. Both sorts are roasted by the di- rections for roasting a turkey or a fowl. A Pheasant is served with gravy in the dish ; Partridges, with a gravy, fried bread crumbs, or laid upon buttered toast, and melted butter poured round them. Bread sauce is served with both. A Pheasant will require nearly an hour to roast ; Partridges half an hour. Guinea and Pea-fowl are roasted in the same way as Pheasants. To roast Black-Cock, follow the directions for roasting Pheasants and Partridges; it will require an hour, and is served with gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a sauce tureen, or laid upon buttered toast, and melted butter poured round it. Moorfowl are roasted in the same manner, and require three quarters of an hour. They may be served upon but- tered toast, or with gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a sauce tureen. It improves Moorfowl and Partridges to put a bit of butter into them, when trussing them for roasting ; and sometimes a bit of fresh undressed beef is substituted for the butter, which is taken out before serving. To restore tainted Game or Poultry, pick it carefully, clean and wash it, then put into each bird a little newly-made