PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 205 pudding, and boil it in a buttered and floured cloth for three or four hours. Serve it with a sweet sauce. SUET P/^TE. Rub well with half a pound of fresh beef suet, chopped as finely as possible, three quarters of a pound of flour, and half a tea-spoonful of salt; make it into a stiff paste with cold water ; work it well, beat it with the rolling-pin, and roll it out two or three times. This paste answers for any kind of boiled fruit pudding. ANOTHER SUET PASTE. Cut small three quarters of a pound of fresh beef suet; pound it very finely in a mortar with a little lukewarm milk, carefully picking out all the strings ; make it up into a roll, and rub it into a pound and a half of flour; moisten it with milk, and roll it out three or four times. PASTE FOR FAMILY PIES. Rub into one pound and a half of flour, half a pound of butter; wet it with cold water sufficient to make it into a stiff paste; work it well, and roll it out two or three times. BEEF DRIPPING PASTE. Rub into one pound of flour, half a pound of clarified beef dripping, till it all look like flour ; work it to a stiff paste with cold water, and roll it out two or three times. This paste answers very well for common pies, but must be used when hot and fresh baked. RAISED CRUST. Melt, in one pint of water, one pound of fresh lard ; weigh four pounds of flour, put it into a basin, and when the water and lard is hot, with a horn spoon stir it by degrees amongst the flour. When well mixed, work it with the hands till it is a stiff’paste, when it is fit for use. ANOTHER RAISED CRUST. Put into a sauce-pan one pint and a half of w’ater, four pounds of flour, and four ounces and a half of butter ; stir it till it is a thick paste; take it out, and add the yolks of three or four beaten eggs ; work it well together ; roll it out rather more than half an inch thick; cut out the top and bottom, and a long piece of a proper depth for the sides. Brush round the bottom with well-beaten whites of eggs; set