DOMESTIC WINES, &c. 369 pounds of sugar, and a quarter of a pound of tartar, are now to be added to the mixed liquor, and the quantity being made up to seven gallons, the process recommended in the case of gooseberries is to be followed ; or that for ripe currants, if a sweet wine is desired. RAZSIN WINE. To every gallon of water, eight pounds of good raisins, and half an ounce of tartar, are allowed ; the raisins being picked, they are to be put, together with the tartar, into a tub, which should be covered; the mash must be stirred every day till the sweetness has gone olF, and the fruit has fallen a little, which may be in a month or six weeks; it is then to be strained, the raisins pressed to dryness, and the liquid put into the cask ; no filling up is necessary, and the bung-hole is only to be so covered as to keep out the dust. When the wine has given over hissing, it is to be bunged down till the spring, when it is to be carefully fined and racked into a sul- phured cask, and bottled, after being once more carefully fined. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE RAISZN WINE. For a ten-gallon cask, fifty pounds of Malaga, and twenty- five of Smyrna raisins, ten pounds of loaf sugar, and a quarter of a pound of crude tartar, are allowed. The raisins being separated from each other, and the strong stalks picked out, they are to be put, together with the other ingredients, into a vat, and thirteen gallons of cold spring water are to be poured over them ; the whole is then to be well stirred, and the vat covered; it must be stirred twice a-day during the first fortnight, and afterwards once a-day. When the fer- mentation has become very strong, and the liquor acquires a vinous smell and taste, which may be in three or four weeks, it is to be prepared for the cask in the following manner : — A sieve or a drainer, such as is used for sowens in Scotland, is to be put over a tub ; in this the raisins are to be squeezed very hard with the hand; all tlie liquor is then to be run through a hair-sieve, and put into the cask, and the re- mainder into bottles, from which the cask must be filled up twice a-day for a week; then once a-day, and less frequently as the fermentation begins to decline ; when it is completed, the cask is to be bunged up, and allowed to stand for four months. Excellent vinegar may be made from the refuse. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE RAISIN WINE. To twenty-eight gallons of water, one hundred and twelve 2a