125 PORK. When hams which have been hung up are not keeping well, they must be returned to their pickle, and allowed to remain till required for use. HAM WITH IVIADEIRA. Soak in water for two hours a Bayonne or any other fine ham ; boil it for two hours, trim it quickly, and then put it into a stew-pan, with thin slices of veal at the bottom ; add some carrots and parsley, and season with spices. Pour over the ham a pint of rich stock and a bottle of Madeira ; let it boil for two hours, strain and skim the fat off the sauce, which, with the ham, must be served quite hot. TO BOIli A HAM. When the ham is not to be soaked, wash it well in warm water, and scrub it clean; pare off any rusty part, and trim it neatly. Put it on in a large pot, with plenty of lukewarm water, and let it simmer for four or five hours. Take off the skin as whole as possible; sift over the ham bread raspings and a very little pounded sugar, and set it before the fire for tw'o or three minutes, and put a fringe of white paper round the knuckle. The skin may be laid over the ham, when cold, to keep it moist. TO COLXcAR A PIG'S CHEEK. Strew over a pig’s face, and a neat’s or pig’s tongue, a little salt and saltpetre ; let it stand eight or nine days, then boil them with two cow-heels, till all be sufficiently tender to admit of the bones being taken out; lay upon a dish a piece of strong cloth, put the cheek upon it with the rind downwards ; season it highly with black and Jamaica pepper, cloves, and a little salt; add the tongue and cow-heels, with more seasoning; roll and sew it up firmly, put it into a jar and boil it for two hours, then press it with a heavy weight, and when cold take off the cloth. The cow-heel may be omitted, and both cheeks used. TO POT PIG'S HEAD. Split the head of a small pig, take out the brains, cut off the ears, and let it lie in cold water for one day; then boil it till all the bones come out; take off the skin, keeping it a.s whole as possible. Chop the tongue and all the meat while it is hot; season it highly with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; place part of the skin at the bottom of a potting-pan or bowl, lay in the chopped meat, and put the rest of the skin over