CREAMS, CUSTARDS, Ac, ■280 JELLY. To a quart of the stock jelly put half a pound of loaf sugar pounded, a stick or two of cinnamon broken into small bits, the peel of a lemon, a pint of currant wine, and one of sherry or teneriffe, and the beaten whites of five eggs; put it all into a nicely-cleaned sauce-pan, stir it gently till it boils, and boil it for three or four minutes. Pour it into a jelly-bag, with a basin or mng placed underneath ; run it immediately through the bag again into another basin, and repeat this till it begins to drop. It will then be as trarrsparent as possible, and may be put into moulds or glasses. When all has ap- parently dripped, pour about a pint of boiling water into the bag, which will produce a little thin jelly fit to drink. The stand with the jelly-bag should be placed near to the fire : sherry alone, or teneriffe, may be used. The jelly may be put into quart bottles, corked tightly, which will make it keep good for some weeks; place the bottle in warm water when it is required for use. FRESH CALF'S-FEET STOCK. Scald, take off the hair, and wash very clean four feet ; put them into a sauce-pan with two quarts of cold water, and when it comes to a boil, let them simmer for six or seven hours; take out the feet, and strain the liquor into a deep dish. The following day remove the fat carefully from the top, and give it another boil, which will reduce it to one quart of stiff stock or jelly. ALE OR PORTER JELLY. For a large shape, put to the prepared stock or jelly more than half a bottle of strong ale or porter, a pound of loaf sugar, the peel of one, and the juice of four large lemons, a stick of cinnamon, and the beaten whites of eight eggs ; put it all into a sauce-pan, stir it gently; let it boil for fifteen minutes, and pour it into a jelly-bag till it runs perfectly clear. OX-FEET JELLY. Put a little hot water over the top of the stock, pour it off, and wipe it dry with a clean cloth ; put a quart of it into a sauce-pan with the beaten whites of five or six eggs, the juice of five lemons made very sweet with good brown sugar, a clove or two, and a little cinnamon pounded; let it boil twenty minutes, stirring it all the time ; take it off the fire, and add a pint, or half a pint of white wine, and run it through a je'ly-bag till clear.