352 PICKLES. and put them into wide-mouthed bottles or stone jars , have ready vinegar boiled up with bruised nutmeg half an ounce, of ginger, black peppercorns, and whole allspice, one ounce each to a quart; pour it upon the gherkins while hot; cover them till cold, and tie them down with bladders. French beans done in this way are beautiful, and answer well pickled with the gherkins, and kept together. Nasturtium buds or imitation capers may be done after this receipt. There is no method adopted which produces so fine a green in pickles, as the use of a brass pan ; but where it is objected to, they may be done by the following receipts. GHERKINS. Make a pickle of salt and water strong enough to bear an egg, carefully skimming it while boiling; when cold, put in gherkins or French beans, or whatever is to be pickled, and let them stand at the side of the fire for three days; pour off the brine, wipe them dry, and put them into a stone jar. In another stone jar, boil, upon a hot plate, or in a water bath, as much strong vinegar as will cover the pickles ; pour it over them, and cover them with fresh-gathered vine or cabbage leaves ; place a cloth or plate over the jar, and let it stand by the side of the fire. Next day pour off the vinegar, boil it as before, and pour it over the pickles, and cover them with fresh leaves ; and if they are not a good green colour, repeat the same process a third time. Then put them into wide-mouthed glass bottles, or into strong stoneware jars; boil vinegar, together with spices, in the following proportions : — Bruised nutmeg half an ounce, black peppercorns, whole allspice, and ginger, one ounce each to a quart; pour it hot over the pickles, cover them, and when cold, close the bottles or jars with a bung, and tie over them bladder or leather. CUCUIVIBER IVIANGOES. Cut a long narrow piece out of the sides of large Turkey cucumbers, scoop out the seeds, and with a part of them mix some mustard seed, shred garlic, and grated horse-raddish; stuff the space as full as it will admit of, and replace the piece which was cut off; bind them with a thread; put over them hot vinegar three successive days, and boil with it the last time black pepper, flour of mustard, and some salt; put them into jars, and pour over them the boiling vinegar, and when cold, cover them closely.