215 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. not peel them ; cut thick slices of cold fat bacon, and any sort of cold roasted meat, season them with pounded ginger, pepper, and salt; put into the dish a layer of each, and pour over the top a large cupful of ale; cover the dish with a paste made with dripping or lard. SEA PIE. Skin and cut a large fowl into joints ; wash and lay it into cold water for an hour; cut some salt beef into thin slices, and if it is very salt, soak it a short time in water; make a paste of flour and butter in the proportion of half a pound of butter to one of flour ; cut it out into round pieces according to the size of the bottom of the pot in which the pie is to be stewed ; rub the bottom of a round iron pot with butter, and lay in a layer of the beef, seasoned with pepper, and finely- minced onion; then put a layer of the paste, and then the fowl, highly seasoned with pepper, onion, and a little salt; add another layer of paste, and pour in three pints of cold water; cover the pot closely, and let it stew gently for nearly four hours, taking care it does not burn, which, if neglected, it is apt to do. It is served in a pudding dish, and answers well for a family dinner. BEEF-STEAK PUDDING. Make a paste with suet or butter ; roll it out large enough to line a quart basin ; cut thin slices of tender beef, free from skin and sinews, beat them with a rolling-pin, season them with pepper, salt, and a very little finely-minced onion ; roll up each steak ; rub the basin with butter, lay in the paste, and put in the steaks, wet the edges of the paste, and fold it over closely; dip into hot water a pudding-cloth, wring, shake, and dust it with flour, tie it over the rim of the basin, put it on in boiling water, and boil it for three hours. RABBIT PUDDING. Wash a rabbit in several waters; cut off the head, and cut the rest into small pieces ; make a nice suet paste, allowing a quarter of a pound of fresh beef or veal suet, finely minced, to one pound of flour ; season the rabbit with pepper, salt, and a little mushroom powder, put it all except the head into the paste, with a little flour and water ; boil it in a cloth for two hours and a half; serve it with gravy in a sauce-tureen. One or two thin slices of pickled pork may be added. A young hare may be made into a pudding in the same