BREWING. 427 MANGEL-WURZEL BEER. For a ten-gallon cask, boil in fourteen gallons of water sixty pounds of mangel-wurzel, which has been well washed and sliced across, putting some kind of weight on the roots to keep them under water ; having boiled an hour and a half, they may be taken out, well broken, and all the liquor pressed from the roots ; put it, and that in which they were boiled, on again to boil, with four ounces of hops ; let them boil about an hour and a half, then cool the liquor, as quick- ly as possible, to 70“ Fahrenheit; strain it through a thick cloth laid over a sieve or drainer ; put it into the vat with about six ounces of good yeast, stir it well, cover it, and let it stand twenty-four hours; if the yeast has then well risen, skim it off, and barrel the beer, keeping back the thick sedi- ment. While the fermentation goes on in the cask, it may be filled up with the beer left over, or any other kind at hand ; when the fermentation ceases, which may be in two or three days, the cask must be bunged up, and in a few days more, the beer may be used from the cask, or bottled. These small proportions are here given to suit the con- venience of the humblest labourer; but the beer will be better made in larger quantities; and its strength may be increased by adding a greater proportion of mangel-wurzel. By this receipt, good keeping table-beer will be obtained. ANOTHER CHEAP BEER. For a ten-gallon cask allow three ounces hops, ten pounds bran, two ounces bruised ginger, four pounds treacle, four ounces good yeast. Boil the hops and ginger in fifteen gal- lons of water for an hour and a quarter, add the bran, and boil twenty minutes longer; strain the liquor on the treacle; stir the mixture well, and let it stand till it becomes milk- warm, or from 60“ to 70“ Fahrenheit; then strain it through a thick cloth laid over a riddle or sieve; add four or five ounces of yeast, stir it well, and when cold, put it into the cask; keep filling up the cask till it has done working, which may be in two days. It must then be bunged up, and will be fit for drinking in two days. It will keep good in the cask for ten days or a fortnight — or it may be bottled. This beer will not be so strong nor so cheap as the mangel- wurzel beer ; but being scarcely more than one halfpenny per bottle, and as good as the brewer’s harvest beer, it may be found well worthy the attention of the farmer at a season when mangel-wurzel cannot be procured. The yeast which it affords will be found excellent for baking.