KITCHEN GARDEN. 435 between the plants. The only attention the crop requires is hoeing, and drawing the earth to the stems. The oftener this last operation is performed, the greater will be the pro- duce. The early planted potatoes will be fit for use in June and July. Only a few of them should be taken up at a time, as they will not keep good beyond a day or two. In autumn the principal crop will be known to be ripe, when the tops of the plants change to a yellow colour; they should then be taken up, and stored in as clean and dry a state as possible. The best way of keeping them is in heaps on the ground, covering well with straw and earth, so as completely to ex- clude the frost. PSAS. If peas be sown in newly-enriched ground, they will be apt to run to haums ; they are therefore seldom sown till the second year after manuring. Some of the early kinds, as the Charleton, golden, and Reading, are generally sown towards the end of October, in front of a south wall; and if slightly protected by means of branches of evergreens, or old peas- haum, the crop will survive the winter, and produce young peas by the end of May. In January and February, more of the early sorts are sown for a succession; and in March and April, full crops of the later peas must be sown. Some of the smaller late kinds, as the blue Prussian, dwarf mar- rowfat, Spanish dwarf, and Leadman’s dwarf, if well earthed up, and the rows not too near each other, may do without sticking. Of the large and late kinds, the tall marrowfat, green marrowfat, grey rounceval, and the sugar pea, have long retained their character. The large kinds require nearly" four feet distance between the rows. The young plants are frequently hoed; when they are three or four inches high, the earth is drawn to the rows; and when about eight or ten inches high, they must be sticked; the smallest kinds may have sticks three feet, the early sorts and dwarf mar- rowfat five feet, and the larger sorts seven or eight feet high. When branches for sticking cannot be procured, two lines of strong packthread, on each side of the rows, may be substi- tuted. To prevent the attacks of mice, it is necessary to he careful, in sowing peas, that none be left exposed on the surface of the ground. BEANS. The early sorts, such as the Mazagon and Lisbon, are sown in the end of October, in front of a wall or hedge.