VEAL. 109 may be well skimmed; strain it, put it into another sauce- pan, and reduce it on the fire till almost wasted ; put in the veal, and glaze it, and when the larded side is well glazed, put it on the dish in which it is to be served. Add a little cullis to what is in the sauce-pan, and a very little stock, to detach it from the pan; put it in the dish with the fricandeau, and under it a sorrel sauce, made as follows : — Put into a sauce-pan some sorrel, lettuce, chervil, parsley, cibol, and purslain, all well washed, minced, and pressed, with a good bit of butter; do it on a brisk fire, till no water remains ; put in a pinch of flour moistened with cullis and gravy, adding pepper and salt, and stew it till done enough. All fricandeaux may be done in the same way. VEAX. CAKE, TO BE EATEN COLD. Pound, in a mortar, as much cold roasted lean veal as will fill a small mould, together with a slice of ham, or bacon, a piece of the crumb of bread soaked in cold milk, two beaten eggs, a small bit of butter, the same of shalot, or onion ; sea- son with pepper and salt, and mix all well together ; butter the mould, fill it, and bake it in an oven for about an hour; tnrn it out when cold, and cut it into slices. Garnish with pickled eggs and parsley. MINCED FOWL, WITH VEAL. Mince the white part of a cold roasted or boiled fowl; put it, and some thin slices of veal, into a sauce-pan, also some white stock, a squeeze of a lemon, a few drops of shalot vinegar, and a dust of sugar; simmer it for a short time, and serve it upon bread sippets, with the slices of veal laid on the mince. POTTED CALF'S FEET Boil the feet as for jelly; pick all the meat from the bones, add to it half a pint of gravy, a little salt, pepper, and nut- garlic, a shalot, and some shred ham; simmer it for half an hour, dip a mould into water, put in a layer of the meat, then some neatly-cut pickled beet-root, and some boiled minced parsley, then a layer of meat, and so on, till the mould be filled; when cold, turn it out. Garnish with pickled eggs, beet-root, and parsley. CALF’S FEET PLAIN. Scald, clean, and blanch some calves’ feet; boil them till the bones will come out, then stew them in a blanch. See