80 BEEF TO BOIIi MARROW BONES. Saw them even at the bottom; butter and flour some bits of linen, and tie a piece over the top of each bone; boil them for an hour or two, take off the linen, and serve them with thin slices of dry toast cut into square bits. At table, the marrow should be put upon the toast, and a little pepper and salt sprinkled over it. MOCK HARE. Cut the lean meat from the inside of a sirloin of beef; soak it eight-and-forty hours in a tea-cupful of port wine and a glass of vinegar ; cut it open, lard it, and make a stuffing as for hare, using the raw liver of a fovvl; lay it on the meat, roll and tie it tightly, and roast it by a hanging jack. Baste it with the liquor in which it was soaked, adding a little more port wine and vinegar, and mixing with it nearly a tea-spoon- ful of pounded allspice. Serve it with some good gravy in the dish, and currant jelly in a sauce-tureen. A FILLET OF BEEF. Bone a middle rib of beef weighing about fifteen pounds; roll the meat tightly and firmly, and skewer it. Roast and garnish it in the same manner as a sirloin. BURGESS'S METHOD OF BOILING HUNG BEEF. Hung beef for grating should be put on in boiling water, and, to preserve the colour, kept boiling as fast as possible. Allow for six pounds of beef one hour and a half. It will keep good for a length of time. SCARLET BEEF. Mix a little mace, cloves, allspice, black pepper, and salt- petre together; rub it well into two pounds of tender lean beef; let it lie six days, turning it daily, and rubbing it with the pickle; then roll and tie it firmly with tape ; put it and the pickle into a small jar, with a slice or two of beef-suet under and over it; tie it closely, and bake it an hour. It is eaten cold, cut in thin slices, and garnished with parsley. If long kept, the colour fades. SPRING-GARDEN BEEF. Cut a piece of lean tender beef into thick slices; lard and season them with pepper, salt, and sweet herbs ; pour over them a little port wine, and stew them in weak stock, with