250 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. is taken off the fire, put in a bit of fresh butter the size of a walnut. Serve it with red currant jelly upon the top of it. CALF'S-FEET PUDDING. Pick all the meat off three well-boiled calf’s feet; chop it finely, as also half a pound of fresh beef suet; grate the crumb of a penny loaf; cut like straws an ounce of orange- peel, and the same of citron; beat well six eggs, and grate a small nutmeg: mix all these ingredients well together, with a glass of brandy or rum, and boil it in a cloth nearly three hours. Serve with a sweet sauce. SUET APPLE PUDDING. Of finely-minced fresh mutton suet, grated apples, flour, and brown sugar, six ounces each; half a grated nutmeg, a tea- spoonful of salt, and four well-beaten eggs, all well mixed to- gether ; boiled for two hours ; and served with a sweet sauce. FRUIT SUET PUDDING. Of finely-minced suet, flour, grated bread, and cleaned cur- rants, a quarter of a pound each ; a tea-spoonful of pounded ginger, one of salt, two ounces of brown sugar, and a tea- cupful of milk; mix all the ingredients well together, and boil it in a cloth for two hours. Serve with a sweet sauce. REGENT'S PUDDING. Rub an earthenw'are mould with butter, and cover the bot- tom with bloom raisins stoned; cut thin slices of the crumb of bread ; butter, and lay one or two over the raisins ; upon that put a layer of ratafia cakes, then one of bread and butter, and raisins; do this till the mould is nearly full, and pour over it the following mixture : — A pint of cream, well- sweetened with pounded loaf sugar, and mixed with four well-beaten yolks of eggs, a glass of brandy, and two table- spoonfuls of rose water ; let it soak one or two hours ; put over the top a piece of writing paper buttered, and tie over it a cloth. Boil it for one hour and a half, and serve it with wine sauce. STIRRED-IN GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. Rub into six ounces of flour a quarter of a pound of finely- minced mutton suet; put it into a basin with half a tea- spoonful of salt, four or five table-spoonfuls of brown sugar, two well-beaten eggs, and a gill of milk ; stir in a pint, or a pint and a half, of gooseberries ; butter a basin, that will