POULTRY. 138 crumbs, three or four of the livers, one anchovy, some parsley minced, and a quarter of a pound of butter ; season it with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, bind it with the yolk of an egg beaten up, and put into each pigeon a piece the size of a large walnut; tie the neck and rump, rub them with butter, and dust them with pepper, salt, and nutmeg mixed; broil them over a slow fire ; to baste them, put them upon a plate, and with a feather brush them over with butter; broil them of a nice brown colour; serve them with melted butter and parsley, or a thickened brown gravy. TO STEW PIGEONS. Truss six pigeons neatly, and season them within with pepper, nutmeg, and cloves ; fry them in butter, then put them into a stew-pan with a quart of good gravy and a little cider ; stew them till tender. A little before serving, add a glass of white wine, and thicken the gravy with butter rolled in flour. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW PIGEONS. Clean them nicely, truss them as for boiling, put into their inside some pepper and salt; brown in a sauce-pan three ounces of butter with a table-spoonful of flour, add as much gravy or water as will nearly cover the pigeons, put them in with the livers, gizzards, and pinions, salt, and some minced parsley, spinach may also be added; let them stew for three quarters of an hour ; add, a few minutes before serving, the yolks of four or six hard-boiled eggs. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW PIGEONS. Wash and clean six pigeons, cut them into quarters, and put all their giblets with them into a stew-pan, a piece of butter, a little water, a bit of lemon-peel, two blades of mace, some chopped parsley, salt, and pepper; cover the pan closely, and stew them till they be tender; thicken the sauce with the yolk of an egg beaten up with three table-spoonfuls of cream, and a bit of butter dusted with flour ; let them stew ten minutes longer before serving. FOWL A LA CONDE. Draw the sinews of the legs of two fine white fowls, and take out the breast bones; truss them, and put into each a little lemon juice, and salt, mixed with a piece of butter; place them in a stew-pan, and cover them with thin slices of fat bacon ; pour over them the following sauce :— Cut into dice