POULTRY. 40i CHAPTER XX. POULTRY. MANAGEMENT OF POULTRY. Warm, dry, and shingly soil, like the sea beach, is best adapted for the rearing of Poultry ; and such may be artifi- cially formed, where it is not afforded by nature. A yard or court being pitched upon, the foundation should be laid with chalk or bricklayers’ rubbish, the surface to consist of sandy gravel; and considerable spots of it may be sown with com- mon trefoil or wild clover, with a mixture of burnet, spurry, or star-grass, which last species is particularly salubrious to poultry. The surface must be sloped and drained, so as to avoid all stagnant moisture, and the whole enclosed with a fence, lofty, and so secured at the bottom that the smallest chicken may not find a passage through. The poultry houses within the court should have a southern aspect, and if the n jmber of the stock be large, the houses had far better be small and detached; and should they abut upon a stable, brew-house, or any conductor of warmth, it will be a farther advantage. The floors should consist of well- rammed chalk or earth, so that they may be easily swept clean. In the roof, which must be lofty, there should be only one long and level range of perches; and if in the wall steps be so placed that the poultry may jump from the one to the other, the ascent will be rendered easy to the perches, and also to the nests, for which boxes are the most convenient, when properly constructed. A few railed doors may be pro- vided, to hang before the entrance of those in which hens are sitting. Nests for breeders are generally preferred upon the ground, on account of the danger of chickens falling from those which are placed above. In making the nest, soft and short straw should be chosen. Various beds, or heaps, of sifted ashes or very dry sand, should be placed in the yard, in which the fowls may have the comfort and benefit of roll- ing and bathing themselves; and a place of refuge should be provided for such hens or chickens as the cock has taken a dislike to. 2 c