235 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. rice, a quart of good milk ; stir it over the fire till it boils, and let it boil for three minutes; put it into a Irasin, and when nearly cold, add the well-beaten yolks of six, and the whites of two eggs, with a tea-cupful of sweet wine, or a glass of spirits ; put it into a buttered dish, and bake it for three quarters of an hour, or for one hour, in a Dutch oven, in the same way as the marrow pudding is done. (See below.) .Vny sort of preserve may be put into the bottom of the dish, and a sweet sauce may be served with it. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE GROUND-RICE PUDDING. Mix a quarter of a pound of ground rice with rather more than a pint of milk ; stir it till it boils ; add a quarter of a pound of butter, and when nearly cold, sweeten it, and add the well-beaten yolks of five, and the whites of three eggs, two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, and a little grated nutmeg. Bake it in a Dutch oven ; or it may be boiled half an hour. RICH PUDDING. Put into a sauce-pan four ounces of fresh butter, six oun- ces of pounded loaf sugar, six of marmalade, and six ounces of eggs, well beaten ; stir all one way till it be thoroughly warmed — it must not be allowed to boil. Bake it in a dish lined with puff paste. BUTTER-MILK PUDDING. Turn two quarts of new milk with one of butter-milk ; drain off the whey, and mix with the curd the grated crumb of a twopenny roll, the grated peel of a lemon, nearly a whole nutmeg grated, half a pint of rich cream, six ounces of cla- rified butter, and the beaten yolks of nine, and the whites of four eggs ; sweeten it well, and bake it, with or without a pufi’ paste, for tliree quarters of an hour. It may be boiled. MARROW PUDDING. Put into a mug the crumb of a twopenny loaf, and pour over it a pint and a half of boiling milk ; cover it closely for an hour ; cut into small bits half a pound of marrow, stone and cut a quarter of a pound of raisins, take the same quantity of nicely-cleaned currants, beat well six eggs, a tea- spoonful of grated lemon-peel, and the same of nutmeg ; mix all thoroughly with the bread and milk, sweeten it well with brown sugar, and bake it, with or without a border of puff paste round the dish, three quarters of an hour. It may be