262 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. cold roasted kidney of veal, finely minced; season with pep- per, and a little more salt; melt in a frying-pan one ounce and a half of butter, and pour in the omelet; fry it gently, and keep the middle part moist; when done, roll it equallv upon a knife, and serve it very hot. OMELETTE A LA FRANCAISE. Strain four well-beaten eggs; season them with a little white pepper, salt, one small onion, and a little parsley finely minced ; add a tea-cupful of cold water. Put into a frying- pan a table-spoonful of butter ; when boiling hot, pour in the omelet, stir it with a fork till it becomes firm ; turn it at each 6nd, so as to make it of a square or oblong form; and serve it hot. MACARONI. Break the macaroni into small bits ; wash it, and sim- mer half a pound in a quart of good veal stock, and when quite tender, add some grated Parmesan cheese, and make it quite hot; put grated cheese into the bottom of a dish, and put over it the boiled macaroni; strew some cheese upon the top, and put small bits of butter here and there; brown it with a salamander, or in an oven. A border of puff paste may be put round the dish, when it is baked, and the cheese ought not to be previously heated with the macaroni. The macaroni may be dressed without the cheese. ANOTHER WAY TO DRESS MACARONI. Simmer the macaroni in milk, and when quite tender, mix with it two ounces of salt butter ; put grated cheese into the bottom of the dish, and then a layer of macaroni; begin and end with the cheese, and over the top strew sifted bread ; put on it small bits of butter, and brown it in a Dutch oven, or with a salamander. ANOTHER WAY TO DRESS MACARONI. Simmer the macaroni with a little salt, gravy, and water, half and half; when tender, strain, and put it into a sauce- pan with a quarter of a pound of butter, a finely-minced onion, and a tea-cupful of cream ; grate half a pound of cheese, and heat the half of it with the macaroni; dish it, and strew over the top the remainder of the cheese ; brown it with a salamander.