PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 252 This, and the preceding preparations of oatmeal, may be found useful for children, and an acceptable variety to those for whom a low diet is prescribed. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. Butter a mould ; lay into the bottom thin-cut bread and butter, with the crust pared off; strew' over it a layer of cur- rants and stoned raisins, mixed; half fill the shape, and add half a pint of brandy or rum — or currant w ine may be used ; in an hour, pour over it a quart of good milk, mixed with six well-beaten eggs, half a nutmeg grated, and some brown sugar; boil it for one hour and a half, and serve it with melted butter, currant wine, and sugar. YORKSHIRE PUDDING. Mix, with five table-spoonfuls of flour, a tea-spoonful of salt, one pint of good milk, and three well-beaten eggs; butter a square tin pan, put in the batter, and set the tin upon a gridiron for a few minutes, and then place it under beef that is roasting. Serve it cut into small oblong pieces. NEW COLLEGE PUDDINGS. Half a pound of fresh beef suet, finely minced, the same of currants, a quarter of a pound of grated bread, and of pounded sweet biscuit, half a tea-spoonful of salt, a small nutmeg grated, an ounce of candied orange-peel minced; mix all together with two or three well-beaten eggs, and fry them in butter till of alight brown ; shake the pan, and turn them frequently till done enough. Serve wdth pounded loaf sugar strewed thickly over them. CROQUETTTES DE POMIVIES DE TERRE- When boiled and peeled, allow four large mealy potatoes, half their weight of butter, and of pounded loaf sugar, two eggs beaten, half the grated peel of a lemon, and a little salt; pound the potatoes in a mortar with the other ingredients ; beat the yolks of four eggs; roll up the croquettes ; dip them into the beaten eggs, and roll them in sifted bread crumbs; in an hour, roll them again as before, and fry them in butter; put them upon the back of a sieve before the fire to drain. COTTAGE PUDDINGS. Six ounces of currants, half a pound of minced suet, and the same quantity of grated bread, half a grated nutmeg, a table-spoonful of white wine, or rose water; mix all well to-