70 BEEF. ANOTHER WAY TO STEW BEEF Pound and mix together two ounces of Jamaica pepper, half an ounce of black pepper, and a little ginger, and half a pound of bay salt; rub it well into a round or rump of beef weighing fourteen or sixteen pounds ; let it lie five or six days, turning it daily. Put a flat plate at the bottom of a sauce-pan, put in the beef, cover it with water, and let it stew for five hours, keeping the pan perfectly close. If the water wastes, add more, boiling hot. Before serving, take out about a quart of the gravy, skim, and add to it some grated nutmeg and pepper, and some cut pickles; heat and pour it over the beef. Garnish with cut pickles. HUNTING BEEF. Hub well into around of beef weighing about forty pounds, three ounces of saltpetre; let it stand five or six hours ; pound three ounces of allspice, one of black pepper, and mix them with two pounds of salt and seven ounces of brown .sugar. Rub the beef all over with the salt and spices, let it remain fourteen days, and every other day turn and rub it with the pickle ; then wash off the spices, and put it into a deep pan. Cut small nearly six pounds of beef-suet; put some into the bottom of the pan, but the greater part upon the top of the beef. Cover it with a coarse paste, and bake it eight hours. When cold, take off the crust, and pour off the gravy. It will keep good for three months. Preserve the gravy, as a little of it improves the flavour of hashes, soups, or any made dishes. BEEF A X.A BRAISE. Bone a rump of beef; lard it very thickly with bacon .seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and allspice, and season the beef with pepper and salt; put some slices of bacon into the bottom of the pan, with some whole black pepper, a little allspice, one or two bay leaves, two onions, a clove of garlic, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Put in the beef, and lay over it some slices of bacon, two quarts of weak stock, and half a pint of white wine. Cover it closely, and let it stew between six and seven hours. Sauce for the beef is made of part of the liquor it has been stewed in, strained, and thickened with a little flour and butter, adding some green onions cut small, and pickled mushrooms. It is poured liot over the beel.