392 MISCELLANY. polish, but is the most troublesome; it should be put upon the plate with a piece of flannel, the powder then shaken over it, and rubbed off with a leather, or with the hand, if the article is plain ; for the rough parts, it will be necessary to have brushes of various sizes, hard and soft; a small tooth-brush will be found useful amongst them. The spunge and leather used for washing plate should be soft, ai>d a linen cloth must be used to wipe the plate before it is put upon the table. Plated articles should be cleaned with soft brushes, and not too often, and never with any thing but plate powder, wet with spirits or water, as above directed. To remove wax or grease from plate or candlesticks, pour boiling water on them, and wipe them dry directly with an old cloth. JAPANKED CANDLESTICKS AND TBA-TRATS. To remove grease from candlesticks, just let the water be warm enough to melt it; then wipe them with a cloth, and if they look smeared, sprinkle a little flour upon tliem, and wipe it clean off. Wax candles should not be burned in them, as the wax cannot be taken off without injuring the varnish. TO CLEAN AND TAKE OFF SPOTS UPON BRONZE TEA-URNS. Fill the tea-urn with boiling water; rub the outside aD over with a piece of flannel dipped into strong suds, made with yellow soap. Rub it dry with soft linen cloths. WAX CANDLES. Should they get dirty or yellow, wet them with a piece of flannel dipped in spirits of wine. SHOE-BLACKING. To four ounces of ivory-black, allow three ounces of loaf sugar, one table-spoonful of salad oil, one ounce of oil of vitriol, and one pint of vinegar; dissolve the sugar in a little vinegar, put it on the fire together with the oil, and stir it well; when moderately heated, add the pint of vinegar, and ivory-black ; and, when cold, stir in the vitriol; put it into a quart bottle, shake it well, and fill it up with vinegar. ANOTHER WAT TO PIAKE SHOE-BLACKING. Mix, in one quart of sour porter, the following ingre- dients : — Three ounces of ivory-black, the same quantity of treacle, two table-spoonfuls of sweet oil, and, lastly, one ounce of vitriol; bottle, and shake it well.