CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 300 top. Bake it for an hour. Potato flour may be substituted for wheat flour in this and the other spunge cakes. SCOTS SEED CAKE. Take one pound and a half of dried and sifted flour, the same quantity of fresh butter washed in rose water, and of finely-pounded loaf sugar ; six ounces of blanched sweet almonds, three quarters of a pound of candied orange-peel, half a pound of citron, all cut into thin narrow strips; one nutmeg grated, and a tea-spoonful of pounded caraway seeds, fifteen eggs, the yolks and whites separately beaten ; then with the hand beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar, and then the eggs gradually ; mix in the flour a little at a time, and then the sweetmeats, almonds, and spice, and lastly, stir in a glass of brandy; butter the hoop or tin pan, and pour in the cake so as nearly to fill it; smooth it over the top, and strew over it caraway comfits. Bake it in a moderate oven ; it must not be moved or turned till nearly done, as shaking it will occasion the sweetmeats to sink to the bottom. A CAKE. Take two pounds and a half of dried and sifted flour, the same of well-cleaned and dried currants, two pounds of fresh butter, two of finely-pounded and sifted loaf sugar, a nutmeg grated, a tea-spoonful of pounded cinnamon, one ounce of citron and candied orange-peel cut small, the yolks of sixteen, and the whites of ten eggs, beaten separately ; then with the hand beat the butter to a cream, and add the sugar, then the eggs by degrees, and the flour in the same w'ay, and then the currants, sweetmeats, and spice, one glass of orange- flower water, and one of brandy. Butter a tin pan, line it with white paper buttered, put in the cake, and bake it in a moderate oven four hours. ORCHE3TON CAKE. Rub into three pounds of flour one pound of butter. To the well-beaten yolks of ten, and the whites of five eggs, add three table-spoonfuls of yeast and some warm milk, and stir it into the flour ; beat it for half an hour, till of the consis- tence of a thick batter, adding more milk if it be too stiff'. Cover it over, and set it before the fire to rise, for two hours, then add one pound of stoned raisins, one pound of nicely- cleaned currants, one pound and a quarter of good brown sugar, two ounces of citron, and two ounces of candied lemon-peel cut smaU, one nutmeg grated, and a glass of