CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. S12 I.ITTLE CAKES. Beat a pound of fresh butter to a cream, and add to it one pound of pounded loaf sugar, a little pounded cinnamon and nutmeg, the grated peel of a lemon, three well-beaten eggs, one pound of currants, one pound of flour, and a little sweet wine. Work it altogether, roll it out, cut it into little cakes ; brush some sweet wine over them with a feather, sift grated sugar over them, and bake them upon tins. These cakes will keep good a year. LITTLE ALIVIOND CAKES. Beat, with a three-pronged fork, the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth. Blanch and pound with a little sugar, two ounces of sweet, and one ounce of bitter almonds ; mix them with six ounces of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and rub it through a cullender; then beat it with the eggs, and add two ounces of dried and sifted ground rice ; beat all well together, and when very light, drop it from a spoon in small round cakes upon a sheet of tin, and bake them in a slow oven. LITTLE CINNAMON AND CLOVE CAKES. To the well-beaten white of an egg, add dried, pounded, and sifted loaf sugar, till it be thick enough to cut into cakes, with small tin shapes. Flavour the beaten egg and sugar with two or three drops of essential oil of cinnamon, or of cloves, and bake the cakes upon tins in a slow oven. FLEMISH WAFERS. Put into a deep pan half a pound of flour ; strain and mix with it half a pint of warmed milk, and two table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast; work the paste till it be soft and smooth, and place it in a stove, or close to the fire, to rise; then add the beaten yolks of six eggs, half a pound of fresh butter beaten to a cream, and a lump of sugar which has been rubbed upon the peel of a lemon, and then pounded ; last of all, beat in lightly the well-whisked whites of the eggs ; again place the pan in a warm place, and it will rise to nearly double its bulk. Heat and rub the irons, which should be square, with a little butter ; fill one side with the mixture, and close them; when one side is done, turn the other, and when of a fine colour, take out the wafers; put them upon a plate, and whilst hot, sift over this quantity a quarter of a pound of grated loaf sugar.