254 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. puffs (page 255), or enclose them in rounds of puff paste. Fry, and serve them with sifted loaf sugar over them. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE APPLE FRITTERS. Four well-beaten eggs, half a pint of cream, two table- spoonfuls of yeast, three of white wine, and two of rose wa- ter; half a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, and of salt; make it into a thick batter with flour; peel and core two or three apples, cut them into thin bits, and mix them with the bat- ter ; cover it over, and let it stand, placed near the fire, about an hour; drop it into boiling lard, and serve them in a nap- kin, with sugar strew'ed over them. Gooseberries previously stewed may be done in the same way. FRENCH FRITTERS. Break three eggs into two handfuls of flour, work it well with a little milk, and half a tea-spoonful of salt, and, when well worked, add a tea-spoonful of pounded cinnamon, the grated peel of a lemon, and a little minced citron ; rub a sauce- pan with butter, put in the paste, and when it becomes firm, take it out and cut it into bits of three or four inches long, and one wide ; notch each bit at the ends ; fry, and serve them witli sifted loaf sugar over them. ALMOND FRITTERS. Blanch three quarters of a pound of sweet almonds ; pour over them three table-spoonfuls of rose water, and in a quar- ter of an hour a pint of cream ; let them stand two or three hours, then pound them in a mortar till they become quite a paste ; add the beaten yolks of six eggs, two or three pounded Naples biscuit; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, and mix all well together ; melt a quarter of a pound of fresh butter in a frying-pan, and when hot, pour in the mixture, and stir it constantly till thick, and of a light brown colour. Serve it with sifted loaf sugar over the top. CURRANT FRITTERS WITHOUT EGGS. Stir into half a pint of mild ale, as much flour as wall make it into a thick batter; add a little sugar and a few cur- rants ; boat it up quickly, and with a spoon drop it into boil- ing lard. POTATO FRITTERS. Peel, and pound in a mortar, six mealy potatoes, with a little salt, a glass of white wine, some pounded sugar, cinna-