CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 272 ARROW-ROOT CREAM. Mix a table-spoonful of arrow-root with a tea-cupful of cold water ; let it settle, and pour the water oflF. Sweeten and boil a cpiart of milk with the peel of a lemon and some cinnamon ; pick them out, and pour it boiling upon the ar- row-root, stirring it well and frequently till it be cold. Serve it in a glass or china dish, with or without grated nutmeg on the top. It may be eaten with any preserved fruit, or fruit tarts. ORANGE CREAM. Squeeze and strain the juice of eleven oranges ; sweeten it well with pounded loaf sugar ; stir it over a slow fire till the sugar be dissolved, and take off the scum as it rises : when cold, mix it with the well-beaten yolks of twelve eggs, to which a pint of cream has been added; stir it again over the fire till thick. Serve in a glass dish or custard-cups. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE ORANGE CREAM. Boil three quarters of an ounce of isinglass in half a pint of water, till half reduced; sweeten well, with pounded and sifted loaf sugar, the strained juice of four oranges and one lemon ; mix in the isinglass when nearly cold, and imme- diately stir in a pint of cream previously beaten to a froth ; stir it occasionally till it begin to stiffen, and then put it into a mould. The juice of any sort of fruit may be managed in the same way, always adding the juice of a lemon. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE ORANGE CREAM Sweeten, with pounded loaf sugar, a quart of good cream ; mix with it a small wine-glass of orange-flower water, the grated rind and the juice of a Seville orange ; whisk jt till quite thick ; soak some macaroons in white wine, and pile them in the middle of a glass or china dish, and heap the whipt cream over them as high as possible. Some hours af- ter, ornament it with slices of green citron cut into straws, and stuck into the cream. CALEDONIAN CREAM. Mince a table-spoonful of orange marmalade ; add it, with a glass of brandy, some pounded loaf sugar, and the juice of a lemon, to a quart of cream ; whisk it for half an hour, and pour it into a shape with holes in it, or put it into a small hair-sieve, with a bit of thin muslin laid into it.