PRESERVES. 329 ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE RED CURRANT JELLY. Clarify and boil, till candy high, fourteen pounds of sugar; add three pounds of nicely-picked raspberries, boil them quickly for three minutes, and then put in twelve pounds of clean-picked currants, and boil them for three or four mi- nutes, and strain it through a fine sieve. The currants may be made into a rolled pudding. ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE RED CURRANT JELLY. Gather the currants with the stalks ; put them into a tub of cold water; take them out gently, put them into a sieve, and then lay them out for half an hour upon a table-cloth. Put them into a preserving pan, adding one pint of raspber- ries to four of currants, and as much water as to prevent their burning; allow them to become quite hot, but not to boil; shake the pan to prevent the fruit adhering to the bottom or sides ; strain it through a jelly-bag. To every pint of juice allow one pound of pounded loaf sugar, and when it comes to a boil, boil it one minute. Only remove the scum when the pan is taken off the fire. Wash and prepare black currants as the red are directed to be done ; put them into a preserving pan, adding a pint of water to a quart of fruit; let it be so hot as merely to admit of its being squeezed through a thin linen cloth with the hand. To a pint of juice allow a pound of loaf sugar, and when it boils, boil it three minutes. Skim it when taken off the fire. ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE RED CURRANT JELLY. Pick the currants from the stalks; put them into a pre- serving pan ; strew a pound of pounded loaf sugar over them, and add a pint of cold water ; place them over the fire till they are heated through, which may be in half an hour ; strain them through a sieve ; to a pint of the juice allow one pound of sugar in large lumps; let it dissolve in the juice before putting it on the fire ; stir it till it boils, and let it boil quickly for ten minutes. MAGNUM BONUM PLUMS. Gather the plums with stalks; scald them in boiling water, and take off' the skins, leaving on the stalks. If not quite ripe, they will require to be simmered a few minutes over a stove , to every pound of fruit, allow one of fine loaf sugar; clarify it, and when nti^rly boiled candy high, put in