CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 820 COLD HARBOUR BALLS. Dissolve one ounce of butter in as much milk warmed as will make four pounds of flour into a stiff paste ; about two pints may be required; add half a tea-spoonful of salt, one egg beaten together with a table-spoonful of yeast; mix it all well, cover it with a cloth, and let it remain before the fire for half an hour ; then make it into small round balls, and bake them upon tins in a quick oven. RUSKS. To three pounds and a half of flour, allow half a pound of butter, the same quantity of pounded loaf sugar, and five spoonfuls of yeast; mix the flour and sugar together ; melt the butter in two pints and a half of milk, and mix it with the flour, and then add the yeast and one beaten egg; work it well together; cover it, and let it stand for five or six hours; take it out of the pan, and form it into little rolls; place them upon tins, and let them rise for about an hour ; bake them in a quick oven, and when they become brown, cut them through the middle or into three slices ; put them again into the oven to brown and crisp. MUFFINS. Make two quarts of milk rather warmer than when it comes from the cow; then, with a horn or wooden spoon, mix with it about a tea-cupful of good fresh yeast; stir flour into it till it be as thick as a batter; cover it, and let it remain to rise for an hour, then take it out by spoonfuls, and drop it amongst flour, and let it remain fifteen minutes ; take them up, flatten them a little, and bake them upon a metal plate; when one side is a little brown, turn them. When to be eaten, toast them, and with a knife cut them a little all round, then pull them open and butter them. SALLY LUNS OR BATH BREAKFAST CAKES. Rub into two pounds of flour half a pound of butter, and mix with it one pint of milk a little warmed, a quarter of a pint of fresh yeast, four well-beaten eggs, and a tea-spoonful of salt; cover it, and let it stand before the fire to rise for three quarters of an hour; make it into thick cakes about the size of the inside of a dinner plate ; bake them in a quick oven, then cut them into three, that the middle slice, as also the top and bottom, may be well buttered. Serve them hot.