403 POULTRY. able as layers or sitters. They are in their prime at three years, and decline after five. The number of hens to one cock from four to six. When a cock is moulting, it should be withdrawn, and one that is known to and familiar with the hens substituted. When a turkey-hen becomes sick, it is found beneficial to pull out the feathers of the tail. It should be a general rule to breed from young stock. A two- years-old cock, and pullets in their second year, provided they have the best food, accommodation, and attendance, may be allowed to sit so early as January. Eggs for sitting should never exceed the age of a month ; the newest laid to be preferred, and as nearly of a size as possible; those which have the circular flaw, indicating the double yolk, should be avoided. The number of eggs may be from nine to fifteen, according to the size of the fowl; an odd number should be chosen, that they may lie the closer, and they may be marked with a pen and ink, so that any new-laid ones may be re- moved. An egg being broken in the nest, it should be cleared away, and the remainder washed with warm water. It is proper to place corn and water occasionally beside the sitting hen, withdrawing them as soon as she is satisfied Hens sit twenty days. The chickens first hatched should be taken from the nest, and secured in a basket of wool or soft hay, and kept, if the weather be cold, near the fire. They will require no food for some hours, even for twenty-four. The w'hole brood being hatched, the hen is to be placed for some days under coop, upon a dry place, and, if possible, not within reach of another hen, nor near numbers of young fowls. The first food split grits, afterwards tail corn. All watery food, soaked bread, or potatoes, improper as first food; hard-boiled eggs, and curd chopped small, is much approved; their water should be pure, and often renewed. There are pans made in such forms, that the chickens may drink without getting into the water ; a basin turned down in the middle of a pan of water, will answer the end, the water running round it. They must not be let out early in the morning, or whilst the dew re- mains upon the ground, far less be suffered to range over the wet grass ; and they should be cautiously guarded against sudden changes of the weather, or exposure to rain. When the hen begins to roost, the chickens may be asso- ciated with the young poultry as nearly of their own age as possible, or put up to feed. In choosing full-sized fowls for feeding, the short-legged and early hatched always deserve a preference. There are various modes of feeding, but whe-