33 SOUPS. the sauce some very thin white roux; then cut all the softer parts, now sufficiently cold, into pieces about an inch square, add them to the sauce, and let them simmer gently till they can be easily pierced ; skim it well. Next chop a small quantity of herbs, and boil them with a little sugar in four bottles of Madeira till reduced to two ; then rub it through a tammy, mix it with the turtle sauce, and let it boil for a short time. Make some forcemeat balls ;is follows : — Cut off about a pound of meat from the fleshy part of a leg of veal free from sinews or fat; soak in milk iibout the same quantity of crumbs of bread; when quite soft, squeeze and put it into a mortar, together with the veal, a small quantity of calf’s udder, a little butter, the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, a little cayenne, salt, and spices ; pound the whole very finely, then thicken the mixture with two whole eggs and the yolk of a third ; throw a bit into boiling water, and if not sufficiently firm, add the yolk of another egg, and for variety some chopped parsley may be mixed with half of the forcemeat. Let the whole cool, so that it may be formed into balls about the size of the yolk of an egg, poach them in boiling water, and add them to the turtle. Before serving, mix a little cayenne with the juice of two or three lemons, and add it to the soup. It is generally preferable to prepare the soup the day before it is required for use, and it will be best heated in a water bath, or flat vessel containing water, which is kept always very hot, but not allowed to boil. By the same method, sauces, stews, and other made dishes, may be kept hot. When the fins of the turtle are to be served as a side dish, they must be first parboiled, then skinned, and stewed in a little turtle sauce, with some port wine, and seasoned with cayenne, salt, and a little lemon juice, and thickened with butter and flour. Fricandeaux and blanqnettes may also be made of the flesh of the turtle, in the same way as those of veal.