354 PICKLES. as to leave any of the nuts dry, more should be added, but it need not be boiled. WALNUT CATSUP. When green walnuts are fit for pickling, take a quart of the expressed juice, to which add one pint of vinegar ; let it stand four days, then mix with it two large table-spoonfuls of salt; boil it till nearly half wasted ; tie in a piece of muslin the following ingredients: — The peel of a bitter orange, a small head of garlic separated, a quarter of an ounce each of finely- beaten mace, nutmeg, and cloves ; put it into the bottom of a jar, and pour upon it the boiling liquor. Cover it closely, let it stand for a month, then strain and bottle it. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE WALNUT CATSUP. Slice a hundred full-grown walnuts without shelling them ; then beat them in a mortar, put them into a jar, with half a pound of shalots sliced, two heads of garlic, one pound of salt, and two quarts of vinegar ; let it stand a week, stirring two or three times each day. Strain, and put the liquor into a sauce-pan, with a pint of port wine, two ounces of ancho- vies, and two of black pepper, half an ounce of cloves, and the same of mace; let it boil for half an hour, skim it well, run it through a jelly-bag, and when quite cold, put it into small bottles ; cork them closely, and seal them ; keep them in a dry place. It will keep for years, and is used as a fish sauce. It may be made without the wine. MUSHROOM CATSUP. Cut off the stalks from the broad flat mushrooms ; peel, and break them into small bits ; strew salt equally over them, allowing a large table-spoonful to every quart of the pulp. Let them stand twenty-four hours ; put all into a sauce-pan, and let it boil gently for three quarters of an hour ; strain, 1 and let it stand to settle. The next day pour off the clear > part, and to every pint of the liquor add half the quantity i of port wine or old strong beer, a few blades of mace, twelve black peppercorns, and the same of allspice, a piece of gin- ger bruised, and eight cloves. Simmer it for nearly twenty minutes, pour it out, and when cold, bottle it with the spices equally divided. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE MUSHROOM CATSUP. Having cut out the stalks, and the worm-eaten parts, of the mushrooms, break them small, and strew over them some