PUDDINGS, PIES. AND TARTS. 228 ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE LEMON PUDDING Cut in half three lemons; squeeze the juice, and boil the rinds in a good deal of water ; change it twice, putting each time hot water upon them ; when quite tender, cut them into thin parings, about half an inch long ; mix them with six ounces of loaf sugar pounded, four table-spoonfuls of water, and the juice of the lemons ; bake it in a tin lined with puff paste. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE LEMON PUDDING. Beat the yolks of seven, and the whites of five eggs; grate the rind of three lemons, squeeze and strain the juice ; pound three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, and melt six ounces of butter; beat all these ingredients together for fif- teen minutes ; bake it in a dish lined with puff paste, turn it out, and serve it upon a napkin. RASPBERRY PUDDING. Mix with three ounces of raspberry jam, a gill of cream, the beaten yolks of eight eggs, some sugar, and half a pound of clarified butter ; beat all well together, and bake it in a dish lined with puff paste. A SWEET PASTY. Pare, core, and mince six apples ; blanch six ounces of sweet almonds, and cut them very small; cut finely a quarter of a pound of citron and orange-peel; cut very finely three quarters of a pound of fresh marrow ; pound a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, or use good brown sugar, and a tea- spoonfnl of cinnamon ; mix well with these ingredients a glass of brandy ; line and cover the top of the dish with puff paste, and when baked, take it out, and serve it upon a napkin. Fresh suet may be substituted for the marrow, and when there is not a sufficient quantity of the marrow, the weight may be made up with suet. Each article must be very finely minced, BREAD PUDDING. Cut two or three slices of bread rather thin, and without tl)e crust ; put them into a dish, and pour over them half a pint of boiling milk ; let it stand till cold, and then mash the bread ; lay into tlie bottom of a pudding-dish a layer of preserved gooseberries, then add the bread ; sweeten well a