PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 234 GER1«AN PUFFS. Mix very well with two large table-spoonfuls of Hour, a quarter of a pint of cream, two well-beaten eggs, half a tea- spoonful of grated nutmeg, a very little salt, and one ounce of butter beaten to a cream ; bake it in buttered cups for twenty or thirty minutes; turn them out upon a dish, and serve them instantly; pour a sweet sauce round them. ANOTHER WAY TO Dflr KE GERMAN PUFFS. Beat to a cream a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; blanch and pound one ounce of sweet almonds with a little rose water ; beat the yolks of five, and the whites of three eggs : mix all togetlier with two large table-spoonfuls of flour, and sweeten it with pounded loaf sugar; bake it in buttered cups, and serve them with a sweet sauce. IRISH PUFFS. Add to the well-beaten yolks of five, and the whites of two eggs, a large table-spoonful of flour, not quite an ounce of melted butter, and half a tea-spoonful of salt; beat it all well for ten minutes, and add half a pint of cream ; bake it in buttered tea-cups ; turn them out, and serve them with a sweet sauce. CITRON PUDDING. Mix together one pint of cream, one large spoonful of flour, four ounces of pounded loaf sugar, half a grated nutmeg, the beaten yolks of four eggs, and three ounces of citron cut Very small ; bake it in a dish lined with puff paste. RICH GROUND-RICE PUDDING. Stir into a quarter of a pound of ground rice, a pint and a half of new milk ; put it into a sauce-pan. and keep stir- ring it till it boils; then add three ounces of melted butter, the same quantity of sugar, half a grated nutmeg, and a tea- spoonful of grated lemon-peel; mix it very W'ell, and when cold, add the well-beaten yolks of four, and the white of one egg, with a glass of ratafia, and half a one of orange-flower or rose water; bake it in a dish lined with puff paste for three quarters of an hour. Before serving, strew over the top grated loaf sugar. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE GROUND-RICE PUDDING. Mix till quite smooth, with a small tea-cupful of ground