48 FISH. TO FRY SMAliXi FRESH HADDOCKS. Clean and scrape off the scales ; cut off the fins and tails, the heads may be taken off or not; wipe them dry, rub them over with the yolk of an egg beaten, and dust them with flour; fry them in boiling lard or beef dripping; when one side is of a brown colour, turn them, and when done, lay them upon the back of a sieve before the fire to drain. Garnish with fried parsley. ANOTHER WAY TO FRY HADDOCKS. When perfectly fresh, take off the heads and skins, and cut out the bones very carefully ; divide each side in two, wash them well, and lay them in a cloth to dry ; have the yolk of an egg beat up in a plate, dip the fish into it, and strew over them sifted bread crumbs, mixed with chopped parsley that has been boiled, and fry them in fresh beef drip- ping or lard ; garnish the dish with fried parsley. Haddocks dressed in this way make a nice garnish for boiled cod fish, or plain boiled haddocks. TO FRY HADDOCKS IN SAUCE. Skin and cut off' the heads of three or four haddocks ; di- vide each into four pieces, and washjthem clean. Put a large table-spoonful of butter, with two spoonfuls of flour, into a frying-pan, and brown it; mince small two onions, and put pepper and salt upon them, and add them to the browned butter, and pour in as much boiling water as will nearly cover the pieces of fish ; let it boil, put in the fish, and when one side is done, turn the other; dish it hot, and pour the sauce over it. Garnish with parsley. Omit the onions if the flavour is not liked, and substitute a table-spoonful of mushroom catsup, and one of lemon pickle. FINNAN OR ARERDEEN HADDOCKS. Clean the haddocks thoroughly, and split them ; take off tlie heads, put some salt on them, and let them lie two hours, or all night, if they are required to keep more than a week ; tlien, having hung them two or three hours in the open air to dry, smoke them in a chimney over peat or hardwood saw-dust. Where there is not a chimney suitable for the purpose, they may be done in an old cask open at both ends, into which put some saw-dust with a red-hot iron in the midst; place rods of wood across the top of the cask, tie the had-