DOMESTIC WINES, &c. 372 ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE GINGER WINE. Sixteen pounds of brown sugar, and the well-beaten whites of six eggs, are to be stirred into six gallons of water, and put on the fire to boil; the scum having well risen, it is to be taken clear off, and six ounces of the best white ginger, cut small, are to be added ; it is then to be boiled for three quarters of an hour, and well scummed; when it has become milk-warm, it is to be put into a wooden vessel, together with a tea-cupful of fresh yeast, and also the juice of six lemons, and the same of Seville oranges, made into a sirup. When it has fermented for three days, it is to be put into the cask, with two bottles of brandy or four of whisky ; the fermentation being over, it is bunged up, but not very tight at first. It may be fined in eight or ten weeks, and bottled, or allowed to stand in the cask nine or ten months. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE GINGER WINE. For a ten-gallon cask, three gallons of spirits, whisky, or rum, one gallon of the juice of Seville oranges, half a gallon of lemon juice, twenty pounds of loaf sugar, one pound and a half of best white ginger bruised, and half an ounce of isinglass, are allowed ; the cask is to be filled up with cold boiled water, and in six weeks it may be bottled. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE GINGER WINE. To ten gallons of water, fourteen pounds of brown sugar, a pound and a half of ginger, three gallons of whisky, the juice of three dozen lemons, and three dozen bitter oranges, and six rinds of each fruit, are allowed ; the sugar and water is to be boiled, stirring it frequently, and skimming it; the ginger is to be boiled separately, in a small quantity of water, and strained; the rinds are to be steeped in the spirits all night, and the boiled liquid being cold, the whole is to be put into the cask, together with two drops of isinglass. In six weeks it may be bottled. VINOUS MEAD. To one gallon of water allow three pounds of honey; boil the mixture for a quarter of an hour; skim it, and when nearly cold, pour it gently into a cask, in which crude tartar has been put in the proportion of an ounce to the gallon. As the fermentation may be long continued, a large portion of the liquid must be reserved for filling up the cask ; it is put into bottles, which are closed with muslin or coarse linen.