220 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. puff paste, and put in the mince meat; wet the edges of the paste, lay on the top, and cut it even round the edge ; mark it all round neatly with a paste cutter, and pare off the loose paste with scissors. The mince meat may be baked in a large patty-pan lined with puff paste. ANOTHER WAY TO IVEAKE MINCE PIES. Carefully stone and cut, but not too small, one pound and a half of bloom raisins ; cut small half a pound of orange- peel, mince finely half-a-dozen of middling-sized good apples, a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, pounded to a paste with a little white wine, half a nutmeg grated, a quarter of an ounce of Jamaica pepper, one head of clove, and a little cinnamon pounded ; one pound and a half of fresh beef suet, minced finely, one pound of good brown sugar ; mix all these ingredients extremely well, and add half a pint of white wine, and one glass of brandy. Pack it closely into small stone jars, and tie paper over them. When it is to be used, add a little more wine. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE MINCE PIES. Cut the root off a neat’s tongue ; rub the tongue well with salt, let it lie four days, wash it perfectly clean, and boil it till it becomes tender; skin, and when cold, chop it very finely. Mince as small as possible two pounds of fresh beef suet from the sirloin; stone and cut small two pounds of bloom raisins; clean nicely two pounds of currants, pound and sift half an ounce of mace and a quarter of an ounce of cloves ; grate a large nutmeg : mix all these ingredients tho- roughly, together with one pound and a half of good brown sugar. Pack it in jars. When it is to be used, allow, for the quantity sufficient to make twelve small mince pies, five finely-minced apples, the grated rind and juice of a large lemon, and a wine glass and a half of brandy ; put into each a few bits of citron and pre- served orange-peel. Three or four whole green lemons, preserved in good brown sugar, and cut into thin slices, may be added to the mince meat. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE MINCE PIES. Two pounds of fresh suet minced finely, two of well- cleaned currants, two of good apples minced, one pound of loaf sugar pounded, the peel of two lemons grated, and their juice; of mace, cinnamon, and cloves pounded, finely sifted,