290 CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. and with the handle of a wooden spoon make an opening in the centre of them, fill it with marmalade, and close it with some rice; roll them into a beaten egg, and strew some grated bread over them ; repeat this once or twice, and then fry them of a light brown colour. These croquettes may be fried without the marmalade. APPLES AND RICE. Scoop the pulp from some roasted apples; sweeten it with brown sugar, and add a little grated lemon-peel; wash two ounces of whole rice, and, with a stick of cinnamon, boil it in a pint of milk; when quite soft, and nearly dry, pick out the cinnamon, and mix in the well-beaten yolks of two eggs ; sweeten it with sugar, and pour it over the apples, previously put into a dish ; let it bake in a Dutch oven till it be thorough- ly heated, and brown it with a salamander. RXCE FLUianiERY. Boil in a quart of milk five ounces of sifted ground rice, half an ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and pounded with two table-spoonfuls of rose water; sweeten, and stir it till very thick, so that the bottom of the sauce-pan is seen, and then put it into a mould ; when quite cold, turn it out, stick over it sweet almonds, cut it into straws, and pour round it some thick cream, and a little white wine and sugar mixed with it. RASPBERRY FLUMMERY. Mix, with half a pint of white wine vinegar, one pound of raspberries, or one pound of preserved raspberries; let it boil for three or four minutes, stirring it constantly; strain it through a hair-sieve ; dissolve one ounce of isinglass in half a pint of water ; mix with it three quarters of a pound of pounded sugar, add it to the strained raspberries, stir it all well together ; boil, and strain it through a bit of muslin, and put it into a shape. Turn it out when cold. WHOLE RICE IN A SHAPE. Wash a large tea-cupful of rice in several waters ; put it into a sauce-pan with cold water to cover it, and when it boils, add two cupfuls of rich milk, and boil it till it become dry ; put it into a shape, and press it in well. When cold, turn it out, and serve with preserved black currants, rasp- berries, or any sort of fruit round it.