195 VEGETABLES. pints of peas, three table-spoonfuls of gravy, a bit of butter dredged with flour, some pepper and salt, and a tea-spoonful of pounded loaf sugar. Let them stew, closely covered, till the peas are soft. TO DRESS DRIED FRENCH BEANS. Boil for more than two hours, in two quarts of water, a pound of the seeds or beans of scarlet runners; fill a pint basin with onions peeled and sliced; brown them in a sauce- pan, with rather more than a quarter of a pound of fresh but- ter ; stir them constantly; strain the water from the beans, and mix them with the onions ; add a tea-spoonful of black pepper, some salt, and a little gravy. Let them stew for ten minutes, and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs, and a table-spoonful of vinegar. Serve them hot. TO DRESS CARDOONS. Choose a few heads of nice white cardoons; cut the leaves into pieces of six inches long, rejecting those that are hollow; take off their prickles, and throw the thickest pieces into boiling water; after these have boiled a little, put in the more tender leaves and the stalks. When it is ascertained, by trying a little piece in cold water, that the surface slime will come off by rubbing, take them immediately off’ the fire, and mix in as much cold water as will admit of the hands being held in it ; then rub off all the slime, and throw the cardoons into a stew-pan, with some good gravy, a little salt, and a little sugar. Boil them over a quick fire, skim them carefully, strain the sauce through a sieve, pour it over them, and serve them quite hot. SKIRRET8. Wash and scrape them, put them on in boiling water, and boil them for ten minutes ; dry them in a cullender, and fry them brown in a little butter. They are sometimes plain boiled, and a little melted butter poured over them. TRUFFLES. Put some fresh truffles into warm water ; brush and rub out all the dirt, and wash them perfectly clean ; put them into a sauce-pan full of cold water, with two or three bay leaves, a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, twelve cloves, a little allspice, salt, two or three blades of mace, and a gill of vinegar ; boil them slowly for two hours. Drain, and serve them in a napkin.