KITCHEN GARDEN. m In the first productive season, only the large shoots are taken, but in subsequent years all the shoots are gathered as they advance, till the end of the month of June. Shoots, two inches under ground, and three or four above, are the best for the table ; and, in cutting them, some of the earth is first removed, in order to avoid the succeeding buds below. An asparagus quarter should not contain less than a fall of ground, as it often takes that quantity to furnish a good dish at one time. SEA-KALE. The best mode of propagating sea-kale is by sowing it. The soil intended for it should be sandy and light, but mixed with fine rich mould ; and of all manures for this crop, drift- ware or sea-weed is the best. The ground must be trenched at least two feet deep, and in March the seed is sown, about two inches deep; they may be set in a triangular form, six inches apart, leaving a space of two feet between the tri- angles. To ensure a produce, it may be as well to drop in two or more seeds into each hole, and to thin out afterwards the superfluous plants. For the first summer, no attention will be required in the culture, except that of keeping the plants clear of weeds. In November, the whole bed is co- vered with rotten stable-litter, as is done with asparagus. During the second year, the same plan is followed. In the third year, most of the plants w ill be strong enough to be blanched for use; this is done by placing blanching covers over the plants as soon as the leaves are decayed in the end of autumn, and then covering up the whole bed with stable- dung, packing it closely between the pots, and heaping it over the tops of them to the depth of si.x inches or more. By this mode, the sea-kale will be fit for cutting in January and February. If the heat of the litter at any time decline, which may be easily ascertained by introducing a thermometer into several of the blanching pots, some new stable-dung must be mixed with it. The blanching pots, mentioned above, are made for the purpose; they have moveable covers that fit down closely, and they are nearly as wide at top as at bot- tom, in order to give room for cutting such shoots as may be ready, without breaking the others. It is necessary to have from thirty to fifty of such covers. A less expensive mode of blanching is, by covering the sea-kale beds to the depth of a foot and a half with leaves as they fall from the trees in autumn, adding, over all, a very slight layer of long stable- litter, to prevent the leaves being blown about. In this man-