67 PREPARATORY REMARKS. Heifer Beef is excellent when finely fed, and is most suit- able for small families. The bone should be taken out of a round of beef before it is salted; and it must be washed, skewered, and bound round firmly before being boiled. Salt beef should be put on with plenty of cold water, and when it boils, the scum removed. It is then kept simmering for some hours. A piece weighing fifteen pounds will require three hours and a half to boil. Carrots and turnips for gar- nishing should be put on to boil with the be ‘f. If in the least tainted, a piece of charcoal may be boiled with it. When beef is to be kept any length of time, it should be carefully wiped every day. In warm weather, wood vinegar is an excellent preservative : it is put all over the meat with a brush. To protect the meat from flies, it may be sprinkled over with pepper. Tainted meat may be restored by washing in cold water, afterwards in strong camomile tea, after which it may be sprinkled with salt, and used the following day, first washing it in cold water. Roughly-pounded charcoal, rubbed all over the meat, also restores it when tainted. In summer, meat in Scotland is frequently kept a fortnight smothered in oatmeal, and carefully wiped every day ; and if it should be a little tainted, it is so.aked for some hours before it is used, in oatmeal and water. These directions apply equally to all sorts of meat. The Sirloin is the prime joint for roasting. When to be used, it should be washed, then dried with a clean cloth, and the fat covered over with a piece of white paper tied on with thread. The spit should bo kept at all times exceedingly clean ; it must be wiped dry immediately after it is drawn from the meat, and washed and scoured every time it is used. Care should be taken to balance the roast properly upon the spit; but, if not exactly right, it is better to make it equal by fiistening on a leaden-headed skewer, than to pierce it again. The fire should be prepared by putting on plenty of coals at the back. When put down, it should be about ten inches from the fire, and gradually drawn nearer.. It is first basted with a little butter or fresli dripping, and then well