VEAL. 107 over die veal. Serve with or without forcemeat balls, and garnish with cut lemon. It will keep for a long time, in a pickle made with bran and water, a little salt, and vinegar, poured cold over it. NECK OF VEAL A LA CHREIVIE. Cut the bones short of a small breast of veal, and skewer the flank underneath, and make the neck as square as pos- sible. Lay it for two hours in oil, with chopped parsley, sliced shalots, pepper, salt, thyme, and bay leaves. Fold it in buttered paper, and fasten it upon the spit, so as to pre- serve the square form ; roast it about an hour and a quarter; take off the paper, baste it with, and pour over it, a thick veloutee sauce. NECK OF VEAL A LA BARBARIE. Trim a neck of veal neatly; lard it in chequers, with black truffles cut into nails. Stew the neck the same way as a fficandeau, putting bacon over the top, that the colour of the veal and truffles may be preserved. When done, glaze it slightly, and serve it with a sauce Italienne, with truffles. CROQUETS. Pound, in a marble mortar, cold veal and fowl, with a little suet, some chopped lemon-peel, lemon thyme, chives, and parsley. Season with nutmeg, and pepper and salt; mix all well together, and add the yolk of an egg well beaten ; roll it into balls, and dip them into an egg beaten up ; then sift bread crumbs over them, and fry them in butter. KIDNEY TOASTS. Pound, in a marble mortar, the kidney and the surround- ing fat; season with pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg ; mix with it the yolk of an e^ well beaten, lay it upon thin toasted bread, cut into square bits. Put a little butter in a dish, lay in the kidney toasts, and brown them in an oven. Serve them very hot. KIDNEY CAKES. Mix, together with a beaten egg, equal quantities of grated bread, and the fat and lean part of a cold kidney of veal, very finely minced, and seasoned with pepper and salt; form it into small cakes, fry them in boiling lard or butter, drain them upon the back of a sieve before the fire, and serve them