CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 328 hands for half an hour, but do not knead it; cover it with a warmed towel, and let it rise before the fire for half an hour; take off the surface, which soon becomes hard, and put it aside to be made into a roll; work and clap the dough, form it into rolls, place them upon tins, and let them rise for ten minutes ; bake them in a quick oven. YEAST. Beer yeast, which is the best for bread, should be strained through a hair-sieve, and two or three quarts of cold spring water poured over it; when it has stood for twenty-four hours, the water should be poured off, the yeast will then be found at the bottom of the vessel, quite thick. To preserve that which may be left over the baking, it should be put into a bottle, corked tightly, and kept in a cool place. In cold weather, it will continue good for a fortnight, but fresh yeast is always preferable. When it does not appear sufficiently strong, honey or brown sugar may be mixed with it, in the proportion of a tea-spoonful to half a pint BRAN YEAST. Boil for ten minutes, in two quarts of water, one pint of bran, and a small handful of good hops ; strain it through a sieve, and, when milk-warm, add three or four table-spoon- fuls of beer yeast, and two of brown sugar or treacle ; put it into a wooden stoup or jug ; cover it, and place it before the fire to ferment. It may be bottled, tightly corked, and kept in a cool place. POTATO YEAST. Boil some good mealy potatoes ; peel and weigh them; while hot, bruise them finely, and mix them quickly with boiling water, allowing one quart to each pound; rub it through a hair-sieve, then add honey or brown sugar, in the proportion of one ounce to each quart of water; boil it to the consistency of batter, and when nearly cold, add a large table-spoonful of good yeast to every quart of water ; cover it with a cloth to rise, and the following day it will be ready for use ; keep a bottle of it, which may be used instead of beer yeast for the next making, first pouring off the thin liquid that is on the top. It must be made with fresh beer yeast every two or three months. Double the quantity of this, as of beer yeast, is required to make bread light.