CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. 298 PLUM CAKE. Two pounds of sifted and dried flour, one pound and a half of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, two pounds of nicely- cleaned and dried currants, half a pound of stoned and chopped raisins, half a pound of sweetmeats, one nutmeg grated, the weight of it in pounded cinnamon and mace, half a pound of almonds blanched and cut small, fourteen eggs, the whites and yolks beaten separately, the yolks with three table-spoonfuls of rose or orange-flower water. These ingre- dients being prepared, with the hand beat to a cream two pounds of fresh butter; add the sugar by degrees, and then the yolks of the eggs, the whites, the flowr, the spice, the almonds, the fruit, and sweetmeats, and lastly, mix in a glass of brandy; beat it all well together; butter the hoop or frame, and pour in the cake, and put it into a moderate oven. It will take between three and four hours to bake. FROST, OR ICING, FOR CAKES. Beat till very light the whites of four eggs, and add gra- dually three quarters of a pound of double-refined sugar, pounded and sifted through a lawn sieve; mix in the juice of half a lemon ; beat it till very light and white ; place the cake before the fire, pour over it the icing, and smooth over the top and sides with the back of a spoon. POUND CAKE. Take one pound of dried and sifted flour, the same quan- tity of sifted loaf sugar, and of fresh butter washed in rose water; the well-beaten yolks of twelve, and the whites of six eggs; then with the hand beat the butter to a cream ; by degrees add the sugar, then the eggs and the flour ; beat it all well together for an hour. Bake it in a tin pan buttered, or in small ones in a quick oven. One ounce and a half of ca- raway seeds and a quarter of a pint of brandy may be added to this cake. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE POUND CAKE. Take of dried and sifted flour, sifted loaf sugar, fresh butter, cleaned and dried currants, one pound each, and twelve eggs ; then whisk the yolks and whites of the eggs separately, while another person with the hand beats the butter to a cream; and as the froth rises upon the eggs, add it to the butter, and continue so doing till it is all beaten in ; mix the flour and sugar together, and add them by degrees;