437 KITCHEN GARDEN. inches, and, at subsequent hoeings, to eight or ten inches apart. Successive sowings are made in February, Marcli, and April; and these are at once thinned out to six or eight inches apart. ASPARAGUS. Asparagus is of two kinds ; the red-topped, which pro- duces the larger shoots, and the green-topped, which are considered of the more delicate flavour. The best way of propagating asparagus is by means of seed. In the month of March it is sown in shallow drills, six inches asunder, and earthed in from half an inch to an inch deep. The young plants are kept as free of weeds as possible during the sum- mer ; and in the end of October, some litter is spread over the surface of the ground to protect them from frost. In the following spring, about April, the seedlings are trans- planted to the quarter in which they are to remain. The soil of this quarter must not be less than two and a half feet deep; it should be light, but rich ; damp ground, or a wet subsoil, would be very unsuitable; nothing is better than a sandy loam, well mixed with rotten dung, or sea-weed; and before planting a bed, it should be well trenched over to the depth of the soil, burying abundance of manure in the bot- tom. The seedling plants are cautiously raised with a narrow- pronged fork ; and when they are taken up, the roots are kept in a little earth till replanted — they being very apt to be injured by exposure to the air. A trench, about six inches deep, being prepared, the roots are carefully laid in, a foot distant from each other, the buds or crowns being kept upright, and about two inches below the surface. A foot between each ordinary trench is reckoned sufficient, but be- tween every four rows a double distance is left for an alley. In dry weather, the new-planted beds should be carefully watered. Several hoeings, generally three, are given in the course of the summer. In the end of September, the haum decays, and is cut away ; and small stable-dung or sea-weed is spread on the bed, previously stirring the surface with a fork. In spring, just before the buds begin to appear, the intervals of the beds are slightly delved over with the narrow- pronged fork, raking afterwards, with great delicacy of hand. The same practice, both for autumn and spring, is observed for the second year, it being only in the third year after planting out, or the fourth from the time of sowing, that cutting for the table is begun. In April, a few shoots may generally be cut; in May and June they will be plentiful.