321 CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. TO MAKE BREAD. To thirteen pounds of sifted flour, allow four quarts of lukewarm milk or water — in winter it must be warmer, but not scalding hot even in the coldest weather; put the milk into a wooden trough or large earthen pan; add a large table- spoonful of coarse salt; stir in a few handfuls of flour, and three quarters of a pint of beer yeast, or more if not very thick; then stir in flour till it be like a thick batter ; throw some flour on the top, and set it before the fire. If the yeast be good, the mixture will rise in ten minutes to the top of the pan ; then stir in some more flour, and replace it before the fire. When it has risen a second time, take out as much dough as will make the rolls, knead it about five minutes, form the rolls, prick them with a fork, and put them on a tin ; place them before the fire to rise for ten minutes, and bake them in a pretty quick oven. The dough for the loaves must be kneaded for twenty minutes or half an hour. Form the loaves, and put them into tin pans, which may be rather more than half filled; prick them, and place them before the fire ; when they have risen nearly to the top of the pans, they may be put into the oven and baked one hour. If a metal oven is used, it must be made moderately hot, that the bread may be well raised without being scorched. The addition of an ounce of potato, to a pound of wheaten flour, will be found a great improvement to bread. When it is to be used, moisten it with a little cold water or milk, then pour into it a portion of the water, or milk, to be used for the baking, made nearly boiling hot; add the remainder of the liquid required, which should be milk-warm; and, when the whole is a proper heat, mix with it the yeast and flour, and proceed as before directed. ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE BREAD. Mix into six pounds of sifted flour, one ounce of salt, nearly half a pint of fresh sweet yeast as it comes from the brewery, and a sufficient quantity of warmed milk to make the whole into a stiff dough; w'ork and knead it well upon a jraste-board, on which a little flour has been strewed, for fifteen or twenty minutes ; then put it into a deep pan, cover it with a warmed towel, set it before the fire, and let it rise for an hour and a half, or perhaps two hours ; cut off a piece of this spunge or dough ; knead it well for eight or ten mi- nutes, together with flour merely sufficient to keep it from adhering to the board ; put it into small tins, filling them X