287 CREAMS, CUSTARDS, Ac. TO BAKE APPLES. Pare the apples, cut them in quarters, or keep them whole ; put them into a jar, with a glass of port wine, three ounces of brown sugar, and a few cloves, to each pound of apples. Cover the jar closely, and bake them in a quick oven for an hour. ANOTHER WAY TO BAKE APPLES. Pare some good eating apples, as thinly as possible, keep- ing on the stalks; stick two or three cloves into each apple, place them in a deep dish, strew over them pounded loaf sugar, allowing five ounces to each pound of apples, and half a pint of madeira or sherry. Cover the dish closely, and bake them in a slow oven till they are quite tender. In lieu of cloves, a few bits of cinnamon may be put in with the wine. FABXZLiY IiVIffCBBON, OB ST7PPBB DISH. Wash seven or nine good-sized baking apples; put them in a sauce-pan, with cold water, and boil them till they are soft; drain the water from them, and serve them quite hot, placed upon a dish, with the stalks upwards. They are eaten with sugar. When to be eaten with cream, the apples may bo peeled before being boiled. ITALIAN CHEESE. Mix, with nearly half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, the juice of three lemons, two table-spoonfuls of white wine, and a quart of cream ; beat it with a whisk till quite thick, which may be in half an hour; put a bit of muslin into a hair-sieve, and pour in the cream. In twelve hours, turn it out, and garnish it with flowers. It may be put into a tin shape with holes in it. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE ITALIAN CHEESE. Mix, with half a bottle of sherry or teneriffe, nearly three quarters of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, the grated rind of three lemons, the strained juice of four, and a quart of cream : whisk it for fifteen or twenty minutes ; put a piece of muslin into an earthenware shape with holes in it; pour in the cream, and turn it-out the following day. DUTCH CREAIVI CHEESE. Beat the yolks of eight, and the whites of three eggs, and mix them with a pint of buttermilk ; add this to three quarts