420 BREWING. used for filling up the barrels, along with any kind of beer that is ready at hand ; it is of great consequence to keep the casks constantly filled. The fermentation ceases spontane- ously in a few days (more or less, in proportion to the heat of the atmosphere), when the casks must be bunged up. If the brewing has been properly conducted, the beer will be clear in fourteen days at farthest; if it be intended to mantle in the glass, it must be bottled off before the insensible fer- mentation in the cask has ceased, or, at all events, imme- diately when it has become bright. In warm weather par- ticularly, the casks should be occasionally examined; if a hissing noise is audible at the bung-hole, the spile may he left in loosely till the liquor has become quiet; or, which is better, check the fermentation by repeatedly mopping the cask all over with cold water. The beer being well prepared, remove it to the place w'here it is to remain for use : when placed in the cellar, the bung must be drawn, and the casks filled up quite full with fine beer, skimming off the head from time to time. After being attended in this manner for a day or two, the casks should be bunged tight, and a hole bored with a gimlet near the bung for the vent peg, which should be left rather slack for a day or two. If it be absolutely necessary to fine the beer by artificial means, it may be done by dissolving a small quantity of isinglass in stale sour beer. Beer, when once in a fit state for use, should not be again agitated. It is only requisite that the cask should be tapped at such a distance from the bottom as to allow the beer, par- ticularly if it be strong beer, to flow clear of that sediment which may have collected at the lower part of the vessel. Strong beer requires to be six weeks in the cask if the quan- tity be small; half a hogshead, three or four months, before it be bottled; keeping beer about a fortnight, and small beer a week. The best seasons for brewing are October and March. Ale and porter should be perfectly transparent before they are bottled. Let the bottles be dry, and leave them, wdien filled, open for six or eight hours; then cork them perfectly air-tight, with good sound corks. The bottles should be strait-necked, smooth, and even in the mouth, narrowing a very little about the neck where the middle of the cork comes; one inch and a half of empty space should be left between the liquor and the lower surface of the cork in the bottle.