380 DOMESTIC WINES, &c. when a quart of rum is added ; it is then strained, bottled, and tightly corked. BISHOP. Roast four good-sized bitter oranges till they are of a pale brown colour ; lay them in a tureen, and put over them half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, and three glasses of claret; place the cover on the tureen, and let stand till next day. When required for use, put the tureen into a pan of boiling water, press the oranges with a spoon, and run the juice through a sieve ; then boil the remainder of the bottle of claret, taking care that it do not burn; add it to the strained juice, and serve it warm in glasses. TURKISH SHERBET. Wash a small fore-quarter of veal, put it on the fire with nine pints of water; skim it well, and let it boil till reduced to two pints ; run it through a sieve, and when cold, add to it a pint and a half of clear lemon juice, and two pounds of loaf sugar which has been made into a sirup with a pint and a half of water, and cleared with the white of an egg. It is served in glass mugs, for a dessert table, or offered at any other time as a refreshment. BALia BEER. Eleven gallons of water and ten pounds of brown sugar are to be clarified with the whites of twelve eggs, carefully skimmed, and boiled till nearly reduced to ten gallons ; two pounds and a half of the yellow flower of lemon balm being put into a cask, the liquor, when milk-warm, is to be poured over it, and four or five table-spoonfuls of thick yeast added. The cask must be filled up morning and evening with what works over it, and bunged up when the fermentation ceases ; in a month the beer may be bottled, and in two or three months it will be fit for drinking. Half the quantity of the flower of lemon balm will probably be found to communicate a flavour sufficiently strong, if added when the fermentation is nearly over. MEDICINAI. IMPERIAX., A FAVOURITE SPRING DRINK. One ounce of cream of tartar, one ounce of Epsom salts, twelve ounces of loaf sugar, the juice of two lemons, and the peel of one — put the whole into a lar^e jug, and pour over it three pints of boiling water ; cover it till cold ; skim