431 KITCHEN GARDEN. the 20th of the August of the preceding year in beds. In September the seedlings are pricked into a dry border, near a wall, where they may be hooped over, and defended with bass mats, during the severe frosts of winter. In the month of March they are finally planted out, giving water liberally now and afterwards, should the weather be dry. They are planted in rows about two feet and a half asunder, and two feet apart in the rows ; but they must not be set deep in the ground. After this they must have repeated hoeings, and the earth must be drawn close up to the roots and stems. To diversify the time of forming heads, some of the early cauli- flowers are planted out on different successive occasions. Cauliflower will thrive the better that it have liberal sup- plies of the cleanings of the stable and cow-house BROCOLl. There are many varieties of brocoli; but the most useful kinds are the dwarf sulphur-coloured, and the kind called green brocoli. For an autumn crop, the seed is sown in April, and planted out in the beginning of June. For a spring crop in the following year, the seed is sown late in May, or even in June; the seedlings are afterwards placed in nursery-beds, where they remain till the middle or end of July, when they are finally transplanted in lines, two feet asunder, and a foot and a half apart in the lines. Water is given in dry weather ; and they are hoed and earthed up like cauliflower. The heads of winter brocoli generally appear early in January, and con- tinue till April. A light and deep, but rich soil, in an open situation, is to be preferred for them. Sea-weed is a useful manure for brocoli, and will prevent the grubs infesting its roots. KHOL-RABBI. Of thekhol-rabbi, or turnip-rooted cabbage, there are two varieties ; the one having the stem swelling above ground; the other having this turnip-like protuberance in it. This plant may be cultivated in the same manner as brocoli: it is very hardy. TURNIP. Most sorts of turnip like a sandy soil not recently ma- nured ; but the yellow Dutch turnip does best in a good soil. For a spring crop, the early Dutch is usually preferred ; it may be sown broadcast, in the month of April, mixing a little fine earth with the seed, to make it divide more equally. A