213 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. port wine, and the yolks of five hard-boiled eggs ; cover the dish with puff paste; stick into the paste four of the feet round the ornament of paste in the centre of the dish. ITALIAN FIE. Mix together some chopped thyme, parsley, and one or two sage leaves, some salt, white and cayenne pepper ; lay into the bottom of a dish some thin slices of lean veal, sprinkle them with the seasoning, and add slices of ham, and a few forcemeat balls ; put a layer of seasoned veal, and of ham and forcemeat balls, till the dish is full, and then add the yolks of five hard-boiled eggs, and some good white stock ; cover the dish with a puff paste, and bake it for an hour. Before serving, pour in, through a funnel, at the centre of the crust, a tea-cupful of rich cream. ROOK PIE. Draw and skin six or eight rooks ; let them lie in cold water one or two hours, cut out the back bones, wash the birds, season them highly with pepper and salt, and pack them closely into a pie-dish ; add half a pint of gravy or water, and lay over them half a pound of fresh butter ; cover the dish with a flour-and-water paste, and bake them for two hours. The following day, take off the coarse, and cover with puff paste, and bake it till it be sufficiently done. FIFE PIE. Skin a rabbit, cut it into bits, and let it lie for an hour in cold water; cut into small thin slices a pound of fat pickled pork; season the meat well with pepper, a little grated nut- meg, and salt. Make forcemeat balls with the liver minced, some grated bread, and chopped fat bacon; season with minced parsley, lemon thyme, grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt; bind with an egg, pack the meat and balls closely into a dish, and add a tea-cupful of good gravy, and three table- spoonfuls of white wine; cover it with a puff paste, and bake it for an hour. HAM PIE. Half boil a ham, skin it, and take out the bone ; fill the space with a rich forcemeat, and season the ham with pep- per, mace, cinnamon, and cloves, pounded and well mixed ; put it into a raised crust made of an oval shape, and lay over it a few bay leaves, and some slices of fat bacon ; close, and bake it four or five hours.