PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS 241 paper over them. The potato which has a yellow tint yields the best flower, and most abundantly in October and March. PLUM PUDDING. Take one pound of fresh beef suet, very finely minced, one pound of good raisins stoned and chopped, one pound of currants nicely cleaned and dried, one pound of flour, the grated peel of one lemon, and half a large nutmeg, six well- beaten eggs, one ounce of candied orange, and half a one of candied lemon-peel minced, half a pound of brown sugar, one glass of brandy, and a tea-cupful of cream ; mix all the ingredients well with the flour ; boil it in a cloth, put it on in a copper of boiling water, and keep it boiling for seven hours. Before serving, strew grated loaf sugar over it. Sau- ces : — Half a pint of white wine, three table-spoonfuls of water, three or four of pounded loaf sugar, and one ounce of butter, stirred till boiling hot; and plain melted butter, sweetened with sugar. Brown sugar and currant wine may be used for the sauce. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE PLUM PUDDING. One pound of the best raisins stoned, half a pound of currants well cleaned, one pound of fresh beef suet finely minced, five table-spoonfuls of grated bread, three of flour, two of brown sugar, one tea-spoonful of pounded ginger, one of cinnamon, and one of salt, six well-beaten eggs, and three wine-glasses of rum, all to be mixed thoroughly together the day before it is to be boiled. Boil it in a cloth or mould for four or five hours. Serve with melted butter or the following sauce:—Heat two or three table-spoonfuls of sweet cream, and mix it gradually with the well-beaten yolks of two eggs ; add three table-spoonfuls of white wine, brandy, or rum, and a table-spoonful of sugar; season with grated nutmeg, and stir it over the fire till quite hot, but do not allow it to boil. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE PLUM PUDDING. Half a pound of raisins stoned, the same of currants cleaned, six ounces of minced suet, three table-spoonfuls of flour, the same of grated bread, five ounces of brown sugar, eight well-beaten eggs, three cloves pounded, half a tea- spoonful of Jamaica-pepper ground, a small grated nutmeg, a little salt, and a glass of brandy ; mix it all extremely well, and boil it for three or four hours. Serve with wine and sugar sauce. Q