PRESERVES. 844 cold, put the damsons one by one into small jars, and pour over them the sirup, which must cover them. Tie them over with wet bladder. ANOTHER WAY TO PRESERVE DAMSONS. Prick them with a needle, and boil them with sugar in the same proportion as in the receipt to preserve damsons, till the sirup will jelly. Carefully take off all the scum. TO PRESERVE THE PURPLE PLUM. Put into a stone jar a layer of fruit, and one of brown sugar, allowing one pound to a pound of the fruit; cover the jar with linen or bladder, and bake it in an oven for one or two hours. In a few weeks pour off the sirup, and boil it a short time ; skim it, and when cold, pour it over the fruit. It may be eaten with cream, or made into tarts or puddir^s. TO PRESERVE CRANBERRIES. Pick and wash the cranberries ; allow to every pound two pounds of good brown sugar. Pour a little water into the preserving-pan, then put a layer of cranberries and one of sugar; boil them gently for twenty minutes, and skim them carefully. GOOSEBERRY AND RASPBERRY CAKES. Gather the gooseberries upon a dry day, and before they are quite ripe ; top and tail them ; scald them, or put them into an earthen jar; tie it closely over with bladder, and place it in a pan of water ; let it boil till the fruit is suffi- ciently tender to pulp through a sieve. To a pound of the pulp, add one pound of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and the well-beaten white of one egg; mix all together, and whisk it for three hours ; drop the cakes upon writing paper, and dry them in the sun, or upon a stove. The pulp of damsons may be done in the same way. For the raspberry cakes, allow a pound of sugar to a pint of the fruit, measured before it is scalded, or pulped through a sieve; allow one white of an egg to each pound, and for each sort of cakes dry the sugar well, and use it while it is warm. Keep them in a tin box, with folds of white paper between each layer. The whites of two eggs being added to each pound of sugar, half the beating will be found sufficient. QUINCE OAKES. Boil the quinces till quite soft: rub them through a sieve.