261 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. it into a sauce-pan, with two spoonfuls of rose water, a lit- tle cinnamon and orange-peel; stir it till it boil. Strain and sweeten it, and when cold, mix in two table-spoonfuls of orange marmalade ; beat well six eggs with a glass of brandy: mix all together ; put it in a buttered shape ; place it in a sauce-pan of boiling water, over a stove ; let it boil one hour and a quarter without a cloth or cover over it. OmELET. Beat up eight eggs extremely well; strain and season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, minced parsley, and shalot, some grated lean ham, and a little good gravy ; fry it lightly in a quarter of a pound of butter ; hold a salamander, or a hot shovel, over the top, to take off the raw appearance of the eggs ; serve with a rich thick brown gravy, or without it, if it be preferred dry. In frying the omelet, raise it frequently, as it begins to fasten, with a knife, from the bottom of tire pan, so that the butter may get under it. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE OMELET. Beat eight eggs till they are very light; add a tea-cupful of rich cream, two middling-sized onions pounded, and some boiled parsley minced, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a little pepper ; mix all well together, and fry it of a light brown, in three or four ounces of butter; before serving, let it stand a few minutes before the fire. If onions are disliked, finely- minced sweet herbs may be substituted. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE OMELET. Beard and parboil twelve or sixteen oysters, seasoning them with a few white peppercorns ; strain and chop them ; beat well six eggs ; parboil and mince a little parsley: mix all together, and season with a little nutmeg, salt, and a table- spoonful of mushroom catsup ; fry it lightly in three ounces of butter, and hold it for a minute or two before the fire. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE OMELET. Beat well and strain six eggs ; add them to three ounces of butter made hot; mix in some grated ham, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, some chopped chives and parsley. Fry it of a light brown colour. — Salt herring gritted and minced may be sub- stituted for the ham. OMELET WITH KIDNEY OF VEAL. To eight well-beaten eggs, add a little salt, and part of a