APPENDIX—No. III. 478 week, but will improve by keeping. A few bniised kernels of fruit-stones are a great improvement. VICTORIA PIE. Fill your pie-dish with equal quantities of apples and mag- num bonum plums, a little lemon juice and spice, sugar to taste. Cover with a thin light paste. This will be found excellent.— N.B. A little orange marmalade will do instead of lemon. APPLE PUDDING FOR SIX OR SEVEN PERSONS. Put ten ounces of flour into a basin, and mix w'ell with it half a pound of sugar, a small tea-spoonful of salt, a little pounded cinnamon, then add half a pound of finely minced suet, and eigh- teen ounces of minced apples. Mix the whole well, and after it has stood an hour or so, it will be found that the juice from the apples and sugar will have wetted the flour sufficiently. Put plenty of flour on the cloth before tying up the pudding, to make it turn out well. Boil for three hours in plenty of water. PRINCE OF WALES CAKE. Rub well into three-quarters of a pound of flour, a quarter pound of butter; then mix the following ingredients,—quarter pound loaf sugar finely grated, quarter pound nicely cleaned currants, the rind and juice of a lemon, half a tea-spoonful carbonate soda, two eggs well beaten, a small glass of gin, and a very little milk. ALBERT PUDDING. One pound each of butter, sugar, and flour, quarter pound raisins, beat all well together, boil and serve with wine sauce. TO BOIL A PHEASANT. Take a hen pheasant, draw and stuff with oysters. Lard with a pin, or envelope in thin slices of bacon, which again envelope in beef steaks and a paste made of flour and water. Boil in a basin for four hours. Serve ; cut through the crust, and take out the pheasant, and help in the usual way.—N.B. The beef steak is not eaten. KENTUCKY SAUCE. Take one table-spoonful of flour, and same quantity of butter, mix them together, but not too much. Into a sauce-pan put a large breakfast cup of plaiu good gravy soup, one table-spoonful each of mushroom ketchup, vinegar, sherry, and anchovy sauce, some mace, and a few black and white pepper corns. Mix all these ingi’edicnts till they come to boil, then add the following, stirring the whole well:—the yolk of an egg mixed with a large cupful of good cream, and a little nutmeg. Boil the whole, stirring constantly until the raw taste disappears.—N.B. This is an excellent sauce for boiled fowls or tm'key.