BEEF. liasted with its own fat all the time it is roasting. Ten minutes before serving, it should be sprinkled with a little Sfilt, then dredged with flour, and basted till it is frothed. When it is drawn from the spit, some gravy will run out, to which may be added a little boiling salt and w'ater poured along the bone : the beef is then garnished with plenty of flnely-scraped horse-radish. A sirloin, weighing about fifteen pounds, should be roasted for three hours and a half. A thinner piece of the same weight requires only three hours. In cold weather, meat requires longer roasting than in warm, and if newly killed than if it has been kept. TO STEW A RUMP OP BEEF. Tie up the beef, and put it on to stew w’ith nearly a much cold water as will cover it; add three pounds of fat bacon cut into slices, a handful of thyme, eight onions, four small carrots, two turnips, two or three bay leaves, some black pepper, a little allspice, mace, and three cloves, a pint of port w'ine, and one of sherry. Let it stew' gently between seven and eight hours. Take out the beef, strain the liquor, and skim off all the fat; thicken it with a little flour rubbed down in cold water, boil it up, and pour it over the beef. Have ready carrots and turnips, cut according to fancy, and boiled tender in weak gravy, and put them round the beef before serving. O ANOTHER WAY TO STEW A RUMP OF BEEF. Bind the beef tightly, stick into it four cloves, and put it into a sauce-pan with three quarts of water, a quarter of an ounce of black pepper half beaten, some salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, and three anchovies; turn it often, and when half done take it out, pour off the liquor; put in the beef again, with a pint of port wine and half a pint of table-beer rnade scalding hot, and some of the liquor strained; stew it till tender, clear off the fat, and if the sauce is not strong enough, add well-seasoned beef gravy ; thicken it with flour rubbed down in a little cold water. Dish the beef, and pour the gravy round it.