CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 294 an earthen mould, set it in a cold place for some hours, and turn it out. Any other sort of preserve may be used, and if made with only orange or lemon juice, sweeten it with sugar, or make it with orange jelly which may have been left the day before. ANOTHER LEMON SPUNGE. Boil an ounce of isinglass in a pint and a half of water, and when it is half wasted, strain it, and let it stand till quite cold; then mix with it the juice of three lemons, the whites of three eggs, and pounded sugar to sweeten it. Whisk it about twenty minutes, when it may be put into a shape ; and if required, will be ready to be turned out in an hour or two. The white of one egg only may be used. RASPBERRY SPUNGE. Dissolve in a little water three quarters of an ounce of isinglass ; add to it three quarters of a pint of cream, and the same proportion of new milk, nearly half a pint of raspberry jelly, and the juice of a lemon. Whisk it well one way till it becomes thick, and looks like spunge, then put it into an earthenware mould, and turn it out the next day. CAHE SANDWICHES. Cut a spunge cake, a few days old, as for bread sand- wiches, and spread strawberry jam or currant jelly over them. A TRIFLE. Add to a pint of rich cream a tea-cupful of white wine sweetened with pounded loaf sugar; whisk it well, and as the froth rises, lay it upon a sieve placed over a deep dish ; as it drains, pour the cream into the pan in which it is wdiisked till all is done ; dip some spunge biscuit, ratafia cakes, or Savoy biscuit, into sweet wine and a little brandy; pour over them a rich boiled custard, and when quite cold, lay on the whipt cream, piled as high as possible. Coloured comfits may be strewed over the top. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE TRIFLE. Mix three table-spoonfuls of white wine, and one of sugar, with a pint and a half of thick cream; whisk it, and take off as much froth as will heap upon the dish, into which lay some pieces of spunge cake, or some spunge biscuit, soaked with sweet wine, and covered with preserved strawberries, or any other fruit; pile the froth upon this, and pour the