THE DAIRY. 409 them easy, clean, and well aired; when they are turned out to pasture, they must not be over-driven, or have so far to travel as to induce fatigue. Their food in winter may be of two kinds, either dry or green; of dry food, hay and straw are almost the only kinds used; the most profitable kinds of green food are parsnips, carrots, cabbages, and turnips ; from one to two hundred pounds a-day of cabbages or turnips will be consumed by a middle-sized cow. By means of stall- feeding, with green crops, a cow can be kept in milk not onl5 for a month longer in autumn than by the common modes, but even through the whole winter season. When green succulent food cannot be procured, it will be judicious to give them their preserved fodder either boiled, or steeped in warm water. It is found to be beneficial to them to vary their food from time to time, and for a few weeks before calving, they should have every night a little hay, or a somewhat greater allowance of green food. On the day of calving, they should be kept in; and imme- diately after, it is useful to give them a handfiil or two of meal, mixed with hike-warm water. For a fortnight after calving, they should have, with their green food, a little hay, or chopped straw, with some ground or crushed oats. This food ought to be put into their stalls in small quantities at a time, and a little salt given with it improves the quality, and increases the quantity of milk. The land necessary to main- tain a cow, may, at an average, be stated from two to three English acres, if there be taken into account, the corn, hay, straw, and every thing else the animal consumes. One dairy-maid may manage a dozen or fifteen cows, having assistance in the milking of them. Cows should be milked in the house rather than in the field; three times a-day, at least, in summer: early in the morning, at noon, and Just before nightfall. It is of the utmost consequence, that the whole milk secreted be at each milking drawn away. It may be laid down as a pretty general rule, that eighteen pounds of milk will yield one pound of butter, and that this is the produce of a single cow per day; some, however, will furnish twice or even thrice this quantity. The best age for a milk cow is betwixt four and ten. When old, she will give more milk, but of an inferior quality. OF THE PREVENTION AND CURE OF DISEASES INCIDENT TO BLACK CATTLE. Regular watering, as well as sound food, prevents many diseases; and cattle ought to be carefully kept from smelling carrion, or chewing bones.