167 GRAVIES, SAUCES, &c. WHITE SAUCE. Thicken half a pint of cream with a little flour and butter, four shalots minced, a little mace and lemon-peel; let it boil, and a little before serving, add a spoonful of white wine, the well-beaten yolk of an egg, the squeeze of a lemon, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy-liquor. This sauce will answer for boiled fowls, or for a fricassee. UVER SAUCE. Wash the liver of a fowl perfectly clean, and boil it four minutes in a little water; bruise it, and rub it through a sieve, with a part of the water in which it was boiled. Dust about two ounces of butter with flour; add a table-spoonful of cream, and melt it, shaking it round one way ; when quite hot, put in the liver, a little pepper, salt, and grated lemon- peel and nutmeg; heat it thoroughly, and pour it round the fowl. Serve parsley and butter in a sauce-tureen. QUIN’S SAUCE. Half a pint of mushroom pickle, the same of walnut pickle, three whole and three pounded cloves of garlic, six anchovies bruised, and a tea-spoonful of cayenne. Mix all together in a large bottle, shake it daily for three weeks, then strain, and bottle it for use. ANOTHER QUIN'S SAUCE. One pint of port wine, one of mushroom catsup, one of walnut liquor, one of essence of anchovies, and a tea- spoonful of cayenne ; mix all together, and boil it for a quar- ter of an hour. If essence of anchovies is not to be had, boil half a pound of anchovies in a quart of water till reduced to a pint. Strain, and use it. MELTED BUTTER. Dust a little flour over a quarter of a pound of butter; put it into a sauce-pan, with about a wine-glass of water; stir it one way constantly till it be melted, and let it just boil: A round wooden stick, called in Scotland a thevil, is the best thing to stir butter with in melting. If the butter is to be melted with cream, use the same proportion as of water, but no flour; stir it constantly, and heat it thoroughly, but do not let it boil. To oil butter, cut about a quarter of a pound into slices, put it into a small jar, and place it in a pan of boiling water When oiled, pour it off clear from the sediment.