CREAMS, CUSTARDS, &c. 288 of boiling milk just from the cow ; let it boil up once, take it off the fire, cover it, and let it stand a little that the curd may form; then put it into a small hair-sieve, and press it with a weight for twenty-four hoTirs, when it may be turned out. It is eaten with cream and sugar. SNOW CHEESE. Sweeten, with pounded loaf sugar, a quart of thick cream ; add the strained juice of three lemons, and one ounce and a half of blanched sweet almonds pounded, with two table- spoonfuls of rose water, and one of ratafia. Beat it with a whisk till thick, and put it into a shape or sieve, with a bit of muslin laid into it, and in twelve hours turn it out. CIJVRET PUFFS. Mix together, and sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, a pint of claret, and rather more than one of rich cream ; let it stand a night, and then whisk it to a froth, which take off as it rises, and put upon the back of a sieve to drain; heap it upon a dish, sweeten some rich cream, and pour it round the froth to make it float. FAIRY BUTTER. Wash a quarter of a pound of fresh butter in orange-flower water, and beat it with the pounded yolks of five or six hard- boiled eggs ; blanch, and pound to a paste, with a little orange- flower water two ounces of sweet almonds; add a little grated lemon-peel, and pounded and sifted loaf sugar; mix all toge- ther, and with a wooden spoon, work it through a stone cul- lender. Soak some Naples biscuit in white wine, and put over them the fairy butter, in heaps as high as it can be raised. WHIIVI WHAM. Sweeten a quart of cream, and mix with it a tea-cupful of white wine, and the grated peel of a lemon; whisk it to a froth, which drain upon the back of a sieve, and put part into a deep glass dish ; cut some Naples biscuit as thin as possible, and put a layer lightly over the froth, and one of red currant jelly, then a layer of the froth, and one of the biscuit and jelly ; finish with the froth, and pour the re- mainder of the cream into the dish, and garnish with citron and candied orange-peel cut into straws. DEVONSHIRE JUNKET. Turn some new milk, as for cheesecakes, in a wide shal-